1 (0s):
Today is my

2 (5s):
remember the pandemic with all the news about protests and police reform and racial Justice. You may have forgotten about it a bit but it has not forgotten about you the United States of America just hit another Grim Milestone 2 million confirmed cases of covid-19. And as the old song goes

1 (25s):
that's an undercount. It's really

2 (28s):
important to remember that even as summer arrives in people are at the beach and families are getting together again. We lost 1300 countrymen to covid-19 on Tuesday alone and a bunch of states are seeing their biggest yet spikes in new cases right now on today's show. We're going to try and make sense of the latest numbers and what they mean and how to keep ourselves safe while the entire country moves on box Healthcare reporter. Dylan Scott is here to help Dylan. Let's start with the spikes where we seeing the biggest spikes in covid cases, right?

1 (1m 0s):
So I asked a bunch of Public Health experts yesterday, which states they're most worried about and a lot of them had pretty much the same list. It was Arizona North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas, Utah, Arkansas, Florida and Tennessee. Those are the states that have some of the most troubling patterns in their covid-19 outbreaks right now

2 (1m 21s):
and are these states that are like seeing a first surge or is this like a second surge or what

1 (1m 27s):
I think in most of these places, this is really a first sir. You know, obviously when the coronavirus first arrived in the u.s. It was concentrated in New York and New Jersey Connecticut. Obviously popped up in Washington and California. Those were the places that endured, you know, the worst of the first wave here in the United States and because we went into social distancing back in mid-march a lot of the rest of the country, you know had a much slower progression in their covid-19 outbreaks, but what's concerning is now We started to he's social distancing in some of these places. Now that businesses are starting to open back up and people are starting to go about their daily lives in a little more normal way again.

1 (2m 11s):
These are the places where hospitalizations are going up. And even though we're testing a lot more the rate at which those tests are coming back positive is increasing which suggests to health experts that it's not just that we're testing more and picking up on more cases. It's that the virus is actually spreading. Further again in these

2 (2m 32s):
states just plain old-fashioned Community spread

1 (2m 35s):
good old fashioned Community spread

2 (2m 37s):
exactly. So tell us how much we really know about what's going on in Arizona, Arkansas the Carolinas, Florida, Utah, Texas in Tennessee, what are the details? So the

1 (2m 49s):
common feature of almost all of those states that I listed the top is that their hospitalizations are going up and they're positive test rates are going up. So in Arizona just to give one example back. On May 16th, when they lifted their stay-at-home order they had about 800 people in the hospital because of covid-19 currently as of just a couple days ago. They now have nearly 1,300 of people in the hospital because of covid-19. And so that is a meaningful increase in how many people are developing serious covid-19 cases and that suggests that the outbreak is really starting to spread again. The same is true of their positive test rate, even though there were there like everywhere else the testing capacity is Up.

1 (3m 31s):
The positive test rate is also increasing at the same time a couple of weeks ago. It was about 8% and now it's about 13% So all of those things combined to give, you know experts the impression that the outbreak is actually starting to spread again and it's it's difficult to ignore the fact that this is coming a couple of weeks after State started to reopen which is about when we would expect, you know, any change in the outbreak from that change in policy to reveal itself. Elf

2 (4m 0s):
how are these states equipped to deal with this do they have sufficient testing supplies? Do they have sufficient PPE do they have sufficient ICU

1 (4m 12s):
beds? So I think the last one Hospital capacity is the thing that people are most worried about the biggest hospital system in Arizona sent out a tweet earlier this week saying they were concerned about how many of their beds are taken up with covid-19 patients and particularly how many ICU units they Available to handle a surge in covid-19 cases because again this this takes a while to reveal itself. So like right now we're seeing the positive test rate go up about 30% of ICU beds are available, but if spread is continuing and if more people are getting infected, you know, eventually some of those people are going to need to go to the hospital and that 30% Hospital capacity can disappear pretty quickly.

1 (4m 56s):
And so the State Health Department in Arizona has urged hospitals to start activating their emergency plans, you know, whatever they can do to increase the more capacity now is the time to do it because if spread is underway again, you're going to soon have more hospitalizations, and there's not necessarily a ton of capacity right now, you know, and another thing that's complicating. This is as part of reopening hospitals are starting to do elective surgeries again, they've started to resume business as normal just like everybody else and I was talking to somebody in, Tennessee. Who said that one of the reasons he was worried is not just because covid-19 hospitalizations are increasing but because their hospitals have also kind of gone back up to their normal capacity setting aside the coronavirus and so any any little spikes in covid-19 cases and the accompanying increase in hospitalizations can be really problematic for these hospitals if they've already started to bring in all their usual patients as well.

1 (5m 57s):
And so I don't think any of these places are at a crisis. Mode quite yet based on the conversations I've had with folks but the signs are worrying. They're already starting to see an increase in cases. You would expect the surge in hospitalizations to come soon after that. And so at the time to prepare for that is now rather than when it's too late

2 (6m 17s):
and at the same time there's a protest movement coursing its way through this entire country right now. When are we going to see the results of that?

1 (6m 26s):
That's good question. I think everybody's waiting with bated breath to see Any changes in the trends from the protest? You know, I gave the example of what it's been like a month give or take since a lot of these states lifted their stay-at-home orders or started reopening businesses, and we're probably just now really starting to see the effect of those policy changes. So I think the same will end up being true of the protest, you know, they really started picking up about two weeks ago, you know, we would probably just now be on the front end of any new trends in covid-19 because of the Just starting to reveal themselves. I know I saw yesterday that at least so far there hasn't been any noticeable uptick in Minneapolis.

1 (7m 9s):
But I think a lot of the cities where we had substantial protests because of the George Floyd killing will be watch closely and and it'll be here over these next couple weeks where you know, if there are new outbreaks because the protest we're going to find out Something that's important to keep in mind is that it is probably safe to say that it's too early for us to be seeing an effect of the protests and that's why I think experts are more looking at both the policy changes lifting stay-at-home orders as well as the attitudinal changes people just starting to act a little more freely. You know, we're a couple weeks out from Memorial Day when it's a lot of people might have decided to venture out for the first time.

1 (7m 50s):
And so this seems to be right now a story about what happens when we start to reopen. Find out here in the next week or two what happened as a result of the protest

2 (8m 4s):
more with Dylan after a quick break. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today explained. So you finally come up with your great big idea and

1 (8m 24s):
created a product that's guaranteed to shake up the tech industry. But how do you actually get it out into the world? And how do you hire a sales person to lead the charge when you've never worked in sales in your life to find out you have to subscribe to zero to IPO a podcast from OCTA this week zero to IPO host Frederick caressed and Joshua Davis team up with CEO and founder of black line Therese Tucker to share advice. On all things sales and one sometimes it pays to take a few risks subscribe to zero type EO now to hear this episode and catch up on season

2 (8m 58s):
one. Dylan you mentioned these states that are seeing these big surges right now Arizona Arkansas the Carolinas, Florida, Texas, Tennessee, Utah. These are states that are seeing big first surges. It's not a second surge or so-called second wave. How exactly do we determine when it's a second wave for the country though?

1 (9m 23s):
What's tricky about? This is that like every place every city. Every state is going through its own coronavirus outbreak like sure they're interconnected. People travel from one place to another but like the outbreak in New York City is on a completely different timeline that completely different trajectory than the outbreak in Phoenix or Salt Lake City or Little Rock and so as much as I know people have come to think about things in terms of waves. It's important to remember that we have a bunch of discrete different waves ebbing and flowing all the time and we can see that right now, you know these days the cases and deaths in New York City have been on a anshel decline for quite a while.

1 (10m 4s):
Now, you know, they've seen the worst of the coronavirus whereas somewhere like Arizona that wasn't hit as hard. The first time is now to your point seeing for the first time a big surgeon cases as the lockdown starts to get lifted. The virus hasn't gone away covid-19 is going to spread people are going to get sick and some people are going to die and it becomes a decision for politics and for society to figure out how much new covid-19 spread is. The economic reopening what will be concerning is if we see a place like New York or Seattle or some of these places that have already endured a first wave if they start to see a big surge as they start their reopening process.

1 (10m 47s):
That's when we're going to know that a second wave is really under way.

2 (10m 50s):
And of course both of those cities have seen huge protests take over their streets with tear gas and coughing and sneezing right amongst cops and protesters are Like yeah,

1 (11m 3s):
so if we start to see increases there it's going to be a lot easier to say. Well this is a result of the protests as opposed to places like Arizona and North Carolina and Florida. We're reopening has already been underway for a couple weeks. And so, you know, if anything the protest might accelerate trends that were already underway as a result of reopening. This is kind of the new reality for all of us, you know, any resumption of normal activity before a vaccine is online or before we have a date. Really effective treatment means a risk of more

2 (11m 36s):
spreading it already seemed like President Trump was sort of done talking about covid-19 and wanted to reopen the country. But how have these protests changed the politics of covid-19? I mean is there still as much serious attention being paid to this crisis at the federal level?

1 (11m 53s):
That's a great question. And I think I mean, I think it's evident that the White House is is not at least publicly talking about the coronavirus nearly as much as as they were before, you know, our daily briefings are now a thing of the past. If you look at the president's Twitter feed it certainly doesn't seem to be the first thing at the top of his mind on any given day. The next coronavirus stimulus relief package seems to be stuck for the time being and there is isn't doesn't seem to be nearly as much urgency about getting that done on top of that. It's really complicated to try to understand what's happening with any given States coronavirus outbreak a I noticed as I was looking into each one of these places is that the political leaders would usually say like well yes cases are going up hospitalizations are going up but that's not because of reopening as you see an increase in testing.

1 (12m 47s):
We've been consistent in saying you will see an increase in cases. The virus is widespread. It's in every County and every state in our nation and that's why this metric that I've mentioned before about Positive test rates is so important because that is not a reflection of just more testing Its Reflection of more spread and the fact that the political leaders in these states don't seem to be taking that Trend and why it's a worrisome. Seriously, I think is a real cause for concern and the more are we let our attention drift away from it. The more we are really just laying the seeds for the virus to come back in a big way.

2 (13m 29s):
So I take your point that this isn't a second. For the country because we have you know, 50 different approaches and 50 different waves. But what can the United States learn from other countries who maybe had one big wave and then you know one sort of uniform second wave. So I think there are a couple things one is it is

1 (13m 49s):
important even if for relaxing lockdowns people need to take precautions on their own if you're going out in public wear a mask, if you're going to see people try to see people outside just because the lockdown is over doesn't mean that social distancing should be over another and maybe the most concerning thing for the u.s. A lot of these other places, especially like South Korea have instituted really robust contact tracing programs. If somebody gets sick, they interview that person find out everybody that they've been in contact with they get in touch with those people and tell them about their exposure and ask them to isolate themselves. It's a really good way to try to clamp down on new.

1 (14m 33s):
But here in the US we haven't put nearly as much money behind contact tracing is experts think we should these apps that Apple and Google have tried to facilitate through their Bluetooth technology. Most states aren't even making them there hasn't been a ton of uptake in the states that have and even if they did most Americans have said they don't want to use that kind of app and so that limits our ability to like Leverage technology to make contact tracing easier which were then means we need to rely more on traditional. I'll contact tracing which is like an individual person gets hired by the government. They do interviews with people who have tested positive for covid-19 get in touch with all the people who have been in contact with but even that like we don't have enough people to do it.

1 (15m 17s):
We don't have enough money to hire people and to train people to do it. And so I do think there's this sort of almost scary bit of fatalism that the United States seems to be adopting towards covid, which is just like we've locked down for a couple months. We did what we could and now Just gonna kind of move on and accept it.

2 (15m 42s):
Yeah, it sounds like we've gone from We're All in This Together two very much. So being at the point where it's like you're on your own kid. Good luck. Yeah

1 (15m 52s):
something that's important to keep in mind is even though the government's might be relaxing their policies. I do think there's a lot of evidence in public opinion surveys and that kind of thing. If that individual Americans do still take the coronavirus threat, seriously, they are going to be cautious about going to restaurants seeing their friends and hopefully a lot of us will still be willing to take the very easy precautions that we know from science do a lot to Tamp down on Transmissions. There is a lot that's within each of our individual power to do to try to keep the coronavirus under control. No matter how the government policies have changed.

2 (16m 54s):
another County