1 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from who we are a new podcast by Ben & Jerry's produced by box creative. They creatively make ads and

3 (9s):
now they're creatively making a

1 (10s):
podcast for you. It's hosted by ACLU legal director, Jeffrey Robinson and Peabody award-winning journalist Carvel Wallace each week. They try to understand how we got here is a country and how we can all move towards a better future who we are Launches on September 15th and airs every Tuesday listen and Subscribe, wherever you do, those things Google's free tools are designed to help millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working. And right. Now these businesses could use our help support. The place is near you by booking an appointment buying a gift card reading review more ordering takeout all With a Little Help from Google.

1 (1m 1s):
Let's go back to March for a minute. The country is discovering. This coronavirus thing isn't just going to be a flash in the pan. It's going to change our lives and the stock market starts to react.

2 (1m 12s):
We are looking at another day of extreme volatility and this week alone stocks have now wiped out nearly. Half trillion dollars in value Wall Street is about to close any minute. Now the Dow collapsing around 1,900 points today. Its worst single day loss ever stocks move back to low to the day toward the close as President. Trump said coronavirus may be an issue through July or August now the stock market like

1 (1m 49s):
every other part of American Life took a turn for the worse, but then a few weeks later the stock market started to reverse those losses. And things started to get good the

2 (1m 59s):
markets closed lower Friday, but all three major indexes posted double-digit gains last month

1 (2m 4s):
and things started to get really

2 (2m 6s):
good Wall Street continued its upward climb to record Heights Friday with Technologies outsized performance leading the

1 (2m 14s):
way and things have gotten to the point where for at least some people out there the stock market's never been better

2 (2m 21s):
Apple above 460 777 making it a two trillion dollar market cap. What a week for Tesla Shares are up a staggering 26 percent this week. Jeff Bezos just yesterday made 13

1 (2m 37s):
billion dollars, but a lot of people seem to be confused. We've had listeners right to us asking businesses all over my city are shutting down. The economy is a mess. Why's the stock market surging and of course on the day we decide to make an episode about the stock market appears to be taking a dip, but the trend is certainly upwards and that's a trend Emily Stewart has been writing about for Vox

3 (3m 7s):
your Facebook Apple Amazon Microsoft and Google which parent company for that is alphabet. They've all Doing spectacular this year and then the major stock indexes easier Trump talked about the Dow Jones Industrial Average a lot. And the Dow is above 28,000. That's a big number. I'm thinking that when Trump became president. I remember sitting at my old job in my old office joking about when the Dow was going to pass 20,000 and now we're 28,000. The stock market is really really going

1 (3m 41s):
up. But why I know my dude Kyra's doll with I'd say the

3 (3m 46s):
stock market is not the economy. And I think we're really seeing this great

1 (3m 51s):
disconnect.

3 (3m 56s):
We never know exactly what Market does what it does but there are a few things that have happened in one thing that happened back in March is that the Federal Reserve the central bank for the United States took some really big measures that really propped up markets

2 (4m 11s):
and the Federal Reserve is cutting interest rates today amid fears about the

1 (4m 15s):
Roto

3 (4m 15s):
virus outbreak started buying a bunch of

2 (4m 18s):
Securities the FED first of all saying that it will purchase treasuries and mortgage-backed securities quote in the amount

1 (4m 25s):
needed call that open-ended

3 (4m 27s):
QE and way that really put some money in some liquidity into the market and really kind of shaved off what could have been a financial meltdown at the same time. Like I said before tech stocks have done really really well and big tech stocks. And so when you look at something like the S&P 500 Jared is you got rid of the big tech stocks this death and people wouldn't be doing that great. You know, some people will tell you that the stock market right now is doing well because it's supposed to be a leading indicator, which means the stock market is supposed to start to move before the economy. And so if you think the stock market is doing well now because the economy is going to do well in the future then this makes sense to you do I think that the economy Martin remarkably and six months three months is gonna Doing awesome.

3 (5m 15s):
No, but like that's sort of the take that we're having right now at least from some Corners. It's a the stock market's indicating that the economy is going to get along

1 (5m 25s):
better. Okay, so tech stocks have been sort of leading the charge because tech companies have been doing really well during the pandemic investors have confidence in the future of this country. The interest rates are super low and the FED is buying a bunch of bonds. You've mentioned Donald Trump a few times. How much credit does the president really deserve

3 (5m 49s):
here? Donald Trump when when the stock market is doing well would like you to think that it is all attributable to him in the stock market is not doing well. It has nothing to do with him, but he really has tied his The to the stock market,

2 (6m 4s):
it's always nice to begin by saying the stock market is up again. We just set another record. We have another big record stock market day another record in the stock market in the history of our country. Which to me Means Jobs. We just hit the highest number in the history of the stock market

3 (6m 20s):
how much of it has to do with him? Like I mean, some of it does Trump has had very market-friendly policies back in 2017. He signed that Giant tax cut bill that was really great for rich people and for corporations. He has been good for the stock market now has he been the only reason the stocks are doing anything, of course not like part of it is yes politics part of it is market-friendly policies, but it's also the day-to-day headlines, like apple has really good earnings. That's good for the company, like ultimately stuff friends. They're supposed to be tied to Future expectations of earnings for a company.

3 (7m 2s):
So smooth for a variety of reasons Trump has given investors reason to be confident but he's not the only reason that the market moves in any given

1 (7m 11s):
moment. We've been hearing President Trump take credit for the stock market for like four years, but strangely at the Republican National Convention. It didn't seem to be one of his biggest talking points.

3 (7m 22s):
I'm going into the convention. I assumed they're going to try and find a way to get the Dow personified on stage and then it just wasn't really there he we talked about it on Monday after the roll call for a little bit and then during his acceptance speech for the nomination. He kind of name-checked the market and then moved on

2 (7m 42s):
take a look at what's happening with the markets take a look at your 401k as which you probably do every hour. Take a look at your stocks were very close to breaking the record and NASDAQ has already done it. You know NASDAQ has broken the record. I think 16 times already

3 (8m 1s):
if I had to take a guess. It's not quite the vision that Republicans wanted of their party whether or not it's actually what they value when you watch the Republican convention. It seems like what they wanted to talk about more was how Donald Trump is Not racist also crime is on the rise. Like it just wasn't high on the agenda.

1 (8m 24s):
Right we touched on this in our RNC recap episode last Friday. Clearly the game plan was to try and chip away at black voters and women who are inclined to vote for Biden are those black voters and women not day trading though. How many Americans are invested in the stock market?

3 (8m 42s):
Well, I mean, yeah, I like if you look at the statistic small majority of Americans Have money in the stock market now does that mean they have a giant stock portfolio at their day trading? No, but a lot of people do have money in a 401K pension things like that and there are a lot of ordinary people who are investing in stocks right now. I mean with apps like Robin Hood which right now is kind of the hot a poor all of these day Traders are flocking to a lot of people also have been really bored in quarantine and have been playing in the market in investing and you know, there's an argument that the It should not only be for the wealthy that that Ordinary People should be accessing and should have the opportunity to access that understanding what the risk is.

3 (9m 27s):
So like yes, there is a benefit for a lot of people but like there's a difference between my Apple stock went up and like hey, I don't have a paycheck in the long-term. The economy will improve I think what's happening right now is Mark and seems to indicate that That the economy is going to prove pretty quickly. I would argue that part of that is an assumption that Congress will do more in terms of fiscal stimulus a follow-up to the cares act that President Trump signed into law back in March. That's a pretty big assumption, but maybe the market will be right.

1 (10m 14s):
After the break all those people who can't afford to play the market because they're unemployed and living benefit check to benefit check. Where is that stimulus? I'm Sean Rama's firm. It's today explained. Support for the show today comes from made to fail a broken unemployment system in Florida crowded elections in Wisconsin during a global pandemic rampant political corruption and Georgia. All these things didn't have to happen and in made to fail your hosts your producers connect the dots between these government failures and pull back the curtain on the policies that time and again have failed the people they were supposed to Protect made to feel takes his state-by-state through the policies programs and systems that have let people down you'll hear from the people and families who've been exploited by these failed policies and the experts who've been studying these issues every step of the way.

1 (11m 22s):
And what you find out is that these failures weren't accidents at all. They were by Design and if people are going to find their way out of this crisis, they need to know how we got here get the full story download made to fail today wherever you download your podcast you can even just Dream it you don't have to download it. Sometimes think about that.

3 (11m 47s):
This is Advertiser content

2 (11m 50s):
on the new peacock original series The capture Soldier Sean. Emery is accused of kidnapping a woman and the crime is caught on video. It seems like an open-and-shut case after all seeing is believing but what if it isn't and it makes sense almost not real. I want to close my eyes, so I seen another video. Happen on the capture. Sean. Emery says he doesn't remember doing it, but the video shows a different story. So in the face of overwhelming video evidence, which should you trust

3 (12m 19s):
more what you see on video or your

2 (12m 21s):
memory? Video manipulation is more common today as technology like selfie editing apps deep fakes and doctored screenshots become more sophisticated. So has our ability to deceive audiences almost anything is possible these days when it comes to video manipulation. So if we can't always trust the accuracy of videos and images can we rely on our memories instead memories are really a network of

3 (12m 45s):
brain cells and recalling a memory is actually a reconstructive

2 (12m 49s):
process that process changes as we get more information whether True or false our minds can even remember entire events that never happened a phenomenon known as false memory. All you need is to be in the context that makes it easy to receive the false memory. And so just like manipulating videos manipulating memories can be pretty simple. So with the possibilities for false information on both sides, which should Sean trust more the video footage or his memory find out what really happens in the capture all episodes screaming now only on peacock

1 (13m 32s):
Oh Nelson, you cover politics of vocs. I mean we were talking a lot about this stimulus that Republicans and Democrats were fighting over for a while and then it just kind of disappeared off the radar what happened to it.

3 (13m 44s):
Nothing really

1 (13m 47s):
I was that why disappeared off

3 (13m 48s):
the radar? Yeah. I mean the word that people have been using to talk about stimulus negotiations has just been stalemate

2 (13m 55s):
would you Be willing to call my speaker and saying you want to go back to the negotiating table today. Can I tell her that you suggested I call her right after the hearing? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah God, I will call her right after the hearing. Thank you

3 (14m 12s):
chairman. There was recently a call between treasury secretary Steve minutia and house Speaker Nancy Pelosi, but for the most part Congress has been on summer recess and in that time, you know, we've had the conventions the Presidential race has heated up and Congressional leaders and White House officials. Haven't really been talking that much about coronavirus stimulus

1 (14m 34s):
and you mentioned that the treasury secretary Steven venusian had a call with Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi. What do they talk about? Do we know

3 (14m 41s):
they talked about where Republicans and Democrats are at and how much money either side would be willing to spend Democrats passed a three trillion dollar bill way back in May and Polizzi issued a statement, you know saying, Democrats are willing to go down to two point two trillion dollars, but that is like their final threshold Republicans right now are going between you know, passing a one trillion dollar bill or a 1.5 trillion dollar bill, but they don't want to go any higher than that. So basically Pelosi said this phone call made it clear that Democrats and the White House still have this huge gap between where they are on this bill.

3 (15m 22s):
She's saying we're already trying to reach a compromise and our Burma is even is too much for Republicans to negotiate

1 (15m 30s):
on so the thing they're fighting about now is the thing they're fighting about a month ago, which is just how much money to spend on this thing.

3 (15m 40s):
Yeah. It's how much to spend but I also think something that they disagree on is where to spend the money and who to give it to Republicans are focused on passing, you know, another round of small business loans because as a program that that was pretty popular in their

2 (15m 55s):
Friends

3 (15m 56s):
500 billion total dollars in the PPP program five million loads you made that helps 85% of the small businesses around this country 51 million jobs Democrats are really focused on passing a lot of money for state and local governments.

1 (16m 12s):
The state governments are being forced to cannibalize their rainy

2 (16m 15s):
day funds they're cutting essential services and they're laying off workers according to the doorman of Labor one and a half million state and local government workers have lost. Their job since

3 (16m 26s):
February many of them have been spending a lot to sort of combat coronavirus in their individual states because we should note that President Donald Trump has kind of foisted federal responsibility for a lot of the stuff on to the states. So throughout the spring and summer states have been spending spending spending money trying to do testing trying to pay their portion of unemployment insurance trying to get schools back. So the state governments and local governments have been spending a lot of money without Much aid from the feds and it's really unclear if they're going to get any of that Aid

1 (17m 0s):
quickly is it dead or is it just

3 (17m 3s):
stalled? It's not dead and Congress is going to come back on September 8 next week to go back into session and so one would assume that talks would start then or hopefully before then but yeah, I mean, I think that the ideal scenario is that leadership would have hammered out a deal before Congress goes back so that they have something thing, you know ready to vote on and we should note here that the enhanced unemployment benefits have been expired for a while. You know, there are a lot of people that are really struggling to pay the bills there have been some executive orders on, you know moratoriums on a Vixens and things like that.

3 (17m 46s):
But all in all Congress has not appropriated new money and at this point Democrats and Republicans cannot agree on a number

1 (17m 56s):
Are they just going to call it at some point and be like, hey, we couldn't reach a deal. It's over when I'm going to talk about anymore. There's an election coming. We got other things to think about.

3 (18m 3s):
Well, the thing that I'm wondering is so Senate Republicans are supposed to go back on the 8th as well and from recent reporting. It sounds like what McConnell is going to do is going to try to force a vote on an even smaller Bill a 500 billion dollar bill, which of course, you know, Democrats say is not nearly enough for for the purposes of what is needed. So I I think that there are sort of going to be you know, some trying to force a vote tactics. This will fail Republicans will accuse Democrats of stalling which you know, maybe will help them in an election year. But yeah, I mean, I think maybe the thing that will spur people to do something is like if their poll numbers get really bad and they haven't

1 (18m 47s):
yet. Well the

3 (18m 49s):
whole dynamic with Senate races this year has been that Republicans had been worried about Trump. Well rating and Trump's status in polls and especially in Battleground State polls. That's what they're

2 (19m 1s):
looking at Biden now leading President Trump in all six Battleground

3 (19m 5s):
States and for a lot of vulnerable Senators like Susan Collins of Maine, you know, the paycheck protection act and stuff that they did in the last coronavirus package is a big part of their argument for re-election. So right now Battleground poles between Biden and Trump appear to be tightening a little bit Republicans are feeling Like they are a little bit more competitive than they were maybe in late spring early summer. And so right now I feel like you know, there might sort of be this idea of we can blame the Democrats for this we can kind of by ourselves a little bit of time, but that also might just make all of this worse and all of this worse for both Republicans and Democrats in the long run.

1 (19m 50s):
Could the president takes a more executive action. I know he did three or four things about a

2 (19m 55s):
Month ago the president re soaring unemployment benefits minimizing evictions suspending interest on student loans and enacting payroll tax

1 (20m 4s):
cuts. Did he do more now

3 (20m 6s):
at the end of the day Congress is the body that appropriates money Trump can't just conjure money out of thin air, you know, he can sort of direct where it goes through the federal government. But Congress is the one that has to appropriate new funding and so without this new funding. And especially as we're going into winter where you know, people are already going back to school. We're already seeing cases Spike, especially at colleges and universities outdoor dining that we've had that sort of kept restaurants afloat is going to have to move in door for winter. There are all these other things that are happening, you know few seasons going to happen. So, you know to just Baseline like not approving money to even just prepare for the next few months is concerning but at this point, you know, they're trying to Get money approved to sort of like clean up the mess of the summer.

3 (21m 0s):
So strategically that puts you way behind, you know, when the u.s. Is sort of trying to deal still with this big crisis. That isn't going away.

1 (21m 15s):
In a

3 (21m 15s):
way of the economic crisis has sort of had a cushion because Congress had passed this two trillion dollar care is act back in March that had the expanded unemployment insurance the $600 a week. And so a lot of people were able to kind of exist on that. It was actually, you know, a boost to some people's wages. So the economic Fallout hasn't been as bad because Congress acted quickly and decisively and past this two trillion dollar bill back in March, but because we now have this You know months long leg where there is. No new money being passed. I think that the economic Fallout could be much worse down the

1 (21m 53s):
line.

3 (22m 36s):
Hi, I'm Avery troubleman and I'm the new host of the cut podcast from New York Magazine and the VOX media podcast

1 (22m 43s):
Network

3 (22m 45s):
every Wednesday the cut editorial team and I will explore

2 (22m 49s):
surprising

3 (22m 50s):
provocative ideas about style self culture and Power in our first episode. We're looking at what it

1 (22m 57s):
means to be optimistic in 2020.

2 (23m 1s):
You can listen And subscribe to the cut now on Apple podcast or wherever you listen.