0 (1s):
Since Russia escalated its incursion into Ukraine just over six months ago, we've grown accustomed to seeing Ukrainian president Valdimir Zelensky propaganda from a bunker or some undisclosed location on his phone, on a computer. That's how we addressed Congress back in March. That's how he appeared at the Grammy's. Back in April, remember that his wartime leadership and propaganda machine has felt a lot like hearing from your boss on zoom during the pandemic, but not today. Today Zelensky made an unannounced visit to his zoom, a small town in Eastern Ukraine that the country just reclaimed in a hugely successful counter offensive against Russia.

1 (41s):
And he said the Ukrainian flag would return to every city and village in this country.

0 (46s):
This counter offensive has a lot of people asking whether Ukraine's winning now. And it's got a lot of people feeling like Putin's blowing it, including a whole lot of people in Russia, more on all that ahead on today, explained

2 (1m 0s):
Et photo captain Kirk. They may be aliens, hobbits or space captains, but they still have to eat. And we at gastropod are here to find out what they eat and

3 (1m 11s):
Why this episode gastropod goes behind the scenes to find out how food stylists in Hollywood bring all those pan galactic Gargo blasters and limbus bread to life. We

2 (1m 19s):
Also talk to famous side by and fantasy authors to see what role food plays in their fictional universes.

3 (1m 26s):
Stay tuned for replicators Reese's pieces and roast peacock. Find guest pot and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

4 (1m 34s):
Hi, I'm Kara Swisher for decades. I've covered Silicon valley, Washington and Hollywood making sense of those worlds by talking directly to the people who shaped them. Elon Musk, Barack Obama, Tony Fauci, Kim Kardashian. I've had the pleasure of grilling them all. Now I'm launching a new show called the Joe Rogan experience with Kara Swisher. Just kidding. It's actually called on with Kara Swisher. And let me tell you, it is on no holds barred on the tough questions or on my opinions on with Kara Swisher launches September 26th from New York magazine and the Vox media podcast network. Just look for on with Kara Swisher in your podcast app and hit follow or subscribe

6 (2m 19s):
Ukraine

7 (2m 21s):
At explain

0 (2m 23s):
Today, explained Ram firm here with Mary Eina, who covers Russia for the Washington post. She's gonna help us understand what just happened in Ukraine and why it's making Putin look real bad.

8 (2m 35s):
In the past few weeks, Ukraine has been undertaking this counter offense of, and they have achieved some really remarkable results, which it appears that even Ukraine didn't really expect to achieve

9 (2m 49s):
Major news from Ukraine tonight, troops driving Russian forces further back,

10 (2m 54s):
Ukraine's stunning offensive in the east freeing 150,000 people from Russian rule in just days, according to officials

8 (3m 2s):
And they matched to regain more land than Russia was able to take since April. So all these months Russia has been moving pretty incrementally. They've been taking smaller villages, smaller settlements, but they have not been able to take any big cities or the key hubs that they were hoping to take much, much earlier in the campaign. And Ukraine retook really important parts in the Harve region when

11 (3m 29s):
Vladimir Putin declared war and Ukraine nearly seven months ago, his troops seized massive chunks of Harve, but in just a matter of days, Ukrainian forces have blitz through Russia's gains snatching back huge swaths of land.

8 (3m 44s):
What that means is that they were able to cut off a lot of the supply lines of the Russian military and also deplete Russian forces there that were responsible for this direction, which makes it really hard for Russia to not even, you know, do offensive operations there in the near future, but also to hold their ground.

0 (4m 12s):
Where did this counter offensive come from? You said it's been in the works for a while now.

8 (4m 16s):
Yes. So obviously one of the goals for Lansky, the Ukrainian present was to not only kick Russia out, but also retake the lens that already took at the beginning of the campaign.

12 (4m 29s):
We've

13 (4m 29s):
Already lost too many people to simply seed our territory,

12 (4m 32s):
Not territory,

8 (4m 35s):
But obviously, you know, it needs a lot of preparation because Russia has a very significant force and Ukraine is outnumbered in many ways. So it took a lot of preparation. And also there was a report by the guardian that Ukraine also, you know, employed this tactic of saying the counter offensive is gonna be happening any minute and sort of keeping Russia on its toes, but also saying that the counter offensive is gonna take place in different location that actually happened.

9 (5m 2s):
The counter offensive that we're witnessing in hair soon right now is not the only counter offensive underway in this country.

14 (5m 11s):
I can't discuss details of any military actions. I think that information silence is important. So I want that the enemy gets some surprises from us,

8 (5m 24s):
Sort of tricking Russia into regrouping its forces and sort of spreading them out in a way that allowed Ukraine to concentrate in the region and, you know, achieve all these remarkable gains that they have.

10 (5m 37s):
And tonight that surprise paying off Ukrainian flags flying again over key strategic cities,

0 (5m 43s):
How did they do it? How did Ukraine take more land than Russia has taken in months over the course of a weekend? You

8 (5m 51s):
Know, that's, what's been surprising obviously because they moved really, really quickly and there reported to sort of Russian forces were really fleeing the area, abandoning a lot of the equipment. So they were definitely ambushed.

11 (6m 4s):
It's a humiliating defeat for Vladimir Putin's men forced to flee abandoning key supply hubs like KK and IK.

8 (6m 13s):
Also, I think what played a really important part here is that a lot of the problems that have been accumulating in the Russian army really, you know, came to light here, which is that they've been using a lot of the same units for a real long time without letting them rest, which made the force really exhausted. So it's very difficult for them to, you know, launch offensive and, you know, and do counter offensive as well. But also there were a lot of reports that Russia is losing a lot of equipment. Some of the equipment is really out of commission from the get go and it's not able to perform really well.

0 (6m 48s):
They

11 (6m 48s):
Left all their explosives and ammunition here said the Ukrainian soldier as the Russian frontline collapsed.

8 (6m 54s):
These two things sort of happened all at once, which allowed Ukraine to, you know, execute this really remarkable operation. The

15 (7m 1s):
United States provides battlefield intelligence to help Ukrainians defend their country.

0 (7m 5s):
There's been reporting that the west has helped Ukraine plan this counter offensive. How much do you know about that?

8 (7m 12s):
Yeah, it's been reported that us officials and generally the Western intelligence community is helping Ukraine with targets.

15 (7m 21s):
Ukraine combines information that we and other partners provide with the intelligence that they themselves are gathering on the battlefield.

8 (7m 29s):
There's obviously a really important balance here to note is that us especially has been very careful in making sure Ukraine doesn't strike far into Russian territory because that would mean really a directed tech in Russia. And that could have really bad consequences, but they have been helping with intelligence assessments and providing information.

16 (7m 51s):
The us explicitly has helped Ukraine kill Russians. They provided intelligence that helped the Ukrainians. We are told, shoot down a Russian transport full of hundreds of Russian soldiers. And that's just one of many examples. It's, it's an important relationship that our sources say has really affected the course of this war.

8 (8m 9s):
Russia always read it as look, this is the Washington directly fighting against Russia. And Russia's now up against the entire NA Alliance block because obviously of the weapon supplies, but also this help from the intelligence community. So they're trying to, you know, walk across a really tight rope here in terms of balancing how much they help Ukraine and how much the anger Russia. So whether that balance is gonna change after this counter offense is a very interesting question. A very important question, whether you ask way more comforting in doing that or not

0 (8m 45s):
Ukraine's counter offensive has most recently been focused on Harkey and, and the area surrounding it. How important is Harkey strategically for Ukraine?

8 (8m 54s):
It is very important because obviously the Russian border is very nearby next to Belgar region, which has been seeing some drone strikes and, you know, weird explosions that they've explained as accidental fires. But the understanding is that Ukraine has shown that it can reach into that area. What it also means is that for Russia, it'll be quite difficult to take all of the Dennette region that they've been, you know, hoping to add to the separate Republic there. And more importantly, it really disrupted the logistics because a lot of the supply lines, there were a lot of key junctures in that area. And for the Russian slide, it's obviously has been probably the biggest blow of this entire campaign.

8 (9m 38s):
How

0 (9m 38s):
Are people in this region Harkey responding to Ukraine, reasserting its control. There

8 (9m 45s):
Were a lot of videos emerging of people, residents coming out of their houses and welcoming Ukrainian forces and, you know, saying that they've been waiting for them for a real long time. And you know, that is a really triumphant moment.

17 (9m 60s):
Relieved residents embraced their liberators and offered the Ukrainian soldiers pancakes from shackling them from Russian oppression.

8 (10m 7s):
Well, we also know that there is a certain group of people who collaborate with the Russians there. A lot of those people have fled to the Belgar region in Russia, which borders, obviously Ukraine, they did that, you know, out of concern that they might be targeted for helping Russians there. So the population that sort of remained there is welcoming. The Ukraine forces of herky region has a pretty big Russian speaking population, but that necessarily doesn't mean that they are welcoming Russian forces to take their land and, you know, attach it to a different country.

0 (10m 42s):
Well, what's Russia doing in the short term, how has it so far responded to this counter offensive

8 (10m 47s):
Publicly Russia hasn't even really acknowledged much of the Ukrainian successes, huh? Russia's official line is that they didn't retreat. They regrouped and they regrouped to focus in the Danette area. The one that I mentioned that they want to sort of regain in full,

18 (11m 5s):
I asked Russia's deputy foreign minister with this country losing ground in Ukraine. Was it time to admit that the invasion had been a miscalculation clearly not,

20 (11m 19s):
We're moving forward steadily and consistently to fulfill all the tasks of the special military operation. As we've said several times, they will be achieved.

8 (11m 30s):
They're responding with more strikes, more aggression, but whether that's actually gonna, you know, strategically change the situation in that particular area is again, remains to be seen.

0 (11m 40s):
Hmm. How important is the timing of this breakthrough from Ukraine, this counter offensive? I know in Europe, there's a lot of fears about what this war might mean for the winter, for, for energy costs, for energy availability, how important is it that Ukraine succeed right now?

8 (11m 59s):
Well, it's important for both sides for Ukraine. You know, they need to prove that all the weapons in aid they're getting from the west not only helps deter Russia further, but also shows that they're their assert that they can win. This war is true and has sort of real basis behind it because that's something they've been, you know, saying this is crucial for them. They want their whole territory back the way it was before February 24th, Russia has been betting on this war of attrition. They're hoping that, you know, because they obviously have gas, oil supplies, and Europe is quite reliant on those supplies that them cutting and sort of using it as a bargaining chip will force Europeans to put pressure on their governments to stop helping Ukraine and sort of forget about Ukraine because of their energy bills, skyrocketing.

8 (12m 52s):
That's the be that Russia's, you know, making and that's their gamble here. And we've already heard a lot from Russian sort of state TV, anchor, and correspondent saying that they've had a really tough weekend trying to cope with the strategic loss that they've had, but by Monday sort of the beginning of the week, they've recuperated and said that really, you know, the dominance and the overall war is Russias and that the time is laying in their favorite. And what they mean is that they hope to wear out Ukraine wear out Europe, and they hope that the support for Ukraine will VA. So that's why, again, for Ukraine, it's really important to show that actually they're capable of really, really good strategic counter. Offensives

0 (13m 36s):
How humiliating all this is for Vladimir Putin in a minute on today, explained

2 (13m 47s):
Today's episode is sponsored by click up. What would you do if you had one extra day, a week laundry volunteer, help us make an episode of stay explained, email us, please. The folks at click up say that extra day might be out there waiting for you to grab it. This is a productivity platform whose goal is to save you a whole day of work. Every week, click up is designed to replace all the different productivity tools that live in different ecosystems. It can house your tasks, projects, docs, goals, and spreadsheets. So you don't have to keep hopping from platform to platform. It's set up to work just as great for a team of one person as a team of 1000. And I am told it is packed with features and customization options.

2 (14m 27s):
So you can work the way you work. Best listeners can use the code explained to get 15% off click ups, massive unlimited plan for a year. That means you can start saving time for under $5 a month. You can sign up today@clickup.com and use the code explained as a note, this offer does end soon. Hey, folks, I wanna tell you about another show that I have heard is amazing. It's called this is love. It's a podcast that takes a very broad view of love sharing stories, not just about romance, but also about people doing strange things. That mean a lot to them.

2 (15m 7s):
Like someone who digs up old backyard outhouses to find hidden treasure and a group of people desperately trying to keep one type of tree alive. Some of the stories are really funny. There's an episode about a guy who puts on a huge pair of fake feet and makes tracks up and down the beach. He spends decades fooling his neighbors and some of the stories are heartwarming. They have won about a man who found a baby on a subway platform. Listen for stories about love and all of the surprising forms it can take. You can subscribe to, this is love wherever you get podcasts

0 (15m 49s):
Today explained here with Mary, you cover Russia for the Washington post. Let's talk about Russia, how embarrassing is all this for VLA mayor Putin.

8 (15m 59s):
It is pretty embarrassing because his main brand and the one that he's been building for the past 20 years is that he knows what he's doing. He always gets the job done. In this case. We see even people who are extremely, Prommin extremely pro this invasion saying that they don't like the way Russia goes about this. And they don't like the planning we've heard from, you know, people like the leader of the communist party saying that Russia is not really fighting anymore in the special operation and is an actual war.

8 (16m 42s):
And the very use of the word war to describe this ion has been essentially banned by Russia. You know, people get fined or even jailed for talking about the war out in the open. They have to call it special military operations. So we've definitely seen a lot of criticism coming from the very Propent very hawkish camp. That is a very new development that, you know, we'll have to see whether that will push the Kremlin to change anything in the way they go about this vision.

0 (17m 11s):
Tell me more of what we've been hearing in terms of criticism of this war in Russia

8 (17m 16s):
Last weekend, just when the news broke that Russia lost a lot of the SL and retreated, the usually quite unanimous choir of procr and, and state propaganda voices was really in disarray.

18 (17m 32s):
The politician says those people who convinced Putin, the special operation would be over quickly. They took us for a ride.

8 (17m 40s):
Some people chose to completely ignore the news because they didn't know how to handle it. You know, some outlets like the Kremlin's official newspaper just did not report on this at all. Some very prominent TV shows started to say that look, Russia is not just fighting against Ukraine is fighting against the entire native Alliance. That's why it's, they're having such a hard time doing that.

22 (18m 2s):
We want to defeat Ukrainian army. It seems like it's practically impossible because it's strong GA really strong gamy Andras are supported, but practically all the European countries,

8 (18m 18s):
Some people use it as a way to call for more aggressions. So they want Putin and Crumlin to be even more aggressive retaliate against Ukraine, hit civilian targets. And just to do more.

23 (18m 30s):
Now, this is,

8 (18m 37s):
They believe that the way Russia is waging this for now is not enough. They want general mobilization. They want all country to be set on this war path and they want to go all out. So there's a lot of really conflicting messaging going on in the chem that is usually really Propent and follows the sort of the party line. Some of the like liberal and opposition forces have been also trying to season that moment. You know, there's been a pretty remote, remarkable effort from local lawmakers to collect signs among officials on this original level to call for Putin's resignation and accusing of treason. And they are already facing, you know, administrative offenses and fines.

8 (19m 18s):
And the police has launched investigation. They say that basically they goal, they believe they achieved the goal, which is to tell a lot of anti-war Russians who are still in the country that they're not alone.

24 (19m 33s):
Yeah.

8 (19m 35s):
They know that Putin's not gonna read this request and say, look, yes, exactly. You're right. I should stop doing this, but they want to get the word out that there's still some resistance. And even though there are big risks in, you know, presenting this resistance in the public and they're still willing to do that. Tell

0 (19m 54s):
Me more about Vladimir Putin's decision to not hold a draft, to not conscript more Russians into this war

8 (20m 2s):
In terms of general mobilization. The problem with that, it's gonna be really unpopular because what has been working so far is that a lot of Russians, you know, we can debate the numbers of how many support or how many are against the war. But the main consensus is that they're trying to tune this out. They try to live their life as normal putting the whole country, because that means not only drafting all the eligible men, that means resetting the whole economy and making, turning the whole country into this warmer machine that has to only work for the advancement of the frontline. And that would have a lot of repercussions because what Putin again has been promising Russians for a long time is this concept of stability.

8 (20m 42s):
They, as long as you stay out of politics, you can have your how's your job. You can, you know, live a normal life.

25 (20m 48s):
He came into the presidency at the end of 1999, promising to make Russia a great power. Again,

26 (20m 56s):
He was very much in contrast to Boris Yel, Yeltsin, his predecessor as president who was kind of known as a bit of a drunk Vladimir Putin represented a fresh face. He didn't drink.

27 (21m 8s):
Russia was virtually a failed state. Putin was able to restore an element of order out of this chaos, an element of prosperity out of misery and an element of international respect out of humiliation.

8 (21m 21s):
And that's something would a lot of Russians sort of clinging onto. And it would be a pretty huge political decisions to change all that, take that away. So he has been resisting that and instead they have been seeking really alternative and creative ways to draft people.

28 (21m 38s):
The Kremlin has responded with the launch of an extensive campaign to recruit volunteers, to fight on TV, social media, and billboards. They have promised huge sums of money and other perks, but many are given little or no training and a sense straight to the frontline.

8 (21m 53s):
And there's a concept of sort of shadow a mobilization that's happening in Russia.

0 (21m 57s):
What is shadow mobilization?

8 (21m 59s):
So that means there are several private military companies. There are basically mercenaries that are fighting on behalf of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, but not officially with the defense ministry, even though it is sort of giving them the orders and places them in places where they need them. And they have been, you know, responsible for a lot of the, you know, very, you know, crucial gains that Russia had in this campaign that also gives Russia some, you know, plausible deniability because there's conscripts fighting and they don't have to really acknowledge them among the losses. And another thing they have been doing is, is conscripting people from prisons. So there, there are multiple reports and there, these military private military companies go to prisons and they offer people deals.

8 (22m 41s):
Basically if they go to the front in six months, if they survive, they'll get a pardon. And they're specifically looking for people who have been, you know, accused of murder of, you know, violent crimes. So that's how they've avoided eternal draft. Whether that's gonna be enough now again, a big question.

0 (22m 59s):
Do Russian have any idea that they're, they're prisoners, they're they're murderers and thieves are fighting this war for them in Ukraine?

8 (23m 7s):
I think majority does not know about this because it's obviously now covered by the national media because it's, you know, very controlled. There are multiple human rights organizations that are working to help these convicts because the convicts are not given any guarantees because mercenary service is outlawed in Russia. It's legal, nothing is written on paper, so their rights are also being violated by this. But a lot of these groups have been recognized as foreign agents in Russia, so they can operate on a wider scale and form the general public about this effectively. And it's really difficult to do so. So I think the majority does not know about this.

0 (23m 46s):
Do we have any idea what Putin's plans are to regain footing in Ukraine? If any,

8 (23m 54s):
The planning is really not public in any way. We don't really even know who is the overall commander of this operation in Ukraine. We know obviously there's defense ministry, but there's somebody who's supposed to navigate all of that on the ground and be really hands on. And Russia has not even publicly announced who that person is. So it's all really, really secretive. And we can glean things from, you know, social media, through some of the, you know, soldiers who speak out or some of the, you know, intelligent assessments from the other side. So it's quite difficult to analyze what Russia is gonna do next. We know that they have some resort forces, but they're also needed in some other areas. So we don't know exactly if they're gonna be sent toif to regain any footing.

8 (24m 37s):
A lot of their battalion tactical groups have been depleted of forces throughout this campaign. And they have been sort of, kind of immense salad. And they've been throwing them together from different parts and trying to reassemble these groups. But what that means is that the chain of command is really disrupted and it's difficult to control all these groups because they're really don't have any combat experience together. So that makes it difficult for them to quickly respond and efficiently respond to all these targets.

0 (25m 5s):
How significant is this all told, I mean, this conflict escalated just over six months ago. It felt like Ukraine surprised the world by, by making it last six months though, there have certainly been any number of low points for Ukraine throughout, but now it seems like they've got the upper hand.

8 (25m 26s):
All things decided is obviously very important. What is by now appears to be clear is that the fact that Russia thought Ukrainian is a really weak country. That's not gonna sort of rally together. And that the Ukrainian forces, you know, haven't spent the last eighth years training with Western officers in vain, but they actually learned a lot of things and became much stronger than they were in 2014 when Russia. And Xia so all these things I think were not taking to account, which is showing now it's showing how what's gonna happen is obviously difficult to predict, especially when we have very little information coming publicly Moscow.

8 (26m 9s):
But I think it's, we shouldn't underestimate it as well. You know, it's maybe too early to say that this is the end, that this is the turning point, but we should also not underestimate it.

0 (26m 27s):
Mary Eina Washington post our show today was brought to you by miles. Brian, Amanda, Lou Ellen, Paul, Robert mosey, and Matthew Colette Vox. We were fact checked by Serena Solan. It today explained

29 (26m 53s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. That's why cities working to help tackle climate change, help provide a path out of poverty and help close the racial wealth gap. Some might say this is idealistic, but having ambitious goals is what helps all of us make meaningful progress to address worldwide problems. It's going to take worldwide action. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg G.