0 (1s):
It's today explained to him to wheel king Volodymyr Zelensky has impressed the world with his steely resolve during Russia's invasion. Ukraine's minister of defense is a different personality type earlier today. When a shipment of American weapons arrived in Ukraine, Alexi Reznikov tweeted. Thank you to my American flag, emoji colleague and friend at sec, Def Lloyd J Austin. The third for these powerful tools, exclamation point summer will be hot for Russian occupiers. And the last one for some of them Reznikov is extra. And I recommend a follow the American weapons he's referring to come at a crucial time in Ukraine's east.

0 (45s):
Russia is attempting to grind cities into submission, and it is advancing and those American weapons, well, there are some problems it's coming up on today. Explained

BalanceUS (1m 1s):
The Coca-Cola company. Keurig Dr. Pepper and PepsiCo are bringing consumers more choices with less sugar than ever before. In fact, nearly 60% of beverages sold contain zero sugar. Visit balance us.org to learn more

0 (1m 24s):
From the start. There has been something notable about the war in Ukraine. This is not an army only fighting another country's army, Ukrainian volunteers, people who are not in the armed services make up an enormous part of the fighting for

4 (1m 39s):
The bulk of those people. They are civilians. They are volunteers. They have a vast range of training in terms of whether they've only had a few days of training, some have had several weeks of training and they also have a wide range of equipment. Whether that's heavy arms anti-tank weapons supplied by the west, or just going into battle with rifles. You've got college students, you've got lawyers, you've got doctors, you've got musicians. People from every walk of life have volunteered to fight for their country in Ukraine. It's really fascinating to see a population that is so dedicated to the defense of their own country. The likelihood that Ukrainians will accept anything other than a complete and total Russian withdrawal from their territory is very low.

0 (2m 27s):
Mack William Bishop is a freelance reporter in Ukraine. He just got back from the east of the country where he was embedded with Ukrainian paratroopers.

4 (2m 36s):
There are hundreds of people dying every day on both sides in this area. There is absolutely no question that Ukrainian soldiers have died in the thousands. Since the beginning of the conflict.

0 (2m 48s):
There's been a change from what we saw during the start of the war. When Russia fought on many fronts and tried and failed to capture the Capitol key of Russia is now focusing on cities in the east, in the Donbass region, near the Ukraine Russia border.

4 (3m 4s):
The Russian advance is centered on a Crescent that surrounds a city called Solvera Donetsk. Severe Donetsk was the scene of intense urban combat. Over the last month. Most of the city has now fallen to Russia. Ukrainian forces have pulled back across the, the last major natural barrier, which is the severity doughnuts river to a town called <inaudible>, which is just on the other side of the river from Severna Donetsk. The Russian strategy is to essentially Incircle Ukrainian forces and try to cut them off and destroy them. What the Russians have that the Ukrainians do not have is overwhelming superiority of numbers and overwhelming superiority of firepower that superiority of firepower is primarily expressed with artillery, rockets, tactical, ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, and air power.

4 (3m 52s):
At one point I witnessed about 12 Salvos of Grodd rockets. Now that's a artillery rockets that has a range about 20 kilometers. I witnessed a barrage of Grodd rockets that was perhaps as many as 480 rockets landing on a Ukrainian position in less than a minute, that was followed by regular artillery and as well as cluster munitions, which are generally regarded as an extremely nefarious weapon.

0 (4m 21s):
<inaudible> in the areas where you've been. Are there still Ukrainian civilians there?

4 (4m 26s):
Yes. There are still civilians who have stayed in, in all of the major cities in this area, including severe Donetsk.

5 (4m 35s):
They are leading cocaine, no water, no gods, nobody to ECG. What can you say? We adjust for the widen.

4 (4m 44s):
I believe that the estimate by independence aid organizations, as well as local government was something in the neighborhood of 12,000 civilians remaining in severity. This is <inaudible>, which is the next major city that is being contested. Originally had a population of about a hundred thousand people. I think that's probably down as well to about 10% of the original population. So perhaps 10,000 people, a lot of the people that remain are not leaving because they're, they're elderly. They have mobility trouble. Maybe they have health problems or they simply don't have anywhere else to go. And then obviously there are some who just don't want to leave their homes. They would rather die in their homes, then become refugees and depend on the kindness of strangers

0 (5m 26s):
Ukraine as you've described. It seems outgunned. Is it also out-manned in, in terms of people doing actual fighting whose numbers are bigger,

4 (5m 36s):
What matters is what, what we would call local superiority of numbers. So if you're in a particular area, it doesn't matter if the overall big picture is that you're outnumbered. What matters is if you're outnumbered on this immediate vicinity. And so there are some areas I have been told by Ukrainian officials where the Russians outnumber Ukrainian defenders, by as much as 20 to one

0 (5m 56s):
Mac from your point of view and understand you are only one person and you have limited time in Eastern Ukraine, but east Ukraine losing this war. Now,

4 (6m 6s):
I wouldn't want to characterize either side is winning or losing at this point in the war. I think one, one important thing to think about is that this conflict is far from over. There's going to be months and months, if not years of fighting in Ukraine. I do think that there was a, an urge on the part of a lot of Western observers, particularly people who didn't specialize in Ukraine or in the Russian military to buy into the idea that this was going to be a quick and easy fight that, you know, Ukraine had beaten back the Russians outside of Kiev. And then that, that would be the end of the conflict.

4 (6m 48s):
It's simply not true. Russia's strategy is one of attrition. It is an effort to aggressively grab territory through the use of arms and it is executing that strategy. So Russia is still moving forward in many areas, particularly in the east. And again, this is one of the stated goals of the Russian government is to secure the provinces of new Han skin Donetsk and supports the, the proxy governments that they have set up there. Russia currently controls about 95% of the province of Lugansk. And perhaps I think 75% of the province of Donetsk overall Russia controls since the invasion began and on February 24th, Russia now controls 20% of the territory of Ukraine of the entire country.

4 (7m 36s):
And so I think one thing that was getting lost in these, these images of Russian incompetence competence for Russian strategic and tactical failures outside of Kiev is the fact that Russia had already seized massive swaths of territory within weeks of the invasion on February 24th. So the real question for the Ukrainians is not simply can it, can they stop the Russians from continuing to move forward and seize territory? It's how do they get the Russians out of the territory that they've already seized? And to do that, they're going to require a lot more resources than they're currently able to muster to defend their territory.

0 (8m 31s):
Based on what you saw during your M bed. What is Ukraine need most immediately?

4 (8m 36s):
I think every Ukrainian soldier that you, you, that you meet and talk to will tell you the same thing, as well as almost every Ukrainian official involved in security issues and military affairs. And the number one thing that they're all going to tell you is that they need air defense systems

8 (8m 53s):
Patriot it's a long range, high altitude, all weather surface to air missile system. The top choice of the U S it can detect, identify target and track ballistic and cruise missiles, drones, aircraft, and other threats.

4 (9m 9s):
The next thing of course, that Ukrainians desperately wants is aircraft.

9 (9m 14s):
And the pen gone confirmed late Tuesday, that the fighter planes and spare parts long requested by Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky have been delivered.

4 (9m 23s):
They absolutely want more aircraft. Most Ukrainians would prefer to have Western advanced aircraft if that were feasible. The last thing I think that most Ukrainians would tell you that they want and need is heavy, long range artillery.

10 (9m 38s):
Ukraine's president Zelensky called on the United States to supply long range weapons that can destroy Russian artillery from a safe distance.

4 (9m 47s):
The United States has supplied. Some of that

11 (9m 49s):
President Biden announced yesterday, the U S is sending an additional $1 billion in weapons and aid to Ukraine. This latest package includes harpoon anti-ship launches for the first time. The us is also sending more ammunition for the high malls sent last month. Plus other missile systems and ammunition,

4 (10m 7s):
The United States has, has offered about $5.6 billion in security assistance. Since the beginning of the invasion I'm included in that is I think 126 heavy artillery systems. And then a number of other NATO countries are also supplying heavy artillery, but Ukrainian officials say that they need about 10 times. What's currently being offered

0 (10m 28s):
10 times.

4 (10m 30s):
Yes, yes.

0 (10m 31s):
How much of a deal breaker or a deal maker are these Western weapons? Could you crane survive or be surviving if those weapons had never come based on what you saw and experienced?

4 (10m 45s):
I was in an anti armor squad in the us Marine Corps myself. And I can tell you that the ability to have, you know, a team of two people effectively stop an armored column from advancing is absolutely essential to carrying out an effective defense against the kind of forces that Russia is using against Ukraine. I think there's absolutely no question that Ukraine would not have been able to as effectively resist the Russian offensive towards Kiev. Were it not for Western anti-tank missiles and Western anti air missiles, particularly man, portable anti-Iran muscles, such as the stinger.

4 (11m 28s):
There have been thousands of advanced javelin anti-tank missiles supplied by the United States, Britain and Sweden have supplied the end law, which is another type of anti-tank missile. And then there's thousands of smaller versions of anti armor weapons that have been supplied to Ukrainian forces. Those have been a game changer in terms of allowing Ukrainians with relatively small numbers and with relatively a relatively small amount of training to effectively turn back Russian army columns

0 (12m 4s):
Coming up. The U S is sending weapons to Ukraine. Those weapons have the potential to be a game changer, but what happens when they get to Ukraine and soldiers there don't have the training or the proper equipment to use them.

The Lead Starting Five (12m 27s):
In sports news happens fast. It can be hard to keep up, but now you can keep tabs on your favorite players and teams or bitter rivals with a fast paced and fun new podcast from Wondery the lead starting five. It brings you five new stories from the world of sports. Every weekday get the same seller reporting as the lead, but now in a daily format, all in just 10 minutes, join Matt Strauss, Tiffany Oshinsky, Tate Frazier, and Sarah castle, as they break down the biggest sports stories of the day, whether it's Tom Brady, unretiring LeBron James hinting at another return to Cleveland or a minor league mascot, getting named a blob through a Twitter fan vote. You'll hear about it on starting five. Listen now on apple podcasts, Amazon music, or ad free by joining wonder, plus in the wonder app, the lead starting five, five sports headlines in 10 minutes,

The Vergecast (13m 22s):
I'm David Pierce. And I want to tell you about the Vergecast the flagship podcast of Santee and AI. No, I'm kidding. The Vergecast is a show from the verge where we talk about what's going on in tech, the big stories, the best gadgets, the worst gadgets, and basically all the ways tech might change your life in the future. Neil Patel and Alex Cranz are my co-hosts, but they're apparently too important and too busy to be here, recording this promo with me. Sorry. The editor in chief, you Got this David On Wednesday is the Vergecast crew dive deep into the stories. The verge covers from what's happening at the latest apple event. I am standing in the spaceship at apple to whether you should be taking phone calls from your earbuds at really loud coffee shops or, you know, to why it's so hard for the internet to just tell you what restaurants go to. It Is not a straightforward Solution. Then on Fridays Nila, Alex and I spent some time hanging out and making sense of all of the biggest tech news of the week. I hope you'll come, listen, and hang out with us again. That's the Vergecast like verge and podcast put together. You get it. The Vergecast see you there.

0 (14m 27s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king, mark, mark Hayward. What did you do in the military before you retired to Alaska?

15 (14m 34s):
For several years, I was a special forces soldier. I was a green Baret in massive air quotes. What

0 (14m 42s):
Does that mean? If

15 (14m 43s):
You want to be very technical, a green Baret is a hat. There's the technically correct terms such as a special forces soldier. And then the term that everybody recognizes a Greenbrae

0 (14m 58s):
Mark did other jobs in the military, not all of them with hats on, he was a parachutist, an officer, a physician's assistant who served in Kuwait and Iraq. And he worked with rocket launchers in 2007. He retired to Alaska and that's where he was when Russia invaded Ukraine. He was not watching the news on February 24th, the day of the invasion. But when he finally saw what was going on, he thought,

15 (15m 23s):
Oh dear God, it's 1939 all over again.

0 (15m 26s):
So mark volunteered to fight for the Ukrainian foreign Legion. This is a completely legal move by the way. And he made it because he thought he could be useful there.

15 (15m 37s):
I looked at what was happening and I had trouble continuing to look at myself in the mirror saying, I am sitting here while people whose only crime was to be living on real estate that Vladimir Putin wanted to colonize. And my responses to watch this on the news. My motivation was I don't like bullies and I was able to go. So I did.

0 (16m 12s):
Mark had applied to be part of the Ukrainian foreign Legion from the United States. He interviewed on zoom with Ukrainian officials who agreed with him. This guy seems useful. So his first stop was Poland. He volunteered as a combat medic. There it's another skill that mark has. He also did some work in Ukraine driving an ambulance over the border. But when you know, a lot, you get asked to do a lot that's war. So ultimately he and another volunteer taught the Ukrainians how to use a type of anti armor weapon that Britain had sent to Ukraine

15 (16m 45s):
Incredibly useful in the kind of chaotic light infantry versus armor fighting that was going on in Ukraine at that time.

0 (16m 54s):
But with the Ukrainians really needed help with where the anti-tank weapons that the United States sent

15 (16m 60s):
Do Ukrainians themselves, were asking for trainers to help them more effectively use the javelins.

0 (17m 6s):
What is a javelin and how does it work? A

15 (17m 8s):
Javelin is an anti-tank or anti armor weapons system that has two main parts. It has the launcher, which you use over and over again. And it has the missile itself, which is a fire and forget, you know, fire. Once it's like a round of ammunition, the launcher is powered normally by a non-rechargeable battery. That'll last for about four hours. If you're using the launcher as a thermal site, when the javelins were sent over to Ukraine, they were sent with the assumption that they would be powered exclusively by these non-rechargeable batteries.

15 (17m 50s):
These batteries being non-rechargeable have a finite lifespan.

0 (17m 55s):
Once the battery runs dead, the weapon doesn't work anymore.

15 (17m 58s):
That is exactly the problem that the Ukrainians had when we showed up. And you have put your finger on the problem for want of a nail. The shoe was lost for want of a battery, this hundred thousand dollar launcher. And these $80,000 missiles become very expensive paperweight.

0 (18m 15s):
No one in the military realized if we're going to send javelin set or battery powered, we also got to send batteries to power them.

15 (18m 23s):
It's remotely possible that someone thought this through and decided that it was a good idea. I have difficulty fathoming that anyone who understood the capabilities of the javelin would have reached that conclusion. It is remotely possible. I myself think that there was a failure of imagination somewhere along the way.

0 (18m 48s):
So it sounds like what you're saying is that we sent billions of dollars in weapons to Ukraine and just sort of hoped for the best.

15 (18m 55s):
Unfortunately, what we did at least as far as the javelins went was we sent hundreds of thousands, millions of dollars of weapons systems, and then turned our back on this. Probably my biggest contribution to the entire Ukrainian war effort was when we were in this situation, because I was raised by an electrical engineer. I looked at the batteries and said, okay, these things are weird and complicated, but what we basically have here is two 12 volt batteries that deliver their power to a unique and proprietary connector that goes inside.

15 (19m 47s):
There's a launcher. What if we took a couple of 12 volt motorcycle batteries and wired them up to one of these connectors, would that work? And a couple of Ukrainian engineers said, Hmm. And you know, got out napkins and drew on the back of it and said, yeah, that should work. We built a prototype with alligator clips and some broken computer parts. So they said, okay, we got a 3d printer. We're going to make some of these things and see if these will work based on a design from a medic from Alaska and some really impressive work by Ukrainian engineers and builders, and, you know, guys with a 3d printer, the Ukrainians got around their shortage of batteries by building external rechargeable battery packs for these hundred thousand dollar launchers and $80,000 missiles.

0 (20m 45s):
How much more effective do you think the Ukrainian military would have been if they had had weapons that didn't turn into paperweights? When the batteries died

15 (20m 57s):
In March, when my friends and I started working with the Ukrainians and their javelins, the need for effective training with the javelins and the need for available power sources for the javelins was an opportunity to shift the battlefield against the Russians. And in favor of the Ukrainians, there was a window of opportunity where the small things that we did then made a big difference. And if we could have gotten the U S to provide proper training equipment for the javelins, it would have made an even bigger difference.

0 (21m 39s):
Did you contact a lawmaker and say, the United States is sending weapons to Ukraine that are working for a limited period of time, and then they are not working at all. And that is a waste of money. And it is putting the Ukrainians in a very, very difficult position. It's not helping.

15 (21m 56s):
I started trying to have that conversation back in March, as soon as we identified that there was a problem, Senator Murkowski, his office in April was the first office that took my calls and called me back and mad props to them because they got no way of knowing who I am. I'm cold calling a desk phone in Juno, or Fairbank's talking to somebody whose job is to answer the phone saying, Hey, please, don't hang up on me. I'm calling you from Ukraine. I have vitally important information for the Senator.

0 (22m 32s):
And, and what was the response?

15 (22m 34s):
When I came back from Ukraine, Senator Murkowski met with me and took almost an hour out of her day on a busy day in Washington, DC and sat down and asked me very intelligent questions. Very much like the ones you're asking about what exactly was going on with the weapon systems we were sending to Ukraine and how we could do a better, faster, smarter job of it.

16 (23m 2s):
And we've been working with a constituent of mine. He's an army special forces VAT. He's he is facilitated several requirements letters from the Ukrainian ministry of defense, verifying the need for javelin training kits, including they had of Ukrainian defense intelligence.

0 (23m 20s):
So our more batteries being sent over with javelins to Ukraine, as we speak,

15 (23m 25s):
I've been given to understand that the U S executive branch has now sent over batteries and has even sent over some vitally important pieces of training equipment.

17 (23m 36s):
Ukrainians are now on the offensive against Russian forces in Harrison. And the Pentagon has promised to send them 4,000 more javelin batteries,

15 (23m 46s):
But the troops on the ground that need them still haven't seen them. And it's heartbreaking that this stuff happened in may trending into June when the need was known and clear back in the middle of March. And when it took a sitting us Senator on the appropriations committee to get anybody in DOD, to even have a conversation about the topic,

18 (24m 14s):
The issue is a specific issue of training on javelins has never come up. But if, if, if they raise that issue, certainly we stand ready to, to train them. And we're pushing training kits into, into country as well.

15 (24m 34s):
It is possible to send the right equipment at the wrong time. It is possible to identify a problem and spend so much time circling the wagons about why didn't we do it earlier, or whose fault was it that we didn't send them, that you miss opportunities and missed opportunities in normal life mean, dang, I didn't get that really great quote from the interview missed opportunities in Ukraine mean that kids, the age of my sons and daughters, they don't get to have a future

0 (25m 18s):
Today's show was produced by Hadi Milwaukee, D and Victoria Chamberlain. It was edited by Matthew collect and it was engineered by Paul mousey. It was fact-checked by almond L Sati I'm Noel king it's today explained

Wealthfront (25m 51s):
Support for today's show comes from wealth front, well friends, automated trading, optimizes your portfolio based on your own risk settings, helping you reach financial goals without lifting a finger. The real secret to their performance I'm told is they're great software. It's built to make it easy and rewarding to work, to build your long-term wealth with wealth front, you can allow their experts to make socially responsible decisions or take full control and just build your own portfolio with their curated selection of funds. Wealthfront is trusted with over $27 billion in assets and is helping nearly half a million people secure their future to start building wealth and get your first $5,000 managed for free for life. Go to wealthfront.com/explained that's w E a L T H F R O N t.com/explained to start building your wealth, go to wealthfront.com/explained to get started today.