0 (1s):
The International Court of Justice isn't typically the most exciting place on earth.

2 (8s):
The ICJ does a lot of stuff that like four individual states may be quite important, like maritime boundary elimination, but that the broader public is often very not interested in.

0 (20s):
But then the war between Israel and Hamas appeared on the docket.

2 (26s):
I think it is fair to say that this has been the wildest and most kind of unhinged experience I have ever had, covering a case of the ICJ. Find

3 (36s):
The people here who believe that there needs to be a ceasefire, Israel need to stop its hostilities in Gaza. And all of

2 (44s):
The interests, the media attention, the number of protestors, counter protestors, sort of outside of the court has nothing like I have ever seen in my five years. Covering the court

0 (54s):
Coming up on today, explained a provisional ruling from the ICJ.

Vanta (60s):
Support for the show comes from Vanta Dealing with loads of spreadsheets, juggling different tools and having to do manual security checks can be a headache. It's tough to keep up with the demands of today's compliance and security programs. Vanta is a trust management system that wants to simplify things and bring all your trust building efforts under one roof, making growth smoother for your whole org. You can get $1,000 off Vanta when you go to Vanta dot com slash explain. That's va nta.com/explained for $1,000 off Vanta.

Western Sound and APM Studios (1m 41s):
In 2010, the largest oil spill in American history captivated the public's attention. Authorities told a story of a response effort that prevented a worst case scenario, but if you ask some people who lived through the spill, they'll tell you a more complicated story. They weren't attending to the workers. I was bleeding from everywhere we were all lied to From Western Sound and a PM Studios Comes a new investigative podcast, ripple available now

0 (2m 19s):
Today, explained Sean Ramas from here with Molly Quell from Courthouse News. She covers the International Court of Justice, where there was big news on Friday.

2 (2m 28s):
I think the biggest takeaway from what we saw on Friday when the court issued a ruling on provisional measures, which is sort of like an emergency order or like an injunction, is that the court sees that there is a plausible risk of genocide being committed in Gaza and has told Israel that it has to do everything that it can to prevent genocide. It has to allow in humanitarian aid, and it has to report back to the court within a month. And that will probably be sort of extended into a regular reporting period about what it is doing. Yeah. To prevent and punish genocide that may be occurring.

0 (3m 7s):
Before we talk about this particular dispute, can you just tell us about the International Court of Justice? Like what is this court? How do cases there usually work?

2 (3m 16s):
The International Court of Justice, sometimes it gets dubbed as the World Court. It's the highest judicial organ of the United Nations. It was established as a way to sort of keep countries from settling their disputes with military action and instead to take their disputes to a court and have judges settle them. Instead, it's based in Hague, so it's often gets confused for the ICC, which is the International Criminal Court where you sort of put actual people on trial, individuals on trial for crimes of genocide or crimes against humanity.

0 (3m 49s):
So let's talk about this case. How did this all get started?

2 (3m 52s):
So in December, south Africa announced that it was gonna file proceedings against Israel under the 1948 Genocide Convention. That's a pro post World War II treaty outlawing genocide. The reason that South Africa brought this case is because any country that is a party to the Genocide Convention can bring a case under the Genocide Convention. And what South African politicians say is they feel a particular kinship to the experiences of the Palestinians and Gaza because they are experiencing what they say is apartheid and Of course. South Africa very famously had this apartheid state situation for a long time. And so they say that there is like a relationship there.

6 (4m 32s):
Nelson Mandela famously declared that our own freedom as South Africans is incomplete without the freedom of Palestinians.

0 (4m 44s):
And why is it another country? Why is it not Palestine? Why is it not the people of Gaza?

2 (4m 52s):
Well, Palestine has a, what I like to call an its complicated relationship with statehood. Palestine is a party to the Genocide Convention. It's a little unclear if Palestine could bring a case at the court because Palestine is not completely recognized as an independent state. Various different international bodies recognize Palestine in various different ways. And so it's legally untested basically is what lawyers will tell you. I think that that is, you know, one argument that we would've spent a lot of time kind of dragging out whether or not Palestine had standing to bring a case. I think also that, yeah, I mean Palestine clearly has a lot going on at the moment, and that what South Africa will say is, is that all parties to the Genocide Convention have a obligation to prevent genocide wherever it is happening in the world.

0 (5m 42s):
Genocide is a big word. How is South Africa arguing its case?

2 (5m 48s):
The genocide convention outlaws more than just genocide, and this is like sometimes a common misconception. It also outlaws incitement to commit genocide, complicity in genocide, failing to prevent genocide. So there's like kind of a longer list of sort of genocide related crimes that are outlawed by the convention. Genocide isn't a numbers game, basically. I mean this is, it's not about how many people you kill. It's that if your intention is to kind of wipe a population, a a subset of a population, an ethnic group, a religious group, or whatever, kind of off the map, that that that is enough to be considered genocide. What South Africa says is that it's clear from the Israeli military action post October 7th, or in response to the Hamas attacks on October 7th, that what Israel is trying to do is destroy and whole or impart a national ethnic group.

2 (6m 39s):
The, the Palestinians

7 (6m 41s):
Prime Minister Netanya in his address to the Israeli forces on 28 October, 2023, preparing for the invasion of Gaza urged the soldiers to remember what Amalek has done to you. This refers to the biblical command by God to sow for the retaliatory destruction of an entire group of people known as the Amalekites.

2 (7m 7s):
And also that they are allowing Israeli officials to go unpunished for committing acts of genocide, for committing incitement. So by saying things that sort of, you know, seem genocidal, that they are failing to do what they can to prevent civilian deaths and protect civilians and civilian infrastructure like hospitals and schools and all of this sort of when taken together is tantamount to genocide.

8 (7m 32s):
And as they try to find food and water for their families, they have been killed if they failed to evacuate in the places to which they have fled and even while they attempted to flee along Israeli declared safe route.

2 (7m 51s):
What you sort of see in South Africa's 84 page filing is a lot of evidence from international observers, you know, different UNN bodies about kind of how Palestinians who live in the Gaza Strip are treated the ways, the things that they are experiencing currently. So food shortages, water shortages, lack of access to medical care. You saw a lot of statements from Israeli officials kind of saying things that seem like they could be incitement to genocide. You saw a lot of things in their application about showing video of IDF soldiers, maybe like celebrating civilian deaths, this kinds of stuff, which sort of puts together this package that kind of South Africa says, shows that that Israel is, is committing genocide.

0 (8m 40s):
And how many times has this court said there's been an attempted genocide? A genocide was committed

2 (8m 46s):
Once. The only other time that the court has ruled that there was a genocide that has occurred was in a case brought by Bosnia against Serbia. This had to do with the breakup of the former Yugoslavia. And in that case, there was a specific incident that happened where 8,000 Muslim men and boys were killed in the town outside the town of Reza. So this gets called the Reber genocide or the Reza Massacre. And in that case with the court found was is that the government of Serbia had failed to prevent non-state actors. There's a lot of militias operating or sort of quasi militias operating from committing genocide.

0 (9m 25s):
So what was the defense that Israel's legal team mounted? So

2 (9m 29s):
What Israel said during hearings two weeks ago over provisional measures is, is that it has a legal right to defend itself that the attacks of October 7th by Hamas were horrific and that it has an obligation to respond to protected citizens and that its actions in Gaza do not amount to genocide. That the threshold for genocide legally speaking is quite high, and that this does not meet that threshold.

9 (9m 55s):
The key component of genocide, the intention to destroy a people in whole or in part, is totally lacking. What Israel seeks by operating in Gaza is not to destroy a people, but to protect the people. Its people.

2 (10m 14s):
And it asked the court to chuck the case out in its entirety Hmm. And said that there was no need for any provisional measures.

10 (10m 21s):
Consistent case law suggests that assurances of the kind offered by Israel may well render the indication of provisional measures unnecessary.

0 (10m 33s):
But the court did not chuck it out.

2 (10m 35s):
The court did not, this isn't particularly surprising. The threshold for provisional measures is pretty low at the court for kind of obvious reasons, right? These cases take a long time. The idea of provisional measures, this is sort of like calm the situation down a little bit, keep, you know, the people in question as protected as much as possible. While the judges are sort of deciding kind of on the underlying issues, the judges only have to think that there's like a plausible risk that the rights protected by the convention are being violated so that you know that, that there's a plausible risk that genocide is occurring or could occur in Gaza.

0 (11m 11s):
Okay. And on Friday we got a provisional ruling. Yes. What does it say?

2 (11m 16s):
The court ordered Israel to adhere to six provisional measures.

11 (11m 20s):
The state of Israel shall in accordance with its obligations under the convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide in

2 (11m 28s):
Relation, it's maybe worth noting that South Africa had asked for nine things and basically what they said is that, you know, they sort of reiterated this obligation that Israel has to prevent and punish acts of genocide,

11 (11m 40s):
A killing members of the group B, causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group C deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life calculated to bring about, about its physical destruction in whole or in part and d imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group

2 (12m 2s):
That it needs to allow in humanitarian assistance, that it has to report back to the court about the measures that it is taking, that it needs to punish examples of genocide as they are occurring. And that also can mean things like incitement to commit genocide or failing to preserve evidence of genocide, this kinds of stuff.

0 (12m 21s):
But this was not a ruling, most importantly, on whether or not some genocide has been committed.

2 (12m 27s):
No, Israel did not convince the court that there's not a plausible risk that genocide is occurring in Gaza. So the, the court says that there is a risk of this happening and that Israel has obligations to not allow it to happen or stop it. If it is doing it But, we won't get a ruling as to whether or not there is a genocide occurring until much, much later. I mean, yay will be years before we, before we have a definitive verdict on that.

0 (12m 55s):
And that's just how it goes at the International Court of Justice. That

2 (12m 57s):
Is how the wheels of international justice turn.

0 (13m 7s):
You can read and follow Molly quells work at Courthouse news.com when we return on today. Explained what this provisional ruling means for Israel and Gaza

Mint Mobile (13m 33s):
Support for today. Explained comes from Mint Mobile Mint Mobile knows you just don't have that much money right now for a limited time wireless plans from Mint Mobile or 15 bucks a month when you purchase a three month plan. That's unlimited talk text, high speed data for $15 a month. Now if you wanna know whether you can keep your phone, the answer to that question is yes. You can keep your phone, you can keep your number, you can keep your existing contacts to get this new customer offer and a new three month unlimited wireless plan for just 15 bucks a month. You can go to Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. That's Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. You can cut your wireless bill to $15 a month at Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. Additional taxes, fees and restrictions do apply. See Mint Mobile for details.

Robinhood (14m 26s):
Support for today, explain comes from Robinhood. There are lots of ways to potentially boost your investments these days. If you've got 'em and even more options to to, you know, stash 'em, you can stash 'em in all kinds of places. If you're interested in finding new ways to invest, you might consider moving your brokerage account to Robinhood. Whether you're transferring $1,000 or as they say casually, $2 million. Right now Robinhood is offering an unlimited 1% bonus on your assets. Unlimited as in no cap, my G You can see why over 3 million people have rated Robinhood five stars on the app store five stars. You can visit robinhood.com/explain to claim your bonus terms apply to the bonus, see full bonus terms@robinhood.com. Investments offered through Robinhood Financial LLC investing is risky. Don't you know

Unexplainable podcast (15m 31s):
This week on unexplainable, we're talking about the slight month of, we're talking about the science of swearing. If you stick your hand in a bucket of ice water, you might be able to tough it out for a bit. But if you start saying something like donkey eater, you'll be able to keep your hand in there way longer. And the stronger you experience, that's where we're just being, the better the painkiller it is. But you don't get the same power from words like fudge only things like God, Which raises all these intriguing questions about what's happening when we're flaring For new episodes every Wednesday. Listen to Unex explainable

0 (16m 21s):
Today. Explain is back. We wanted to find out what this preliminary ruling means for the ongoing war in Gaza. So he reached out to Robert Blecher from the International Crisis Group. He and his outfit are big proponents of peace. Robert spent years focusing on the Middle East. We started with expectations going into this case at the ICJ,

16 (16m 41s):
There were some expectations going into the case because of the enormity of the events on the ground. So I think on the Palestinian side, you had people hoping that they would get the ultimate outcome for them, which, which would've been the court ordering a ceasefire that was always extremely unlikely. And I think most people knew that even among Palestinians. But I think especially for Palestinians who are in Gaza now, who are living in some appalling conditions and who really are just absolutely at the end of or beyond the end of their coping capacities, the prospect of anything short of a ceasefire was gonna be a disappointment.

16 (17m 26s):
And you know, sure enough that indeed is what happened for the people who are living in the worst of conditions. Anything short of what one of them referred to as a red card for Israel was a disappointment. He said in the end they got a yellow card instead of a red card. We wanted them to get a red card. I think most people were expecting something along the lines of, of what we saw on the end, which was moving forward with it because the bar for plausibility, even though when it comes to something like genocide, you would think it would be fairly high. But like the bar for for plausibility in this kind of extreme war situation is actually not that high.

0 (18m 1s):
How consequential is the yellow card?

16 (18m 3s):
It's politically consequential. And you know, I think you can, you can see that it's that there's a change in the international discourse around Israel Palestine. You can see already during this war, how in the days after October 7th, there were enormous international sympathy with Israel. After the horrendous of, of those attacks and all the people that were murdered But, we very quickly moved into the war where in the, what? Three plus months, almost four months since the, the balance of victimhood has shifted, right? This is, this is like we, we frequently see this in Israel Palestine and in other places where there's sort of a competition over who's the biggest victim.

16 (18m 50s):
And this case is gonna go on for years and for years now you're going to have Israel and genocide connected in, in the, in, in media, in public conversation and things like that have effects.

0 (19m 5s):
So Rob, since we're talking about the politics of this provisional ruling from the International Court of Justice, let's talk about political responses starting with those in let's say Gaza Palestine.

16 (19m 19s):
Yeah, so in Gaza, people are, people are, are, are, are, are happy that, that the case is moving forward and that the case wasn't stopped as it could have been. It could have been thrown out even at this early stage. But I think in Gaza for the people who were suffering most, they wanted to see a, a, a further step by the court. They wanted to see a, a ceasefire ordered for other Palestinian leaders. It's a, it's a victory of sorts. It's a recognition of the fact that that Israel's campaign has, is being seen now is incredibly violent as potential as potentially or plausibly in the language of the court plausibly being seen as a genocide.

16 (20m 3s):
And so that's a win in terms of the global narrative.

0 (20m 7s):
So something akin to a win here on the Palestinian side. What about the Israeli side?

16 (20m 12s):
On the Israeli side, there's outrage, you know, the fact that Israel, which was, you know, born in the ashes of the Holocaust and you know, for whom the, the holocaust, you know, was the event which led to the, the Genocide Convention. So for the idea that Israel would be connected to genocide is just wrong and offensive for many in Israel,

17 (20m 37s):
The charge of genocide level against Israel is not only false, it's outrageous and decent people everywhere should reject it. And the eve of the international Holocaust Remembrance Day, I again pledge as Israel's Prime Minister never again.

16 (20m 53s):
And so there's a good deal of, there's a good deal of consternation about the fact that the court would've gone this way. But among the leadership, it was also expected that I think everybody was thinking that the court was gonna take some kind of middle ground here. They were not gonna order a ceasefire, but they were not gonna throw out the case. And so they were somewhere in the middle with these provisional measures. And even the Israeli ad hoc justice, you know, each, each of the sides gets to a point, a justice to sit with the rest of the justices of the, of the ICJ. Even the Israeli justice voted with the vast majority on two of the provisional measures.

16 (21m 35s):
One of them was the necessity of increasing humanitarian aid and basic goods and essential services. So, you know, when you even have the Israeli justice voting on positively or voting affirmatively on that issue, you know, you can see how among the establishment in Israel, they, they knew what was coming.

0 (21m 55s):
So how does the International Court of Justice enforce its yellow card? How does it make sure that people in Gaza get more humanitarian aid that that Israel prevent a genocide?

16 (22m 7s):
It doesn't. There is no enforcement mechanism for the ICJ. If there were to be an enforcement mechanism, it would be the UN Security Council. So the co the security council would need to follow up and, and pass a resolution which would be binding and there would be the potential for enforcement. That's extremely unlikely to happen in this case because of the political shield, the veto that the US has at the Security Council. And it will use to prevent any kind of follow-up. But I think it's worth adding here that even though most people are looking at this and saying, well, there's no enforcement mechanism, it's interesting to look what's happened in Israel over the last couple days.

0 (22m 50s):
Okay. So not a lot of teeth here from the International Court of Justice, which we've covered on this show before, and yet we get this provisional ruling on Friday, and by Sunday we're seeing news that there might be a two month ceasefire between Hamas and Israel. Is that related, Rob?

16 (23m 8s):
Yeah, I would say that the ICJ ruling is coming together with a bunch of other factors that is creating pressure on Israel to change the way that it's conducting this campaign. So it's the ICJ ruling. It's also the fact that there is growing frustration in Washington with the fact that Washington has been pushing for more humanitarian aid, for figuring out how to get to a ceasefire for figuring out what a day after in Gaza eventually would look like. Obviously there's a lot of international pressure from other addresses, not just from the us. So when you put the ICJ together with a bunch of other stuff, there's a lot of pressure on Israel.

16 (23m 51s):
And I would say this just, this just ups the ante. I think if you wanna look for specific consequences, you could look on a slightly smaller scale. Over the past week there have been protestors in Israel blocking the access of even the small amount of humanitarian aid that Israel has been letting in. There have been Israeli protestors, right? People on the far right and also some of the hostage families blocking those trucks from moving into Gaza. Israel was not preventing those protests until the ICJ decision came down after the ICJ decision came down requiring more humanitarian access, more humanitarian goods.

16 (24m 37s):
The next day Israel cleaned out those protestors so the trucks could go in. That's not a coincidence. So, you know, I think you can say that even if Israel rejects officially and the Prime Minister stands up and rails against how outrageous the judgment is when you look at what's happening on the ground, they don't want to do things now that are going to be used as evidence or leverage against them later in the process.

0 (25m 3s):
Do you think ultimately that's what this was all about? If, if, if everyone knew going into this that a genocide ruling would take years, that, that the International Court of Justice doesn't have teeth that, that any enforcement would have to come through the UN Security Council on which the United States sits and would certainly veto any such decision that this ultimately was just about putting more pressure to get humanitarian aid into Gaza, to put more pressure to get a ceasefire between Hamas and Israel.

16 (25m 34s):
That could have been one motivation. I, I think, I think it probably was one of South Africa's considerations, but I think more broadly, you're seeing the shift in the international or global discourse around Israel Palestine and actors in the, so-called Global South are becoming more assertive. They've seen what leaving the supposed peace process to the US and other traditional actors has yielded, which is not much. And in, when you look around the world now, increasingly, a lot of middle powers, as they're often called outside of the west, are exerting their, you know, whether it's moral authority or their, or the power of their arms industry or their economic power.

16 (26m 25s):
I think you're, you're seeing that happen in a number of different consequences. And one of the weapons, I suppose you could say are one of the capacities of South Africa is, is a moral one, is a moral credibility on the basis of the fight against apartheid. And they're mobilizing that in the international sphere in a way which they have not before. And they're trying to change the way people talk about Israel Palestine.

0 (27m 2s):
That was Rob Blecher. He's the future of conflict director at the International Crisis Group. Our program today was put together by Halima Shaw and Victoria Chamberlin with lots of help from Isabel Angell, Amanda Lewellyn, Matthew Collette, Laura Bullard, and Patrick Boyd. It's today explained.