0 (1s):
On Friday, the Supernova Music Festival got underway in the Negev Desert, not far from the Gaza Israel border. And people were still dancing on Saturday morning around six 30 when they saw Paragliders in the sky. Some people kept dancing until they saw rockets, but then the music cut out and a war began.

3 (26s):
Hamas militants came to murder humiliate, and to shatter Israeli's sense of safety.

5 (33s):
Israel is changing the skyline of the Gaza Strip, flattening it. Israel has also cut off Gaza completely. No power food and water allowed in. It's a total siege,

0 (49s):
A brutal new chapter in a seemingly never ending fight. Coming up On today. explained

Canva (1m 0s):
Support for this episode comes from Canva who just launched Magic Studio, a set of AI powered tools that supports every part of your workflow. With Magic Studio, you can create custom designs from just a text prompt, generate sparkling copy in your brand's voice for any design or document, edit images, or create new ones. Generate beautiful content fast. Track your first draft, automate tasks and design like an expert, all the power of AI, all in one place. Explore Magic studio at canva.com/magic.

PhRMA (1m 32s):
And here's your prescription. I know just the pharmacy to get this filled. Who are you? A pharmacy benefit manager, a middleman your insurer uses to decide which medicines you can get, what you pay, and sometimes even which pharmacy you should go to. Why Can't I go to a pharmacy in my neighborhood Because I make more money. When you go to a pharmacy, I, No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma

10 (2m 12s):
You're listening to today. Explained

0 (2m 15s):
Allison Kaplan Sommer hosts the Hares Weekly podcast. We reached out to her at her home in Ana near Tel Aviv to ask how all this began.

11 (2m 25s):
Well, I woke up on Saturday morning from my husband's phone. He has an application on his phone that will ring if there's some kind of a red alert missile situation in our region. We have apps for that. So first I was woken up by the phone, but we didn't hear anything. And so for a few minutes kind of went back to sleep and kind of ignored it. We didn't immediately think that there was any kind of an emergency situation. And then five, 10 minutes later, we heard an actual siren go off outside the house and we kicked into gear as we have in previous rounds of conflict.

11 (3m 7s):
We got our daughter out of her room and we all went down to the reinforced room in our house and waited for the siren to end and waited for the thudding sounds of some sort of a missile collision, either mid-air or something landing that happened. And that's when we all tuned into the news and we thought, you know, this was another typical round of air conflicts between Hamas and Gaza and Israel.

12 (3m 38s):
Turning

11 (3m 39s):
Into the news, it became very clear that this was a situation unlike anything we'd seen before.

13 (3m 48s):
Hundreds of Hamas fighters poured across breached border points, smashing Israel's defenses heading to more than 20 communities in a house, to house search largely unopposed. This happening across a wide area in communities, which were clearly part of a targeted plan. Once there, the fighters killed indiscriminately in the single deadliest day in Israel's existence.

11 (4m 17s):
And there were also reports that inside adjacent cities, Ash Colon is a major city not far from the Gaza border ot, that there was shooting going on in the streets, that there were Hamas terrorists inside these Israeli cities, and there were battles going on. This was something that we were unfamiliar with, had never seen before and didn't even seem possible. The Israeli army has said that at least 50 soldiers have been kidnapped to Gaza. There are reports of a hundred and 150 Israelis in total being held in Gaza. That's what Israel's UN ambassador has recently told the media.

11 (4m 58s):
So this kind of mass hostage situation is something that Israel has never dealt with before and is completely unfamiliar with, with how to handle people. Make a lot of comparisons between what has happened now in terms of military intelligence failure and the Yom Kippur war. Exactly, 50 years ago, it was on October 6th, 1973 that the Yom Kippur war broke out. This was October 7th, 2023 on the Jewish holiday of Sukkot that this war broke out. But when you talk about hostages and prisoners of war, back then, Israel was in a much better position because it was dealing with the Egyptian army, which was very organized and operated according to international procedures in terms of who the prisoners of war were, how they were being treated.

11 (5m 49s):
This was all known, and it is clear that there's going to be a long and exhausting and depressing process of trying to figure out who is being held hostage, where they are. The negotiations are going to involve knowledge of the hostages as well as trying to ascertain their safe return and the return of bodies of any of those who are killed on the other side. In Gaza, this is the great wild card, I think, of the events of Saturday. This is something that Israel has never seen before or dealt with before.

0 (6m 27s):
And in the hours and even days that followed, gimme a sense of how Israelis came to understand how vast this attack was.

11 (6m 38s):
We understood that it was in so many places, in so many communities, and there is so much confidence in the Israeli military. This is a people's army, right? These are our fathers, brothers, sons, people we know. There is a huge amount of belief that when there's a problem, the army is there to take care of it. So disbelief increased over the course of the coming hours and unbelievably days when we learned that these people in these communities were locked inside their safe rooms, hearing gun battles going on around them, learning that there were terrorists in their homes and some of them were sitting and waiting for help for hours and some overnight for days.

11 (7m 23s):
And people were calling for help sending pinpoint locations to the authorities of where they were saying that they needed to be rescued in many cases, that they were injured and no help came and nothing was on the way. This was a huge, huge crisis of confidence in the capability of the Israeli army. That's continuing even right now. We

14 (7m 43s):
Have planes, we have helicopters, we have tanks, we have everything. And, and the d f for the first couple of hours, it's like the we, we had no army. The I d F wasn't exist.

0 (7m 57s):
So obviously we have the shock of the attack, but it sounds like we also have a fair amount of shock over just how this happened at this point. What is your understanding of, of the answer to that question? How did this happen? How was the Israeli military caught? So flatfooted,

11 (8m 17s):
I am no expert in the Israeli military or military intelligence, but I have spoken inside ha, where I work with former military correspondence with someone considered the utmost expert in military intelligence. And they are as stunned, surprised as I am that there was no detection of any kinds of plans of something on this scale that is going to be the subject of some kind of major inquiry. After the guns grow silent, there will be implications for it. But what everyone across Israeli society is saying right now is we just don't have the time, energy, or bandwidth for asking that question right now.

0 (9m 3s):
Tell me how Israel is responding.

11 (9m 5s):
Israel is responding first of all, in the way that it normally responds, which is to immediately launch a major operation over Gaza from the air

3 (9m 17s):
The might of Israel's arsenal thundered down on Gaza's cities turning vast swaths of the Palestinian enclave to rubble in retaliation for Hamas' unprecedented attack. Israel's military told people to leave, but many either could not or did not. And perished

11 (9m 35s):
Massive bombing is taking place. Israel has a bank of targets, Haleema targets, Islamic Jihad targets, which every time that there is a conflict happening, you know, they start to go down the list. And the other preparation that's going on on a major scale is preparation for some sort of assault from the north, from Lebanon, from Hezbollah forces suspecting that whatever inspired Hamas to do this at this time, there's a possibility that Iran is involved.

15 (10m 9s):
It's no secret that Iran, a sworn enemy of Israel has long provided financial and military aid to Hamas along with other militant groups in the region such as Hezbollah in Lebanon.

11 (10m 22s):
You know, Hezbollah may be joining the assaults, the effort. And so there are major forces going up into the north reinforcing border towns for a short period. There's no way of knowing for certain it's going to happen, but people feel like it's a strong likelihood.

16 (10m 36s):
Smoke rises from southern Lebanon after Israeli strikes, sparking fears of a major escalation on another front.

0 (10m 49s):
I don't know if you can answer this question Allison. I don't know if anyone can answer this question, but I have to ask it, so I'm gonna ask it. What comes next? Do we have any idea?

11 (10m 58s):
None of us have any idea of what comes next after something like this. I mean, in any situation, we don't know what comes next, but there's going to be some sort of major change. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanya, it was a lot of sort of saber rattling and posturing. He says, we're going to change the face of the Middle East. I don't know how much he means that, but I do know that Israelis will not rest. We'll not let their government rest until something major changes. And there's a very different configuration of power and force than there was in the past.

0 (11m 42s):
Allison Kaplan, Sommer haz in Israel will ask why when we're back. On today explained,

PhRMA (11m 56s):
And here's your prescription. I know just the pharmacy to get this filled. Who are you? A pharmacy benefit manager, a middleman your insurer uses to decide which medicines you can get, what you pay, and sometimes even which pharmacy you should go to. Why Can't I go to a pharmacy in my neighborhood? Because I make more money When you go to a pharmacy I own. No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

Vox (12m 28s):
Hi, I'm Avishay Artsy and I'm one of the people whose names you hear in the credits of today Explained. I helped produce our recent series, Blame Capitalism. We got into how companies became solely focused on profit, how the bank bailout launched populist movements on the left and the right and how amidst the climate crisis and growing inequality, many of us lost faith in capitalism's ability to meet our basic needs. If you appreciate these kinds of deeply nerdy, thoroughly researched and rigorously fact-checked conversations, then please support our work at Vox dot com slash give. And thank you.

18 (13m 12s):
You are listening to today explained this

0 (13m 14s):
Past weekend, Zack Beauchamp wrote an article titled, why did Hamas Invade Israel for Vox? We asked him the same question this morning.

19 (13m 22s):
Hamas has been planning this for quite some time, maybe as long as a year, right? It, it's a militant group in the Gaza Strip, which is a very small area of about 2 million people surrounded by Israel and Egypt, populated by Palestinians. And Hamas has been in charge there since around 2006, 2007. And there are militant group, terrorist group that has killed a lot of Israelis and Israel has blockaded Gaza prevented goods from coming in except to a limited degree as a means of theoretically degrading Hamas. The problem is it doesn seem to have challenged their rule in any way. So Hamas has been in charge for what, around 16 years now.

19 (14m 3s):
And Israel has fought in multiple wars with them in the past.

20 (14m 5s):
On the holiest night of Ramadan, more violence on the streets of occupied East Jerusalem. Palestinian protestors threw water bottles, Israeli security forces used stun grenades.

19 (14m 16s):
There are a variety of different causes of those different flareups, but periodically it just seemed like violence would spike that it would go back down with significantly more casualties on the Palestinian side.

20 (14m 25s):
This man was beaten on the ground in front of us and then ushered away into the night with no attempt to detain him.

19 (14m 32s):
But it was the status quo that from the Israeli point of view, is something they could live with. Even if it's not ideal. This attack that Hamas had been planning for sometimes completely shattered that status quo. So we, we came here through a long, long, long road of conflict between Israel and and and the terrorist group Haleema. But ultimately it seems that Hamas was, was for reasons that are not yet fully clear, trying to break the status quo as it comes between Israel and Gaza.

0 (14m 60s):
And it's important to note here that Hamas is not Palestine and Benjamin Netanyahu is not the people of Israel. But let's talk about the people in power right now. What has the Netanyahu government's policy towards Gaza and the West Bank been up to this point?

19 (15m 21s):
The basic goal of the sort of broad center of the Israeli public is security. They want to be safe. They want to be free from terror and be able to live their lives as a very wealthy first world advanced democracy. The Palestinians create a significant problem for that 'cause in the West Bank. They functionally maintain an autocratic military rule over the Palestinian population,

21 (15m 43s):
Cold and cramped. This is the only way for these Palestinian workers to leave the occupied West Bank to get to their jobs In Israel,

22 (15m 51s):
This is the same thing every day. This is not alive in what country in the world does this take place? It only happens to us Palestinians here because of the occupation.

19 (15m 60s):
And in Gaza there's an enclave controlled by an anti-Semitic militant group that hates Israel and wants to destroy it that they have to pen in. So the question is how you handle those things. Netanyahu who's a very right-wing leader, has chosen an aggressive posture designed not just to maximize security, but to prevent the formation of any kind of Palestinian entity that could even come to a two-state agreement with Israel that could lead to something that could functionally lead to the end of Israel's territorial ambitions in the West Bank.

23 (16m 29s):
Netanyahu attempted to mobilize his hardcore base with two stunning promises. He will not support creation of a Palestinian state and he will continue to construct Jewish settlements in East Jerusalem.

19 (16m 43s):
And so in order to do that, he has pursued this very, very complex policy dance that has involved deepening Israeli control over the West Bank, in part by allowing for settlement expansion and in Gaza, both restricting the flow of goods and blockchaining it to prevent Hamas from arming itself, but also shoring up the foundations of the group, allowing some money to flow in, for example, in order to essentially make sure that it's not going to lose power. It seems bizarre and counterintuitive if you care about security, but if you're Netanyahu and you really believe that Israel is best served by saving off the world's push for a two-state diplomatic solution, it makes sense that you see Hamas as kind of an ally.

19 (17m 25s):
'cause you point to them and you say, we can't negotiate with them. It's this horrible situation. We're extremists on both sides benefit from the other's existence. This is not the most responsible government in Israel. And in fact, maybe one of the most irresponsible in the country's history. It, it's helpful to look at some of the concrete things that are being said. So defense minister Jof Glan, which By the way is one of the, he's one of the more responsible members of the current Israeli government has said this after the attack, quote unquote, I have ordered a complete siege on the Gaza Strip. There will be no electricity, no food, no fuel, everything is closed.

19 (18m 5s):
We are fighting human animals and we are acting accordingly. I mean, this is a violation of the law. War

24 (18m 12s):
Israel has cut off electricity, fuel, and water supplies to one of the most densely populated territories in the world. Hospitals are overwhelmed and unable to function without basic services.

19 (18m 24s):
As far as I understand it. You can't just cut off electricity, food, and fuel for an entire civilian population. And the use of the language human animals is terrifying. I mean, this is eliminationist language. This is, this is talking about justifying killing by dehumanizing your opponents.

25 (18m 41s):
What happened to us is complete destruction. We are the Al Boab family, and there were 150 people in this building. All of my family's homes have been destroyed.

19 (18m 50s):
And when you start talking like that, I mean things get really dangerous.

24 (18m 53s):
Entire apartment, buildings, homes, schools, and even a mosque weren't spared in the airstrikes. That's how

19 (18m 59s):
Hamas talks about Israelis. And look what they just did, right? Look at the, the mass slaughter of Israelis that they engaged in the, the tenor of rhetoric coming from the current Israeli government about what they're about to do in Gaza to add on to over 15 years of, of deep, deep, deep, deep pain for the Gaza's inflicted by periodic wars in the Israeli blockade. I mean, I I just shudder to think what's going to happen to innocent people in Gaza and, and innocent Israelis.

0 (19m 29s):
If the Netanyahu government isn't seriously considering a two-state solution, what have they been seriously considering? Ha have other deals been on the table?

19 (19m 38s):
There is no other deal that is acceptable to both Israelis and Palestinians. Right? Basically there are three potential solutions to the Israeli Palestinian conflict. The first is two states living side by side. The second is a one state solution in which Israel incorporates both the Palestinian Territories and dissolves its Jewish character by granting all Palestinians the right to vote in citizenship. And that's basically the end of Israel. So that's a non-starter for Israel and then could potentially lead to significant amounts of ethnic violence. The third solution is basically similar to the second, except Palestinians are not granted the right to vote and are not considered citizens.

19 (20m 19s):
This is the favored solution of the Israeli far right, which includes significant elements of Netanyahu's government and it, it would amount to apartheid, right? That's what it's, and it's one that we have been creeping towards, right? The current, the status quo is not exactly this 'cause it's not, there's no formal annexation. Some far right members of Netanyahu's government have been pushing for. And the government even itself attempted to implement at one point before backing off thanks to incentives from the US and and Arab states. So you had a right-wing government that was slowly over the course of time by expanding the size of settlements of the West Bank. By keeping up the Gaza blockade, by keeping Palestinians divided, was pushing the country towards a one state apartheid solution.

19 (21m 2s):
That's where we were headed. Right now, if things didn't change from 2021 to 2022, it looked like there might be some kind of possibility for change. Israel had a new government that contained elements from the right all the way to the left, including an Arab party that had dethroned Netanyahu and his far right allies. and it looked like they might have been moving towards, in theory something that would, that would be better than the status quo. The problem is that coalition itself was divided between different groups that have very, very different views of the Palestinians. And so they couldn't really take any action on that policy. The, the coalition fell apart.

19 (21m 42s):
We got Netanyahu back with an even more right-wing government.

0 (21m 45s):
So it's hard to know for certain, but tell me what we can be sure that Hamas was responding to.

19 (21m 51s):
We all have some theories and there are some things that are in their public statements, right? So the best sort or sort of clearest causal pathway for this has to do with conflict in the West Bank

17 (22m 4s):
Land for blood and blood for land. These huge Israeli enclaves in the West Bank, illegal under international law, make a future Palestinian state virtually impossible.

19 (22m 17s):
So for the past several months, tensions between Israel and West Bank Palestinians have been heating up considerably. Basically, there was an ongoing cycle of violence. The settlers, Israeli settlers emboldened by the far right government that was encouraging them and supporting them, ha had been engaging in a series of atrocities against Palestinians of the West Bank, killing them, burning their houses, scaring them, seizing their land, et cetera. There have been retaliatory responses by Palestinians and also independently launched attacks on settlers from Palestinians, which then leads to settler retaliation on its own. So it doesn really matter who started it, it just escalates and it, it's happening under a condition in what settlers feel like they can act with impunity.

19 (23m 2s):
This has led to Israel having to redeploy significant troops to the West Bank, and they have been conducting bloody raids, which have then infuriated Palestinians and sparked retaliation on its own.

17 (23m 15s):
Settler violence against Palestinians is now increasingly common.

19 (23m 20s):
So you get a, an ex an exceedingly violent situation going on there where things look like they're getting worse. And this means two things. First, Palestinians are angry and angry at Israel, which gives Hamas an opportunity to capitalize by showing itself to be the force of resistance to the Israeli occupation. And second and crucially, it means the Gaza border isn't defended in the way that it typically is because Israel's pulled so many of its active duty forces into the West Bank.

15 (23m 48s):
Gunshots echoing through the Janine refugee camp, smoke billowing into the sky. The Israel Defense forces launched their largest West Bank operation in two decades since the second in the father or uprising in the early two thousands. So

19 (24m 3s):
That means Haleema has an opportunity and one of the things that you hear is a very good piece in the Washington Post about this is, is empty guard towers and, and military posts that were unmanned at the border because people were doing things to secure settlers in their activities in the West Bank. It's a striking failure of the Israeli government for basically stoking this kind of conflict in the West Bank and the current government's policy. And for Hamas it was this golden opportunity to breach the border and that's what they did to horrible, horrible results. So it has to do really, I would say more than anything else, with both the, the state of anger and frustration among Palestinians, which is not new, it's been going for a long time, but has spiked.

19 (24m 43s):
And also with the vulnerability on the Israeli side and the political chaos inside Israel, which has distracted it and led to Israeli defense officials warning publicly repeatedly that the secur, that security was being endangered by the government pushing confrontational domestic policies at home that we're dividing the population against itself. So it, it's this kind of perfect storm.

0 (25m 11s):
Zack Beauchamp is the author of the forthcoming book, the Reactionary Spirit. you can also read him at Vox dot com. Our show today was produced by Halima Shaw and Avi Shai Artsy. We were edited by Amina Al Fact, checked by Laura Bullard and Amanda Lewellyn, mixed by Patrick Boyd and Rob Byers. I'm Sean Ramas firm. This is today explained.