0 (0s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. There's a story that has preoccupied Jeffrey Goldberg, the editor in chief of the Atlantic magazine for more than 10 years in 1995 in Zambia and Africa, a man was shot and killed. We don't know for sure who shot him. This man was alleged to be an animal poacher, but no one ever proved that he was an ABC news crew in Zambia was doing a story about a pair of American conservationists and filmed the killing and afterward someone disposed of this man's body in a lagoon, no one was ever charged with the killing.

1 (33s):
What bothers me is the idea that somebody was murdered in a remote part of Zambia, remote part of Africa. And no one cares. It doesn't seem right as my point. It just doesn't seem right that this happened.

0 (50s):
And also Jeff thinks he knows who did it coming up,

Citi (1m 1s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action that together cities committed $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at citi.com/e S G.

5 (1m 45s):
Welcome to the everyday hotel. You'll be on the second floor and your other room. We'll be on the 14th.

6 (1m 50s):
Oh, wait. We asked for connecting rooms. These are 12 floors apart.

5 (1m 53s):
We tried ma'am but technically they're only 11 floors apart. We don't have a 13th floor.

6 (1m 58s):
We can't be 11 floors away from our kids. I

7 (2m 1s):
Don't see a problem Stewart,

8 (2m 4s):
When you want separate rooms, but not that separate. It matters where you stay. Only Hilton offers confirmed connecting rooms at the time of booking Hilton for the stay

0 (2m 26s):
Today explained we're back the book where the crawdads sing has sold more than 15 million copies just became a must see at least on an airplane movie. And all of this is interesting to Jeffrey Goldberg because the author of that book is Delia Owens. One half of the conservationists duo that ABC news was profiling during the 1995, killing Jeff you're reporting from that Delia's husband mark and his son, Chris were present the night of the killing. Tell me about how this American couple ended up in.

1 (2m 60s):
They had early in life decided that they were going to go save the animals in Africa. They were naturalists. They moved first to Botswana. It was very young conservationists and they wrote a book out of their experience, their cry of the Kalahari, which became quite popular. They ran into trouble with the butts, Swan and government. They were protesting the fencing of various planes that were stopping animal migrations and had alienated the government. There. I have no way of judging whether they were right or wrong. Chances are, they were partially right. Maybe partially wrong. I don't know, but they were kicked out of Botswana. And then they looked for another country to go to, to continue their work. They really did feel, and you get this in their writing, that they were on a mission to save the animals, which is a very great mission.

1 (3m 45s):
They went to Zambia, they found this park north Luangwa very remote Zambia. First of all, is not on the main track of the Eastern and Southern Africa. It's sort of a tertiary country in terms of safaris and all the rest, but it has great wildlife and these very, very remote parks. And in this particular park, north of Longo, there was a poaching problem, huge problem with, with, for elephants and rhino also. And they set themselves up there and eventually over time, Mark Owens in particular kind of became the ruler of this vast swath of Zambia. I mean, this park is about 2,400 square miles and the, and the outskirts of it are also, you know, wilderness.

1 (4m 27s):
So it's, it's quite remote. And Mark Owens and Delia became kind of the king and queen of this region. Over time, mark got more and more militant in his efforts to fight poaching and would fly nighttime missions. He kept talking about Vietnam. He had never served in Vietnam, but he kept in books and other talks talking about it as if it were Vietnam. They were throwing cherry bombs and other things out of planes at night, burning the tents of poaching groups. And as things got darker and darker, it started claiming to other people in the region that they were killing poachers, that the Scouts under Mark Owens, his command were killing poachers, Delia refers to this and a couple of their books and she expresses ambivalence about it.

1 (5m 18s):
But she was part of this operation. She co ran this operation with Mark Owens and eventually I think what happened to put it bluntly is they became so enamored of it that they thought, you know what? We need a lot of publicity for this. So that's when they invite ABC news. And, and that is the beginning of the end of their operation there because what they didn't realize, I guess you can sort of get a, I mean, this happens often, I guess in life, you become convinced of your own rightness, your own righteousness even, and you don't understand how this might be perceived by outsiders, but what outsiders could see a white American couple establishing themselves as the leaders or rulers of this vast track of Zambia ordering government employees to do their bidding operating without any oversight and going further and further in the story.

1 (6m 16s):
When I first heard about it, it almost instantly struck me as a kind of heart of darkness story.

0 (6m 30s):
We were say money coming from

1 (6m 32s):
Well, they had support from the Frankfurt zoological society, which is a very good organization. And still today actually is the NGO that helps the Zambian government run the park and keep it safe. They had a very big fundraising operation in America. They are very, very good at publicity. They were very, very good at romanticizing their work. I mean, the work of someone who works in conservation and anti-poaching is actually quite boring in some ways it's, there's a lot of, there's a lot of science. There's a lot of environmental studies. There's a lot of community activism, community building, Marc and Delia leaned heavily when they were raising funds and doing publicity into the kind of more, let's say Rambo ish aspects of this flying night patrols, inserting game Scouts into the Bush battling machine gun, carrying poaching gangs.

1 (7m 25s):
And, and I'm not saying that those things didn't happen, but it's much more effective as a fundraising mechanism. I think to go to American audiences on American tours and say, look, we're actually battling evil out here and we're risking our lives. And they were always talking about how they were being threatened with kidnapping and killing and that sort of thing. It's a lot more effective than saying actually what we're doing is we're trying to build a beekeeping cooperative for the villages on the outskirts of the park so that the people have gainful employment. And so they don't poach

0 (7m 56s):
Clear. Jeff was poaching a real problem.

1 (8m 0s):
Yes, there definitely was slaughter of elephants in this park and many, many, many other parks.

0 (8m 7s):
Okay. So this was not some white savior and we're running around and nothing's really going on. This was an absolute issue.

1 (8m 14s):
It's white savior where the white savior was for a while, at least helping to protect some of the elephants. Some of the rhinos in this park don't get me wrong. They weren't the only people doing it. By the way, there are quote unquote white Zambians who are in that area who are doing this for many years in a much more quiet way. People who would run safari companies and made the anti-poaching part of their efforts. No, no, no, no. The, the, the, the, the park wasn't well run, it wasn't well protected. And there was a need for this. This is not a question of whether anti-poaching is a worthwhile thing. Of course it is. It's a question of doing it without oversight and employing more and more violence in order to achieve your extensible goals.

1 (8m 55s):
The Zambian government was not effective in dealing with it. And at the end of the day, the Owens is walked into something that was akin to a vacuum. They took advantage of that vacuum to build their program. And let's just say in non-democratic way,

0 (9m 13s):
How did the Africans that you spoke to feel about the ons? This,

1 (9m 17s):
You know, it depends there game Scouts were very loyal to them. I spoke to some of them, there are game Scouts who felt that. And I have testimony in the original piece about this from game Scouts, who said that in the course of their training, quote unquote, under the leadership of Mark Owens and his son, Christopher Owens, they were beaten as a matter of course. And so they had resentments in the villages and areas surrounding the park. The Owens has had a very negative or developed over time, a very negative reputation for brutality. One of the white Zambians who I spoke to is enormous critic of the Owens is said in essence, that their attitude was Africa is a wonderful place.

1 (9m 59s):
It's pity about all the people. Their mentality was that what made Africa special was the large mammals and that the people of Africa where the people in the way,

0 (10m 14s):
Okay, Zambians have mixed feelings about the Owens, but in the United States, they are getting a lot of attention. And that's how we get to the night when someone kills an alleged poacher while an ABC news camera is running. Tell me about that night

1 (10m 29s):
On the night in question Mark Owens, flu and ABC camera, man producer, and his son, Chris Owens, who is then helping him in this operation out to an unknown location. We don't know where it was exactly in the park, on the outskirts of the park, to what they said was a, an abandoned poacher cam at a certain point in the night, a unidentified person never, never learned the identity of this person came into the camp and was shocked

10 (11m 3s):
Early in the morning, the scout discovers an abandoned campsite, lying on the ground are shotgun shells.

1 (11m 11s):
This person who is Sean, we can't really tell it's a black person, but we don't know anything about this man's identity. Other than that, he's allegedly a poacher coming into this camp is on the ground is still moving. We can visibly see that he's moving. So he's wounded. He's not dead. Then there are three more shots from off-camera.

10 (11m 30s):
Our camera's begin rolling again. After a shot is fired at the returning trespasser,

1 (11m 35s):
The chairman doesn't pivot to show us who, at least in the, in what we saw on ABC, we don't see who is firing, but the bullets are fired into this body. There's live body on the ground, helpless person. And then the body stops moving. The person is obviously dead. The ABC narrator Meredith Vieira implies that the person is dead and makes a broad sweeping statement about this.

10 (12m 1s):
These are the cultures are often left, where they fall for the animals to meet conservation morality after.

1 (12m 9s):
And that's the last we see of this. My investigation 13, 14 years ago learned that the shots from off-camera were fired by Chris Owens. The person who told me that was the ABC cameraman. Chris Everson is a south African cameraman, very prominent journalist. It was never reported by ABC that a white American visitor to Zambia. I mean, it was on a tourist visa, the son of Mark Owens and the stepson of Delia Owens fired the shots. Chris Owens disappeared from the camp. Witnesses told me after that and was sent out to America. He's never been back to Zambia, but Chris Everson said that it was Chris Owens who fired the original shots and the fatal shots.

1 (12m 51s):
And since then the Zambian government and the Zambian government, by the way, the authorities conducted an initial investigation. They came to the same conclusion. They did not talk to press Everson, but they talked to other game Scouts who said that? Yes, indeed. It was this Chris Owens who fired the fatal shots. And they have been ever since then seeking to interview, not only Chris Owens, but Mark Owens and Delia Owens, Delia Owens was back in the camp at the time. One more Baroque, but relevant point about all of this is that afterward in the cleanup and cover up of this killing Mark Owens flew his helicopter back to the site where he had dropped this crew off.

1 (13m 34s):
And according to witnesses put the body of this alleged poacher. And again, of course, we don't know that this person was a poacher or not. We have no proof. We have no sense of his identity. Put the body in a cargo net, attached it to the helicopter, flew away and drop the body off in a lagoon, just dropped it into the water. And it, nobody has ever been found. Nobody knows where this happened. I can't stress enough how remote these locations are, how far away from cities or towns or even law enforcement. So a lot of this happened in circumstances that make it very easy to both kill someone and then cover up the killing and then make the body disappear,

0 (14m 19s):
Coming up, the body disappears. And so does Delia Owens, how she got from the Zambian wilderness into Reese Witherspoon's book club. This is advertiser content brought to you by AbbVie.

11 (14m 38s):
We're always trying to understand how do we stop disease, right? Disease comes in and we try to stop it. That's how we practice medicine. An interesting thought would be, what if we actually didn't get disease? What if we prevented disease? Hi, my name is Howard Jacob. I'm a vice-president at AbbVie. I had the genomic research center and I also had our data integration across R and D

12 (15m 6s):
Better. Medicine starts with better information. So Howard and AbbVie have been studying a collection of more than 1 million human genomes to advance our understanding of disease.

11 (15m 15s):
It's a large amount of data. Your DNA extended end to end from all of your hundred trillion cells would go to the sun and back 666.5 times.

12 (15m 26s):
All of that genetic information will have major implications for the future of health care. Helping doctors tailor treatment to every patient's needs.

11 (15m 34s):
For many genes, there are tests where you can actually say, oh, this is the dose you should take. This is when you should take it. And this is why you're taking it. It opens the door for prescribing medications differently and at different doses for each into the drawer,

12 (15m 48s):
Their work is already saving lives, but genetic researchers are far from satisfying.

11 (15m 54s):
I just know that we can do more. I know we can enable physicians to practice medicine better. I know we can able patients to live healthier lives. I know we can develop better therapies and we just have to do it

12 (16m 6s):
To learn more about how AbbVie is shaping the future of medicine. Visit here now.abb, V I E

13 (16m 16s):
Brain fog, anxiety, depression, according to social media, you can cure all of them by eating

14 (16m 23s):
Unsurprisingly social media. Isn't exactly right, but there is some really exciting new science showing that what you eat can affect your mental health that what's going on in your gut literally changes your brain chemistry.

13 (16m 34s):
And that's exactly what we're getting to the bottom of on this week's episode of gastropod, the podcast that looks at food through the lens of science and history, I'm NYCLA Twitter,

14 (16m 44s):
And I'm Cynthia Graber. And this episode, we go deep to sort out the science from the social media hype. It's a story that involves some very sad mice and a cutting edge, us military experiment, but it's also news. We can all use.

13 (16m 57s):
Should you be eating to combat anxiety, depression, and more follow gastropod and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (17m 8s):
Did. They explained we're back with Jeff Goldberg editor of the Atlantic. Jeff, how did you find out about this very complicated story in the first place?

1 (17m 17s):
Somebody I know who is involved in this and the universe of African conservation mentioned to me, you know, a couple of years after this was actually aired on ABC nationally. So have you ever seen the turning point documentary on mark and Delia Owens? And I said, no. And I got ahold of this is isn't the video cassette era. This is before the internet. And I watched the video cassette and I couldn't believe it. I mean, my, the person who informed me about it gave me the right moral framing for it. So I was primed. Don, understand this as a morally dubious exercise, opposed to, oh, look, the cameraman got a great shot of a guy getting killed. So I'm watched it. And I just started going down the road and in traditional reporting methodology of trying to find people who knew things after a certain point, you run out of people to talk to in the United States, there were a couple of professional hunters I talked to who shared with me some, some information.

1 (18m 14s):
There were ex us officials who had some information, people in the state department, but general information, nothing confidential. And eventually you just realize you have to go to Zambia. So I probably made my first trip there 15 years ago. The good thing about getting to Zambia was that the Owens is, were well-known and quite controversial.

0 (18m 35s):
So even though they're not charged the Owens all leave the African continent, tell me what happens, who helps and how do they get out and where do they go?

1 (18m 44s):
You know, what happens is the turning point. Documentaries broadcast somebody, the state department, someone is alert or alive to the fact that this is controversial. And that, again, by the way, if this was the age of Twitter, they probably would have been arrested the next day.

0 (19m 3s):
You think so? Huh?

1 (19m 4s):
I do. I do because the Zambian authorities would have found out right away about the broadcast, but they did not find out about it right away. The us embassy, I believed helped encourage them to leave and say, you know what, guys, this is going to get hot and weird and you should get out of here. I quote a former American ambassador, the American ambassador at the time saying that in the article saying that, you know, he feared that Mark Owens was going to get arrested and thrown into Zambian jail and then raped and be given aids. So it was his responsibility as an American official to get the guy out of Zambia. So the, the whole, the whole system there was geared to believing that the Owens is, were righteous victims of some kind of either media malfeasance or Zambian corrupt government malfeasance.

1 (19m 54s):
And so they got out, they left all their equipment there and the Franklin zoological society to possession of it. And I think uses some of it to this day to good ends from what I can tell, but the Owens has got out, went to Idaho and we're leading a fairly quiet life up in Idaho. When I finally got up there, I don't know, 13 years ago, they wouldn't talk to me, but I finally had to drive up there and try to look for them. And I did, I did find daily Owens and we did have a, a brief interview conversation, by the way, I should say it wasn't completely benign and quiet situation for them in Idaho. They came into Idaho and sort of the same way that they came into Zambia, which is to say they immediately positioned themselves as experts in bear conservation and started, started making, started making demands of the community.

1 (20m 46s):
And I there's a, in the stories, one of the neighbors who said that mark came in here, I thinking that it was Africa and he could just tell us what to do, but this isn't Africa, it's Idaho. You know, the long and short of it is, is that they have this fairly quiet life up in Idaho. They know they can't return to Zambia because as I shown the Zambian authorities would very much like to interview them, interrogate them based on the videotape, the ABC videotape. So they're not going back. And then Delia over time develops this. There's always second chances in American life, right? And so she starts as a novelist in her sixties and writes this book where the crawdads saying that, interestingly, amazingly, however you want to describe it becomes the biggest novel of 20 18, 20 19.

15 (21m 37s):
The crawdads sing by Delia Owens. It is sold 1.8 million copies and CR is currently number one on the New York times bestseller list.

1 (21m 45s):
Reese Witherspoon buys it

16 (21m 47s):
So excited to announce the September book club pick, which I just love this book. It is called where the crawdads sing

1 (21m 54s):
And it becomes this big movie. It was, I

17 (21m 56s):
Feel so invisible.

18 (21m 59s):
I wonder if I'm here at all.

1 (22m 1s):
And so she has her new career,

19 (22m 4s):
All the numbers all the weeks on the bestseller list, it is exciting, but the most important part is to write a story. That means something.

0 (22m 13s):
Can I ask you about the moment you, you, I don't know if it was a two and two equals four moment, but the moment you realize this woman on whose trail you've been for many years has written a book that is in Reese Witherspoon's book club. What the hell was that? Like,

1 (22m 28s):
It started with one or two emails from people who remember my new Yorker piece from 2010, who said, Hey, I don't know if you know this, but Delia Owens is as on the New York times bestseller list. And so, you know, piqued my curiosity. I went out and got the book, and this is the boat. The strange part is the book is kind of an around Polish in, in a certain way. There are all these like hints and illusions to earlier dark events in Zambia. I mean, spoiler alert to the extent that there's anybody in America who doesn't know what this book is about, but the book is about a strange, awkward loner.

1 (23m 9s):
Naturalist's Southern girl who commits a righteous described as righteous murder in what would in, in the African context is known as the Bush and what in the American context will be known as the wilderness or the swamps or whatever. And I'm reading it and I'm going, oh my goodness. And by the way, makes references to people that they knew in Zambia. I mean, the name of the jailhouse cat is Sunday justice, which is the name of their cook and aid in their camp in Northern Longo guy. I met and I come across that, I'm like, oh my goodness.

1 (23m 49s):
Like I almost felt like at that point she was, I almost not to make this self-referential, but I thought she was trolling me from a distance kind of way. It was like, why are you planting all these clues? Why are you doing this? Maybe some of it happened at the level of the unconscious. I don't, I don't know, but the story has very many echoes of their experience in, in, in Zambia. But when I was in Zambia last month, two months ago, I guess, you know, I spoke to various law enforcement officials there and they consider her a material witness. And, you know, they want to understand whether she's an accessory after the fact what her role was in the camp, what her role, if anything, was in involved in helping mark allegedly cover up the crime Delia.

1 (24m 34s):
And obviously mark are shown no interest whatsoever in helping the Zambian authorities and the Zambian authorities have a hard time getting to them. And I mean, I met some very, very creative, ambitious detectives associated with this case in Zambia, but they were incredibly frustrated because they can't do the investigation the way they want to do the investigation.

0 (24m 52s):
At the end of the day, Jeff, what would you like to happen here? What do you think justice would look like is just as what you want or do you just want to keep chasing the Owens is around the world?

1 (25m 3s):
No, I don't. I don't. And by the way, I mean, I had done my thing 12 years ago, wrote my piece, put it out in the world. Thank you very much onto the next thing. You know, I'll tell you what bothers me. What bothers me is the idea that somebody was murdered in a remote part of Zambia, remote part of Africa. And no one cares. I would like to know who the person was. And it was a male it's grown male, probably had a family disappeared into the Bush. If the body was dumped in a lagoon and it meant and means it was eaten by crocodiles, it doesn't seem right.

1 (25m 45s):
Is my point. It just doesn't seem right that this happened. And I include ABC news in the category of people who have done wrong things here, because they were just out looking for some violence, right. And they know what happened. And Chris Everson, the ABC news cameraman, his conscious obviously was bothering him. When I called him in South Africa, he told me what happened. He didn't say no comment. It didn't say I have no idea what you're title. We didn't lie told me the truth. He said, this is a terrible thing that happened. And I saw it almost like he was waiting for years for somebody to call him, just think it's wrong.

1 (26m 26s):
And I know that some combination of mark, Chris and Delia Owen know exactly what happened to this person and they know where the body was taken. And that just doesn't seem right.

0 (26m 45s):
Today's episode was produced by Tori Domingas. It was edited by Matthew collect. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Paul Robert mousy. I'm Noel king it's today explained

KiwiCo (27m 23s):
Looking for a great hands-on gift for the curious kids in your life, that tinker who can't stop exploring building and taking things apart. Kiwi COEs delivers super cool science technology and art projects for kids of all ages straight to your door every month, choose from nine different subscription lines, focused on subjects like engineering, art, and design science of cooking, and more, every crate delivered has everything you need to complete the project in there. Seriously fun. Get 50% off your first month on any subscription line at QE code.com/vox, 50 that's Kiwi code.com/v O X five zero.