3 (0s):
Another day another opportunity to go to QE co.com explained and take a look at their fun engaging creative projects for kids of all ages and to try them out for free key because trying to make learning about science and engineering technology art math super fun for the young ones kiwi co.com / explained. Whistle blowing is a big deal in the United States. It's such a big deal that it's enshrined in our laws even still it can be really hard to file a whistleblower complaint.

3 (45s):
It looks like this current whistleblower had to jump through hoops to make sure the information reach the right people today the New York Times reported that Adam Schiff the head of the house intelligence committee got a preview version of The Whistleblower complaint not a full copy, but some kind of outline not long after the story broke President Trump was asked about it during a press conference with the president of Finland.

1 (1m 9s):
So The Whistleblower according to this report met with a member of Staff of Adam shift staff. You've got two right there. You know it. I hate to say it's a New York Times. I can't believe they wrote it your response to maybe they getting better you response to the fact that that happened and the shift may have learned some of what the Whistleblower new prior to the completely. I think it's a Handle that he knew before I go a step further. I think he probably helped write it. Okay, that's what the word is. And I think it's I give a lot of respect for the New York Times of putting it out just happened as I'm walking up here. They handed it to me and I said to Mike I said, whoa, that's something that's big stuff. That's a big story. He knew long before and he helped write it too.

1 (1m 51s):
It's a scam. It's a

3 (1m 52s):
scam a scam. The president of the United States is once again questioning the legitimacy of the whistleblowers report a report that was completely corroborated by the White House's own transcript of the call President Trump made with Ukrainian president solinsky. But this time the president saying the Democratic head of the house intelligence committee helped write The Whistleblower complaint compare that to what the acting Director of National Intelligence said about the complaint in his testimony last week.

1 (2m 22s):
I think the Whistleblower did the right thing. I think he followed the law every step of the way.

3 (2m 27s):
At this point we don't know if McGuire was aware that the Whistleblower had also reached out to house intelligence about this complaint, please. Oh you cover politics box at this point. What do we know the Whistleblower did how many different ways do this whistleblower try and take this information up the chain. We know the Whistleblower reached out to house Intel based on the New York Times report from today. And then we also know that prior to that The Whistleblower had reached out to the top attorney at the CIA who wound up passing the complaint along to Folks at the White House as well as doj. So the CIA is lawyer took the whistleblowers complaint to the person the whistleblowers complaint was about effectively.

3 (3m 12s):
Yes. She took it to somebody at the White House who works in the lawyer's office there basically to consult them and try to figure out if there was a reasonable basis for this complaint and that does follow policies. That wasn't totally crazy for her to do that. But as a result people at the White House were informed kind of early on as this complaint was circulating that something was being brought up against the president like the president knew that this was circulating at the time. It's a little bit unclear. It was more just officials. They're new, but presumably since it was in the organization we can assume that other folks there did too and what happens with it.

3 (3m 53s):
They were in the process of evaluating the complaint. So the deputy White House counsel who was looking at it consulted with the CIA attorney and they brought it to other people at doj to try to get their take on it. And so the information was basically being passed along these different channels and evaluated for how credible it was and we know that eventually the doj decides not to act on this. What's the Whistleblower doing at this point is The Whistleblower know that this has been presented to the doj and the White House The Whistleblower does find out that the White House Knows about this information and it's kind of unclear how that gets transmitted. But the person does and becomes alarmed and decides to proceed with this other route of filing a formal whistleblower complaint to get these concerns heard and this is inside the intelligence Community.

3 (4m 44s):
Yeah, that's inside to the Inspector General of the intelligence Community. But in the second version when we get the actual report, the Inspector General communicates it to the House and Senate intelligence committees. And now that we've heard that shift may have already known what was coming it all sort of makes sense that he pushed so hard to get the

1 (5m 1s):
complaint at the end of the day. We're going to need to get this complaint and we are going to get this complaint and we will I think expose those who are trying to stand in the

3 (5m 11s):
way and I think that's where we saw the conflict between how the acting Director of National Intelligence handled everything and house Democrats wanted things to play out. This is why there's a big controversy and the hearing right last week right?

1 (5m 26s):
Let me ask you this. Do you think it's a proprietary that you go to a department run by someone who's the subject of the complaint to get advice or who is a subject of the complaint or implicated in the complaint for advice as to whether you should provide that complaint to Congress did that conflict of interest concern you Mr. Chairman when I saw this report and complaint immediately, I knew that this was a serious matter. It came to me and I just thought it would be prudent. Well, I'm not sure. I'm just asking if the conflict of interest concern to you that well sir.

1 (6m 6s):
I have to work with what I've got. And that is the office of legal counsel within the executive

3 (6m 11s):
branch. So McGwire is saying that he had to go through the executive branch shift doesn't like that. Do we have any idea how the Whistleblower was feeling during all this based on the report. It seemed like The Whistleblower wanted to do things kind of internally through the CIA, but then just got really startled. By the way that that process was going and what made the second process work was the first didn't the lack of direct immediate involvement of the White House the second one. I think it work more effectively largely because of this communication to Congress and I think once Congress knew about the existence of a complaint you had pressure. Building from house Democrats and you had all these press reports come out about you know, some kind of amorphous thing that was happening that ultimately led to everything being released.

3 (7m 0s):
And that's the end of the story right? Everyone totally respected the whistleblowers work and America lived happily ever after not exactly President Trump has since really gone all out against The Whistleblower, I think first going after this person by calling them a partisan hack and now by trying to basically unmask them and say we need to figure out who this person is. I want to know who's accusing me. I deserve to know

1 (7m 28s):
well, we're trying to find out about a whistleblower when you have a whistleblower reports things that were incorrect as you know, and you probably know have figured it out the statement. I made to the president of Ukraine could man a nice man knew was perfect. It was

3 (7m 44s):
perfect and all of this is especially inappropriate because of the Legends Community whistleblower protection act that passed in 1998. What's the intelligence Community whistleblower protection act of 1998 say that basically lays out the process for anyone who's interested in filing a whistleblower complaint and since then it's been added onto to kind of protect whistleblowers from potential retaliation that they could face for coming forward. Okay, has it been effective at doing that? It hasn't exactly been effective and that's partly because of the way that the law works. So if you are retaliated against as a whistleblower, so if your manager or tries to demote you or tries to take away your security clearance, it's kind of on you to fight back.

3 (8m 34s):
So the recourse you have is to file a complaint about the retaliation. Okay, but there isn't anything that kind of prevents that person from going after you in the first place. Hmm. So I think the tough thing is the onus on The Whistleblower to protect themselves ultimately if something You know, I was built that way. I mean, I think it's probably because in a lot of these law enforcement agencies, there's a huge emphasis on loyal teacher country kind of loyalty to these institutions over loyalty to a lot of the individuals that might be, you know, kind of working on these secrets. Yeah, and I wonder if that applies to loyalty to the president especially because the president has made this outward sort of campaign to figure out who the Whistleblower is if President Trump does manage to figure out who the Whistleblower is Where they work right now where they live right now.

3 (9m 31s):
How could he use that information? He could probably use it to kind of figure out who else is informing The Whistleblower. What are this person sources and how can I try to use that information to cover up other things that I maybe don't want people to know so its very valuable information. I think for his own purposes of trying to control this narrative, but I think it could also be very harmful to this person and you know their professional future by saying I want to know who this person is by clearly planting that flag and who knows getting information not getting information is the president violating just the spirit of The Whistleblower protection act or the actual letter of The Whistleblower protection act right now.

3 (10m 14s):
He's just violating the spirit of the law and I think the biggest concern is that this could deter other people from coming forward that if you are interested in being a whistleblower now, you're going to be scared of coming forward because you might get exposed. And that's something that came up when the acting Director of National Intelligence testified in front of the house intelligence committee, sir. I'm worried that government employees and contractors may see how important this situation has played out and decide it's not worth putting themselves on the line McGuire said

1 (10m 51s):
congresswoman. I think that's a fair assessment. I don't disagree with what you've

3 (10m 56s):
said. So how is Congress responding to the president's violation of the spirit of The Whistleblower protection act I think in the same way that we've seen Republicans respond to a ton of things that the president has done in the past. We're just hearing a lot of Silence there is really not much being said to push back on him and to suggest that what he's trying to do is wrong. The rare example that we have is Chuck Grassley who's a Republican senator from Iowa who is said we should respect these whistleblower protections. We should follow the kind of the process of Figuring out how valid these allegations are and give these the weight that they deserve and what about Democrats Democrats in general are appalled by what Trump is doing and definitely are trying to fight to protect the Whistleblower in this instance.

3 (11m 46s):
The house intelligence committee is supposed to meet with the Whistleblower at some point and I think the concern about preserving anonymity has been basically the chief concern of that

1 (11m 56s):
meeting.

3 (12m 2s):
So we still don't know who the Whistleblower is and it seems like the Whistleblower would prefer it remained that way but the whistleblowers legal team has been out there talking right the whistleblowers attorney sent a letter Saturday notifying the acting Director of National Intelligence of serious concerns, we have regarding our clients personal safety. It alleges that certain individuals are offering a $50,000 Bounty for the whistleblowers identity and sites President Trump's own comments. Right but the legal team has been out there as a more public face advocating in favor of this person's right to remain anonymous and also the argument that they're making about Trump really abusing his power to try to get information about arrival before 2020.

3 (12m 55s):
The lawyer representing the whistleblowers says he's worried about his clients safety looking back at whistleblowers past. That's pretty much par for the course more on that in a minute on today

1 (13m 7s):
explained.

3 (13m 21s):
Hello. Hey Desmond. Is Sean from today explained? How are you? I'm good. Your mom just told me that you got a new key, we co-create and another people can do the same if they go to Kiwi co.com / explained where they can learn more about Kiko's projects for kids of all ages and try them out for free. What is your new crate? It's a tradition. Oh a trebuchet. What's a trebuchet for the kids at home? Who don't know. It's like an ancient catapult type thing. Oh my gosh. You got a catapult in the mail. I guess they said it was very dangerous. Ha ha ha cool. So like what are the materials you're building this trebuchet out of like some string and Great, and once it's built, what will you launch out of it ping-pong balls?

3 (14m 16s):
Haha. Cool. Have you have you sought out any Targets for your trebuchet and ping pong ball at this point the boxes? I could knock over though. You think your parents are on board with you knocking over the boxes? Yeah. It's one of my boxes. So I'm sure it will be fine. You're very considerate Desmond. Okay. Thanks. So Allison, you just wrote a book about whistleblowers. Is that for real? That is for Real shot? It's for real. Yeah, imagine if the book about whistle blowing you've been working on for ever published the day Nancy Pelosi announced she was opening up an impeachment inquiry into President Trump based on a whistle blower report.

3 (15m 4s):
It's only because it was delayed by about two years. So the fact that I took so long to do it has has been a positive thing if that happened to you. You would be Professor Alison Stanger author of whistleblowers honesty in America from Washington to Trump. I've actually been working on it for seven years. If you can believe that it's sort of sad it went through five full manuscript iterations had to cut hundreds of pages. It was really kind of the book manuscript from hell, but what-what. Am I allowed to say that on a podcast? You could say fucking hell, I'm not gonna do that. I asked her what inspired her to write about whistle blowing in the first place whistleblowing is really about as American as apple pie.

3 (15m 51s):
We passed the world's first whistleblower Protection Law in 1778. And that is a response to a man by the name of essec Hopkins Hopkins was the first Commodore of the u.s. Navy and he was removed from his post for torturing British prisoners of War There Were Ten Sailors on Hopkins ship that filed the complaint to of the 10. There are two men by the name of Marvin and Shaw had The Misfortune of Being Rhode Islanders, which meant Hopkins was a Rhode Islander. He could retaliate against them. So he had them immediately thrown in jail for libel, but congress intervened not only with the Whistleblower Protection Law, but they also paid Marvin and Shaw's legal fees they legislated.

3 (16m 37s):
That all the records should be made available to the public without those records being made public. We would have never known about this incident. So even in these early stages of the Republic Congress had a sense that we need to have some sort of safety measure for people to report abuses of power. It's interesting to read the original language which really conveys the sense that you have an obligation. If you're a public servant to report wrongdoing whenever you see it, I can even read you a passage from the law that conveys that it's kind of in the stilted English of the time but I think it's really easy. It says that it is the duty of all persons in the service of the United States as well as all other inhabitants thereof to give the earliest information to Congress or any other proper authority of any misconduct frauds or misdemeanors committed by any officers or persons in the service of these states.

3 (17m 32s):
So that's basically saying if you see it as an American you're obligated to report it. So what's the best example of this we have after Commodore Hopkins in 1778. The obvious one is Daniel Ellsberg. Mr. Pentagon Papers. Yeah, Daniel Ellsberg revealed an Administration that was lying to the American people about how the Vietnam War was going. I can

1 (17m 57s):
no longer cooperate. I'm stealing this information from the American

3 (18m 1s):
public and obviously when the American people are kept in the dark democracy cannot function properly. You have to keep some secrets for national security purposes. I don't mean to downplay the difficulty of navigating that potential tension, but obviously if the American people can't see what their government is doing self government becomes impossible and that one like Watergate which came shortly thereafter involves a whistleblower going to the Press which makes them different from the current situation. How are they similar the similarity between Watergate and the current? Tuition is the implication of the Attorney General the Attorney General. The United States is supposed to enforce impartial Justice and in both the water get situation and the current situation the Attorney General is really a partisan serving the president rather than the cause of the rule of law.

3 (18m 54s):
So that's one thing that's similar between the Watergate situation and impeachment and this current situation but pales in comparison to the rhetoric and vitriol and the complete misunderstanding of the president's role as somehow serving the Trump brand rather than the US Constitution. I don't think you see that in the Watergate years. In fact part of what went on in Watergate is things were kept secret and when they were exposed they were so embarrassing and shameful that Nixon resigned what you have in the current situation is a President Who Shameless The lawyer representing this whistleblower in this current situation is worried about the Whistleblower safety.

3 (19m 38s):
What's the worst thing that's ever happened to an American whistleblower that we know of there's all sorts of things examples may be the best one is bunny Greenhouse. Her life wasn't destroyed because she's too strong a person but she's someone who blew the whistle on waste Fraud and Abuse and Halliburton contracts under the Bush Administration and she was a Department of Defense principle for reviewing Contracting. She exposed what she thought was an immense conflict of interest. She was retaliated against she lost her job. She she was actually injured in her office because someone set up a booby trap to intimidate her. What what was the booby trap?

3 (20m 20s):
I feel like I gotta ask. He's some kind of trip wire him in her office that she tripped over is how I understand it. Yeah, but I mean, there's all there's all sorts of other examples of this kind of retaliation. Some of you don't even hear about because the standard pad and really in the intelligence Community is for these complaints never to see the light of day in part simply because the intelligence Community is based on secrecy. They have to keep secrets and legitimately. So to keep our country safe. So the very idea of revealing Secrets is anathema to that culture. So the standard pen and you would see is that the complaint would get squelched rather than being turned over to Congress in this instance by some miracle.

3 (21m 2s):
It happened Edward Snowden, for example At the time everybody said he was he should have complained up through the official chain about what he saw at the NSA. That's problematic because if he had complained to the NSA Inspector General, we probably would have never known about his Revelations because the man in charge of the NSA Inspector General at the time of the Snowden leaks. His name is George lard, and he was removed from his position in 2016. For guess what whistleblower retaliation hmm getting back to this whistleblower in the acting DNA is testimony last week.

3 (21m 42s):
He called this current whistleblower situation unique and unprecedented over and over.

1 (21m 48s):
I am not familiar with any prior instances where a whistleblower complaint touched on such complicated and sensitive issues including executive privilege. I believe that this matter is unprecedented.

3 (22m 2s):
How else is this totally unprecedented then then what's come before it?

1 (22m 6s):
It's

3 (22m 6s):
just unprecedented on every conceivable Dimension The Whistleblower complaint indicates a cover-up of both a national security threat and a threat to democracy from within the national security threat is the shadow foreign policy that the White House was running with Ukraine using the president's personal attorney Rudy Giuliani. Also the Attorney General William bar, and now it seems even Secretary of State Pompeo was in on the phone call what's distinctive about that is that shadow foreign policy is in direct opposition to the official foreign policy of the United States as administered by the state department and for which funds are appropriated by Congress that military aid had to be approved by Congress.

3 (22m 51s):
So that's a national security threat. How can our allies and our enemies know what to expect for the United States when it speaks with two miles secretly and publicly then there's the threat from the Democracy from within which is really Straightforward the president's celebration of the solicitation of foreign electrical interference. It's not hard to understand why that's not okay. Obviously Americans should elect our leaders not foreigners. So the intelligence Community whistleblower is rightfully reporting this but it's just part of a pattern of behavior that the intelligence Community has noticed since Trump selection James commis firing being another example of a member of the intelligence Community blowing the whistle on Donald Trump not through official channels by leaking his memos to the Press thinking about this current situation wherein we have the president trying to Out The Whistleblower and tracing that back to the very first instance of whistleblowing you talked about this Commodore jailing his whistleblowers.

3 (23m 55s):
It just feels a little like America wants to have it both ways. We're proud of our long history of whistleblower protections, but we also have a history of blasting these brave people. Who speak truth to power that's a great observation Shawn because that is exactly the pattern that I write about in whistleblowers. I call it the Paradox of whistleblowing in America.

1 (24m 19s):
On the one

3 (24m 19s):
hand American celebrate whistleblowers. We think they're Heroes on the other hand when Time Marches On and media attention focus is elsewhere. They pay a price as I've already mentioned. So whistle blowing in America is not done Lightly for these reasons and it is really something once this current crisis is past that we could do better in legislating protection say in the National Security around there's all sorts of things we could do we could also legislate interpretations of The Monuments Clause so that it makes sense in the 21st century, but this distinctively American idea, sometimes there's a gap between the ideal and the

1 (25m 2s):
reality

3 (25m 17s):
Alison staying

1 (25m 18s):
Is

3 (25m 18s):
the author of whistleblowers and a professor of international politics and economics at Middlebury College in Vermont. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today explained from Washington, DC. Big things to Kiwi Co but also Desmond for their support of the show today Q Eco is offering Desmond, but also you the chance to try out their fun engaging projects for the Youth of today out for free for free. They they make projects for kids of all ages go to QE co.com / explained to find out more.