1 (1s):
Google's free tools are designed to help millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working. And right. Now these businesses could use our help support. The place is near you by booking an appointment buying a gift card writing a review more ordering takeout all With a Little Help from Google. Support from the show today comes from the made to fail podcast, but broken unemployment system in Florida crowded elections in Wisconsin during a pandemic police brutality in Minnesota and across the country. All these things didn't have to happen and then made to fail the folks behind the show connect the dots between these government failures and pull back the curtain on the policies that time and again have failed the people they were supposed to protect you can find made to fail wherever you find your podcasts.

1 (51s):
kind of after finding out the president of the United States had tested positive for the coronavirus at the end of last week. We had a weekend of conflicting information on his condition some videos of him looking under the weather a photo op of him signing his name like a big boy a ride around the block that put some secret service members at risk and now he's heading back to the White House to potentially put even more people at risk never has the Trump presidency been in a greater state of flux and that is really saying something so with the Vice presidential debate set for Wednesday. We thought it'd be a good time to talk about President Trump's very Christian Shadow. Vice president Michael Richard Pence McKay coppins you written about Pence a number of times for the Atlantic.

1 (1m 37s):
What's he been saying about the president over the past few days

3 (1m 40s):
publicly. He's said the things you might expect, you know that he's praying for the president and the first lady that the American people are rooting for him. He's kind of played the traditional role of the vice president as kind of the cheerleader for the resident and supporter of is

1 (1m 56s):
what do you think's going on in his head privately?

3 (1m 59s):
Yeah, that's where things I think get more interesting because I think that this is a man who has wanted to be president for basically his entire adult life and who actually believes according to people close to him that kind of divine forces have conspired to put him with in a heartbeat of the presidency. And so I think that he's probably looking at This moment in wondering if he's been placed here for a reason and obviously I think it would be impossible for him to not be thinking about the realities of what it would mean if you had to assume the presidency at this kind of moment of Crisis.

3 (2m 41s):
I feel

1 (2m 41s):
like most people don't know very much about Mike Pence other than the fact that he is nothing like President Trump. What is the relationship between these two dudes who? I didn't really know each other for years ago 4 years later.

3 (2m 58s):
Yeah, it's interesting. When you talk to people inside the White House. They say that their relationship is almost kind of like a big brother little brother situation, but maybe a little bit more toxic than

4 (3m 12s):
that.

3 (3m 17s):
For Pence's part he is almost the a trickle in the way that he performs his deference to President Trump. You know,

1 (3m 25s):
what I think President Trump has a heart of

3 (3m 31s):
gratitude pants kind of talks about Trump in worshipful tones,

1 (3m 36s):
right? I think the American people find it very refreshing that they have a president who will tell them what's on his mind and I think I think the connection that he made in the course whether it's true or not like to do that. They're going to tell him what he's going to say what he believes to be true. And I know that he's always going to speak speak in that way as president. There was one

3 (3m 57s):
period when Pence would constantly talk about Donald Trump's broad shoulders. He's a man with broad shoulders. He's got a Clear Vision he's strong and I think I think more and more Americans every day are being drawn to the plane. And simple truth that this choice in this election is between change in the status quo that just gives you a taste of how much Pence kind of performs his role as kind of the loyal obedient Deputy for Trump's part. He is often kind of

1 (4m 37s):
almost disdainful of Pence his treatment of

3 (4m 41s):
him. You know, I've I've heard about Trump marking pens for his religiosity In The West Wing when Trump will meet with people who have just met with pencil say, ah, did Mike make you pray? He once joked that Mike Pence wanted to hang all gay people. Wow. Yeah, and actually a small thing but I think kind of revealing when the Pence family was first moving into the Naval Observatory at the beginning of their term. There was some Port somewhere that they were moving in their family pets they had a snake and a rabbit and Trump according to a long time a to I spoke to was just completely scornful of this and thought it was it was really kind of like low class or low rent to have all these Pets.

3 (5m 32s):
The person that I talked to said that Trump thinks the Pence's are yokels to be fair. I did speak with one White House official couple years ago named Mark short, who said that This is just friendly razzing friendly joking, and that the president really does respect Pence, but that's kind of what their Dynamic is like both in public and

4 (5m 52s):
private.

1 (5m 59s):
How does Penn Square the fact that the president has, you know been caught on tape saying he likes to sexually assault women and the fact that the president rolls out to a church across the street from the White House for a photo op holding a Bible throg Way up and never really visits that church outside of the photo of how does he Square the fact that this is a pretty apparently a religious dude.

3 (6m 25s):
Yeah. He very rarely betrays any doubts or sermons about that once he joined the the ticket in 2016 and basically from that moment on he's been all in and he's done basically anything the president asked him to do and that ranges from kind of repeating dishonest talking points and public to defending the president amid every Scandal but you know when I talk to some people close to Pence they will say that he sees this as his kind of Christian

4 (6m 59s):
Duty

3 (7m 5s):
Pence believes strongly in a scriptural concept that evangelicals call Servant leadership. Hmm and it comes from a part of the Bible where Jesus washes his disciples feet and then teaches that if you want to serve somebody you have to be like their slave. Basically you should submit yourself to them and and that concept is Really common throughout Christianity, but the way that it's been applied here is that Pence believes that by signing on to be vice president his job is to basically submit himself to the authority and we'll of Donald Trump that this isn't just a kind of constitutional Duty or a political duty.

3 (7m 49s):
This is a religious Duty. I should note here that a lot of Evangelical Christians would say this is kind of a perverse reading of servant leadership and This is not how it was meant to be applied. But this is at least how Pence and some of his kind of religious allies in the White House justify his behavior that said one of the things that kind of most stood out to me. When I first began reporting on vice president Pence a few years ago was the kind of scale of his personal ambition. The truth is that he's actually extremely ambitious. He's wanted to be president since his D days in college, he does have this belief according to people who know him that this is all part of God's plan right that eventually God's plan will be made manifest and maybe that will mean Pence becoming president one way or

4 (8m 45s):
another.

1 (8m 50s):
Do we have any idea what kind of President he would be other than you know, a Conservative Christian one.

3 (8m 55s):
So in some ways my pants is a fairly conventional politician at least compared to his boss, right? You know, I don't think that you would see him sort of Rage tweeting in all caps every morning. I don't think you would see him obsessing over cable news the way the Donald Trump does and on a policy level. I think that he sort of an embodiment of the pre Trump Republican Be that you know, this this idea of fusion is MM where it was tax cuts and deregulation and pro-business economic policies combined with social conservatism, which Pence really believes in in which Trump kind of only pretends to it was almost be kind of a throwback to the George W bush presidency.

3 (9m 40s):
I think if if you were looking for a comparison, of course, that would be under normal circumstances. Right? And I think that If Pence assumed the presidency because for some reason President Trump was incapacitated or unable to fulfill his duties. We'd be in a very different situation. And what would that situation look like? Will he be taking over a white house? That's you know filled with Trump family members and staff roles and Trump cronies, right? The he basically be taking over White House that's been remade in Donald Trump's image. And I think you could see it becoming Even more dysfunctional than it is right now, right.

3 (10m 22s):
I mean try to imagine for example, Mike Pence giving orders to Jared Kushner, right? What would that look like try to imagine Mike Pence needing to address the nation and his speech is being written by Stephen Miller. This would be a very odd fit to say the least, you know between the kind of people Trump has surrounded himself with and the kind of people. I think Pence would ideally want to be working right under him if he was president. didn't so I think there would be a lot of kind of culture clash and friction that it would probably make the transfer of power even more disorganized and difficult than it would be under normal circumstances

1 (11m 5s):
is he is Savvy enough political operative to to navigate that is he is he the kind of guy who could just you know, clean house and Andre staff and and take over the helm,

3 (11m 18s):
you know, it's

1 (11m 20s):
To

3 (11m 20s):
see that it's hard to see him kind of masterfully wielding power in that way, especially after sort of cementing his reputation within Trump's orbit. As this kind of Deputy who Trump can walk all over it's hard to see him coming in and just like kicking out all the Trump sick of fans from The West Wing. I would also say that his governorship while in some ways kind of traditional and conventional also had some pretty major political missteps that suggests that he may not be as Savvy as you might hope for somebody assuming the presidency and in these kinds of

4 (11m 60s):
circumstances.

1 (12m 8s):
the origin story of Vice President Pence after the

4 (12m 11s):
break

1 (12m 36s):
It's for the show today comes from caviar, you know when you order food online and like you don't need a fork because you're at home, but then it comes with a plastic fork and you're like what am I going to do with this plastic fork? I already have six million of these plus all my regular flatware why well on caviar, you can tell the restaurant you're ordering your food from please do not send me a plastic fork, please. I am tipping you in advance, please. Do not send me things. I don't need you know what I need food and you know where you can find that food on caviar caviar Right Now is offering today explain listeners 20% off your first order.

1 (13m 16s):
Just enter the promo code today when you're checking out a lot of your favorite local restaurants with all that. Good. Good are on caviar. Check it out now download the app enter the code today get 20% off your first order on caviar. Consumers for safe CBD wants to know what's in your CBD in a recent report to Congress the FDA found that a sampling of CBD products. They tested were mislabeled some of them contains more than 120 percent of the CBD amount listed ends nearly 20 products contained th see the ingredient that can cause psychoactive effects as well consumers for safe.

1 (14m 3s):
CBD is calling on the FDA to regulate the CBD Market to protect consumers from To harms posed by untested products though. The FDA has issued warnings. This is not deterred some vendors for making sweeping Health claims about their products ability to treat a wide range of serious medical conditions. Remember just because CBD products are on grocery store shelves does not mean they're risk-free be smart and stay healthy learn more about consumers for safe CBD at for safe. CBD dot-org. That's the number four. or sa Fe CBD Dot o-- r-- g-- McKay who is my pencil, where'd he come from?

1 (14m 48s):
Is it all Indiana all the way through? Yeah, he grew up

3 (14m 51s):
in a small town kind of outside of Indianapolis had sort of a quiet childhood his dad ran a chain as convenience stores his mom was a stay-at-home. Mom took care of five siblings. They were Irish Catholic Democrats, and when Pence graduated from high school and went into college a small liberal arts

1 (15m 11s):
school and in Indiana

3 (15m 13s):
he Went in kind of a staunch supporter of Jimmy Carter and a and a devout Catholic by the time he left College. He was a Ronald Reagan superfan and Evangelical Christians. So he experienced kind of to important conversion moments in college that would kind of Define the rest of his life one was at this music festival this Christian music festival. It was called a Christian Woodstock that he went to with some friends.

1 (15m 44s):
Make me talk about where the please don't make me play Rock about Trent Saturday night sleeping in a light rain. I've I walked down and not you know, not out of anything other than my heart really finally broke with the Deep realization that what had happened on the cross in some infant has them away. It happened for me and I gave my life. Life and made a personal decision to trust when the 1980 election

3 (16m 32s):
happened. It was between Jimmy Carter and Reagan Pence actually being a Carter supporter. Saw this as a contest between a good Christian man in Carter. And sort of this vacuous movie star and Ronald Reagan Reagan obviously ended up winning and Pence kind of took to Reagan and by the end of his college experience. He had been won over like a lot of people in this generation to Reagan style movement conservatism. And you know, also I think interestingly given what would happen seemed to develop an appreciation for entertainers as presidential

1 (17m 12s):
candidates and presidents. And is this around the same time he gets into politics or does that come later

3 (17m 32s):
a few years later. He first ran for congress when he was 29 years old 29. Yeah, so he was pretty ambitious early on and in fact people who knew him even Earlier than that said he wanted to be president one day they could tell that that's kind of where he was headed his First Congressional Campaign was kind of deeply cheesy. I read newspaper clips about it at the time his gimmick that he came up with was that he would ride around his district in a single speed bicycle and like short shorts and sneakers just talking to constituents and so he was seen as this kind of like Ernest cheesy.

3 (18m 13s):
Nice young man it was Trying to run for Congress that didn't end up working. He lost the race and then he decided to run again two years later and kind of took a diametrically opposed strategy to win this time, which was that he ran this like blisteringly negative kind of nasty campaign against the incumbent. In fact, it's still Remembered in Indiana as one of the nastiest races in the state's

1 (18m 38s):
history. It's kind of hard to picture Mike Pence being blisteringly negative right

3 (18m 42s):
it is but it said let me Give you a taste of it. One of the attack ads that the Pence campaign used against are who their opponent had an actor dressed up as a cartoonish Arab Sheik thinking his opponent in this kind of ridiculous accent for advancing the interests of foreign oil Pence ended up losing that campaign as well. And after that he wrote this this essay called Confessions of a negative campaigner that ended up running in a lot of different newspapers Square. Where he basically owned up to the fact that he had run this kind of scorched Earth campaign that he didn't feel good about it that it was out of step with his Christian beliefs and swore off negative campaigning for the rest of his political career.

1 (19m 29s):
What does he do after losing after being the most positive campaigner imaginable and then for at least himself being the most negative he could be

3 (19m 39s):
he does what any fail politician does he goes into conservative talk radio?

1 (19m 44s):
Mike Pence he started a local Talk

3 (19m 49s):
Radio Show in Indiana, which he described as Rush Limbaugh on decaf basically kind of positioning himself as like a Kinder gentler right wing talk radio host. He started out in one market. It actually became very popular over the next eight years. He expanded the show to 18 different markets

1 (20m 9s):
the amber waves of grain broadcasting live from iu-east in In Indiana at the IU radio day, this is Mike Pence

3 (20m 20s):
his kind of whole stick as a talk radio host is such a perfect time capsule of 90s culture War issues. Like, dr. Kevorkian was a major issue the assisted suicide issue the effect of this was that he basically became kind of a local political celebrity in Indiana and so by 2000 when the congressional seat. Opened up Republicans throughout the state. We're kind of urging him to run again and he and his family took a vacation to Colorado and his wife Karen actually later described this moment where they were horseback riding in the mountains and they looked up to the heavens and saw two red tailed hawk soaring over them and took that as a sign that they were supposed to run and that he would Glide.

3 (21m 14s):
I'd to Victory kind of suggesting that Pence has always seen his political career as kind of part of a greater divine plan.

1 (21m 25s):
So he runs in the finally

3 (21m 27s):
wins. That's right. He entered Congress and kind of immediately started to climb the leadership ranks in Congress. He was not known as a policy wonk some Republicans at the time. I had a nickname that they used for him behind his back they call them Mike dense. Which is rude let's let's be honest. I'm rude. They ain't even funny. But yeah, he was not known as kind of a policy mind or this kind of Group Policy genius, but he was very good at ascending within the ranks of leadership and he actually kind of built enough of a name for himself in Congress that there was some Buzz that he might run for president from his congressional seat, but he talked it over with some of his political allies and they stood if he should run for governor first and then run for president, which is what he did in 2012.

1 (22m 20s):
I am humbled by your trust. Honored that you've chosen me to serve and I am eager to be the governor of all the people of the state of

3 (22m 31s):
Indiana. And he immediately kind of went to work cutting taxes and taking on local unions and kind of doing things that would get the attention of conservative donors throughout the country and caucus-goers in Iowa. He was very much eyeing a presidential run in 2016 and seemed to almost be building his entire governorship around that idea, but then in early 2015 he kind of stumbled into This culture of War debacle that ended up almost do railing his governorship and and his future plans to run for president

1 (23m 10s):
back here in the states to a new law in Indiana leading to outrage across the country. It's called the Religious Freedom Act. But critics say it's a free pass to discriminate against gays and

3 (23m 20s):
lesbians. Basically if they said for example baking a wedding cake for a same-sex wedding was against the business owners religious beliefs or moral beliefs than They would be allowed to do that. And he signed the bill. This was kind of an important part of it. He signed the bill at a private ceremony at the state house surrounded by nuns monks and kind of conservative lobbyists and this picture was released and kind of all hell broke loose in this state. So there was an immediate backlash from Democrats and then that backlash kind of cascaded into a larger backlash from businesses and National.

3 (24m 2s):
operations and the NCAA which is headquartered in Indiana said that the law could imperil future events suggesting that they might pull the you know, March Madness Tournament from the state and it became such a controversy that the Indianapolis newspaper actually ran an editorial on its front page with massive all caps letters that just said fix this now Mike Pence completely mishandled the situation, you know, he didn't think that it was going to be as controversial as it was once it did prove to be controversial. He first doubled down and even kind of went on national TV to defend the policy

1 (24m 45s):
one fix that people have talked about is simply adding sexual orientation as a protected class under the state's civil rights laws. Will you push for that? I will not push for

3 (24m 54s):
that and finally ended up backing down and revising the legislation. But by then it was kind of too late for Pence's political prospects. His poll numbers were in freefall. The Democrats were raising tons of money to defeat him and re-election and actually looked to a lot of political observers like he was headed for defeat when he ran for re-election in 2016, huh,

1 (25m 21s):
and then of course someone steps Saves them I would like to introduce a man who I truly

3 (25m 28s):
believe will be outstanding in every way and will be

1 (25m 31s):
the next Vice

3 (25m 32s):
President of the United States Governor Mike

1 (25m 36s):
Pence. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you. This

3 (25m 39s):
is what's so interesting about their relationship. Right? Donald Trump effectively saved Mike Pence's career by putting him on the 2016 ticket when they first met each other both both of them kind of had serious hesitations about whether this partnership would work. You know, Mike Pence had spent most of the 2016 primary sort of shaking his head in disappointment at some of Donald Trump's Antics. He had endorsed Ted Cruz did not really seem to think that Donald Trump was up to the task and for Trump's part. He thought that Pence was according to one aide prudish stiff and embarrassingly poor

1 (26m 21s):
embarrassingly

3 (26m 22s):
poor. If you talk to anybody knows Trump, he really does measure people by how much money they make and the fact that Pence never had made a lot of money and that Financial disclosures showed. He was not a wealthy man stuck out to Trump as a red flag in terms of whether he they could work

1 (26m 41s):
together, but he picks them. Anyway,

3 (26m 44s):
I'm told that when decision time was coming for Trump to announce a running mate. He was actually personally leaning toward Chris Christie. But a lot of people in the campaign including and Trump's family thought that that would be a disaster and that they needed Pence to court religious conservative voters. So they actually orchestrated this amazing little almost like a meet cute or something for Trump and fans were on July 12 Trump's plane broke down when he was in Indiana. So Trump kind of was stranded in the state and had dinner with the Pence's.

3 (27m 23s):
Where Pence was able to woo him and kind of make one last case for why Trump should pick him instead of somebody else like Chris Christie as it turns out the plane did not have mechanical problems Untold basically Paul manafort and other people in Trump's orbit just orchestrated this whole thing. So that Trump would be able to spend more time with pens

1 (27m 47s):
the plane breaking down thing kind of sounds like divine intervention though.

3 (27m 50s):
Well, certainly 2 pencil I imagine right. I mean that's what's so interesting about Pence's whole career. Right? You look at the Arc of his career and from 2015 where he's kind of this embattled small State Governor who seems like he's on the verge of losing re-election. And now he's a Heartbeat Away from the presidency. It almost seems like Pence's entire rise has been kind of this long weird accident of Fate that has all the is strange unexpected twists throughout it and I'm told that you know Pence sees that and and thinks that it's just more evidence that this is all part of God's plan that there's some kind of larger Divine purposes at work that he's at the center

1 (28m 41s):
of But why who why my pets, you know, I just don't understand what this guy has to offer. He has less to offer seemingly than Donald Trump may be the most incompetent president. We've had in, you know Generations if not the history of the country.

3 (28m 60s):
I mean, I think this is where kind of the mingling of religious belief and political ambition can become sort of dangerous. Right and I say this as someone I'm a person of Faith myself II, you know, I don't think there's anything wrong with Are public servants being religious people relying on prayer and scripture for wisdom? All those things are good, they're fine. But I think that when you start to convince yourself that God wants you to succeed professionally that your quest for power is divinely sanctioned. It starts to give you the ability to excuse any behavior in your quest for power that you know, yeah, maybe lying only in public is bad maybe serving this, you know, clearly a moral man is not very Christian may be any number of policies that this Administration has enacted are outside of my Christian beliefs, but that's all of its.

3 (30m 1s):
Okay because the end is that I'm going to become president and that justifies the means when you get into that way of thinking I do think that it can become not just morally fraught but I think Dangerous for the country and that's where Pence's critics at least say that they're worried when they think about the prospect of a president

4 (30m 24s):
Pence.

1 (30m 31s):
McKay coppins is a staff writer at the Atlantic. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today explained. Hi, I'm tech journalist Kara Swisher time NYU Professor Scott Galloway every week on the pivot podcast. We dig into the biggest stories in business text and politics help. You understand what they actually mean for our future. We've been named the thought leadership podcast by adweek and the best business podcast of the Year by the Webbie's we're also known for making big predictions mostly Scott about the economy and occasionally, they come true.

1 (31m 15s):
It's got give us a quick prediction right now. Okay, here's my prediction. This show will make you

3 (31m 20s):
smarter.

1 (31m 21s):
Just are you will believe you're smarter. This is like to taking Edibles. You're going to think you're smart, even though you're not but it doesn't matter if you think you're smart. Are you not you are it's perception not reality. We obviously don't stick to the script which is why you should listen every Tuesday and Friday on Apple podcasts or wherever you get your podcast.