0 (1s):
Right. He was able to make the play. And here is Ohtani and what will more than likely be his final at bat today. In his Dodger debut,

1 (8s):
A Baseball player made his debut as a Los Angeles Dodger this week, and he delivered,

0 (14s):
Swung on hit high in the air to left and deep. This ball carried. This ball is gone. It's Dodger debut. Shohei Ohtani brings him to their feet, a two run home run.

1 (30s):
The difference between this ball player and all the rest is that he's the most expensive in the history of the game. Shohei O'S $700 million contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers. The biggest contract in any sport ever really suggests that our national pastime is the most international it's ever been. But it also comes at a time when Baseball is struggling with diversity back home. We are digging into the dugout on today. Explained.

Whole Foods Market (1m 0s):
Taste the Mediterranean through March 19th at Whole Foods Market. Save on animal welfare, certified bone and beef short ribs, sustainable wilding, caught sockeye salmon and more. Find sales on Parmesano Reggiano charcuterie and ground lamb. Grab an olive Bullard bread from the bakery, plus wines from the Mediterranean. Start at just 8 99. Taste the Mediterranean now at Whole Foods Market. Must be 21 plus, please drink responsibly.

On with Kara Swisher from New York Magazine and Vox Media (1m 31s):
Hi, this is Kara Swisher, host of On with Kara Swisher from New York Magazine and Vox Media. This week on the podcast, I sat down with Roberta Kaplan, the renowned lawyer who recently represented e Jean Carroll in her defamation case against Former President Donald Trump and won $83.3 million. Won not too shabby. Kaplan and I discussed her strategy for taking on Trump, his abhorrent behavior in and out of the court, and potential outcomes of the cases against him that are still outstanding And. we also talked about a case she's waging against Elon Musk. It's a great conversation and it's available now wherever you get your podcasts.

5 (2m 11s):
It's Showtime

1 (2m 13s):
Today Explains Sean Ramas from Yes, we're gonna do a show about Baseball today. And yes, we understand it's not for everyone, but we asked Ben Lindbergh from the Ringer to make the case as to why you might wanna take interest in the sport Right now.

6 (2m 26s):
Well, there's a lot of interest in Baseball these days stemming from the rules changes that were implemented last season, a pitch clock in particular, which really sped up the games. So if Baseball was too slow for you before, it's a little bit faster now. Spring is always a time of renewal and hope and faith in sports And we have a lot of interesting storylines to follow. Foremost among them may be Shohei Ohtani in a new uniform

7 (2m 52s):
Breaking news from Major League Baseball where Shohei Ohtani is signing with the Los Angeles Dodgers. The two way

6 (2m 59s):
Dodger Blue, actually every MLB player is in a new uniform Right now, which hasn become kind of a controversial subject.

8 (3m 5s):
Major League Baseball is striking out with its new uniforms. The latest complaint hits below the belt. The pants are see through.

6 (3m 14s):
So that's one reason why you might wanna watch Baseball. Now

1 (3m 17s):
Ben, you buried the lead. If you weren't interested in Baseball before, maybe you'll be, now that the pants are seen through, yes,

6 (3m 23s):
But the players are as good as ever, even if the uniforms are not

1 (3m 27s):
And maybe one player more important than all the rest. Hey,

9 (3m 31s):
Shohei is the greatest Baseball player of all time.

10 (3m 33s):
He's the fastest he hit the ball the hardest. He throws the ball the hardest like he is playing little League out there. He is the, he is the best player to ever play.

11 (3m 41s):
Is Shohei Tani the best show in Sports Right now?

0 (3m 44s):
Yes, he is

6 (3m 48s):
Shohei. Tani has been the story of Baseball probably for the past few years, really the past several seasons since he came over from Japan because he has pioneered a new way to play Baseball, or at least brought back a way to play Baseball that we haven't seen for a century. He also signed an unprecedented, unparalleled contract with a new team this off season. Imagine

12 (4m 10s):
If Tom Brady led League in touchdowns thrown and sacks Shohei Tani, the first two-way star in a hundred years goes against everything we thought we knew about Baseball. And yet he is making it look easy.

6 (4m 24s):
He is a singular player because he is a two-way player. He is among the best batters in Baseball. Oh,

0 (4m 30s):
Oh, he got another one. Get going. Ohtani has done it again. Two Homers in the nightcap.

6 (4m 38s):
He's also among the best pitchers in Baseball.

0 (4m 41s):
This would be the first complete game shutout. And there it is, show a Ohtani goes all nine

6 (4m 48s):
And. we have not seen anyone pull off that Highwire act at the highest level of the sport for about a century since Babe Ruth and some Negro League's legends like Bullard Rogan were able to do that. That was a much lower level of competition a century ago than we see in Major League Baseball today. And so it was more feasible for one person to be the best at both aspects of the sport. We have not seen anyone pull that off of late. And it was thought to be impossible frankly, before he showed that it could be done. So he has been the best player in Baseball over the past few years. He has won two unanimous MVP awards in the American League. Soge

7 (5m 26s):
Ohtani is your unanimous 2023 Al MVP. Another historic season by the unicorn.

6 (5m 33s):
And it has turned him into a global superstar and an icon of the sort that Baseball doesn't manufacture much these days

1 (5m 41s):
And because of that he has to get paid. How much are the Dodgers going to pay him?

6 (5m 48s):
The top line number is $700 million.

13 (5m 52s):
Big news in the sports world this weekend, Shohei Ohtani signed a record contract with the LA Dodgers, $700 million for 10 years, the largest contract in US team sports history.

6 (6m 2s):
The $700 million number is arguably the biggest contract that any athlete in any sport has received

1 (6m 9s):
Ever. Ever in the history of of

6 (6m 11s):
Sports. Yes, absolutely. And it is a 10 year contract technically, however, it's really more like a 20 year contract because the vast majority of that $700 million is deferred. People

14 (6m 24s):
Are absolutely flabbergasted and trying to figure out what the reason behind this deal is.

6 (6m 33s):
There are a number of reasons why he and the Dodgers chose to use this structure, which Ohtani himself actually suggested. The way it breaks down is he will make a mere $20 million over the next 10 years. So 680 Poor guy million I know, right? How will he make ends meet? But $680 million of this will be deferred and he will then receive annual $68 million payouts from 2034 to 2043. So if you factor in inflation, which most Americans have become pretty familiar with over the past few years, if you factor in the fact that a dollar today doesn't have the same buying power that a dollar will have in 10 or 20 years, it's really more like 460 million, which would still be the biggest in Baseball history, but maybe not the biggest.

6 (7m 22s):
If you compare to say some soccer superstars windfalls, however, it's 700 million partly for bragging rights so that he or his agent can claim that it is the biggest sports contract ever. Not that he is someone who typically brags about his performance. He seems to be very humble, at least in public. It also though, enables the Dodgers to have more short-term payroll flexibility. Aha. 'cause they will only be paying him $2 million per year, at least for the next couple of years, which enables them to spend a lot more money on other superstars. And in fact, they have signed some other superstars, including fellow Japanese player Yoshin Opu Yamamoto, since they signed Shohei Ohtani.

6 (8m 4s):
So it gives them a little more flexibility, which he was in favor of because he wants to win. And in theory at least this helps the Dodgers surround him with other stars.

1 (8m 15s):
And how much success has Ohtani had with the World Series?

6 (8m 19s):
He has no experience with the World Series. In fact, he has Aha. Not experienced the playoffs yet in the majors. That is what now in Japan. He was a a playoff player and got to play in the final series over there. But he's been with the angels ever since. He came to MLB in 2018. And the angels famously have been hapless, but,

15 (8m 40s):
But there were angels in the outfield and in the infield. Yeah. Nine of them.

1 (8m 45s):
Tell us about Tani's success outside of Major League Baseball.

6 (8m 49s):
Well, he was successful competitively speaking in Japan. He was a star in NPP before he came to MLB And, we should say. That is no small accomplishment because the Japanese major League is the highest level League in the world in terms of caliber of competition next to major League Baseball. So he became a superstar there. And not just on the field, but also a celebrity. He inspires a sort of fan fervor that we typically don't see surrounding Baseball players these days. In fact, that's one reason why he was willing to accept or even suggest this contract structure. He makes tens of millions of dollars a year in endorsement deals.

6 (9m 37s):
And that is very unusual for Baseball players these days where if you ask someone name a Baseball player, they might name Babe Ruth or Derek Jeter. Right? Someone who's not even active in the sport. You keep telling

15 (9m 48s):
Me that. Who is she?

17 (9m 51s):
What,

1 (9m 54s):
What

6 (9m 55s):
Ohtani is the exception in that. Even people who don't care about Baseball sometimes care about Shohei. Ohtani

1 (10m 1s):
Does a Japanese player getting the biggest contract in the history of major League Baseball. And arguably the history of professional sports mean that diversity is kicking butts and taking names in in, in Baseball.

6 (10m 16s):
We've certainly seen a trend towards international players in MLB who make up about 30% of the player pool these days. Some of the most compelling productive players in the game today, were not born in the us. We've seen Japanese superstars before. of course, Etro, who will be entering the National Baseball Hall of Fame soon. But Shohei Tani has, I think, been the best player from the country that we've ever seen. And you have had concerns from people who've expressed the ideas because of the language barrier, because he was a Japanese player.

18 (10m 51s):
If you are a star and you are, you need an interpreter that might have something to do with your inability to ingratiate yourself with that young demographic to attract them to the sport.

6 (11m 4s):
And we've seen how wrong that has turned out to be. He is a player whose charisma transcends any cultural differences or language barriers. of course, he's a big handsome guy. He's easy on the eyes. A lot of people who might not be interested in his Baseball prowess might be interested in him as a fashion model, which he has been professionally, but also because he's funny, he's always smiling and laughing. He's a good role model. And so he's about the best ambassador for the sport that you could imagine on any number of levels.

1 (11m 47s):
Ben Lindbergh is a senior editor at The Ringer where he's made the case that showy Ohtani isn't just an MVP, but that he might be the goat. Read it@theringer.com. His goat status might make it seem like diversity in Baseball has never looked better, but the sports got a bit of a problem back at home. We'll tell you all about it when we're back on today. Explained

NetSuite (12m 17s):
Fox Creative. This is advertiser content from NetSuite. I've never worked in media before and it's really fun to see deals come through, especially when we signed with M-K-B-H-D and the Waveform Podcast. That was one of my favorite shows on YouTube and I've loved that we've partnered with him. I'm Christina Ho Rodriguez, and I am a senior manager of revenue accounting at Vox Media. At Vox. I'm not so siloed in my own revenue accounting department. I'm getting to see the big picture of of what the company is working on. In my first year, the company went through a really big merger with another media company, And. we switched from our old ERP system to NetSuite. We had to integrate NetSuite really fast. It was very user-friendly right out of the box. Over the last couple months, our team developed a new revenue reporting module that makes our reporting much faster, much more automated. I have a lot of hope with what we can do in the future with NetSuite so that we're able to optimize, make our team a lot more successful and improve our processes. We're only as good as our best data and NetSuite allows us to see it all. Discover the power of NetSuite, a leading cloud financial system serving more than 37,000 businesses. Download NetSuite's popular KPI checklist designed to give you consistently excellent performance, absolutely free at netsuite.com/explained. That's netsuite.com/explained to get your own KPI checklist.

21 (13m 51s):
Hey, before we get back to the show, here's something fun today explained is going to South by Southwest in Austin this year. I'm interviewing Charlemagne, the God host of the Breakfast Club. We're gonna talk about President Biden's problem with black voters. Polls, also vibes and EC data suggest that black men are growing more interested in Donald Trump this election season. What's going on? I'm hosting a special live show on March 10th on the official Vox Media podcast stage at South by Southwest, sponsored by Atlassian. The stage is also gonna host live episodes of Stay Tuned with Pret on with Kara Swisher. Where should we begin with? Aire Perel. Brene Brown will be there. What? And other shows from the Vox Media Podcast Network.

21 (14m 31s):
If you can't make it to Austin, I completely understand. You can hear my interview in your podcast feed on Monday, March 11th. Two Radio Hosts, Charlamagne, and Noelle. For the price of one, it's gonna be great. Visit Vox media.com/live to learn more. That's Vox media.com/lot.

15 (14m 49s):
The sultan of swat, the King of Crash, the Colossus of Clout, the Colossus of Clout today. Today explained the Gray Bambino.

1 (15m 1s):
Shakia Taylor loves Baseball.

22 (15m 3s):
I love Baseball. I think all of the things that people hate about it are the things that I enjoy. I won't say all, let's say some.

1 (15m 10s):
She also writes about it for the Chicago Tribune.

22 (15m 13s):
I think the game being a little bit slower allows for it to become sort of a character in the background. And you can have a conversation with the person next to you. Mm. I feel like you can kind of come in and out of the game and engage and it's perfect for a sunny day for something to be slow. We're always in a hurry.

1 (15m 31s):
She's also written about the game's history,

22 (15m 34s):
Particularly black history in Baseball as I feel like it's a pretty undercover part of the game. Black players, particularly black Americans, because I wanna be clear, you know, you can be black from anywhere, have been involved in Baseball since at least the Civil War. And throughout history, black players have made tremendous contributions to the game. The Negro Leagues are one of the greatest achievements in Black American history. There's sort of a dramatic style and flare that comes from Black American players in the game that is unique to them.

22 (16m 16s):
They bring a lot of the swagger to the game

0 (16m 25s):
An to a lot of people.

1 (16m 29s):
But despite that history, black representation in major League Baseball sort of peaked in the nineties.

22 (16m 34s):
The last time black representation in Major League Baseball was above 10% was 2004. If we look back into the nineties, like 19 94, 19 95, 19 96, we're looking at 16% or better. And if you look back at that, you know, 95, 94 era, that would be the King gr free junior era. The game was more fun. The backwards caps and you know, hip hop hooray. And the home run derby was a big, big deal at that point. Swung

0 (17m 11s):
On the line, that line, here comes joy. Here is the third base. They gonna wave him in. The of the plate will be late. The Mariners are going to play for the American Leagues championship.

1 (17m 27s):
Do we hit like a low point? When does this problem become super noticeable for fans?

22 (17m 33s):
I really believe that while numerically the number has, has hovered around six or 7% for a few years now, that it felt at its lowest in 2020. There was the uprisings around the George Floyd killing around the country. And there was already a lot of issues regarding race within the sport.

12 (17m 58s):
And just as Baldwin was calling for change, a controversial rant was posted to injured Mariners catcher, Steve Clevenger's Twitter account. The tweets talking about the unrest in Charlotte used racially charged words like animal and thug. It called Black Lives Matter pathetic. And Mockingly said keep kneeling for the anthem.

22 (18m 18s):
And there were protests. And I remember seeing some of the players talk about how they would sneak off and join a protest, huh. And they weren't sure how their teams would feel about it. There was the, this idea that the players would protest on opening day and it turned into an approved protest. Well, anyone who knows the definition of the word protest knows that in approved protest kind of an oxymoron. It's, is it really a protest if the people you're protesting are comfortable with it?

23 (18m 50s):
And the Cleveland Indians and Major League Baseball also stand united with Black Lives Matter and all of those who seek social justice and equality sports can be

22 (19m 1s):
A part. And it felt obvious that Major League Baseball was lacking in a lot of ways as it pertained to race. We could even identify that there were teams who didn't have a black player at all on their roster, which seems kind of impossible. And all of the issues that I think people have been sitting on came to a head in 2020. So

1 (19m 23s):
Black representation in in the MLB hits a record low in 2022, and then 2023 beats that record. So we are now at an all time low. What does Baseball lose when there aren't black players in the League?

22 (19m 36s):
I think what the League loses without black players is, first of all, a lot of the things that we enjoy about Baseball base stealing things like that, those things were perfected and made a thing in Black Baseball. Hmm. A lot of the flare, a lot of the excitement of the game that came from black players. But I also think without black players or black American players, you're losing a significant portion of history. When Major League Baseball reintegrated, it marked the beginning of the end for the Negro Leagues. So once there are no Black American players in Major League Baseball, what happens to that history?

22 (20m 23s):
Who is bringing that forward?

18 (20m 25s):
When you turn on the TV and you see a, a Baseball commercial or you see a a, a endorsement or whatever it is, it is, you never see nobody that look like you Mm. That you can relate to When you turn on basketball, you can see LeBron say 74%, you could see a 69% basketball or whatever. Somebody Oh that. That's me right there. you know what I'm saying? But when you see Baseball and black kids look at it, it, they don't see them Nowhere.

1 (20m 49s):
Do we know why there are fewer black players now, Shakia,

22 (20m 52s):
I've heard from parents all over the country, really, that they're paying now for private coaching. They're, they're paying thousands of dollars for trainers to train their kids. They're paying for travel ball. Huh. And it's just becoming a middle class game regardless of race. It is becoming a middle class game.

24 (21m 14s):
Baseball is not the option. Back when I was coming up, we had a lot of African Americans in the, in major League Baseball. Now that's not the the thing because they priced us out as well. Because like when you played Baseball little leagues, it was cool. Probably about 150 to register a hundred. Yep. Yep. To play on the select team nine is at least two grand. Wow. 2,500. So kids ain't playing, they can't afford it. They priced us out.

22 (21m 37s):
But then there was also an a thing with Baseball and these unwritten rules and how non-White fans would feel in the ballpark. you know, there's people saying if you hit a home, run off a pitcher and you celebrate it, then you can get hit on your next at bat. It's things like that that deterred young black kids from wanting to participate because it was no fun.

1 (22m 2s):
Does Major League Baseball notice this problem in 2020 or before or after? Or have they even noticed it now?

22 (22m 9s):
Major League Baseball has noticed this problem. I feel like even as far back as 2017 is when I really started paying attention to what Major League Baseball was doing with regard to this. And they have things like the Baseball Breakthrough series, the Dream series, which occurs every MLK weekend where they bring out the top black high school Baseball players. They have the Hank Aaron Invitational. And I think we're seeing some results from it because many of the young black men who are in major League Baseball today, who are relatively new, came through those programs.

22 (22m 49s):
Hmm.

1 (22m 50s):
So you're saying it's working.

22 (22m 51s):
It might be, I would probably need a little bit more data. you know, Baseball people are big data people, but on the surface it looks to be working, but not just because of them, but because of other people on a grassroots level who are also helping participate, who are also helping get these kids seen by the major League Baseball programs.

1 (23m 14s):
Yeah. Tell me more about that. Because this isn't just about, you know, turning great athletes into major League ball players. This is about turning kids onto Baseball in the first place, right?

22 (23m 25s):
Absolutely. It's about turning kids onto Baseball and introducing kids to Baseball in all sorts of communities at a younger age is important to gaining that interest in not just being a fan, but in watching and in playing the game. There's an organization where I'm located in Chicago called Lost Boys, Inc. There's another organization called Minority Baseball Prospects who also have a minority softball prospects. There is Black Baseball Media. There is a podcast called The Black Baseball Mix Tape. There are all of these people on a grassroots level who are working and organizing to help create this pipeline who are helping to say like, Hey, I love Baseball.

22 (24m 14s):
It, it is for us. We are not excluded from the sport. You are welcome in it. And that's also helping make a major impact because they're getting kids who may have been ignored.

1 (24m 27s):
Do you think there could be enough change to make Baseball, which is our national pastime as cool as football and basketball? Do you think there could be a day where Baseball has the same cachet as as say, basketball or football?

22 (24m 44s):
No, I don't think that. And here's, here's

1 (24m 48s):
Why. I don't think that, no,

22 (24m 49s):
I, I mean, I, I had to give you a solid No, because I just don't think that there was a stat going around that the average major League Baseball fan was a 50 something year old white male. Hmm. So I don't know what that looks like today, but it's probably still trending that way. And I think once the fan base goes more diverse, once you know more women are involved in the game, and I don't mean involved in the game, as in on the field necessarily, but I mean in positions of power. Once we see more diversity across positions of power across MLB, I'm sure things will start to trend a little differently.

22 (25m 29s):
With superstar players like Shohei, Fernando Tiz, they're all just incredibly amazing and they're doing a lot for the game. But the League itself has to step into

1 (25m 51s):
Shakia taylor chicago tribune.com. Our program today was produced by Haddi Mawajdeh and Jesse Alejandro. Trell. We were edited by today explains leading football correspondent Matthew Collette fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Rob Byers and Patrick Boyd Show. Tani announced just yesterday on Instagram that he got married. Congratulations. The first of many rings with the Dodgers. One fan responded, show you how Tanya is married. This is the worst day of my life, said another. Is there anything else you want people to know about this moment in Baseball?

22 (26m 29s):
Everyone should check it out for a little bit. Lock in on a team that maybe you wouldn't look at and see what's happening. Maybe it's a little early now, but in a couple of months it, it should get interesting around the summertime.

1 (26m 40s):
But if you get it now, you can enjoy the see-through

3 (26m 43s):
Pants while they last. Ooh, you can or you cannot enjoy them depending.

22 (26m 48s):
There are definitely some weirds and jeers happening with the pants.

3 (26m 52s):
That's for sure.