0 (0s):
Everywhere you go in Washington DC these days, you hear people talking about it.

1 (5s):
Shut up.

0 (7s):
You hear it at the bus stop. The debt ceiling. You hear it at the barber shop. The debt ceiling. You hear it at the grocery store, the debt ceiling. You hear it on the street corners, the debt ceiling. But what is it? Why do we have it? Why do we have to fight about it every so often? Why is our government built this way? Could we have built it better? Like what would the fine people of Washington DC be talking about if we had, we're gonna break out the shovels and dig into these questions on this edition of today. Explained

1 (1m 1s):
James won, produced the hit horror film, Megan, he made the saw movies, he made the conjuring. And he can see horror everywhere

3 (1m 10s):
At nighttime. If I hear something or I go somewhere and I think that they may be someone out there, I actually go, hello, is someone there?

4 (1m 21s):
I've

3 (1m 22s):
Actually found myself to have done that.

1 (1m 24s):
James won on. Why? We always want to be scared. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast,

4 (1m 37s):
It's the new year, and for some that means resolutions to eat healthy food and get in shape. You've probably heard the standard advice to lose weight, eat fewer calories than you burn. But we at Gastropod wanted to know, is a calorie a calorie no matter what food it comes from? And is one calorie for you the same as one for me to find out. We visit the rooms where calories are measured and the labs where scientists are proving that the numbers on our food labels are off sometimes by quite a bit. So is the calorie broken? Find Gastropod unsubscribe wherever you get your podcasts

0 (2m 13s):
Today. Explained Sean Ramer here with Andrew Procop from Vox in our DC studio. Andrew, why is everyone in this town talking about the debt ceiling right now?

5 (2m 21s):
Because today is the day that we hit the debt ceiling.

0 (2m 25s):
And is that cataclysmic or are we gonna be okay?

5 (2m 29s):
It's okay for now. Basically, every time we hit the debt ceiling, which is the legally mandated limit in how much debt the US government can issue to pay its bills, the treasury Secretary can kick the can down the road a little bit more by using what's known as extraordinary measures to keep things going. Fiddling with the books a little bit so that technically we don't have to breach the debt ceiling fully until a few months from now.

0 (3m 1s):
Hmm. By June, could this be a much more perilous situation?

5 (3m 6s):
Yes. So that's the real deadline. And in the biggest debt ceiling showdowns in the past, that's the true date when it's believed there will be some sort of crisis default economic pain. If measures aren't taken to raise the US debt ceiling before then

0 (3m 28s):
Remind me how this has gone in the past. We have some examples to point to. Yes.

5 (3m 32s):
So generally there's a bit of a staring contest, game of chicken, treating it like a political football, whatever kind of metaphor you want to use for this. As the parties in Congress stare each other down, arguing about what to do over this. And in recent decades, this has mainly been the subject of political posturing, but

6 (3m 57s):
Political aftershocks echoed in Washington and around the country today after Republicans scored resounding victories in the midterm elections

5 (4m 5s):
After the Republicans took the House of Representatives during Barack Obama's first midterms. So this is 2011, it was the Tea Party wave. They all came in, they wanted to cut government spending, and they had the idea that they could essentially take the debt ceiling hostage

7 (4m 23s):
In the house. 87 freshman Republicans got elected only after pledging to slash the budget by a hundred billion.

5 (4m 31s):
This was a must pass bill that everyone agreed there would be economic calamity if, if it wasn't passed, if the debt ceiling wasn't raised. So the house Republicans decided to say, Hey, guess what? We're not gonna raise it unless you, president Obama and Senate Democrats agreed to dramatically cut government spending.

8 (4m 52s):
Speaker Bayner seized his moment in the spotlight tonight to sum up the g o P approach with a pithy statement. He later tweeted,

9 (5m 0s):
The solution of this crisis is not complicated. If you're spending more money than you're taking in, you need to spend less of it.

0 (5m 8s):
Was that the worst this ever got? This sort of brinksmanship around the debt ceiling?

5 (5m 12s):
The 2011 crisis was the closest we ever came to the brink.

0 (5m 16s):
So how did Obama, the Republicans, the Democrats, finally come to some consensus? Well,

5 (5m 21s):
They cut a deal.

10 (5m 22s):
I want to announce that the leaders of both parties in both chambers have reached an agreement that will reduce the deficit and avoid default.

5 (5m 31s):
President Obama at that time wanted to be seen as a spending cutter. He wanted to change the perception of him as a big spender before his reelection. He was sort of following President Bill Clinton's example from the 1990s. So he came to the table, the parties tried to make out a grand bargain on how to raise taxes and cut spending, but in the end, that didn't come together. So they created a much cruder method. They, they agreed to, to form another committee, a super committee, to look at spending cuts and, and the budget deficit. And then if the super committee could not reach a deal, which it didn't, then what was known as the sequester would kick in, these were big automatic spending cuts to both defense and non-defense spending.

11 (6m 23s):
The sequestration acts would slice 54 billion from defense and an equal amount from domestic programs from headstart to the border patrol next year with more to follow.

5 (6m 35s):
So those sequestration spending cuts did kick in. Nobody really liked them and they went into effect for some time and eventually they were rolled back and that was our last big debt ceiling showdown. So

0 (6m 48s):
How did we get back here in 2023?

5 (6m 51s):
So even though the Republican party in general has become less focused on cutting spending, there's still a faction within the party that cares about that. A great deal supported by donors, interest groups, and, and controlling a a certain block of seats. And the broad mainstream of the party is also sympathetic to the idea that the federal government is spending too much and that we should do something about that. So when Kevin McCarthy was trying to win some of those last Republican holdout votes to get named Speaker of the House, he agreed that he would allow no clean debt ceiling increase that, that basically they were gonna do 2011 again.

5 (7m 34s):
Hmm. They were going to demand spending cuts in exchange for raising the debt ceiling.

0 (7m 39s):
And so is it the same Republicans who held up McCarthy's speakership who are now gonna hold up this debt ceiling situation?

5 (7m 45s):
Well now it's, it's Kevin McCarthy who's going to hold it up. I

12 (7m 48s):
Don't know if you have any children, but if you had the child and you gave 'em a credit card and they kept raising it and they hit the limit, so you just raised it again, clean, increase and again and again, would you just keep doing that or would you change the behavior? We're six months away, why wouldn't we sit down now and change this behavior?

5 (8m 7s):
He agreed to a strategy that he's hoping to unite the Republican party behind that, that they are going to demand concessions from the White House and Senate Democrats. And that basically saying, we're not gonna raise the debt ceiling unless you agree to some of the spending cuts we want.

0 (8m 26s):
Huh? And do we have any idea how the White House is gonna play it?

5 (8m 29s):
Well, the White House has said they're not gonna negotiate

6 (8m 32s):
The word from the White House is that they don't wanna set a precedent where basically anytime you vote to raise the debt ceiling that you somehow get some kind of a prize, a cookie. As one Democrat put it,

5 (8m 45s):
They suggesting that they believe that President Obama made a mistake by agreeing to deal over this, they are going to hold firm. President Biden seems less interested in rebranding himself as a spending cutter as compared to President Obama. He doesn't seem to think that that issue is politically potent enough to help his reelection, at least at this point. So right now there is a bit of a standoff.

0 (9m 16s):
So what are you gonna be watching for in the next few months as this plays

5 (9m 20s):
Out? Both sides positions are incompatible at this point. The White House says they won't negotiate on the debt ceiling house Republicans say they won't raise the debt ceiling unless the white ass agrees to cut spending. So there are a few ways this could resolve. There could be some sort of a deal between moderates of both parties. There's been some chatter about that in the house at least, but for various reasons, it's, it's kind of hard to see them overpowering their own party leaders. So if that's not the case, then it really is a question of who blinks first or if there is some sort of way to get both sides to diffuse this crisis.

0 (10m 11s):
How the potential for periodic economic crisis got built into the system when we return on today explained.

14 (10m 25s):
Hi, I'm John Glenn Hill and I'm the new host of The Weeds, a podcast from Vox all about politics and policy. Our mission is to take deep dives into policies shaping our world, everything from crypto regulation to immigration to climate change. And this week for my first official episode in the host chair, we're firing up the weeds time machine. And taking a trip back to 1965

15 (10m 52s):
Today is a trium for freedom, as huge as any victory that's ever been won on any battlefield.

14 (11m 2s):
To talk about one of the most significant pieces of civil rights legislation in US history, the Voting Rights Act, and with questions swirling around election integrity and the future of American democracy, we figured there's no time like the present to look back on it. Subscribe to the weeds for new episodes every Tuesday.

16 (11m 25s):
Music pop quiz time. Can you identify these three sounds? That's an 8 0 8. It's made by pitching and distorting the sound of a kick drum. And it's now replaced bass guitar in countless pop records from Drake to Kim Petris. Okay, number two, That's a vocal chop, a short sample of a singer cut up drenched in reverb and made totally ubiquitous through the hands of EDM producers like Skrillex. All right, last one. That's a re space. It's a sludgy synthesized baseline created by producer Kevin Reese Sanderson in 1988. You can hear it in genres like Jungle Drum and Bass UK garage. And it's even featured all over Taylor Swift's latest record.

16 (12m 8s):
The sounds of popular music are always evolving. If you want to be able to know all of its sounds, the Switched on Pop podcast will break it down for you. I'm Charlie Harding, the co-host of Switched On Pop. And if you can name this sound, honestly, you should come on the show and tell us about it. Switched on. Pop comes out every Tuesday, wherever you get podcasts

0 (12m 36s):
Today explained. We are back with the program, but Andrew Procop is gone here to replace him as his colleague from the Vox Newsroom. Dylan Matthews, who I'm told, has been thinking and writing about the debt ceiling for a long time, Dylan, is that true? Yeah.

17 (12m 50s):
My first debt ceiling fight was, was 2011, and I was, I was an intern and still in college. And so I've been doing this my entire professional life and it seems like it will never end.

0 (13m 0s):
You've cut your teeth on the debt ceiling. So forgive me for starting with such a basic question, but I have to ask for our listeners. Why does the United States have a debt ceiling at all? We're clearly very good at spending propagate amounts of money. Why do we need a limit?

17 (13m 14s):
Well, we have a limit because you decided to enter World War I in 1917.

0 (13m 19s):
Aha.

17 (13m 21s):
Before 1917, Congress was very sort of micromanagy about the debt. If there was a big project like the Panama Canal or a railroad that the government was subsidizing or something, they would issue bonds specifically for that project. And sometimes they would have a little more flexibility if it was a wars, a Spanish American war, they, the treasury was allowed to issue bonds a little more loosely. But usually like Congress would set the interest rate, they would say how much debt could be issued at all. They would set the length of the bonds, like very much like in the details. And once we got into World War I, it's a massive war that, and quite famously a world war of immense, immense scale.

17 (14m 6s):
And so they couldn't really predict how much they were going to spend. And so in the second Liberty Bond Act of 1917, they gave the treasury the authority to, to issue bonds of the amount they saw fit. But subject to a limit.

18 (14m 22s):
We men in Congress will give President Wilson what he needs to fight the great war, but there must be some

17 (14m 27s):
Kind of limit. They didn't want to give up total control. They wanted to have, have some cap on what, what the treasury could do with that power.

0 (14m 34s):
And that's where the debt ceiling came

17 (14m 36s):
From. That's the origin point. And and initially they, we had like different ceilings for different kinds of debt. I think it, it took until literally the 1980s for there to be an actual like separate law about this. Until then, we were just amending the second Liberty Bond act of 1917. Wow. But yeah, the statutory limit on this comes from World War One.

0 (15m 0s):
Okay. So this comes from World War I, which is as I recall about a century ago. Sure. Do we still need it? Why is it stuck around?

17 (15m 9s):
No one needs the dead ceiling. I wanna be very clear about this. I have not met like a single expert who thinks it's a good idea that the US has a dead ceiling. Huh? People like Rohit Kumar, who was Deputy chief of staff to Mitch McConnell and deeply involved in all the Obama era dead ceiling negotiations. He thinks we should get rid of it. Hmm. Almost every other country like us has nothing like this. Canada doesn't have it. UK doesn't have it. France doesn't have it. Germany doesn't have it. Japan doesn't have it. Australia doesn't have it. New Zealand doesn't have it. The only other country that has something like this is Denmark and theirs is fake. That theirs is is said at at 2 trillion Danish croner, their outstanding debt is, is 438 billion croner.

17 (15m 52s):
They're just not gonna hit it.

0 (15m 53s):
I is it here to stay then? Are we ever gonna just get rid of this thing? I

17 (15m 57s):
Sincerely hope at some point the de ceiling is abolished or defacto abolished. I think it looks bad optically to be like, I'm getting rid of this restriction on how much debt we have. Debt sounds bad. That is a, a vote that is easy to use in an attack ad. Mm. I think the most elegant way out long term is John Yarmouth, who used to be chair of the, the house budget committee, had a bill that would let the Treasury secretary set the debt ceiling. And so we would still have a debt ceiling, but the administration would be in charge of what it was. And so it wouldn't be up to Congress. You wouldn't have these periodic crises, but

0 (16m 32s):
Congress would need to agree to that change.

17 (16m 34s):
Right? That's a bill they would need to pass. And they would in doing that, be giving up leverage going forward. And I think a lot of them are, are loathed to do that.

0 (16m 43s):
In the meantime, how do we avoid a fight that drags on for months and potentially causes economic harm in this country?

17 (16m 55s):
So I think there, there are two rough paths for, for Biden here. One is to do what Obama did and negotiate to, to work out some package of concessions in exchange for Republicans agreeing to raise the debt ceiling. Hmm. The other path is to try to use his powers as president to get around the debt ceiling. Ah-huh. That is trickier, but also holds the promise of, of preventing more crises like this in the future.

0 (17m 21s):
And what does that road look like?

17 (17m 23s):
Well, there are a few forks in that road. We can take 'em one by one. Okay. So first is, is the 14th Amendment option. The 14th amendments is probably most famous for guaranteeing equal protection for applying the Bill of Rights to the states. But there is a provision in there that the integrity of the debt shall not be challenged. And if you look back at what John Bingham, who was the, the Ohio Congressman who wrote the 14th Amendment, was saying he was coming outta the Civil War and he wanted to, to prevent us default. And so there have been people arguing that under the 14th Amendment and under the original understanding of it when it was written, measures that could lead the US to default are unconstitutional.

17 (18m 13s):
Probably the most famous people to have embraced this were Bill Clinton and NC Pelosi back in 2011.

19 (18m 18s):
In fact, if I were president, would I would use the 14th amendment, which says that the, the that of the United States, it will always be Peggy, you would just go ahead and do it. You wouldn't wait. I would just go do it.

17 (18m 29s):
Congress. Right. There's some constitutional law scholars who who've embraced this as well. Obama Demured. And I think one reason he demured it, which which applies to everything we're gonna talk about here, is just anything that makes this a fight in the courts, puts a question mark on US debt. Hmm. And, and maybe the markets are less certain that, that they'll be paid back because people are suing the president over his authority to do this. But that's one option.

0 (18m 60s):
Invoke the 14th amendment, one option that Biden has here. Come

20 (19m 4s):
On. Come on

0 (19m 5s):
Folks. But there are others. Yes.

17 (19m 7s):
So the other declare I'm going to ignore the debt ceiling option is it doesn't have a snappy name. You could maybe call it the least illegal option.

0 (19m 17s):
That's kinda snappy

17 (19m 19s):
A little bit. So these professors, Michael Dorff and Neil Buchanan developed this idea. Congress passed a bunch of laws saying what the tax coach be in the US and raising a certain amount of money. Congress also passed a lot of laws saying what they wanted to spend money on. And then they passed a third law saying that you can't have debt above a certain amount. And Dophin Buchanan's argument is that these three laws contradict each other. You can obey two of them at a time, but not all three. And the argument is that the least illegal thing for him to do is to ignore the debt ceiling.

21 (19m 55s):
My view is that if that were to arise the president's least unconstitutional option, the sort of least bad option would actually be to violate the debt ceiling statute

17 (20m 6s):
Like the 14th Amendment option. I think this makes a lot of legal sense. It will go to the courts and I have no idea what the, the Supreme Court would say about it. Hmm. But it has an elegance to it. And and I think it's like, if not as a matter of law, as a matter of principle, right? Like Congress has passed three laws that are contradictory. Come

20 (20m 25s):
On, come on, come on folks.

0 (20m 26s):
Fair. So it seems kind of unlikely, but another option would be ignoring the debt ceiling altogether.

17 (20m 33s):
I don't know about likely, but, but here are a couple more and see if they strike your fancy one is that you could set up new bodies to issue things that look like debt but aren't, huh? So this is something Steve Schwartz at, at Duke has proposed, and it sounds zany and fake, but this is actually how a lot of us state governments work. Most states have balanced budget amendments that prohibit them from taking out debt. And so they create these special purpose entities and then those entities issue debt and then that debt pays first off. And it's kind of scummy, but it works. And it lets them avoid their balance budget requirements.

17 (21m 14s):
And, and so the argument is that this could in turn allow the federal government to ignore the debt ceiling is is by issuing debt by another name, perhaps even more than the other options. This is a totally new debt instrument. It's unclear what the markets would value it at if they would treat it the same way as regular debt. And so there might be some, some economic ripple effects from that. And there would be a court battle. But I don't think of the same octane as just ignoring the debt ceiling would create. Come on, come

22 (21m 45s):
On, come on, come on.

17 (21m 46s):
And then the last one, are we gonna talk about minting the coin?

0 (21m 53s):
Minting the coin. Minting the coin. Very divisive in today. Explained editorial meetings.

17 (21m 58s):
Is it really? Oh man, totally. It's, it's the coolest thing that's ever happened in, in American fiscal policy. The idea which originated in a blog comment by a user under the name of Beowulf, who's actually a lawyer named Carlos Mcha. Wow. Who I, I interviewed a, a little while ago. So Carlos noticed that Congress had passed a law in 1997 that allows the treasury secretary to mint platinum coins of any denomination. This was written by then Delaware Congressman Mike Castle. When I called Mike Castle about this, he was like, yeah, we wanted to like sell some platinum coins to collectors in Japan, make, make a little bit of money.

17 (22m 42s):
It was about like the collector market in Japan.

23 (22m 44s):
This was just for small denominations, smaller denominations than the, some of the money it's being talked about. Now.

17 (22m 52s):
Carlos's idea is to use this law and have Janet Yellen mint a say trillion dollar coin.

0 (22m 60s):
I hope it's Nick Cage's face on the back of it.

24 (23m 3s):
I'm steal it.

17 (23m 4s):
It has to be

24 (23m 7s):
Steal the Declaration of Independence.

17 (23m 9s):
I feel like the other, the other way is to put Trump's face on it. And then it's like, oh, you don't, you don't like this Republicans, really? You're gonna fight us on this?

0 (23m 19s):
It's way better than an nft.

17 (23m 21s):
Oh, way, way better.

22 (23m 22s):
I'm doing my first official collection of Donald J. Trump digital trading guards. What do use the technical derm

17 (23m 30s):
Nifty. And so Janet Yellen, she mints a trillion dollar coin. She has this coin, it's worth a trillion dollars. She goes to the Federal Reserve, which she used to run Federal Reserve, owns trillions and trillions of dollars of US government debt because it, it buys it up up when it wants to lower interest rates on it to help the overall economy. Bought up a ton in 2008 and 2020 and it hasn't unloaded them all yet. So she goes and she says, I would like a trillion dollars worth of bonds, but I think j Powell would be like, yeah, this is dumb. I'll take your money. I'll give you these, these loans and then you use that debt to pay for the government. Come

20 (24m 6s):
On on, come on, come, come on, come on, come on, come on folks.

0 (24m 9s):
It sounds like a remarkable idea. It sounds like the kind of thing that a guy who calls himself be Wolff at his spare time would come up with Which of these could plausibly happen in our reality in summer fall? Who knows? 2023. Wow.

17 (24m 26s):
I think the coin is cool as hell. It is so zany that I have a kind of hard time believing Biden will go for it. My preferred of these is the least illegal option that the, the 14th amendment argument makes sense. But usually we don't let presidents just say that they think stuff is unconstitutional and then ignore it. The special purpose debt is interesting, but I worry a lot that it would be at much higher interest rates. And, and that would cause a market freak out saying, you're going to ignore this law. I think it's like, it, it, it strikes me as like a, an appropriate use of the President's authority of your job is to execute the laws.

17 (25m 9s):
These are the laws before you. They contradict each other so you make a clear statement about which of the laws you're gonna follow, given that you can't follow all

0 (25m 17s):
Of them. And as you mentioned earlier, there is a way out of this. We could just get rid of this debt ceiling that, that we instituted around the First World War. And that seems unlikely to happen in this Congress and maybe even future ones, which means that every x amount of years when it's politically expedient, we can expect to see a fight like

17 (25m 37s):
This. I think unfortunately that's right. Maybe I'm being too cynical and hopefully one day Congress will get its act together, maybe at the end of December when it's a lame duck period and no one's paying attention. Just get rid of this dumb, dumb law.

2 (26m 1s):
Dylan Matthews

0 (26m 2s):
Before him. Andrew Procop. They both write for Vox. Read him and weep@vox.com. Our show today was produced by Miles Brian Fact checked by Laura Bullard, mixed by Paul Robert Mosey and edited by Matthew Collette. He's the one who hates the trillion dollar coin on our team. He hates it so much. He asks me to tell you how much he hates it. He never asks me to tell you anything. That's how much he hates it. It's today explained.