4 (2s):
This episode is brought to you by US Cellular. There's never been a better time to switch to US Cellular because now when you do you'll get 50% off select new smart phones like the Samsung Galaxy S 10 e or the Google pixel for a great choice on a great phone. Now, that's fair US Cellular choose Fair terms apply. This episode is brought to you by HP. P HP knows that small businesses can struggle to find a balance between reaching a broad audience and building and during customer relationships. HP is here to help HP printers can help your small business stand out from the crowd with the new Officejet Pro and color LaserJet printers.

4 (47s):
You can print professional quality brochures presentations and more right from your office without ever needing a print shop visit hp.com. Get real to find the best printer for your small business. That's hp.com get real Turn takes fight for me explain if you've been paying attention to politics for the past 30 years or so, James Carville needs no introduction. If you haven't been alive for the past 30 years or so this introductions for you. Look I James it all due respect is a political hack who said very terrible things when he was working for Clinton against Barack Obama.

4 (1m 30s):
I think he said some of the same things carville's response and I'm quoting That's exactly who the fuck I am. I'm a political hack. I'm not an idea log. I'm not a purist. I am a political hack Carville hacked for Bill Clinton during his first long shot presidential campaign in the early 90s. He gained a reputation for being a shrewd and salty political strategist people nicknamed him The Ragin Cajun and he's basically been on TV ever since from hosting Crossfire to being on Fox News and getting his own Bill Hader impression on SNL. No way. We started dating. Wait a second. You dated new man in the name of Democratic party.

4 (2m 12s):
So I'm on the show. I go paddle boating on the Potomac River now doesn't matter. Why why I'm friends with some alligators James Carville as a 70 something year old white man. I'd love to get your opinion on the 370 something year old white men who are vying for the presidency right now. Look, Anything that people care about is beating Trump in the way to do that is what we're getting ready to do. It is to nominate Vice President Biden. And the reason that he still standing is people from beta evaluation at a later point. He's the best person to beat Donald Trump. That's that's what's driving this whole thing.

4 (2m 54s):
So, were you waiting for him to announced back in this time last year were you relieved when he announced that he be running? You know, I will show Michael Bennett. I mean, I thought we'd you know, but so he didn't do very well. Well doesn't matter. This is where we are. It's a better place than we thought we were going to be. I think you mentioned that to our colleague here at vaux Sean illing when you spoke to him a few weeks ago at that point Biden hadn't done very well in Iowa. I think you're right. You know, they were still counting the votes and you said to Sean that you were scared to death at the time. How come Barney look like he was going to get me might get to Milwaukee with eighteen hundred delegates and we'd have a you know, brouhaha a rift and They would be in the streets claiming.

4 (3m 36s):
It is all stolen from them and God knows what that is not going to happen now and so I am less afraid as a lot to be afraid of but I'm not afraid of Bernie Sanders getting to Milwaukee with a plurality of the delegates. It seems like what you were calling for in your conversation with our colleague. Sean Milling was for the Democratic party to get its act together and rally around a moderate candidate who could win the election just moderate this just worried that people throw. Go out in other words. If you're not Bernie Sanders, you've part of the moderate wing of the democratic party. It's a bullshit word. I don't consider myself a moderate. I consider myself a liberal, but it doesn't matter because it's just become too convenient way to describe anybody that is not Bernie Sanders and the Democratic party has taken but historically be some pretty liberal positions going into this race.

4 (4m 28s):
Do you think there's something to be said that Bernie Sanders being such a progressive could have excited a younger base and perhaps That way by taking no. No, that's the equivalent of climate denial of creationism. You're not going to change the turnout model. It's never been done and it's not going to be done. So you weren't impressed by Bernie's winning, California. No, I mean Barney can't he has no relationship with the most important constituents in a Democratic party African Americans the newest and most exciting demographic in the Democratic party had he's college educated white voters particularly women. He has no relationship with him. They came out and voted against him and drove. Has he got a third of the California Democrats?

4 (5m 7s):
I'm sorry. I'm just not that impressed. Okay. Well, let's talk about Joe for a minute here a smart man. Once said it's the economy stupid. The economy has been in pretty good shape until these coded 19 related tips recently. How does Biden do against Donald Trump in a race where Trump surely plans on bragging about how well he's done with the economy. So he inherits a country. It has 2% growth. He sticks a trillion dollars worth of stimulus. Gives a green light for every polluted to go and what do we get drum roll, please? 2.1 Trump got 46.1 in 2016.

4 (5m 49s):
The Republicans got forty four point eight in 2018. His approval on five. Thirty eight is forty three point for whatever did doesn't change this 55% of the country that wants to not be for this guy. That's a big number. We should do everything we can to maximize that number political parties don't exist to make arguments they exist. Win elections without power there is nothing. It's all a bunch of people sitting around talking to each other and cities I take your point. But Trump, of course lost the popular vote in 2016 and still won the Electoral College. So in the states that matter here, do you think people are feeling like the economy is good and thus maybe we should just vote for the incumbent or do you think they're hurting and thus Joe Biden has a strong argument all of the evidence.

4 (6m 40s):
I see is people do not want Trump back. But we got to run a strong persuasion campaign in Pennsylvania and Michigan and Wisconsin and Florida. We can't go with this Urban strategy that we are the growing body 18% of the country elects 52 Senators take that Urban strategy. The party has to have a majoritarian Instinct. We got to be skilled enough to excite our you know, most important voters American African Americans to to get our new exciting demographic out. He's college educated women and also to cut into the margins in the more Rural and small-town parts of Pennsylvania and Michigan Wisconsin places like that.

4 (7m 22s):
I think we can do that. What do you think the strongest argument Vice President Biden can make in States like, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Florida, Wisconsin my being I want to get drop out of there. You're not going to live like this anymore. You know, you're not going to be waking up to tweets and people are trying to inspire young people are not gonna have this. For example, we're going to put competent people to run the government. But I mean Democrats are hoping that Biden will convince people who voted for Donald Trump in 2016 to switch their vote back to the Democratic party. Yeah, it is the argument that we gotta get Trump out of there as strong as an argument that might appeal more to things that affect their lives personally. What you do is you talk about things that affect their lives personally you think this think that trumps done something about prescription drug prices.

4 (8m 7s):
You think they think that his tax cut went to anybody with the richest people in the country. You think that people are not so stupid that they Noted Donald Trump went to Davos and while there's in Davao said he was going to cut Medicare after he was elected again one last question good entitlements ever be on your play at some point. They will be we have tremendous growth. We're going to have tremendous growth this next year. It'll be toward the end of the year and at the right time we will take a look at that. You know, that's actually the easiest of all things if you look and probably ruin morale in a diplomatic Court tried to holler out to CDC and NIH. I don't know that don't seem very good to me we've added In a trillion dollars in debt in a functioning economy, which I don't think is a very good idea at all.

4 (8m 50s):
We've abandoned any environmental regulation. We just become to government has become a system center for fossil fuel industry. We've pitted one American against another American we've told Citizens United States that this should go back to the country that came forward to the most repulsive thing. Anybody can say about anything in this country. I think is just a violation of everything. Nobody needs to go back. Anyway you here What do you think? It says that he's got near-record approval ratings with Republican base that it's a personality cult. The Republican voter very much wants Donald Trump where he is and the way to deal with this is defeat Republican politicians and in get power and when the Senate back and you know, look at where you got to win senate seat.

4 (9m 35s):
You gotta win in North Carolina. You got to enjoy G. You got a cold, Alabama. You got a shot in Texas. You should win Arizona. He should win Colorado you now got a shot in Montana, believe it or not. You got a shot in Kansas. You probably ahead in Maine. You got a whole Michigan. That's the reality of politics. This is an opportunity that you just don't see very often in politics. I mean, we have a chance to come in if we're smart without it. We got a chance to run the table in November in your dream scenario, which is clearly a by denomination. Whom does he choose as his VP? I'm a kind of a big fan of Gretchen Whitmer. It's it's a governor of And she gave her a boulder State of the Union and she talks about things that matter to people in my own State our neighbors in Wisconsin and Ohio, Pennsylvania and all over the country wages have stagnated while CEO pay has skyrocketed.

4 (10m 31s):
So when the President says the economy is strong my question is strong for whom strong for the wealthy who are reaping rewards from tax cuts. They don't need She's very focused on issues that matter not and that's what it's about who fights for working hard working Americans Democrats. Do you know we had actual real-life experiment in 2018 where you had? I think it was 50 times that a leftist candidate challenged a liberal and 47 times in the primary too liberal run. We had the biggest margin in the history of the election. We had the highest turnout since women were granted the right to vote.

4 (11m 12s):
And you know what? We did we just talked about fundamental issues and then it went poorly until James Clyburn got up and just knock the whole Democratic body back into reality. And for that we owe him a great debt. You need to make this country. Great again. This country is great. That's right. That's not what our challenge is. I'll chalices and making the greatness of this country accessible and affordable for all if it's Healthcare. Is it accessible is it affordable education is it accessible is the fordable housing?

4 (11m 54s):
and nobody with whom I've ever worked in public life is in the more committed. to that motto that pledge that I have to my constituents. Then Joe Biden I'm a little surprised how hopeful. You are about Vice President Biden, but what should I be? Other than that? I mean bad and you know, who knows me he have a history of saying some things that are kind of strange. We choose science over fiction. We choose truth over.

4 (12m 34s):
Max poor kids are just as bright and just astounds white kids. We all these truths to be self-evident all better when my creative by go, you know, the you know the thing I wish they'd just schedule it for two events a day, you know, people are gonna vote for him. As long as you don't talk him out of it. If you agree with me go to Joe 303 300 and help me in this fight. Thank you very much. So it's his delusion. You really think it's his to lose I do. Wow. We're going to call this episode a hopeful conversation with James Carville. Give me the counter-argument. Okay. Well, we'll talk about a little bit more about the other guy after the break.

4 (13m 29s):
This episode is brought to you by US Cellular. There's never been a better time to switch to US Cellular because now when you do you'll get 50% off your choice of Select new smartphones that's amazing phones like the Samsung Galaxy S 10 e or the Google pixel for a great choice on a great phone now, that's fair US Cellular choose Fair terms apply check US Cellular.com for details. This episode is brought to you by HP. HP believes that printing for your small business should be easy and convenient to do from whatever device you have on hand. So they created an app just for that.

4 (14m 10s):
The HP smart app is the best in class Mobile Print app that streamlines the way you set up and used your HP printer. Now, you can print from your phone or tablet instantly from anywhere see a contract pop up in your email where you're grabbing coffee hit print on your phone and it'll be waiting in the tray when you get home. Or use the cameras can feature to capture copies of contracts you sign on the go and automatically send a copy to print out your home office. The HP smart app is designed to work with most new HP printers. The HP smart app is available in Google Play or the App Store visit hp.com. Get real to shop compatible printers. That's hp.com. Get real.

4 (14m 59s):
The counter-argument is the Electoral College. It's the most persuasive digital strategy that in the history of face book. It's through an impeachment Scandal and through any number of lies and and disinformation Donald Trump. His support hasn't wavered an Iota with his base it right. It said party 3.4. You know, what if he gets forty three point four, we're gonna do very well. Very very very well. I'm working on a project. We focusing on 77 counties in Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, and we can do a lot better there. There's some daylight for Democrats, you know, most of us became my generation became Democrats because we didn't pay to anybody we Embrace was the reason I became a Democrat, but I'm a rule White And for somehow another a lot of the urbanists, I don't mean the people live in urban areas.

4 (15m 56s):
I live in urban area. I mean that kind of thought process that all Rule people of both stupid. That's just not true. Some of us who went to college some didn't some of us are married. Some of us are not some go to church some don't different sexual orientations is all kinds of thing Rule people who bought just like everybody else. You can't lump them all together and we have lost large parts of Rural America and they have outside. Political problem because the Senate an electoral college so we have to go in and compete. Yeah. Well I shouldn't be what do you think the Republican Party looks like after Donald Trump? That's a good question and it's a topic of much discussion. I think the trumpism outlives Trump.

4 (16m 38s):
I think he has hit our responsive nerve would forty percent of the country. And the question is after he leaves who's going to beat the air to trumpism been my guess is going to be from pale, but I don't know that or one of his kids. Yeah. I don't know if the who's dumb but a kid into the daddy but his clothes. I just want to know he clearly hit on something that is very persuasive and compelling to as you said, you know Thirty forty percent of the country and the party has so coalesced around it. You got very few people who dare oppose him, you know, Mitt Romney is one that just seems like it will outlive him if Biden wins.

4 (17m 20s):
Yeah, I kind of great work if Biden wins and the Democrats don't take the Senate then you'll just have this lingering trumpism there if Biden wins and they're Democrats do take the Senate then I really wonder what the Republicans argument is in the next few years. The problem is I can't get off the hamster wheel because shot the you know, they used to talk around the topic Trump spoke directly to it and by the topic I mean race, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you know we did this episode last week about Brad parse Cal who's the head of Trumps re-election campaign and kind of talked about some of the dirty tricks that he and his cohorts have been using on Facebook and one of the questions I asked McKay coppins from the Atlantic who reported this piece about Brad was one of the Democrats going to do if this is the way Donald Trump plans on getting re-elected by what Steve Bannon called flooding The Zone with shit.

4 (18m 14s):
Yeah. Very good question. Do you think the Democrats got to get their hands dirty to win this election online? Well, first of all, I'm 75. I'm technologically Beyond incompetent. All right. I had a first in my life. I was talking on a cell phone and I was looking for my cell phone in my back pocket are these all arguments against electing 70 year old men to be president? And like I said, the only organization of world and that ears and has been run by a tea roses a Roman Catholic Church. I just What we got? Yeah, I guess you know, it's you know to say in the Marine Corps wish in one hand and crap another see which one fills up too fast.

4 (18m 54s):
Okay. What do you think democrats should be doing here if Donald Trump's going to run a dirty digital campaign. What do Democrats do? What is what is Vice President Biden to who knows? What is Bernie Sanders do it is undoubtedly true that we've way behind and I hope that somebody on the Biden team when he get up there people. A good at this that a Democrats a lot of Technology people and whatever it entails that we have to have a crash course in this and get up and running because they've invested a lot of money in this and they got tons and tons of data they can follow people buy cell phones and stuff. I mean every with some people are telling me is is amazing much of it.

4 (19m 34s):
I suspect is illegal. I think we ought to be Buried buried bite back. If Ike bag hard use whatever we can just follow the law. Do you think it's a Michelle Obama situation where when they go low we go high or do you think the Democrats go load to I would have the whole body is a target low and high I would probably use my foot somewhere where the top of the legs meet. You would insert your foot somewhere. Yeah, you can guess where I think we should insert it. Is it fair to say that you're married to a republican? I don't discuss my wife. I think she changed her registration to libertarian.

4 (20m 15s):
I don't know if she's changing back to Republican. But why let her speak for herself. I asked the question not to bring your wife into this but to suggest that I don't know. It feels like your marriage is suggest that we aren't gone so far the people who disagree with each other can't you know share a conversation share a household share share a life, but sometimes the past Three years. It's really felt that way that that we just can't we forgotten how to talk to each other. Do you think there's a chance here to repair that I do? I don't think people want to live like this. I really don't why do you think you see in this record turnout and we don't yet understand 2018 produce the highest turnout since women were granted the right to vote and we lived in a world where we just assume that declining voter interest in participation was the future of the country.

4 (21m 5s):
Mr. Coble, that's all we got. Thanks so much for making time for us. I really appreciate it. That's all right. It was fun. It was a thorough and complete interview and I enjoyed doing it. Thank you. We will be a touch will try call you on November 3rd if Donald Trump wins re-election. I'm sure you will. I'm sure you got a recording of This you play it back in my face, but that's alright. It won't be the first time. I've been wrong. I'm Sean Rama SRI Ram. This has been a hopeful conversation with James Carville. You seem really happy cause I'm happy steps almost summer time pretty soon.

4 (21m 46s):
I'll be back in Louisiana drinking sweet tea on the porch with my high-school buddy alligator job. Now. Why do you call him alligator Joe because he's an alligator.