0 (0s):
I'm Noel king it's today explained the title of today's show is Joe Biden's tampon shortage.

1 (7s):
Come on, man.

0 (9s):
We are kidding. We're kidding. Not about shortages. There is a tampon shortage in the U S right now, there is no shortage of shortages. You've heard us talk about the baby formula. There's a Serrata shortage. There's a worker shortage. President Biden. Didn't do the tampon shortage, but that hasn't mattered for his job approval rating, which is around 33%. And according to a new poll from the New York times, 64% of Democrats say they would prefer a different candidate. Next time around

3 (38s):
Nothing has built. Nothing is back and nothing is better with this administration. This tampon shortage is impacting 34 million women across this country. And the prices are up at least 10% so far

0 (52s):
Coming up. Why you can't find tampons and why the president will take the blame.

1 (58s):
Give me a little break here.

Avast (60s):
Support for today's show comes from Avast. Here's what a vast wants they want to help you travel across the internet securely across the internet, around the internet, through the internet. They're a vast one program gives you the ability to take control of your safety and privacy. Online from data breach monitoring to firewall protection, to PC speed up Avast. One wants you to feel at ease. When you get on the internet with a vast one, you can confidently take control of your online world without worrying about the following viruses, phishing attacks, ransomware hacking attempts, and many other cyber crimes. Learn more about Avast. one@avast.com.

4 (1m 55s):
It is literally everyone on their period or what's going on here.

0 (2m 0s):
Everyone isn't literally on their period. What's going on here is a tampon shortage. So conspicuous that a question about it recently made the white house press briefing.

5 (2m 10s):
There is a shortage of tampons. And just wondering if that is on the white house's radar. I mean, is that something that the white house is concerned, could turn into a full blown crisis and are there any other sort of essential products that the administration is watching closely that could come down the pipeline? So another shortage crisis.

6 (2m 28s):
That's a great question. I would have to check in with the team on what they're tracking. I don't have a list for you right now, but I would just have to track it with the team.

0 (2m 35s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king, Sharon Turlock of the wall street journal covers consumer products, including tampons, easy to underestimate until they're hard to find and a perfect avatar for our supply chain crises.

7 (2m 49s):
Well, tampons, it's kind of important to know they're a simple product. They're a small product, but they're actually somewhat high tech product they're made from something called a non-woven, which is layers of material that are bound together by a more complicated kind of substance than just, you know, clothes or toilet paper,

0 (3m 9s):
More complicated than clothes.

7 (3m 10s):
They are complicated and they require both plastics and cotton and they need to be put together. So they require labor. So, you know, I'm not sure that the tampon shortage is much different from a lot of the other shortages that we've seen in terms of the causes, the plants all over are struggling to find labor there's holdups, getting raw materials. There was some kind of specific issues with one of the big tampon making factories, but largely this stands out because it's a product that a lot of people need. And that's very personal and very important as opposed to, you know, say Serratia or Gatorade.

0 (3m 47s):
I wonder if you could tell me a little bit more about the holdups getting raw materials what's going on there

7 (3m 52s):
Out the supply chain. There's this confluence of both extreme demands. I mean, all throughout the pandemic, we all bought a lot in America, all over the world. So we just bought more stuff.

8 (4m 4s):
Retail sales jumped unexpectedly in August as the Delta variant caused Americans to once again, change where they spend their money.

7 (4m 12s):
And while we're buying more stuff, all the plants that are producing raw materials, sending things, there's these huge long jams in shipping containers, aren't moving, things are more expensive. And so you have both a huge increase in demand, coupled with more complications making things.

0 (4m 28s):
Can you explain the story of how the supply chain broke during the pandemic?

7 (4m 33s):
So much of what we buy and the things that we use to make what we buy are based in countries that were just hit incredibly hard by COVID early on

9 (4m 43s):
The line, snake outside Beijing supermarkets as residents, snap up groceries, panic buying over fears of a lockdown

7 (4m 52s):
In China, particularly both obviously early in the pandemic, but just recently with the shutdown of Shanghai to try to contain COVID, there was just major disruptions and that was kind of the start of things. And then along with these disruptions and the influx of demand, it's now harder to get things out of countries. And we see, you know, the cost of shipping in a shipping container go from $2,000 to $10,000. Higher costs also leads to supply shortages. So there's really been this domino effect that really started with COVID and then just got worse, for example, the diaper shortage. So any type of disruption to a plant can lead to a shortage.

7 (5m 35s):
And a lot of that goes back to how our manufacturing systems work, particularly in America.

0 (5m 41s):
So are we seeing shortages of in the U S right now, I could give you a couple of examples that seem like shortages to me, but you're the expert what's actually in tort supply.

7 (5m 50s):
So microchip, so anything that requires a microchip, which is almost any electrical device these days, there's clearly been a big shortage in that. I mean the world of consumer goods, there's a shortage in baby formula, which is quite severe also because it's a very essential product. There is a shortage in Serratia,

10 (6m 9s):
Vaughn food says it has temporarily halted, Serratia production and the shortage. Cause last through the summer,

11 (6m 14s):
Here's something you don't see in many Colorado Springs stores lately, a decent supply of Gatorade.

7 (6m 22s):
There's just shortages kind of sporadically in a lot of products.

0 (6m 26s):
And so as a consumer, I'm tempted to stamp my foot and say, you know, it's been two and a half years. Why aren't we closer to normal?

7 (6m 34s):
We have what I think a lot of supply chain experts have said and believe is a very brittle supply chain. You've probably heard the term just in time or lean manufacturing,

12 (6m 45s):
An analogy that's frequently used with just in time involves water and rocks in a lake water represents inventory. And the rocks represent problems. What are we are to do is to drain the inventory until we expose the rock. And then we are to fix the problem

7 (7m 1s):
That really started decades ago. Initially in the auto industry, it was kind of popularized one of the easiest and most common ways for companies to improve their profitability is to cut out waste. So that means they're not keeping things in inventory, which means their suppliers don't have big inventories. They don't have big warehouses full of stuff that's waiting to be used. So when there's a spike in demands, there's not all this excess kind of capacity and material around. And so if you have this happening for 20 years, one of the things companies are trying to do is make sure that they're not relying on just one supplier. When I covered the auto industry, more than 10 years ago, there was a tsunami in Japan that affected a company that made a certain color of paint.

7 (7m 49s):
And it led to like a global auto shortage because nobody could make cars of this pink color because of this one plant. And so when you are really reliant on a small number of suppliers, and when those suppliers have to keep inventory and capacity low, it's not easy to bulk up when that's needed.

0 (8m 10s):
Is there an argument that the United States being a big country that is full of resources that we should just start relying on ourselves and less on other countries so that we don't have to worry about supply chains.

7 (8m 26s):
There are certainly people making that argument. Certainly there are companies that are doing that. If you look at numbers on what they would call reassuring. So that would be companies that had operations or factories overseas, bringing them back to the U S or even north America. That is definitely on the rise. There's a lot of advocates for that. A lot of manufacturing advocates. And I think it widely varies by industry, by company, how realistic that actually is.

13 (8m 53s):
<inaudible> our country, not in

14 (8m 56s):
China, the consumer electronics world was really never here. And so it's not a matter of bringing it back. It's a matter of starting it.

7 (9m 3s):
We've definitely seen the chip companies bring operations back here because that's a case where there's high margin products and the stakes are very high when there's supply chain issues. So we've seen that in the consumer products world, we're seeing some particularly in the, in the area of like fragrances and perfumes, some of that business being brought back here. So there's definitely packets where that's happening. There are a lot of states that are really trying to position themselves. Ohio is a state that's has a whole initiative designed to try to bring back suppliers and manufacturers to the U S

15 (9m 36s):
There's. There's a lot of manufacturing onshoring or reassuring. And then there's economic development activity. We've never seen this level of activity here in central Ohio.

16 (9m 45s):
Ohio is better for businesses and employees because we're not built for following us. We're building for leaders.

0 (9m 53s):
Are we going to get better at predicting the next shortage? Why haven't we after two and a half years gotten any better at predicting, what's going to be the next thing that's difficult to find.

7 (10m 5s):
I think part of it is that this is uncharted territory. I mean, certainly there's been pandemics and there's been weather disasters and no inflation has happened before, but all at once, these are dynamics that haven't been seen. And I think like, you know, a lot of the forecasting is just, it's gotten very hard to forecast and predict and also difficult to respond quickly.

0 (10m 27s):
And so if I ask you, when will the shortages end, are you just going to laugh at me

7 (10m 31s):
Early in the pandemic? I cover Clorox and Clorox would say, you know, we think wipes will be in better supply and they give a date and that date would come. And I think companies very quickly learned that you really can't predict partly because there's so many things disrupting the supply chains. So you can have a plan to bring extra suppliers online. You can have a plan to hire X workers in X amount of time, but it's almost impossible to predict when that will happen,

0 (11m 1s):
Who is going to get blamed for all of this, for the shortages of tampons and other things.

7 (11m 7s):
It seems like politically who's ever in charge just as kind of the rule of human behavior will be who gets blamed.

2 (11m 18s):
Let's get this straight.

7 (11m 23s):
And, you know, I think it'll be interesting to see how long consumer memories are on this stuff. I mean, certainly with toilet paper and paper towel, I don't think consumers held a grudge against the companies that make those. I think they see these circumstances as really unusual. It'll be interesting to see how long this stays in the mind of consumers

0 (11m 42s):
And possibly good for president Biden. If all of our memories are just a little bit shorter on this

7 (11m 52s):
1 520

17 (12m 12s):
5,525,000

0 (12m 25s):
I'm Shereen Ghafari

18 (12m 26s):
And I'm Alex Heath, we're hosting land of the giants, a podcast about the biggest tech companies of our time. This season Metta formerly known as Facebook. It's a company in a particularly controversial and vulnerable moment. Mark Zuckerberg is placing a multi-billion dollar bet towards an imagined metaverse future. Meanwhile, the rest of us are still grappling with what he's already built

0 (12m 50s):
This season. We're going to talk to the executive steering Meadows, biggest decisions, and you'll hear from some of Meta's sharpest critics. It's former employees

18 (12m 59s):
We'll explore wise. Zuckerberg is taking the company in a bold direction and how Facebook's past will inform its future

0 (13m 6s):
Land of the giants. The Facebook meta disruption from Recode, the verge and the Vox media podcast network.

18 (13m 13s):
This season is sponsored by Klayvio Subscribe for free wherever you listen and get our first episode on Wednesday, July 13th,

Checkout.Com (13m 24s):
Online shopping has changed the way a lot of us live. I just bought a 50 pound bag of mulch online. No car made it easy delivered right to my door. The ability to go on a computer and buy almost anything in the world is extraordinary, but there are always bumps that can be smoothed out. That is what the mulch is for. In fact, if your business is trying to improve payment, performance, checkout.com can help check out.com is a leading digital global payment solutions provider for brands like sheen, Patrion, and Sony electronics with dedicated teams full of local expertise in 19 offices, across five continents, it's built with performance, scalability and speed in mind. payments have changed a lot over the years. Checkout's flexible system provides insights that help you get smart about your payments performance. You can rely on their expertise as you navigate an ever shifting digital world. Discover how checkout.com can help your business thrive at checkout.com/explained that's checkout.com/explained

19 (14m 41s):
New pedal soft Tampax tampons. So easy to use. It'll get you off pads forever.

0 (14m 46s):
Today explained we're back. Robert S McElvane is a professor of history at Millsaps college in Mississippi. He's a historian of the great depression and right after the great recession, he wrote a piece in Politico that included this crisp observation. When there is an economic collapse in the United States, the main factor that determines who Americans blame is timing, meaning the person who is unlucky enough in that moment to be the president is going to take the hit. Have you seen anything down there in Mississippi that you think personally blames Joe Biden for what's happening with the economy and the state of the country right now?

20 (15m 25s):
Well, in Mississippi, the vast majority of white people would blame Joe Biden for anything at any time. So that's probably not a very good gauge

21 (15m 35s):
Precedent. Truett still tries to spin it as the economy is doing good Mississippians. Aren't buying that it is not doing good in Mississippi or anywhere else in the country,

20 (15m 48s):
But certainly people blaming Biden seems to be spreading across the country. The person who's in charge is kind of the easiest target, regardless of whether the president at a given time has that much to do with it. He's seen as the one in charge of the economy,

14 (16m 6s):
Biden gave a talk this morning, blamed everybody else on inflation. He took no responsibility and has no plan.

20 (16m 12s):
Presidents certainly have something to do with the economy, but usually not all that much. What they do is create the conditions in which the market can operate and the economy can grow. But a lot of other things intervene and sometimes when something goes wrong, it is the president's fault. Sometimes it doesn't

0 (16m 38s):
Does an American president have any control over a globalized economy in which we rely on very long supply chains for very basic things.

20 (16m 49s):
Not that much, this is a, of course, something that's been developing over decades of much more globalization, depending on manufacturers and other parts of the world and the pandemic disrupted that enormously

22 (17m 5s):
Good afternoon. And we're coming on the air because right now president Biden is set to sign his landmark $1.9 trillion COVID relief.

20 (17m 12s):
And some of the things that the Biden administration did have contributed to inflation

23 (17m 20s):
Democrats independence, our Republican friends have made it clear the people out there made it clear. They strongly support the American rescue plan.

20 (17m 30s):
Although I think the vast majority of the inflation is from other causes, but the spending programs that really started under Trump during the pandemic, the single,

13 (17m 41s):
The biggest economic relief package in American history. And I must say, or any other package by the way,

20 (17m 47s):
But then we're further and under Biden were essential for people to be able to survive and relatively prosper during those terrible times in the pandemic. But the result of that was a good deal of pent up demand. President Biden has done some things to deal with supply chain problems. For instance, last year in the latter part of the year with Christmas coming, doing things to allow the ships off California, to be unloaded more quickly getting 24 hour shifts. And that sort of thing,

24 (18m 25s):
President Biden says the deal has been worked out. So not only will the port and union start operating 24 7 major companies like FedEx and ups will also expanded their hours.

20 (18m 36s):
But one of the problems there is that the political situation, his opponents don't want don't really want the problem to be solved. I mean, probably the most striking example of this was Senator Rick Scott, who was the chairman of the Republican Senate campaign committee a few months ago, said inflation is a gold mine for us. He was gleeful about it.

25 (19m 0s):
People are suffering and paying more. And the Senator from Florida says it's a gold mine for the Republicans.

20 (19m 6s):
So with the Congress as evenly divided, as it is, it's very difficult to get things done.

0 (19m 14s):
What have we seen this before? When have we seen economic turmoil and a precedent blamed for it?

20 (19m 21s):
The largest economic collapse occurred under Herbert Hoover back in starting in 1929 and going into the 1930s But he came in and saying that we are within sight of the day when with the help of God, poverty will be forever banished from the land. Well, a year later it was a another P word that was banished from the land prosperity. The stock market crashed and it caused the great depression, but it did signal great weakness in the economy.

20 (20m 0s):
Hoover tried to deal with it.

26 (20m 3s):
The federal government is taking each part in the aid to unemployment through the advancement and enlargement of public works in all parts of the nation.

20 (20m 12s):
But one of the problems with Hoover was that he was a true believer in certain things in, in classical economics, in balanced budgets. Hoover didn't actually say this, but what his policy amounted to was take the idea because he thought there was only one. Try it. If it doesn't work, try it again. If it doesn't work, try it again. And again, and again, he wouldn't change. Hoover was never willing to spend the way things were needed for the economy. He also believed in any kind of direct relief to people would make them dependent and lazy. And so he didn't want to do that

27 (20m 53s):
The democratic party and been an effort to implant in the thinking the mind through deliberate misrepresentation, the colossal falsehood that the Republican party is responsible for this worldwide. Fantastic.

20 (21m 11s):
By the time the election in 1932 came along, Hoover had been presiding over an economic disaster for three years, and it was clear to people that he was to blame. If not for the start of it, for not solving it

27 (21m 32s):
Well, first of all, let me put my firm belief that the only thing we have, so

0 (21m 43s):
FDR wiped the floor with Hoover in that election. And then you zoom ahead a couple decades. And president Jimmy Carter dealt with both inflation and shortages, including a gas shortage like Joe Biden, he got blamed. Did Carter deal with it? Well,

20 (21m 58s):
Well, Carter came in and tried to deal with the inflation in a variety of ways he gave speeches, but he was not very good in speaking over television. None of that did that much good. Eventually in 1979, he gave a televised address which came to be called the malaise speech. Although he never used the word Malays in the speech

28 (22m 24s):
Too many of us now tend to worship self-indulgence and consumption human identity is no longer defined by what one does, but by what one owns.

20 (22m 43s):
And he was kind of right about it, that people had gotten selfish and materialistic, but the way it came across as he was blaming the American people, that is not the way to, to win in such a situation.

29 (22m 57s):
Middle-class families had been struggling for a decade before I came in off.

20 (23m 2s):
I'd like to contrast that with the situation with the collapse in 2008, Obama came in and even at the time I was writing about the, the timing of this is not good because George W. Bush was presiding over it, but it was going to continue into Obama's early term

29 (23m 25s):
For 19 months. What we have done is steadily worked to avoid a depression, to take an economy that was contracting rapidly and making it grow again.

20 (23m 38s):
People's memories would be that Obama had been president while this was going on. So timing is very important.

0 (23m 45s):
Okay. So the economy took down, Herbert Hoover, it took down Jimmy Carter. What does history suggest will happen to Joe Biden and the Democrats in the 2022 midterms?

20 (23m 56s):
The situation is not at all good for Democrats. There are several things going on right now that I think if Democrats and opportunity, if they could get their message together, which Democrats have a very hard time doing hardly ever can. In addition to the questions about saving democracy, you have a couple of other really big issues. One being abortion. Abortion has always helped Republicans and they years not immediately after the Roe decision, but going a few years after that because the people who were one issue, voters on abortion were those who wanted to end women's control over their own bodies and women and men who believed that women own their own bodies are much more likely to vote on that than they have in the past.

20 (24m 56s):
The gun issue was also going to be something that's very big and there are others as well that I think taken together could counteract the economic difficulties. One of the things about the economic situation itself, things change rapidly. As we've seen, for instance, with Putin's invasion, changing a lot of things, there's still a, what is it about five months, a little less than five months. Inflation is going to still be bad by election day, but if it is moving in the right direction, I think it will be a less powerful issue. By that time,

0 (25m 49s):
Professor Robert McElveen, he has a new book out called the times. They were a change in 1964, the year the sixties arrived. And the battle lines of today were drawn. Today's show was produced by Tory Domingas and Halima Shaw. It was edited by almond L Saudi and Matthew collect. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard. It was engineered by Paul mousey study explained I'm Noel king by bypaths.