3 (1s):
This episode is supported by hm a VPN if you've ever sheepishly asked a barista, what's the Wi-Fi password? You need a VPN? Because if you're browsing and clicking and streaming without one, your data is not as secure as it should be if you want a fast reliable VPN that doesn't log your data as you use it. You've got to check out hm a VPN. Hm a VPN encrypts your connection and protects your information from hackers. So your online comings and goings take protected and private no matter what it works across every

1 (30s):
I see you used to fiddle around on the

3 (32s):
internet and allows you to connect up to five gadgets at once. This isn't rocket science. Hm a VPN will keep you safe online plain and simple to sign up for hm a VPN now for 75% off go to hm a VPN.com

2 (46s):
deal. This episode is sponsored by a central talks a brand new podcast brought to you by SED a leading health and hygiene company essential talks is all about breaking barriers to well-being and shedding light on stigmas regarding health and hygiene fueled by ssds extensive Global Research the podcast explore stigmas all over the world about things like hand hygiene menstruation and incontinence and how we can counter them to create a healthier more Equitable world Listen to a central talks this fall on Spotify iTunes or wherever you listen to

1 (1m 21s):
podcasts. new episodes dropping in October and November Joseph

3 (1m 39s):
Robinette Biden Jr. Has won the presidency the Box Newsroom made the call this Friday morning in partnership with our election calling analysts over at decision desk. Yes. Donald Trump is going to challenge it heck. He's already trying to steal it, but you shouldn't be surprised Donald Trump won the election in 2016, and he never fully accepted those results. There's plenty of time to talk about the challenges and But on today's show we're going to talk about this historic moment because despite Joe Biden and Donald Trump being too powerful. Seven year old white guys. They really couldn't be more different one is a reality TV star in porn star hounding grab them by the egomaniac and the other is something even worse a career politician.

1 (2m 32s):
I'm Joe Biden, and I'm a candidate. The United States Senate politicians have done such a job in the people of the people don't believe them anymore. And I'd like a shot at changing

3 (2m 42s):
that when he was elected to the Senate. He was not old enough to serve in the Senate

1 (2m 46s):
Biden is a Democrat was 29 years of age but will turn 30 on the 20th of November and thus will be constitutionally eligible to serve for the win.

3 (2m 54s):
He is not a great man of History kind of figure he is not an I alone can fix it kind of mine. He's lost a bunch of presidential elections. Has not gotten things he wanted to get there

1 (3m 6s):
is one less candidate in the race for the presidency tonight Delaware. Senator

2 (3m 10s):
Joseph Biden dropped out of the hunt today saying

1 (3m 13s):
the disclosures about his plagiarism in law school made it impossible for him to

3 (3m 17s):
continue. He is not some unique force on the American scene, but he's somebody who in a funny way holds together a lot of the contradictions of the American political system in himself fairly. Well, I promise

1 (3m 29s):
you

3 (3m 30s):
the president has a big stick which I think turned out to be be the kind of thing that does not work in most election seasons and turn out to be a good foil to Donald Trump in this particular election season. It's a bit of an awkward place to start a story but his political life begins with tragedy. This is a part of Biden's life that it is hard to look at directly in the face. So he's married his two sons and a daughter and Biden has not yet been seated in the Senate. I

1 (4m 7s):
was down here in Washington interviewing prospective staff and I got the call. There was a slight accident and his wife is coming home with her children.

3 (4m 16s):
In the

1 (4m 16s):
car all their Christmas shopping

3 (4m 18s):
and her car is T-boned

1 (4m 21s):
pulled out of an intersection or semi-rural part of our state tractor trailer coming down a hill broadside of them my wife and daughter were on one side of the car and they were they were killed immediately. My son Beau wasn't a body cast ankles to neck both arms both legs and my other son Hunter had a fractured skull

3 (4m 46s):
and And he basically calls Mike Mansfield then the Senate Democratic leader. And he says I can't do this. Like I have to be here for my children. I'm going to step down and Mansfield just says I totally get that. Let's just wait.

1 (5m 4s):
But let's just not make a decision right now. At what point did you decide to stay in the Senate? You know, I never made the decision in the sense. It just kept rolling on. I

3 (5m 16s):
mean what it said it kind of closes ranks around us like young man who was about to enter it in a hurry and now has had this terrible terrible tragedy.

1 (5m 25s):
They really just kept me busy it Mansfield happen report to him once a week on some sort of assignment looking back on. They just taking my pulse. I was a 30 year old kid just turned 30

3 (5m 35s):
and but they put people who he doesn't agree with our For him people who he does agree with go above and beyond they come visit him and sit with him and work with him and protect him that I think forges him in a really profound way and forges his deep belief really deep belief that there's always more to your relationships with your political colleagues and your political opponents then policy and ideologies. She would suggest

1 (6m 3s):
they just kept me engaged and kept pulling me in and In a sense it probably it was probably the best thing that ever happened

3 (6m 13s):
to me. So what kind of Senator does that make him especially in these early years that we don't really talk about as much the the 70s and the early 80s Joe Biden in this period is somebody who is coming up in a senate where the best thing you can possibly be as a dealmaker. He operates as a Centrist Democrat at a time when there's a real conservative wing of the democratic party, which he is not part of and a real liberal wing of the democratic party, which he is not part of he's somebody who is trying to chart like this middle path of How do you win over voters who feel that America is changing too fast, you know liberal on some issues but but still kind of traditionalist in a little bit socially conservative and I wouldn't say he always comes down in the right place on this.

3 (6m 57s):
By the way. I again, Joe Biden is not a politician who for most of his career would make my Hall of Fame list. But but this is what he's trying to do Joe Biden operates in this period And what I would say is a very conventional political stance trying to like Sure some that Kennedy magic in the 70s and the 80s as Republicans have figured out what appears to be a politically effective like backlash response to the Civil Rights Movement the women's rights movement and just the generalized state of American culture and Fracture. Is it his centrism that leads to these positions or decisions? He's been criticized for lately

1 (7m 37s):
this day. I regret I couldn't come up with a way to get her a kind of hearing she deserved giving the courage she shows. Showed by reaching out to

3 (7m 46s):
us the way he handled the Anita Hill hearings or proudly working with segregationists. So I

1 (7m 52s):
was in a caucus with James o Eastland Biden

3 (7m 55s):
said, he never called me boy. He always called me son. At least there was some civility we got things done. We didn't agree on much of anything. We got things done or his support for a crime bill that's been, you know widely

1 (8m 7s):
criticized. This is by far and away the most significant Federal effort to deal with violent crime in America that has ever been undertaken in the United States Senate ever.

3 (8m 23s):
Biden has been on opposite sides of a lot of these issues. And so there's a way in which in politics we look they're like, haha hypocrisy. It's actually sort of bigger tent dish like biting gets you if on the one hand you're worried about not to use it in its euphemistic term, but literally like Law & Order you're worried about riots you're worried about with enough. There's going to be safety in your in your cities like biting. Come from an era in politics when urban riots are much more present thing and also by then was the number two to the first black president. He has seen racism in his career. He has seen it directed against somebody he served and loved and he believes it like America has a reckoning get to face. And so the thing that I didn't rise to do in a way a lot of other people are not quite able to is hold both of those things together, right?

3 (9m 6s):
I understand you and the fears you have and also we need to move forward and if I can do it you can do it, isn't it interesting though that this Politician who can sort of be anything to anyone he can be too liberal. He can be too conservative. He can push Anita Hill around and also pick Kamala Harris and he can sponsor the crime bill, but be Barack Obama's bestie, isn't it interesting that he didn't unite more of this country in this election. Look Donald Trump and I think is a really important thing for people to keep in mind. He didn't weaken from 2016 to 2020 as many people thought he would what Biden did was He built a much bigger Coalition than Democrats had in 2016.

3 (9m 48s):
It looks like he's going to have a bigger margin over Donald Trump. Then Brock Obama had over Mitt Romney and the popular vote bigger than George w-- Bush had over John Kerry. So in a moment when there is a clear strength in the Republican Coalition, right when they really are able to turn out voters and then have this huge advantage in the Electoral College by then was able to hold together a very fractious Democratic coalition. With Donald Trump's help as a mobilizing figure that went from Bernie Sanders all the way on the left to Trump skeptical Republicans all the way on the right. I actually think it's a mistake to think that what buying did here was not difficult.

3 (10m 28s):
There's like, you know fewer people on this planet who have more experience working within and with the United States Senate then Joe Biden and it's looking like he'll have to work with a republican controlled United States Senate, of course that might change but it's Unlikely, will he be able to get anything done? But the million-dollar question certainly at this point anything probably if you need a Democrat who can cut deals with Mitch McConnell, there's probably no Democrat in the country with a better record of that than Joe Biden for better and For Worse from the New Castle County Council to the US Senate to the White House. Joe Biden Jr. Has forged a uniquely American

1 (11m 10s):
story and it's far from over.

3 (11m 14s):
Enough done. No enough time. I climate change now enough done to make our health care System decent know enough done to make sure the right to vote is really a right. And then although it's get counted and the DC get statehood and Puerto Rico's offered statehood and on and on and on all these things. We really need to do know Joe Biden if he's with Mitch McConnell Republican Senate is going to be highly constrained and now Biden is a legislator. Able to make deals. So I think to the extent like that is a reality. It isn't that I think somebody else could do it better. It's I actually think Biden will get as much as possible done in that space. And by the way that might end up being he does some things other people don't like pretty good on the on the left, but Mitch McConnell is Mitch McConnell.

3 (12m 1s):
I don't think he's going to have some great Epiphany after this election. And so the FDR level agenda that Biden and the Democrats were thinking about if they took back the Senate is not going to Happen unless they win these Georgia runoffs and actually take it back or they're able to convince something like this murkowski to change parties while I'll be a Democratic candidate. I will be an American president. I'll

1 (12m 25s):
work hard for those who didn't support me as hard for them as I did for those who did vote for me. That's the job of a president to represent

3 (12m 34s):
all of us electing Joe Biden to the presidency doesn't solve our problems. It's also problem Donald Trump being president. That's the problem. It solves. And there's a huge number of insanely difficult governance and political culture problems. We still face and they will be made harder Easier. By the way, the Senate shakes out by the way household definitely shakes out will be meet harder and easier by the way, the key players bite in but not only by then act and react. This is a moment when the problem with Trump is it he created this obstruction in the government or the work couldn't even begin getting him out of there and putting Biden and his team in Means of work can begin as with thank you.

3 (13m 21s):
All right. Thank you more in a minute on today

1 (13m 28s):
explained.

3 (13m 47s):
Support for the show today comes from all birds. They've got a new apparel line and all their new tops and outerwear are made from the same premium natural materials that make their shoes. So great. We're talking Merino wool eucalyptus fiber a new naturally derived fiber called kaitos, and that's actually extracted from discarded crab shells to reduce odor and keep you fresh all day. Day, yeah, I felt one of their new t-shirts once it's a the tree no XO t-shirt and it was real soft. So you think crab shells and you know, feel fear Don't Be Afraid with all birds.

3 (14m 29s):
You can feel confident knowing you're wearing a product that's doing right by you and the planet if you're looking to get a head start on holiday gifting this year head to all birds.com today for the perfect gift to give and In better, maybe receive na givings better who

1 (14m 47s):
we getting. This is Advertiser content. We now have 2.3 million people incarcerated in America

3 (15m 2s):
less than seven percent of them

1 (15m 5s):
are incarcerated for violent crime. That's attorney Jeffrey Robinson director of the ACLU trone Center for justice and equality his work inspired the making of who we are a podcast by Ben & Jerry's and produced by Vox creative who we are a Chronicle of racism in Car is hosted by Peabody award-winning journalist Carvel

3 (15m 26s):
Wallace. Surely you knew this was a racist country. What does that mean for us today?

2 (15m 32s):
The prison population in the United States has increased seven hundred percent since 1970. Black Americans make up almost 40% of it.

3 (15m 40s):
We didn't get here by

1 (15m 42s):
accident. I didn't know these things because I hadn't been taught them. And then the question is why wasn't I taught them because this information it may be hidden, but it's hiding in plain sight who we are takes historic look at the disease of racism in America and traces it back to its tipping points. This includes the Tipping Point. We're at today. I think Americans are watching and thinking and looking at this issue in ways, they never have before and that's why I say, this is our last best. Chance because if we don't get it, right this time where America is headed is someplace. I don't think anybody wants to go.

1 (16m 25s):
How do we make our last best chance count Listen to Who We Are a podcast by Ben & Jerry's and produced by box creative now streaming wherever you get your

3 (16m 33s):
podcasts. This election was particularly long and increasingly gnarly pandemic economy protests. Remember that one debate and the president got Corona. I think the historic choice of Kamala Harris as Joe Biden is vice president had one maybe two days in the spotlight before it was just sort of Forgotten. What kind of

2 (17m 2s):
like pick your first right

3 (17m 3s):
Melanie Mason from the LA Times remembers? I mean, she's the first woman to be Vice

2 (17m 8s):
President should also the first black person. To be vice president. She's also the first Asian-American person to be vice president first indian-american and then you can really sort of get into a lot of intersectionality here. I mean the fact that she and her husband Doug will be the first multiracial couple to be in these executive positions And so there's just the sort of breadth of experience which I think is really reflected in the country at large but has not been reflected in the leadership for so long that a lot of people can see themselves in Kamala Harris who couldn't see themselves otherwise In the president or vice-president

3 (17m 42s):
where this our story begin?

2 (17m 43s):
Well her Story begins in Oakland, California, which is where she was born. So she's the child of two immigrants a breast cancer researcher from India was her mother and her father is an economist from Jamaica and they met at civil rights protest in the 60s as a very obviously socially turbulent politically turbulent time. And so she really kind of is a product of the Bay Area at that moment. He grew up for young childhood in Berkeley. Just just north of Auckland and out. There was a little girl and

1 (18m 17s):
California who was part of the second class to integrate her public schools, and she was bust to school every day. And that little girl was me

2 (18m 27s):
after being in California. She spends her high school years in Montreal where her mom had a job. She goes to school at Howard University, which is a historically black institution

1 (18m 36s):
Thurgood Marshall and to Howard and he was one of my inspirations Even as a child, I he's the reason I wanted to become a lawyer and so I always wanted to go to Howard and I went to

2 (18m 46s):
Howard and then she makes her way back to California which is where she goes to law school and then begins her legal career. So she really bounces around although kind of stays away from sort of where we think that those sort of traditional power centers of national politics mean. She's not in New York. For example, she didn't you see a little bit for school, but it's really more of a West Coast story, which is something that we haven't seen a ton of in National politics really since Reagan,

3 (19m 9s):
Oakland. Activism Jamaica India Montreal Howard University law school. Does anything have like an especially strong influence on the person? She becomes

1 (19m 20s):
the singular influence in her life is her mother and

2 (19m 22s):
her parents split when she was a young girl and her mom essentially raised her as a single mom and you just heard her talk about her mother constantly on the campaign Trail in her

1 (19m 32s):
memoirs. My mother was a force of nature all five feet of her if you met her and then you walked away you were have thought she was 7 feet

2 (19m 41s):
tall. Let's take a look at her mother's back story. She came over from India when she was 19 and this is at a time when that was not particularly common. So I think it says a lot about sort of the ambition of her mother. I think it says a lot about the progressive nature of her family back in India that they would send an unmarried daughter to the United States at 19 for schooling. And so all of that stuff you put that in a blender and I think it's almost inevitable that you're going to come out with somebody that's very socially conscious very politically active.

3 (20m 11s):
And so when does she sort of get her start in

2 (20m 13s):
politics? So in 2003 is when she runs to be San Francisco ta and it's actually interesting because she's running against her boss and her boss is this guy named Terence hallinan who was really known as a progressive stalwart in the city and in some ways she's sort of use that against him in her run. You know, she brought up the fact that he had a low conviction rate and that's almost kind of what you would think of as a typical tough on crime approach to running, but she wasn't a hardliner on crime in fact, she Ran against him and one other person all Democrats because we are talking about San Francisco after all but it was unexpected that she won that race mainly because she wasn't

1 (20m 50s):
particularly known 38 year old Kamala Harris came out of nowhere and was swept into office the San Francisco's district attorney. And as she did she made history as the first woman ever to be the city's top prosecutor and she is the first African American in such a job ever the state of California and so was she When she gets into

2 (21m 11s):
office, well, honestly within the very beginning of her coming into office, there's a episode that I actually think sort of defines her as a political figure going forward and this is the death of a San Francisco cop. So he is killed in action and there is a ton of pressure for her to pursue the death penalty against the person who kills the police officer and she doesn't she says right away. We're not going to pursue the death-penalty. She had campaigned on being against the death

1 (21m 39s):
penalty. It is the I believe the majority of people that the most severe crimes be met with the most severe consequences and that life without possibility of parole is a severe

2 (21m 51s):
consequence and she gets a tremendous amount of backlash you had her own Senator Senator Dianne Feinstein speaking at the funeral of this officer and saying that his killer deserve the death penalty. And there's this CEO Standing Ovation. Meanwhile Harris is sitting in the pews of this memorial service. I think feeling very uncomfortable and I think people You'll look back and they give her credit for that because she sort of stood by her Progressive values. But I also think that was kind of a searing moment for her because she got a lot of backlash from law enforcement for that. It took her a very very long time to earn back the trust of law enforcement. I think what it taught her also was like being boldly Progressive and and kind of swiftly.

2 (22m 31s):
So I mean she announced this position before the officer even had his memorial service can come with backlash. And so I think that it may not have necessarily change the way that He viewed policy in terms of her policy preferences, but absolutely change the way that she articulated policy. So she was not a progressive Firebrand in a state that has a lot of progressive

1 (22m 52s):
firebrands in San Francisco. We threaten to parents of truants with prosecution and truancy dropped 32% So we are putting Paris on notice. If you fail to take responsibility for your kids, we are going to make sure that you face the full force and consequences of the Law, I think

2 (23m 11s):
also just inherently being in law enforcement at that time meant that you are participating in a system that now people look at and have a lot of issues with

3 (23m 20s):
and that seems to go for both. Her record is Da and later as Attorney General of California, which is sort of funny to me now considering you know one she's announced as Joe Biden's running mate every one on the right is like she's you

1 (23m 32s):
know, she's the most liberal person in all of Congress. That's what I've heard more liberal than Bernie Sanders believe it or

3 (23m 39s):
not. And then at the same time people Left her like she's a cop. You know, how does that happen? Where does she get that reputation?

2 (23m 45s):
I have to say as a Californian when I was listening to the attacks on the campaign Trail. I kind of had to laugh because it was like like nobody in California. I think would accuse Kamala Harris of being like a socialist radical right? I think that they were able to make those attacks because she's sort of lands on both sides of issues at times. So for example with this death penalty issue, she makes this pretty bold stance as San Francisco district attorney and yet when the state death penalty comes under Court issue comes there's a court case against it as attorney general she defends it and she says that she has to do that because she's the State Attorney General but the question is is like, okay.

2 (24m 28s):
Well, what do you really believe because you seem to have taken a bold stance when you were younger, but now you seem to be defending this the same. I think when it comes to marijuana decriminalization

1 (24m 38s):
And

2 (24m 38s):
or legalization she ran in the primary thing that she was in favor of decriminalizing

1 (24m 43s):
it. Have you ever smoked

2 (24m 45s):
I have. Okay,

1 (24m 47s):
and I inhale I did it I did it but there was

2 (24m 52s):
Clips circulating around of her laughing at the thought of legalizing. Marijuana.

1 (24m 56s):
Yes, California's current top cop Kamala Harris for her position on this controversial issue. Your opponent. Ron Gould has said that he is for the legalization of marijuana recreationally your thoughts on that. That I that he's entitled to his opinion.

2 (25m 14s):
There was certainly some skepticism on the left in the primary of like what is she really believed? What stands to see really come down? But at the same time she had moved enough to the last particularly when she got to Washington that President Trump and Mike Pence and others can say look at her. She's wildly radical. Look at all these things in the

3 (25m 31s):
record. Let's talk about that move. So clearly as attorney general in California. She builds up enough support to clinch a prize senate seat for the state, right?

2 (25m 45s):
I don't want to like overstate the fact that I was struck after watching her in California how much she seemed a little bit less cautious being in DC. I think it was a lot easier as a senator. You're one out of a hundred you're not in also the same sort of legal position that you are as State Attorney General and so she didn't seem to have to Choose her words quite so carefully she could be a little bit more out there, you know think of how she really established for National profile and DC it was in the Senate hearings where she would Grill these Trump Administration

1 (26m 16s):
officials attorney general bar has the president or anyone at the White House ever asked or suggested that you open an investigation of anyone I wouldn't I wouldn't yes or no. Extract could you repeat that question? I will repeat it has the president or anyone at the White House ever asked or suggested that you open an investigation of anyone yes, or no, please sir the president or anybody else. Seems you would remember something like that and be able to tell us

2 (26m 50s):
and yes, it was lawyer Lee but there was it was literally with flair and I think that that was because she didn't have to worry about you know, are your words going to be used against you in a court of law kind of thing. Does she put her name on anything of significance

3 (27m 3s):
or is most of her highlight reel from those hearings?

2 (27m 8s):
She introduces legislation and the legislation she introduces interesting because it kind of gives you a sense of what it means to have a woman in particular woman of color in these positions. Ends, for example the she introduces a bill focusing on maternal mortality among black women the fact that black women died at much higher rates due to pregnancy and childbirth and she wanted to look into the implicit racial bias. That doctors may have when they're treating black women. That's a big deal and that's not necessarily an issue that a white guy would maybe have on his radar. She introduces a bill for more research into the high incidence of fibroids among black women. So I think we get some sense of the sort of 360 degree view that she's taking to policymaking in these bills.

2 (27m 51s):
But again, she's in the minority. So these bills are not passing and so I think we're not necessarily saying that she can claim significant legislation that then was enacted. It's more like she was laid out a roadmap that perhaps can give hints to how she would govern as vice president so mean throughout her career.

3 (28m 7s):
She's had, you know at the same time a reputation for being, you know compared to lie conservative in California and then rather Progressive and liberal in DC. We'll all of that experience server as a comparatively Progressive vice president under a rather moderate president.

2 (28m 24s):
I think her experience particularly in the last couple years in Washington is dealing with the modern Republican party. So she knows what it was like to be in the minority party in the Senate that was being run by Mitch McConnell and I don't want to say that Joe Biden doesn't know what that reality is because Joe Biden, of course had to deal with a very obstinate Senate when he was vice president. President himself to President Obama, but I think Joe Biden also has these kind of Recollections or this faith in a bipartisan governing process when he was in the Senate particularly dating back to the 70s and Harris is just much more of a product of that modern political moment. So I think the two of them working together I think is gonna be really interesting because I think his instinct is going to be I can talk Chuck Grassley to come over to my side I can get Susan Collins to come over to my side and perhaps you can by virtue of these personal relationships, but Harris will be coming at this thinking I've been in the Senate where it has been nothing but sort of trench warfare for a couple of years and perhaps that will inform how she approaches these issues

3 (29m 26s):
and she'll be vice president to a former vice president who knows a thing or two about how a vice president can sometimes be sort of irrelevant. Do you think she'll carve out more of a significant role than you know

2 (29m 39s):
Pence I've had some conversations with people close to her. And I think that we're that they're just starting to sort of sort that out. The one thing that I'm personally going to keep an eye on is how much she tries to stake out a role in foreign policy. The elephant in the room is that she is Vice President. So somebody who 78 years old. It is not entirely clear that he will be running for a second term and I think most people anticipate that she sees the vice presidency as a springboard to ultimately running for president. And if you look at her resume, the one thing that I think is pretty thin right now is having foreign policy experience. And so she can take these four years to build that up get to know world leaders get to know military. There's if she really tries to bulk up that portfolio.

2 (30m 20s):
I think that that is then a blaring signal that she's looking ahead to 2024 or

3 (30m 25s):
2028 and and of course on like, you know, say vice president pens from Indiana or even President Biden from Pennsylvania. She's Kamala Harris from Oakland whose parents came from, you know, Jamaica and India how essential will that be in this effort to maybe bolster her her foreign policy credentials.

2 (30m 44s):
I think that it's essential in the fact that she looks different and comes from a different experience than so many of the people that were representing America in the past. And obviously the clear exception is President Obama and remember how Monumental it was when he visited Kenya and the response that you saw across the world people are paying attention. They do feel an affinity and a sense of kind of Pride and ownership right that the fact that one of their own is now representing America on the world stage and I think that that's particularly resonant. This moment where you know America has been going through a rough time on the international stage over the last couple of years. And so I think I think that having her sort of as as public face could be pretty instrumental in maybe rehabilitating the nation's image abroad or bringing in people who perhaps were very skeptical about America Broad, you know, I don't really want to overstate the fact too much because the truth is it's like what really shapes people's perceptions America brought is what the country does but it's not nothing to have that representation.

2 (31m 54s):
The election of Barack Obama to go back a little bit further to another historical point. I think the country sort of told itself this narrative that it was like we're post-racial now. We did it. We elected a black man as president and then we elected President Trump and I think that we had to all come to grips with the idea that America's perception and handling of race was just a lot hornier than a lot of people knew and I also want to make clear that a lot of people of color were like, yes, we knew this. All along I think that Harris in this rule represents the two steps forward one step back kind of dance that America does on race in that. Yes. She has now reached this threshold. She has crossed that barrier and it is a historic moment, but we should also remember that she did not win the presidential nomination in part because there were a lot of concerns of is America ready for a black woman president.

2 (32m 45s):
There was this electability question and who did Democrats pick they picked a 70 I mean white guy it says a lot that that Harris fell short in that presidential Bid And I think it's a huge historic moment because it shows America's approach to race in its totality both the fact that we can have these barriers being broken and sometimes it is also reflecting the fact that America is perhaps hesitant. In fact to have a woman of color in the commander-in-chief role question is will they be ready to promote her in a couple of years?

3 (33m 22s):
Melanie Mason is a politics reporter at the Los Angeles Times as recline is the editor-at-large at box. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today explained. I imagine we'll have much more to say about this election next week, but hey, we got through this week. And for now that's enough. Did you know that

1 (33m 47s):
simply being online releases carbon the internet like so many parts of modern society runs on electricity.

3 (33m 54s):
And today the electric grid Creed's carbon

1 (33m 56s):
emissions. Google is trying to stop those emissions from your online activity before they start the company aims to run on 24/7 carbon-free energy by 2030 everywhere. They operate by moving beyond carbon-based sources of energy and focusing on solar wind and other Clean Energy Technologies goo Who is working to create a model for how tech companies and industries at large can reduce emissions and make a real impact on climate change learn more about Google's most ambitious decade yet at g dot cold / carbon-free.

2 (34m 32s):
We are all born with a unique genome our own personal blueprint. Unfortunately a mutation in just one gene can lead to a debilitating disease often with limited treatment options enter Novartis a global Healthcare company that's reimagining medicine. Sometimes massive challenges require microscopic Solutions. Novartis is exploring the boundaries of science with cell and Gene.

1 (35m 1s):
Therapies that address disease

2 (35m 3s):
at its source in other words personalized

3 (35m 6s):
medicine. So it's really one of the My Mind One of the

1 (35m 9s):
most promising advances in medicine to me. It's like a new are almost this revolutionary approach

2 (35m 16s):
has the potential to transform life for patients with a variety of diseases some cell and Gene therapies might even be cures medicine is changing to learn more check out Novartis set calm today.