0 (1s):
Y I'm going to Saudi Arabia is the title of president Biden's weekend. Op-ed in the Washington post. It's a little weird.

1 (8s):
You have the president of the world's greatest superpower writing in the Washington post and article in defense of his trip before he even goes, it's kind of like a, why I'm going to sub stack.

0 (21s):
The president writes that he's been tough on the kingdom and on its ruler, Muhammad bin, Salmaan, a dog-eared and unrepentant violator of human rights. But Biden's in a tricky position.

1 (33s):
Obviously oil prices are really high. This isn't contributing to inflation. It's contributing to the bad economy and it might contribute to a real shellacking at the midterm election for Democrats

0 (46s):
Coming up on today, explained the precedent in the kingdom.

OURA (60s):
If listening to this ad for just 30 seconds could improve your immune system, help you burn fat and decrease your risk of heart and brain diseases. Would you still hit that skip button? Yeah, I didn't think so. Getting at least seven hours of sleep a night offers massive health benefits and the aura ring accurately measures your sleep quality and tracks. How many hours of deep sleep or REM sleep you get each night, improve your sleep with the aura ring, the most comfortable water resistant and lightweight health tracker. The beautiful design and timeless colors go with literally any outfit to learn more. Visit aura ring.com that's O U R a ring.com

0 (1m 47s):
It's today explained new will. King president Biden might have scores of geopolitical and diplomatic reasons to visit Saudi Arabia. But there is one big reason that the American public cares deeply about gas prices. Jonathan Geier is a senior foreign policy writer at Vox covering Joe Biden and the world Jonathan what's going on with this trip

1 (2m 14s):
Biden and his administration are just doing everything they can to lower oil prices. The turmoil of Russia's war on Ukraine has obviously contributed to prices. Saudi Arabia is kind of caught between and this geopolitics and surprisingly hasn't really overtly sided with the U S kind of playing both sides. So it's not totally clear what Joe Biden can get out of this visit, but I think everyone watching is going to interpret it as him trying to go there to lower oil prices. The problem is if oil prices don't get that much lower in response to this trip, it's not going to look like a very successful use of presidential power.

0 (2m 54s):
You just lay out what Saudi Arabia can do with regard to oil prices. I mean, the United States, a lot of oil itself, it produces a lot of natural gas. What exactly can Saudi Arabia do for the United States that the us can't do for itself?

1 (3m 8s):
The narrative that the us has become energy independent. It's been a little bit overblown. I mean, prices are still determined by this international market and what MBS and the Saudi government can't do is increase production a couple million barrels a day. It's not a whole lot, but it might be enough with other factors and other efforts to help lower prices a little bit. The bigger issue here though has to do with refineries. There's just not enough oil refineries right now, due to a whole load of reasons.

5 (3m 40s):
Building a refinery is a multi-billion dollar investment. It may take a decade. We haven't had a refinery built in the United States since the 1970s.

1 (3m 49s):
That's why it just seems a little questionable why the president would want to go all in backtracking on some promises on the campaign as president and go meet with MBS hat in hand. As so many people have described it. When the result may not be that fruitful when it comes to oil prices,

0 (4m 8s):
Let's talk about how Joe Biden has talked about Saudi Arabia in the past,

1 (4m 13s):
Looking at what Biden has said as vice president, as presidential candidate, you get the sense, he very conflicted about Saudi Arabia. He's very critical of them called them a prior on the campaign trail.

6 (4m 29s):
And I would make it very clear. We were not going to in fact, sell more weapons to them. We were going to in fact, make them pay the price and make them in fact, the pariah that they are,

1 (4m 40s):
This was largely because Mohammad bin Salman, the crown prince had ordered the assassination of a us resident, Tamala Shoji, the Washington post columnist, really heinous, brutal murder.

7 (4m 54s):
He was strangled. As soon as he entered the building by a team of Saudi assassins who then dismembered his body.

1 (5m 1s):
A lot of people consider MBS. The reason why there's been a prolonged, really devastating war in Yemen, where thousands of civilians have died.

8 (5m 10s):
The fighting around her data supports in the incessant. Saudi led bombardment, eight agencies say has created a perfect storm. One that leaves the parties to the conflict and the international backers with blood on their hands.

1 (5m 24s):
And even as vice-president, he says, you know, the Saudis, weren't always that helpful. They're not helpful in, in dealing with other us interests in the middle east,

6 (5m 32s):
We have not remained silent was Saudi Arabia. And I certainly have it remained silent was Saudi Arabia.

0 (5m 44s):
Jonathan, how unusual though, is it really for a us president to campaign saying one thing and then become president and have to do something completely different?

1 (5m 52s):
Biden is unusual. Cause he came in as the statesmen president. I mean, no one since George HW Bush has had this much experience on the world stage Senate foreign relations committee as vice president, he was kind of Obama's middle east fixer. So this isn't just any old presidential candidate making promises. When Joe Biden says he's going to make Saudi Arabia pariah, you kind of imagine he's going to go for it.

0 (6m 20s):
President Biden keeps insisting, including in a kind of vaguely worded op-ed in the Washington post that this visit is actually about security. So what's in place security wise,

1 (6m 31s):
The Biden administration is trying to put forward a new security architecture, new security deals that put Israel, the United Arab Emirates and other Arab countries together in a fight against Iran. And it looks like the Biden administration's really doubling down on that much to the anger of human rights, activists who are very quick to point out that many of these Arab states are anything but democratic

0 (6m 57s):
As the white house released an itinerary of what the president will be doing. Like, well, he and Mohammad bin Salman be sitting down one-on-one what will this visit look like? Exactly.

1 (7m 7s):
So Biden has had this really kind of confusing policy up until now that he would not meet directly with MBS.

9 (7m 15s):
Mr. President, will you be open to meeting with the crown prince Mohammad bin Solomon, if you do end up going to Saudi Arabia,

6 (7m 22s):
We're getting way ahead of ourselves here.

1 (7m 24s):
The problem with that is he's going to meet with him in this visit and it really looks like a about face and a walk down. Now there have been some incredible scenes reported. The wall street journal showed this scene of Jake Sullivan. Biden's national security advisor meeting with MBS and MBS showed up in gym shorts and was screaming at Jake Sullivan. I mean, I can't emphasize enough that MBS is erratic. He's paranoid, some intelligence experts. I've spoken to compare him to Saddam Hussein. The number two official in Saudi intelligence who, you know, fled the country is now fearing for his life, called him a psychopath.

1 (8m 7s):
In 60 minutes.

10 (8m 8s):
I am here to sound the alarm about a psychopath killer in the middle east with infinite resources who poses a threat to his people, to the Americans and to the planet.

1 (8m 26s):
MBS is a really frightening character. And he's not somebody you want the U S president to be meeting with. But now with this trip, it's all about inevitable.

0 (8m 35s):
I wonder about Mohammad bin Selma and how it plays for him at home. If he makes agreements with Joe Biden on security, on oil, on increasing oil production, does he risk losing anything? Making agreements with the American president who called his country a pariah who has, who has gone after him personally?

1 (8m 56s):
Well, I think it's worth keeping in mind just how popular MBS is in Saudi Arabia, because in parallel to these heinous human rights violation, he's conducted in the world and in his own country, arresting feminist activists, all sorts of members of his Royal court, all sorts of prominent businessmen. MBS has also presided over a great reform culturally of Saudi Arabia, opening it up to concerts and movie theaters and you know, women driving. Now you could say a lot of this is superficial, but for a very young country and Saudi Arabia is a very young country.

1 (9m 35s):
Population-wise, he's very popular. And I think there is a huge respect and affinity for America, not just it's Hollywood pop culture and all that. But look, America had Saudi Arabia is back in the first Gulf war when Saddam Hussein very well could have invaded Saudi Arabia, these relations between Saudi Arabia and the U S they go back to FDR

11 (9m 58s):
In Kargil conversation with Colonel Eddie as interpreter, the Saudi Arabian king and American president discuss mutual problems of trade and relations with Saudi Arabia.

1 (10m 9s):
This is a really long standing partnership, and it's been a cornerstone of us policy. The difference here though is MBS himself. I mean, he is a prior, no Saudi leader has ever been willing to target his own cousins, his own Royal family and send them to jail. The former crown prince, we haven't heard from him since there was a, a cous several years ago in which MBS came to power.

12 (10m 33s):
The media reports suggest at least 20 princes officials and army officers have been arrested in the kingdom's latest purge. They include former crown prince Mohammed bin Nayef.

1 (10m 44s):
I mean, this is really unprecedented stuff. And what's so surprising to me is look the U S we sanctioned Russian oligarchs. We sanctioned all sorts of people that cross us policy, but we have yet to directly sanction MBS, even though we know all this is happening and quite the opposite, you know, president Biden is off to go meet with him. I really feel like the question is what's best for us interests. What's best for human rights. What's best for global security. And it's not clear that doubling down on a relationship with a leader like MBS is, is good for the short, medium, prolonged term goals of this country.

1 (11m 27s):
It may be good for example, for Israel security. And there's a lot of prioritization on the U S side of, of bringing Israel and Saudi Arabia closer. I think countering Iran is a huge priority. And as I said, you know, Russia is now this global boogeyman. China is the cold war of the future, or maybe the present and all of this requires partnerships with, with countries that are somewhat unsavory like Saudi Arabia, but by bringing Biden closer to the percentage of MBS, it's not the about face. That's so bad. It's it's MBS himself. That that really poses a huge, huge threat to global stability.

Land Of The Giants (12m 23s):
I'm Shereen Ghafari. And I'm Alex Heath, we're hosting land of the giants, a podcast about the biggest tech companies of our time. This season Metta formerly known as Facebook. It's a company in a particularly controversial and vulnerable moment. Mark Zuckerberg is placing a multi-billion dollar bet towards an imagined metaverse future. Meanwhile, the rest of us are still grappling with what he's already built This season. We're going to talk to the executive steering Meadows, biggest decisions, and you'll hear from some of Meta's sharpest critics. It's former employees We'll explore wise. Zuckerberg is taking the company in a bold direction and how Facebook's past will inform its future Land of the giants. The Facebook meta disruption from Recode, the verge and the Vox media podcast network. This season is sponsored by Klayvio Subscribe for free wherever you listen and get our first episode on Wednesday, July 13th,

The Vergecast (13m 21s):
I'm David Pierce. And I want to tell you about the Vergecast the flagship podcast of Senti and AI. No, I'm kidding. The Vergecast is a show from the verge where we talk about what's going on in tech, the big stories, the best gadgets, the worst gadgets, and basically all the ways tech might change your life in the future. Neil Patel and Alex Cranz are my co-hosts, but they're apparently too important and too busy to be here, recording this promote with me. Sorry. The editor in Chief, you Got this David On Wednesday is the Vergecast crew dive deep into the stories. The verge covers from what's happening at the latest apple event. I am standing in the spaceship at apple to whether you should be taking phone calls from your earbuds, it really loud coffee shops or your know to why it's so hard for the internet to just tell you what restaurants go to. It is not a straightforward solution. Then on Fridays Nila, Alex and I spent some time hanging out and making sense of all of the biggest tech news of the week. I hope you'll come, listen, and hang out with us again. That's the Vergecast like verge and podcast put together. You get it. The Vergecast see you there

0 (14m 25s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. So earlier I said that most Americans are interested in Saudi Arabia for one reason gas prices, but there is another group of Americans who are fixated on the kingdom. Brett Eagleson is one of them.

17 (14m 40s):
I lost my father and nine 11 when I was 15 years old, he was just a great human being. He was a great leader, had a, had an amazing sense of humor. I don't think I ever met anyone. Didn't like him. And, you know, he died a hero that day.

0 (14m 55s):
He did, he'd gone back upstairs in the south tower to get a box of radios that he thought might help the fire department. He never made it out. When news broke that 15 out of the 19 hijackers on nine 11 were Saudi. It didn't quite register in Brett's teenage mind

17 (15m 13s):
For the initial years after nine 11, you know, it was focused on doing everything that a normal kid should be doing. I was in high school, more concerned about putting one foot in front of the other and studying hard so I can get into a college. And you know, all the things that a teenage boy would be interested in sports, friends, girls, family. So I sorta try to block out as much as I could about nine 11 and just sort of try to keep with the family and keep distracted and just put my head down and finish high school.

0 (15m 46s):
He was trying to finish high school. Other families of nine 11 victims started the process to take legal action against the kingdom of Saudi Arabia in federal court. They alleged those 15 hijackers. Weren't just random Saudi citizens, but that the Saudi government had helped facilitate the attack. Brett grew up

17 (16m 9s):
It wasn't until then that I really started to look back on what did happen that day and what do we know? And what does our government know? I think I always had questions about how 19 individuals with no knowledge of English, no money, no flight experience, how 19 of these people could have banded together and pulled off the most devastating and consequential attack in the U S history. How did that happen without any help from anyone

0 (16m 36s):
You investigations were going on separately? The FBI was conducting a rather secretive investigation into the Saudi government's role and the legal teams representing the nine 11 victims. Families were also investigating. They planned to Sue Saudi Arabia, but because they were civilians, they had to rely on what information was public.

17 (16m 58s):
At the time, there were documents that were publicly available still. I mean, I'll even source right to the nine 11 commission report where they say that they found significant evidence that Saudi Arabia was sponsoring this sort of a radical form of Islam called Wahhabi Islam all over the world. There were a lot of mentions of Saudi Arabia within the nine 11 commission report. So they say all the evidence that they have, they say everything that they find, but they didn't go far enough and say that the institution of Saudi Arabia sponsored nine 11. So the starting point was from the publicly sourced and the publicly available information that was produced through the nine 11 commission report.

0 (17m 40s):
The families reach a conclusion. The Saudi government was definitely involved. They've done their own research. Similarly, the FBI reaches a conclusion. The Saudi government was involved. And at that point, your recourse is to Sue the government of Saudi Arabia. But us law doesn't allow you to Sue the government of Saudi Arabia because of the foreign sovereign immunities act. This is a law that says, basically you can't Sue most countries, except if a country is on the state sponsors of terrorism list and Saudi Arabia is not. So then the only thing you can do, I assume is get that law change.

17 (18m 21s):
We had to pass a law called the justice against sponsors of terrorism act.

18 (18m 28s):
Congress has done something today that they have never done to you before you vetoed a bill that would have allowed nine 11 families to Sue Saudi Arabia, they today overrode your veto that has never happened to you before your reaction.

19 (18m 43s):
Well, I think it was a mistake.

17 (18m 45s):
And what that law did is it created a loophole in the existing law

20 (18m 49s):
Who is saying is that no matter where the, the attack is playing with his plan from overseas or the plan here in the United States, that our lawsuit can be brought,

17 (18m 58s):
It would allow you to bring a lawsuit against the country that is not on the state sponsors of terrorism list, but you have credible evidence that, that foreign sovereign killed or harmed Americans on American soil

0 (19m 17s):
With the law. Now change the family's filed suit in 2017 in federal court, in the Southern district of New York, but Brett and the other nine 11 families knew that they need access to the FBI's investigation to when their loss,

17 (19m 32s):
We had seen redacted versions of FBI reports. We had former FBI agents give us sworn affidavits that we were able to use publicly. We had a whole host of stuff, but we didn't, we didn't at the time, we didn't think we had enough.

0 (19m 47s):
They subpoenaed the U S government for those files and they won, but it took years. And three us presidential administrations.

17 (19m 55s):
We reached out to then candidate Biden during his campaign trail. And we asked if he would help us. And we presented our case to some of his officials, but I hadn't responded with a letter written to the nine 11 family members saying that if he were elected president, he would instruct his attorney general to bring us peace and bring us closure. And to the greatest extent possible declassify once. And for all, all the government's investigative files on nine 11. So he gave us that campaign promise, which we were elated to have. And we all became Biden fans overnight because of that. And we, the families sort of gave him the benefit of the doubt. We wanted to give him some time to get into office.

17 (20m 35s):
You had a whole host of problems going on at that point. It wasn't until about August of that year, that we found out that president Biden was going to be making an appearance at ground zero to honor mark the 20th year anniversary of nine 11. We have this idea

21 (20m 53s):
First responders survivors, and the families of nine 11 victims are telling the president of the United States to stay away from next month, 20 year Memorial events, unless he fulfills a promise

17 (21m 4s):
And we were not going to let another anniversary go by with politicians saying how much nine 11 means to them and how they grieve with us and how they should never forget. And how important this day is knowing that behind closed doors, they're blocking justice to the families. They're not doing what the families want.

21 (21m 22s):
They're demanding that president Biden, declassify evidence that they believe may show a link of the terror attacks and the Saudi Arabian government

17 (21m 32s):
That certainly got the attention of the white house and the attention of the president. And a few days before nine 11, the president issued an executive order saying that he was directing the DOJ and the FBI and the CIA to do a declassification review of all the documents that had been produced by these government agencies and entities. And that the goal was to declassify and give to the nine 11 families and give to the public to the greatest extent possible the most amount of documents that they were able to share with us. We got our first document on September 11th, and it was a document that said, I'll paraphrase it a little bit, but it was an FBI document.

17 (22m 15s):
It's called the 2016 operation Encore review report. It's an analytical level document. And for those that are not in the Intel world, what that kinda means is that it's signed off by multiple layers and multiple levels. So when you have a document that's called a summary document or an update to an investigation, the FBI concludes that as true,

0 (22m 39s):
Brett, you and the other families. What is the status of your lawsuit now? What are you suing for? And when should our listeners expect to see this go to court? How will this work?

17 (22m 52s):
We just concluded discovery. We finished up our expert depositions, our expert reports. We have presented that all to the judge. We suspect that the Saudis are going to try to wiggle their way again, out of the lawsuit, but it would just be incredible after everything that we've produced. And after all the FBI documents that, that we have, it would be incredible if, if a judge were allow them to dismiss their case. So we suspect that in the next couple of months, we'll start having some pretrial motions. And we think that we'll be in court early part of next year.

0 (23m 24s):
What is one concrete thing that you want to come out of this? So that 10 years down the line, you can say, I am satisfied. This is what I wanted. It is enough.

17 (23m 34s):
I want the record to be rewritten. You know, when I think about my daughter, she's two years old and I have a son now that's three months old. When they learn about nine 11 in school, I want the Saudi role to be front and center. And I'll be satisfied when the story or the narrative is changed from the fact that that 19 hijackers with no knowledge of how to fly a plane were directed by Osama bin Laden, from a cave 5,000 miles away. We're able to pull off the most devastating attack in American history. I'll be satisfied when that's rewritten to say that the hijackers, the 19 hijackers had support from a Saudi support network here in the United States, which is what allowed them to be successful.

17 (24m 21s):
President Biden needs to remember his campaign promises made to us. And, and I understand that the president needs to go to Saudi Arabia. I don't think, I don't think we're mad at that point, right? We know that he has to go there. There are a whole host of things he needs to address. The, the, the carpet bombing of Yemen is one of them. The murder of Jamal Khashoggi is another the potential to bring peace between Israel and Iran and Saudi Arabia. These are all huge, huge issues. We have gas at $5 a gallon in some parts of this country, president Biden is the head of state. You know, he, he is supposed to go there. In fact, you know, I encourage him to go there, but at the same time, when you do go there, Mr.

17 (25m 4s):
President, you need the, you need to think about the nine 11 families. And you need to think about the evidence that your own FBI has produced to you per your executive order. That says 21 years ago, there were bad people within that government that led to nine 11

0 (25m 34s):
Today's show was produced by John errands and Victoria Chamberlain. It was edited by Matthew Colette fact, checking on this one was a group effort. Get Wilson soon, Laura, it was engineered by Paul mousey. I'm Noel king it's today explained