4 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from caviar. You might not like caviar, but you certainly like other kinds of food and that is what you can get on the app called caviar. It features great local restaurants in more than 25 major American cities. Let's hope you live in one of those cities and right now you get 20% off your first order on caviar. When you enter the promo code today think of it like today explained download the caviar app use the code today get 20% off food support for the show today comes from the Great American lie directed by Emmy Award winning filmmaker, Jennifer siebel Newsom related to another famous Newsom.

4 (42s):
You might know the Great American lie examines the roots of systemic inequalities through a unique gender lens with Americans facing widening economic inequality and stagnant social Mobility. The film underscores empathy and care as keys to a hopeful path forward for the nation the Great American lie streaming on demand and digitally Friday. October second Just a warning before we start today's episode features coverage of last night's presidential debate will begin in a moment. 20 20 20 20 T know what to say about last night's presidential debate was nothing happening there.

4 (1m 31s):
All right, we're gentlemen it was it was terrible. Mr. President. Can I finish the answer to the question is? No it wasn't what you should I mean it was unpresidential true. Telemann it was like watching a bully steal a kids Beyblades, but but but worse because there's nothing smart about you Joe 47 years because the bully is none of you would have had let me just tell you something president of President of left on the United States knew it. This is a horrible thing for our country. Our is this is it was a travesty this is not going to end.

4 (2m 14s):
Well, it was a travesty of American democracy in a year where we've had plenty. A lot to unpack here. Don't know we got a lot of time. So yeah. Lee's oh you covered the debate for Vox why? So it's a good question. It was ultimately a huge mess. What we saw was Trump steamrolling and speaking over anyone and anything in his path including both Joe Biden as well as moderator Chris Wallace.

4 (3m 2s):
We also got a really concentrated. Look at how little substance Trump is continuing to bring too many different areas of policy. He did not have a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act. He did not take accountability for the hundreds of thousands of deaths that have resulted from coronavirus. It's China's fault that should have never happened and the attacks that he levied against Joe Biden were mostly based on unfounded and unrelated claims. Leading questions about Joe Biden smarts. Did you use the word smart? So you said you went to Delaware state but you forgot the name of your college. You can go to Delaware State you graduated either the lowest or almost the lowest in your class.

4 (3m 47s):
Don't ever use the word smart with me don't ever use that word. Oh, give me a break. I think a lot of people watching last night. Probably pretty quickly started to wonder why these two people were even on a stage debating each other and why any of us would watch does it make Sense to do this with President Trump. This is a question that house Speaker Nancy Pelosi actually raised a couple of weeks ago. I wouldn't legitimize a conversation with him her argument was that Biden shouldn't even debate Trump because it would legitimize the president and it would give him a platform to lie to Bluster and to bully whoever else was there with him.

4 (4m 27s):
He will also be little what the debates are supposed to be about. Out and that's effectively what we saw happen last night and to your point. It really does raise the question of whether this format is a good one for having legitimate conversation about policy about the presidency with somebody like Trump. Maybe they can just give the moderators the ability to like cut off as Mike when its findings turn to speak or the moderators turn to speak. Wow, the commission on presidential debates actually announced today that they're considering. Excellent changes to Future debates because of everything that happened last night.

4 (5m 7s):
They haven't announced. However what exactly those tweaks are going to look like? Okay, hopefully sweeping maybe a mute button can just be the moderator. Did you manage to like pull any substantive details from all the crosstalk and yelling and Trump's bullying there was very little policy talk. We address health care a little bit. And how a Supreme Court case could unravel the Affordable Care Act and there was some talk about climate policy. I want Crystal Clean Water and Air, but again, it was very little and Broad but are you willing tonight to condemn white supremacist and militia groups and to say that they need to stand down and not add to the violence and a number of these cities as we saw in Kenosha and as we've seen in Portland the moment that Stood out most in the debate was when the President Trump refused to outright condemn white supremacist humor very difficult, but I would say almost everything I see is from the left wing.

4 (6m 15s):
He was given an opportunity to do so and not only did he not take it. He went further and said what do you want to call him? Give me a name. Give me by surprise that's going right like medical problems stand back and stand by stand back and say standby to a group called The Proud boys, which is a far-right hate group that's known for inciting violence and his comments were taken by them as they later, you know talked about on social media as effectively an endorsement of what they do. Let's pull one of those UPS is this is one of the reactions minutes after the president started talking about this. Yes, sir. Proud boys standing by I'm so not only did he not reject white supremacist.

4 (6m 57s):
It appeared that he helped kind of fuel that movement even further last night. Let's Plays continue on another moment that really stuck out to me was when the president wouldn't even acknowledge the service and death of Beau Biden and speaking of my son the way you talk about the military the way you talk about them being losers and being and and just being suckers. My son was in Iraq tell guided was in the middle of a pretty emotional statement about his son Beau who has passed away in about his service in the military. He was a patriot and the people left behind there.

4 (7m 38s):
We're heroes really and I resent took it like hell are you talking about my son Beau Biden your tie don't know. I don't know Bo I know huh? Groan travel through didn't acknowledge what Joe Biden was referring to and instead decided to put on a direct attack of Hunter Biden who is also Joe Biden's son. That attack is something he's used a lot in the past. So it in itself. Is unsurprising but the tonality in the context of which he talked about it as Joe Biden is talking about is someone who has passed away was shocking even for Trump. Hmm and Beyond calling President Trump a clown and telling him to shut up which of course got a lot of attention.

4 (8m 21s):
How did Joe Biden fair? I mean, obviously the Trump Administration and the Trump campaign have been trying to paint Joe Biden is unfit to serve as president. How did he e perform in the debate Joe Biden attempted as best as he could to stay above The Fray and make clear statements that he wanted to make about, you know, reopening after the coronavirus about his own clean energy policy and things of that nature some of his strongest moments were actually ones where he was directly addressing the camera. So it looked like he was making eye contact with whoever the viewer was at home. How many of you were in a situation where you lost your Mom and dad you couldn't even speak to them.

4 (9m 3s):
They had a nurse holding a phone up so you can in fact say goodbye little has father when he killed far more people and that was strikingly effective in what he did and what little he was able to do amidst the chaos of the evening. He also refused to answer a couple of questions. Why do you think he took that approach there were areas where he dodged including on a question about the filibuster and packing the court and part of that is because that topic right now is quite contentious even among Democrats and so it's likely he did not want to put a stake in the ground one way or another. Let me move on to questions about the future.

4 (9m 44s):
I suppose the most important question of the night was saved until very late in the night. So maybe some people may have missed it. But Chris Wallace did ask the president again if he would commit to the peaceful transfer of power. Willie urge your supporters to stay calm during this extended period not to engage in any civil unrest and will you pledge tonight that you will not declare victory until the election has been independently certified President Trump. I'm the first my supporters to go into the polls and watch very carefully and the president again seemed to sort of Dodge the question and cast more doubt.

4 (10m 30s):
I am urging my people. I hope it's Is going to be a fair election if it's a fair election what I am a hundred percent on board, but if I see tens of thousands of ballots being manipulated, I can't go along with that. And on 21 September. Come on. Does that mean you're going to be able to take those meet? You have a fraudulent election he again made completely unsubstantiated claims about how mail-in voting adds to voter fraud and that how it can't be trusted as a method of voting which is Take a little concerning because that's going to be one of the predominant ways that people are able to submit their ballots given everything that's happening with coronavirus right now.

4 (11m 11s):
So yes a trump continue to add to concerns that people have had about his willingness to accept the result of the election and passed out on the ways that people are able to participate in it as well. We're going to take a quick break and then we're going to talk about something even worse than last night's debate President Trump's refusal to commit to a peaceful transfer of power if he loses. I'm Sean Rama's from its today explained just - I think this is a fun present act accordingly event or not to give a we have ended this segment. We're going to move on to the second segment.

4 (11m 52s):
It was really a productive Segment 1. Support for the show today comes from Babel or should I say a bolo board today explained or idea? DNA does the Babel? I don't know how I did if it was terrible. Please don't tell me my fragile fragile ego. Anyway Babble can get you speaking truly really greatly speaking a new language in weeks.

4 (12m 32s):
They got 10 to 15 minute lessons that are thoughtfully created by language experts. I'll have you know, And their teaching methods have been scientifically proven to be effective across multiple studies. They even have speech recognition technology that helps improve your pronunciation and accent right now when you purchase a three-month subscription from Babel, they will give you today explained listener three additional months for free with the promo code explain that's three additional months for free to go to battle.com and use the promo code. Explained on your three month subscription be a BB e LD OT c om.

4 (13m 15s):
That's be a BBE l.com promo code explain support for the show today comes from all birds. They do not sell Birds. They sell shoes and between a lingering pandemic, you know political division climate crisis. All this stuff going on shoes can offer one some Joy like a new pair of shoes maybe from from Oh Birds, especially if those shoes happen to be you know, the Holy Grail of of old-school lace-ups, except actually comfortable and made of Premium natural materials. Yes, in case you're wondering I'm talking about the new wool Piper's from all birds, which are there Twist on the classic lace up sneaker.

4 (13m 58s):
They offer the vintage inspired look that that's always cool except instead of the OG design with with like leather uppers and petroleum-based souls. The wool Piper's are made. With certified Merino wool and sugarcane based foam. All birds is committed to things making great looking shoes that feel good and leaving the planet in better shape than they found it. That's why they print the carbon footprint of everything they make right on the product and use sustainable practices, like offsetting their carbon emissions to make the products carbon neutral learn more about their sustainable practices and find your pair of wool Piper's at all birds.com today.

4 (14m 47s):
Ezra Klein President Trump once again refused to commit to the peaceful transfer of power if he loses last night. He once again cast doubt on the results of an election that has already started and we'll take another several weeks at least what happens if he refuses to go. So there are different versions of this. So one version is that Joe Biden wins? Everybody knows Joe Biden. And there's Donald Trump on Twitter being like well, I heard on you know oann that there was this one place where somebody lit a trump belt on fire. So there's a world where Trump is isolated in this and that's a world where what you probably see from him is angry tweets, you know, maybe in the Trump fever swamps.

4 (15m 32s):
There are people making the case of trump one right there. There were Democrats in 2004 making the case that it was diebold machines it stole the election from John Kerry and it just doesn't go anywhere right there. Donald Trump becomes a kind of crank conspiracy player in American politics like forever insisting he won the election. That's like a that's like a best case scenario. I think it's a it's a good case scenario. Here's a real scenario that I think is possible Florida is not expected to have a late-night the way they do male and another things. I think that's true for Ohio to buy then is ahead in the polls in both places. He could just win Florida and Ohio pretty early in the night and we're not dealing with any of this. So I think it is worth saying that If you just read the polls and likely thing he's biting winds by such a margin.

4 (16m 16s):
There's really no question here. The harder question becomes what if there is something that happens in the election some irregularity that creates confusion where Donald Trump is saying he won but it looks like a number of properly cast ballots have been thrown out or conversely Donald Trump lost clearly lost but there's something there's some story there's some something NG that is giving him and and a critical mass of elected Republicans room to claim that he didn't room to claim that this was flawed room to claim this was somehow rigged and it's there in a world where Trump has some institutional backing the things he had very dangerous.

4 (17m 1s):
I can't say this clearly enough What makes Trump dangerous is not Donald Trump it is the enabling force of the rest of the Republican party. If the rest of the Republican Party throughout his presidency had not been willing to enable him. Then his presidency would have either been over long ago or curbed in a very different way. It will really matter what players like Mitch McConnell Kevin McCarthy and Fox News for that matter think and do in those hours. So whether or not they have bought in to whatever Trump You have this is is going to be really really consequential Trump himself. I think is very unlikely to respect anything that is short of a landslide against him.

4 (17m 44s):
But a lot of these other players will and have in other points. And so I think that's going to be really the key variable. Okay. So in a situation where Trump loses but there are irregularities he can point to and and you know cast doubt on and that and that situation where you've got Republicans in the house and the Senate who are somewhat backing him and the argument that the election may have been illegitimate what happens then we do not have a real system for deciding any of this in a legitimate way. It is not that I don't have an answer for that John it is that there is not an answer for that the American system of government one of its truly fatal flaws is that it does not have ways of legitimately resolving.

4 (18m 34s):
Buttes at that level between different branches in different parties. So there are versions of this where it comes down to a particular question. Like should there be a recount in Florida and maybe that is ultimately sent to the Supreme Court and then imagine a world where the deciding vote on that is cast by a me. Koni. Barrett would Democrats find that to be legitimate. I mean it would be it would have been decided but without it in a legitimate decision that the Supreme Court nominee Trump and McConnell just jammed through at the last minute. In violation of McConnell's own principles from a couple years before just handed the election to their benefactor. I don't think Democrats would hold that I think something people do not consider enough when thinking about these scenarios.

4 (19m 17s):
All of the attention right now is on. What if Donald Trump does not think the outcome of the election is legitimate. There's been almost none on what if Democrats don't think it is legitimate and I think sometimes we can in the media sort of bought into the Mythos of America the way that we are we can pretend or act as if any claim of a legitimacy would itself be illegitimate because Trump and making these pre-emptive claims of a legitimacy like that Mala. Balloting is all a fraud that is ridiculous. But you can have election stolen you can have particularly incumbent players leverage their power and leverage their relationships and institutions like the Supreme Court to decide elections in their favor.

4 (20m 3s):
You can argue that happened during Bush V Gore, but I think there's a good case of bush, you know, semi won that election, but in a world where Donald Trump is almost certainly going to lose a popular vote quite dramatically no matter what happens and then you have a contested election where you know, maybe you have something Like two to three percent of mail-in ballots rejected in key states with those projections following disproportionately on Democratic voters and then do Democrats accept that and should they accept that is also a really hard problem and not one with an obvious answer and not one that you can like really even say until you know what the situation is, but we do not have there is not a mechanism that is not party driven. They can decide that there is nobody who is trusted by both sides who can come in and say what is fair or if it was Fair color redo Democrats have committed to the peaceful transfer of power people like Mitch McConnell have stressed how important the peaceful transfer of power is President Trump as we saw last night in the debate has no problem lying why not just lie and say sure.

4 (21m 7s):
Yeah. I'm committed to the peaceful transfer of power. How important is it that he won't even lie and say he believes in this story. read glorified American Institution

2 (21m 21s):
I mean

4 (21m 24s):
look mad for 4 years into this. We elected somebody who fundamentally doesn't believe in the American political experiment and he is never hid that fact. Remember this question got asked in 2016 to are you saying you're not prepared now to point out is that I will tell you at the time I'll keep you in suspense. Well, Chris, let me respond to that because that's horrifying, you know, every time Donald thinks things are not going in his Direction he claims whatever it is is rigged against him now. It didn't end up happening because Hillary Clinton lost and conceited but Donald Trump, I mean what I will say almost in his Hence, is he never hides what he is.

4 (22m 9s):
There's no strategic cynicism here. No disguising like the ball. I talked on the other country last night and my post-debate wrap with Matt Iglesias about this poem Donald Trump used to recite on the campaign Trail called This is a thick and it's a take-off. It's a version of an old Fable people know that I do as the Scorpion and the Frog but you know, they take a snake the snake ask you to take it across the river. Ever take me you know tender woman Take Me In For Heaven's Sake take me in Ho tender woman side the viciousness and then it bites you and now I'm going to die.

4 (22m 53s):
Oh, shut up. Silly woman said the reptile with a grin you knew damn. Well, I was a snake before you took me in and Trump would tell that story to talk about immigrants. But it is always in my view been the most profound commentary on Trump himself. He's never hidden who he is. He's never hidden what he is. He doesn't disguise himself behind a lot of glittering rhetoric. You don't have to look hard to see what he's really doing. It's all out there. He lets me know but I think the thing that people are worried about right now is that the peaceful part of that equation Sean?

4 (23m 35s):
I don't have a way to make people not worried. I'm not here to make you feel better. Yeah, you shouldn't feel good.

2 (23m 43s):
hmm

4 (23m 47s):
I guess the question I have is. Should people be focused on making sure as much as a citizen can that you know, he or she is voting that that vote is counted that other people are being helped to vote or should Americans be, you know, buying boards and Hammers and nails and weapons for what could be some sort of constitutional crisis that has, you know, people out in the streets ready to commit violence. Because I think I think a lot of people have that question right now.

4 (24m 27s):
I would just say that. The peaceful transfer of power is not simply something that is guaranteed. It is something that has to be continually guaranteed. And so it is important that people do not think their responsibility to our democracy ends with voting and it's worth knowing that we've had many moments in America where we either did lose control like the Civil War or we almost lost control like the election of 1800 and in these cases it is taken either the brave intercession of a set of political.

4 (25m 11s):
Like for instance Republicans going to Richard Nixon and saying you have to resign or we will remove you. Or it is taken the American people much more broadly in a mass way rising up. Like I am not here to tell you. This is just going to happen on autopilot. It may not. I'm not saying like get ready. I'm definitely not saying board up your windows. Don't hide. Most people want America to keep going most people want Donald Trump to not be president, but I don't love sitting in contemplating these scenarios because they're terrible scenarios.

4 (25m 52s):
They are scenarios with no good outcome. Only bad ones and worse ones My Hope and that's why I think you see people like Joe Biden just up there saying like vote like the thing to do right now is vote like my hope is that there's such a decisive judgment on Election Day frankly. I think people can pretty easily figure out which candidate I would prefer to win this election, but if Trump wins, I hope it is clear. I really do. Like the outcomes I want here are either Joe Biden wins and it is obvious or Trump wins and it is obvious. Here comes I fear here or murkiness.

4 (26m 41s):
Thank you Ezra. I imagine we'll be in touch. Ezra. Klein is the host of another box podcast. It's called the Ezra Klein show. You can find much more coverage of last night's shitshow from Ezra and Lee and many more of our colleagues over at vox.com and with all the disinformation about voting floating around. Who could blame you if you were confused about your deadlines your options any of it head over to vox.com / vote to clear up any confusion ahead of this election.

4 (27m 24s):
Again, it's vox.com / vote. Let's please continue on consumers for safe. CPD wants to know what's in your CBD in a recent report to Congress the FDA found that a sampling of CBD products. They tested were mislabeled some of them contains more than 120 percent of the CBD amount listed and nearly 20 products contained th see the ingredient that can cause psychoactive effects as well consumers for safe.

4 (28m 12s):
CBD is calling on the FDA to regulate the CBD. I'll get to protect consumers from potential harms posed by untested products though. The FDA has issued warnings. This is not deterred some vendors for making sweeping Health claims about their products ability to treat a wide range of serious medical conditions. Remember just because CBD products are on grocery store shelves does not mean they're risk-free be smart and stay healthy learn more about consumers for safe CBD at for safe CBD Org, that's the number for sa Fe CBD dot o-- r-- g-- Google's free tools are designed to help support millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working with Google tools.

4 (28m 60s):
Small businesses are staying connected to their customers by updating their business hours switching to curbside pickup activating online booking and more and if you want to support them, there are ways to help whether you're searching for restaurants salons bookstore. Oars Jim's boutiques or any other business near you show your support by ordering takeout writing a review buying a gift card or making a donation all With a Little Help from Google.