0 (1s):
Attention Telecom powder users. If you are a loved one, use TA powder products like Johnson's Baby powder or shower to shower powder and were diagnosed with ovarian cancer, you may be entitled to substantial financial compensation

2 (17s):
For years. Lawsuits against Johnson and Johnson have piled up for years. The company has denied its baby powder caused cancer, and eventually it found a way to shunt off its legal liability. Just this week, a panel of judges in affiliate appeals court pressed j and j over the way it went, about that facing tens of thousands of lawsuits, the company spun off a new unit and siloed the suits into it. That unit then immediately filed for bankruptcy Coming up on today explained what this might mean for people seeking justice.

3 (49s):
I hope no woman has to go through this. It really changes your life and your family and it should not happen to anybody.

Samsung (59s):
Support for today's show comes from Samsung. If you are not quiet quitting, but instead looking to supercharge your productivity. Here's the thing to know. Samsung's new Galaxy Z fold four offers a world of possibilities with an expansive foldable screen. It's more than just a phone. Z fold four is a full on multitasking powerhouse that lets you do more than ever right from the palm of your hand, the large, and I'm told immersive screen folds out so you can watch your favorite content while using your phone to take notes or to take a selfie, all of it hands free. You may visit samsung.com to learn more about the Galaxy Z fold four.

4 (1m 40s):
The case of a missing. Indigenous Alaska women sparks new questions about other missing and murdered indigenous women. But when the cops stop looking, a team of local journalists step in to bring the truth to light. That's where ABC's thrilling new drama Alaska Daily begins. And where it's headed will have you on the edge of your seat stirring two time Oscar winner, Hillary Swank, Grace Dove and scandals. Jeff Perry Alaska Daily premieres Thursday, October 6th on ABC and Stream. Next day on Hulu.

2 (2m 22s):
It's today explained AB Nowell. King Tiffany's shoe is a reporter for the New York Times and she has been covering the Johnson and Johnson's baby powder lawsuits. Tiffany, how did baby powder become so ubiquitous? How was it marketed?

4 (2m 35s):
So it's a powder that was often used to alleviate diaper rash around infants diaper area. That's mostly how it was marketed by Johnson Johnson as pure and gentle enough for babies bottoms product that mothers can trust,

5 (2m 48s):
I put it on her. After a bath, I put Johnsons all over her fragile handle with Johnson.

4 (2m 56s):
But over time, Johnson Johnson realized that it could also market to mothers. So it started to sell the product to women who themselves use these products to reduce feminine odors on their gender roles.

5 (3m 9s):
As long as I can remember, Johnson's baby powder's been making me feel soft, fresh, and loved.

4 (3m 15s):
It was also broadly popular with adults who applied it to other parts of their bodies to soothe rashes or ease chafing caused by friction on the skin. The

2 (3m 23s):
Substance that is at the center of these lawsuits is something called what's ta and what's the problem with it?

4 (3m 30s):
TA is as we usually come into contact with it, a powder, but it's derived from TA that is mined from geological deposits, usually deep in the earth. It is known as the softest mineral that is known to man. It's

6 (3m 46s):
The softest there is. Don't you like how it makes my skin feel so smooth and soft?

2 (3m 51s):
How did we come to understand TA and cancer have a relationship?

4 (3m 56s):
So researchers started raising concerns decades ago, some of them in the 1950s. Consumer advocates grew increasingly alarmed in the 1970s because there were studies that started to suggest that there might be a link between TA and the carcinogen asbestos.

2 (4m 12s):
So

4 (4m 12s):
There are a few theories of how TA might lead to cancer. One, and this is getting traction with plaintiff's lawyers and recent years is that TA can be contaminated with asbestos, which is a known carcinogen that is associated with mesothelioma, a cancer of the lining of the internal organs. So calc mines are often located near asbestos deposits, and as a result, the geologists that we've talked to have said that raw TA can be intermingled with asbestos. Cosmetic grade TA is refined usually to remove impurities, but the government doesn't enforce whether or not that happens. The other theory is that when a woman applies TA powder to her genital area, small particles can migrate up the vaginal canal and travel to the epithelial ovarian tissue or the fallopian tubes, and the thought is that this could cause irritation that sets off chronic inflammation and that eventually contributes to cancer.

4 (5m 7s):
Back in 2018, my colleague Ronnie Ravine, and I reported that Johnson and Johnson had known for decades that asbestos was a potential concern while they were trying to discredit researchers who said as much. At the same time, Lisa Gearon at Reuters found that the company didn't tell the FDA that at least three tests by three different labs in the 1970s had found asbestos in its talk. In one case that the levels were rather high.

2 (5m 36s):
Is there any replacement for ta?

4 (5m 39s):
Indeed there is. After consumer advocates began saying that, how can trained traces of asbestos, Johnson and Johnson developed a corn starch version in 1980 and began selling it.

7 (5m 51s):
No baby powder absorbs better than Johnson's baby pure corn star powder.

2 (5m 57s):
Okay, so 1980, they begin selling it. Why are we talking about this in 2022? What happened?

4 (6m 3s):
It's more what didn't happen. Johnson and Johnson has always been adamant that its baby powder is asbestos free and that there really is no reason why it should have to take the TA baby powder off the market. Johnson Johnson is a company that's built on trust and for it to remove TOC from the shelves would suggest to many people that it was somehow at fault that it was somehow admitting that there was something wrong with its product. All

2 (6m 33s):
Right, so let me ask you about how marketing changes over time. Cancer is something that scares people. People tend not to buy products that might give them cancer unless they are addicted to them like cigarettes. So I imagine Johnson and Johnson has to start marketing its baby powder to people who are not aware of of the complaints about cancer. How did Johnson and Johnson change who they marketed to over time?

4 (6m 56s):
So Johnson and Johnson has been accused of targeting its marketing to black women for decades, really using free samples at beauty salons, radio campaigns, other efforts In 1992, there's an internal memo that notes the quote, High usage of baby powder among black women, and the quote, opportunities to grow the franchise among the demographic, despite the fact that that same internal memo also notes the negative publicity from the health community on ta.

8 (7m 24s):
Well, big news from renowned civil rights attorney Ben Crump, he has filed a lawsuit on behalf of a group of black women against Johnson and Johnson. I don't know, a black woman alive bagging a day that didn't use Johnson and Johnson TA powder. If you took a bath, you was gonna put some T powder on your body at some point. Even kids when we were kids as well.

2 (7m 44s):
That's

4 (7m 44s):
Right. Last year in July, the National Council of Negro Women filed a lawsuit against Johnson Johnson saying that the company had marketed its TA baby powder to black people through promotions at concerts, churches and barbershops. They

9 (7m 58s):
Double their efforts in marketing to black women, and that is where is so sinister about

4 (8m 8s):
The company had considered signing Patty LaBelle or Aretha Franklin as a spokeswoman despite the evidence that its products might contribute to cancer 50

9 (8m 15s):
Years of misinformation. That's what we're fighting.

2 (8m 21s):
This is infuriating. Where are the regulators?

4 (8m 24s):
That is an excellent question. There are asbestos regulations at the federal, state and local levels of government, but TA is not regulated by any government agency. The cosmetics industry handles monitoring of its own use of ta and by many accounts it doesn't do a particularly rigorous job of it. Traces of asbestos have been found in TA makeup products that are marketed to kids and teens.

10 (8m 47s):
The FDA is now warning parents to throw out three products from Claire's after new tests found they contained asbestos

4 (8m 54s):
As well as in some toys and crayons containing the powder. Playschool

11 (8m 58s):
Crayons tested positive for asbestos.

2 (9m 2s):
Tell me what we know about how many people claim they've gotten sick from using baby powder. And I imagine many of them are women, if not most of them, and how many lawsuits have been filed?

4 (9m 14s):
So at this point we have more than 40,000 lawsuits. Many of them are from women with ovarian cancer or mesothelioma. There's some men as well, and they've accused Johnson and Johnson of selling TOC baby powder while being aware of its links to health risks such as possible asbestos contamination. Ronnie and I spoke to many, many victims there. There's one example that stands out for me in particular. Pat Schmitz was a former school teacher who said she trusted baby powder because Johnson and Johnson told her it was safe and, and this is a common refrain from plaintiffs that they trusted the company and then Pat was diagnosed with mesothelioma.

4 (9m 58s):
This is a cancer that's usually found among construction crews, shipyard workers, and coal miners.

12 (10m 4s):
I used body powder after every bath hour, baby powder or the body powder served the purpose of not chasing. How did you apply? Sometimes I applied it to my hand and would apply it to my body

4 (10m 21s):
And she was angry. She was so angry that she decided to sue despite knowing that she didn't have much time left. She used to be healthy and robust, but when I met her, she was frail and withered. A judge ordered the company to pay her 4.8 million in that same year she died and she was 61. There's another woman named Dan Berg who says that she turned down a 1.3 million settlement offer from Johnson and Johnson because she wanted to force the company to put warning labels on baby powder or stop selling it entirely. She used TOC baby powder for 40 years and she developed ovarian cancer in 2006.

13 (10m 59s):
I am 100% certain that it caused my cancer

4 (11m 2s):
And what she told me was heartbreaking. You know, she said she endured brutal chemotherapy for six months. She said she sustained permanent hearing loss, nerve damage, anemia and depression. And the last time I talked to her, she was in remission. Thankfully,

2 (11m 21s):
Shirley Johnson and Johnson is no longer selling TA based baby powder. They've, they've got like a new product on the market that they can point to.

4 (11m 30s):
This has been a long road It, it hasn't happened as quickly as one might think in 2019 retailers like Walmart and CVS and Rite Aid poll Johnson Johnson's talk baby powder because the FDA had found asbestos in a container of the product. This was a part of a 33,000 bottle batch that Johnson Johnson voluntarily recalled after the FDA made its discovery. In 2020. Johnson Johnson said that it would discontinue sales of TOC baby powder, but only in the US and Canada. It said it would keep selling it elsewhere.

14 (12m 3s):
In a statement, the company blaming declining sales fueled by misinformation around the safety of the product and a constant barrage of litigation advertising.

4 (12m 12s):
In April of this year, Johnson and Johnson's shareholders voted against a proposal that would have stopped the sales of TOC baby powder in global markets like Asia and South America. Then there was a campaign with nearly 200 organizations. It was led by the black women for wellness to pressure j and j to strip the TOC based products from shelves worldwide. And finally, in August, the company said it would stop selling the product globally. In 2023,

15 (12m 39s):
The company maintains TOC based powder is safe, but says it's making a switch to corn star based powder next year to meet customer needs and evolving global trends.

1 (12m 51s):
There

2 (12m 51s):
Is nothing that forces the hand of a company like having to pay out money to people who claim their product has is injured them. How much has Johnson and Johnson had to pay out in all these lawsuits?

4 (13m 3s):
So the verdicts have been varied. In 2018, there was a jury in Missouri that order Johnson and Johnson to pay nearly 4.7 billion to 22 women in their families. And those people had claimed that asbestos in the TA had caused them to develop ovarian cancer. But it should be said that Johnson and Johnson has been cleared in several cases and it's successfully appealed others. But the cases have still been very damaging financially and reputationally. In Johnson and Johnson's financial reports, it says that it faced 1.6 billion in TOC related litigation expenses last year. And this was after setting aside 3.9 billion for legal bills the year before

2 (13m 51s):
Coming up. As the lawsuits mounted Johnson and Johnson made a seemingly dubious but still legal move to get itself off the hook.

16 (14m 6s):
I'm Hai Modi and I produced today, explained this June. In the wake of a school shooting in Uvalde, Texas, we examine the debate around whether or not you should show images of mass shooting victims in the news. We spoke with a journalist who faced that question years ago. After Columbine, he published photos of a victim following his journalistic instincts. So like him, we followed ours with a looming deadline. We found that victim's mom and she told us why she thinks publishing photos of dead children is a mistake. That sort of journalism is possible in part because of support from engaged listeners like you. This month V is aiming to add 5,000 contributors to the community and you can help us reach that goal.

16 (14m 52s):
Visit vox.com/give thanks.

2 (15m 2s):
Hey, have you all listened to Love It or Leave It? Love It or Leave It is a podcast that's hosted by former Obama speech writer John Lovett of Crooked Media. Every week John is joined by comedians, journalists, activists, elected officials, and many more types of people to break down the latest news with humor analysis and some light optimism. Apparently there's games, there are rants, there are performances, and I'm told there's even more. You can check out new episodes of Love It or Leave It every Saturday morning, wherever you get your podcast.

17 (15m 38s):
It's a feeling you never up grown Johnson's family. There is a family. You never up

18 (15m 47s):
Pra Johnson's baby pattern from Johnson and Johnson. It's a feeling you never outgrow. Never big grown, never grown, never

2 (15m 54s):
Big. It's today. Explain. Jamie Smith is the US pharmaceutical correspondent for the Financial Times, and he's been writing about how Johnson and Johnson is trying to get out of paying these big legal fees using the Texas two step.

19 (16m 9s):
So the Texas two step is really the catchy name that lawyers in the media have come up with to describe what's a very complex and controversial bankruptcy maneuver. This is really at the center of J and J's response to the multi-billion dollar baby tell problem that it faces. What can I tell you about the Texas two step? I mean, it's a scheme that gets its name from the use of a A statute which was passed in Texas back in 1989. You know, it was originally intended to make the process of spinning off companies more efficient and it was part of a push by local business leaders and lawyers at the time in Texas to make it a much more business friendly jurisdiction.

19 (16m 55s):
But it certainly is controversial or has become controversial even down in Texas as the name suggests. There's really two parts to this scheme. The first is a corporate reorganization, which enables a company to split itself into two separate entities. Now, in J J's case, it created a new subsidiary called LTL Management, and it stuffed it with all the potential legal liabilities related to the almost 40,000 personal injury claims that have been filed against it by plaintiffs ltl. Then when it was created through this process, it immediately filed for bankruptcy protection in North Carolina.

20 (17m 39s):
Listen, I got the answer. You declare bankruptcy, all your problems go

19 (17m 43s):
Away. A move that automatically halted all the personal injury cases that it faced and it prevents claimants from moving ahead towards jury trials. It's

21 (17m 54s):
A fresh start. It's clean slate

19 (17m 56s):
Like

22 (17m 56s):
The Witness Protection Program.

19 (17m 58s):
Not at all. So that's the one part of this process. And the other part is that there's also the valuable parts of Johnson Johnson that which has all its drug pharmaceutical business, its medical device business, and its consumer business. And these were all placed into a separate entity outside of the bankruptcy process. So essentially Johnson and Johnson was reborn without the threat of the TA litigation hanging over the good parts of its operations.

23 (18m 30s):
I declare bankruptcy

2 (18m 36s):
And Johnson and Johnson and the good parts of its operations without the threat of the lawsuits. Is that a profitable company? Is that a rich company?

19 (18m 44s):
Oh, Johnson and Johnson is a hugely profitable and rich company. So Johnson and Johnson has a market capitalization of about 440 billion. So it's one of the USS biggest listed companies, one of the biggest healthcare products companies in the world. And that goes to the heart of the arguments that the plaintiffs have been making in all the appeals we've had against this is that Johnson Johnson shouldn't be allowed as such a big, powerful, profitable company to use the bankruptcy system to handle these personal injury claims.

2 (19m 24s):
Is the Texas two step considered a shady move among business journalists and business professionals, or is this something that companies do all the time when they don't wanna face the music?

19 (19m 36s):
Well, the Texas two step is a complex and certainly very controversial move. I don't think we can call it a shady move yet, certainly not until the legal processes are over dealing with this. The Texas two step has already gone through one court case in the bankruptcy court of New Jersey and that court find that it was a perfectly legitimate move for Johnson Johnson to use the bankruptcy process in this way to handle its personal injury claims. However, we have an appeal against that by the tell claimants and we'll get a decision on that and that'll certainly get to the heart of whether it is a legitimate process to use.

19 (20m 24s):
During my reporting on the Texas two-step, I went down to Texas and track down a lawmaker who introduced the divisional merger scheme into the state legislature back in 1989, and he said he was appalled at J and J's use of the scheme to try and manage its exposure to these tell claims. So that was Steven Wallens, former Texan lawmaker, and he told me that j and j had dubiously interpreted and misused the divisional merger law to avoid liabilities and they would never have proposed this divisional merger law in the first place if they would known that it would've been used in such a way.

2 (21m 8s):
What are some other companies that have used the Texas two step to avoid litigation? Any household names?

19 (21m 14s):
Yeah. Well, there are three other Texas two step cases. Koch Industries, Georgia Pacific first deployed this scheme back in 20 20 17, trained technologies and a US unit of the France based company, Saint Coban followed suit. All these cases are actually linked to as bestos related lawsuits, and none of them have yet been finalized or settlement successfully paid out to claimants. So it's a scheme that it's just got four sort of examples of it taking place at the minute, but most experts believe that if j and j are successful in their efforts to use it, that it could actually draw in many other companies to go ahead and use it.

2 (22m 4s):
And I wonder, are these companies just individually deciding to do this or is there a connection among and between them?

19 (22m 13s):
The Texas two-step has really been driven by a bunch of smart lawyers at the law firm Jones Day. It's one of the biggest law firms in the country. It turned over just over 2.2 billion in revenues in 2020. And each of its equity partners took home on average about 1.3 million that year. So its lawyers really devised and marketed this complex scheme, and one of them, Greg Gordon, who's a Jones Day partner at the firm's Texas office, described this year in a public forum, the Texas two step, as I quote, the greatest innovation in the history of bankruptcy.

19 (22m 53s):
And it's not surprising that Jones Day believe that because you know, they've been reaping millions of dollars in bankruptcy fees through this. You

2 (23m 2s):
Said that earlier this year, a federal judge in New Jersey essentially said Johnson and Johnson can do this. What was the judge's justification?

19 (23m 11s):
That's right. Judge Michael Kaplan of the New Jersey bankruptcy court argued that the bankruptcy courts were the best venue to handle these masks toward claims because they could provide an expeditious, fair and less costly method of settling the claims. So he argued j j did not file in bad faith, but rather for the legitimate purpose of settling these types of mass litigation.

2 (23m 36s):
And how did the lawyers for the victims or the alleged victims and their advocates respond to this? I imagine they were disappointed.

19 (23m 45s):
Yes, the victims were very disappointed and the advocates were very angry. So actually what we're seeing is they have already filed an appeal against Judge Kaplan's ruling, and they are challenging this at the Federal Appeals Court. If this case is drawn out, then I think companies will really think twice about going down the bankruptcy route. But if j and j and LTL are able to win this case, I think it really will set a precedent for the future.

2 (24m 21s):
Let me ask you lastly, Jamie Johnson and Johnson does have a reputation. For a long time it was a reputation for trustworthiness and surely it wants to protect its reputation. Does something like the Texas two step with all of the dubiousness therein hurt its reputation or has it already been damaged enough by the lawsuits, the thousands of lawsuits against it?

19 (24m 47s):
J and j talks a lot about its credo, you know, a set of values that it conducts its business by and which actually stipulates that its first responsibility is towards its customers. And I think inevitably by resorting to a complex, controversial legal scheme to handle these types of sensitive claims over the baby talk, well that means it is enduring some reputational damage. Whether this is any worse than having thousands of cases coming to court, decided by a jury with huge awards gathering media attention is really anyone's guess. I think the big danger for j and j is that if it loses its appeal or the appeal against this Texas two step case, it may have to go back into the mass towards system and face these jury trials anyway after already enduring the reputational damage from going down the route of the Texas two steps.

19 (25m 46s):
So I think the company will certainly be suffering some sort of reputational hit through this.

2 (25m 57s):
Today's show was produced by AV Shy Artsy. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Paul Robert Mosey. Matthew Colette edited the show. I'm Noel King, it's today explained.