1 (1s):
Support for this episode of today explain comes from chirico. You may remember them as the people who send projects to kids of all ages to help spark creativity tinkering and and learning about Science and Technology and Engineering and art and math. You can try them up for free right now at kiwi co.com explained. Alex Ward National Security Vox what happened to John Bolton National Security White House. He's

3 (39s):
gone just like that. Adios

1 (41s):
Bolton. But this time the controversy immediately landed on Fox News were Bolton was like live texting over it was at Fox and Friends. I'm not sure what the other shows are.

3 (51s):
It was the Brian Kilmeade

1 (52s):
Jumbo's just texted me. Oh just how he's watching. Can you read it? Yeah. He said, let's be clear I resigned and I said, do you mind if I say that while you were talking and he wrote? Yes, so John Bolton is just told me texted me to said I resigned

3 (1m 7s):
you basically have Trump saying like I asked for Bolton resignation last night the President also tweeting

1 (1m 12s):
quote. I disagreed strongly with many of his suggestions as did others in the

3 (1m 17s):
administration have Bolton saying Ambassador Bolton tweeted this just moments ago. I offered to resign last night and President Trump said, let's talk about it tomorrow. So there's a controversy the end result is the same John Bolton the Third. Carrie advisor for Donald Trump is no longer the third National Security advisor for Donald

1 (1m 35s):
Trump. Do we have any idea why President Trump and his National Security advisor have now parted

3 (1m 40s):
ways these two guys don't really agree on anything. Mmm. Trump is not a dove in any way, but the one thing he does not want to do and he seems completely allergic to is being a president who starts a new war whether it be with a Ron but Syria within Israel ever maybe he will threaten it, right? We've heard him say it constantly, but he always just seems when the moment comes to push back from that John Bolton hasn't found a conflict doesn't want to be just want to start a war and like he's written openly even before he joined Administration about bombing North Korea Iran. And so while they both I would say have hawkish Tendencies, they both like speaking tough and and using American power abroad.

3 (2m 24s):
They seem to have a pretty big separation when it comes to go to

1 (2m 28s):
war or not. He has strong views and things but that's I actually temper John which is pretty amazing, isn't it? Okay, so that's been their relationship since the jump but this is coming what just a few days after this totally bungled Camp David Summit where President Trump was supposed to host the leaders of Afghanistan and the Taliban. Does that have something to do with this

3 (2m 52s):
too? It definitely could Bolton have been sidelined from major meetings leading up to that plan Summit that never really materialized because he didn't want to do it because Bolton doesn't make a deal with the Taliban. In fact, one of the secrets we kind of heard over time was that it was a purposeful decision to keep bolting out of that process basically, so it wouldn't leak like you could imagine Bolton is a DC Insider through and through he knows how to play this game. And so there was a concern that if this had leaked to Bolton that there was going to be a Taliban Afghan u.s. Meeting at Camp David that that definitely would have leaked to the press and that may have scuttled it. So the fact that it Didn't write we kind of heard about it through Trump's tweet.

3 (3m 34s):
It showed that the National Security advisor the president's main Aid when it comes to dealing with National Security and foreign policy Affairs was left out of a massive National Security and foreign policy

1 (3m 43s):
issue. If this is a bad match from day one, why did these two people elect to work with each

3 (3m 50s):
other? I think from Trump's end it was that John Bolton is respected GOP National Security figure out he's been around forever. He's basically served in every Republican Administration going back to Reagan if I recall and on top of that he spoke tough on Fox News and Trump like that about him. The Obama

1 (4m 8s):
era for American foreign policy is clearly over. I thought this strike ordered by the president was very measured very

3 (4m 17s):
precisely why he would defend some of Trumps policies on his more. Hawkish Tendencies. And so you had someone who at least on the hawkish end matched with Trump - that war part. Yeah on Bolton's end that job was by far the highest he would ever get to government. I mean for those that don't know the National Security advisor position is an insanely important and Powerful position. I mean, it is equivalent in a sense to Secretary of State and Secretary of Defense not necessarily saying that they are equivalent right National Security advisors not Senate confirmed, but the point is that like this is the person who runs the day. Day foreign policy for the president main advisor in the presidency or everyday coordinates national security policy across the sprawling government and I think he knew that he and Trump matched temperamentally.

3 (5m 4s):
I think they did not match in terms of going the full extent on some issues. So despite being at

1 (5m 10s):
loggerheads with the president the entire time was he able to get anything done.

3 (5m 15s):
Oh, yeah, I mean despite, you know having trouble pushing on some of the big ticket items that he wanted to work on. He definitely did a lot of things kind of outside of Trumps view that, you know, let him to live his best life like what three things come to mind, especially the first is he even before joining the Trump Administration was strongly against Arms Control meaning like, you know deals to reduce the number of nuclear weapons and missiles and stuff like the INF with Russia like the IMF with Russia that's gone. It looks like new start another important us Russia deal, maybe out the window and I reported at the time when Bolton went over to Moscow to negotiate with Putin. Others that like he was carrying a hey can we work out a deal message but that internally and tunneling AIDS like he just did not at all want to do that.

3 (6m 1s):
He wanted those deals done Argan rather and now they're gone what else to is. He like totally dismantled any adherence the u.s. Really had to international law and the UN like the Human Rights Council and you know is a important body for many reasons that many that I should say people find controversial but like the u.s. Stopped adhering to that you and defunding the international criminal court wanted to look into the conduct of US troops in Afghanistan Bolton basically bullied them to not doing so and even like revoked the Visas of one of their counselors

1 (6m 32s):
and the third thing

3 (6m 34s):
he's not the only one responsible for this but he was a major driving force in the American pressure campaign against Latin America specifically Cuba Nicaragua, and of course, Venezuela Bolton kind of used these issues to say like it is America's job to push back against audit Alex socialist regimes are communist regimes and he even said like the Monroe Doctrine is back like with the Trump Administration. So the us would have complete control in a sense or complete power over the Western Hemisphere. And in fact, there's some reporting out there that like Bolton and others sold in the case of Venezuela, the the maduro's ouster like it would be so much easier. And since it's taken so long Trump is completely lost interest but Bolton didn't and so despite the fact that he may not have completed all the things you would have liked to have done you didn't convince them to do all the things he would have wanted him to do in the end Bolton cut accomplished a lot in his short time

1 (7m 29s):
there. This isn't the first time he's been asked to leave an Administration right was in his exit from the George W Bush Administration sort of similar.

3 (7m 37s):
I wasn't by tweet Bolton has rubbed people the wrong way in the past. He was the UN Ambassador for George w-- Bush he left in part because you know, he didn't really like the UN he went there basically to trash the When he'd once famously said like you could Lop off a lot of the top rows of the UN and it would still be fine. And so we're Bolton has gone bolted has just been himself and he's never really molded himself into an Administration. He's been an ideologue forever. He's had a lot of opinions about arms control or on Latin America communism socialism, like he's just been constantly sort of single-minded about many of these things and he's just pursued those objectives wherever he was in this case with Donald Trump.

3 (8m 21s):
He had a president who had strong views on foreign policy but didn't really deal with the day-to-day issues. Didn't really follow through wasn't is not a task manager is not a you know thorough person and so Bolton had a lot of room to pursue a lot of his objectives. Is this sort of the end of

1 (8m 37s):
his political career. Does he have to just go back to being a Fox News talking head now?

3 (8m 42s):
That's the belief is that this is it for John Bolton and part of the reason again why he took the job job is because that's the highest hill ever. The chance that he'll ever be Senate confirmed seems impossible because Democrats hate them and a lot of Republicans hate him too. But we have not heard the last of John Bolton. This guy's going to be commenting constantly. He'll be writing op-eds. I'll be on TV unlike Mattis who's you know wants to stay quiet Bolton. I'm very sure is going to be extremely loud and I think maybe the first real insight we may get to how Trump is as president

1 (9m 13s):
may come from John Bolton. John Bolton was President Trump's third National Security advisor is the revolving door starting to hurt our national security. That's in a minute. Okay, so I mentioned this a couple weeks ago, but now it's September so it feels much more real Halloween is coming.

1 (9m 57s):
It's just a month in some way. I was talking to my neighbor this weekend. He's already got Halloween costume ideas for his kids. He we co has costume ideas for your kids, but they'll actually go one step further and help your kids make their own costumes. Your kid can be a key code unicorn but chirico dinosaur of kiwi Co UFO very timely with all the area 51 stuff going on right now. If the kid in your life isn't into dressing up Kimiko has other Halloween ideas. You can make a pacman inspired glowing ghost and they have a glow-in-the-dark flower project that looks kind of creepy and then best of all a spider launcher guys. Keep those got all sorts of fun for kids of all ages and you can try it out right now for free at kiwi co.com.

1 (10m 40s):
Explain. Okay, Alex National Security advisor. Hugely important job. The Trump Administration has had three in not even as many years yet. What does this mean for the nation's foreign policy?

3 (11m 6s):
Here's what I think it means and I don't know if you might see this as a good or bad thing, but Donald Trump is firmly in control of his foreign policy period I don't know.

1 (11m 19s):
I don't know what to think of that. What do you

3 (11m 21s):
mean? Let me put it this way if you were worried that John Bolton was going to lead Trump in two Wars with Iran and North Korea and elsewhere. He didn't lead Trump in two Wars with Iran and North Korea and elsewhere. He did help increase the pressure on these countries on North Korea on Iran on in Venezuela. You may remember that we are backing effectively a coup attempt against Maduro that's part of Bolton policy. But if we also look at sort of the grand picture here Trump's foreign policy did not change with Bolton the White House and so regardless I think of who Trump picks to replace Bolton like there will be more continuity than

1 (11m 55s):
change. Let's dig into some of these major conflicts that are you know, still unresolved. I mean, where are we with North Korea now that Bolton's gone.

3 (12m 5s):
Well, let's recall that part of the reason not fully but part of the reason that the u.s. North great do not have a deal as because of John Bolton pretty soon after Bolden joined Administration. He went on a Sunday new show and he said that will President Trump insist that Kim give up ship out all of us nuclear weapons all of his nuclear fuel all of his ballistic missiles before the u.s. Makes any concessions. Yeah. I think that's what denuclearization means and we

1 (12m 35s):
have very much in mind the Libya model from 2003 2004.

3 (12m 40s):
Well North Korea does not like that. They saw what happened to Qaddafi at you gave up his nuclear weapons and I don't think Kim Jung Hoon wants to fate so you could give Bolton marks for making it harder for the u.s. North Korea to sign a deal but he did not succeed in getting Trump to abandon that diplomatic

1 (12m 57s):
process. What about Iran? So

3 (12m 59s):
Bolden joined an April 2018 and then in May 2018 the u.s. Left Iran nuclear deal. And that was something that Bolton wanted ripped up and Trump did too. So they were sympatico on that. But we're I think Bolton definitely would have pushed Trump is hey, maybe if we bomb certain parts of their nuclear, Program maybe if we use more Force this might be another way to get Iran to the negotiating table that you want Trump was. Like I just want them to do a better deal. I don't want that have nuclear weapons ever. I don't want them to support terrorists ever. I don't want them to test missiles ever and bolt and supported all of that but also support a regime change and it doesn't seem like Trump did so the basic sort of tagline for Bolton is like he and Trump aligned on a lot but he always wanted to go further than Trump and that's where I think they were I think Bolton rubbed him the wrong way

1 (13m 45s):
and Afghanistan

3 (13m 47s):
bouldin is incredibly skeptical of doing any sort of deal with America's adversaries right whether beer on whether it be Maduro whether it be North Korea or whether it be in this case Taliban and so the notion that Trump was not only going to sign a peace deal with the Taliban that had recently been killing American troops and has just been increasing its attacks to bring them to Camp David Wright a kind of a sacred ground not only for American foreign policy, which is the presidency in general. So close to September 11th. I'm Sure, Bolton hated that and and in fact, he hated the peace process the entire time

1 (14m 21s):
the president of the national Iranian American Council released a statement today congratulating President Trump on Bolton's departure saying it may become the best decision of his presidency and noting that quote the single move dramatically reduces the chances of a new catastrophic war in the Middle East Bolton's always been hawkish. He's always been skeptical of the UN did like the international order breathe some kind of sigh of relief today I think to a certain extent

3 (14m 54s):
but I think you can look at this two ways way one is the most hawkish person ever to be in Trump's orbit is gone and left before convincing the president to launch a catastrophic War. You can consider that a win

1 (15m 7s):
which war was that again? That's North

3 (15m 9s):
Korea and Iran. Okay and another way to look at it. Is that one of the most able People that Trump has had in his administration arguably the most able the most DC Savvy the most knowledgeable about a lot of these issues. You may disagree with his views but he's very knowledgeable about a lot of these issues. He's gone and Trump is instead going to replace someone who would at least challenge Trump's instincts with someone who's more likely to be sycophantic and someone who's more likely to just agree with him. And so you now are going to have kind of more Trump in your foreign policy. Now you may think that's better than not having bolt in there. And I think that's a fair take but you need to know that Bolden has tons of relationships with people around the world.

3 (15m 51s):
He is liked by a lot of people around the world. He's an able DC Insider. That's a loss of this Administration that is still somewhat devoid of

1 (15m 60s):
experience. And is that the way to survive in this administration at this point I suppose it's worth asking. How do you remain in this Administration if you have views that oppose President

3 (16m 13s):
Trump's I think the absolute blueprint is Mike Pompeo. Mike Pompeo has been with Trump since day one first the CIA director now Secretary of State and what he's done, especially since taking the top Diplomat job is just side with Trump on everything. He may offer some thoughts behind closed doors, but at the end of the day like in public a staunch defender of trump a staunch defender of his policies what Trump likes is the spectacle of I am the leader and I have these guys defending me at all times and Bolton did that to a certain extent but he was also more equivocal. He was also certain time saying like look, you know My Views, but I'm the National Security advisor not the National Security decider.

3 (16m 54s):
And so that's how it was away. He would kind of always be like, alright media, you know where I'm at on this, you know trumpet I disagree on this but I give my advice and Trump does what he wants.

1 (17m 10s):
Alex Ward writes about National Security here at vaux you can hear him on the world lead podcast every Thursday. He's one of the co-hosts of that joint and I bet this week. They might just talk a little bit more about John Bolton. I'm Sean Rama's firm. This is today explained. Thanks to Kiwi Co for supporting this episode of today explained one last reminder that Kiko would like to give all of our listeners here at today explain to chance to try their fun engaging projects about Science and Technology and Engineering and arts and math out for free and you can take them up on that offer at kiwi co.com / explained right now.