1 (0s):
Here's the deal support for the show today comes from Rise.com. It's an all-in-one system that makes online training easy to create enjoyable to take and simple to manage Learners love rise because training is beautiful and interactive managers love rise because training is simple to create distribute and analyze an it loves rise because it's completely secure. No joke on my deathbed hopefully decades from now. I'll probably look back on my life and my last dying words will be see. Why you All love Rise by starting a free 30-day trial at rise.com today.

2 (40s):
If you caught the show yesterday you heard the black lives matter is

1 (43s):
working all across the United States. There's a racial Reckoning taking place. And that means Justice Just As for George Floyd Derek Chauvin is behind bars charged with murder. Just as for a mod are burry this week. The three men involved in his killing were indicted but justice has been more slow going for Brianna Taylor. She was shot to death by Police officers in Louisville, Kentucky in mid-march, but no one's been charged with anything. But that doesn't mean calls for justice for Brianna aren't working.

2 (1m 17s):
They might even be working in ways. No one could have

1 (1m 19s):
predicted believe it or not right now. Just as for Briana

2 (1m 23s):
has the potential to unseat

1 (1m 25s):
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell today. We're talking to local reporters from the Louisville Courier-Journal to find out how we're going to start with Tessa Duval. She's been covering the Rihanna's case

3 (1m 37s):
Brianna Taylor was a 26 year old woman living in Louisville, Kentucky. She was an ER Tech working at to area hospitals and her mom described her Ambitions for the future as you know, she wanted to be a nurse she wanted to you know further her career in the medical field. She wanted to have her own family and have a house and she said that she was determined young woman who was going to make those things happen. Future

2 (2m 11s):
Brianna was amazing every I don't know anybody who didn't love Briana and I seek she just was a very sweet person. She loved family. She loved life. She loved to help

1 (2m 22s):
people. How did the world come to know her name take us back to the night where the police entered her

3 (2m 30s):
apartment, Brianna Taylor was at home in her Louisville apartment the night of March 12th into the early morning hours of March 13th. She was there with her boyfriend Kenneth Walker and connect Walker said that he and Brianna were in bed watching a movie. It's almost 1:00 a.m. They're drifting off to sleep. And that's when they start hearing a Bangin on the

2 (2m 56s):
door first day. She says who is it? No response. So like what the heck we both get up start putting on clothes not a knock at the door. She's like, who is it loud at the top of her lungs? No response.

3 (3m 11s):
And so they think okay. Maybe this is one of Brianna's exes. Maybe it's someone trying to rob them Kim's Walker says that they have no idea who's on the other side of the door.

2 (3m 24s):
Legal, I got invited to carry everything up there in 500 outside of a range. I was scared to death. So she says there is another knock at the door. She's yelling at the top of our lungs and I am to at this point, who is it? No answer no response. No

3 (3m 41s):
anything we have said from their side of the door is that they are they are knocking they are announcing. They don't intend to use the battering ram to get in they want to give her time to open the door. They're identifying themselves as police and meanwhile Kenneth according to statements. He's made is inside. He fires this warning shot and on the other side, you know, please gain entry using the battery ran and immediately Sergeant Mattingly, even the door comes open is shot in the the central artery and so he returns fire and what ensues over the next few minutes is Three officers fire their weapons at Brianna's apartment at least one officer.

3 (4m 30s):
We now know was alleged to be firing from outside of the apartment through a patio door with curtains over it. So in this in this exchange of gunfire, if you can you can really call it an exchange because Kenneth Walker says he only fired one shot though. It did strike an officer. Brianna is struck at least eight times according to a lawsuit filed. I'll buy her family and she died in the Hall of her apartment.

1 (5m 8s):
What were the police even doing there?

3 (5m 10s):
So the night that Brianna Taylor died police actually had five search warrants related to the same broader narcotics investigation and essentially what they're looking for. They're looking for drugs. They're looking for guns. They're just really trying to hone in on several individuals and this drug operation that they have going and so Rihanna's connection to all of She's not a main suspect of the investigation though. She is named in her address is given on the warrant relating to her apartment. It's a common misconception that police were actually at the wrong house when Brianna died that's not true.

3 (5m 57s):
Her name her address her apartment her social her date of birth. We're all on that warrant, but the connection to the broader investigation is also coming under Scrutiny a detective wrote that he had observed one of the main suspects getting a package from Brianna Taylor's apartment and then driving to one of these known drug houses. He also on the affidavit for the search warrant wrote that this individual used briana's apartment as his address on several records and found it in several databases, and he also said that the Postal Inspector confirmed that this individual was getting packages back in January at Brianna's apartment as well.

3 (6m 48s):
But since then the Postal Inspector has actually come out and told another news Outlet in Louisville that that was actually not the case that he did not tell this detective that and so now the detective who obtained these five search warrants for the for the early morning hours of March 13th is We also on administrative reassignment and his connection to all of this is also being investigated by the attorney general and other law enforcement agencies that are looking into the shooting and the broader circumstances surrounding

1 (7m 22s):
it who was this individual and did this ultimately have anything to do with Brianna

3 (7m 29s):
herself? So what Rihanna Taylor's attorney said is that this individual who is one of the main suspects his name is JaMarcus Glover. Got to Taylor's family attorney says that they dated a couple of years ago and they have maintained what he called a passive friendship. And so that's that's the connection between them according to an attorney for her family. Now, we are still awaiting the full results of the investigation but the inventory log from the search that was conducted after the shooting at me.

3 (8m 10s):
On us turned up shell casings and it turned off. You know, I phone ID for you know for her for Kenneth Walker but there were no drugs listed on what was found and that search warrant at her apartment. So her connection or her role in all of this. It's either not fully established or it's not as strong as what police may have led us to believe

1 (8m 40s):
so Taylor is shot and killed by police in her apartment on March 13th, which I believe is a Friday what happens next what happens say in the next week?

3 (8m 52s):
So anytime there's a police involved shooting the local police department and police chief get out in front of local reporters and they talk about what happens, you know, what is the condition of the officer involved the press conference following Brianna's death was very short very minimal.

2 (9m 10s):
Is not in the door several times and announce their presence as police who were there with a search warrant the officers forced entry into the exterior door and were immediately met by gunfire

3 (9m 23s):
and then Brown is boyfriend was also charged in relation to that night because he did fire a shot that hit Sergeant Jonathan Mattingly in the femoral artery which is you know, a serious injury and so for much of March, that's the focus. When you started to see protests, you know taking off in Minneapolis and in other cities Across America, I think that that resonated and mobile as well. So we are coming up on almost a month of daily protests in Louisville, and it is very focused on say her name Brianna Taylor getting Justice for Brianna Taylor.

3 (10m 8s):
These are the rallying cries and of course, there's people talking About George Floyd and you know all these other victims of racially motivated violence and police killings and people here have not have not lost sight of who Brianna Taylor is and what it is that they are after at first, you know, there are a lot of outcries over the way police have have handled not only Brianna's case, but I've handled the ensuing. Tests, I believe it was the third or fourth night of protests and Louisville the National Guard and Louisville police officers were involved in a shooting that killed another black Citizen of Louisville David mcatee.

3 (10m 57s):
And so you have protest over police violence and then during those protests over police violence the National Guard and police kill another black American. So the police If you had already announced that he was going to retire is then fired

2 (11m 14s):
this type of institutional failure will not be tolerated. Accordingly I have relieved Steve Conrad of his duties as chief of Louisville Metro Police

3 (11m 24s):
Department. Another big talking point in the Brianna Taylor case is why weren't the police wearing body cameras? And so the mayor has since announced that police anytime they are acting in their official capacity when they're serving sort search warrant. They're going to be wearing body cameras. Another big thing that activists have been pushing for is why did police haven't Knock search warrants. Why are we even using no-knock search warrants on narcotics investigations? And so the mayor and police chief said, okay. We're going to implement this new policy where any no-knock search warrant has to be signed off by a chief and then actually they come back and say well we're going to suspend no-knock search warrants and then Metro Council comes up with this ordinance to to scale them back for only the most heinous offenses.

3 (12m 16s):
And then for a lot of activists, that's not Good enough. And so the legislation that was ultimately passed unanimously by all 26 members of Metro Council and signed by the mayor was a total ban on no-knock search warrants for Louisville

2 (12m 31s):
Police and leading a bipartisan effort to create Brianna's law. And where is the little Metro council is wishing to honor the memory of Rihanna Taylor so that her name will never be forgotten. Hereby declares today as Briana. Briana is law day. Say her name Brianna Taylor, Brianna Taylor Brianna Taylor.

3 (12m 55s):
And so we went from having a policy that said okay, the the police chief has to sign off to a total and complete ban and the span of about a

1 (13m 6s):
month. So there's been changes to police policy. What about the officers involved in the killing of Brianna Taylor

3 (13m 22s):
in the aftermath of the shooting at Brianna Taylor's apartment. We learned that three officers fired their weapons that night and they were all immediately placed on administrative reassignment which is standard operating procedure and the wake of any shooting involving police officers. Now one of them has actually been Fired by the city that's officer Brett Hankerson and in his termination letter from the interim police chief. We have been told that he is accused of firing his weapon quotes blindly from outside of the apartment without knowing what he was shooting at and did so for at least ten rounds now, he had a termination hearing and the department.

3 (14m 13s):
We decided to fire him but he still has the opportunity to appeal that in the future. You know, there are a lot of people protesting you say that's that's way too long for any kind of action to be taken and really it all comes down to the fact that the investigation is still ongoing so It's frustrating to people who have seen more immediate results in places like Minneapolis and Atlanta when there are other allegations of police misconduct and police violence that it looks like things are moving faster.

3 (14m 59s):
They're an important difference in the Brianna Taylor case is there's not video of her death, you know, we've been told that these officers The three who fired their weapons that night were not wearing body cameras at the time that they were serving this warrant. I think that being able to see it directly is a big factor for a lot of these other cases that we've seen that has produced more immediate justice, but we just don't have that in this case.

2 (15m 41s):
Justice is that it up for Freedom or freedom and it was asking when I love that is in action. I said up for black women because it's a black woman who told me to say her name her name after the break. We'll hear from want to test his colleagues at The Courier-Journal about how Justice for Brianna Taylor has upended the race for Mitch McConnell's seats in the United States Senate. Brianna Taylor

1 (16m 17s):
Are you still eating food? If so, you might want to try the caviar

2 (16m 26s):
app unlike? All those other apps caviar is the best place to find smaller local restaurants that needs your support right now more than ever and you can find all sorts of food on caviar. For example food you want to eat for breakfast food you want to eat for lunch food you want to eat for dinner?

1 (16m 48s):
Food you want to eat after

2 (16m 49s):
dinner food that you maybe want to eat between all of those moments. I just

3 (16m 53s):
mentioned and right now just for our listeners caviar is offering

2 (16m 58s):
$10 off an order of $20 or more. All you have to do is put in the offer code explained when you checkout remember that is $10 off the purchase of $20 or more with the offer code explained. So go ahead and download the caviar app on the app

1 (17m 16s):
store or in

2 (17m 17s):
Google Play and use the offer code explained. Have you guys watched 60 in six yet? It's that show on

1 (17m 31s):
quippy that delivers award winning journalism ingest minutes from

2 (17m 35s):
the team behind the original 60 Minutes on CBS 2 shows for correspondence offer different perspectives on the most relevant stories of today and the latest episode of 60 and six ways the pros and cons of using artificial intelligence as a substitute for human interaction correspondent Laurie Segall. Covers the story of how Society is relying on AI to fill romantic voids overcome depression and cure loneliness as we adapt to an ever-growing isolated World oof sounds heartbreaking you can watch 60 in six weekly on quippy. It's a new streaming app with original short-form shows built to bring you quality entertainment and news to any minute of your day.

2 (18m 18s):
It's spelled Q UI bi and you can download the quippy app now for a a two week free trial

1 (18m 36s):
It's fully explained. I'm Sean Rama's firm up until a few weeks ago when people talked about the senate race in Kentucky. They talked about Amy McGrath Amy McGrath the former Marine fighter pilot who was gonna challenge Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell the Democratic party put all its weight behind her not because it necessarily thought she could win but because she could certainly raise a boatload of money fighting Mitch, Kentucky had Primary this week on Tuesday a McGrath was supposed to Coast to victory over the other Democrats vying to run against Mitch, but she didn't because of Brianna Taylor the justice for Brianna Taylor movement has been helping the candidacy of a guy named Charles Booker.

1 (19m 21s):
Oh Charles is running on Medicare for all he's running on climate change and a green New Deal what he calls a Kentucky New Deal. He's running on legalization of marijuana. He believes in Nations Philip and Bailey covers politics for The Courier-Journal lately, that means he covers Charles Booker. He's running as a lefty. Whereas in these past challenges of McConnell. I've always sort of tried to appeal to the middle trying to flip certain conservative voters to same old McConnell doesn't care about you Charles has started from a different premise. He starting from here my values they are clearly left of center and Mitch McConnell doesn't care about you. So rather than playing this game where the McConnell campaign often tries to get These Democratic candidates to say aren't you really a liberal Charles is starting from a premise of I voted for Bernie Sanders in 2016 in the primary.

1 (20m 9s):
I ultimately voted for Hillary Clinton and I was endorsed by Bernie Sanders and I am divorced him for President. Right? He's starting from a whole different premise and one that the Kentucky left particularly in Louisville Lexington those areas and in parts of rural Appalachia have been begging for which is be true to your values at the outset and let's work from there. Tell me how Charles Booker differs from Any McGrath or even Mitch McConnell on black lives matter specifically there is what I call the white woke the both Millennials bore from 1981 to 96. But also Generation Z demographer show are emerging as a real voting Bloc and bulk here. So what Charles is benefiting from is he's coming along at the right time black lives matter means something very different to white people below the age of 39 than it does to White Baby Boomers and those who are older so Feels much more comfortable in these settings whether it's in Louisville or it's an Eastern Kentucky went out to Whitesburg, right all the way up Eastern Kentucky and had a black lives matter rally that he participated in there were black lives matter marches in Corbin Kentucky, which has a history of racial Strife from the early 20th century when they literally put all the African Americans on a train and ship them away to Tennessee.

1 (21m 25s):
So he's benefiting in a way that I think a lot of mainstream Democrats just weren't prepared for McGrath when they had their single debate for the Democratic primary. She was asked have you participated in any of these protests in Louisville Lexington, and she said I did

2 (21m 38s):
not well I've been with my family and I've had some family things

3 (21m 43s):
going on this past weekend, but I've been following the news and you know and watching and making sure that you know, I think in we're in the middle of a pandemic, so we also have to look at you know, is that the place to be right now Booker's

1 (21m 60s):
camping immediately pounces on Uses that clip in an ad and then juxtaposes her comments with Charles being on the steps in front of people with a mask on.

2 (22m 14s):
Is their neighbor is a fellow good Troublemaker. My name is Charles booger. For Mitch McConnell, I

1 (22m 23s):
think he's also caught in a shift here. He pretty early on Embrace Brianna Taylor putting her name in The Resolution. He's obviously trying to stitch together along with Republican. Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina some sort of police reform efforts, but at the same time, it's pretty clear when you listen to the people in the streets, whether they're in Louisville Minneapolis or George Floyd was killed Atlanta, etc. Etc. They're demanding far greater reforms than simply, you know, like what they were doing last time. Which is body camera, there's a whole defund police movement talking about shifting money away from police departments into Health Care Centers into more Social Services housing Etc that I think Charles is certainly seen as the more authentic candidate for more so than McGrath and definitely more.

1 (23m 9s):
So by these lefties in the street The McConnell and that authenticity Booker has relates back to Brianna Taylor. There's a connection there absolutely but he wasn't being opportunistic. It wasn't like this happened and then suddenly he Began to adopt the black lives matter language. He has an Infamous floor speech as a State Rep.

2 (23m 28s):
What a roller coaster. I've been on this session. I've laid all my stories out for you. I explained to you how these types of laws like 150 would kill

1 (23m 39s):
people. He then speaks over his time and his microphone is cut off. He's got without and told to sit down

2 (23m 45s):
by some so lawmakers and he screams out my life matters who's speaking manages my life matters because you are out of your three minutes are up. This was months

1 (23m 58s):
before Brianna Taylor was even killed. So Charles was able to bring an authenticity to this connecting mainstream electoral politics to this Grassroots movement in a way that did not seem forced did not seem consulted to death and seem very authentic. It's also very personal for Charles as well his cousin TJ who was killed in Louisville not by police, but years ago, it was a part of this group of called the Miss identified for we got wrapped up into a police. Just where they were innocent of very similar to the Central Park five. His cousin was friends with Brianna Taylor. Like they were personal friends when they were young people when they were teenagers and he talks about that often.

1 (24m 39s):
So Charles not only has the benefit of this lightning bolt in this luck of being this African-American candidate speaking about this issues whether its mass movement happens literally in his political backyard, but he also has personal connections to these individuals in a way that Amy McGrath and Mitch McConnell do not So you had this election on Tuesday? I know the results aren't final yet. But how's it looking? I'm not really willing to say what these these early numbers actually mean overall. These are so so marginal of our overall vote. It's really not very clear. But one thing I think we can say is that Charles Booker has already won. He's captured the hearts and minds and Imagination of the Kentucky left in a way that you've never seen before.

1 (25m 22s):
So Booker has I think already done something that he was never anticipated to And even if a McGrath wins this race, she's going to come in with a flat tire your you were picked by the National Party. You've raised a ton of money outrage Mitch McConnell and yet you weren't able to get 51% or it seemed like you were having a very difficult time finishing off. Someone who many people considered a nobody a few months ago. Let's say Booker does beat Amy McGrath which would be this enormous upset. What do you think? It would mean for Louisville Kentucky the country if he could defeat the Senate Majority Leader. Well if Charles Booker and I've known Charles for I think maybe 16 years or so.

1 (26m 3s):
We went to U of L together. I'll say this if he defeats a McGrath, it's probably the greatest political upset in Kentucky's history and maybe one of the greatest political upsets in the country's history. It's going to be an uphill battle if Charles is the Victor against Mitch McConnell, but one thing I think people can't say if Charles is a nominee. You can't say. Oh, he's the underdog is no way he can beat Mitch McConnell. That's the exact same thing. People said about him and a McGrath. So I think what it is it's at Just it's a test of an African-American candidate was going to have hugely popular in large numbers in those communities. But it also says something about the changing White Community particularly. Like I said this white woke generation of Millennials and Generation Z together who seemed to take according to polling black lives matter far more seriously.

1 (26m 48s):
We're not in the post-civil rights generation anymore. We're in the post-obama generation the kids who are growing up now the young people who are voting now they grew up with An African American president when they were when they were teenagers or young children, and now they're voting they're not shocked by or on accustomed to seeing a black first family to seen black children Milling about and playing in the white house to see an African-American a dark-skinned African-American woman as first lady of the United States. It's not something that they're even uneasy about or what I call like white liberal skepticism, you know, when a white person who says that they're very racially of mind but they'll go and say I just don't know if we're ready to do that. Are we ready for? That's not I think what people are seeing here and that's shifting not just along lines of race.

1 (27m 33s):
I think we're seeing that shift along lines of lgbtq identity. I think we're seeing it also, perhaps even shift with women in public office where people aren't as skeptical or naysayers like they were and that was the first hump. I think they really Charles had to overcome here in Kentucky. You had a lot of mainstream Democrats saying we first got in I like Charles. I know him. I agree with it. I agree with his policies, right? Let's say the kid he do well outside of Louisville. That's a wink and a nod Nicole word of he's black. Can we do well a couple of things Kentucky last year elected an African-American as attorney general now Daniel Cameron who's Mitch McConnell's Protege in many ways is a conservative conservative, but still breaking that glass ceiling I think shows that Kentucky is in a different place historically than it was 20 30 50 years ago.

1 (28m 18s):
And I think also again you have to go to this Coalition that Charles was building urban African Americans sort of suburban Urban liberal White's Young. Liberal White's and so your counterculture Baby Boomers out in these rural areas who are frustrated by Senator McConnell and maybe turning on President Trump as well. He's putting together a coalition and he's putting together an

4 (28m 39s):
experiment.

1 (28m 43s):
The Democrats were behind him. Say look every other Democrat you throw against Mitch McConnell for the past 35 years has lost Senator McConnell was elected in 1984 when Charles and I were both born. He's always been the senator as far as I've been concerned. So the thought is that Let's try something different amongst Democrats. And I think that's what those who are supporting Charles are doing I think that's why even the graph is having a problem even with all her money and traditional campaign infrastructure is having a hard time getting over that 51 percent threshold.

2 (29m 15s):
Well, I hope we can be in touch as this race plays out and hear back from you

1 (29m 19s):
again. Yep. Thank you, sir. Alright, thanks very

4 (29m 22s):
much.

1 (29m 28s):
Philip M Bailey and Tessa

2 (29m 29s):
Duval are both reporters at The Courier-Journal in Louisville, Kentucky. They've been doing great work on the Brianna Taylor story. You can read and support it at Courier - journal.com the today explain team. Includes Amna al-saadi Halima Shaw theme Shapiro Bridget McCarthy mu JT Jillian Weinberger and know I'm hassenfeld who makes music for the show along with the mysterious brake master cylinder. Cecilia lay is our fact Checker and Liz Kelly Nelson is vaux's editorial director of podcasts today explained is part of the VOX media podcast

1 (30m 2s):
Network.

2 (30m 15s):
No one would ever thought an entrenched immunity like Hollywood could let someone come in and completely disrupt the content. I'm Ronnie Mo Le and I'm Peter Kafka and we are the host of a new season Land of the Giants the Netflix effect for exploring all things Netflix by talking with people who started the company will get into their bruising battle with Blockbuster. There was 20 times larger than us, which is not a good place to be. Okay. So in many ways, I feel like so relatively lucky to survived. We'll look at the mistake that could have ended the company in hindsight. It was incredibly tone-deaf and it blew up in our faces as it should have and we'll talk about how Netflix took over our screens and how they plan to win the war for our attention Land of the Giants the Netflix effect from recode in the Box media podcast Network first episode drops, June 23rd.

2 (31m 3s):
Listen And subscribe on Apple podcast Spotify or wherever you get your buck. Yes.