0 (1s):
Last night around 9:00 PM outside the Supreme court of the United States sounded kind of like this, But by 11:00 PM, it sounded more like this But the curious thing is the Supreme court hadn't issued a controversial opinion. Instead, a historic one had leaked On today, explained we're going to explore justice.

0 (42s):
Samuel Alito is draft opinion that would overturn Roe V Wade and find out what this might mean for reproductive rights in the United States Support for the shelter they comes from future. You know, the guy with the song about the masks on or the masks off. No, I'm sorry. Sorry. I'm getting now. I'm getting a messenger future. Is the app shaking up? How people think about exercise and self motivation might be by pairing you with your own personal fitness coach. Future holds you accountable and helps you work towards your goals.

0 (1m 22s):
With the support of an expert. Get started right now with 50% off your first three months at try future.com/explained again, that is try future.com/explained again, not the rapper future, the app, the app or future goodbye.

5 (1m 43s):
Dakota is a show about how big ideas really work and where they might go wrong. Hosted by me, Neil Patel editor in chief of the verge. I interview CEOs, policymakers, tech, experts, and creators about how they make decisions and how those decisions affect our shared future for better or worse past episodes have covered everything from self-driving cars to crypto, to social media moderation. It's a thoughtful, critical conversation about business and technology that you will not hear anywhere else. Follow Dakota, wherever you find your podcasts, new episodes come out. Every Tuesday.

0 (2m 25s):
It's state explained I'm Sean, Rama's from your Erin Carmen senior correspondent at New York magazine. Erin, a lot of people are upset about this draft opinion from the Supreme court. A lot of people are probably thrilled about it too few have read it. Have you read this draft Alito opinion?

7 (2m 42s):
I have had the pleasure of reading all 68 pages of the draft Alito opinion

0 (2m 47s):
And give us the headline for

7 (2m 48s):
Anyone who's been paying attention to the conservative movement, the conservative legal movements, critiques of Roe V. Wade. There's going to be a lot. That's familiar here. It's pretty every mainstream conservative by which I mean it's a pretty extreme catalog of critiques of Roe V. Wade.

0 (3m 9s):
Before we get into the arguments in this draft opinion, can we just dial it back and talk about where this case even came from? What is the case Alito? What wrote this draft opinion for,

7 (3m 24s):
For decades conservatives in state legislatures have been passing laws that are kind of teeing up challenges to Roe V. Wade testing, how far the court is ready to go. So this particular law came out of Mississippi. It banned abortion at 15 weeks, which is later than some of the laws that the court has considered in this very term, but was set up, I think, to try to chip away at the viability standard, which is what Roe and its successor planned parenthood versus Casey have said that you cannot ban abortion before fetal viability, which is the sort of somewhat arbitrary line in which a fetus could hypothetically survive.

7 (4m 9s):
And so all the attempts to get rid of the fetal viability line have been unsuccessful. The court has not even agreed to hear them until this term, probably because Trump was able to appoint three Supreme court justices. And when justice Ginsburg died and was replaced by Amy Coney Barrett, Mississippi actually rewrote its question that it asks the court to hear it had previously asked the court to consider just whether a 15 week line is reasonable. And it re you know, in the sort of later stage at filed a brief saying are Roe V Wade and planned parenthood versus Casey. These precedents that have kept states from banning abortion, are they constitutional?

7 (4m 52s):
Should they be overruled?

0 (4m 55s):
So this went from being a case that would chip away further at Roe V Wade, to a case that had the potential to overturn it.

7 (5m 4s):
It's exactly right. And in oral argument in December justice, Briar actually called out Mississippi for doing this.

9 (5m 10s):
And it is particularly important to show what we do in overturning a case is grounded in principle and not social pressure, not political pressure, only quote, the most convincing justification can show that a later decision overruling, if that's what we did was anything but a surrender to political pressures, core new members.

7 (5m 36s):
But once they realized that they had a stronger conservative presence on the court, again, not just Anthony Kennedy who had repeatedly declined to overturn bro being replaced by Brett Kavanaugh, but then justice Ginsburg being replaced by Amy Coney Barrett. It strengthened the sense that they could at least get to five and maybe even six

0 (5m 59s):
Did people watching the court expect this possibility that this could be the case that finally overturns Roe V Wade, after almost 50 years,

7 (6m 10s):
There was nothing extraordinary about this Mississippi law. What was extraordinary is that the core degree to take it? So once the court said, we're going to reconsider something that we've repeatedly said, you cannot do the mere decision to take that. Although it only takes four justices to take up a case. Usually they won't take up a case. They think they're going to lose because they don't want to strengthen the existing precedent that says abortion is legal. Once the court says, this is up for grabs, anybody who's paying attention can say something substantial is about to change here. And indeed when the oral argument was heard in December, you could go back and read the summaries of it now and just see exactly what we read in the draft opinion, which is that five justices were openly hostile, not just to, you know, this idea of whether abortion should be legal at 15 weeks or not.

7 (7m 3s):
But the very underpinnings that for 49 years have governed American law.

9 (7m 8s):
You think about some of the most important cases, the most consequential cases in this court's history, there's a string of them where the cases overruled Preston brown V board outlawed, separate but equal.

7 (7m 23s):
And then you have John Roberts trying to theoretically find a middle line, but that would also involve throwing out row without saying the words were overturning row.

10 (7m 33s):
I'd like to focus on the 15 week ban because that's not a dramatic departure from a viability. It is the standard that the vast majority of other countries have when you get to the viability standard. We share that standard with the people's Republic of China in North Korea,

0 (7m 55s):
Let's get a little more specific about what exactly justice Alito writes in this draft opinion.

7 (8m 1s):
Sure. So in his draft, Alito says that abortion is not explicitly mentioned in the constitution. He says, and this is a quote, a right to abortion is not deeply rooted in the nation's history and traditions. So that's a sort of fallback that if, if the word abortion is not in the constitution, there's this sort of originalist argument saying it's not D whether it's deeply rooted in the nation's history and tradition. He also says that due process claims under the 14th amendment are not legitimate. Now these are the same arguments. The due process arguments it's called substantive due process have been used to underpin decisions involving striking down sodomy laws, the right for couples and single people to use contraception, the right to marry.

7 (8m 51s):
But he says, don't worry. Those opinions are totally safe because abortion's fundamentally different. He says, it destroys with those decisions called fetal life. What the law before us now describes as an unborn human being. So he says it's different because of the separate status of the fetus, which we are now kind of swinging the pendulum towards valuing the status of the fetus over that of the pregnant person, although he would ever use that phrase,

0 (9m 17s):
Why is he telling people not to worry about, you know, gay marriage or anti sodomy laws

7 (9m 23s):
Because they are right to worry about them. I mean, of course, just because he says, don't worry. It doesn't really mean anything because these are all cases that come from the same legal reasoning, the same precedence building on each other, they right to privacy, right. To Liberty, to some extent equality. So, so these are, these are ones also that, that service of movement, I mean, Alito dissented, for example. So to John Roberts in Obergefell, the decision that that made same-sex marriage legal throughout the land. So people would be right to worry about them. But leader also wrote the opinion in hobby lobby, which tacitly accepted that the contraceptive forms used by millions of people are quote unquote abortifacient, despite any evidence showing that the other thing that a leader does in this draft opinion is he responds to claims that you should not overturn Roe because of starry decisis, because of the principle that the court should move very, very slowly and try not to upend existing precedent because people rely on it and the law relies on it.

7 (10m 27s):
And, and it's just too, you know, there's all sorts of reasons why the court, the court has developed that you should not overturn major precedents, but he says the precedent does not compel an ending adherence to ruse abuse of judicial authority. So basically he says that from the beginning, the court should not have made this decision. It should return to the people's elected representatives. So he would like to basically put up people's individual reproductive decision-making to a vote of the majority.

0 (10m 58s):
He's saying this should be something that is legislated by Congress, not decided by the Supreme court,

7 (11m 5s):
By Congress or by individual states.

0 (11m 8s):
He also says, Roe V Wade only further deepened divisions in this country. It didn't solve anything.

7 (11m 16s):
Yes. And, and, and, and to do so. He also relies on some of the critiques from the early 1980s that were developed by Ruth Bader Ginsburg as a law professor first, and then as a judge on the DC circuit. And it, you know, to, to my mind, as the author of Ginsburg biography, it's kind of a troll, it's saying, look, even Ruth Bader Ginsburg didn't like row, but she didn't like row because she thought that it needed to have equality, reasoning. She thought that the government needed to fund abortions. She thought it didn't go far enough. And she didn't like the way it was written. And so, you know, it's, it's a bad faith argument, but you know, another way in which the Supreme court has justified us decisions is to say, this is a contentious issue, but we need to hand down some kind of stable settlement for the country.

7 (12m 2s):
And he says, it never did that because many people still oppose abortion.

0 (12m 6s):
How many justices did Alito get to sign on to this draft opinion?

7 (12m 11s):
We don't exactly know the answer to that. So Politico reported that it's unclear what chief justice John Roberts is doing or saying, then there's some conflicting reports out there about this. He has the ability to either assign the opinion to himself if he's in the majority or to somebody else. But if he's in the minority, the next most senior member of the conservatives in this case, it would have been the conservatives. And in almost every consequential case, Clarence Thomas actually justice Thomas would have been the one to assign it. Now, justice Thomas has written many times about thinking, but not only is row unconstitutional, but the entire framework of substantive due process needs to be thrown out.

7 (12m 54s):
It doesn't exist in the 14th amendment, it's his opinion. So he may have not been able to keep a majority together with his own opinions, but it appears that what happened is that there's a majority, which again, on a quarter of nine, you need five justices. And that some, at some point Alita was assigned to write a majority opinion now in the circulating of drafts, which is apparently what we are seeing, it has been known for justices to change their minds. So sometimes when an actual opinion is written and then a dissent is written, and this is really rare, but justices have talked about how in the writing, in the arguments, there's a sort of intellectual or legal or political, I would say haggling where they say, well, I would sign onto your opinion if X, Y, and Z or maybe, and this is again, incredibly rare.

7 (13m 49s):
Somebody reads a descent and says, actually, I'm so persuaded by the dissent that I'm going to change my vote. Now about a week before this leaked, the wall street journal editorial board, which is very plugged in, it has written before accurately about what chief justice John Roberts is thinking and trying to kind of keep him into the conservative fold. They said, they claimed that just justice Roberts was trying to write a, a sort of separate opinion that would peel off one of the conservatives. So if they indeed have five for a Leidos opinion, they would just one person with could fold, or one person could join a slightly less extreme opinion in John Roberts direction.

7 (14m 34s):
And even if they all agreed that the Mississippi law could be upheld, maybe the ultimate opinion would be less sweeping.

0 (14m 44s):
Got it. So what we know at this point is that someone at the Supreme court leaked this draft opinion authored by justice Alito to Politico. But this is by no means the final word from the Supreme court.

7 (14m 59s):
We do not know if this is the final word,

0 (15m 7s):
More with the Rin Carmo from New York magazine. And a minute on today explained from Vox.

11 (15m 31s):
How would you describe the sounds and smells of the place you grew up for me? It is crickets in the summer and snow in the winter. Snow does have a smell. You know, it does. When you think of new Orleans, you may think of the brass bands or maybe the scent of a freshmen, yea, in the new Ben and Jerry's podcast into the mix host Ashley C. Ford sits down with new Orleans queen of bounce music. Big free to, to talk about Ben yeas. Yes, but more importantly about what big Frida is doing to help eliminate gun violence in her home city. That's something that's touched her personally into the mix, features a big range of guests, sharing how they came to be famous and how they're putting their creativity to work, to drive real change into the mix, check out the podcast.

11 (16m 13s):
Now,

12 (16m 19s):
What do you think about when you hear the word philosophy, Maybe nothing at all, which is totally fine, or maybe it makes you think of a stuffy seminar room or marble bust of dead Greek guys or giant books written a long time ago with little to say about your life. But philosophy is meant to be accessible to everyone at its best. It speaks to issues. We all face every day in the here and now Vox conversations has a new monthly series called the philosophers. Each episode focuses on the ideas of a philosopher or a school of thought from the past and explains why they still matter.

12 (17m 3s):
Today. I talk with some really smart professors, but this is not a college course. We're talking about things that are relevant and vital, and we're interested in ideas that crystallize the world around us. Check out our episode on how our bear Camou can help us understand the war in Ukraine or our newest episode on how Hannah rent describes the political dangers of loneliness. Listen to the philosophers with me, Sean nailing every month, right in the Vox conversations feed

0 (17m 40s):
We're back today explained with Arin Carmona, senior correspondent at New York magazine or rent. If this opinion drops in a few weeks in the same shape, the draft was in what would happen next?

7 (17m 54s):
So about half of us states already have laws on the books, either old laws or they've passed, so-called trigger laws that are waiting for this exact moment that would make abortion either entirely legal or mostly illegal.

0 (18m 8s):
What states are we talking about? So

7 (18m 10s):
Texas, for example, the Supreme court allowed it to ban abortion at six weeks, which was certainly a preview of where we are in the strapped opinion. You've seen actually Texans moving heaven and earth and a substantial number of people. Being able to get abortions before six weeks, which is a Testament to just the efforts that, that the clinics are doing to get them in. And many people going to other states like Oklahoma, Louisiana, Alabama, New Mexico, Colorado. So take Texas, they have a trigger ban on the books that says that if Roe V Wade is overturned, all abortions are illegal. So no longer would every individual who's been able to go before six weeks, be able to go and have all the states that I just named that have been again with great difficulty, able to accept Texas abortion patients.

7 (19m 0s):
Oklahoma just passed a law. I believe it's about to be signed by the governor banning abortion at six weeks, but they could also just ban abortion, wholesale Louisiana, definitely another trigger state, Alabama. So in that entire region of the country, that basically leaves New Mexico and most likely Colorado, where abortion would still be legal as a Texan. If you could get an abortion fund to help you get on a plane that might end up being your best bet,

0 (19m 27s):
Anyone who's been paying attention to the news for the past year is aware that there have already been these extremely severe conservative restrictions placed on abortion throughout the south. How different is this? You know, trigger ban reality from the one that we're in right now.

7 (19m 46s):
I think for folks living in those states, it's already been incredibly difficult to access abortion. They are barred from using their Medicaid coverage. They are forced to jump through hoops like 72 hour waiting periods, multiple visits. They are forced to listen to inaccurate information clinics have been closed down based on spurious regulations. But I think that if this opinion holds, we are about to see that it could always get worse. You know, I mentioned in Texas six week, abortion ban has been in place. Well, in a hundred percent, abortion ban is going to impact those patients a lot more, even though some people don't know that they're pregnant before six weeks, many people have still been able to get the abortion that they need before six weeks, a surprising number, I think.

7 (20m 33s):
And so you're also going to see clinic capacity in states where abortion is going to remain legal, be stretched. And so, you know, New Mexico is a place where a lot of people go, but it's mostly one clinic. You're going to see an expansion of telemedicine, but many of these hostile states have already made telemedicine abortion illegal. So you're also going to see something that, that researchers have found is happening in places like Texas already, which is that non-profit organizations, including ones based overseas that are willing to push the boundaries of the law are doing telemedicine sessions with abortion patients and mailing them pills.

7 (21m 16s):
Now, this is medically very safe, as long as you have access to accurate information and the right medication, but legally we've already seen folks being prosecuted for taking matters into their own hands. Again, it's safer than ever to quote self-manage your abortion. The days of coat hangers do not need to be with us, but prosecutors who have already found out about this with abortion, being legal, have gone after people for ending their pregnancies with pills. So I think we're, we're about to end up in a, in a territory where the choice will be get on a plane. If that's available to you, which we know is going to be really difficult for the most marginalized people drive many, many, many hours.

7 (21m 58s):
If you can even get an appointment, take matters into your own hands, which not everyone is going to be comfortable with. And it's not going to be medically indicated or be forced to remain pregnant against your well,

0 (22m 10s):
Not long after Politico published this leaked opinion last night, people like Senator Bernie Sanders said, you know, now is the time to pass legislation. And if we can't get 60 votes, we should end the filibuster and do it with 50. How plausible is, is any legislation in this moment?

7 (22m 29s):
Well, in the current Congress, Joe mansion has already made it clear that he doesn't support. What's known as the women's health protection act, which would be the legislative solution to row falling. So, so there's already a math problem there. I mean, that was already brought to a vote.

0 (22m 44s):
So, so Bernie saying, let's do it with 50 votes, but they don't have 50 votes.

7 (22m 48s):
They don't have 50 votes unless somehow Susan Collins or Lisa Murkowski decides to cross the aisle. So not only would there have to be a consensus to end the filibuster, they would also need more votes than they currently have. And then, you know, a legislative solution would also potentially end up in the Supreme court. You know? And so for all, Alito is saying, now that this is something that should be left to the people's representatives. See what happens if the Supreme court gets a nationwide abortion law that doesn't let Louisiana, Texas and Oklahoma ban abortion, how will those 63 Supreme court rule on that? And we may not even get to that point, but that's an open question.

0 (23m 25s):
So you're saying this isn't necessarily the end of abortion and the Supreme court of the United States.

7 (23m 30s):
Absolutely not. Some of the reporting that I'm doing now is about attempts in red states, not only to make abortion illegal within their borders, but to try to police with their residents do when they leave the state. So you had this week pass legislation that seeks to protect their providers from lawsuits that might come from other states because there is already this movement to say, it's not enough that I'm going to make abortion illegal within my borders. I'm going to try to prevent any, for example, this was a state in which it was proposed anybody from Missouri, from leaving to the extent that you could enforce it to go to a state where abortion is legal.

7 (24m 10s):
And, and, and that's a pretty terrifying frontier because it's already really, really, really hard to leave the state that you live in for a medical procedure. You know, that that, that should be very quick and simple. And that, that is, it's just a matter of changing your life. It's, it's certainly much more life-changing to have a child, but, but to then the sort of next frontier that the Supreme court may well be asked to consider. If things move as they're looking right now would be, can they try to stop people from leaving their states and going to a more friendly territory for an abortion? And that's a pretty scary prospect. I think that there's a tendency to point to the last election, the last justice to retire or die.

7 (24m 57s):
The last, you know, legislative session. This is actually something that has been the wheels on this have been turning for generations. This is a goal that the conservative legal movement has single-mindedly pursued, and they have, at times they have lost. They've lost many times, even if they've been able to chip away at abortion rights, but they've been laser-focused on sort of picking themselves back up and doing it and what their goal is, is to make abortion illegal everywhere. And so, as shocking as it is, is as enormous of a change in people's lives, as this would be, they've been pretty open that this is what they want to do for a really long time.

7 (25m 37s):
And there are certainly things that accelerated us to this point, but it's really been a long time coming

0 (25m 50s):
And tomorrow show, you're going to hear much more about the decades, long crusade to undo Roe versus Wade. In fact, Noel king will interview one of the leaders of that crusade. You can read a written Carmen in New York magazine or@nymag.com. Our show today was produced by miles Bryan and Heidi Milwaukee, D fact-checked by Laura Bullard and Tori Domingas engineered by Paul mousey and edited by Matthew Collette. And me I'm Sean Rama's from this is today explained

8 (26m 24s):
And.