1 (1s):
It's officially getting dark at like 457 again. Thanks for nothing daylight savings time. Anyway, maybe the kids can't be outside past, you know for 4:30 anymore because no one can trust the darkness. Maybe they need something to do while they're inside all day. You want to get them away from the screens kiwi goes offering you the chance to try their first month for free to redeem the offer visit kiwi co.com explained. You know that election you keep hearing about the one that decides whether or not Donald Trump gets another four years and all those Democrats who want to run against him.

1 (43s):
Well, the good news is it's officially just one year away. Now, let's good news is that we still don't really have any idea who's running against Donald Trump on November 3rd, 2020. We have no idea. Before I asked our Goshen at Vox to explain what we do know about the Democratic field. We took a moment to remember all those who have passed out of the race.

2 (1m 16s):
Eric's wall. Well was the first to drop out. He's the congressman from California who's probably best known for being on the house intelligence and Judiciary committee's that have done a lot of the investigations into Trump, but he also saw very early on that. He was not going to be president. It's time to pass the torch to a new generation of

1 (1m 34s):
Americans. Okay, who came after

2 (1m 36s):
Eric and there was Mike Gravel who was the very very old man from Alaska former senator from

1 (1m 44s):
Alaska I don't remember this one did he make a

2 (1m 46s):
debate? He did not make a debate his candidacy was actually propped up by a bunch of

1 (1m 50s):
teenagers. We joke that our goal is to make Bernie Sanders look like look boring and moderate and

2 (1m 56s):
young. He didn't make it on the debate stage, but his

1 (1m 60s):
presence was felt but we wish them all the best who came

2 (2m 3s):
after that. Then there was John Hickenlooper haken Looper Colorado. He really famously said he would never run for Senate or maybe he didn't say he'd never run for it. But he really like shit on being a senator. You said it would be meaningful but I hate it and now he's running for Senate in

1 (2m 18s):
Colorado. Hmm. That makes sense.

2 (2m 20s):
Yeah, he's a really good chance of winning. Okay, and then Jay Inslee

1 (2m 24s):
Inslee the environment

2 (2m 26s):
he kind of became like the patron saint of climate change the Democratic party. The time is up. Our house is on fire. We have to stop using coal in 10 years and when you're not president to do it or won't get done.

1 (2m 39s):
He's got a cabinet position for

2 (2m 40s):
sure. Oh, yeah. Definitely. She's well. Yeah, we will see.

1 (2m 44s):
See? Okay. What is he gonna do next? We

2 (2m 46s):
know she is running for re-election as

1 (2m 48s):
Governor. Perfect. So there's a nice consolation prize. Yeah after Inslee. I know he wasn't the last

2 (2m 53s):
one. He was not Seth

1 (2m 54s):
Moulton Seth. Yeah. Yeah kinda know which one was he again?

2 (3m 0s):
Seth Moulton is one of this kind of like Centrist Democrats house representative from Massachusetts. And yeah, he was vocal in his opposition to Nancy Pelosi. He lost that fight obviously and also lost the race for the presidency.

1 (3m 15s):
When do we get to de Blasio? We're not there

2 (3m 17s):
yet. Then we have Kirsten gillibrand. Oh, no IP gillibrand. Yeah, and it was kind of surprising that she didn't make a bigger Splash in the race, but she is really well known for her work around the me to movement in the Senate if our party is going to punish women who stand up for other women than we are absolutely going in the wrong direction. She couldn't really make a mark on the presidential Trail so she dropped

1 (3m 43s):
Out ruff.

2 (3m 45s):
Now we're at Mayor Bill de Blasio.

1 (3m 46s):
Donald Trump is playing a big con on America. I call him. Khandaan. What happened? Have you could make the money I read about that one.

2 (3m 53s):
Yeah, he couldn't make the money. He also just wasn't pulling very well and the narrative around him with his that everybody didn't like him. So there's a poll about a month ago Quinnipiac poll that showed 76 percent of New York voters 73% of New York Democrats say you should run. So what should the rest of the country to

1 (4m 9s):
think when so many of your fellow New Yorkers are saying don't

2 (4m 11s):
run and then comes Tim Ryan him Ryan. Congressman Tim Ryan Congressman Tim Ryan made it to some debates made it to some debates kind of a moderate flavor. Yes moderate flavor. Very feisty against medicare-for-all likes to kind of go after Warren and Sanders. He also was the person who tried to oust Nancy Pelosi and ran for speaker also failed at that also failed at the presidential

1 (4m 36s):
thing and finally on Friday our boy bet. Oh,

2 (4m 40s):
yeah better dropped out on

1 (4m 41s):
Friday and those 38 Electoral College votes in, Texas. Are now in play and I can win them. That is how we defeat Donald Trump in November of 2020 and how we bring this divided country together again in January of twenty Twenty-One what happened?

2 (4m 56s):
He just couldn't raise the same amount of money and he couldn't pull as well as everyone else and it just ended

1 (5m 2s):
for him. Will he run for the senate in Texas? Like everyone wants him to he has said so many times he is not going to run for the Senate. It was just less than a year ago that he wanted to be

2 (5m 11s):
there. That is true. But they're also a lot of other candidates in the race

1 (5m 14s):
Fair. Tar thank you for going through that with me ip to all of those candidates. The great news is they're still alive. Who does that leave in the race still like a whole lot of people right?

2 (5m 25s):
There are 17 candidates

1 (5m 27s):
70 all those people are out and they're 17 left. There are

2 (5m 30s):
17 candidates

1 (5m 31s):
left. Okay. Well, let me just pull up a list here so I don't get it wrong. Let's see we've got Bennett Williamson Yang Biden Booker Bullock Buddha judge Castro Delaney gabbard Harris Klobuchar. Messam Sanders Steyr Warren. Is that all of them? So I get all them

2 (5m 59s):
you forgot jessa's Tech

1 (6m 0s):
who didn't forget Joe

2 (6m 1s):
sestak. He just walked across the state of New Hampshire.

1 (6m 6s):
That's why we forgot a because he was walking

2 (6m 8s):
great move power move.

1 (6m 10s):
All right, 17 people who are the front-runners same old same old.

2 (6m 14s):
I think it's fair to say at this point that three candidates have consistently been pulling at the top and that's Vice President. Joe Biden Senator Elizabeth Warren and Senator Bernie Sanders. How

1 (6m 24s):
is this Ukraine drama affected the candidacy of Joe Biden has it. Can we see anything

2 (6m 28s):
discernible? I wouldn't say that I've seen anything particularly notable in the National polls. He's still pulling ahead of everybody else. He's still doing well and head-to-head polls against Trump, but there are still some more. Signs like we saw a recent poll in the state of Iowa. Obviously the first race very important for candidates to prove that they are viable candidates and he came in fourth their fourth fourth

1 (6m 52s):
Fourth to Warren Sanders and Pete Budaj. Wow. I hear his campaign coffers are much lower than they should be

2 (6m 59s):
too. That is something that is noteworthy is that he has had to go to these fundraisers and kind of explain why people shouldn't worry about this. And of course that is something that that's different than other candidates that you have to tell your donors. Hey, don't worry about this. I'm still electable the Scandal won't just try my candidacy. Just keep giving me money. This was in the news recently because his campaign is opening the doors to having super Pacs and that's something that we've seen a lot of democratic candidates really bulk

1 (7m 31s):
at don't want billionaires and wealthy people contribute that I doing out of the goodness of their heart. They want something and that One of the great problems in American society Bernard house, Senator Sanders doing post heart

2 (7m 46s):
attack. So in the last three months, he raised twenty five point three million dollars with more than a million donors. So he reached that record faster than everybody else. I mean Warren was a close second. She raked in twenty four point six million dollars, but noticeably Biden was far behind that. He raised 10 million less than them in the

1 (8m 7s):
third quarter. Hmm Plus Bernie got that AOC

2 (8m 11s):
endorsement we right now have one of the best. Haddock presidential primary fields in a generation and much of that is thanks to the work that Bernie Sanders has done in his entire life.

1 (8m 30s):
So what effect has that endorsement had in his campaign anything?

2 (8m 33s):
It shows that the progressive wing of the party and the most famous face of the Progressive Movement is still behind Bernie Sanders. There's been this whole debate about whether Bernie still be the face of Of the Progressive Movement you have someone like Elizabeth Warren who has the credibility among progressives has a very Progressive track record and policy platform, but still people like AOC people like ilhan Omar people like Rashida Talib are going for Bernie Sanders and that does strengthen his Appeal on the

1 (9m 6s):
left. But Elizabeth Warren doesn't seem to be hurting as a

2 (9m 10s):
result. Elizabeth Warren has just consistently been going up in the polls. She kind of just sits. In that tied for first second place in the polls consistently and that's a huge change for her from when she first got in.

1 (9m 25s):
What about everyone else? What are the other 14 candidates doing anything interesting?

2 (9m 30s):
I think there are definitely candidates that people expected to be doing better than they're doing can it's like Kamala Harris who last week her campaign had to announce that they had to make budget cuts. She was perceived as someone who could be the front-runner. And the nominee for the Democratic party and now there are questions around whether or not that's going to be possible and then their candidates like Pete Buddha judge who had this kind of early rise when he announced his candidacy had this like huge media cycle was just everywhere. You couldn't open a newspaper on a website without seeing articles about Pete Buddha judge and then he kind of had a slump where he wasn't in the headlines as much and he wasn't kind of registering as much support.

2 (10m 12s):
And now we've kind of seen him come back especially in early States like Where he is having a significant showing?

1 (10m 20s):
Okay, so it's a long road ahead a whole year, but we do start to get into primary season in just a few months is that when will actually find out who this candidate will

2 (10m 31s):
be so in February the Iowa caucuses will happen and then will very quickly go into New Hampshire and Nevada and South Carolina and the super Tuesday States and at that point we will have a better idea of who is going to be able to rack up enough delegates to Be the nominee in the Democratic primary at this point the polls are very much. So just a snapshot in time of now and if you talk to any pollster who's tracking this there are a lot of undecided voters and that's typical going into election day people decide in the final weeks. So we're still kind of months away from when voters really are coming down to the nitty-gritty of who they're going to vote for that said we might find out a little bit earlier next year who's going to The nominee because States like California are much earlier in the calendar.

2 (11m 22s):
So that's a lot of delegates that are going to be decided a lot earlier and that could really make or break can the Seas for people. If you look back at past elections in 2008, for example, Hillary Clinton was leading the Democratic primary at this point and Barack Obama obviously was the candidate Rudy Giuliani was leading again. He was not ever the nominee.

1 (11m 49s):
But when we finally know I mean when will all the candidates come out and I don't know Elizabeth Warren's husband like plays with balloons or something it at the Democratic National

2 (11m 58s):
Convention, July July July of 2020

1 (12m 2s):
yoosh. Yeah. Can't wait can't wait. After the break as reclined Ponder's what these Democrats need to do to beat Donald Trump. This is today explained. About a week ago at this point in the show. You might have heard me talk to my young friend Desmond kiwi coated a explained expert builder of crates and manager of Kiko projects. He mentioned that he wouldn't be building a kiwi Co costume crate for Halloween because he himself had been inspired maybe from Kimiko maybe not who knows we're not going to do an investigative piece about it, but he was inspired to build his own costume and that costume.

1 (12m 52s):
Would be a today explained costume. He was gonna be today explained for Halloween. Maybe you were wondering if that actually happened turns out it did I posted the evidence on the Instagram on the Twitter. You can check it out. I'm a traumas firm truly incredible work from Desmond and Desmond's been doing incredible work with the key Vico crates and who knows they're meant to inspire interest in learning in science technology engineering art and math and in the case of Desmond, man. He's on his way. Thanks for all you do Desmond. Thanks to Kiwi Co you can learn more about them at cubicle.com / explain where you can try them out for your first month

2 (13m 30s):
free.

1 (13m 37s):
Ezra we spent the first half of the show talking about the Democrats and where they stand right now one year away from the election and I just wonder where does Donald Trump stand right now with the American people? What are his approval ratings? What's extraordinary is Donald Trump stands exactly where he has stood more or less for the entire time of his presidency. We have never had a president in the post-world War II period who has been as stable and as non-volatile in the approval ratings his lowest I think is around 37 Sizes around 44 45 so, you know, he's in to the upper range, but he's been there for quite a while and I think the big note there is we've had a lot of stories happening recently, right and Ukraine impeachment bug Dottie and even as those filter into the ratings nothing's happening which is to say people have decided if they like Donald Trump or not and nothing that they are learning or have learned over the past couple of years seems to have changed that underlying structure of opinion in any real way.

1 (14m 36s):
Way I can imagine the people who support Donald Trump or unwavering because things like the Mauler probe and Ukraine and send her back and even you know, good people on both sides don't really get in the way of his appointing Supreme Court Justices, which he's done or tax cuts for the rich which he's done. But what about other stuff like the wall? I mean, he hasn't accomplished that in over two years of his presidency. Does that Affect him in some way polling is always hard to get to the heart of what people really think right. We only have this number and it is an imperfect summation of people's use but I suspect that on something like the wall the way Donald Trump's supporters understand that is not the Donald Trump is not built the wall, but that the lamestream media the failing New York Times the do nothing Democrats have stopped Donald Trump from building the wall.

1 (15m 31s):
And there he is out there fighting on their behalf. Trying to get the wall built and he's at war with deep State and the swamp and everyone else. I mean Donald Trump, I think typically does not get blamed for a lot of what he does. It's why I think one of the few things it did appear to hurt him was the house Republican health care bill because that was something we're Donald Trump during the campaign had promised. He would not cut Medicaid. He promised you would give everyone better health insurance and then he signed on to this bill. He signed on he supported this bill written by Paul Ryan that would have taken health insurance away from tens of millions of people that would not have been better for people that would not have protected pre-existing conditions. That would have cut Medicaid. Dramatically, so that was a moment where the ability to say. Donald Trump is being stopped by others.

1 (16m 13s):
And that is why he is not doing what he promised evaporated and you had to say oh Donald Trump is actually just betraying his promise and not seem to have an effect. It's why when you talk to Democrats, they want to run against Donald Trump's Embrace of more traditional Republican policies on health care and the economy and tax cuts and other things they don't so much want to run against the craziness of the Trump show the tweets The Eccentric Behavior. Because to them the people who don't like him for those reasons, I already don't like him the place where you can find new allies and new votes are in the people who there's a dissonance between what they wanted Donald Trump to do and what he has been doing and it's in Donald Trump's Embrace of the traditional conservative agenda that you can begin to open up that wedge.

1 (16m 55s):
Is it unusual for a president to have such steady approval ratings or did Obama have you know a 30-40 percent margin that he just could never lose no matter what? DET it is unusual and their cover reasons is unusual. So one is that Obama for instance had much bigger swings around his early honeymoon period where it very high approval ratings, which Donald Trump never had and there's some bigger swings around things like killing Osama Bin Laden, but it is also true that most of the time Obama was in a fairly narrow band. So if you looked at the course of his presidency, you would see a larger potential variation, but if you looked at any given month, you would not see a huge difference from where Donald Trump is Obama was somewhat more popular than Trump and his somewhat more popular and Trump amidst a much worse economy, which suggests to me that Trump is underperforming his potential approval ratings quite dramatically.

1 (17m 45s):
The thing I would say about the ultimate approval ratings in the big picture is that he is in a condition right now where he should be quite strong. He has a pretty good economy unemployment is quite low historically we have had steady job growth. We've had steady GDP growth we've had even in the last year to reasonable wage growth so that Plus the fact that we are not currently embroiled in a huge new War. I think one of the good things I will say about Donald Trump as he did not take the advice of many of in his administration and try to go to war with Iran you could imagine a president in these conditions at 55% not 70% given the structure partisan polarization, but sure 55 the fact that he's at 42 speaks to the effect that his own unusual behavior.

1 (18m 31s):
His tweeting his fights his just eccentricities his Recklessness it speaks to the fact that he's not Teflon that that has imposed a cost to penalty on his approval ratings. And the thing I was thinking about Donald Trump is that he did not win in 2016 by much. He did not win the popular vote at all. And even in Pennsylvania, you would have had to change about 40,000 votes for Donald Trump to lose to and so it was such a close election and the demographic Trends are sufficiently in democrats favor the Trump to get reluctant to 2020 he To match his performance in 2016. He needs to do better than it and there is no evidence in his polling that he has expanded his base a thing.

1 (19m 15s):
I tend to think about from time to time is that people exist in this country who voted for Barack Obama and then several years later voted for Donald Trump, which I guess often amazes people outside of this country. How do the Democrats when those particular voters back? So there's a huge amount of research now and attention on this quite small percentage of Voters. Those who switched from Obama to Trump and particularly in Zombies midwest states my read of that research overall suggest that in general. These were voters who were reasonably high and what social scientists call racial resentment and you might say well, how could they elect Barack Obama then and the answer is that feeling away about a group of people doesn't always drive how you feel about one person Obama did a lot of work to calm white anxieties to sort of appear to people as somebody who was operating outside of some traditional enmities.

1 (20m 6s):
I could kind of feel like you're getting past some of that when Hillary Clinton then ran a much more explicit campaign arguing, you know in favor of black lives matter talking about systemic racism and systemic racism on the campaign Trail those voters who are hiring racial resentment and have more intensely negative views about immigration went over to Donald Trump. I do not know how winnable they are. If you talk to a Bernie Sanders or an Elizabeth Warren, what they will tell you is that those voters were upset by Washington support for we trade Deals. They weren't helped Enough by Democratic policies over the past 10 years and a more unvarnished form of economic populism of win them back. You talked to Joe Biden, but he won't quite tell you but I think what is believed to be true.

1 (20m 48s):
There is Uncle Joe is a sort of older white guy comforting figure these folks believe he's on their side, like maybe the move over to him. I think that it is a mistake for Democrats to think about this all in terms of winning the last war they will probably get a cut some of these people back and by running a different campaign and running. Popular candidate than Hillary Clinton they can get some of them back but they also would have won the election if African-American turnout had been at the levels that was under Barack Obama. That's probably very hard to reconstitute but it's not necessarily impossible parties really come back from a defeat in the way you expect them to so after 2004 there was this huge belief. The Democrats had lost white Evangelical Heartland voters and you know, maybe they become to open to gay marriage or they were too socially liberal and you know, John Kerry I was in a feet, you know, french-speaking windsurfing, etc.

1 (21m 40s):
Etc. And there was this whole discourse in Democratic party about becoming more culturally conservative and economically populist. And then who actually wins. It's an African American guy with a middle name Hussein from Chicago, right? Like that was not anywhere in the theory, but that's what they did. So I suspect that if Democrats win in 2020, it will not be because they managed to sort of reverse engineer Donald Trump's Victory, but that they nominated Candidate who in being themselves and exciting interesting unique political force created their own political Dynamics. The Donald Trump had to respond to and was not quite able to and what do you think that Dynamic should be?

1 (22m 24s):
I don't know. I I think that what's really important is that Democrats do not just run as anti-trump. I think that the Democrats need to have a vision and the theory and an inspirational charge of their own and if they don't have that that creates a lot of space for Trump to dominate the conversation. I think the biggest mistake Democrats could make would be to be constantly reactive to whatever grenade Donald Trump is logged on Twitter that morning. I mean if you look in 2008, I would not That was Brock Obama ran on was an extraordinarily ambitious policy. Agenda was ambitious in the way. The presidential engines are ambitious, but he himself represented something in politics.

1 (23m 9s):
It excited people. He ran on a theory of how politics could be how could look how we could relate to each other how we could fix it and that generated a momentum that really reshaped American politics for eight years, and I think that what Democrats are going to need to do is to not just sit around clapping back on Donald Trump, but have Something that in its ambition in its intensity in its controversy sets the conversation on their terms. One of the only times Donald Trump is actually reactive to Democrats is when he is arguing against their socialism. It's one of the only times he responds and so the ways in which I think particularly Warren and Sanders are able to use big ambitious policies to set the agenda such it's at least Conversation happening on their terms.

1 (24m 1s):
I think that's powerful. I think some of the other candidates are able to do it in some other ways sometimes but certainly there are the two who have been able to set the terms of democratic debate and I think as a kind of meta level of the campaign being able to set the terms of the debate is a genuinely important qualification for the Democrat in 2020. Ezra Klein is the host of impeachment explained a brand new weekly podcast from Vox. It drops every weekend and you can find it in your favorite podcast app right.

2 (24m 34s):
Now today explained is proudly putting on our first

1 (24m 38s):
live show ever this week and we're doing it in Toronto Canada. We're going to talk about the huge year of winds and some disappointing losses. Also that the country has had I'll be joined on stage by some really sharp

2 (24m 49s):
Canadians including a dude. I used to watch on the TV Growing Up George. Stroumboulopoulos the

1 (24m 55s):
shows this Saturday and you can find tickets at podcast started Vox mania.com / events today explained is produced in association with Stitcher and we are part of the VOX media podcast Network. I'm Sean Rama's firm Irene. Noguchi is our executive producer Bridget McCarthy. I'm gonna al-saadi Halima Shaw and no MM hassenfeld make the show. No, I'm also makes music The Mysterious brake master cylinder makes even more music. Olivia Eckstrom has been checking facts and Jared Paul has been engineered. Veneering for a fume Shapiro this week more tomorrow ciao for now.

1 (25m 41s):
Thanks to the Fine people at kiwi go for supporting the show today. If I'm being completely honest. I have never met the people at kiwi Co but they have great taste. I just recently found out that one of our listeners got their dad Akiko subscription or something like that. He's really enjoying the projects. They're great for kids of all ages and maybe even dad's of all ages mom's of all ages people of all ages check them out for free at cubicle.com explained.