2 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from who we are. It's a Chronicle of racism in America. It's also a new podcast by Ben & Jerry's it's based on ACLU Deputy legal director, Jeffrey Robinson's acclaimed presentation of the same name who we are breaks down the origins and ongoing impact of white supremacy on our elections Healthcare the economy and much more new episodes come out Tuesday's listen And subscribe to who we are wherever you listen And subscribe. Months ago we brought you an episode titled Justice for Brianna Taylor Tessa Duvall a reporter at The Courier Journal in Louisville explained what we knew at that point in June about a police shooting that killed an unarmed black woman in her own apartment.

2 (52s):
A lot of questions were unanswered at the time but Tessa joined us again this morning because we had some big developments this week. We got an answer on Wednesday the Jefferson County grand jury. Charges as follows out of the three officers who fired their weapons at Brianna Taylor's apartment back in March only one of them has been indicted and that was former Louisville detective Brett hankinson count one wanton endangerment in the first degree. It's a Class D Felony that can carry between one and five years in prison count to wanton endangerment in the first degree, but as the judge was reading the counts counts.

2 (1m 34s):
At three wanton endangerment in the first degree. She was saying the initials of the residents who were endangered by these shots. He wanted Lee shot a gun into the apartment occupied by initials c d e and none of those initials. We noticed pretty quickly were BT for Brianna Taylor occupied by initials C and or KW for Kenny Walker occupied by initials ZF. We figured out that while there were these three counts of wanton endangerment. They weren't actually for endangering Brianna. They were four shots that endangered her neighbors.

2 (2m 18s):
So the grand jury didn't find any wrongdoing with how the police approached Brianna Taylor and her boyfriend, but they did find that the police recklessly endangered the lives of Briana. Taylor's neighbors. Yes. Yes, so when attorney general Daniel Cameron who is in his first term in office spoke about this, he explained that our investigation show and the grand jury agreed Mattingly and Cosgrove were justified in the return of deadly fire after having been fired upon by Kenneth Walker that's self-defense response didn't play out with Brett Hankerson to the same degree.

2 (3m 4s):
Because he was not firing from that doorway detective tankenson fired his weapon from a outside sliding glass door and through a bedroom window. That's why he was fired from the police department over the summer and that's why he's facing these reckless endangerment charges some bullets travel through apartment for and into apartment three neighboring apartment behind her three residents of apartment 3. We're at home. Including a male a pregnant female and a child. So that's why he's facing charges and the other two officers aren't Just so I can make sure I had this clear the Attorney General said that this one officer detective hankinson who was further away.

2 (3m 57s):
He wasn't firing in self-defense, but the other two officers were essentially yes. He said that according to Kentucky law use of force by Mattingly and Cosgrove was justified to protect themselves because these officers were in his opinion acting in self-defense that Charges shouldn't apply here. This justification bars us from pursuing criminal charges in Miss Brianna. Taylor's death. How many shots did the cops fire in total? Do we know we knew that Brett hankinson was accused of firing 10 Rounds blindly from outside the apartment and attorney general Daniel Cameron said that he fired 10 times in total.

2 (4m 41s):
So that's six from Mattingly 10 from Hank you said and then we also learned that Detective. So fired a total of 16 times, so more than 30 shots in total from these three officers were fired into Brianna Taylor's apartment with several of them going into apartment next to hers and an apartment upstairs and how many shots were fired by Brianna. Taylor's boyfriend Kenneth Walker to set off this firefight Kenneth Walker fired one shot. Yeah. The last time we spoke we spent a lot of time focused on the no-knock warrant that had been issued to these police officers have we learned anything more there?

2 (5m 23s):
So we know from court records that police sought and were given a warrant with a no-knock claws on it Sergeant Mattingly based on the testimony that we heard you'd given to investigators. He says that they are saying police come to the door, please. Search

1 (5m 43s):
warrant banged on the door. No response banged on it again. No response at that point. We started announcing herself. Please. Please come to the door. Please give a search

2 (5m 53s):
warrant based on Kenneth Walker statements that he gave to police. He said they heard a knocking they heard this pounding, but they had no idea who it was from inside the

1 (6m 3s):
apartment. I was loud. Boom at the door first thing. She says, who is it? No response. So we like what the heck we both get up start putting Close now the knock at the door. She's like, who is it loud at the top of her world? No

2 (6m 18s):
response that sets up a discrepancy, you know dead Kenneth Walker know he was firing at police when this all began and triggered this series of events. Daniel Cameron said definitively that evidence shows that officers both knocked and announced their presence at the apartment. He reached that conclusion based on. On statements made that flight officers and one neighbor in other words. The war was not served as a no-knock warrant that has not sat. Well with a lot of people Taylor's family attorney.

2 (6m 60s):
Ben Crump says that's not true. Everybody there said they never heard the police identify themselves journalists from local to National have, you know been all over that? My complex talking to neighbors and the neighbors are saying we didn't hear anything. We didn't know it was police. They even talked to neighbors who said well, we called the police when we heard the shooting. We didn't know the shooting was the police and so, you know attorneys for Brianna's family and journalists are confused as to why one neighbor and his statements carry more weight than You know 10 plus other neighbors who did not hear police.

2 (7m 47s):
How does this verdict gel with the settlement that Brianna Taylor's family received. I think last week what we heard from the attorney general in the grand jury on Wednesday is the result of a criminal investigation but last week we saw Brianna Taylor's family and attorneys announced alongside city leaders that they had resolved a civil lawsuit for the wrongful death of We got to tailor that was huge. I mean, it was a 12 million-dollar settlement which is the largest police payout in lousiville history, but it's also one of the largest for a police shooting in the nation, but you know protesters look at this 12 million dollar settlement and they say one her family deserves every single cent of that and more and people say why is the city paying twelve million dollars if those officers didn't It do anything wrong.

2 (8m 45s):
And of course protesters have been calling for criminal charges against these officers in the death of Brianna Taylor for months. Now does this indictment mean that will never happen there is still a federal investigation surrounding Brianna Taylor's death and the FBI is looking into how the warrant was obtained. What happened that night. They're looking for civil rights violations. So it's not over yet, even though obviously like you said

1 (9m 13s):
I

2 (9m 13s):
had protesters are really unhappy about this, you know, the rallying cry the commentary from celebrities the t-shirts the memes the

1 (9m 22s):
slogan takahiro scored in double figures every game this postseason. He's been putting in work for young fellow, but it also be a great day to arrest the cops and murder Brianna Taylor called an arrest the cops who killed Rihanna's healer. I'm Daniel Cameron made it very clear that that's not going to happen. That's not you know wanton endangerment was the charge they're going to go with for one officer. What was the reaction in Louisville after this verdict came down on on Wednesday. There's a lot of grief. There are people

2 (9m 53s):
who are mourning. There are also people who are mad as

1 (9m 57s):
hell.

2 (10m 2s):
Who feel like this is just another example of police getting away with killing a black person. And so we did see

1 (10m 12s):
protests. The last couple of night. The city is under a curfew. The National Guard is here and on Wednesday night two officers.

2 (10m 29s):
Were shot while out working the protest

1 (10m 32s):
I'm Robert shutter chief of police Louisville Metro Police Department at about 8:30 tonight. Our officers were called to the area of Brooklyn College shots rang out and two of our officers were shot. Both officers are currently undergoing treatment and University Hospital. One is in alert and stable. The other officer is currently undergoing surgery and stable. No thankfully their

2 (10m 54s):
injuries were not life-threatening and you know, they're both expected to recover but it's really like the city is undergoing this Collective trauma. How is Brianna Taylor's family responded. I spoke to Rihanna Taylor's family attorneys yesterday who recounted Moment that Tamika Palmer learned that no one was being charged for her daughter's death and both attorneys. I spoke to just described it as her just you know immediately just breaking down just falling apart that you know, she she couldn't speak.

2 (11m 44s):
Now the attorneys have consistently been raising the point of how can you endanger the neighbors but not in danger Brianna. That's what they can't make sense out of and that's what they're they're mad about. This is absolutely not what Briana Taylor's family wanted to hear. They were very clear from the get-go that they wanted officers held criminally responsible for Brianna Taylor's death and they didn't get that.

2 (12m 27s):
More in a minute. I'm Shawn Rama's Ferrum. It's today explained. as I mentioned at the top of the show support for this particular Friday of today explained comes from who we are a new podcast from Ben & Jerry's based on ACLU legal deputy director, Jeffrey Robinson's acclaimed presentation of the same name who we are as a Chronicle of racism in America that de sex the systems that have allowed white supremacy to thrive for 400 years and counting each week Robinson and His PB Body, award-winning friend and journalist Carvel Wallace breakdown the past and ongoing impact of slavery and white supremacy on some of the most pressing issues of our time voter suppression the racial wealth Gap Health Care much more new episodes of who we are are on Tuesdays and you can listen And subscribe right now on Stitcher on Apple podcasts on Spotify on whatever your favorite podcast app, Maybe.

2 (14m 1s):
Savio was Phineas you report on Race here at vaux. Tummy, you know the justice for Brianna Taylor movement. What exactly did that movement mean by Justice? What do people want to see? Yeah, I think what's been fascinating about the movement for Brianna Taylor's life in the movement for justice for Brianna Taylor over the past couple months is that it met very different things to different people. So there are some people who are saying The cops who killed Brianna Taylor right for them. Just this was seeing Brett hankinson being taken away in handcuffs. I mean seeing the other two officers who are also fired their guns that night be taken away in handcuffs, but then there were some people who were like justice doesn't mean seeking retribution and seeking punishment within the current system as it stands.

2 (14m 49s):
So people were saying actually we need to stop centering Brianna Taylor in this and we actually need to see how this is just part of a bigger movement to To say there's so much more work to be done in the criminal justice system, whether that's reforming it defunding the police or just abolishing the system altogether. So it ran the gamut from actually put these cops in handcuffs to get rid of cops all together, but was anyone out there clamoring for a you know, wanton endangerment charge for just one of the police officers absolutely not I don't think that anyone got what they were looking for in the situation, but I think that maybe some people were more shocked than others, right?

2 (15m 33s):
So the people who were actually still looking for the system to Produce some kind of Justice were shocked and Confused. Where's the people who are already divested from it. We're like this is what we expected. So for example, since March 13th, according to the Washington post's police tracker more than 80 black people have been killed at the hands of police and a study from the mapping police violence database found that 99% of killings by police between the years of 2013 and 2019 have even resulted in officers being charged with a crime so This happens a lot and it's pretty rare for police officers to be charged as their been Justice.

2 (16m 14s):
In other cases that have gotten a lot of attention to Summer like George Floyd or Jacob lake or Richard Brooks. Yeah, I'd say in the case of George Floyd wear a white officer for Minneapolis basically kneeled on his neck. He got charged with third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter and in the cases of Richard Brooks and Jacob Lake. Are also shot by police this summer. We don't have any decisions yet, but historically speaking. I don't know that it would make a lot of sense for protesters to look forward to trust us in those cases either where has the discussion in this country about abolishing the police or defunding the police left off.

2 (16m 59s):
I mean there were a lot of initial promises and pledges and and reforms after the death of George Floyd, but now I mean the Most conspicuous conversation that seems to be happening around it is the president trying to say Joe Biden wants to abolish the police and Joe Biden saying actually no, I don't I'd say in the beginning. We saw a lot of attention on the black lives matter Movement. We saw public opinion shifts, right? So many Americans are now saying that they believe that racism is a problem in America. They believe that funds should be taken away from police and given to other essential. Any services, like social workers mental health care workers when we're starting to look at what's happening at individual police departments.

2 (17m 45s):
We aren't seeing much movement on the defund front. So for example in Louisville where Brianna Taylor was killed activists who were calling for the defunding of police. They have not seen anyone. So on that front we have seen like the Louisville Metro Council banned no-knock warrants, and we also saw the Aki attorney general say that he's going to launch a task force following this decision to basically investigate the way that warrants are applied for and of the way in which they're executed and that's something that people are saying is just is not enough. We also saw with the 12 million dollar settlement that Louisville announced before the grand jury's decision a list of police reforms that they wanted to begin to put into action and those include Giving police officers credits for living in low-income neighborhoods or encouraging police officers to do community service, but those are just so far from the funding that activists are calling for an outside Kentucky outside Louisville an outside Louisville, I'd say the movement is just about the same right?

2 (18m 57s):
We've seen like some school districts for example in Portland and their contracts with police departments. We've seen like in Rochester the mayor Following the killing of Daniel Pruder the release of that video say that she failed the city and she's going to start an effort to basically reallocate funding to social workers who can basically help police officers who get calls related to Mental Health New York State's Attorney General is now making a decision about when to publicly Release Body camera footage in the case of police involved. Yes. Daniel prude died on March 23rd, but footage of his When was it released until months later?

2 (19m 40s):
So it sounds like what we ended up with is a patchwork of police reforms across the country. We didn't have a sort of National Police reform re-imagination. We just had sort of cities that have issues with police violence against black people second-guessing and reconsidering their policies. Is that fair that's definitely fair to say, especially when we look at you mentioned Joe Biden before his plan is to actually write increased funding to police because he believes that you know, one of the strongest Avenues to fixing policing is community policing right police being out on the streets having positive interactions with civilians, but the movement is definitely far from over because I think this year we just started just saying things that have never been said so casually in public right this year.

2 (20m 36s):
We see people say Systemic racism exists. We see people saying that we need to rethink policing and I think that the fact that these terms these phrases are just entering people's vocabulary means that this is only a start Brianna. Tyler's death also shows us that black women especially don't receive justice under the American Criminal Justice System One of Brianna Taylor's attorneys. Ben crop from the very Beginnings basically highlighted the fact that Brianna Taylor's case got more attention because people saw the death of George Floyd and rallied around that and so her name basically jumped into popular discussions following the death of George Floyd.

2 (21m 30s):
I also think this moment to shows that the system is working the way that it was designed. No officers were indicted in her killing. Brett hankinson indictment was for the fact that he shot through the walls and the bullets went through Brianna Taylor's apartment and into her neighbor's apartment. So his indictment again just had nothing to do with the fact that Brianna Taylor was shot dead in her

1 (21m 54s):
apartment.

2 (22m 34s):
You can read fabiola's writing on Brianna Taylor's case at fox.com Tessa Duval has a newsletter dedicated to Brianna Taylor's case. You can find it over at The Courier journals website. You can also find a link to it over at today explained on Twitter. We are at today underscore explained. We go for the day one last reminder that support for the show today comes from who we are.

2 (23m 18s):
It's a new podcast from Ben & Jerry's it's a Chronicle of racism in America and it is out right now new episodes of the show drop on Tuesdays and you can listen And subscribe right here wherever you're listening to this right now.