2 (0s):
What can I say support for the show today comes from a new show from Marketplace called million bazillion in partnership with brains on it's a podcast for kids, but also their family it's all about money how it works how we use it where it comes from and how we could all get a little bit smarter about it. But in a fun way million bazillion helps dollars make more sense and you can find it and listen wherever you find your podcasts and listen

1 (46s):
My fellow

2 (46s):
Americans the let me introduce to you for the first time your next vice president United States

1 (54s):
Kamala Harris. Kamala floor is yours. Thank you, Joe. As I said Joe when you called me, I am incredibly honored by this responsibility and I'm ready to get to work. I'm ready to get to work

2 (1m 16s):
Kamala Devi Harris Kamala. That's a Hindi name as in she's half South Asian Tamil to be specific who can relate I can I'm half Tamil to at buddy. The hair is half is Jamaican her Indian mother and Jamaican father met in Berkeley, California in the 60s. Kamala was born a few years later in Oakland. You're probably at least a little familiar with her story from their Howard University law school back in California prosecutors, San Francisco Diego, California attorney general and then she becomes the first South Asian to serve in the US Senate and only the second black woman. And now she's the first ever black woman and the first South Asian woman to make it onto the presidential ticket of a major American political party.

2 (2m 6s):
The Civil Rights struggle

1 (2m 8s):
is nothing new to jail. It's why he got into public service. It's why he helped reauthorize the Voting Rights Act and restore unemployment discrimination and employment discrimination laws. And today he takes his place in the ongoing story of America's March toward equality and justice as only as the only As the only who has served alongside the first black president and has chosen the first black woman as his running mate

2 (2m 38s):
on today's show. We're going to talk about the significance of Biden's choice. And whether these two can take down President Donald Trump Fabio, licinia's you report on Race for Vox, there's gonna be a lot of focus on Kamala Harris has identity in the next few weeks. How did she identify herself

1 (2m 57s):
lately Kamala identified? As American but the way she identifies has definitely changed over time. So when she became the second black woman ever to be elected to the US Senate she proudly claimed that she was an African-American woman, but she also said that she was a South Asian American woman, but now I think over time as she has done more interviews as she announced her candidacy for the presidency. She basically just says I'm American

2 (3m 29s):
Of course, we'd like to believe that in 2020. No one would even care that she's a you know, half South Asian half black politician and that it wouldn't really make a difference because she is just an American but of course if 2020 has taught us anything that won't be the case. What are the challenges she's facing because of her identity.

1 (3m 49s):
So just within the last 24 hours people have already been debating whether common was black right or is she black enough? She has really played up this idea that She's a traditional black American like myself and so many others who count ourselves among the millions of black people who are descended from slaves, but she's not descended from slaves. She's a sinner from slave owners. We've seen this happen right when it comes to politicians with mixed ancestry with mixed Heritage, right? Just look at Barack Obama and the right has actually already launched a campaign basically saying that Kamala is not African-American and so there's one commentator Mark Levin who got a new show last night and said,

2 (4m 29s):
Kamala Harris is not an African-American. She is Indian and Jamaican Jamaica's part of the Caribbean India is Out there near China. I only point that out because if you dare raise that you're attacked, but the truth is she's not and so I just wanted to make that clear her ancestry does not go back to American slavery.

1 (4m 53s):
Also, he right completely ignore the fact that combo was born in the United States and that's already a question that people are asking and Googling what she born in the United

2 (4m 60s):
States like that one guy who was born in Kenya

1 (5m 3s):
exactly exactly. So birtherism is You think that's even happening this Kamala Harris

2 (5m 10s):
if they're already coming up with ways to say she was born somewhere else. Is this just going to be like the beginning of lots of disinformation about

1 (5m 16s):
her? Yeah, because black women have historically been cast as others. There's ample opportunity for people to craft these campaigns around calmly being this shadowy figure commonly being this other there's an expert that I interviewed. They said that black female politicians are more prone to disinformation attacks. Because of their status as black women and people being willing being more willing to believe falsehoods about them last night or Fox News. We saw another example of the kind of criticism that Kamala is going to face Tucker Carlson kept mispronouncing her name and someone corrected him and say, hey we should show comma more respect by actually pronouncing her name correctly, but soccer Coulson took offense to that

2 (6m 2s):
saying he took offense to pronouncing her name

1 (6m 4s):
correctly. He took offense to someone Hey, you're pronouncing her name incorrectly have a respect for somebody who's going to be on the National Ticket pronouncing. Her name right is actually forgot. It's kind of a so, I'm disrespecting her. Bye Miss pronouncing her name unintentionally So It Begins you're not allowed to criticize Kamala Harris or Kamala Harris or what happened? Because of Kamala Harris whatever. That's just another thing that combo is going to face right when people are trying to say hey you're talking about her in a way that's sexist or you're talking about her in a way that's racist. Folks on the right. We're already seeing them saying hey, she should be criticized. Right? She has a right to be criticized. No one is above criticism.

1 (6m 45s):
Especially someone who is the VP nominee for the Democratic party.

2 (6m 50s):
Of course President Trump has wasted no time calling her nasty woman and adjectives. He sometimes seems to reserved for women of color. She was extraordinarily

1 (6m 58s):
nasty to Kevin or judge judge cabin or then now just as Kevin. Oh, she was nasty to a level that was just A

2 (7m 8s):
horrible thing the way she was the way she

1 (7m 10s):
treated now just as Cavanaugh

2 (7m 14s):
what other stereotypes might she be facing as she enters this race in

1 (7m 18s):
Earnest definitely. So I think the main one that's already coming out is this age old stereotype that we call the sapphire the sapphire the sapphire. Yeah, that stereotype is given rise to what we call today the angry black woman stubborn overbearing characterizes. As loud and even emasculating during this very first debate. She challenge Joe Biden about his position on school busing, you know, there was a little girl in California who was part of the second class to integrate her public schools, and she was bust to school every day. And that little girl was me.

1 (7m 59s):
So I will tell you that on this subject. It cannot be an intellectual debate among Democrats. We have to take it. Seriously we have to act swiftly and people characterized for challenge of Joe. Biden has a vicious attack people said that she was fierce. However, when I for example looked at what Kamala said, I was just like this is a woman who is trying to say Hey Joe your stance on this as a black woman who descended Dated my public schools growing up your stance on this really hurt me. How does Kamala

2 (8m 32s):
Harris battle all of this sort of disinformation campaigns, you know assertions that she'll be Beyond criticism just because she's a black woman and a half South Asian woman at that that there will be these allegations that she's a sapphire and that she's like an angry black woman. What is what does she do when someone's so much of this stuff? Sounds just totally unfounded.

1 (8m 58s):
Yeah, I think calmly right what we've seen from her on the campaign Trail is that she's very direct and she will call people out directly and I think that's one of her strong suits is that she doesn't back down from speaking the truth and trying to correct misinformation. And so again she's going to need help is the problem. So I'm looking forward to see how the Biden campaign actually works to fight this misinformation and fiercely And Kamala Harris.

2 (9m 30s):
Well, at least you know her partner in crime here Vice President, Joe Biden has a way with words

1 (9m 36s):
exactly exactly.

2 (9m 39s):
What you all know, but most people don't know

1 (9m 42s):
unlike the African-American

2 (9m 44s):
Community with notable exceptions. But Latino Community is incredibly diverse Community with incredibly different attitudes about different

1 (9m 52s):
things. The Democrats are really going to be Joe Biden to talk less and really just stick to the script because when he gets to Casual that's one the blunders come out and yeah, we've seen bright people on his campaign. Right now Symone Sanders. Just having to say no. This is what he actually meant. But Joe Biden will have to say less but also right have a script where he's able to protect and defend Kamala Harris

2 (10m 27s):
after the break. I'll talk to Ezra Klein about what Kamala and Joe will need to do to defeat Donald. I'm Sean Rama's firm. It's today explained. Support for the show today comes from all birds and all birds like you and everyone, you know realizes that this has not been a conventional Summer by any means but you're probably still wearing shoes and you probably Care on some degree like how those shoes were made. You want to make sure they weren't made in a sweatshop that that people were paid a fair wage to make them.

2 (11m 9s):
Maybe you care that they weren't made in a way that totally harms the planet and all birds definitely cares. Of that they measure the carbon footprint of all of their products every pair of shoes socks underwear. They list it on the product itself the way you'd see nutritional information on a box of cereal all birds uses premium natural materials to make their shoes and works to offset carbon emissions to make their products carbon neutral. If you don't know your impact you can change it and all birds gets that they want to be part of a future where all companies measure and share their footprints. So you can make better choices about what you buy and with all birds.

2 (11m 49s):
You will feel confident knowing you're wearing a product that's doing right by your feet and the planet learn more about their sustainable practices and find your pair of shoes at all birds.com today. All

3 (12m 1s):
right.

2 (12m 7s):
This episode is brought to you by a vast a global leader in cybersecurity committed to making your life online a lot. Safer. Avast is trusted by more than 435 million users to keep their data safe and of devices protected from nasty malware and other viruses Avast has a whole Suite of tools to keep your identity protected and your online actions hidden from prying eyes no matter what part of your Digital Life you want to protect Avast has you covered a great place to get started is with a Premium security. It forts all online threats including ransomware virus has and spoofed websites built to steal your information or check out a vast secure line VPN, which encrypts your internet connection no matter what Wi-Fi network you're on if you use a lot of public networks that coffee shops or airports where your data is, especially vulnerable.

2 (12m 56s):
This is the tool for you. Avast also has services like a vast cleanup premium, which helps get rid of your cyber junk to make your computer as Snappy as it was when you first bought it. It they offer a ton of other products to help solve every online security problem. You could imagine don't worry about viruses phishing attacks ransomware hacking attempts and cyber crime. Again. Avast products are there to protect you learn more about Avast privacy security and performance products at a

3 (13m 23s):
vast.com.

2 (13m 33s):
As you climb you wrote about Joe picking calm love for vox.com today. Does it really matter? Who Joe picks? I mean apart from covid. Mike Pence has mostly seem like a cheerleader in a suit for four years does the Veep matter? It depends what you mean by matter. So definitely for governance the vice president matters if the president wants them to matter Mike Pence has mattered he is staffed the entire Trump Administration right the reason So much of the Trump Administration ends up following Coke brother policies is because Mike Pence is there putting people into the key positions Joe Biden mattered in the Obama administration because Barack Obama trusted him now other vice presidents have not mattered, right Lyndon Johnson famously didn't matter in John F.

2 (14m 15s):
Kennedy's Administration, but right there, you see the way they also can matter that's a big but sometimes the president dies or has to leave for some other reason or potentially even and there have been rumors of this simply declines for run for Or a second term right Joe Biden is 77. I believe there have been rumors that even if he wins. He might see himself as a transitional figure and declined to run again in which case his vice president would be The Heir Apparent. So yes in those two ways vice presidents matter tremendously for governance for who governs in the future the thing people often mean when they say do vice presidents matter is do they swing the election and the evidence there is overwhelmingly know they may matter a little bit in their home state.

2 (14m 56s):
And so I think it is safe to say that By news now going to win California. His odds are very very good in California. But beyond that there would not be recent to look at history and say that putting Kamala Harris on the ticket is going to substantially change the the votes Joe Biden does it doesn't get on the LBJ front on the there's rumors Biden might only do one term here front on the Biden 77 and maybe not at his best front. I wonder are you trying to say that he's potentially picking who he thinks could be the next president of the United States like the next next president of the United States. Yes, he knows that he has thought about that explicitly through the entire process.

2 (15m 41s):
Joe Biden has his faults, but he's actually been very clear hide on this strengths and weaknesses of Joe Biden and he understands that he himself is older. He does not represent directly much of the democratic party. Joe Biden's a white man and old white man. And in a party that loses white voters male voters and old voters. He is not as a liberal or as left in some ways as a parties become instead of not as left as the the younger generation of the party has become and when I say he thinks of himself as a transitional figure, I'm not putting words in his mouth. The the quote is I am a transitional candidate Joe Biden sees himself as a person who can beat Donald Trump and I think he believes he will do a good job as president.

2 (16m 27s):
I know he believes that that but Joe Biden understands that he will not carry this forward in the future. And also he himself has this incredibly intense Vivid experience of the way being chosen as vice president might make you put you in line to be the next president. He's run for president a number of times and has never done. Well, he did not come in first second third fourth in 2008, but after becoming Brock Obama's vice president, he became the front-runner when he did run in 2020. So Biden better than most people as a real sense that being named Vice. Leave all tuned to leadership of a party that maybe would not have made you its leader. Otherwise, it's pretty obvious seeming what she brings to him just by virtue of being this historic choice, but what about her politics and you know, ideology Kamala Harris in a way that is not often mentioned and is weirdly like violated and a lot of political commentary about her.

2 (17m 19s):
She is one of the most liberal members of the Senate mom. No matter how you track this. She is like in the five most liberal. It's like Elizabeth Warren Bernie Sanders. Kamala Harris and Cory Booker are the most liberal members of the Senate and yet people kind of Peg her as a moderate, huh? It's very weird on the New York Times called her moderate just yesterday. The thing is that Kamala Harris is not tend to go with the left on the list symbolic issues and she is a politician who came up in politics in a different era and so her record as a prosecutor was more mixed between its Progressive elements and it's more tough-on-crime elements that her record is a senator which is much more forthrightly.

2 (17m 58s):
As a presidential candidate what she tried to do was exist in between the left and moderate Lanes that's part of why the left doesn't trust her. They don't believe she would be with them in all circumstances and she probably wouldn't be but where she sees the country going and were her own politics tend to be going reflect a party that is changing. Joe. Biden is move left because the party is changing Kamala Harris has moved left because the party is changing and they both kind of reflect this way in which they want. To rhetorically appeal to a country that they don't think is all the way with our party is but they also want to be with our party is and they recognize that that is moved quite a bit over the past decade. So how does Biden Harris beat Trump pence in 2020?

2 (18m 43s):
I mean Trump Pence is going to be Trump Ensign 2022 the first remark summation, or if they win it'll it'll be for for that reason to people thought that last time too people keep saying that but Donald Trump was not the incumbent in. sixteen so he did not own the condition of the country and he does on the condition of the country right now when an incumbent is running for re-election as president practically during a national crisis. The first question in a lot of Voters Minds practically persuadable voters is do I like the condition of the country the single best thing Donald Trump could do to win re-election is do a good job managing coronavirus and the single most important thing he could do to lose re-election is to continue doing a terrible job of it.

2 (19m 26s):
So Joe Biden and Kamala Harris will be By to some degree if they beat him by keeping the focus on his failures. Donald Trump could beat them by either turning his failures into successes or somehow scaring Americans about what a Biden Harris presidency would mean I don't know if you caught this but Trump put an ad on Twitter or maybe retweeted a video with it, but I think it was an ad. It was the Trump War Room who put this out and it pasted Joe Biden's face onto a Trojan Horse And then it came the Trojan Horse movie chemic came into Troy and then out of the Trojan Horse came a ocl on Omar and Bernie Sanders, huh?

2 (20m 14s):
And it's potent. You see this a lot on Fox News this effort to try to like frame Joe Biden a somehow simultaneously to see Nile and sleepy to finish a sentence but also a puppet for like the Socialist Wing the Democratic party who's going to socialize the means of production. And it's not

3 (20m 34s):
working.

2 (20m 38s):
The thing that is helping Joe Biden right now. If you look at polling is it Donald Trump himself is extraordinarily mobilizing to democratic voters. Like they're very very excited about voting against him Joe Biden and we'll see but potentially Kamala Harris are not giving him the Grist he needs to scare enough of his base into voting for him, which is why he's so far down in the polls. Ezra Klein great to have you back on the show. I'm sure we'll be hearing more from you soon because I hear there's a convention next week. I hear that too for our sins. All right. Thanks Ezra. Thank you.

2 (21m 29s):
You better believe that this episode of today explained you just listen to came to you with support from the new Marketplace show called million bazillion in partnership with brains on have your kids been like. Hey Mom, how much money do you make Hey Dad. How much did the couch cost? Maybe you should be like, hey kid. Stop asking me questions and go listen to the podcast a million bazillion from Marketplace in partnership with brains on because it's all about the money million bazillion helping dollars make More sense. Listen And subscribe wherever you do those things to podcasts. Thank you.