0 (0s):
Will you accept the results of your election in November?

1 (5s):
I'm gonna win the election and I will accept that result. If

0 (9s):
You lose, will you accept that

1 (11s):
I'm gonna win the election and I will accept that result.

2 (14s):
It's midterms week people. The stakes are very high this year, in part because some Republican candidates have been cagey about whether they'll accept the results of the election. That includes Carrie Lake, who's running for governor of Arizona, and who you heard there artfully dodge a question about whether she'll accept a loss over the weekend. Someone mailed a package containing an unidentified white powder to Carrie Lake's campaign headquarters and the FBI is investigating in Response Lake, who is both admired and feared for her powers of Oratory. Managed to sum up both her specific situation and the next and final weeks of 2022.

1 (52s):
We're in dangerous times,

2 (54s):
We're in dangerous times. Coming up on today explained.

3 (1m 5s):
My name is Stacey Baringer. I am a state politics reporter at the Arizona Republic in Phoenix, and my life is covering the gubernatorial race.

2 (1m 14s):
Tell me about Carrie Lake.

3 (1m 16s):
Carrie Lake is 53 years old. She's a mother of two known here in Arizona for her career for 22 years as a television news anchor here in Phoenix on Fox 10.

4 (1m 30s):
You're watching the best Fox 10 News at nine,

1 (1m 34s):
And thanks for joining us tonight. We begin with a Fox 10 news alert. The body of a missing six year old girl has been found.

3 (1m 39s):
That's how people knew her. And then ultimately in March of 2021, she published a video saying that she didn't believe in the journalism that she was doing anymore, that it wasn't accurately capturing Arizonans and she publicly resigned her position.

1 (1m 57s):
Sadly, journalism has changed a lot since I first stepped into a newsroom. And I'll be honest, I don't like the direction it's going.

3 (2m 6s):
One of the things that makes Carrie Lake so unique is she has turned on her former profession and done it frankly very well in a way that really speaks to voters.

1 (2m 17s):
I found myself reading news copy that I didn't believe was fully truthful or only told part of the story, and I began to feel that I was contributing to the fear and division in this country by continuing on in this profession.

3 (2m 31s):
It's just one of the things that makes her such a fascinating candidate. Frankly.

2 (2m 35s):
Another thing that makes her fascinating is the fact that Carrie Lake was a registered Democrat once upon a time. She said in the past she voted for Barack Obama's presidency because of his promise to end the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and then something obviously changed. When did you all in Arizona start to see that?

3 (2m 55s):
Yeah, I mean, I think there is a perception out there that she has become conservative just in the campaign and I, I actually don't think that's true. If you look at her final few years at Fox 10, you know, she was making some comments that generated headlines themselves. You know, there was a big push in Arizona for public school funding and she made a claim that it was actually like this covert operation to legalize marijuana, which it was not. And

1 (3m 27s):
I made an incorrect conclusion in my tweet, and for that, I'm sorry.

3 (3m 30s):
I've talked to some of her former colleagues, you know, they all talk about this being a just truly genuine shift to Republican ideology.

5 (3m 40s):
Several of her friends we spoke to say she found Trump to be funny and defended his crassness. She began spreading internet conspiracy theories.

1 (3m 49s):
You can take the hydro hydroxychloroquine as a preventative,

5 (3m 53s):
And then she refused to acknowledge Biden as the winner of the 2020 election.

3 (3m 57s):
And then of course she resigns her job in March 20, 21. Three months later,

1 (4m 4s):
I'm Carrie Lake, I'm running for governor and Arizona, I'm asking for your support.

3 (4m 10s):
Announces she's running for governor of Arizona. She gets former president Donald Trump's endorsement, and it is undeniable that the two of them have a a sort of special charisma. He speaks about her in very laudatory language.

6 (4m 26s):
Carrie Lake, your next governor, she's an incredible woman, incredible person

3 (4m 32s):
Along the campaign trail. She has sort of had this say anything style that I think really a lot of people identify as something that Trump sort of champions.

1 (4m 44s):
I think it comes down, frankly to one sentence, we wanna replace the woke garbage with common sense. It's pretty simple.

2 (4m 52s):
Stacey, let me ask you about a strategy we saw in this midterm campaign, the Democrats Med in at least a dozen Republican primaries by giving their support in the form of ad dollars to the most outrageous far right candidates with the idea that those candidates would win primaries and then they would lose the general election. C Lake is outrageous. What was the Democrats strategy with her and this race in Arizona?

3 (5m 20s):
The g p primary here was four candidates, Carrie Lake and then a more establishment candidate. Karen Taylor Robson, she's a developer, a lobbyist, closely aligned with Governor Doug Ducey, sort of that more traditional wing of the Republican party. Carrie and Karen were really the two front runners in that race. And in July, the state democratic party put out a sort of tongue in cheek email thanking Karen Taylor Robeson for her support of the Democratic Party. And what this actually was, was they had pointed to a few few thousand dollars of donations that Taylor Robeson had made to democratic candidates in Congress and in Phoenix municipal races to kind of highlight, you know, this contradiction and raise questions.

3 (6m 10s):
I think about her, you know, g o p history.

7 (6m 13s):
I would put my record of donating to Republican candidates and conservative causes up against anybody running for office today.

3 (6m 21s):
The thing is, Karen Taylor Robson self-funded her campaign and put in 22 million. So a few thousand dollars to Democrats really doesn't compare with the money that she spent supporting Republicans throughout her career here in Arizona.

7 (6m 38s):
You know, the Democrats are coming after me now because they know I'm the nominee that they're gonna have trouble beating in November. They very late to win because they know that's,

2 (6m 48s):
That's, that's like really lowkey meddling. We're gonna tell you about Karen's low level financial support for a couple of Democrats, thereby casting Republican suspicions on Karen and making Carrie look like the better choice for Republicans and we're Democrats.

3 (7m 4s):
But you know, also, Carrie Lake used to be a Democrat. She voted for Obama, made donations to Obama.

7 (7m 12s):
She found God guns in the go P about a day and a half before she decided to run for governor. I mean, it is just a fake, She is an an opportunist

3 (7m 21s):
And so there's plenty of questions to raise about both candidates in the primary and their records there. Carrie Lake is probably most widely known for her stance on the 2020 election. She has said she believed that Trump won Arizona, although he didn't.

1 (7m 45s):
Anybody who was involved in that corrupt, shady, shoddy election of 2020 lock them up.

3 (7m 55s):
She continues to make claims that election procedures here in Arizona were not followed. That, you know, ballots were received late or raising concerns about chain of custody problems that have all been debunked beyond elections. She has made some claims that have really turned some people off. She was at an event where she sort of made light on the attack on Paul Pelosi saying,

1 (8m 29s):
It is not impossible to protect our kids at school. They act like it is Nancy Pelosi. Well, she's got protection when she's in DC Apparently her house doesn't have a lot of protection,

3 (8m 40s):
But that was well received by the crowd that she was in front of, but certainly has generated some controversy since then about just making light of a terrible attack.

2 (8m 50s):
Right? And that's how she gets this reputation of being the candidate who, as you put it, will say anything. Anything

3 (8m 56s):
That

2 (8m 57s):
Has made her distinctive, even in 2022 when it seems like anyone will say anything. Tell me about this event that happened over the summer

3 (9m 7s):
In August. She was at a rally here with Florida Governor Ron DeSantis and both of them certainly considered rising stars in Republican politics with potential future aspirations, but there was this moment where Carrie was talking about his sort of style and she referenced this phrase.

1 (9m 30s):
I'll tell you what he's got. I don't know if you heard of this, but he's got b d e. Anybody know what that means?

3 (9m 35s):
I hope listeners can fill in the blank there.

2 (9m 39s):
They can,

3 (9m 42s):
But she makes us reference, tells people

1 (9m 44s):
To ask your kids about it later

3 (9m 47s):
And then tries to couch it as

1 (9m 48s):
Big DeSantis energy. He's got the same kind of b d e that President Trump has

3 (9m 56s):
And it really is certainly not something I've ever heard said by a politician, and I mean, she hasn't said it since. So how it played, I think that's telling.

2 (10m 8s):
Where is Carrie Lake on the issues that people in Arizona really care about on the issues that they're voting on

3 (10m 18s):
When it comes to the economy, which we know people are really feeling it in their wallets right now, she has a plan to work with the legislature to prevent municipalities from charging grocery and rent taxes. We're

1 (10m 35s):
Gonna reduce and get rid of the grocery tax and the rental tax, so if you pay rent, you won't have to pay tax on that.

3 (10m 42s):
She is making border security the forefront of her campaign. Carrie has said that she will secure the border and in September she was at an event talking about border cartels that traffic people and drugs and what she's gonna do, and just directly quoted Donald Trump's controversial words. She cited the former president and then says

1 (11m 8s):
They are bringing drugs, they are bringing crime and they are rapists and that's who's coming across our border. That's a fact.

3 (11m 16s):
You know, really casting all migrants in this broad negative light. She wants to use an unproven and potentially problematic legal idea of declaring an invasion at the border to use state law enforcement resources. As deportation officers,

1 (11m 36s):
I will issue a declaration of invasion and we will work to stop these narco terrorists from human trafficking and drug trafficking into Arizona.

3 (11m 46s):
The campaign is pitching this as the big idea that she is going to do to defend the state. Even if it means a lawsuit, it will at least test, you know what else states can be doing when you know, as they portray the Biden administration just failing at the border, not really doing anything,

1 (12m 6s):
Our federal government has allowed this border to be wide open, allow criminals to come in, allow drugs to pour in, and they've done nothing about it.

2 (12m 18s):
What is she saying to voters about voting itself? You know very well that this has been a big issue in Arizona,

3 (12m 24s):
So she frequently calls Joe Biden the illegitimate president. You

1 (12m 29s):
Could say Biden won the presidency kind of like OJ is innocent. That's the same

3 (12m 34s):
In terms of actual policy. She has joined a court case to end early mail-in voting here in Arizona, which is how the vast majority of people cast their ballots. She's also filed a lawsuit to get rid of electronic vote tabulation machines, which would just slow down the process, be very challenging in terms of requiring a hand count of ballots. She has shifted a little bit how she talks about the 2020 election now she really frames it as citizens just trying to ask questions about election procedures.

1 (13m 14s):
We have the right and it's protected with our first amendment to question our government and to question

3 (13m 20s):
Elections, which is just a sharp contrast to her own claims just ahead of the primary that she had detected stealing going on. She has refused to provide any evidence of that and has largely sort of let that go. In the last three or four months on abortion, she has supported a very restrictive law that's on Arizona's books that bans abortions in almost every single circumstance unless you know a woman's life is in jeopardy and Levi's prison time against any doctors that provide abortions outside of those circumstances. More recently, she's also expressed an openness to another law that is on the books here in Arizona that bans abortions after 15 weeks,

9 (14m 8s):
Even when Pressed Lake wouldn't say which law she supports. Neither law includes exceptions for rape or incest. However, Lake insisted the 15 week band does,

3 (14m 19s):
The latest way that she's talking about this is she will follow the law, whatever it is, and we are waiting for courts to decide which is the prevailing law that Arizonan should follow.

2 (14m 31s):
Hey, have you interviewed Carrie

3 (14m 32s):
Lake? Yes, once she agreed to sit down with me once before the primary for about 20 minutes to talk about her board of security plan.

1 (14m 43s):
I'm, I'm really prepared for another hit piece from the Republic. The good news is our polling is showing that every day you guys write a hit piece on me or every, every week and it's not sticking

3 (14m 53s):
Because one of the unexpected things about interviewing Carrie Lake is anytime you talk to her or you interview her, you are also on camera. Her husband is her cameraman. They have this full operation, like multiple cameras, the big boom mic above your head that's like listening to everything biased. Why you are attacking my, you know, having lived here a short period of time. This is a state of newcomers. Lots of people

1 (15m 19s):
Are from, but I'm just saying, Stacy, you don't understand what the people of Arizona want. You don't understand the people because you haven't had a relationship like I have.

3 (15m 26s):
And the campaign will publish those videos.

2 (15m 31s):
So you've gone from being a print reporter to a television reporter overnight.

3 (15m 35s):
Yeah, I really was not prepared for that, but here we are.

Etsy (15m 50s):
Support for today. Explain comes from Etsy. Finding thoughtful personal holiday gifts can be a challenge. Whether you're shopping for a parent, your best friend, a coworker Etsy might have something special that hits the mark. Etsy offers a wide range of giftable items that your loved ones might actually enjoy. You can explore a number of different categories like fashion, decor, personalized gifts, and more, or search for a unique handmade take on something more specific. Every storefront on Etsy is a different small business hemmed by a maker, which means that your purchases offer online artisan's real direct support. If you're new to Etsy, you can use the code Mary 10, that's m e r r y 10 at the checkout for 10% off your first purchase. That's Code Mary 10. Maximum value of $50 people offer ends December 31st, 2022. See terms etsy.com/terms. Always read the terms for gifts of all kinds. Etsy has it. Shop etsy.com.

Canva (16m 55s):
Today's episode is sponsored by Canva for Teams. Canva is a platform that lets you make visually striking resumes, presentations, business cards and more. Canva for Teams is designed for collaboration. You can log activity and assigned tasks and roles with features designed for brand consistency. Canva for teams makes it easy to maintain your aesthetic and add your logos, fonts, and colors to anything you create. That way I'm told you're not switching color palettes. Every time your team posts to social media, the endless templates and premium fonts, photos, graphics, and videos can add personality to your team's. Content from social media, post to videos, presentations, and websites. Canva for teams can help you streamline your social media strategy. You can plan, create, and share social media content directly to all your channels from one place and even schedule posts ahead of time. Right now you can get a 45 day extended trial when you go to canva.me/explained. That's c a v a.me/explained. For a 45 day extended trial, canva.me/explained.

2 (18m 5s):
It's today explained. We're back with Stacy Baringer. She's a state politics reporter at the Arizona Republic and Stacy reminding ourselves that this race is a race. Tell me about Katie Hobbs, who's running against Carrie Lake for governor.

3 (18m 20s):
So Katie Hobbs is 52. She's the Democratic nominee. She has two children before running for office. She worked in social work and in the domestic violence advocacy arena. About 10 years ago, she ran for office, was elected to the state legislature in the House of Representatives. Then quickly moved over to the state Senate where she was chosen for a leadership role. In 2018, she ran for statewide office and was elected Arizona's Secretary of State. In that job, she is our Chief elections official overseeing elections, and that is really where we saw her come to national prominence in defending the state's 2020 election procedures and votes for Joe Biden.

3 (19m 9s):
There

11 (19m 10s):
Have been no irregularities in the process. The process is open and transparent. There are observers. Everything that we're doing is following law and procedure in terms of counting the ballots.

3 (19m 21s):
Her leading sort of campaign message, I think says it all.

12 (19m 25s):
It's a choice between sanity or chaos.

3 (19m 28s):
She of course, being the sanity in that equation. Katie Hobbs refused to debate Carrie Lake. Her stated reason for not doing the debate is that Carrie Lake is a conspiracy theorist and you know, kind of what is the point of going up against someone that doesn't deal in the truth.

12 (19m 49s):
I have no desire to be a part of, of the spectacle that she's looking to create.

3 (19m 53s):
Carrie Lake at every single opportunity tries to paint Katie Hobbs as a coward for not doing the debate.

1 (20m 0s):
She's, have you heard she's refusing to do debates? Not gonna do debates. Somebody just said coward. Okay, I didn't say it. You did, but I agree with you. All

3 (20m 12s):
Right. She has people showing up in chicken costumes. So just a sharp contrast in sort of the styles I would say of these two candidates and just one sort of data. Point to that is Saturday Night Live, Spoofed Carry Lake,

13 (20m 30s):
Great to be with you, Judy, on your sweet little show. Full of lies.

3 (20m 35s):
And it was in the cold open. Cecily Strong as Carrie Lake, you know, she's always like camera ready.

13 (20m 43s):
I'm just a regular hometown gal. Constantly in soft focus and lit like a nineties Cinemax soft core and

3 (20m 51s):
Frankly hitting on the election denial stuff. But then also just sort of how Kerry Lake speaks to the media.

14 (20m 58s):
Well now one of your main campaign issues is the denial of the 2020

13 (21m 3s):
Election. Can you media types, just get over the one thing. I've made the center of my campaign for months and months,

3 (21m 9s):
So kind of hitting on that.

2 (21m 10s):
Historically, Arizona has been a red state, but in 2020 the state went very narrowly for Joe Biden. Without asking you to prognosticate too much, do the polls show this race breaking red or breaking blue?

3 (21m 25s):
It's pretty tied. The latest poll I saw was a New York Times Sienna College poll that put it exactly. Even certainly it appears that Carrie Lake has some momentum over these last couple of weeks that she is gaining ground, which, you know, I think matches what we've seen for the Republican momentum generally this cycle. But it's a pretty even race.

2 (21m 51s):
Arizona is obviously at the center of some high profile fights over voting allegations of voter fraud. Do you think Carrie Lake will consider this a fair contest? Will she concede if she loses? What has she said?

3 (22m 3s):
She went on CNN a couple of weeks ago and was asked multiple times if she would concede if she loses. She refused to say that she would do so.

0 (22m 13s):
Will you accept the results of your election in November?

1 (22m 18s):
I'm gonna win the election and I will accept that result. If

0 (22m 21s):
You lose, will you accept that

1 (22m 23s):
I'm gonna win the election and I will accept that result

3 (22m 26s):
More recently than that in another interview, You know, she said she would accept the results of the election

1 (22m 33s):
If we have a fair, honest, and transparent election. Absolutely, 100%.

3 (22m 37s):
Neither of those are direct confirmations that you know, Yes, she would concede if she loses. And I think if you rewind and look back to the primary about a week before that election, it was another very, very close race. And we heard Carrie Lake claim stealing was going on without evidence. She has not provided any,

1 (23m 0s):
We're already detecting fraud.

9 (23m 2s):
The top Republican candidate for Governor Kerry Lake telling a room full of supporters that efforts to steal the election are already underway.

3 (23m 10s):
So perhaps, you know, those claims from the primary are a signal of what's to come.

2 (23m 18s):
What I hear you saying is, Arizona has a remarkably charismatic candidate who knows how to talk to voters, who knows how to use the press. Who knows how to get the attention of Donald Trump if she loses. It doesn't sound like we've necessarily seen or heard the last of Carrie

3 (23m 36s):
Lake. Oh yeah. I mean, I think you're totally right. You know, she's been floated as a potential vice president. She'll pick for Donald Trump. He was asked about this and said, you know, let her be governor first,

6 (23m 50s):
Lets Carrie get to be governor. But she's, she's gonna be around a long time. She's very respected and very

3 (23m 56s):
Strong. I think it's certain that Carrie Lake is going to be a prominent figure, whether it's in politics or you know, in the media going forward, even after this election here in Arizona.

2 (24m 20s):
All right, so this is a big week for the us. It could be days, it could be weeks. Before we know the final, final, final outcome. In the meantime, I wanna let you know that we have some fascinating and possibly most importantly, rigorously fact checked midterms shows coming up this week. Tomorrow we ask whether the country would be better off if voting were mandatory. And then on Wednesday, we're gonna start to break down the results from the most important races across the country. Today's show was an artsy production. It was edited by Matthew Colette, in fact, checked rigorously by Laura Bullard. It was engineered by Paul Robert Moey. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.