4 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from Thera gun because soreness and muscle pain and muscle tension is a real thing and the Thera gun cares more than your significant other does. They've got a risk free 30-day trial right now, you can get started with your ther gun for only 199 dollars at their gun dot coms explained right now. That is tarragon.com explained to try out the Thera gun Gen 4 for with an OLED screen a personalized app and the quiet power your partner could never

3 (37s):
provide. The federal government has blocked access to abortion for people with low incomes for over 40 years through the Hyde Amendment enough is enough Joe Biden pledge to an ACLU volunteer that he'd end the Hyde Amendment and if elected we need him to follow through on that pledge Biden can lead on reproductive Freedom by removing bands on coverage in his first budget and refusing to sign bills with hide restrictions. The time to end hide is now paid for by Americans. erican, civil liberties Union Inc rights for all dot-org Kenosha Wisconsin is about halfway between Milwaukee and Chicago and for a while.

3 (1m 22s):
It was a pretty booming industrial town. But now it's considered more of a Chicago

4 (1m 28s):
suburb. This is Gina Barton. She's been covering Kenosha for the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel

3 (1m 35s):
around five o'clock on Sunday. The police got a call about a domestic incident in Kenosha and they responded and they found some sort of disturbance that Involved Jacob Lake and some women it's not clear exactly. What was happening. Some onlookers have told us that he was actually trying to break up a fight between the women at some point. He became involved in a scuffle with the police officers who used a taser on him we found out recently and it was not effective. So then we've all seen this video of Jacob lake standing up walking kind of slowly around the front of his car.

3 (2m 15s):
Our and opening the door to get in his three children were inside he opens the car door with his back to the officers. One of them grabbed him by the shirt and shoots him seven times point blank in the back. He falls down onto the steering wheel and the horn starts blaring and people start

2 (2m 38s):
screaming. Wow.

3 (2m 50s):
Please call for medical assistance and Jacob lake is airlifted by helicopter to the hospital put into surgery about 24 hours later. The news comes out that he has in fact survived and is expected to be paralyzed from the waist down. And within hours Mass Gatherings of demonstrators and protesters are starting to take to the streets in Kenosha by the time the sun goes down on Sunday. There are hundreds of people who have taken to the streets and the unrest escalates to fires being set Windows being broken and entire car lot was set on fire that first night.

3 (3m 34s):
The protests continued on Monday night and that's when things started getting worse in terms of property destruction after dark there were several businesses that were burned into different neighborhoods of Kenosha. The National Guard was called out so that night there were a hundred twenty-five troops and by Tuesday Morning, our state officials had realized that that was not enough so on Tuesday night. there were 250 National Guard troops as well as a huge police and Sheriff's Department presence and Equally as many protesters are maybe not quite as many but the thing with the protesters was they weren't all in the same place.

3 (4m 26s):
And I think that is when the situation became difficult to control the line of officers marched into the park where the main protest had occurred drove everyone out of the park relatively easily, but then once they had left the park it seemed as if Lon Spent didn't have a plan of where the people should go next. They kept ordering them to disperse but then when people didn't they kind of didn't know what to do the other issue that we've had at these protests not only this week but all summer is armed civilians some of them officially calling themselves militias.

3 (5m 11s):
Some of them calling themselves other things the Boogaloo boys the Kenosha guard. Have been coming in to the protest. They're saying to help preserve order and protect businesses and protect people's safety the Kenosha guard. In fact one and two team up with the police and had asked the police and Sheriff's Department. Hey, why don't you deputize us so we can help you and the sheriff said his response to that was. Oh hell no, but in any case The police were not arresting these men with guns on curfew violation.

3 (5m 51s):
They weren't trying to clear them from the area. And in fact, a lot of people now have seen this video where sheriff's deputies from Kenosha. We're giving water to some of these armed militia members. And in fact saying we really appreciate your help one of these armed citizens who turned out to be a Nineteen-year-old from Illinois named Kyle Rittenhouse. He shot a man in the head and that man falls to the ground and dies. We're not exactly sure what prompted Kyle Rittenhouse to start shooting what we know is that then Rittenhouse starts

2 (6m 35s):
running at some point he trips and he's on the ground and to other people were trying to disarm him. He fired at both of those people hitting one of them in the chest and abdomen area and killing him and then the other man was shot in the arm. At one point in this video, you can see him walking with his hands up and the bystanders are trying to tell the

3 (7m 15s):
cops. He just shot some people that's him. He's the guy and the police who are coming in the people in armored vehicles don't seem to hear don't seem to

2 (7m 23s):
realize and then the shooter just walks away. He ends up back home and he's arrested the following day authorities announce the arrest of 17

4 (7m 39s):
year old Kyle Rittenhouse of Antioch, Illinois in connection with the fatal shooting

2 (7m 43s):
of two people a 26 year old from Silver Lake and a 36 year old from Kenosha 26 year old.

4 (7m 50s):
I think this is what a lot of people struggle with right. It's that you watch a video of an unarmed Jacob Lake surrounded by his family members trying to get into his SUV. UV whereas kids are he gets shot seven times in the back. Then you watch this kid walking down the street with a semi-automatic rifle. Everyone's screaming pointing. He just shot people. He just killed two people and he just walked by multiple armored police vehicles and and cruisers and eventually goes home and goes to sleep

3 (8m 23s):
the sheriff in canosa did address that very question yesterday. how did they just let this guy walk away and I think there were two things at play here one is when you have a lot of White men walking around with guns people get used to seeing them and to thinking like, oh, that's just the militia guys, you know, which is kind of scary in itself. Kyle Rittenhouse is a young white man. Jacob Lake was a young black man.

3 (9m 4s):
The other thing that the sheriff said about this incident is that it was in fact a very chaotic scene and I believe him about That it was crazy people were screaming armored vehicles are really noisy police sirens yelling. So it is possible that no one realized that Rittenhouse is the one everybody was pointing to maybe nobody could actually comprehend what they were trying to say and it just sounded like Panic screams to them. How does this

4 (9m 40s):
escalate after Kyle Rittenhouse kills two people on Tuesday night,

3 (9m 46s):
the shooting of Jacob Lake had received National and international attention on Sunday Monday after the shootings on Tuesday night. This story became even bigger and the spotlight was shining even brighter on Kenosha the Federal Department of Justice announced that they were going to conduct. A civil rights investigation into the shooting of Jacob Lake the State Department of Justice started putting out information about the shooting itself saying that he had a knife on the floorboard of his car. And then the Milwaukee Bucks who were scheduled to play a playoff game didn't come out of the locker room for several hours and instead made a statement saying basketball is not important right now.

3 (10m 41s):
We're not going to play we need to urge our lawmakers to do something about this and to hold police

1 (10m 47s):
accountable.

4 (10m 56s):
And we should note here that NBA players and coaches have been talking about this all week. Right LeBron James Doc Rivers.

2 (11m 4s):
Just just watching the Republican Revenge a convention and this this viewing the sphere right? Like all you hear that Will trump and all of them talking about fear. We're the ones getting killed the other ones getting shot. We're the ones that were denied to live in certain communities. We've been home. We've been shot and All you do is keep hearing about fear. It's it's amazing.

2 (11m 44s):
Why we keep loving this country and this country does not love his

3 (11m 49s):
Bat. That snowballed into the NBA postponing all of their games on Wednesday WNBA did the same thing

4 (11m 59s):
right some baseball games some soccer games. I think hockey had like a moment of silence

3 (12m 5s):
on Wednesday night during his speech vice president. Mike Pence address it briefly saying

4 (12m 14s):
too many Heroes have died defending our freedom to see American strike each other down we will

2 (12m 21s):
Have Law and Order on the streets of this country for every American of every race and Creed and color.

3 (12m 31s):
There are definitely some people in Kenosha who were hearing Mike Pence's message about preserving Law and Order. One of those people was Kyle Rittenhouse who we've seen photos from him that were published by BuzzFeed of him in the front row at a trump rally, but the timing was poorer considering that one of those people who claimed to be out there promoting Law and Order killed two people

4 (13m 4s):
more with Gina in a

1 (13m 6s):
minute.

4 (13m 22s):
Support for the show today comes from Sun basket because we could all use a basket of sin in our lives right now or more specifically a basket of healthy delicious food. That's what Sun basket is offering you right now. They've got tasty easy to prepare recipes that will go with that food and make you feel good about what you're eating every box of food. You'll get from some basket comes packed with organic produce Source from Small farms and fresh meat that's never treated with antibiotics hormones or steroids. They got recipes that will surprise you that will excite you and they've also got a huge selection of meals that are great for the gluten-free family.

4 (14m 4s):
They're the people trying to paleo thing the vegetarians give some basket a try right now. They're offering today explain listeners $35 off your order when you go to Sun basket.com explained and enter the promo code explained at checkout. Again, that is Sun basket.com explained with the promo code explained checkout for $35 off your order.

2 (14m 31s):
This episode of today explained is brought to you by a vast a global leader in

4 (14m 36s):
cybersecurity. When you move across the internet, you leave digital breadcrumbs behind you valuable information on things like your location health and finances data Brokers can sell this information to third parties, which can have serious consequences of asked breach guard

2 (14m 52s):
automatically scans the

4 (14m 53s):
web for your data and get your data back from broker databases. So third parties

2 (14m 58s):
can't take advantage

4 (14m 59s):
of asked also alert. If your passwords have been leaked, so you stay protected from all sides with our digital Footprints growing bigger every day. It's important to

2 (15m 8s):
have backup to help keep us safe.

4 (15m 11s):
Join Over 435 million users who trust a vast to keep them private and protected online. Don't worry about viruses phishing attacks ransomware hacking attempts or cyber crime because Avast has your back learn more about avast's privacy security and performance product at a

2 (15m 29s):
vast.com.

4 (15m 39s):
Gina I imagine a lot of people are hearing about Kenosha, Wisconsin for the first time because LeBron James is talking about it because Mike Pence is talking about it because of what happened to Jacob Lake and what Kyle Rittenhouse did what do people need to know about Kenosha to really understand what happened there this week.

3 (15m 57s):
I think people should know that Kenosha has a long history of problems between the police and the citizens but unlike Milwaukee Baltimore Minneapolis some of the other big cities where these sorts of shootings have happened. I don't think race is necessarily the only Factor at play in Kenosha in Milwaukee. For example white people tend to have a pretty good relationship. Some sleep with the police and black people don't in Kenosha. No one has a good relationship with the police.

3 (16m 38s):
In Wisconsin, we were the first state to pass a law that required outside investigation of police shootings. So the agency where the officers

2 (16m 49s):
employed can't do the investigation of a fatal police

3 (16m 53s):
shooting and that happened because in 2004 the Kenosha police shot a young man named Michael Bell point blank in the head Michael Bell was white back then. police departments could investigate their own officer involved

2 (17m 12s):
shootings that Kenosha Police Department over there investigator themselves and in two days the co-workers of the men that killed my son found that the shooting was

3 (17m 22s):
justified that's not enough time to do an investigation at all and of the five shootings that we are aware of Since that time three were white one was black and the other we don't know those are fatal shootings and another incident that escalated the focus on police. Brutality here in Wisconsin was in 2016 when the Milwaukee Police shot and killed a man named Seville Smith.

4 (17m 54s):
So Bill Smith was shot and killed

2 (17m 56s):
by an officer following what police say was a traffic stop in a foot

3 (17m 59s):
chase and at that point we had A lot of violent demonstrations and civil unrest in Milwaukee with buildings being burned and Bricks being thrown confrontations between police and members of the

4 (18m 14s):
public. So there haven't been effective reforms of this police department since the early 2000s

3 (18m 22s):
as far as I can tell. There have not been effective reforms of the Kenosha Police

4 (18m 28s):
Department. How did they handle Jacob Lakes shooting

3 (18m 37s):
to their credit they called in the Wisconsin Department of Justice to do the investigation immediately. So I see that as an improvement there trying to be more transparent. They're saying we're going to hand this off to somebody with more expertise than us in investigating these kinds of officer-involved shootings. So I do think that that was a positive thing. The issue that continues to present itself though is I think all of these protests have shown that citizens want transparency, right? They want to know what's happening and if bystanders had not recorded video we might never know what happened to Jacob Lake people might believe the police version of events or not believe it but have no credibility to back up the disbelief.

3 (19m 37s):
Finally three days after Jacob Lake was shot the Wisconsin Department of Justice released the name of the officer involved and confirmed that Jacob Lake had been tased before he was shot and that there was a knife on the floorboard of his car.

4 (19m 56s):
There's all these Extra attention on Kenosha right now does the fact that you know, multiple sports leagues are postponing games and athletes are making statements. Does that greater scrutiny mean Kenosha Wisconsin might take reform a little more. Seriously.

3 (20m 15s):
I have hope that this shooting and everything that's happened since could possibly bring about some substantive changes in Kenosha and in the state of Wisconsin one issue that we've had here as in many other places is the partisan divide. So for a long time, we had Republicans in charge of both chambers of the legislature and in the governor's mansion and they were not necessarily inclined to Institute a lot of police reform. now we have a Democratic governor and we have a group of Republican legislators who are also seeing that change is necessary.

3 (21m 7s):
So on Wednesday. A set of bills to reform policing and police accountability was unveiled here in Wisconsin will see how far it gets.

4 (21m 27s):
And unlike so many of these cases that were used to seeing including George Floyd including Brianna Taylor including Ahmad arbitrary Jacob Blake might actually be around to advocate for himself and for

3 (21m 41s):
change. Jacob lake is expected to survive and his family has already come out with some really strong statements about how unhappy he would be with all the violence that's occurring and his mother made some really strong statements the other day about how if people will just focus on each other's Humanity things will change.

2 (22m 6s):
We are the United States. Have we been United? Do you understand? What's going to happen? When we fall because a house that is gives each other cannot stand.

4 (22m 29s):
Gina Barton is an investigative reporter covering Criminal Justice at the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. She hosts a podcast to it's called unsolved. I'm Shawn Rama's firm. This is today

1 (22m 41s):
explained.

3 (22m 58s):
Hi, I'm Avery troubleman and I'm the new host of the cut podcast from New York Magazine and the VOX media podcast Network every Wednesday the cut editorial team and I will explore surprising provocative ideas about style self culture and Power in our first episode. We're looking at what it means to be optimistic in 2020. You can listen And subscribe to the cut now on Apple podcast or wherever you listen.