0 (0s):
The number one half hour comedy on prime video is back in this futuristic satire. People can upload their consciousness to a luxurious digital afterlife. I can use a little vacation vacation, and it's exhausting this season, Nathan, Noah, Luke, and Alicia team up to make uploading accessible for everyone. We take misplace Outback from the guy who brought you the office and parks and recreation watch upload season one. Now, before season two comes out on March 11th, only on prime video

1 (31s):
Support for this episode comes from ad yet. Andy is the payments platform may for today, tomorrow, and whatever comes next with Andy and single solution, it's simple to accept all kinds of payments in app online in store touch-free and beyond, and it seamlessly adapt with your business. So keep your customers happy and your business growing with add yet business, not boundaries. Visit <em></em> dot com to learn more. That's a D Y E n.com.

3 (1m 13s):
Good afternoon. Today as we watch freedom and Liberty under attack abroad, I'm here to fulfill my responsibilities under the constitution to preserve freedom and Liberty here in the United States of America. On Friday,

4 (1m 31s):
President Joe Biden announced his nominee to replace retiring justice. Stephen Brier on the Supreme court of the United

3 (1m 38s):
Daughter of former public school teachers, a proven consensus builder and accomplished lawyer, but distinguished jurors. One of the nation's most on one of the nation's most prestigious courts, my nominee for the United States Supreme court judge Katon G Jackson

4 (1m 57s):
Boxes, Supreme correspondent in Millhiser is going to help us understand why Jackson's historic nomination might not feel quite as game changing as it should.

5 (2m 9s):
I mean, this is an important moment in that we have reached a point as a country where we are hopefully going to have a black woman on the highest court. And that is, that is very important. The problem is that she is going to be a black woman on the highest court that has a six to three Republican super majority. And she is replacing one of the few liberals on the Supreme court. So she will be younger than justice Briar, who she is replacing. She will be a black woman while justice Briar is a white man, but she will still be on a Supreme court that is absolutely dominated by movement conservative ideologues.

4 (2m 48s):
Okay, well, before we talk about the implications or the lack thereof, let's talk about the nominee. Who is she?

5 (2m 55s):
So Tongy brown Jackson.

6 (2m 60s):
I must begin these very brief remarks by thanking God for delivering me to this point in my professional journey,

5 (3m 9s):
She is a longtime federal judge. She's been a federal judge since 2013 and last year president Biden appointed her to the DC sir.

7 (3m 22s):
After the Supreme court, the DC circuit court of appeals is the most important federal court in the country. And judge Jackson nominated to seed once occupied by the current attorney general is the perfect person for the job.

5 (3m 37s):
Actually qualified nominee went to Harvard law school clerked for justice, Briar,

6 (3m 43s):
Greatest job that any young lawyer could ever hope to have, but he also exemplified every day in every way that a Supreme court justice can perform at the highest level of skill and integrity while also being guided by civility, grace, pragmatism and generosity of spirit.

5 (4m 5s):
So in a different world, I would expect her to be confirmed by a fairly lop-sided vote.

4 (4m 13s):
And when we spoke to just about a month ago, when justice Briar retired, you predicted that judge Jackson would be the nominee. Was this just a sort of done deal way back then? And how long have we known that she would be the nominee?

5 (4m 28s):
It wasn't a done deal. Jim Cliburn, who's a very powerful member of the house and a close ally of president. Biden's pushed a different candidate. Michelle Childs, who's a judge in South Carolina, but I mean, there were all sorts of signs that Jackson was the front runner and president Obama had interviewed her for a Supreme court vacancy in 2016. She's a former public defender and she's someone who has been in the mix as a potential democratic nominee for a long time. And she's a black woman and president Biden a promise to appoint a black woman,

3 (5m 4s):
I'm elected president and have an opportunity to appoint someone to the courts will be I'll appoint the first black woman to the courts. It's required that they have representation. Now it's long overdue.

5 (5m 15s):
So, you know, I mean, there wasn't any certainty when Briar announced his nomination, that she would be the nominee, but if you're a betting person, she was the odds on favorite.

4 (5m 26s):
How does she become a judge? Tell me a bit more about her path.

5 (5m 29s):
So she went to Harvard twice, twice, twice, both for undergraduate and for law school. When she was at Harvard undergrad, she met her husband who is now a surgeon, but is also a, I guess, related to former speaker, Paul Ryan, what Chuck's eating Paul Ryan's car has given me hope for the future, my car dealer as well, the Republican who until fairly recently was one of the top Republicans in the country. How is

4 (5m 58s):
She related to

5 (5m 58s):
Paul Ryan? So I actually had to write this down or like more accurately. I asked your producer to write this down for me. Thank you, William. She is Paul Ryan's wife's sister's husband's brother's wife. Wait, what? Paul Ryan's wife. Sister's husband's brother's wife. So her husband has a twin. Her husband's twin is married to Paul Ryan's wife's sister. There will be a quiz on this at the end of the episode for everyone who is, who is following along.

4 (6m 30s):
So basically she and Paul Ryan are strangers. I

5 (6m 33s):
Mean, they know each, I mean actually one thing that's very interesting is that when she was initially nominated to the federal bench, Paul Ryan introduced her before the committee, he sent, you know, a very kind tweet after she was nominated. Oh, saying that while he doesn't agree with her politically on a lot of things, he respects her intellect. She respects her drive. So that's nice. Yeah. I mean, I don't know how much juice Paul Ryan has in a Republican party that has become less libertarian and more authoritarian than it was when Paul Ryan was in charge. But you know, she does have this one very prominent Republican relative.

4 (7m 12s):
Well, I want to know more about our politics now, but let's talk about her time as a lawyer. So she starts as a public defender.

5 (7m 17s):
She didn't start as a public defender. I mean, she, she starts like, I think many Harvard grads do at a law firm because that's, that's how you pay off those loans. But she quickly transitioned into public service. She worked on the sentencing commission, which is a federal agency. And what they do is they draft guidelines that are used by every federal judge to determine what the appropriate sentences should be. When someone is convicted of a crime after work at the sentencing commission for a while, she was like, what am I doing? Setting sentencing policy. If I don't really have enough experience in the trenches with what the criminal justice system looks like.

5 (7m 59s):
So she became a federal public defender and she did that for a few years, mostly arguing appeals in front of the DC circuit, the court that she sits on right now, the most interesting thing that she did is that she wound up doing a fair amount of work on behalf of Guantanamo bay. She had a client who was a Guantanamo bay and may

6 (8m 18s):
About 16 years ago when I was a federal public defender.

8 (8m 23s):
Okay. And was that case assigned to you as a federal public defender? It was. Who was the client that you had?

6 (8m 30s):
Oh, Senator I don't remember the name.

5 (8m 32s):
Okay. Could we, you would go on because she developed expertise as a public defender on Guantanamo bay. She would go on to write some Amicus briefs about give Mo policy. There was, as you remember, during the Bush administration, a big fight over what sort of legal process these inmates add.

9 (8m 50s):
I prohibiting Colonel Davis from testifying. The administration is trying to stop a fair and open discussion about the legal rights of detainees at Guantanamo

5 (9m 3s):
Clear whether they're entitled to any legal process at all, whether they would get real corridor or tribunals

9 (9m 9s):
And what needs to be done with detainees, who can't be charged and what legal rights should all detainees be afforded.

5 (9m 17s):
And she was one of the lawyers, you know, one of the many lawyers who was arguing that, you know, there should be adequate process for these individuals to determine that they actually belong in a military prison. It seems fair. But the thing about public defense work is that typically a public defender handles the cases that are assigned to them and everything that I have seen and heard about her record as a public defender, she was just a really competent advocate. She wanted to do that kind of service, where she took the clients that were assigned to her and she would, she did an effective job of finding legal errors in their convictions and their sentences.

5 (10m 0s):
And then she got appointed as the vice chair of the sentencing commission at a really auspicious time for her to take on that role because Congress had just passed a law that reduced sentences for a lot of drug offenders. And specifically for people caught with crack cocaine. Okay. But that law wasn't automatically made retroactive. And so as a sentencing commissioner, one of the big things that she helped push was trying to make that policy retroactive. So a lot of people who are already in prison for often very minor drug offenses, one of getting years slashed off of their sentences because this new law was made retroactive for them.

4 (10m 43s):
Do you think she was on this sort of public defenders sentencing commission trajectory? Because she was always trying to be a judge when,

5 (10m 52s):
I mean, she said when she was very young that she wanted to be a judge, but I mean, federal judge ships are hard to get. I don't know that anyone could really play on their life around becoming a judge much, much less ain't justice. There's always a certain amount of luck involved. And she is very lucky in that she was in the right place when Joe Biden happened to be president because in the past judge ships have typically gone to law firm partners. They've gone to prosecutors, they've gone to people who are part of the system. And often people who make a lot of money being part of the system and can make lots of donations to senators.

5 (11m 31s):
And president Biden has worked very hard to put people in judge ships who do not necessarily have that background. He's appointed quite a number of public defenders. He's appointed quite a number of civil rights lawyers to the federal bench. You know, he has been looking for candidates who have done a very particular kind of public service work, where they were representing most vulnerable people in society. And so, you know, Jackson's career trajectory. You know, if I was advising her in say 2008, what should you do for the next few years or set yourself up for a judgeship? I wouldn't have told her become a public defender because that wasn't a common path for someone to become a judge.

5 (12m 17s):
She is fortunate in that she happened to be well-positioned for the Supreme court at the time when we have a president who is particularly interested in appointing judges with her background,

4 (12m 43s):
More with Ian and that quiz he promised after these messages from our sponsors Support for the show. And it comes from the threat up threat up. It's like T H R E D U P uppercase lowercase T F Y thread up is one of the largest online thrift stores where you can save up to 90% off estimated retail prices. They have thrift level deals with the convenience of online shopping. So you don't have to go to the Goodwill or the crossroads and touch all the things.

4 (13m 23s):
You can just look at them on the internet, save you a lot of time and potentially even money if you're into that kind of thing. Also, if you realize that that blue top you order, doesn't go with those mustard pants after you purchase thread up, makes it easy to return. Thread up is offering a deal for new customers right now. So go to thread up.com and get up to an additional 50% off plus free shipping on your first order. That's an extra 50% off plus free shipping on your first order just by heading to thread up.com. And that is T H R E D U p.com for up to 50% off and free shipping on your first order.

0 (14m 2s):
The number one half hour comedy on prime video is back in this futuristic satire. People can upload their consciousness to a luxurious digital afterlife and use a

2 (14m 12s):
Little vacation. Hey, your life is vacation and

0 (14m 15s):
It's exhausting this season, Nathan, Noah, Luke, and Alicia team up to make uploading accessible for everyone.

2 (14m 22s):
We take this place

0 (14m 24s):
From the guy who brought you the office and parks, the recreation upload seasons one and two were now available only on prime video.

4 (14m 36s):
You mentioned earlier that Paul Ryan probably doesn't like his wife's sister's husband's brother's wife's politics very much. What are her politics?

5 (14m 46s):
I mean, the answer is that's actually a pretty good question. I mean, I don't have any reason to that. She'd be a very conventional democratic nominee in the vein of someone like Steven Briar or Elena Kagan or someone like that. And I do think that, you know, when someone chooses to become a public defender, when someone chooses to focus on sentencing policy at a time when the federal government is thinking, how can we make sentences less harsh? I mean, that does say something about their core political commitments, but as a judge, like the DC courts typically hear a lot of very technical cases dealing with questions about which federal agency has the power to do what, and which courts have the power to review actions by federal agencies.

5 (15m 35s):
And these are often extraordinarily important cases, but they aren't the sort of cases that produce a lot of headlines. And until very recently, they haven't been very political. I mean, some of these cases have become political because the Republican party has wanted to tamp down the ability of federal agencies to do very much, but that's a new development for the most part she's been dealing with very technical questions, very difficult questions. I think she showed a great deal of technical expertise in her opinions, but very few of the things that she's done as a judge tells me much at all about her politics. Hmm.

4 (16m 15s):
Does she have any sort of landmark cases from that era as a federal judge?

5 (16m 20s):
The case that I think is probably going to get the most attention is a ruling in a case called McGahn. And the McGahn in that case is Donald McGahn, the former white house counsel under Trump. I hear he plays

4 (16m 32s):
A mean guitar.

5 (16m 38s):
Played a mean guitar and Trump didn't want him to talk about Russia. So McGahn was subpoenaed by the house to talk about the broader Russia investigation regarding Russia's potential interference with the 2016 election. Trump didn't want him to testify. The Trump justice department raised a lot of frankly, very sketchy legal arguments claiming that, you know, the president has an absolute right to say that his advisors can't testify in front of Congress and Jackson wrote what was really a very measured opinion. Some very harsh words from

3 (17m 13s):
This judge who says over 250 years

5 (17m 15s):
Of people, there's one line from it. Presidents are not Kings, which was rhetorically very interesting, but the actual holding of that decision was that McGahn did have to physically present himself to the committee, but while he was there, he could invoke executive privilege. And he could like say in response to questions, or I can't answer that because it's privileged and then they'd have to have a whole legal fight over the privilege. So it was a very narrow decision. It wound up going up to an appeals court and it got bottled up in the appeals court for like a year and a half until finally president Biden won and McGahn struck a deal with Congress where he just went ahead and testified after Donald Trump was no longer in office.

5 (18m 2s):
So the case wound up generating a whole lot of heat, but it didn't really matter all that much. And, you know, it's when one big reason it didn't matter all that much is because it didn't really go that far out on a limb. I mean, even if Jackson's view had prevailed, what that would have meant was that Negan would have had to physically sit in a seat and he probably would have said the words, well, I'm not going to answer that question because of executive privilege over and over.

4 (18m 26s):
Yeah. It doesn't sound that controversial a nominee. Is that part of what president Biden may have liked about judge Jackson?

5 (18m 35s):
Well, I mean, I think confirmability is something that any president likes and part of the problem that I think any democratic president faces is, you know, the Senator smile, a portion Republicans effectively get extra seats in the Senate because of all these small red states that are very few people in them. And yet they still get two senators just like California, which is an enormous state with nearly 40 million people in it. In the current Senate, the democratic majority and the Republican minority are both 50 seats. The reason why the Democrats have the majority is Camila Harris gets a tiebreaker vote. But even though they have the same number of seats, Democrats represent 42 million more people.

5 (19m 17s):
So it's just hard to confirm a Democrat to the Supreme court, asked Merrick Garland how that wet Democrats have to really crush a few elections in a row in order to have the narrowest majority in the Senate. And given that sort of unfair imbalance, it means that I think democratic presidents often have to be very cautious in who they nominate and someone whose record doesn't have a lot of red flags that are likely to, you know, upset Republicans is easier to confirm than someone who's more of a bomb thrower.

4 (19m 52s):
I think the last time you were on our show talking about Brian's retirement and judge Jackson herself in, you mentioned that she's already been up for Senate confirmation with a Senate, with the similar makeup as the one we have now, right?

5 (20m 4s):
Oh, she was up for confirmation to the DC circuit last year. So in front of the exact same Senate,

4 (20m 9s):
The exact same Senate, how did it go? Then

5 (20m 12s):
She was confirmed. She even got three Republican votes, Collins, Murkowski and Graham. And one thing that really stood out to me, what I was going back, looking at her past confirmation is, you know, so she had a confirmation hearing, I believe in April of 2021

11 (20m 28s):
Today the Senate judiciary committee will hold its first judicial nominations, hearing of the hundred and 17th Congress.

5 (20m 35s):
At that point, everyone knew she was a leading contender for the Supreme court. Like, you know, specifically Republican opposition. Researchers knew that she was a likely Supreme court nominee

4 (20m 46s):
As in the kinds of people who dig up dirt on likely Supreme court nominees,

5 (20m 50s):
The people whose job it is to rough up Katon G brown Jackson knew that it was in their interest to rough up Katagiri brown Jackson. And they came up with very little, I mean like her, her, it was a weird confirmation here. Like, you know, Chuck Grassley and Mike Lee who are normally very partisan Republicans, mostly asked her very wonky questions about sentencing policy.

12 (21m 13s):
Explain how your views differ from judge priors or specifically, why do you trust judges with more discretion when it comes to sentencing than prior guts?

6 (21m 25s):
Thank you for that question, Senator. And first, let me just,

5 (21m 29s):
You know, there was this weird exchange with Senator Thom Tillis, the Republican from North Carolina, where he attacked her because Rachel, Matt Al the MSNBC host once praised her McGahn opinion,

13 (21m 42s):
Production crew can run the video clip of Ms. .

5 (21m 47s):
So now there were a few senators who attacked her because an organization called demand justice, which is just one of the many left leading organizations that work on judges in Washington, DC supported her nomination. Like people would ask her what a relationship was with demand justice. And she said, I don't have a relationship with demand justice. So like Republicans were making the sort of attacks that you make it get somewhere where you feel like you have to attack them, but you don't have anything really to work with light. Like, I mean, it was, it was just very surprising to be that in this very high stakes confirmation hearing where every Republican Senator had to know that if you made it to the DC circuit, there was a very good chance.

5 (22m 32s):
He was going to be a Supreme court justice that they just weren't able to dig up any real dirt on,

4 (22m 37s):
But all the same, most Republicans in the Senate did not vote for her. Right.

5 (22m 41s):
And then she got three Republican votes. So, you know, I think the general problem you have with the Supreme court right now is you have two overlapping problems. One is the Senate malapportionment that I mentioned earlier. And the other is that the Supreme court is just too damn powerful. Like every time there's a vacancy, we're appointing one of the nine Supreme leaders who have the power to veto any law that they want. And so each Supreme court fight is a huge existential battle. It is intolerable to either party that a member of the other party should get to sit on the Supreme court. And so Republicans are overrepresented in the Senate and they have this huge incentive to oppose anyone that Biden nominates, no matter how qualified that person is, no matter how unoffensive that person is.

5 (23m 30s):
And I just think you're going to see that dynamic play out again. I think she's very likely to be confirmed, but I think it's probably going to be a narrow vote for that reason. And,

4 (23m 40s):
And once she's appointed, if she's appointed, she doesn't do much to shift the power balance on the

5 (23m 46s):
Court, right? Yeah. I mean, the court will look very different than it did, you know, even, you know, a couple of decades ago, you know, not only will she be the first black woman on the court, there will be four women on the Supreme court for the first time ever. So, you know, we're, we're finally achieving something close to gender parody on the Supreme court, but all of this is happening at a time when the court is dominated by very, very conservative ideologues. And I don't see anything in a record that suggests that she's going to vote very differently from justice Briar, the man she's replacing, but Briar spent a lot of time writing dissenting opinions and joining dissenting opinions in the, in the big cases these last few years,

4 (24m 27s):
But all the same first black woman on the court, almost gender parody on the court for the first time in its history. That is progress.

5 (24m 36s):
It is. I, I mean, and it's, you know, it's sort of the paradox of living in the United States. And in 2022, On the one hand, I think we have a more equal society than we've ever had. We have more people who are not white men in positions of extraordinary prominence than we've ever had, but we also have this revanchist conservative movement motivated in part by backlash to the progress that we've seen is pushing very hard to undo much of that property.

4 (25m 26s):
Our show today was produced by will read edited by Matthew Collette engineered by Christian nyala and fact checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Sean Ramez for him and it's time for our quiz. Ian, can you hear me? Yep. I can hear you. Do you have any idea why I'm calling you?

14 (25m 45s):
I don't know why you're calling me.

4 (25m 47s):
Okay. You mentioned earlier in the show that there would be a quiz at the end of the episode. This is the quiz. Oh, no, I'm sorry. I'm sorry to do this to you, but how are Paul Ryan judge Jackson related?

14 (26m 2s):
God, I'd have to look at my dose. It's like someone has a twin brother who's married to blood. Don't ask you to pass my own quiz. That's not bad.

4 (26m 12s):
I'm going to give you partial credit. Wife's sister's husband's brother's wife.

14 (26m 18s):
Yeah. You know, I mean, one thing I will say for judge Jackson, it is a tribute to her ability to maintain relationships in this town that she had managed to work. Paul Ryan into her, those despite the very it's related to

4 (26m 34s):
Yeah. Another acceptable answer would have been basically perfect. Strangers.

14 (26m 39s):
Yeah.

4 (26m 41s):
Thank you.

14 (26m 41s):
And I thank you.

1 (26m 57s):
Support for this episode comes from ad yet. Andy is the payments platform may for today, tomorrow, and whatever comes next with Andy and single solution, it's simple to accept all kinds of payments in app, online in store touch-free and beyond, and it seamlessly adapts with your business. So keep your customers happy and your business growing with ad yet business, not boundaries, visit <em></em> dot com to learn more. That's a D Y E n.com.