1 (2s):
I was pretty young, but I remember just being on the ranch in the house and the wildfires burned like 70 miles of pine lines.

2 (11s):
That's 22 year old. Ricky held testifying in court in Helena Montana earlier this week. Yeah, she's talking about the 2012 Ash Creek wildfire that put her family's ranch in a very precarious position. Yeah, it's

1 (24s):
Stressful. I'm just

2 (25s):
Kinda, Ricky and 15 other young people are suing Montana, claiming their home state prioritized its pro fossil fuel policies over ensuring a clean environment, which is certainly a thing that's done in many states. But Montana's Constitution written in 1972 enshrines the right to a healthy environment for residents. And so a trial will unfold over the next two weeks. Coming up on today explained, we're gonna hear from a plaintiff and ask, could the first trial of its kind in history lead to many more?

3 (1m 1s):
I'm so sorry ma'am. I know you need this medicine, but it looks like it's not covered by your insurance.

4 (1m 7s):
Yeah, unfortunately I had to deny that one.

5 (1m 11s):
Wait, who are you?

4 (1m 12s):
I'm your insurance company's pharmacy benefit manager. I get paid based on the price of a medicine and I don't make as much money off this one.

5 (1m 20s):
No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

6 (1m 31s):
You hear it all the time. The youth will solve this. The youth are the solution. They will be the change makers

7 (1m 38s):
Next week. An unusual climate case is going to trial in Montana led by kids.

6 (1m 44s):
That is a lot of pressure when you are 14 or 16 as I was getting involved in this case, to hear that you are the ones that they are relying on for the future.

7 (1m 54s):
Can the state's Constitution be used to force action on climate change? I'm Jonquilyn Hill and that's next time On the weeds. New episodes drop every Wednesday.

2 (2m 12s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. This is a gutsy lawsuit, this Montana lawsuit. And of course that made us wonder what the youths involved are thinking. Exactly. So we're starting today with an interview that my colleague Ly Hill conducted. John Lin or JQ is the host of the Vox podcast. The weeds and the weeds has been in the weeds of this trial.

7 (2m 33s):
Yeah. So 16 young people are suing the state of Montana in this case that's known as Held v Montana. Ricky held is one of the 16 plaintiffs and you know, it's a wide age range. It's people that are from elementary school aged all the way up to their twenties and they're suing the state based on this clause in the state Constitution that says that Montanans have the constitutional right to a clean and healthy environment. Okay,

2 (3m 5s):
So the kids are like, the Constitution guarantees us this thing, but the state has pursued policies that hurt the climate. Tell me about the plaintiff you interviewed Grace Gibson Snyder. So

7 (3m 16s):
Grace is 19 years old. She's from Missoula, Montana, Montana. And when you talk to her, it is so obvious how in love she is with her home state.

6 (3m 26s):
I'm sure a lot of people think their states are special, but I am very partial to my own.

7 (3m 31s):
She'll tell you that her favorite things are, you know, floating on the river, hanging out with friends, going on hikes.

6 (3m 39s):
What I always say about Montana is you can always get to a hike no matter where you are within 10 minutes driving, usually way less.

7 (3m 48s):
And so the state and its natural beauty is something that's really, really important to her.

6 (3m 55s):
Underlying everyone's life in Montana is an appreciation for, and maybe even more importantly, it depends upon the natural environment. So many people subsist upon agriculture and ranching. And so there is this super deep generational cultural connection to the outdoors, to a depth and an intensity that I haven't yet found anywhere else.

7 (4m 23s):
She's been involved in climate change activism since she was in high school. She tells this really fascinating story about when she first realized climate change was a thing and It was back when she was a high school student.

6 (4m 39s):
I remember my freshman year of high school, I was on the soccer team. We have summer practices. And so it was August and the wildfire smoke from the fires across Montana and across the west settles into the Missoula Valley. The smoke was so dense that certainly the kids on the team with asthma could not play at all. And then for the rest of us it was uncomfortable. It feels like it's scratching your throat and your lungs

8 (5m 5s):
We're all in agreement. This summer's fire smoke was among the worst in decades with Missoula County surrounded by fires burning hundreds of thousands of acres. And now the first results of a report by the Montana Department of Health and Human Services is confirming the smoke was making a lot of people sick enough to send them to the hospital.

6 (5m 21s):
And so we would move our practices inside into the gym, but then the gyms would fill with smoke if we opened the doors to let the heat out. You know, I I was aware because of school, because of news, et cetera, of the ties between increasing wildfires and that the, the severity of the wildfires and climate change. And so that was the first time I was like super aware of the impacts of climate change on my own life. And then the last little anecdote where I really realized the intensity of climate change was during go to Berg's speech to the un, this

9 (5m 57s):
Is all wrong. I shouldn't be up here, I should be back in school.

6 (6m 4s):
And at this point I'd already been involved with climate work for a couple years, but it was all pretty local. And her phrase the how dare you, how

9 (6m 14s):
Dare you

6 (6m 15s):
Encapsulated the, the emotional piece of climate change in a way that I'd never felt before. The rage and the fear and the loss that comes with that in addition to the just the injustice and that word injustice is so central to what I feel about climate change. It becomes so unfair that we are now the ones who have to do the work to protect our own lives.

7 (6m 49s):
So your plaintiff in the case Held v Montana and in your words, what is that case about?

6 (6m 59s):
The case is to ensure that the Montana state government's actions do not violate our right to a clean and healthful environment. So we have an explicit right in our Constitution to a clean and health environment in Montana and the state's actions of promoting fossil fuels, both explicitly in policy as well as implicitly with all the, all the ways that they have developed the, the industry and through permitting, et cetera, have led to consistent and and increasing carbon emissions from, from the fossil fuel industry. And the climate impacts then of all of these things affect Montana citizens as well as the Montana landscape.

6 (7m 46s):
And so the impacts of these on youth are particularly strong, partly because we are more susceptible to, to the health risks of climate change as well as the fact that we will be suffering longer from all of these things. And so our case is bringing this to attention so that the state of Montana can bring its actions back in line with the Constitution and hopefully seizes this opportunity to become leaders in a, in a renewable energy.

7 (8m 15s):
So you've spent about the past three years of your life involved in this and you know, I think back to when I was your age and my friends too and there were so many changes we wanted to make in the world, but it seems like you and these other plaintiffs are actually taking active steps in order to do that. What's it been like, you know, spending all these years, all this time working on this,

6 (8m 49s):
It's really up and down. I am super grateful to be a part of this community even more than just, you know, the immediate community involved in this case. But this experience has also been incredibly frustrating. Hmm. And repeatedly. So how, in what way the state government in responding to our case has been consistently reluctant to hear what we're trying to say to allow this case to move forward, to make any sort of meaningful change on a little bit of a larger scale. To be a youth involved in, in climate work is also a very mixed bag.

6 (9m 28s):
I mean there's so much change happening and yet I have other things I would rather be doing. I mean there's so much I'd love to do and I took for example, a philosophy class for the first time this year and I discovered that I really love philosophy. I would love to spend my life thinking about things, but I have this sense of obligation to work in protecting the world, protecting other people and protecting myself and my own future. I don't see how I could choose anything else when there's so much at stake in addition to the kind of public contribution to this, which is that there's two sides, right?

6 (10m 10s):
There's one side, the very supportive side and I are the people who support our case, the people who support youth movements, the people who just believe in climate change and want it to change are an incredible community. And there is also a lot of pressure from them. You hear it all the time. The youth will solve this, the youth are the solution, they will be the change makers. That is a lot of pressure when you are 14 or 16 as I was getting involved in this case to hear that you are the ones that they are relying on for the future. And so I think that's creates a really intense mix of emotions and experiences that a lot of people in this type of kind of youth climate work that we experience on a regular basis.

6 (10m 59s):
I know there's so much obviously technical and logistical challenges to the clean energy transition. I understand that I'm not asking for a change tomorrow either in Montana or federally or what, whatever level it may be. I know fossil fuels are not going to disappear tomorrow, but I'm asking, we are asking that the legislature or the government take this opportunity to become leaders in clean energy to shift our focus, to make a choice that will become equally lucrative, equally economically viable and that there's just a choice that has to be made here.

6 (11m 40s):
And I, I wish they understood that this was what is shown to be that best decision.

2 (11m 49s):
Jq, thank you for bringing us that interview with Grace. It was really telling to hear her say you old heads think that young people are the future and are gonna get things done. But if you're 19 years old, being told that the future is all on you is a very frustrating position to be put in. Yeah,

7 (12m 7s):
I thought that was so interesting. I mean you hear the rhetoric all the time, the kids are all right, the children are the future, especially when they mobilize around these big policy issues, but listening to grace. Yeah, that's a lot of pressure. And you know, as nerdy as some of us might have been at 19, we weren't necessarily spending our freshman year of college suing our state government over climate change. It's a lot of pressure for these kids.

2 (12m 44s):
JQ Hills Vox podcast is called The Weeds. It's a show about the personal ramifications of policy decisions and It is a very good place to nerd out. If you're interested coming up after the break, a Northwest Montana based reporter tells us how the trial's going so far and we're going to ask him whether other kids are gonna try something like this.

3 (13m 18s):
I'm so sorry ma'am. I know you need this medicine, but it looks like it's not covered by your insurance.

4 (13m 24s):
Yeah, unfortunately I had to deny that one.

5 (13m 27s):
Wait, who are you?

4 (13m 29s):
I'm your insurance company's pharmacy benefit manager. I get paid based on the price of a medicine and I don't make as much money off this one.

5 (13m 37s):
No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

2 (13m 50s):
It's today explained. Micah Drew is a staff reporter at the Flathead Beacon. It's a newspaper in Northwest Montana. He's been covering Held v Montana, which started on Monday. Yeah,

10 (14m 0s):
So Monday we had opening statements by both sides.

11 (14m 4s):
Restoring climate instability will take time, your Honor, but every ton of CO2 we keep out of the air matters.

10 (14m 12s):
We saw the lawyers for the plaintiffs lay out kind of a pretty broad overview of how they expect the trial to go, the witnesses they expect to call the science, they expect to go through the plaintiffs and their stories that we'll hear from throughout the week. And then on the other side, for the state, they laid out a pretty different version of this trial. One that's very cut and dry. They called it a very boring lawsuit that's just about a, a single statute that's no longer on the books. So we saw two very different ideas of how this is supposed to play out over two weeks. And then we did get our first witnesses. We heard from five different people, three of the youth plaintiffs spoke as well as scientists, Dr.

10 (14m 55s):
Steven Runnning, a noted climate researcher, and then May Nan Ellingson, who's one of the authors of the Montana Constitution.

2 (15m 3s):
The reason these young people were able to sue the state is that Montana's Constitution enshrines the right of residents to a clean and helpful environment. How did that end up in the state Constitution?

10 (15m 14s):
It's really interesting. We got to hear firsthand from the person who was influential and, and really essential in getting that to happen. Mayn Anne Ellington, she was the youngest delegate to our 1972 constitutional convention where the Constitution of Montana was rewritten.

12 (15m 31s):
Mr. Peacock, it seems to me that in the Bill of Rights, the Constitution of the United States, there are quite a few metaphysical things such as liberty in the pursuit of happiness.

13 (15m 43s):
Liberty means personal liberty and that has a rather clear meaning, certainly much more clearer than a high quality environment.

12 (15m 54s):
I would suggest that what is liberty to one person is not necessarily liberty to another.

10 (16m 1s):
And she, along with a couple other delegates, really wanted to make sure that Montana's environment was protected. We had a long history in the state of heavy extraction industries, coal mining and, and other things that kind of left the environment a little degraded. And they wanted to make sure that that stopped and and ideally got better. So there's two places in the Constitution that we see this clean and healthful environment language. One section, the Constitution directs the state and all people to maintain and improve that environment. And then it's also listed as one of our inalienable rights in the Bill of Rights. Is

2 (16m 39s):
This an unusual thing to see in a state's Constitution is Montana odd?

10 (16m 44s):
It's pretty unusual. I would say there's only a handful of states that have similar provisions that are this strong. I'd say more states will, they'll mention the Constitution or they'll mention, you know, the, the right of its citizens to recreate. But we have a very, very strong protection, I mean directing the state and everybody to maintain and improve the environment. It's a pretty direct line there. The Pennsylvania Constitution, which was adopted a a year before Montana's in 1971, has a very similar provision as does Hawaii. And it's interesting, there's a similar youth-led lawsuit in Hawaii that's gonna go to trial in a couple of months and they're using the same kind of legal framework.

15 (17m 28s):
We keep fighting so that the next generation won't have to fight as hard, but it keeps getting harder.

10 (17m 33s):
But across the nation there's also a movement modeled on Pennsylvania and Hawaii to add in amendments to state constitutions. They're known as as green amendments. They've seen some success there in New York in 2021, they successfully added language protecting the environment into their Constitution.

2 (17m 53s):
So these young plaintiffs say that the Constitution promises them a clean environment, but the state, because it has pursued and continues to pursue the production of coal and natural gas is breaking the promise to them. Is that essentially what this is about?

10 (18m 9s):
Yeah, in its essence, they decided to specifically go after two laws in Montana. One of 'em is the state energy policy, which was basically this overall list of goals on how the state should move forward with energy production. And a couple of those goals specifically included expanding the fossil fuel industry. And I speak about that in the past tense because a couple months ago, the legislature repealed the entire law.

16 (18m 37s):
The section of Montana code that would be cut has been called toothless by supporters of this bill who say the GM Forte administration should be able to work with a clean slate.

10 (18m 49s):
And subsequently we saw the lawyers for the state in this case try to dismiss all of the claims based on that since the law was no longer on the books and they were successful. So we are moving forward in the trial with a pretty narrowed scope compared to where we started. And so the second part of this that we'll be hearing about is a law known as the Montana Environmental Policy Act. We call it mepa. And there's a provision to mepa where the state, when it conducts environmental reviews for, you know, projects or, or new buildings or new coal mine, they are instructed not to consider climate change or greenhouse gases. The legislature, at the very end of our legislative session this spring, they completely rewrote the section of law that is at the heart of this case to specifically say you can't consider climate change inside Montana or outside in a, in an environmental review.

17 (19m 43s):
The bill blocks the State Department of Environmental quality from analyzing the impacts of greenhouse gases when reviewing a project. Supporters say this will reign in what they consider to be judicial activism. Opponents worry about the environmental consequences of blocking public input.

10 (19m 59s):
So even though the language is completely different and the state thinks that that was a reason to dismiss the case, the judge and our Supreme court decided that it was, in essence, the the arguments are still the same. So that's one area that they've been arguing. And then the other is gonna be that Montana not being a, a very large presence on the global scale. Even if we went cold Turkey on fossil fuels tomorrow, the state argues that that wouldn't make enough of an impact globally and, and on the global climate that they shouldn't be, you know, penalized essentially for the decisions they're currently making.

2 (20m 38s):
What happens if the plaintiffs win,

10 (20m 42s):
If they win, the complaint that they ask for is the declaration of this specific mepa climate change exception to be declared unconstitutional. So what we'd see, you know, in terms of the laws is we would have one law removed, taken off the books, but, and the state is arguing this, they don't believe that the judge has much more authority than that.

2 (21m 4s):
Even if the plaintiffs win, the judge isn't gonna say the state of Montana has to stop producing coal and natural gas. Exactly.

10 (21m 11s):
She could maybe say that you can't have laws that, you know, make sure that you ignore climate change or anything like that. But fundamentally the judgment in this case will not change Montana's fossil fuel economy.

2 (21m 24s):
How do the plaintiffs feel about that?

10 (21m 26s):
I think that one of the biggest things, and and we heard this a little bit on the stand, is no matter what if, if there's a ruling in the plaintiff's win, that is still a, a monumental judgment to come down from a court. and It will be likely a big enough decision that there's a chance that either the legislature could decide to voluntarily take action or it will lead to a cascade of, of future suits that will probably get more specific and more specific. And this will be an ongoing fight, but is would really be the first brick in this kind of foundation where we see these fights against climate change in the court system.

2 (22m 3s):
What do you hear when you're out knocking doors? Do the residents of Montana support these young people? Do they think this is nonsense? Where do people stand?

10 (22m 12s):
I would say both of those ring very true. I think a lot of people in this state don't understand why this is happening. A lot of people think that the money being used for, for the courts to fight this and the state to fight this could be better used elsewhere. But there's also a lot of people that, you know, understand Montana's environment is a key resource and really wanna make sure that that is maintained and improved as was promised. And we actually do see here in Helena, when the plaintiffs walked in on Monday, there were people lining up outside the courthouse with signs, got

2 (22m 49s):
This guys, we love you.

10 (22m 52s):
There's rallies planned, I think every single day after the trial by climate groups and different environmental groups. So there's certainly support and certainly on the ground we see a lot of support. I mean, we are a relatively conservative state. We have a Republican super majority that's been passing some of these fossil fuel laws. And so I'd say across the board there's certainly people on both sides who, who would argue both ways.

2 (23m 22s):
You said we've seen similar lawsuits in Pennsylvania and Hawaii. Montana makes three. Do you think we could see more of these types of lawsuits in other states or maybe even a lawsuit at the federal level?

10 (23m 34s):
Well, yeah, actually we, we have seen all of that. There's a law firm, a non-profit law firm out of Oregon called Our Children's Trust. They have actually brought legal actions and, and lawsuits in all 50 states that have these youth plaintiffs. And, and their idea is that these youths can't vote, they can't do much action, but they have a, a route through the courts to argue for their future. And so they filed all 50 states. They also have filed a federal case, Juliana versus the United States that almost went to trial and, and was stopped about two years ago. But a month ago a federal judge ruled that that case can start moving forward again and moving towards trial.

10 (24m 14s):
So we'll really be watching to see if this has an effect on any of the other actions that have been filed.

2 (24m 24s):
That was Micah Drew from the Flathead Beacon in stunningly beautiful northwest Montana. Today's show was produced by Avishay Artsy and edited by Amina Al Sadi. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Michael Rayfield. Thank you so much to the fantastic team over at the weeds, Sofi LaLonde Christian Ayala, ASU Am Hall and Jq Hill. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.