0 (1s):
Jonathan Guyer. You were the first person I thought of when I heard that Henry Kissinger died. Is

1 (6s):
That a compliment? Sean

0 (8s):
Don? Don't know if it's a compliment. I you spend an inordinate amount of time for a reporter in 2023 thinking and writing about Henry Kissinger. What is that? Like a, like a fixation.

1 (19s):
It might look like that from the outside. I have, you know, seen him speak or attend events with him 3, 4, 5 times the last six months. but it turns out the world is fixated with Henry Kissinger. He's been celebrated by Biden's cabinet Xi Jinping through a four hour banquet for him in September, Kissinger met with Zelensky. He met with Netanyahu, basically to try to understand why is Washington Wall Street so many world leaders fixated with Henry Kissinger, a man who was a hundred years old,

0 (55s):
That's Coming up On today. Explained

Atlassian (1m 1s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian. Atlassian software like Jira, confluence, and Trello help power global collaboration for all teams so they can accomplish everything that's impossible alone, because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. No matter if you're a team of two, 200 or 2 million Atlassian software keeps everyone connected and moving together as one towards shared company goals. Learn how to unleash the potential of your team@atlassian.com. That's A-T-L-A-S-S-I-A n.com Atlassian.

NPR (1m 41s):
This message comes from NPR sponsor Frick Madison, the temporary home of the Frick Collection for a limited time experience masterpieces from the Renaissance to the early 20th century reframed in the iconic Broyer building on New York's Upper East Side. Explore the special exhibition Bellini and GI in the house of today. O Canarini Frick Madison, classic art Modern setting. Open Thursday through Sunday, 10:00 AM to 6:00 PM reserve tickets@frick.org.

0 (2m 15s):
Today explained Sean Rames room here with Jonathan Guyer, senior foreign policy writer at Vox Jonathan. How does Henry Kissinger become Henry Kissinger?

1 (2m 24s):
First of all, there's so much depth to this man's story. I, I think he's so tied up with a, a legacy of Vietnam and war, but we really have to start a lot earlier. Born in, you know, a hundred years ago, 1923, born in Germany, comes to America as an immigrant. It's sort of an amazing Jewish immigrant story. Goes back to fighting in World War ii, you know, is an intelligence officer has some role in, in liberating the camps and sort of is on the front lines of American power, so to speak, from the very earliest moments of his career.

0 (2m 59s):
And what does he do when he gets back to the United States?

1 (3m 2s):
So he, you know, it's 1957, he's got those signature plastic glasses that he becomes, you know, kind of known for his whole life. Young Jewish professor at Harvard, at a time where there's not a lot of, you know, Jewish people at that kind of high level of academia. And he kind of picks apart, which was kind of the major doctrine of, of nuclear strategy at the time that Eisenhower was putting forward. He picks apart what's called massive retaliation, and he argues for something called limited nuclear war, which is that you can kind of win a little nuclear war using smaller nuclear weapons.

1 (3m 43s):
These weren't called tactical nuclear weapons at the time, but that was kind of, you know, where he made his name was nuclear strategy. You know, being an early pioneer in this field, this is the moment where Henry Kissinger ends up defining some of the strategies that about 10 years later he's implementing within the White House.

0 (4m 6s):
When does he finally become Secretary of state? And then give us some idea of how he focuses his energy

1 (4m 14s):
Within the Watergate scandal. Obviously a lot of the Nixon administration is implicated, and Bill Rogers, the Secretary of state, was a really good friend of Nixon's, ends up resigning within the tumult of Watergate.

5 (4m 29s):
I know all of you will want to hear from the new Secretary of state speaking for the first time in that capacity. There is no country in the world where it is conceivable that a man of my origins could be standing here next to the President of the United States.

1 (4m 47s):
And what Kissinger becomes, which is I think unique in US history, is he serves as both Secretary of state and national security advisor, kind of the closest advisor to Nixon. And

0 (4m 59s):
I believe that had never been done before that exactly. One person had held both of those titles.

1 (5m 2s):
Exactly. So it, it, and don don't, I don't think anyone's done it since. Just kind of shows the tremendous amount of energy that this gentleman had. And what he does with that, you know, is it's a really complicated, huge ledger sheet. I mean, I think when you talk to strategists and defense experts, they will emphasize the opening up with China. You have to imagine China in the sixties and early seventies is even more closed than North Korea is today. I mean, this is a country that the US really did not have any connection with any diplomatic relations, as far as I understand, and economically next to nothing.

1 (5m 42s):
And, you know, Henry Kissinger together with Nixon is the architect of this new policy, this opening up to China.

6 (5m 50s):
I have undertaken initiatives in several areas to open the door for more normal relations between our two countries. In pursuance of that goal, I sent Dr. Kissinger, my assistant for National Security Affairs to P King during his recent world tour for the purpose of having talks with Premier Choan Lai

1 (6m 15s):
And just, I I should say, you know, the strategy here was Cold War, pretty dangerous time for the us The idea is you could pull away Russia from China, these two communist powers, and if the US could, you know, develop a friendly relationship with China, it would in effect weaken Russia's power in the world. Literally a really similar conversation to what we're having today.

0 (6m 38s):
At some point in here, I think he wins a Nobel Peace prize. I think Gallup ranks him America's most admired man. What is going on with Henry Kissinger? Well,

1 (6m 48s):
I, he does this kind of amazing thing that you can't really do in 2023, which is, you know, shuttle diplomacy. He spends a lot of time on planes and he's able to kind of show up in countries and, and lay the groundwork for this opening with China able to do all this kind of back channeling in the Middle East. There's this surprise Arab War on Israel in 1973,

7 (7m 10s):
Secretary Kissinger had planned to spend a quiet private weekend in New York, Secretary, but the Middle East crisis forced him to rush back to Washington. He spoke briefly with newsmen as he left.

8 (7m 20s):
We've told you everything that we can say. I'm in close touch with the president,

1 (7m 24s):
You know, complex legacy of a, a Middle East peace process is something Henry is also responsible for. But in that moment, he's putting pressure on the different parties. He's shuttling between Israel and, and and other Arab capitals. He's getting to know Anwar Sadat. He's dealing with some of the most towering kind of figures in, in the 20th century history. And he's kind of a player and, and he, because he has the confidence of, of Richard Nixon as a diplomat, he's able to kind of do things that some secretaries of state aren't, which is kind of, you know, truly be America's lawyer, America's representative on the world stage. So

0 (8m 3s):
The opening up of China might be something that he's, he's famous for. Tell me about some of the things he's infamous for

1 (8m 10s):
Sean. It's a very long list. I think most closely associated with the Vietnam War, even, you know, the peace movement at the time,

9 (8m 20s):
The whole

1 (8m 20s):
World watching in the late sixties, early seventies would be calling him out by name in protests in the United States. And, you know, it's, it's pretty tremendous and, and tragic the scale of the Vietnam War. It's, it's actually the Southeast Asia wars and Henry, Kissinger historians say, is responsible for expanding and prolonging those wars into Cambodia, into Lao with indiscriminate bombing as historians and journalists have documented. And some of those bombs, for example, in Cambodia, are still going off. So there's this kind of terrifying thing where his, his living legacy is this ongoing death.

10 (9m 4s):
The war may have ended here in Laos 40 plus years ago, but the casualties of war continue on places like this soccer field where some kids just two weeks ago found a little bomblet. They thought it was a ball, it took it home to play with it.

11 (9m 17s):
About 270 million were originally dropped of the cluster munitions. And an estimate of 80 million still remained on the land.

1 (9m 25s):
One part of Henry Kissinger's foreign policy legacy is sort of the overt participation in some of these wars. Another version of this is kind of giving a wink or a kind of tacit approval to something horrible And it. And I think that's what happens with the Kuer Rouge where, you know, he basically told them a, according to records, these are murderous thugs, but I'm not gonna stand in their way. Something that happened in other countries when generals took over Pakistan and East Timor, and then also with, you know, pinot, she in Chile and in Argentina, it's a record of not just doing things that historians call atrocities or war crimes, but kind of not using us power to, to stop war crimes as it were.

1 (10m 16s):
What

0 (10m 16s):
Is the overarching strategy, be it in, in Chile with pinot she or in carpet bombing Cambodia or in in Pakistan, in Bangladesh. What is he trying to do? So

1 (10m 25s):
I, I think in fairness to Henry Kissinger, what he would say and his supporters would say is this is realism. This is standing up for American interests in the world. And, and that means making some really messy, dirty decisions because what comes first are American interests. Now, I, I think that, you know, doesn't hold up based on my reporting. I think usually a human rights driven foreign policy can be a really good thing for American interests. But what we see in all these different contexts is Henry Kissinger kind of not thinking about people in these countries, not thinking about long-term effects, but thinking about what is good for America in the middle of this Cold War moment.

1 (11m 11s):
And so you do have some historians that say he navigated this stuff pretty well. This was a, a superpower crisis, a world on the verge of nuclear war. And, and other journalists and historians who say millions of dead, 2 million dead in Cambodia, a long list of countries throughout Latin America, Southeast Asia, south Asia that were subject to bombardment and coups and political violence that, you know, at the very least, Henry di Henry Kissinger didn't do anything about. And at the most he was a, a participant. And this is why, you know, Christopher Hitchens, you know, the kind of firebrand author wrote this famous book that was accusing Henrik Kissinger of war crimes.

1 (11m 56s):
And this has become almost a meme or a longstanding criticism that, you know, in all these different contexts, all these different countries from pinot she and Chile all the way to Southeast Asia, Henry Kissinger had a role in alleged war crimes,

12 (12m 14s):
Kissinger war crimes.

1 (12m 17s):
And it's, you know, something he was never really held accountable for. And, and I'm not saying by, you know, the criminal court, I'm saying in, in kind of seminars, in the kind of polite foreign policy circles in which I circulate, he's never really had to answer for this really dirty history that is front of mind to many people in the global south,

12 (12m 40s):
In the name of the Vietnam, in the name of the people of, you know what? In the name of the people of Cambodia, in the name

1 (13m 6s):
Fox Creative,

13 (13m 8s):
This is advertiser content from Eli Lilly and Company. There's a fair amount of stigma with Alzheimer's disease. Dr. Brandy Matthews is a neurologist in Alzheimer's disease expert at Lilly, and she sees a chance for this to change. I'm hopeful that we're now entering an era in which people will actively seek a timely and inaccurate Alzheimer's disease diagnosis. To make this future real, we have to start unlearning some of the things we thought we knew about Alzheimer's disease. Like one untruth that I encounter is that everyone will inevitably develop Alzheimer's disease because it's part of normal aging memory and thinking do change with age, much like eyesight and hearing.

13 (13m 52s):
However, these changes are relatively subtle and restricted, mostly to speed of thinking or processing information and naming of specific items when changes become observable to others or begin to interfere with typical activities as a red flag myth tooth. If I'm diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, there's not much I can do. Diagnosis that's timely in a patient's disease course may also have an impact on the progression of the disease. If the intervention happens early knowledge is power and acting early matters.

13 (14m 35s):
If, you are noticing memory and thinking issues piling up. Go to more than normal aging.com to learn more.

SimpliSafe (14m 44s):
Support for today, explain comes from SimpliSafe. Whether you're out at holiday parties, traveling to see family, or just out running an errand, you don't want someone else sitting on your couch. You want peace of mind that you don't have a home intruder. And that's where SimpliSafe comes in. They wanna get you that peace of mind for 50% off. According to SimpliSafe, they provide a comprehensive protection system for your entire home with advanced sensors that detect not only break-ins, but home disasters like fires and floods. Plus their new 24 7 live guard protection comes with a smart alarm wellness indoor camera that lets monitoring agents see and speak to intruders, deterring them in real time while agents call for help. It's kind of like Santa he's watching. He knows whether you've been naughty or nice. That's like the smart alarm wellness indoor camera people. Anyway, for a limited time, listeners can get a special 50% off any SimpliSafe system with a fast protect plan. You can visit SimpliSafe dot com slash today, explained that SimpliSafe dot com slash today explained. There's no safe, like SimpliSafe

Atlassian (15m 54s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian. Atlassian software like Jira, confluence, and Trello help power the collaboration for teams to accomplish what would otherwise be impossible alone. Because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. That's why millions of teams around the world, including 75% of the Fortune 500 trust Atlassian software for everything from space exploration and green energy to delivering pizzas and podcasts, whether you're a team of two, 200 or 2 million, or whether your team is around the corner or on another continent altogether, Atlassian software is built to help keep you all on the same page from start to finish. That way every one of your teams from engineering And it to marketing, HR, and legal can stay connected and moving together as one towards shared company-wide goals. Learn how to unleash the potential of your team@atlassian.com. That's A-T-L-A-S-S-I-A n.com. Atlassian,

2 (16m 56s):
Who the hell are, are

14 (16m 57s):
You Inger, Dr. And Mike Inger. And this

0 (17m 2s):
Is today Explained is back with Jonathan Guyer, who is a senior Kissinger correspondent at Vox Jonathan. Henry Kissinger does not go away after the White House. Instead he becomes, I think, maybe one of the most successful influencers of all time.

1 (17m 17s):
I think Henry Kissinger in the last 50 years of his career, you know, from the eighties onward is as important as when he was in the White House and at the State Department. So the first thing he does is he starts Kissinger Associates. And this is his consulting firm. And this is one of the first times that, you know, kind of senior states person diplomat essentially sells out and decides that he is gonna serve as a fixer essentially to companies like Coca-Cola defense contractors, big banks, financial institutions. He's going to use all those contacts and expertise and that kind of revolving door power that he had gained in the sixties and seventies to help corporations make money in places like China, where, you know, he was very much associated with the opening up he was gonna profit from it.

1 (18m 15s):
And it's, it's sort of, i I dare to say funny that he was most known for his really large fees. $250,000 I think was the retainer according to like a New York Times report from the eighties. A huge amount of money at the time. And so what what Henry Kissinger does is he pioneers what's called strategic consulting, that he is gonna be a kind of on-call think tank diplomat for the world's biggest corporate titans, solve their problems or at least take their phone calls when, when they want to talk to Henry Kissinger and, and just get paid tremendously handsomely for that.

0 (18m 52s):
And he does this into his second century of life,

1 (18m 56s):
Right? And he's been having a lot of hundredth birthday parties this year. Several times that I've heard him get sung Happy birthday

0 (19m 3s):
Because you were invited to these birthday parties.

1 (19m 6s):
Well, let's say I was more of a party crasher, but I, I saw one line in Secretary of state Tony Blinken schedule that he was going to Henry Kissinger's birthday party in New York, not open to the press, but you know, you can't really close press outside the New York Public Library where this was being held. So I thought, hey, it is a good shtick. I'll show up, I'll see who's on the red carpet for Henry Kissinger, Mr. Secretary. Jonathan Guyer with Vox. What is there to celebrate about Henry? Kissinger And. it wasn't just Tony Blinken, it was CIA director, bill Burns, Samantha Power, Robert Kraft, who owns the Patriots. Mike Bloomberg.

1 (19m 47s):
Jim Baker, who's another former Secretary of state who's, you know, into his nineties. And just a ton of a-listers. I was sort of surrounded by Bentleys and limos and really beefy security guards and just watching the kind of foreign policy celebrities in action nerd prom. but it wasn't just that Sean, it kept going. There have been birthday celebrations for him basically up until the day he died. It's, it's sort of a remarkable feat. The amount of birthday, I mean the Pentagon gave him a birthday cake. The New York Economic Club sang him happy birthday. And then at, I was at the Al Smith Dinner, this very famous Catholic fundraiser, elite affair in New York.

1 (20m 30s):
And they also sang him Happy Birthday last month, happy

15 (20m 34s):
Birthday, doctor Kissinger, happy birthday to you.

1 (20m 44s):
So when I saw Henry Kissinger at this Al Smith dinner, he was coming from a meeting with Xi Jinping in China. Xi had hosted a four hour banquet for him earlier in the year. I mean, he's just regularly meeting with world leaders, Netanyahu and Zelensky. He was at this banquet for Modi, the Indian Prime Minister over the summer at the State Department. It's just sort of everywhere I looked my Google alert was blowing up. And you know, as one banker said this, this guy Henry Kissinger at a hundred has had a more robust social calendar than a whole lot of us. I mean, basically took up a lot of my past six months just attending lectures, conferences, and, and birthday parties.

0 (21m 27s):
And what did you learn Jonathan at at these lectures, conferences, birthday parties, functions that you were not invited to about why the world still wants to celebrate and revere Henry Kissinger? So

1 (21m 40s):
First of all, I, I think it's important to say that he still wielded power until the day he died. It wasn't like just history incarnate, it wasn't just a throwback. His proteges were in power, his networks, he still served on an influential Pentagon advisory board. He was very much, you know, well through this year, connected and influencing policies on, on Russia and China to a great degree. But I think the more interesting thing I learned is, and I called up Larry Summers and interviewed other people who are at these birthday parties. No one wants to talk about the alleged war crimes. No one wants to talk about the dark underbelly.

1 (22m 22s):
No one wants to talk about what Henry Kissinger represented in terms of American Empire and sort of what violence and war can do to a country. They just want to focus on the kind of diplomacy as a fun hobby as, as far as I could tell.

0 (22m 39s):
How come? I mean, you've got allegations of war criminal, you've got receipts, you know, but it sounds like this guy's basically like the Paris Hilton of foreign policy. You would think Tony Blinken and Larry Summers and Samantha Power would want to stay as far away as possible from Kissinger's messy legacy. I think President Obama has spoken to that. How much time he spent trying to clean up after Henry Kissinger. Well,

1 (23m 5s):
And I think Bernie Sanders probably said it best, you know, in one of the debates with Hillary Clinton where he said, I

16 (23m 12s):
Am proud to say that Henry Kissinger is not my friend. I will not take advice from Henry Kissinger.

1 (23m 20s):
I think that was an iconic moment because even after he left office in this past 50 years, he somehow is still beloved. In part because, you know, some of the smart strategic policies, which we could debate over China, Russia, arms control, and in part just because I think Americans love power, people like to be close to it. And that's what he represented, I think to New York. Why 850 people would show up to a gala that costs $5,000 a head. Henry's very famous for saying, you know, power is, is the ultimate aphrodisiac. And I, and I think we saw this playing out with the kind of throngs of lawyers and investors and bankers and former policy makers and current opinion shapers lining up to see him.

1 (24m 8s):
He keyed three events in October, three weeks in a row. So I kind of had my Thursdays with Henry seeing him speak at length and you know, he was lucid, he was on And. it was sort of fascinating to see this preview of the gerontocracy. You know, obviously America's leaders and politicians are getting older into their eighties and nineties and I think this was a bit of a preview, watching Henry at a hundred hold court at a think tank as recently as last month.

0 (24m 39s):
What did he have to say at all your Thursdays with Henry? Did he, did he still have super pressing, compelling, cogent things to say about America's place in the world?

1 (24m 52s):
I mean it, in my humble estimation, it was a little basic. I mean, he was said the, the biggest threats to the world or Russia, China, artificial intelligence And it, it was a very pessimistic tone about these dangers.

17 (25m 7s):
We cannot afford a divided nation in a world in which nuclear power, it matched by the growth of artificial intelligence.

1 (25m 23s):
What I didn't hear from Henry Kissinger in, in all these keynotes that I attended and speeches was, I didn't hear the answer. I mean, it's sort of this thing where you have Israel, reportedly, indiscriminately bombing Gaza And. it seems really familiar if you're looking into Henry Kissinger's history of what Lao and Cambodia experienced. And it's almost like I wanted Henry to have an answer of here's how we crack the nut that is Israel Palestine in the Middle East. Here's how we solve these ongoing geopolitical superpower wars that, you know, he'd had a hand in for almost his entire career. And he didn't have that.

0 (26m 5s):
You know, it, it seems like from a lot of your reporting that a lot of power players in us and even international politics wanted to be in the room with Henry Kissinger because Henry Kissinger was powerful. He had access, he had experience. We live in the world that he helped shape. Now that he's gone, do you think people will remember him differently?

1 (26m 34s):
I doubt it. I mean, I did try to ask him, by the way, about Pinoche in, in Lao in Cambodia. You know, he didn't comment, he didn't respond. His, his handlers kind of shooed me away when I, when I tried to ask about that last month. But I think the bigger picture thing is Henry Kissinger was literally advising the Biden administration up until recently he was on this advisory board to the Pentagon. His proteges like Mike Bloomberg and Eric Schmidt, the former Google, CEO, are very important close connectors to Biden World. And Jake Sullivan, the national security advisor, you know, was on a study group with Henry, you know, between the Trump and Biden administrations.

1 (27m 22s):
I think his influence will endure and what he represents will endure, which is you can do things that are well documented, that are well understood, that are vastly more destructive than any policy before, and you're probably not gonna be held to account.

8 (27m 42s):
If I had to do it over again, I would do again, substantially the same way, which may make me unreconstructed and maybe one reason why I'm at peace with myself.