1 (1s):
This is that moment where the podcast you listen to regularly mentions the holidays, even though it's still early October but listen folks. We're in it together this holiday. You can give the gift of Hands-On learning with kiwi Co key because offering you the chance to get your first month for free check out kiwi co.com explained to learn more.

2 (25s):
So Sunday, there's a call between Turkish president recep erdogan and US President Donald Trump. This call ends up being the instigator of what turned out to be 24 hours of absolute Insanity erdowan. Basically says, Hey, I want my troops to go into Northern Syria. Then the White House put out a very late statement on Sunday night as I'm trying to go to sleep. And what we see is the White House say is like look the Turks are going to come into Northern Syria. We're going to remove our troops and everything's going to be great and the world goes nuts.

2 (1m 8s):
First thing Monday morning as there's widespread confusion about what the heck just happened you have even Republicans that are going after Trump for this decision and it's not, you know usual critic Mitt Romney. It's Lindsey Graham who's usually an advocate for both Trump and keeping Wars

1 (1m 25s):
going all that decision by the president has undone all the games. We bake thrown the region into further chaos or Ron is licking their chops. And if I'm an Isis fighter, I've got a second lease on life

2 (1m 38s):
and you even got Mitch McConnell

4 (1m 40s):
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said it withdrawal would be precipitous and quote increase the risk that Isis and other terrorist groups regroup house Speaker Nancy Pelosi called it quote a deeply disturbing

2 (1m 52s):
development. And so even after losing Democrats and Republicans it seemed if you listen to Pat Robertson that Trump had lost God himself saying that the

4 (2m 1s):
president of the United States is in danger of losing the Mandate of

2 (2m 5s):
Heaven and if you thought Trump couldn't They come back from losing God. He also lost his own Administration. Started with the Pentagon saying that this was a very small movement of some troops out of Northern Syria. Then you have a senior Administration official do a background call with reporters saying, oh the again very small operation. We do not support the Turkish invasion in Syria. And so when you know, all the cards are on the table at the end of the day when everyone's trying to figure out what this policy is, I think it's worth noting that Trump had even tweeted out would look like a retraction of his own government's policy and what he says is important.

2 (2m 48s):
As I have stated strongly before and just to reiterate if Turkey does anything that I in migrate and unmatched wisdom considered to be off-limits. I will totally destroy an obliterate the economy of turkey I've done before he put some parentheses they must with Europe and others watch over the captured Isis Fighters and families. The US has done far more than anyone could have ever expected including the capture of a hundred percent of the Isis caliphate. It is time now for others in the region some of great wealth to protect their own territory and then in all caps the USA is great.

1 (3m 23s):
Alex Ward you one of the hosts of the worldly podcast you report on defense for Vox. So there's a thousand troops in Syria 50 at the president is planning on moving the other 950 aren't going anywhere

2 (3m 36s):
as of now based on the administration's own comments. It does not look like it. They're just the 50 that you mentioned are being relocated to not get in the middle of a Turkish Kurdish

1 (3m 45s):
Crossfire and we think of Wars Crossfire we're thinking of hundreds. If not thousands of troops. Why are these 50 troops enough to lose the Mandate of Heaven? Why why is this enough to lose Trump's Republican base in his support in the Senate even so

2 (4m 4s):
one is what they feel is an abandonment of a major Ally. I don't think anyone would say that the u.s. Owed Syrian Kurds helping us fight against Isis for the past couple of years. The US has not owe them a perennial forever backing but they deserved a smart withdraw. All at least some sort of transition to help them secure themselves to make sure that nothing bad happen to them and that just kind of packing up and leaving is just an abandonment of friends and also just against sort of u.s. Values and code the other issue here is what could happen. It's worth noting that even though 50 even up to a hundred troops in Northeast.

2 (4m 44s):
Syria is not a lot they are effectively tripwire because if they are there then the Turks don't really move into that region. Because they worry about killing American troops or involving them

1 (4m 55s):
in the fight. This isn't the first time Trump signaled to Turkey or anyone else that he wants to get out of

2 (5m 1s):
Syria. So even back in December erdowan and Trump spoke. Everyone was like Hey, I want to take overs that part of Syria and troubles like, all right, we're all out all 2,000 troops. The time are gone. The Pentagon walked that back. So we have Trump who already wants to remove US troops from Syria completely and you have the Turks who for a long time have Threatened to move into Northern Syria in order to what it says wants to establish a safe zone between Syria and the Turkish border so far the US has been successful in holding them off. It seems now that either Trump is allowing them in or the truck faces said we're coming in no matter what and now the u.s. Is getting out of the

1 (5m 40s):
way. You mentioned the political backlash up top, but what about Trump's military staff? How do they feel about it?

2 (5m 47s):
From what we know so far they were blindsided by this decision you saw for example, Joe photo Tell the former General who was the leader of centcom which is the u.s. Organization that oversees military operations in the Middle East he came out and thought that this was a bit of a careless decision. Even Brett mcgurk who was the special Envoy for Isis and the Obama and Trump Administration and resigned over the December withdrawal. Also lambasted this move for a

4 (6m 12s):
president to make a major decision which involves matters of War and Peace immediately after a foreign leader call I think is almost historically unprecedented because there's no Rotation with the National Security team with military commanders and that is just unacceptable. If you're the Commander in Chief, this is the most solemn obligation for a president and what he did last night just through this entire policy process into disarray and left are people out there a totally

2 (6m 39s):
exposed and remember that former Secretary of Defense. Jim Mattis resigned last December over the similar move. So there's always been this kind of anger at this decision and the fact that it's yet again being done in a surprise fashion is of course must make US military folks just completely

1 (6m 56s):
insane have the Kurds in Syria responded at all publicly

2 (7m 1s):
in some instances. We've heard from Syrian Kurds that they feel stabbed in the back that they have been Betrayed at they were not made aware of this decision and I don't blame the Syrian Kurds again who have just been fighting with US troops to defeat Isis for so long to kind of go like why are you packing up and leaving and if you're going to you don't even really tell us like what's going on? I mean it Point there were US troops at outposts and then like the next day they just started to leave. It's not just like a symbolic leading. It's an actual abandonment.

1 (7m 33s):
How bad is this relationship between turkey and the Kurds in Northern Syria. It's pretty bad.

2 (7m 39s):
So at a 30,000 foot level you need to know that turkey and Kurds have been at each other's throats for so long. And so if you are erdowan you kind of have started to believe in the narrative is that basically all Kurds are

1 (7m 55s):
terrorists what comes next I mean, it feels like the president doesn't quite know what he's about to do

2 (8m 1s):
right. Now. Look if Turkey does what it people anticipate it will do it will start to kill us partners in the fight against Syria. Those are the Syrian Kurds if that happens, then Trump is already on record as are some of his allies in Congress to start sanctioning turkey in which case the us will have put itself. The middle of two allies that are fighting each other one of them being a NATO Ally the other one its main partner in the fight against Isis. So even though Trump is right and noting that the US has helped retake a hundred percent of the Isis caliphate that you know took over Iraq and Syria Isis is still around, you know, there are thousands of about 11,000 Isis detainees scattered around like 30 or so makeshift prisons in the country and they are guarded by our allies a Syrian Kurds.

2 (8m 60s):
Should they be moved right? And you could imagine that those 11,000 Isis Fighters Escape, perhaps joined the ranks again and start unleashing chaos in the region. There's just so much danger here people are worried. You know, why is everyone freaking out about 50 or so troops? But it does seem that those troops served as a tripwire to make sure that the situation didn't get worse. They put a lid on this, you know jar of Madness and the lid it seems has

1 (9m 29s):
come off. After Alex and I spoke Tuesday Morning turkey announced it would continue with its military operation in northeastern Syria in what looks like a direct response to President Trump. The vice president of Turkey said the country would not be quote controlled by threats the Associated Press reported today that turkey is amassing troops armored cars and tanks along its border with Syria.

1 (10m 12s):
If you're a kurd chances are you're feeling betrayed by the United States right now and it might feel like deja vu I'm Sean Rama's firm that's in a minute on today explained. We talked about Kimiko on the show every once in a while, but but not often enough to I talk about what these crates actually look like specifically there's a bunch of different crates for all of the different age groups out there. There's a panda crate for babies.

1 (10m 53s):
The Eureka crate for kids that are 14 and over each of these boxes comes in the mail with all the supplies you need for that months project plus detailed kid-friendly instructions. Here we go projects are available via these flexible monthly subscriptions or for individual purchase. You can find out more at kiwi co.com explained. I've given personally a kiwi go gift to a next-door neighbor who's around the age of six years old. He was a big fan. I talked to a slightly older young man named Desmond from time to time. He's a big fan and one time I gave a key we co-create to a grown person and you know what? He was kind of entertained by it to Kimiko talk.

1 (11m 34s):
I'm / explain check it out. A couple things you need to understand about the Kurt's there from Kurdistan, which is a region not a country the region spans Iran, Iraq turkey and Syria, it's got something like 30 million people with their own culture language and identity. The United States has called on these people for help several times and according to Bilal wahab who's a fellow at the Washington Institute for near East policy. The Kurds are used to being disappointed by the United

3 (12m 16s):
States. So the United States looked at Kurds as tools or as a variable in the relationship with these four countries were you outlined were the Kurds live? So for example, when I became classroom was your ex president in 1958 1963 and when he was not in compliance the United States armed the ongoing credit resistance against him and also eventually Supported a coup against

2 (12m 46s):
him the streets of ancient Baghdad become the scene of a short but decisive Revolution the tuples the pro communist government of Premier Abdel Karim Chasm a six-man military Junta seizes power on a holy day and within hours the premier who reportedly had executed 10,000 people gives himself shut

3 (13m 5s):
but when the new government started more compliance than they the United States stopped the a to the curse, not only that but also provided the Iraqi government with Napalm, which later were used to graze some of the Kurdish towns in the 70s Iraq was getting closer and closer to the Soviet orbit. So again, Nixon and Kissinger of the time armed the Kurdish resistance against the Iraqi government, then Shaw and Saddam were put together mediated by the United States and they agreed and with the agreement the United States and the Shah of Iran pulled off the support from the kadisha uprising and that Basically put an end to it and Kurds Define that as the first American betrayal of the curse, but that was also the first time that the United States clearly supported and use the Kurds as a tool of its foreign policy in the region.

1 (13m 58s):
And so it sounds like in that situation the Kurds may have felt betrayed. Why wasn't that the end of the

3 (14m 5s):
relationship because regardless of how the United States, you know treated the Kurds. It was always better than The way that Saddam Hussein for example treated them or the Turkish government to the Iranian government for that matter or or the Syrian government and against these dictatorships in these brutal regimes there was no recourse but some outside force Saddam Hussein wouldn't be fearing the Kurds, but he would fear you know, an international outbreak and that's why you know, whether they liked it or not. They The Cure's were always eager to let the world know of their suffering of their grievances get their messages across that was the only way Out in the 1980s.

3 (14m 46s):
If you don't go down that memory lane Saddam Hussein committed genocide against the Kurds, but at the time the United States didn't really pay much attention to that because Iraq was helping, you know, a u.s. Strategy in curbing Iranian influence and making sure the Iranian Islamic revolution doesn't spread. So the Curtis paid the price for that

1 (15m 6s):
and how does that change once Saddam Hussein invades Kuwait and we go to war in Iraq in the early 90s.

3 (15m 13s):
That was the moment when the fate of the Kurds somehow shifted dramatically, Saddam Hussein is genocide now that he's a bad guy and invaded Kuwait also became one of the reasons and justifications of why the United States went to war in 1991 against Saddam

4 (15m 33s):
Hussein while the world prayed for peace. Sodom prepared for war

3 (15m 39s):
and that opened the first window of opportunity for Iraqi Kurds to engage in self governance short of a government and a state with a trapping of currency and international recognition. But three provinces about 3 million at the time of Kurds were freed from Saddam Hussein is Rule and control because the United States and the United Nations provided a safe haven for the curves where Iraqi troops were not allowed to come into the college area. And then that experience has been you know nurtured times ignore the times and on and

1 (16m 14s):
off does the self governance that the Kurds established in Northern Iraq after Operation Desert Storm last into the next Iraq war the Iraq war of George HW Bush's

3 (16m 26s):
son. That's that's a good question with post 9/11 and Bush 43 the Kurdish question came back to the for As part of justification for why Saddam Hussein's regime must be toppled and that gave the Kurdistan region and the Kurdish peshmerga and elevated stature and position in u.s. Foreign policy and the post-invasion planning and the US make sure that the curse would be rewarded by having a seat at the table and The Cure's ever since I've been called an ally of the United States in its policy in Iraq and perhaps even though I the region and obviously this becomes more important during the war against Isis, right?

1 (17m 8s):
How exactly does the United States approach the Kurds in Syria in order to get them to help fight Isis.

3 (17m 15s):
Ironically. It's almost similar Syrian Kurds come to prominence not as part of a US strategy or a plan or or some contingency planning, but the Kurds of Syria the ypg the main arm the main fighting arm of the Syrian Kurds they prove Solves as good Fighters as resilient by defending the town of kobani when Isis attacked the city

1 (17m 44s):
for more than four months Syrian Kurdish and isil Fighters have faced off in an intensive Street to Street Building to building battle for kobani.

3 (17m 54s):
And while The Cure's were proving themselves, you know fears and effective Fighters the u.s. Effort at working with the free Syrian Army and training anti-assad at a forces was abysmal. It was a necessity and a policy shift at the time to work with the Kurds because on the one hand the US was still worth fatigued from Iraq President Obama was Keen of not starting another War. So boots of the ground was the taboo word around Washington DC. So looking for proxies looking for someone who is effective in fighting Isis The Cure's were the obvious Choice and the u.s.

3 (18m 38s):
Went with the Kurds Now What Did the u.s. Lose by doing this it lost turkey it completely angered Ankara because Ankara sees the ypg the leading fighting group in in Syrian Kurdistan as an offshoot. If not a subgroup of the pkk the pkk is a Turkish Kurdish group that's been fighting the Turkish military since 1984 and turkey considers them a terrorist group and the United States also designated. Pkk as a terrorist group and so did the European Union. So then how does the United States work with you know, the ypg which it needs to fight Isis without you know angering turkey that much and the answer that question is still Brewing as happened in the news of the past 24 hours.

3 (19m 30s):
You

1 (19m 30s):
said earlier that the Kurds keep coming back to the United States because there's always Someone in the region who will do them worse. Does that still stand after the past 24 hours of this back and forth with Donald Trump and and Republicans and his own Administration. Yes.

3 (19m 53s):
And that's why every time the u.s. Changes its position that little bit the Kurds jump back into the the arms of the of the United States because what is the alternative to the United States as far as the curse go? Well, it's a the Assad regime. So do you want to go with that regime that by the way has been killing its own citizens since 2011. The other alternative is Russia should the curse go and get protection from Russia. Well, they had protection from Russia because the town of Afrin was under the Russian sphere of influence and when the Turkish military wanted to invade our friend, what does Russia to said be my guest?

3 (20m 34s):
How about Iran?

1 (20m 35s):
Well, not

3 (20m 36s):
only is Iran helping the Assad regime with the massacre that's going on in Syria, but also Iran is not all that kind to its own Kurdish citizens inside the inside Iran. So they look around even if they they think Rightly that the Trump Administration is betraying them and some of them said, you know, a trump is stabbing Us in the

1 (20m 59s):
back the really

3 (21m 1s):
have no other choice that is no one who can protect them from from an invading Turkish military at than the United States and all the United States needs to do is just stay there because turkey won't be fighting, you know, any base that has an American flag flying. So the cost of protecting the curse at least in the eyes of the curse is not all that high, but the benefit to them is tremendous because it's not only survival, but they believe that the u.s. Owes him

1 (21m 26s):
that Doctor Bilal wahab was born and raised in Iraqi Kurdistan. He's now a fellow at the Washington Institute for near East policy in the District of Columbia where he focuses on governance energy the economy in Kurdistan.

1 (22m 10s):
Before we go for the day check out kiwi co.com explained it's where you can get a kiwi code trial. You can try it for free for one month. I know I mentioned the holidays at the top of the show, but kiwi Co subscriptions deliver Delight throughout the year with eight subscription lines for kids of all ages. Not just the eight year olds. Thank you.