0 (1s):
Marijuana is being decriminalized all up and down these United States, the president's rethinking marijuana crimes at the federal level.

1 (8s):
Federal government currently classifies marijuana as a schedule one substance, the same as heroin lsd, and more serious than fentanyl makes no sense.

0 (17s):
States are legalizing and creating hugely profitable markets.

2 (22s):
Marijuana is already legal in about 20 states across the United States,

0 (27s):
And polling data suggests that the American people are increasingly okay

2 (30s):
With it. 71% of Democrats, 61% of independents say that marijuana should be legalized across the United States. And

0 (38s):
It's not just the liberals. A lot of Republicans are

2 (41s):
On board. 47% are in favor of legalization across the United States and 41% in opposition.

0 (48s):
But all this legal marijuana was supposed to replace illegal markets. That was the promise of legalization, and it's not going according to plan that's ahead on today. Explained support for the program today comes from the Financial Times, better known by their friends as the ft. They know that quality journalism matters and that's why they aim to cover important issues with breadth and depth. The FT covers topics outside of finance and markets, just in case you're wondering, they, they touch on stories that impact not only your career but your life and the wider world as well. It's a big wide world. You can visit ft.com/today to read free articles and save 50% off an annual digital subscription

3 (1m 37s):
When the Me Too movement took off a group of famous, powerful women in Hollywood, including Oprah, rallied behind this group called Time's Up. But you don't hear about Time's Up these days

4 (1m 50s):
When a friend does something that they, that's sort of embarrassing. People will just kind of like not talk about

3 (1m 55s):
That friend.

4 (1m 56s):
Time's Up is this is like that friend. We don't talk about

3 (2m 1s):
What happened to Time's Up. And Me Too, this week on Intuit Vultures culture podcast,

0 (2m 14s):
Did I explain Sean Robinson here with Paige St. John, She's an investigative reporter at the Mighty Los Angeles Times where she's been in the field for a year covering marijuana in California, the illegal and legal operations. And what she's discovered is that the two are totally intertwined.

6 (2m 31s):
So we've found that the illegal market had used legalization as a springboard, kind of a cover to come out of hiding from the forest and national parks into the valleys, into small communities, even in California, leasing land, buying land and taking advantage of the reduced criminal penalties for cultivation to very brazenly set up large, large operations. We're talking 100 greenhouses, you know, on a single operation kind of size.

0 (3m 3s):
California's experience feels relevant in light of the big marijuana news from President Biden a few weeks ago and considering five more states, Arkansas, Maryland, Missouri, and both of the Dakotas are weighing whether to legalize recreational marijuana in the midterm elections next month. California legalized years ago, but the illegal market is still thriving and you would never know that if you just, you know, went to your local pot shop to buy some herb, you'd have to go straight to the source and that's What page did

6 (3m 32s):
You satellite mapping to try to get my hands on how much of this was going on around the state? Did samples of 3000 square miles in just six counties, found enough illegal cannabis there to provide for the entire legal market and barely scrape the surface as as to what's going on.

7 (3m 49s):
Since legalizations come in, we see many of the folks who want to comply getting on board with the legal framework and going through the proper licensing. There's a whole bunch of folks who are not

6 (3m 60s):
And and come along with it. Crime, violence, guns, shootings, murders.

8 (4m 5s):
Deputies responded to the assault with a deadly weapon call on Highway three seventy one. Inside they found carnage and more than a thousand pounds of marijuana.

6 (4m 14s):
It's a runaway illegal market and we can see why that happened in hindsight pretty clearly. But the belief that California had subscribed to that Governor Newsom, who's a big supporter of cannabis and his administration had bought into, and I heard it from the market analysts and cannabis themselves, is that the legal market would squeeze out illegal growers that would outcompete. And the opposite is true. The illegal market is making it almost impossible for small legal growers to survive.

0 (4m 45s):
Let's take a little bit of a step back for all those listeners who aren't in California and aren't familiar with the history. When did this journey to decriminalize or or legalize marijuana begin

6 (4m 57s):
California's history with cannabis goes back decades.

10 (5m 2s):
This is marijuana, some call it pot or grass or Mary Jane. The nicknames are unimportant.

6 (5m 9s):
This is where the strains were developed that have become popular. This is where we had the California, you know, mystique of cannabis. Humboldt Trinity and Mendocino Counties formed the Emerald Triangle and really provided high quality cannabis to the rest of the nation and much of the world through these very small back to the land movement grows. And California then struggled with, should that be legal? Should it not?

9 (5m 36s):
Chris, the Humboldt County Sheriff's Department searching for marijuana gardens, it's early October. The harvest has just begun fields, photographs and tips from informers support search warrants.

6 (5m 51s):
When timber moved out, this was the only economy in these communities and despite one part of the state raiding these operations with very militaristic helicopters and the notorious camp raids of the seventies and eighties,

8 (6m 6s):
The government has declared war the battleground, national forest land, the soldiers special federal agents and the enemy marijuana growers who used the national forests to cultivate their plants.

6 (6m 20s):
The rest of the state said, Hey, this isn't a bad drug. This is relatively harmless. These people are, are just owner growers and peaceful people.

10 (6m 29s):
Why do you smoke marijuana?

11 (6m 32s):
It's really very simple. It helps to make me happy.

6 (6m 39s):
California was the first in the nation to legalize medical marijuana and open its doors to medical dispensaries. This

12 (6m 49s):
Is a so-called buyers club in San Francisco where hundreds of people a day gather a purchase in smoke marijuana as a treatment for various medical conditions.

6 (6m 57s):
It became so easy to get a recommendation for cannabis that we actually then had sham recommendations and sham dispensaries and the medical marijuana market without state regulation and it became a cover for illegal cannabis that continued to flow across the borders into other states that's never been legal. Then 2016, Prop 64 came along by

13 (7m 22s):
Voting yes on prop 64 adults, 21 and over could only purchase marijuana at licensed marijuana businesses

6 (7m 29s):
To create a regulated market, a tax market. There were promises of huge tax windfalls from sale of legal cannabis to any community that would allow it open its doors. Prop

13 (7m 40s):
64 generates a billion in new tax revenue for California to fund after school programs and job training and placement initiatives. Who

0 (7m 49s):
Is behind Prop 64?

6 (7m 50s):
Prop 64 was pushed by weed maps. People who don't grow cannabis, they make their money advertising and you know, a forum for cannabis as well as other growers. They formed a consortium, had great support from Gavin Newsom, who had brought in a lot of people from San Francisco and his administration and

14 (8m 11s):
There is only one statewide democrat that has come out in support of that ballot initiative and is working to lead the charge that might be this person sitting right? That guy,

6 (8m 22s):
The consortium included the A C L U, which was board for the decriminalization part of this to, to roll back the criminal penalties that, you know, had really preyed upon people in the black and brown communities and to end the war on drugs. Essentially.

14 (8m 40s):
War on drugs is an abject failure. It's been a war on poor war on people of poverty, war on people of color, and it's time to move in a new direction.

6 (8m 47s):
Interestingly enough, on the opposite side, we had law enforcement, which was expected and said that, that this would be opening the doors to criminal endeavors.

15 (8m 56s):
Fatalities doubled in marijuana related car crashes after legalization in Washington state, yet in California Proposition 64 doesn't even include a DUI

6 (9m 6s):
Standard. But we also had the small growers in California who were heavily opposed to Prop 64 who said, this is just gonna blow up on them and push them out of business. They, they foresaw being the industry being taken over by large commercial operations.

16 (9m 20s):
We want to turn to the historic night here in California. What affects you the most? Yeah,

17 (9m 26s):
Voters legalize a recreational use of marijuana. Here's a,

0 (9m 29s):
How long after legalization is it that people start to realize there are some flaws in the legislation?

6 (9m 36s):
I saw the first rumblings like that in 2017, just a year after passage because there was what we now call the green rush. And at the time these were outdoor gardens. These were 99 plants because 100 plants will get you a mandatory federal five year sentence. So outdoor gardens of 99 plants each, that just swooped into counties in places that had no provision for commercial cannabis and people in in the industry and the market said, Oh, that that'll be short-lived. As soon as the legal market gets up and running, these people will be out of business.

6 (10m 19s):
And the opposite proved true. All these outdoor gardens began adding hoop houses and greenhouses and instead of one crop a year, they're now doing three to five crops a year. 10, we call them sea of green harvest, where beneath a canopy, it's not individual plants and pots gets to sea of green. It's a thousand plants and it's only gotten worse. One county that I'm talking about, Siskiyou County immediately back then passed a declaration of a local emergency. The law enforcement just completely could not keep up. And there were murders in the growers, people dying. The legal cannabis industry didn't join the clamor until last year when the market crashed.

6 (11m 1s):
They said, We can't compete anymore and we're going outta business. They

18 (11m 5s):
Are facing an extinction level event right now due to the plummeting wholesale prices and overtaxation and over regulations.

6 (11m 13s):
I think they totally failed to recognize that they were opening the door to sophisticated criminal enterprises that are very opportunistic and move very quickly. And so they failed to enable law enforcement to, to give people the tools from the get go at the very start to try to keep a handle on that. It's too late now. I mean at this point you've got counties with five to 10,000 illegal operations and a sheriff's department with maybe one and a half, two people on their marijuana enforcement task force. So there's no way you can go in and raid them all at this point. They failed to understand how thirsty cannabis is and these illegal operations are, are really sucking water out of aquifers who local wells are going dry.

6 (12m 3s):
There's no control over the pesticides and herbicides that they're using on these farms. They failed also to recognize the effects on the communities we're growing would take place. What it's like to live next door to this kind of an operation. I think there's been a great focus on making cannabis available to consumers, but little regard to the cost of how that cannabis has grown and where it's grown and the resources you know, that are needed from the local people. The workers who are traditionally brought in are often from the undocumented and immigrant communities that's often used against them to control them and exploit them.

6 (12m 44s):
Wage theft is rampant in the grows in these operations as well as workers. I mentioned who, who have been dying because the, if the generators are used in these greenhouses, then it's not properly vented. Those become death traps with carbon monoxide.

0 (13m 4s):
Do you think rank and file Californians everyday Californians who are engaging with the legal market and dropping thousands upon thousands of dollars a year on what is now legal weed, have any conception of the amount of issues there are around the legislation that got them to that store?

6 (13m 25s):
Oh, I think very, very few. There's a huge disconnect here. There is no connection to what I've seen in the field with the plants and, and how it's grown. There are legal organic growers who are struggling to get recognized because they wanna show, hey, we have a product. It's safe. It's, it's the people who help picket are paid fairly and treated well and even given housing as a consumer, you're wasting your ability to control how your product is made and and what it is you're consuming.

19 (13m 58s):
It's not easy being green, having to spend each day the color

0 (14m 7s):
More with page in a minute on today explained

19 (14m 11s):
When I think it might be nicer, being red or yellow or

21 (14m 20s):
Fox Creative.

22 (14m 22s):
This is advertiser content from the American Cancer Society.

20 (14m 26s):
My name's Dr. Chad Paco. I am a cancer survivor. I grew up a pretty inquisitive kid. I was more interested in the way things worked mechanically outside of the body until I got sick myself with cancer. My second year of college when I was 20, I ended up getting diagnosed with testicular cancer. That's when I began thinking about medical school because I felt this kind of calling, I guess you could say. And it also really instilled a sense of solidarity.

22 (14m 56s):
For more than a hundred years, the American Cancer Society has been the nation's leading cancer fighting organization by providing essential day to day support, advocating for health equity and affordable care, funding breakthrough life saving research and so much more. ACS exists to improve the lives of cancer patients and families

20 (15m 17s):
In a lot of ways ACS has always been there for me. The ACS Hope Lodge basically offered me a home away from home as I underwent cancer treatment. And then as I started my research career, one of the very first grants I got was an ACS research scholar grant. Being a cancer survivor and a lung cancer specialist, no one needs to convince me that we can cure cancer,

22 (15m 40s):
Donate, fundraise, volunteer, visit cancer.org/get involved the American Cancer Society. Every cancer, Every life.

23 (15m 54s):
Hey, it's Shawn Aling, host of the Gray area,

24 (15m 57s):
One whipping up

23 (15m 58s):
The hatred. Our world is full of takes because

12 (16m 1s):
Of the high gas prices.

23 (16m 3s):
You need more and lots and lots of noise. All

25 (16m 6s):
The dumb people decided one day like pronouns are bad.

23 (16m 9s):
But things are rarely that simple. It's not that the truth is in the middle, it's that we're all living in a very uncertain world and there are more questions than answers.

26 (16m 20s):
I think it's important to acknowledge that we live in a pluralistic society where norms and visions and values of what is most important will never be reconciled totally among us.

27 (16m 33s):
Part of this problem of polarization is that people feel safe talking about ever fewer things.

23 (16m 38s):
Do you think our relationships could remain intact if we were totally transparent about everything? I think it would lead to some bumpiness. That's one way to put it. Embrace the bumpiness and join me Shawn Elling post of the gray area each Monday and Thursday for conversations about culture, politics, and the good life.

28 (16m 59s):
Hey Jordan, I got some stuff. You just gotta try. What is it? Pot. You know, marijuana

0 (17m 6s):
Today explained in the first half of the show you heard about the broken promise of California's pot legalization. Prop 64 was gonna introduce legal markets that would replace illegal ones, but that hasn't been the case. Well, this summer governor Gavin Newsom said he had had enough, he announced a new task force to crack down on illegal grow operations. Just this month that task force started cracking down on illegal sites rating $15 million worth of pot from a rural growth site. But this hasn't changed the master plan, which is to have legal markets naturally evolve the state away from illegal ones.

6 (17m 42s):
At the moment, California's staying the course, It's continued to subscribe to the belief that if it can get the legal market up and running, that will eventually, you know, destroy and overcome the illegal market. And the state is trying to prepare for national market. You know, it's, it's begun to pass laws that would allow interstate shipping of cannabis even though that's against federal law. You know, the state's trying to create structure. The governor's cannabis are, Nicole Elliott in an interview told me that her first priority is to get that legal market up and running.

6 (18m 22s):
That unless she can create the integrity of that market, they'll be no chance of dealing with the illicit market. But that it will take years, it will, it will take a lot of time. So the question I guess is, is how long until things might change In California, the governor's offices also signed legislation that penalizes counties that do not allow commercial cannabis and gives grants and benefits to those that do allow it or are willing to open up dispensaries. So it's continuing to try to grow that legal market and telling places that don't want cannabis. You don't get a seat at the table, at the task force that meets to decide state policy.

6 (19m 4s):
You don't get state grants to deal with enforcement of illegal cannabis is kind of a carrot and a stick approach. There have been proposals briefly floated in the legislature to re criminalize cannabis and it's branded that by those who are opposed to it. But actually to allow law enforcement to pursue felony charges against these massive operations, they are also advocating for, for support, for funding so they can investigate, spend less time cutting down plants because everyone agrees that doesn't really work. That's been decades. The approach to cannabis has just cut down the plants and round up the poor guys who are growing it and in the field and the bosses that people are actually profiting, you know, remain in the shadows.

6 (19m 56s):
So without money and resources to do investigations, to track the money trail to China, to Mexico, the Russia, Bulgaria, to get an understanding of who has come into California to take advantage of the situation. I think that's one of the other things. But the third is, so the thing we've already talked about and that's consumer education. I think Prop 64 happened in large part because consumers were ready for it and wanted access to something that they were already buying, you know, in, in the gray medical market. And I think if consumers care more about, you know, how their cannabis has grown and and more aware of what's happening, then they might demand change.

6 (20m 40s):
But we're talking consumers in Chicago and in New York cuz that's where this California weeds showing up. And, and let's

0 (20m 47s):
Talk, talk about the rest of the country. I mean the reason we're interested in this story, of course is because the nation is trending towards legalization and decriminalization. I believe something like 20 states have legalized recreational use at this point. Another 18 or so have, have, have legalized medical marijuana or just decriminalized. Have these states seen similar problems to California? Do you know?

6 (21m 14s):
They have actually Oklahoma is overrun with a land rush for, for people who are taking out the licenses to grow cannabis are very easy to get very cheap. And then moving that product, you know, smuggling it out of the state. In fact, there's a thought that Oklahoma may replace California as the source for illegal weed, you know, for the nation, the rest of the world because it's of its central location, just interstate shipping in, in general Oregon, it's a mess. They, they had a special session of the legislature even moratorium on new licenses there, there are many counties there that have declared local states of emergency because of the illegal cannabis.

6 (21m 56s):
What the legal states are doing behind the scenes is talking to one another about how to get interstate shipping because a patchwork of legal states is a scenario where each state is requiring that it grow its own and supply its own. And that's not the way cannabis works. That's not the way any product works with a national market. So they're trying to create some kind of federal framework. Also banking so that you don't have to deal with cash so that you're not attracting street gangs to do armed he and rob growers and, and hold people hostage and kidnap. So there are things that are expected to help stabilize and create a national market.

6 (22m 40s):
And even some of the large, large license growers are starting to speculate on that national market. They're building capacity, huge greenhouses that are currently growing lettuce, but they're ready at the snap of a finger to put cannabis in in those, huh? Cause it's a low risk drug and a great way for them to make a lot of money.

0 (22m 57s):
Do you know of any of these states who have legalized or decriminalized successfully, or are all of these operations so interconnected that there's no real way to do it without buying into all these problems we've been talking about?

6 (23m 14s):
I've heard good things about Colorado, but only about its legal. The legal side of its market. Number one, it's a small state and it's not a state where it's really hospitable to growing a lot of weed. So you can kind of control the situation on the legal market, but that doesn't speak at all to how much black market weed is being trafficked through or into or out of Colorado. And it took 10 years if, if, if you're, because that was the first state to open its doors to recreational cannabis.

0 (23m 46s):
It's all of this, an argument for or against federal legalization. Could, could the federal government solve a lot of these problems by stepping in and saying, this is a mess. Here's how we're gonna do it and here's how we're gonna police it and here's how we're gonna ensure that you're not, you know, killing aquifers or, or would the federal government only exacerbate the situation?

6 (24m 12s):
You know, that's a really good question because it takes political will not just to say yes to cannabis. And that's probably easy, especially with the campaign donations that come into lawmakers and both, both political parties to get behind cannabis because there's a huge investment community that wants a scene at the table. The hedge funds and the financial industries want to play the game. But the challenging question is then how do you deal with the illegal players? If you, if the DEA and the FBI and the US DOJ have little support for cannabis investigations, if they think it's a low priority drug and if they can't follow the money trail across international lines, then you're starting out handcuffed and you'll just have another California situation on a much larger scale.

0 (25m 4s):
A lot of people will read your LA Times investigation, listen to this show and go, I knew it, you know, all of this effort to legalize marijuana. It's a bad idea. But do you think that's the takeaway here?

6 (25m 17s):
Oh, absolutely not. Because it's not about the plant. It's not about the drug or the use of it or the people who use it as a plant and, and as a drug. It's a relatively benevolent minor substance and, and has a purported a lot of medicinal uses and, and therapeutic uses. It's all the stuff that comes with cannabis, the violence and the crime and the environmental destruction, the labor exploitation, that mayhem is what needs to be addressed.

5 (25m 55s):
Let us burn before I go

0 (26m 12s):
Page St. John. You can read and support her work over@thelatimes.com. The article that inspired today's episode is titled The Reality of Legal Weed in California, Huge Illegal Grows, Violence, Worker Exploitation and Deaths. Our show today was made by Victoria Dominguez, who was v's audio fellow for a good while. She spent a number of months at today explained, but her fellowship is coming to an end. She's already off to do great things and we can't wait to see her journey unfold.

5 (26m 43s):
Congratulations story.

29 (26m 46s):
My choice is what I choose to

5 (26m 48s):
Do.

29 (26m 49s):
And if I'm causing no harm, it shouldn't bother you.

5 (26m 54s):
Your choice is who you choose to.

29 (26m 58s):
And if you causing harm, then all right.