2 (12s):
Spain held elections last week, but unlike most elections. All the attention has been on who came in third and the name of that third place party. They're called Vox. I like Fox like fo X know like vo X like us we have no affiliation. I think it should be said their colors are like green ours are yellow or in fact when I tell my family members in Spain that I work for Vox, they always like have to take a second until they remembered that there's nothing to do with it. Alex Ward co-hosts. This fox is worldly podcast, but He's also a Spanish citizen. So I asked him to explain why that box coming in. Third was such a big deal. It's a big deal in the grander scheme of European politics because there is a far-right Resurgence.

2 (54s):
We've seen it in France. We seen it in Germany. We've seen it all over the place in Spain was supposed to be the one place where there was a vaccination against this populist far-right rise. And the reason was that's being used to live under a far-right dictatorship from 1939 to 1975 Francisco, Franco. Co the generalissimo and so Spain knew better it's famous supposed to know better. There are still people abuela my grandma she still around my mom lived under Franco the memory is still fresh and so the whole point was yes, there is a right-leaning party normally but will never go that far right again because it was decades of destitution and and danger and oppression and horror and so why would Spaniards ever again vote for a far-right party and then they did and then they did Spain woke up to the news that no party has gathered enough seats to lead the country out.

2 (1m 51s):
Right the headlines are clear. It's a win but not enough seats for Pedro Sanchez and his Socialist Party the far right of the real Victor's doubling the number of seats in Parliament. How did this far rate Vox party gained ground and spin so first is that there has been as with other far-right parties growing in Europe there a backlash. - towards immigration in part because in here comes point to there's been a financial crisis in Spain for quite some time and so immigrants are scapegoats when the economy is bad. And also there are people who are just generally angry at the normal political leadership because they have yet to solve the economic problems. And then I would say the third biggest point is that there is a massive separatist issue in Spain.

2 (2m 35s):
This has been decades long, but it's really grown in recent years as Catalonia, frankly the economic engine of Dean where you know, Barcelona is is trying to become its own independent country Catalonia leaders insist. They

1 (2m 47s):
will carry out in October first referendum asking voters whether to separate from Spain

2 (2m 53s):
folks has cashed in on an internal crisis the catalonian separatist movement has a pulled many Spanish voters are fed up that they tell us our national Unity can be negotiated or that it can be subjected to a referendum because we know that our national Unity is non-negotiable and that it'll be defended with all the consequences.

1 (3m 20s):
And so with

2 (3m 21s):
all these kind of crises banding Around Here Comes Vox saying that we can sort of restore the Spanish Unity we can get you back on your feet and we will restore sovereignty and borders again. And so they're offering a message that's resonating with a lot of Spaniards seems because these are sort of the main issues that have been bothering citizens for

1 (3m 40s):
quite some time.

2 (3m 44s):
So it's worth noting that Spain is a relatively young democracy. Right? We've had Franco from the 30s to the 70s and it was in the 70s that's pain started to build out a democratic system and there were two parties that overtime entrenched themselves and it's there's a socialist party and then there's a conservative party, right? Okay, and they've battled back and forth for decades after the financial crisis of the 2000s and a bunch of other issues. They started to split because those traditional two parties were not solving the problems that that everyday Spaniards. The wanted to be solved right their jobs weren't coming back. The economy was struggling and so there has been a hollowing out of that Center and now there is a far left party. And then now we have a far-right party as Citizens are looking for other answers to their questions.

2 (4m 30s):
So as this sort of Center is hollowed out when exactly is this Vox party found it. So it's founded in 2013 By in part disaffected members of that right-leaning party that ruling party. I should just say it's called by the theater. Popular PP got it. So these members believe the pp is not solving the problems of the everyday Spaniards and part of that is because they're sort of allowing the Catalonia secession movement to continue. They're not fixing the economic issues are not being as tough on immigration and that really came on the scene last year. What is the party's platform boxes? Slogan is Ethel Espa?a Grande otra vez which Believe It or Not translates to make Spain great

1 (5m 9s):
again.

2 (5m 14s):
Are they trying to align themselves with Trump? I think they're trying to align themselves with the ideology more than the man. Of course. The problem with that is when you harken back to the pass in Spain and your far right party people will all of a sudden start to say that sounds a little fascist see to me write that then all of a sudden you're saying. Wait a minute the past was good your far right? Are you guys Franco SRU fascist and I go no, we're not that like Franco is one thing and where another who is the Franco of the Vox party. His name is Santiago Moscow.

1 (5m 45s):
You took every eyelash or

2 (5m 47s):
not. But you know that they populate that he warned us forward Spaniards without fear of anything or anyone for Spain everything for Spain Long Live Spain device by yeah, and he is a Believer not actually on the Basque region, which is one of the separatist regions. Yeah. His father was a bass politician and there was a terrorist group in Spain known as at the ETA and they would fight regular everyday. Spanish politicians because they weren't for the independence of The Basque

1 (6m 17s):
Country nationalist train near their Hideout just over the

2 (6m 21s):
French border.

1 (6m 23s):
Their aim is an independent busk state so far, they've achieved little of significance except some heavy jail sentences.

2 (6m 31s):
So one can imagine he's kind of kept this in his mind that like Spain is going to be tearing itself apart as long as he separatist regions exist, and he can you know, he carries around a Smith & Wesson with him like on him at all times. That's yeah. That's it. East what he sort of says about himself that he's got the gun constantly, but you know, he's a charismatic as a lot of these people are like, he's very media Savvy. He goes on TV. He tries some out sound as Extreme as people think he is a political issue. Not only have we changed the political landscape in Spain we have also Make a political and cultural change in Spain. We have opened all the Forbidden debates all the Forbidden political debate in Spain.

2 (7m 15s):
He's got sort of like this well manicured beard and he's stocky and he doesn't look like they usually coif Spanish politicians that had existed for decades, but he kind of has that sort of like manly or about him that you could and there's this phrase of course machismo what you've all heard of that has come from like Spanish history of like you've got to be Superman lie all the time and only that's how people will respect you like a gun-toting son of a former politician that was targeted by terrorists who can speak well like that plays into Spanish politics. Who supports this party and its leaders Santiago the skull shockingly their men vaux's basis about 68 percent male which of course means is 32 percent women and a big reason is that Vox opposes.

2 (8m 1s):
This law that gives women a bunch of Rights in cases of domestic abuse and vaux effectively makes the case that is discriminatory towards men. And so when you put it all together when you look at what Vox really stands for it's one a massive reassertion of Madrid's power over the country. It's an anti-immigrant. It's a return to quote unquote traditional family values and they've even shown some Euro skepticism. I wonder if the parties support skews younger though. If it's cues to a generation that maybe doesn't remember what life was like under Francisco Franco. So that's part of it which is why the most votes at the party gets are actually between like 25 and 34 years old tend to have Johnny V + 34 25 to 34 According to some studies out there.

2 (8m 44s):
And these are our young professionals. Like these are people with jobs. What? Might they be forgetting they might be forgetting that there happened to be a dictatorship in Spain that ruin the lives are millions of people including my own family. So let me tell you a story about life under Franco and it's actually a story about my mom. Where's your mom? She's here in America, but she obviously grew up in Spain. Should we just get her to tell it?

1 (9m 9s):
Yeah, my name is Esther Sanchez. I was born in a little town in the area of extremadura. My maternal grandfather was the mayor of the town and they were well off this was during the Spanish Civil War and he was just taken to jail. They knew for some time where he was they were able to send them some food. And then finally he was able to somehow sneak out a letter telling them. Please do not send me more food because they jailers would eat it in front of him and just make fun of him and and then eventually they moved him to a different gel up in the north of Spain and they killed him.

1 (9m 55s):
Once they went to the house and capture my grandmother and they shaved her head which hair is a beautiful element of a woman's Beauty. So it's the way to humiliate you and they gave her some laxatives. So then they tied up her hands and they pull her all around the town so that everyone will be able to see her without hair and of course, you know, she couldn't control her bowel movements to imagine the Embarrassment for my grandmother and for the family it was all a power trip because the Franco side to control of my mother's town so they could do whatever they wanted.

1 (10m 38s):
They also try to go to the house to rape my mother and her sisters, but my grandmother was very brave and took a shotgun and stayed there on the door and say whoever gets in here is going to get shot and I'm saying this because it just didn't That just happened to my parents but to a lot of people.

2 (10m 60s):
Thanks sister gracias.

1 (11m 2s):
No problem. It was my

2 (11m 3s):
pleasure. A Civil War which killed up to half a million people followed by a 36 year long dictatorship synonymous with a pressure Force labor and executions during which some estimate another half a million died at the heart of it Francisco. Franco elk audio with support from Hitler and Mussolini Franco led the Nationalist to power in

1 (11m 28s):
1939. Look moment to Select Wireless through the similar Providencia. He argues that the world will be grateful to the nationalists for the fight. They are making and he says that the duty of the future in Spain will be work. He can do we do.

2 (11m 58s):
Harold is his decades-long tenure come to an end. He died. He died in 1975 to of course great Fanfare and that's when the slow process towards democracy began. And one of the main pillars of Spanish democracy is that some of the regions like Catalonia and The Basque country can be fairly autonomous and at the 17 regions of Spain can have a bit of their own control. And the reason for that was Franco had so much control that one of the sort of compromises. Is not as much centralization of the state. How is Franco Remembered at this point? They're still Franco supporters out there. In fact until very recently Franco was buried in his own celebratory Mausoleum of his of his rule.

2 (12m 39s):
He was just taken out and moved to another location as part of a long historical struggle between Spain of like how to remember him on Franco's birthday. Franco supporters will go there and like do the, you know, fascist salute and celebrate him anyone who ever thought the fascist element of Spain was gone. Was always mistaken. The question was would that sort of ideology rear its ugly head again it has and it's gaining strength. And that seems to be the big worry here to see a party like Vox rise in Spain is a psychological trauma that I cannot describe my family is there not a silly word that a new Franco will come back.

2 (13m 21s):
I don't think anyone believes that abascal will be a new Franco, but they are worried that the idea. He espouses which does have shades of Franco's will once again rule the

1 (13m 32s):
country.

2 (13m 46s):
We'll figure out how the rise of vocs in Spain figures into the rise of far-right parties all across Europe after the break on today explained. This one's for all the Millennials out there who get a little okay Boomer when they're told you know, you really got invest in the stock market. So fi wants to convince you that the stock market is the place you gotta be. It's evidently the first investing platform to offer stocks automated investing and cryptocurrency all in one place.

2 (14m 34s):
And so if I also has something to entice you called stock bits so you can buy a bit of stocks that you're into even if you can't afford the whole thing. Like putting a down payment on a house or something if you go to so Phi dot coms explained right now. You'll get $25 in mystery stock for signing up mystery stock. I haven't been yet mystery stock sounds pretty cool. Especially free mystery stock. Here's hoping it's in something. That's great for the planet like rainbows or weeping willows. We'll see anyway get started with so five for as little as $1 Bob. So Phi.com explained is the website sof i.com explain.

2 (15m 18s):
No and I almost forgot. So file ending Corp CFL

1 (15m 22s):
number six zero five four six. One two, now, you know,

2 (15m 33s):
Shadi Hameed, you study far right movements for the Brookings institution. How does Spain's Vox party fit into what's going on across Europe Spanish voters are not in a box. They look to the rest of Europe and they see how other right-wing populist parties are doing quite well and that broadens their sense of imagination because you might think well, oh a right-wing populist party can't do well in Spain, but then when you look elsewhere friends, Germany Hungary, Might be in you see them doing quite well, then it tells you something about the possibilities in your own country. We've covered hungry on the show. What's going on in France and Germany in France you have what was previously called the national front now, they're called the national rally.

2 (16m 19s):
They were the runners-up to Micron in the in the recent presidential elections and Marine Le Pen was the candidate there and they were able to get 30 plus percent in the polls. And that was a striking result and it was an improvement over previous. Previous like Turrell contests. What scares people about this party? Well, if you go back they have a little bit of an anti-semitic backstory, but they've tried to move away from that and now they're anti-immigrant and specifically in some sense anti-muslim back is so different

1 (16m 51s):
and radical islamists will absolutely not have a voice in my

2 (16m 54s):
country in Germany. The big issue here is a 2015 Refugee crisis where around a million refugees entered the country. Germany was really the most extreme example where you have very high numbers of refugees in this particular time period but you see a significant jump throughout Western Europe. So what is this far right movement in Germany look like so it's called the alternative for Germany or the afd

1 (17m 22s):
Germany is not the only country which has a demographic problem. And we ask all the other countries you can take one to four million illegal migrants from Africa and try to solve you. Your demographic problems with them go for it. We don't want that. We don't think that this is solving our problems. This is

2 (17m 39s):
causing problems. What they would say is they want Germans to be proud and Unapologetic about their germanness. And this is a controversial thing in Germany where there's a history of you don't want to be too nationalist because of what happened in World War 2 and the Holocaust so there is still that historical memory that makes these conversations very fraud and now the afd is coming Saying too many Germans of our proud of not being proud. Hmm and that they want to change that how much power does the afd have at this point? They have D has about 13 percent in the parliament. So they're not in a position to govern their not in power.

2 (18m 20s):
So we don't actually know what they would do in power that lends itself to some confusion because people are speculating and say well what if they came to power what would they do? It's legitimate to have that conversation, but It's also something we can't really know until it happens. So I think it's important to keep some of this in perspective. You know, I spoke with Alex ward in the first half of the show about the younger generation in Spain forgetting. The fascism of Franco is something similar happening in Germany are younger people forgetting about Hitler? Is that even possible? Yes, I think part of it is that there was a sense in Europe that Europe especially through the project of the EU.

2 (19m 3s):
Had transcended it's past that Europe had somehow become better. And now these identity issues are returning to the fore and in some sense what that means is the traditional left-right economic divide is no longer applicable. That's not what's driving politics in Europe anymore. Now, the number one issues are questions of immigration culture identity and the nation and I think for a lot of liberal Elites in these countries, they were caught off guard. They thought that these parties would remain On The Fringe and that's why I initially there was a very dismissive attitude towards these parties and thinking that they wouldn't be able to gain much traction But ultimately they did.

2 (19m 51s):
It sounds like this is on the horizon in Western Europe still the Vox party just came in third, but if you look outside Europe say in Brazil, You can sort of see the fruition of these right-leaning ideas. Maybe even in the United States. Are there ways to look outside of Europe and and sort of apply what the realization of these right-leaning parties or far-right parties might look like yeah, and that's an interesting thing. So you mentioned Brazil the us we could also talk about right wing Hindu nationalists and India the raita certainly quite strong now in Israel and has been for some time.

2 (20m 31s):
So these are very different kinds of countries, but there is a kind of right-wing phenomenon what that tells us. Is that even if you have Lower levels of immigration or a different set of issues right wing politicians are able to draw on a sense of anger and frustration and what they're saying. Basically is that the Centrist Elites of the past have failed and also I think social media plays an important role here. There is a kind of thrill in being outraged to be angry is to be alive in some sense. We feel that we're fighting for something that we're struggling for something and I think what right-wing Politicians have been able to do they understand this darker side of the human psyche.

2 (21m 14s):
The far-left can easily do that too, though. Right? Is there a reason to be particularly concerned about far-right populism, but not populism from the far left all populist parties drawn this dichotomy between us and Them the difference though is that the right wing sees us and them in terms of to a large extent in some cases between Natives and immigrants or Insiders? Outsiders what left-wing populist do is a little bit different the US is the working class honest people the people who pretty much are in corporations or aren't the capitalist leads. Those are the them that has to be opposed.

2 (21m 57s):
So in that sense left-wing parties aren't threatening in quite the same way because they don't draw on the same racist or ethnic categories of seeing the Foreigner. Her or seeing Muslims as problems to be

1 (22m 12s):
solved.

2 (22m 20s):
But I think this idea that Democratic competition is nice and fluffy and we and we're all supposed to agree and half consensus is also a bit of a fantasy democracy is about groups and parties that disagree profoundly on fundamental issues. But I think one thing we have to learn is that democracy doesn't always produce the outcomes that you prefer. Sometimes it produces the outcomes that the other side prefers and at some level That's something that we have to learn to live with.

2 (23m 3s):
Study Hameed is a senior fellow at the Brookings institution. I'm Sean Rama's room. This is today explained from box the other box.