0 (2s):
Head until they explained Son, father, brother failure, criminal hunter Biden.

2 (15s):
And our next guest is probably the most famous board member of a Ukrainian energy company of all time.

0 (21s):
The department of justice investigation of hunter Biden is heating up

3 (26s):
Several recent reports suggest that a grand jury in the state of Delaware is hearing evidence brought by the us attorney's office in Delaware. And they are making a case for potential criminal indictment of hunter Biden

0 (41s):
On the show today, we're going to figure out how this might affect hunter himself, but also his very famous father, AKA the president of the United States.

4 (50s):
I don't know what he was doing. I know he was on the board. I found out he was on the board after he was on the board. And that was it.

0 (57s):
I'm Sean Ramez from that's ahead. Head on today, explained Andrew broke up Vox hunter Biden has been an ancillary figure in many, a conversation. You and I have had on this program in the past,

3 (1m 17s):
You know, hunter Biden. I don't think anyone has looked at the situation of his work in Ukraine and said, this is perfectly above board. And there's nothing at all queasy about this. It does look weird,

0 (1m 33s):
But today he's the main character of our story for all those who aren't familiar, what's his deal.

3 (1m 44s):
So hunter is Joe Biden's. Second son. He has been called the black sheep of the Biden family. Ne'er do well. He's struggled with drug addiction in a very high profile way.

6 (1m 59s):
I went one time for 13 days without sleeping and smoking crack and drinking vodka exclusively throughout that entire time,

3 (2m 9s):
He was discharged from the Naval reserve

7 (2m 12s):
Hunter or failing a drug test one month after receiving his commission testing positive for cocaine and discharged less than honorably.

3 (2m 21s):
His personal life took a very tumultuous turns. After his older brother, Beau Biden suddenly died of brain cancer. In 2015. After that hunter split from his own wife,

8 (2m 35s):
She writes in the divorce documents. And this is a quote is recent conduct create situations that are unsafe or traumatic for the parties, children and his judgment is frequently impaired

3 (2m 49s):
And began dating Beau's widow

6 (2m 51s):
Or together and trying to do the right thing. And that grief turned into a hope for a love that maybe could replace what we lost

3 (3m 7s):
Until that relationship collapsed to Hunter's. Now ex-wife accused him in a court filing of spending extravagantly on drugs, alcohol prostitutes, strip clubs, and gifts for women with whom he has had sexual relations. And hunter also fathered a child with a different woman in this period. Who've later sued him for paternity. He repeatedly went in and out of rehab. He was really a mess in this period.

9 (3m 34s):
You would wake up and be looking for crack and just smoke, whatever was there.

6 (3m 40s):
Yeah. You know, I spent more time on my hands and knees picking through rugs, smoking anything that even remotely resembled crack cocaine. He,

3 (3m 52s):
He has been kind of in the swampy Washington lobbying influence sector for decades now. And he started at this back when his father was a Senator from Delaware, continued on when Joe Biden became vice president in the Obama administration. And he's been at the center of many political scandals as well.

0 (4m 23s):
Let's talk more about those. How does hunter Biden become a controversial political figure?

3 (4m 30s):
So the criticisms about what exactly a hunter Biden is doing to make money date back to the 1990s. So he at this stage was about 26 years old. He'd just graduated Yale law school. And he took a job at MBNA bank, which was his father's largest campaign donor. At the time he continued to work as a lobbyist in the two thousands, basically being in the business of being Senator Joe Biden's son, helping clients get stuff through Congress, get earmarks and so on. Then Senator Joe Biden became vice president Joe Biden and got a much bigger role in Washington and greater fame.

3 (5m 16s):
And hunter Biden expanded his ambitions as well. He moved from lobbying to the more opaque world of shadowy consulting or investment work for foreign clients. And there was big money associated with this work. He has had many clients in, in this period. The most famous of which is the Ukrainian gas company Barisma that gave a hunter Biden, a board seat,

10 (5m 49s):
Hunter Biden reportedly made $50,000 a month to sit on the board of a Ukrainian gas company called Barisma at the time his father, former vice president Joe Biden was the Obama administration's point person on Ukraine.

3 (6m 2s):
When hunter didn't really seem to have much knowledge of the energy sector or experience with it or anything like that.

11 (6m 10s):
If your last name wasn't Biden, do you think you would've been asked to be on the board of a RESA?

6 (6m 15s):
I don't know. I don't know. Probably not. I don't think that there's a lot of things that would've happened in my life. That, that if my last name wasn't fine,

3 (6m 23s):
It's just seems to be an attempt to do favors for Joe Biden's family. And that hunter is basically in the business of being Joe Biden's son. He's also had Chinese clients, Kazak clients and other clients as well.

12 (6m 39s):
Hunter Biden and James Biden served as the perfect vehicle by which the communist Chinese government could gain inroads here in the United States

3 (6m 53s):
In just one brief 14 month period from 2017 to 2018, a Chinese energy company sent $4.8 million to entities that hunter and his uncle James Biden controlled for purported legal and advisory work. James Biden being the brother of Joe. Yes, exactly. Now all of this is certainly less than ideal for president Biden, but it doesn't necessarily sound totally illegal, right? There is nothing inherently illegal about accepting money and gifts from foreign interests.

3 (7m 35s):
If you are a private citizen, which hunter Biden was, and your dad is a famous and powerful person as Joe Biden was, it's just, you know, hunter is not his dad and he can go into business however he wants. But there are obviously ethical concerns about, you know, potential clients of interest questions that conservative critics have raised about whether Joe Biden is really, as he claims completely uninterested in Hunter's foreign work or who his clients happen to be.

4 (8m 9s):
I don't know what he was doing. I know he was on the board. I found out he was on the board after he was on the board. And that was it. And there's nobody. We always a

13 (8m 18s):
Lot of time. Isn't this something you want to get to the bottom

4 (8m 20s):
Of? No, because I trust my son

3 (8m 22s):
And just, you know, the question of whether this is a, a somewhat shady way to make money. If your dad is now the president of the United States, totally fair tax time is here. I gotta ask, does hunter Biden file on time and file truthfully, we don't have full visibility into hunter Biden's taxes just yet, but that appears to be what launched this whole investigation. It started according to the New York times as a tax inquiry, back during the Obama administration, looking into whether hunter had properly paid his taxes on all the money he was making.

3 (9m 5s):
And then in 2018, the investigation broadened and became a criminal investigation, looking into hunter for potential violations of tax laws, money-laundering laws. And whether he acted as an unregistered foreign agent for these foreign clients and hunter actually just coughed up a more than a million dollars payment to settle a tax liability. He had just last year, according to the times. So that seems to be a concession that perhaps his tax affairs were not fully in order until just recently, at least.

0 (9m 46s):
And if I recall correctly, the attention on hunter Biden's personal finances increases dramatically. Once the former president's in office,

3 (9m 54s):
Yes, hunter Biden was, you know, he would pop up in the tabloids. Sometimes he would be a minor headache for the Obama administration, but where he really becomes a focus of the right is when Joe Biden is gearing up to challenge Donald Trump in 2020, Donald Trump is worried about running against Joe Biden. He thinks that Biden will be his strongest opponent. You

14 (10m 20s):
Can tell he's really scared.

3 (10m 23s):
And he and his allies become fixated on looking for the thing that will bring Joe Biden down.

15 (10m 32s):
Every time Joe Biden was named point, man, the Biden family made millions

3 (10m 36s):
And they start closely scrutinizing hunter Biden,

15 (10m 39s):
Ukraine point, man, the kid makes $8 million

3 (10m 43s):
Specifically Rudy Giuliani Trump's lawyer hears from some associates of his, that there may have been something shady about Hunter's Ukraine work for the company. Barisma they claim

15 (10m 57s):
Larissa holding limited and it's direct. A hunter Biden are involved in corruption affair, and then it lays out a stone cold money wandering situation that he was involved in for four, $14.6 million.

3 (11m 11s):
They said that they had heard that Joe Biden while he was vice-president had helped get the top prosecutor in Ukraine fired

16 (11m 21s):
Joe Biden, willing to fire the prosecutor by threatening to Ukrainian government with millions of dollars in aid. If they don't get rid of the guy investigating his son a billion, give me a break, Shawn.

3 (11m 32s):
Now this was never corroborated or proven in any way. And in fact, it doesn't seem to hold up to the facts at all. This was a United States policy to push out this prosecutor general. It wasn't anything limited to or specific to Joe Biden. There were various reasons to push them out. They thought he wasn't prosecuting enough corruption, but Trump became obsessed that, you know, this, this would prove Joe Biden's corruption. And that is when he had his famous phone call with a Ukraine's at the time new president Volodymyr Zelensky.

17 (12m 7s):
It was release transcript of a phone call shows president Trump asking Ukrainian president Zelensky to investigate his political rival former vice president, Joe Biden. And in this call, the president repeatedly stresses how much the U S does for Ukraine. And then he says, quote, I would like you to do us a favor.

3 (12m 27s):
That of course started a chain of events that led to Donald Trump's first impeachment, when all of this became public and it looked like he was shaking down a foreign leader for his own political advantage.

0 (12m 44s):
But the whole impeachment thing is not the end of the former president's obsession with Joe Biden's.

3 (12m 49s):
Oh no. So this investigation we should mention is proceeding in the background of the justice department at this point, but it is not public and no one knows about it. Meanwhile, Trump's allies are continuing to try and dig up more dirt about him and eventually Rudy Giuliani's own team. Here's a curious tale, a guy who owns a computer repair store in the state of Delaware says that there were three laptops that were water damaged and abandoned at his store in 2019, the person who dropped them off never came back to pick them up.

3 (13m 29s):
And he left a receipt and signed the name, hunter Biden. One of the laptops had a Beau Biden foundation sticker on it. And so the computer store owner who just happens to be a huge fan of Donald Trump starts looking at what's on these laptops. What's the data that he can find. And he sees some stuff that he thinks looks pretty scandalous. So he called the FBI and he gave them the laptop, but he copied all the information, kept it for himself and then had it sent over to Rudy Giuliani. And that is how the story of hunter Biden's laptop became public.

0 (14m 13s):
What do they find on these laptops again?

3 (14m 15s):
So there's all sorts of embarrassing stuff. Sex videos, personal emails about Hunter's relationships, his struggles with drug addiction, very private exchanges with family members, with people close to him. And then there is a whole lot of material about his, his business work as well, emails related to his work for foreign clients. And one that got particularly a lot of attention was an email that mentioned something about the big guy,

0 (14m 58s):
The big guy,

3 (14m 59s):
The big guy

18 (15m 7s):
This is paid content from engine Lately. Many of us have rediscovered a forgotten pastime jigsaw puzzles. There's the shaking of the pieces in their box. The satisfying click as pieces snap into place pinpointing the source of cancer in a patient can be like trying to find that one elusive puzzle piece in a box of mini

19 (15m 32s):
Each patient is unique in their own way.

18 (15m 34s):
Gregory Freiburg, a leader on the global medical affairs team at Amgen says that personalized medicine starts with knowing what you're dealing with on a molecular level.

19 (15m 45s):
And of course, just like a puzzle. If you're missing pieces, it's hard to see that forest through the trees.

18 (15m 50s):
I take lung cancer, which accounts for almost 25% of us cancer deaths each year, it can be caused by any number of different protein mutations. One of the most common is K Raz G 12 C, which is found in 13% of patients with non-small cell lung cancer. This is where biomarker testing comes in.

20 (16m 9s):
There are ways today to be able to specify which exact mutation is associated with the lung cancer that a patient might have.

18 (16m 18s):
Margaret Shue Moyer is vice-president of research at Amgen.

20 (16m 22s):
Biomarker testing may offer specific treatment.

19 (16m 26s):
Receiving biomarker information is like filling in the missing piece to a puzzle

18 (16m 32s):
To learn more about biomarker testing and how Amgen has taken on the K Raz challenge. Visit amgen.com/no K rats.

3 (16m 46s):
The big guy,

0 (16m 47s):
The big guy,

3 (16m 48s):
The big guy,

0 (16m 50s):
Andrew broke up Fox. We're talking about hunter Biden. We're talking about his laptops. We're talking about emails. He sent that spoke of the big guy is the big guy, his old man, the president of the United States.

3 (17m 3s):
So this email here that mentions the big guy it was sent in May, 2017 by one of Hunter's business associates. At this point, hunter was trying to strike a deal with a Chinese energy company for a joint venture that would focus in the United States. And they had a proposed share split and equity split for this joint venture. And the email goes down the list of who would get what percentage of the shares. So it starts with 20 H and H apparently means hunter. Then there's 20 each for three more of hunters, business partners that are listed by initials 10 gym, which is apparently James Biden.

3 (17m 51s):
And then it says 10 held by H for the big guy question mark. And so one of these would be business associates. They didn't end up actually striking this deal. Nothing went forward, but this person came forward. Tony Bobo Linsky is his name at the height of the 2020 campaign. And he alleged that the big guy meant Joe Biden, that hunter was going to hold these shares secretly for his father and Joe Biden. We should mention, has totally denied this and said, there's absolutely nothing to this.

21 (18m 32s):
And Biden has never considered being in business with his family or any business overseas.

3 (18m 37s):
And again, this business venture never happened. So this joint venture did not come together. This equity split ended up being totally theoretical and there is no evidence that Joe even knew what hunters business partners were talking about here. So, you know, the big guy email doesn't necessarily look so great, but it doesn't seem to have led to anything either.

0 (19m 5s):
So it doesn't sound like much of this is going to touch the president of the United States directly. Is that fair?

3 (19m 13s):
We never know what we don't know of course, but we actually do know a fair amount about this criminal investigation because Trump's allies have had these emails from the laptop for some time, they have had all of this private info of hunter Biden's and they have not been able to really make a scandal stick to Joe Biden. The closest they've got is that Joe Biden gave a really sweeping denial about how he's never spoken to his son about business ever. And it does seem like hunter has, for instance, brought his business clients to briefly meet Joe Biden at events.

3 (19m 57s):
He had them all at a dinner in 2015 while Biden was vice president. There are other sorts of events like that, but the laptop did not at all vindicate Trump's allies claims that vice president, Joe Biden's secretly fired the Ukrainian prosecutor general to cover up his son's companies, corruption or anything like that. And the question of what happened with this Chinese energy company, the company did end up paying hunter and his uncle James entities that they controlled nearly $5 million, but there's been no evidence that any of that money made it to Joe Biden, that Joe Biden was aware of that or anything like that.

0 (20m 42s):
Hmm. How strong is the case at this point against hunter Biden?

3 (20m 47s):
So we don't totally know. Again, it focuses on three main areas. The first is taxes and prosecutors are according to the wall street journal examining whether hunter quote moved funds in a way to obscure his tax liability. So the second area is money laundering and, you know, money laundering sounds like big and scary. It sounds like drug trafficking or something like that, but it's also just a charge that prosecutors can connect to much more prosaic crimes. Cause it really just means bringing money into the U S financial system in connection with some sort of crime. So the crime that prosecutors seem to be looking at here is whether the money laundering was in connection to the crime of hunter working as an unregistered foreign agent.

3 (21m 37s):
So that's number three, crime, number three in this investigation. So, you know, is all this sufficient to support a criminal charge for being an unregistered foreign agent. That's not clear. And according to the New York times, prosecutors have considered pursuing this as a civil matter instead, not a criminal one. So it's not a sure thing that this will end up being charged criminally. It's not clear. The case is strong enough for that. It's not clear Hunter's conduct merited that

0 (22m 7s):
All could just end up like a big, nothing burger. At some point

3 (22m 11s):
At a certain point, the prosecutors are going to add to decide whether they want to indict him. They've been building a case against him. They've been bringing all these witnesses in front of this grand jury in hopes, I believe of making this case, but eventually they will have to decide, you know, do we have the goods? Are we likely to win a conviction? Does this justify bringing charges? And they could certainly decide either way on that in the end.

0 (22m 42s):
In the meantime, it seems like people on the right love to throw around hunter Biden's name in order to somehow impinge upon his father's reputation. Is that sort of the strategy here?

3 (22m 57s):
Yes. They, they enjoy doing that very much and not just his father. There is deep seated grievances on the rights about how this whole hunter Biden issue has been covered, dating back years

0 (23m 11s):
Covered by whom covered by

3 (23m 12s):
You. I mean, I am always totally fair and no one has any objections to my coverage ever, but you know, it's never really been a convenient time for Democrats to have this discussion about hunter Biden when Trump was in office, Democrats argued that, oh, of course Trump's conduct was far worse on so many fronts. I mean, he tried to steal the election for crying out loud and now Trump's out of office and Joe Biden's in office. And you know, there are still arguments about why this is not the most important story in the world and it's not the most important story in the world. Hunter is not a public official.

3 (23m 54s):
He's the son of the president. He may be facing financial or lobbying related charges, but if the case doesn't go anywhere further than that, then it is kind of a story limited to himself while also perhaps telling a larger story about how Washington functions, Really his behavior is kind of a classic story of the Washington Swamp. He was clearly in the business of being Joe Biden's son, trying to cash in on that and got these foreign interests to pay him large amounts of money for that

0 (24m 42s):
Andrew pro cop. He's a senior correspondent at Vox. You can read his writing on hunter and fox.com. Our show today was produced by Heidi Milwaukee D engineered by a theme Shapiro fact, checked by Laura Bullard and edited by me.

16 (24m 56s):
Give me a break. Sean

0 (24m 58s):
I'm Sean Robinson it's today explained

22 (25m 14s):
The best thing about spring is fashion. So it's time for a seasonal refresh with a splash of new color and style on saks.com. You can browse new sneakers, everyday denim, and the best looks from designers, you know, in love and from the freshest emerging names. Plus you can shop now and pay later with Klarna. Everything is free to ship with free returns every day, which means shopping from home is really easy on saks.com.