0 (0s):
After last week shooting in new valley, Texas, we asked you to call in with any questions or just to vent. Some of you had questions.

1 (9s):
I would like to know what, how many more of these have to happen? What can we actually do? How much power does the second amendment, really? How, since 1999, this has just gotten worse. It is so easy to get a gun. It's not fair, but you don't have to have a requirement or a license or any training to purchase a handgun. This is preposterous. I want to take the AR 15 away. I'm just exhausted. I want to take ghost guns away and overwhelmed. It's kind of the Batten position can put a grapefruit sized hole into an adult's human beings. It is going to take more than a bill to solve this problem

0 (49s):
On the show today, we're going to hear what you had to say and answer your questions.

1 (53s):
Yeah, the shooter came in. I just think about that a lot.

3 (1m 0s):
Hurry into mattress firm for a limited time, save up to $500. When you get a king bed for the price of a queen or a queen for a twin, plus get a free adjustable base with qualifying Sealy purchases up to $499 in value, or get up to 60% off America's top rated brands like Sealy queen mattresses starting at 2 79 99, or Sleepy's for 1 69 99 in stock for fast delivery. Only at mattress firm's restrictions apply, see store or mattress, firm.com for details.

4 (1m 30s):
Dakota is a show about how big ideas really work and where they might go wrong. Hosted by me, Neil Patel editor in chief of the verge. I interview CEOs, policymakers, tech, experts, and creators about how they make decisions and how those decisions affect our shared future for better or worse past episodes have covered everything from self-driving cars to crypto, to social media moderation. It's a thoughtful, critical conversation about business and technology that you will not hear anywhere else. Follow Dakota, wherever you find your podcasts, new episodes come out. Every Tuesday

0 (2m 8s):
It's today explained I'm Sean Rama's firm on May 14th. That was the Buffalo shooting on May 24th. It was evolved the Texas. Then over Memorial day weekend, there were more than a dozen mass shootings. Nine people were killed, something like 60 people were injured. That's just the everyday stuff that doesn't even really make the news. And then this week, four people were killed at a medical center in Tulsa, Oklahoma, that one made the news around the exact time that happened. A student was shot outside of his high school in Los Angeles and a gunman shot a woman outside of a nail salon in Pittston township, Pennsylvania, no matter where you land on gun rights in America, no one wants to live like this.

1 (2m 52s):
My name is Tamika. I'm calling from Westchester New York. I have a four year old who I had extremely hard time dropping off that daycare this morning. By the time I'd left her, I was in tears and shaking shifts this world isn't isn't there. It's not, it's not the kind of environment I want to raise my child and I don't really know what we do next. Hello. My name is Carter Nall. I am from Indiana. I am 22 years old and it all just feels so hopeless.

1 (3m 37s):
And I'm so angry. I became political in 2012 when I was a 12 year old and I heard about the Sandy hook shooting. That's when I decided I am against the people who let this happen as a 12 year old. And all I can do is just try to Channel that anger and that grief and that rage into action. Because at first I was like, oh man, they're, they're really going to pass some legislation. They're really going to fix this. And then it didn't happen. Instead they did Alice drills. They made us train to defend ourselves. It's cowardly, victim blaming. It's disgusting.

1 (4m 17s):
And I just hope all the old people out there who are making money off of this, who profit from the slaughter of children, that your day of reckoning is coming. When we vote you guys into oblivion, I have to hope for my kids, that we can build a better world for them. Hello. I am a Philadelphia public school teacher and then obviously still processing everything that happened in Texas. Thinking about coming into my classroom every day, sitting behind my desk, interacting with my students, but then also trying to think about worst case now of having to then use that same desk as a barricade to protect my students and myself.

1 (5m 11s):
I keep yelling at the radio teachers too. Every time I have to teach a class of kindergartners, how her hide every time I have to go home and tell my own kids that I would put myself in front of somebody to protect my students and my own kids ask why those lives matter more. And I have to explain that they don't, but that I can't imagine allowing anything to hurt them. And whenever we have a drill, it makes me incredibly emotional for days.

1 (5m 52s):
And in my classroom, whenever there's a drill for an active shooter or a threat, I have students who carry that fear and that worry and that burden. I remember feeling this tier when we had to do them during classes, drills that you didn't know if they were drilled or not. And having people come and pull on the door knob thing on the door to make sure that you were quiet enough to just reinforce the fear in you. My entire middle school experience, my entire high school experience.

1 (6m 33s):
I was always sort of like looking at people, being like, is this a possible school shooter? You know, I see kids kind of being kids or being weird or mean, or whatever I'm thinking like, is this like, is, you know, do I need to report this person? And so I didn't, but I thought about it all the time. I have a four year old autistic son who is in a public developmental pre-K program. I had to talk with his teacher earlier this year about what school shooting protocols with look like for his classroom.

1 (7m 19s):
And the truth is they take all of these children into a quite small bathroom that is located in their room. But this is a classroom for young kids who don't do well, being quiet or being still. And his teacher was honest in saying that if a shooter came in their classroom, isn't soundproof and the, he would hear them.

1 (8m 6s):
He would know they weren't there and she wouldn't be able to protect them. I just think about that a lot. I think about all the kids who are, have support needs, what have mobility needs, who can't run out of a school. I feel like they deserve to be part of this conversation too.

1 (8m 47s):
Hi, my name is Amy. I'm calling from London. My name is Martin and I'm calling from Houston, Texas, my husband and I had a lot of conversations about moving back to the us. My family are there. I miss them very much lived in California for over five years, but I feel so much safer. I'm living in a country that regulates guns, a country where the Wikipedia entry for school shootings has one entry. Now that I've moved our family to Texas, it's always now in the front of my mind in regards to school shootings, will my son make it back home?

1 (9m 29s):
You know, will he know what to do and not panic when he's in school in case there's that shooting there after that massacre, which happened in 1996, do you think government introduced regulations to limit personal handgun ownership? All these concerns that I never had when we were in Mexico, actually even with the high crime rate in Mexico. And it has brought to my mind, should we move back to Mexico? At least when my son is still in school, because I know he will be safer there, then he, I guess he would be here. I don't have to worry here about my very real child in the same way that all of my friends and all of my family, my sister, with her two children, they have to worry in a way that I just don't and it's not fair.

1 (10m 23s):
Having lived abroad. I had arguments with people about whether this is the greatest country in the world. You know, the access to opportunities and innovation and income here. In some cases unparalleled, certainly in parts of the country, being able to, you know, for myself, be a queer woman, feel safe. Most of the time is a real privilege. I'm not going to act like there aren't so many privileges in this country, but I just keep thinking about all of the things, all of the ways in which this country is failing.

1 (11m 8s):
There's a mirror centric view that this is the greatest country in the world. It's pretty mind blowing.

0 (11m 27s):
When we're back, we're going to hear your questions and answer them. It's today explained Support for the show today. Once again comes from slack. Slack makes it easy to stay in sync with your team. Even if they're across the world, you can work from wherever, however works best for you and your group. You can organize projects in different channels. You can cut down on emails and search for important information, all in one place. Although I will admit that there is a purpose for email and a purpose for a slack, but you know, sometimes a slack is an email and sometimes an email is a slack and you can figure that out.

0 (12m 14s):
Once you start using slack. So many people are using slack to stay in touch with their collaborators and to make big ideas come to life. And all of those workflows and asynchronous tasks and knowledge sharing doesn't have to be a grind. It can add up to a win. If you're using technology like slack, watch the full stories of how teams large and smaller achieving impossible feats at slack.com/stories.

7 (12m 41s):
Hey everyone, I'm Heather Cox Richardson

8 (12m 43s):
And I'm Joanne Freeman where the co-host of now, and then a weekly history podcast from cafe and the Vox media podcast network.

7 (12m 51s):
We just dropped the final episode in our three part series on free speech in America, from the drafting of the first amendment to the current controversies, over Republican hostility toward the press.

8 (13m 3s):
Our third installment focuses on so-called cancel culture. Is this a new social phenomenon? To what degree does it involve accountability and what drives Americans to stand up against objectionable statements?

7 (13m 15s):
We look at some past popular reckonings with canceled speech from Thomas Hutchinson's fall from grace during the revolutionary period to the debate over a musical groups, condemnation of the Iraq war in 2003,

8 (13m 28s):
Listen to the whole series and check out other episodes, which explore crucial issues from abortion rights to the laws of war. Just search now, and then in your favorite podcast app, and look out for new episodes every Tuesday,

9 (13m 45s):
Do something, just do something for God's sake. Do something

0 (13m 52s):
Today explained we listen to you vent about guns, but several of you had questions we wanted to answer to. We asked Dr. Megan Ranney for help answering them.

6 (14m 2s):
I'm a practicing emergency physician and academic Dean of the school of public health at brown university in Rhode Island.

0 (14m 9s):
If you're wondering why an emergency physician got interested in guns, look no further than the fact that the leading cause of death in American kids went from cars to guns a few years ago.

10 (14m 21s):
This is Darren from Oregon, and I am cynical about anything that's going to change. I'm curious to understand how many more of these have to happen for every single person in the United States to be impacted directly.

6 (14m 41s):
It is so normal and appropriate to feel angry, frustrated, and even cynical. Right now, I've been working on this issue for my entire career, and I'll be honest on Tuesday afternoon, I called a bunch of friends and colleagues in despair. You know, how many more of these do we have to go through before we actually do something? The truth is that these mass shootings are relatively rare that doesn't make them okay. Terrorism events are never, okay. No matter how rare they are. What's also true though, is that there are more than a hundred deaths and more than 200 injuries by firearms every day across the United States.

6 (15m 22s):
And I will say at this point, studies suggest that almost every one of us personally know someone who has been hurt or killed by a firearm. The majority of those are not mass shootings. They are suicides homicides, domestic violence and accidental or unintentional injuries. I think the mistake is to think that those don't matter, the same solutions that would help to reduce the number of mass shootings can also be used to reduce that daily toll of firearm injury across the country.

10 (15m 56s):
Hi, my name is Alex Garcia from Southern California. I'm 32 years old. I have a four year old and I I'm finding it very difficult to explain that in a way that won't scare him, but I feel like more needs to be done through the CDC or there's some other local government organizations that really educate parents on how to safely educate their children on what to do during the school shooting or how to, you know, bring them in a way that they can digest it.

6 (16m 38s):
So honestly, for a four-year-old, you don't need to talk to them about this. They don't need this fear in their world. They're probably doing lockdown drills at school already. I'll say my kids did them when they were in preschool. If they bring them up, you can talk to them about firearms or school shootings in general terms, the same way you would talk to your kid about doing a fire drill or about a thunderstorm, but you don't need to go into the gory details. It gets a little more complicated with older kids. I have a 13 year old she's well aware of what's happened. And we've talked about some more specifics and we've talked about what adults are trying to do to help keep her and her friends safe and about what she can do as well.

0 (17m 24s):
We got a ton of questions about policies. What kind of policies can we implement? What kind of policies of other countries implemented?

1 (17m 34s):
Hi, my name is Jill and I'm calling from Rhode Island. And I'm wondering if you could do more research or there could be more conversation about what the steps are that other countries, places have taken to do after these mass shootings that have worked for them and what kind of effect it has had on gun ownership in those countries.

6 (18m 5s):
There's a lot that the us can learn from other countries while also recognizing that the U S is a unique place. You know, I look at Switzerland where my sister actually lives next to the United States and Yemen, Switzerland has the highest per capita rate of firearm ownership, but their guns, suicide and homicide rates are much lower and their mass shootings are virtually nonexistent. There's some good evidence already here in the United States about policies that can make a difference. Things like universal background checks, domestic violence, restraining orders, where folks that have been convicted or under a restraining order for, for domestic violence lose access to their firearms, either temporarily or permanently extreme risk protection orders, or red flag laws.

6 (18m 58s):
There's also a lot of culture change and a lot of work around identifying folks who are at highest risk around Dean normalizing violence. When you look at Switzerland, there are a lot of factors that go into their low violence and death rates. And so the solution here is both policy and talking about the family neighborhood structural factors that have led us to this point.

1 (19m 25s):
Hi, Sean and Noel. This is Ted in Hamden, Connecticut. So my question for you that I'm curious as I am the local legislator on the town council and I, I ran for office to make a difference and make the world a better place. And there's, we're working on things on the local level, but while we wait for federal action to happen, what is going on in the local level, are there things local legislators like me can do to decrease gun violence and increase than control and gun safety?

6 (19m 55s):
There are a lot of things that can be done on the local level. And in fact, we're seeing most of the progress around firearm injury prevention happening on the local level. Right now, the types of things you can do range from funding programs like big brothers, big sisters, or boys and girls clubs to greening, vacant lots and putting in community gardens. It's actually been shown statistically to decrease the rates of firearm injury in a community to of course, working with your local police departments and courts, to make sure that any laws that are in place are actually enforced to maybe even passing new laws as well. Now, Connecticut already has pretty strict policies around safe storage around permitting around background checks, but there is often more to be done in my home state of Rhode Island.

6 (20m 43s):
Although people who have been convicted of domestic violence are not legally allowed to own firearms. They've actually been studies showing that family court judges don't always ask about firearm ownership at the time that a decision is rendered. That's a really simple change that doesn't even require policy or new legislation, but can make a huge difference because domestic violence is one of the strongest predictors of someone killing someone else

0 (21m 10s):
From the local level. I don't know, to the maybe biggest question at the federal level. Some people had some questions about just rethinking some of the founding principles of this country.

12 (21m 22s):
Hi, my name's Sam Myers calling from Tucson, Arizona, and the most recent school shooting and evolved a Texas has got me thinking is the U S system just irrevocably broken. And do we need to go back and start from scratch? Like truly is doing right now, rewriting its constitution.

6 (21m 39s):
Gosh, we can't even get the equal rights amendment through

0 (21m 45s):
You. Can't blame him for asking

1 (21m 47s):
Hi there. My name is Dylan. I'm from Canada and watching all these mass shootings happen in the us. I think I hear a lot of fellow Canadians and of course, people around the world saying, you know, this doesn't happen anywhere else, but America and to people that are pro second amendment or pro gun rights or whatever it is, what is the response when they are confronted with that objective truth? That it's very clear. There's a correlation between the accessibility to guns and the amount of mass shooting events. And America's unique.

1 (22m 27s):
Accessibility to guns is very much connected to mass shootings. How, how do they confront that statement?

6 (22m 38s):
You are exactly right. That a mass shooting happens when someone with hatred or a suicidal impulse has access to that lethal means there is a long pathway that gets them there. And there are a lot of moments where intervention can happen both around reducing access to firearms for folks with histories of violence or hatred or various types of convictions. DUIs are actually a big predictor of hurting someone else through education of folks that are already firearm owners about how to recognize risk.

6 (23m 20s):
And one of those really important things is recognizing that 40% of Americans are firearm owners or have a firearm in the house. There are 400 million firearms in private hands right now in the United States. Those are facts. And we've got to figure out ways for firearm owners and non firearm owners to work together, to commit equally to reducing this scourge. I mean, look at our COVID response to we're a bit more and divided right now in general. And sometimes I fear that we're going to get worse before we get better, but the only way we'll get better is by a bunch of us trying to get there.

0 (23m 55s):
The last question I have for you was the one we got the most, and it maybe wasn't even a question as much as it was a frustration. And it was just that people have this real sense that nothing is going to change because they've seen it all before

1 (24m 19s):
I go back to that tweet from Dan Hodges, a British journalist who talked about once America decides slaughtering children to find this was over. And I really feel that's true. I hope I'm wrong, but I'm 41 years old. And since 1999, this has just gotten worse.

10 (24m 43s):
I don't want to sound hopeless, but we can rally around that. Children's and I, my hope is pretty low.

1 (24m 60s):
Thank you for your time. I don't know who will listen to this, and I know it won't change anything, but my heart is broken.

6 (25m 13s):
I'm an emergency room physician. I take care of folks, every shift who are in the worst moment of their lives. And I know that the moment when I give up is the moment when there is no more hope. I will say I have not given up for this epidemic and not just me, but thousands of other physicians, thousands more public health professionals, social workers, counselors, parents, across this country, firearm owners and non firearm owners alike are equally committed to fixing this. And I think, you know, it's really normal to be angry and frustrated and sad right now.

6 (26m 4s):
I also would implore us to keep going in whatever way makes sense to you because that's the only way that we do make progress. And I believe we can get there, but we only do it together.