0 (1s):
Happy New Year. What are your resolutions? You open to trying new things. How about lab grown meat? They take some chicken cells, real chicken cells from real chickens. Then they feed 'em hungry chicken cells, salts, sugars, amino acids. A few cells turn into tons of cells, then they feed 'em more and more and more. A lot of cells turns into a mushy chicken substance. This is all happening in bigger and bigger tanks as they go, it kinda looks like brewing beer. Then they separate this mushy chicken substance from all the nutrients they've been feeding it hand that mushy chicken product to gourmet chefs and food developers who mold molded into something that you'd actually want to eat.

0 (44s):
Something with texture that replicates muscles and flesh. Then it's time to grub. If you're like, hell no, but someone else can go right ahead. Well, I've got great news for you. I'm about to in a minute on today. Explained back at it with today, explained Sean Ramis ver here with Vox Kenny Terella, who's got the word on the street on the meat beat.

2 (1m 15s):
A big story on the meat beat is that in November, the Food and Drug Administration gave the thumbs up to the lab grown meat company, upside foods, saying that their process for creating lab grown meat looks good to the fda.

3 (1m 31s):
So far, the FDA has only given clearance for chicken made from cultured chicken cells by upside, the process is described as similar to brewing beer, but instead of growing yeast or microbes, they grow animal cells taste

2 (1m 44s):
Like chicken. It's not necessarily a watershed moment because upside foods can't start selling its product right away. They first need U S D A approval and we don't know when or if that will come. And really, it's still an open question as to whether lab grown meat can ever be widely available on fast food menus on grocery store shelves because it's still really expensive to produce.

0 (2m 12s):
Hmm. Why is this a big deal though, Kenny? Cuz you can already find, you know, beyond burgers impossible burgers in almost any grocery store in any major American city.

2 (2m 23s):
Yeah, I, I like, you know, beyond Meat and Impossible foods, but a lot of people don't.

4 (2m 30s):
Hmm. All right. Rough times for Beyond Meat. The company losing money and amassing debt

2 (2m 33s):
With a recent sales of plant-based meats have been declining. You know, there was a really big boom starting in the mid 2010s and throughout the first year of Covid where there was a lot of buzz around plant-based meat sales were going up and up and up. But over the last year, that growth has stalled and in some categories it's even began to decline. Dang, people just aren't coming back for more.

0 (2m 58s):
Why? Why is that? Well,

2 (2m 59s):
I think ultimately it comes down to that most people just don't think it tastes good enough. They want something better, something that tastes even more like meat. Now I think a lot of these products are definitely an improvement on, you know, the early two thousands veggie burgers that tasted more like cardboard. But I think to the average person, a beyond burger isn't a perfect replica or nowhere near a perfect replica of a hamburger.

0 (3m 26s):
Hmm. And remind us, Kenny, what these companies beyond an impossible, what, what problem they're trying to solve.

2 (3m 31s):
There's not just one problem. There are several problems related to industrialized meat production. The first one is climate change globally, the meat, dairy, and eggs. We produce and eat account for about 15% of greenhouse gas emissions. So it's up there with other major polluters

5 (3m 53s):
And cows. Well, they burp a lot. And those burps are mostly methane, which is a greenhouse gas, 80 times more potent than carbon dioxide.

2 (4m 1s):
There is also the issue of antibiotic resistance. So most of the antibiotics used globally aren't being given to people in hospitals, but they're being fed to farmed animals to make them grow faster or as a way to prevent disease. As a result, bacteria on farms are growing resistant to these drugs, and in turn, making them less effective for humans. It's something public health researchers are really worried about.

6 (4m 30s):
Each year in the US alone, at least 2 million people become infected with bacteria resistant to antibiotics. And at least 23,000 people die as a direct result of those infections.

2 (4m 41s):
And then of course, there's also the question of animal suffering. You know, what does it mean that we raise and kill billions of animals in pretty terrible conditions every year when alternatives exist?

0 (4m 55s):
And so this is how we get to beyond an impossible, these plant-based meat alternatives. But, but that's not the news here. You are here with news that something else is going on concurrently, which is lab grown meat. How long have people been trying to develop lab grown meat? Well,

2 (5m 16s):
The idea first came from an unlikely source. Winston Churchill. What? Yeah, in the 1930s, years before he was the prime Minister of the United Kingdom, he wondered whether we'd ever be able to grow meat from animal cells rather than from live animals.

7 (5m 34s):
We fight on the beaches, we fight on the landing grounds, missile fight, or

8 (5m 40s):
More ethical and climate friendly meat alternative.

2 (5m 44s):
But it wasn't until the early two thousands that of all government agencies, NASA, put money into trying to actually make lab grown meat. Hmm. And they did it for astronauts in space. Are they all vegetarians? No. Their intention was that, you know, you, you can't bring live animals up into space. But their thinking was maybe we could make little lab grown meat factories in our spaceships. And so Wow. They gave some researchers money to grow Turkey cells, but also goldfish cells. Are we eating goldfish in space? We are not as, as far as I know, who knows what they're doing up there, but I, I don't know why they tried to grow goldfish of all species.

2 (6m 27s):
They were successful, but it was costly and nothing ever really came from it. It wasn't until about 10 years later that a Dutch scientist named Mark Post kicked off the whole lab grown meat craze that as we understand it today, he unveiled a $325,000 hamburger. Whoa. It was weighed in at just five ounces, so it was about a million dollars a pound and was really a way to show that this is possible. I

9 (6m 56s):
Was expecting the, the texture to be more soft. There's really a bite to it. It's close to meat. It's not that juicy.

2 (7m 7s):
And then beginning in 2016, a number of startups launched primarily in the San Francisco Bay area, trying to make affordable lab grown meat. And now there are over 100 around the world. Wow. There's been a lot of money poured into the field and there's also been a lot of hype with startups, promising products just around the corner that haven't come to fruition. Whether it's because of regulatory approval, which hasn't, you know, come yet or because of these technical and economic challenges that they face. So it's a long way off, if ever if this succeeds. But there is an in between a sort of bridge option Oh.

2 (7m 48s):
Known in the lab grown meat sector, which is called hybrid meat or blended meat. What's the hybrid? Fake meat and real meat? Not quite. So actually it's called hybrid because it's a mix of lab grown meat and plant-based meat. So like lab grown meat, this thing that's this moonshot plus the kind of beyond burger impossible meat kind of meat. Right. So the idea is combining the benefits of plant-based meat, that it's relatively cheap to produce consumers are familiar with it, and then mix in some animal cells, some lab grown meat to make it taste more like an animal. And to do it in a way that is more affordable than doing say a 100%, $325,000 lab grown hamburger.

2 (8m 34s):
How's it taste? Kenny? Have you tried it? I have, yeah. I tried a burger from a startup appropriately called Sci-Fi Foods, which is based right outside San Francisco. They got, they gotta rebrand sci-fi foods. No one's gonna buy

10 (8m 49s):
That. I first came across the idea of growing meat outside the animal, actually reading a science fiction book really? Almost 15 years ago. Wow. And I've been dreaming about making it possible ever since then.

2 (9m 1s):
Sean, go to their website right now. Go

0 (9m 3s):
There right now. Okay. Sci-fi

2 (9m 4s):
Foods. Yeah. You'll see that there are cows floating around in bubbles.

0 (9m 11s):
It's a serious, it looks like an eight year old dreamed up this website. Oh man. We're doomed.

2 (9m 18s):
Well, they are one of, you know, more than a hundred trying to do this. And I have to say though, it tasted, it tasted good, huh? It tasted like a better impossible burger, which is I think what they're going for. Hmm. They told me that what I tried was around 85% plant-based meat, you know, with soy protein as the main ingredient. And then 15% or so from lab grown meat.

0 (9m 44s):
You and I have been to dinner together before Kenny, so I feel like I can trust your, your taste here, but can we get a frame of reference for at least your meat consumption here? You're saying this tasted pretty good, better than impossible meat, but, but when was the last time you ate real meat,

2 (10m 1s):
If ever? So I'm busted here. So I am not the best taste tester for a lot of these startups because I have been vegan for about 15 years. 15

0 (10m 10s):
Years. How old are you?

2 (10m 13s):
I'm 35. So

0 (10m 15s):
You, you hardly remember what meat tastes like.

2 (10m 18s):
You know, I I'm not the best taste tester and so I'd love to hear what you think, Sean.

0 (10m 25s):
Wait, you want me to go to the sci-fi food company and try their, their bubbly cow food?

2 (10m 31s):
Well, I didn't give them a call, but there is a company nearby in the San Francisco Bay area called Eat Just that makes a cell cultured chicken product. Huh? I got to try it. I thought it was pretty good.

0 (10m 43s):
You know, I'm in California right now, Kenny.

2 (10m 46s):
Well you're in luck because the company eat just said that they'd be happy to have you taste some of their cell cultured chicken.

0 (10m 54s):
I'm going because they have a better name than Sci-fi Foods

2 (11m 0s):
Coming up. Sean and his mom visit a lab grown meat factory you are listening to today explained. I'm Kenny Terrell from Box.

0 (11m 21s):
Today's episode is supported by click up. If you're a New Year's resolution kind of person, you probably have some goals set out for this new year. Maybe you want to finally screen print some t-shirts. Maybe you wanna kick a bad habit or, you know, spend more time with your kids. I dunno what people do. What do you do anyway? Click up wants to help with your New Year's resolution by taking some things off of your plate. Namely clicking between 10 different platforms and tabs and docs and spreadsheets all year. Imagine all the time you'll spend doing that this year. And what if you could just dedicate all that time to, I don't know, spending more time with your kids?

0 (12m 5s):
If you're ready to start the new year off right for your business, you can check out, click up and use the code explained to get 15% off click ups. Massive unlimited plan for a year. Meaning you can start reclaiming your time for under $5 a month. Listeners can sign up today@clickup.com and use the code explained. You could take your team's productivity to the next level with click up today.

12 (12m 36s):
A spot announcement. Taste like chicken. Thank you spot. Here

13 (12m 39s):
We go.

2 (12m 41s):
Explained hello, it's me Kenny Tore with the word on the street on the meat beat once more. And the word on the street, one early morning in mid-December was that Sean and his mom known affectionately as Mama Chitz set out on a road trip through California's Central Valley

0 (13m 2s):
Today, explained Sean Ramer. Look at all the cows. Look at all the cows. Look at all the cows. Look. Look at the cows. Look at the cows. Sean Ramer in the car with mom. Ramer. Say hello, mom.

14 (13m 15s):
Hi.

0 (13m 16s):
We are passing thousands and thousands of cows on the side of the five freeway. Can we smell the manure yet? Oh, don't put the window down. No, no, no. We don't wanna smell it that bad. You can smell the cows. It's the privilege of driving between Los Angeles and San Francisco. You get to smell our meat addiction chits. Do you know where we're driving?

14 (13m 45s):
Yes.

0 (13m 46s):
Where?

14 (13m 47s):
Alameda.

0 (13m 48s):
Alameda, California, Alameda to eat. Just headquarters. Do you know what we're gonna do there?

14 (13m 53s):
Meat test.

0 (13m 54s):
We're gonna meat taste. Do you know what kind of meat?

14 (13m 57s):
Real meat and fake meat. Is it?

0 (14m 1s):
It's actually something in between. It's called hybrid meat. Are you excited?

14 (14m 6s):
I am looking forward to it.

2 (14m 10s):
Sean and Mama Chitz arrived at eat just in the mid-afternoon after walking their canine snowy. They asked her politely to wait in the car and headed in to the eat just lobby to meet company c e o. Joshua Terick. The startup vibes were dank to say the least.

15 (14m 29s):
You are like CEO in a

0 (14m 31s):
Beanie and a hoodie.

13 (14m 32s):
Well, you know where I'm headed. I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm headed to Appleton, Minnesota. We have one of our manufacturing facilities there. You know, December Appleton, Minnesota, Western Minnesota. Not appropriate for, for CEO clothes.

15 (14m 46s):
So tell me, are you a vegetarian? Are you a vegan?

13 (14m 49s):
What is it? How does it I Well, it's, we, we need a new term for me now because I'm vegan except I eat our chicken. And our chicken is definitely not vegan.

2 (14m 58s):
Joshua led Sean and Mama Chitz on a tour of the company's production facility. It was real live science on display.

13 (15m 6s):
So this is our soul culture area. So when you make real meat without the need to slaughter an animal, you've gotta start somewhere and you start with a cell. Yeah. So you can get that cell from a biopsy of an animal, get it from an egg, you get it from a cell bank. So those cells come here. Okay. And we begin the process of what's called developing the cell line. And all that means is let's try to figure out a way to move it from a single cell to many, many hundreds of millions of cells that ultimately look and feel and taste like the meat that you're, you're used to. So this is step one. They're characterizing the cell, they're understanding what enables the cell to grow, for example, what amino acids does it need?

13 (15m 50s):
Sugars, salts, fats, et cetera. And

0 (15m 53s):
What this looks like is like someone taking 50 covid tests at once almost with just like putting various liquid into small plastic tubes. None of the nostril stuff, but this is the lab grown meat part of the equation. Is that fair? This?

13 (16m 7s):
Yeah, definitely. Yeah. This is, this is where the research starts. It is a, it is a lab. We're trying to figure out a way to take a cell and scale it up. And this is, you know, millions of dollars of infrastructure and folks that we've recruited from pharmaceutical companies, they have PhD is again a molecular biology and, and cell biology. And they all come here because they want to use their energy to try to figure out a way to solve this meat thing.

0 (16m 31s):
I wonder if you could share with us maybe just general numbers, how much money will it take to get this to the place where, let's say, you know, a significant share of this country is eating cultivated

13 (16m 46s):
Meat. Well, I'll tell you my, my life goal is before I die, I want the majority of meat consumed on the planet to be free of slaughtering an animal and all the consequences that come with. That's what I want. And I'm hoping I die somewhere after 90 cuz I need a, a little bit

0 (17m 3s):
More. It's gonna take a

13 (17m 4s):
While. It's gonna take a while. I need a little bit, I need a little bit more time to make it happen.

2 (17m 7s):
After a while, Joshua had to go catch a flight, but his departure brought Sean and Mama Chitz To the moment we've all been waiting for the taste test. Could you take one of, perhaps you're expecting chicken breast. Well, on that fateful day, chef Chris had some other ideas.

16 (17m 23s):
Simple, but the chefs get to have a little bit of fun on some of these courses. It's fall. So we wanted to kind of bring in a lot of the seasonal flavors. So golden beets, sweet potatoes, Pepto seeds, POME Grant, a little bit of shard parsley. That's the salad underneath. It's gonna have a little bit of paprika and some cayan. You have a little kick. We don't wanna distract from what's on top though.

0 (17m 43s):
Yes. You haven't even mentioned the chicken yet, which looks to me like, like almost like pork rey or something. Yes.

16 (17m 49s):
Is actually chicken skin. It's one of our new, it's one of our newest developers.

0 (17m 53s):
Wow. Chits is smiling about the chicken skin. Are you excited? Yes. Why?

14 (17m 57s):
I taste it.

0 (17m 58s):
Why are you so excited?

14 (17m 59s):
Well, I do like chick crispy chicken skin.

0 (18m 4s):
She's a human who

16 (18m 5s):
Doesn't love crispy chicken skin. I know I do.

2 (18m 10s):
After they got done with the chicken skin, it was time for the peace DeRisi stones, a clay pot rice dish with panier chicken on top.

1 (18m 20s):
Mm.

0 (18m 21s):
Big moment chants. Here we go. I do like a little mix.

1 (18m 28s):
Hmm.

14 (18m 30s):
Taste real delicious.

0 (18m 36s):
It tastes like chicken

1 (18m 38s):
All

0 (18m 40s):
Mm.

1 (18m 41s):
Is it

14 (18m 42s):
Good? Yeah, it's like chicken nuggets but tastier. We taste it than chicken nuggets.

0 (18m 58s):
I gotta apologize right now to Kenny Terrell at Vox because the whole reason I'm here is that we said, Kenny, have you tried this lab cultivated meat? And he said, yeah, it's pretty good. And we said, but when was the last time you ate real meat? And he was like, you know, 20 years ago when I was in high school and now I'm sitting here and I've bitten into the fatty meaty chicken. And Kenny was right. It tastes exactly the same.

2 (19m 31s):
Oh it did. Well I, I accept your apology. I'd love to hear what you thought of it.

0 (19m 36s):
I mean, what I thought was they've done something rather extraordinary here. They've served me up some chicken that tastes just like chicken except no animal had to die for this chicken. But the process is gargantuan. I Is that true for the rest of the lab meat startups out there? Kenny, what are the big challenges that the industry's facing? You know, as

2 (19m 59s):
A whole? There are a lot. The first one is just figuring out how to make cells grow fast without what is called fetal bovine. Serum delicious

0 (20m 10s):
Septic.

2 (20m 12s):
It's the blood of a cow fetus and cell culture. You know, whether it's done for medical research or for this, you know, tiny industry of lab grown meat depends on the blood of a cow fetus. It makes cells grow really, really fast. And startups are obviously, you know, trying to get away from relying on it because it means killing an animal and it's very, very expensive. Another major challenge is preventing bacterial contamination. You know, around 20% of all animal production is lost to disease. Animals get sick, they die. And the same thing can happen to these cells. If bacteria makes its way into these facilities that are creating lab grown meat, it could spoil a batch and, you know, make a company lose out hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars.

2 (21m 3s):
Hmm. And another one is just the massive scale. There was one estimate that said that producing 10% of the global meat supply chain from lab grown meat would cost 2 trillion in factory costs.

0 (21m 17s):
2 trillion.

2 (21m 18s):
2 trillion. There are so many challenges ahead to scaling this up and competing with conventional meat on cost. But it's also worth pointing out that, you know, the factory farm system we have today has been a hundred years in the making and has benefited from a lot of governmental support in the way of subsidies and research and development. One thing often say is that the price of meat is artificial. It's animals who pay the cost. It's people who live near these factory farms who pay the cost. The the workers who, you know, toil in dangerous conditions. Meat may be cheap on the supermarket shelf or at a fast food menu, but there's someone paying the cost there.

0 (22m 1s):
Okay. So lab grown meat has a host of intimidating hurdles ahead from tech to financing to logistics. But Kenny, to quote Marvin and Tammy, or maybe Ashford and Simpson, ain't nothing like the real thing. And the real thing is real easy to do compared to all this work they're doing to make the alternative. What's it gonna take to get over that?

2 (22m 27s):
It's going to take a lot, they're gonna have to persuade consumers not to just to try this novel food product, but to actually come back and purchase it and start purchasing it instead of the factory farmed chicken. In surveys. So far, consumers are mixed. Usually a good amount will say that they are open to trying and eating lab grown chicken or other meats. But a survey is really different from consumer behavior. People say one thing in a survey, they do another thing when they're inside a grocery store. Mm. And they see price differences or they fall into what you just alluded to, the naturalistic fallacy.

2 (23m 8s):
If something is natural, even if it's bad for the planet, it's bad for the animals. That might be seen as preferable. A lot of the startup founders that I've talked to, maybe five years ago, they were hyping this up as something that's around the corner that's gonna totally disrupt the meat market. But I'm starting to hear more measured comments from founders saying that if this succeeds, it's gonna take not just years, but decades.

0 (23m 35s):
Well, Kenny, I I remember the last time we went out to dinner, it was, we went out for hot pot and there was a mix of vegetarians and, and carnivores at the table. But I look forward to the day where we can go to that hotpot spot in northern Virginia and and maybe have some, some lab grown meat on the table so that no animals can, can be harmed in, in the making of our dinner.

2 (23m 55s):
That'd be hot.

0 (24m 1s):
I love it. I think it works. I think it works.

2 (24m 8s):
That was Sean Ramas firm. He went to eat just with mom Ramas firm and snowy, who Lamentably didn't get to try any chicken. The program today was produced by Miles Bryan and edited by Julie Myers with help from Matthew Collette. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard with help from s Petros and Haidi. And we were mixed and mastered by AEM Shapiro and Paul Robert Mounting. I'm Kenny Terrell. This is today Explained.