1 (2s):
A lot of us have been hearing about the problem of ultra processed foods. They dysregulate our systems. We're told they trick our brains. There's even some speculation they're addictive. But why is everything so processed these days? There are some understandable reasons.

2 (17s):
Now. If, you grow cobs of corn And, you harvest them all at the end of August. And the public market for cobs of buttered corn with salt on them is very limited. you know, you only wanna eat them once, twice a week. So if you're a corn farmer, what you wanna do is turn your cob of corn into modified maize, starch modified corn protein isolate, high fructose corn syrup, corn oil. You want to create the base ingredients that have an infinite shelf life, nearly infinite and can be used in everything

1 (50s):
Coming up on today. Explained a doctor shares his research from a new book, ultra Processed People.

Fetch Pet Insurance (1m 1s):
Your pup deserves the very best, the best food, the best dog bed, the best medical care. With Fetch, Pet, Insurance, you can use any vet in the US or Canada and get paid back up to 90% on unexpected vet bills. Fetch Pet Insurance is the most comprehensive insurance for dogs and cats and covers more types of injury and illness than most other providers, including sick visit exams and breed specific issues. Get a fast and free quote at Fetch Pet dot com slash Vox.

Atlassian (1m 35s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian Atlassian Software like Jira, confluence and Trello help power global collaboration for all teams so they can accomplish everything that's impossible alone, because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. No matter if you're a team of two, 200 or 2 million Atlassian software keeps everyone connected and moving together as one towards shared company goals. Learn how to unleash the potential of your team at Atlassian dot com. That's A-T-L-A-S-S-I-A n.com.

4 (2m 7s):
Atlassian,

5 (2m 16s):
I have two pickles, I have two picks, I have two pickles today.

4 (2m 20s):
It's Blake.

5 (2m 22s):
Hey, hey, do big boy.

1 (2m 25s):
Dr. Chris Van Tuan is an infectious disease specialist. He's an advisor on food and nutrition to the World Health Organization and unicef. And he is not just a doctor. He also plays one on TV

0 (2m 39s):
Operation.

2 (2m 39s):
Ouch I mean. This is where I start to look. I'm spread a bit thin. I also do some broadcasting for the BBC about health and medicine and science for, for children and for adults. So I do a, I do a popular kid show here called Operation Ouch with my twin brother, which is very silly

0 (2m 54s):
And

1 (2m 54s):
Very fun. Dr. Chris got very interested in Ultra Processed foods or UPFs when he was on an assignment for the BBC about childhood obesity.

6 (3m 4s):
Dr. Chris Van Tulleken investigates the food we're feeding our children. It might

2 (3m 7s):
Change your brain forever really, if it could. and I was going to frame it as a very complicated mixture of genetics and socio-cultural factors and economic pressures and, you know, increasing amounts of food and also inactivity, you know, children not being on screens. It seemed obvious that this was a, a complex mess. And the more research I did, the more it seemed very obvious there was only one real cause of pandemic childhood obesity. And that is the marketing of industrially processed or ultra processed food.

1 (3m 40s):
What are these, what does this mean this term?

2 (3m 43s):
So for a really long time we've known that there are foods that harm us. The problem has been how do we describe this food? We've called it junk food, Processed food, but no one had ever formally tried to operationalize a definition for research. And then a team in Brazil observed this incredibly fast nutrition transition. And this happened across south and central America that obesity went from being essentially unheard of to in the space of, you know, a decade suddenly it was the dominant public health problem,

7 (4m 18s):
The soaring popularity of cheap fast food, lack of exercise, and lack of time to cook the result. Half of Brazilians are overweight and 16% are obese.

2 (4m 29s):
The scientists from Brazil tried to describe the, the, the very wide category of food that seemed to be driving this because they noticed that people weren't buying more salt and oil and sugar. What they were buying was salt oil and sugar in the form of these biscuits breads, confectionery ice cream, and soft drink sodas. And so they created a definition in 2009. And now we have over a decade of research, we've probably got 1500 scientific peer-reviewed papers directly studying Ultra Processed food, and then at least another 500 to a thousand papers that bring evidence to bear on the hypothesis that a poor diet means an Ultra process diet.

1 (5m 9s):
Where would I see them in the wild I mean Brazil. Okay, but I could also walk down to the supermarket, right? And find some,

2 (5m 16s):
So the definition, there's this long formal definition housed on the United Nations Food and Agriculture website. but it boils down to this, if something is wrapped in plastic and it contains at least one ingredient that you don't typically find in a domestic kitchen, then it's an Ultra processed food. And it's about 60% of the food on average that we eat in the UK or the USA or Canada Australia. It is our diet culture.

1 (5m 41s):
And the thing that I thought was remarkable reading your book is there are a lot of things that I thought were healthy or, or might've intuited were healthy in large part because they're sold to me as healthy food, but they do fit into that category. They're wrapped in plastic and they contain things not found in nature. Give me an example of some of the trickery here. Where do we find these things where we think, oh, that, that's healthy for me and it's actually not

2 (6m 9s):
A, a really good definition of ultra processed food would be any food with a health claim on the packet? Hmm? Low salt. Hey,

8 (6m 17s):
What humpy dumpty chips.

9 (6m 19s):
I mom about this 'cause I say low sodium,

2 (6m 21s):
Low fat,

10 (6m 23s):
Introducing new Skippy, reduced fat peanut butter. Its 30% less fat, plus the delicious skippy taste. You crave

2 (6m 30s):
Low sugar, try my

11 (6m 31s):
New pulse. Reduced sugar fruity bubble cereal even with half the sugar. It's fruit delicious.

2 (6m 37s):
The highend fiber and vitamin enriched fiber

12 (6m 40s):
Beyond recognition. Fiber one.

2 (6m 42s):
All of those products are very likely to be ultra processed. All breakfast cereal, including that the whole grain healthy ones If you look, they will contain high fructose corn syrup. They will contain emulsifiers, they will contain peculiar flour, protein isolates, flavoring stabilizers, all these things that make up Ultra processed food. Almost all of our bread that we eat I mean probably 95 to 98% of the bread consumed in the US and the UK is ultrapro. This was the category of stuff that I was most surprised by. 'cause I I used to buy these sort of seeded whole grain loaves that were very delicious.

2 (7m 23s):
It was called seven seed sensations. But right in the mis the middle of the ingredients list, you'll see things like mono and dye, acetyl tartaric acid, esters of monoglycerides of fatty acids. So we see these emulsifiers that are used to turn the bread into a kind of very soft spongy foam. So breads and cereals are what the ones that surprise people the most.

1 (7m 43s):
I got so disgusted reading your book that I, I bought a bread maker. I said, I can't do this anymore. I thought this was healthy. And, and then I'm looking at it and I mean it, it, it looks good, you know, it looks really good and it's full of fiber and it turns out it's also full of other stuff, right?

2 (8m 2s):
And I, I'm so pleased to hear that I, I am still at the spending $10 and, you know, asking that my family don't eat the bread too quickly. you know, I should get a bread maker.

1 (8m 13s):
So in the book, in the course of writing the book, you decided to do an experiment on yourself. Tell me about the experiment.

2 (8m 20s):
So this wasn't just a stunt for writing the book. So I'm, I'm in molecular biologist by training and I've switched my research focus over to nutrition via the, you know, the interesting companies that I described. So we are now running a big clinical trial about ultra processed food. And so I was the first patient in the trial to set up all the experience. you know, you have to work out what's gonna happen and what you should measure and what's gonna fly and what isn't. So this was done formally with all my colleagues at University College in London and our National HO Hospital of Neurology and neurosurgery. So I went on an 80% Ultra process diet for a month to see what would happen to my body.

2 (9m 1s):
Several journalists have kind of reported that I heroically put my body on the line for science. and I really didn't. I just ate a completely normal diet for an American teenager. 20% of people in Britain in the US eat 80% of their calories from ultra processed food. And, and a typical teenager eats 70, 80 or even 90%. So this, this was a normal diet.

1 (9m 22s):
What did you actually eat during that time? What was a typical day like for you?

2 (9m 26s):
I ate, you know, branded breakfast cereals, sometimes kind of healthy stuff like special K or Alpine or sometimes ate junky stuff like cocoa pops or crunchy, not corn flakes. Crunchy golden flakes covered in nuts and honey. All very normal breakfast. Lunch was a sandwich from a fancy chain like Prett, say hello to prett ps emulsified bread, malted extra in the condiments, and then a pack of crunchy stuff and a soda. And then dinner would be like a microwave ready meal. A frozen pizza,

13 (9m 54s):
A delivery. It's not delivery, it's du journo

2 (9m 56s):
Or a takeaway. I quite like, I'd get lots of different food for takeaway if it

14 (9m 60s):
Was delivered with Uber Eats. Does that mean I can eat it?

2 (10m 5s):
Oh no. So all all normal stuff.

1 (10m 8s):
What actually happened? When, you ate like a relatively normal person When, you put 80% UPFs into yourself.

2 (10m 14s):
Three things happened. First of all, I gained so much weight that I would've doubled my body weight in a year. If I'd continued, I gained over six kilos. This is an absolute agreement with all of the big data studies and the, and the clinical trial that we've got. This is, this is food that is engineered to drive weight gain. The second thing that happened was we did a series of scans that looked at connectivity between different bits of my brain. And the main thing we saw was this huge increase in connectivity between the habit, automatic behavior bits right at the back of the brain and those reward addiction bits right in the middle. And this was a very robust effect. We did serial MRIs and there was no question this, this wasn't noise.

2 (10m 56s):
you know, this was done by our medical physicists. We are very sure this was a real effect. We don't really know what that means. We dunno what it means for the kids who are growing up in their, you know, I'm, I'm 45, nothing's gonna happen to my brain other than slow degradation until I die, you know, but for, for kids eating these substances from birth there, there are really, really alarming signs that this is, this is permanently gonna change their brains. And then the third kind of major effect was that at the beginning of the end of the diet, I ate a standard meal, which was kind of like a big glass like this of a a, a sort of scientific milkshake. It had very fixed amounts of fat and protein and sugar. And then we measured all my hormones and how they respond to the meal.

2 (11m 38s):
And at the end of the diet, at the beginning, I responded normally at the end of the diet, at the end of the standard meal, my hunger hormones remain sky high. So this is food that is interfering with our body's ability to say, I am done. It is time to stop eating.

1 (11m 56s):
What happened to you, When, you stopped this diet. Was it hard to stop eating UPFs

2 (12m 1s):
In In a way the most interesting thing happened in the middle of the diet. you know, I was, I was in my early forties at the time and I had these two young kids and I was eating quite healthily 'cause I'm a doctor and suddenly I had this opportunity to go and eat all this junk that I'd eaten as a kid and as a, as a young student. and I was really looking forward to this diet. And the food started to become a bit waring midway through. and I spoke to a scientist in Brazil who I collaborate with Fernanda robber. And Fernanda kept saying, this isn't food, Chris, you mustn't think of it as food. It is an industrially produced edible substance. It has no nourishing value. Its purpose is to generate profit.

2 (12m 42s):
And she flicked some switch. In my head it was like falling out of love with someone. Or it was like the way the ex-smokers describe their habit. Or sometimes people who've lived with a substance addiction fall out of love with something very permanently. So by the end of the diet, I didn't just quit the food 'cause I knew it was bad for me. I quit the food because it had become disgusting to me.

1 (13m 9s):
Dr. Chris Van Tuan, did he just say, these foods are addictive, gonna press Dr. Chris coming up.

Quince (13m 24s):
Support for today, explain comes from Quince. Quince knows that you would love to give the world to those you love, but when the holidays roll around, the world is expensive. So when it comes to gifting luxury, there's one brand you can turn to for affordable, high quality pieces for someone on your gift list. And that is Quince. Quince selection of timeless essentials are stylish and sensibly priced. According to Quince, all their items are priced 50 to 80% less than similar brands. You can, for example, get one of their soft 100% Mongolian cashmere sweaters from just $50. Sarah Frank, my colleague works on the business side of things at Vox. Here's her experience with Quince. What I really enjoy about Quince is how their range of products, fabrics, and colors all go together, making it really easy for me to mix and match while still feeling stylish. You can get affordable luxury for everyone on your list with Quince. You can go to Quince dot com slash explained for free shipping on your order and 365 day returns. That's Q-U-I-N-C e.com/explain to get free shipping and 365 day returns. Quince dot com slash Explained

Atlassian (14m 38s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian Atlassian. Software like Jira, confluence and Trello help power the collaboration for teams to accomplish what would otherwise be impossible alone. Because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. That's why millions of teams around the world, including 75% of the Fortune 500 trust Atlassian software for everything from space exploration and green energy to delivering pizzas and podcasts. Whether you're a team of two, 200 or 2 million, or whether your team is around the corner, around another continent altogether, Atlassian software is built to help keep you all on the same page from start to finish. That way every one of your teams from engineering and IT to marketing, HR and legal can stay connected and moving together as one towards shared company-wide goals. Learn how to unleash the potential of your team at Atlassian dot com. That's A-T-L-A-S-S-I-A n.com Atlassian,

Pluralsight (15m 40s):
This episode is brought to you by Pluralsight. Your org needs teams skilled in tomorrow's tech today. Whether you want faster innovation, better customer experiences, or streamlined software delivery, those solutions require teams skilled and savvy in the latest technologies. Equip your people with the skills they need to make the most of today's tools and tech. Visit pluralsight.com/pod and try it for free.

17 (16m 9s):
Gimme that what? Gimme that

4 (16m 12s):
My today explained.

2 (16m 14s):
Yeah,

18 (16m 15s):
I actually would like to try,

1 (16m 17s):
We're back with medical and tv Dr. Chris Van Tulleken. Chris, earlier in the show when we were talking about your journey eating ultra processed foods as 80% of your diet, I felt like what you wanted to tell me was these foods are addictive, but you didn't want use the word addictive. Let's back up and let me ask you why it is that when I open up a bag of chips, I'm almost certainly gonna to eat the entire bag of chips. What is the science, and if we can't call it addiction, what can we call it?

2 (16m 49s):
I you are right. I did, I do angst about saying food addiction because I think for some people it sounds absurd or stigmatizing, but the truth is, we have overwhelming evidence that for some people, certain ultra process products are as addictive as drugs of abuse like cocaine or opiates or alcohol or nicotine tobacco products. They are really, really addictive. and I, I am one of those people, but we have really lots of different evidence. So the first thing that people listening might wanna reflect on is the definition of addiction, which is broadly the continued use of a substance or behavior that you know is harmful to you physically or psychologically despite repeated attempts to quit.

2 (17m 31s):
And despite that knowledge and ultra Processed foods definitely meets that criteria. Many of us find that we have these food products that we are unable to stop eating in the moment and unable to stop eating in general. We eat them, we finish the bag, but then we'll find ourself having another bag of chips or crunchy stuff at the next meal.

19 (17m 50s):
So I'll have a little treat, a little biscuit or a small bowl of crisps or some strawberries from Nutella, something like that. And more often than not, this will completely set me off. and I want to demolish the entire packet of crisps.

2 (18m 1s):
The problem with defining any food as addictive is that baked into the idea of addiction is the idea of abstinence. And, you can't be abstinent from food. So the evidence that they are addictive beyond the simple obvious thought experiment is that the genetic factors that predispose you to other addictions also predispose you to food addiction. The social factors like poverty and trauma similarly pre predispose you to food addiction and other addictions. So one of the arguments the food industry is making against me quite aggressively at the moment online and in other places, is that by demonizing Ultra Processed foods, which I, which I hope I actually don't do, you know, moderate intake for many people is absolutely fine.

2 (18m 44s):
But by demonizing them, I'm actually creating eating disorders. I would say that we are gathering evidence, I'm working with our Royal College of Psychiatrists, the eating disorders faculty, and there is a growing consensus that these are the foods that drive eating disorders. That they are foods that disregulate and disrupt our relationship with food and taste and flavor and community. And they are the engines of much of the problem. So I think addiction to these products is real and many people listening will be living with that addiction.

1 (19m 14s):
When, you say they dysregulate and disrupt our systems. What do you mean by that? What does that actually look like inside of me? So

2 (19m 20s):
We are sure that Ultra processed food does cause harm. We've got a clinical trial, we've got lots of big epidemiological data linking it to cancers, cardiometabolic disease, anxiety, depression, dementia, early death, inflammatory disease. There's a, there's a long list and most obviously weight gain. One of the things that we are really trying to understand in more detail is how does it do all this? And we have quite a lot of ideas. So when it comes to excess consumption, Ultra processed food is incredibly soft and it's incredibly energy dense. And it's soft because of all the physical processing it's made of modified corn starch, corn oil, and high fructose corn syrup, which are then textured.

2 (19m 60s):
So the food structure has been almost pre-digested. It's pre chewed, so it's soft, it's energy dense because it lacks water. The softness plus the high calories per gram mean that you consume calories incredibly quickly, essentially quicker than your body can say, you know what, I am done, I'm gonna stop eating now. And everyone will have had that experience of you can eat an 800 calorie burger and another 600 calories of fries and then another four 500 calories of soda And. you can do it all in 10 minutes when you've consumed your entire day's worth of calories, If, you were eating real food, it would take you half an hour of chewing and slow mastication, all of which would start releasing the, the hormones inside you and the neural signals that say it's, it's time to stop now.

2 (20m 46s):
And

1 (20m 46s):
It's not fun. I would just, I just wanna throw in that, that that half an hour of eating real food, it's not nearly as fun as eating french fries.

2 (20m 55s):
Oh, well that's intriguing. So I might dispute that, or rather there is sometimes people will say, oh, but Chris, this food is delicious. We have quite a lot of evidence that this food is delicious in the same way that cigarettes are delicious. You, you like the first puff you, you know, with alcohol, we like the first sip, we like the first bite of the burger actually toward the end of the, the meal of french fries and soda. Most people aren't enjoying it anymore. That's true. And we have a lot of evidence. Yeah, this food is not actually delicious. Yeah, people don't like it, but they do want it. And liking things, which is, which is a good thing, is very neurologically distinct from wanting things and the, the wanting craving bit of the brain, that's the addictive bit.

2 (21m 40s):
But the main thing I think that people are starting to understand, and this is the focus of a lot of my recent research, is it's not one aspect of ultra processed food that you can point to. It's not the flavor enhancers or the salt fat sugar ratio or the fact they add acid or any one aspect. It's that every single dial on every product has been dialed up to 11.

1 (22m 0s):
Let's talk about the companies If. you and other doctors, medical doctors are aware that these foods are unhealthy, that they're doing bad things to us. I assume that the companies that are selling them to us know the same. Are there any incentives to get those companies to change the way they're packaging and selling food to us a and change what they are putting in, what they sell to us as food?

2 (22m 23s):
Not really. In, in the United States, there is no warning on any of your food. There is nothing on your food that says this is healthy food or this is unhealthy food, this is real food, or this is ultra Processed food in the US I'm and I Love America. So I'm sorry, this does sound kind of ranty and about America, but you have no functional regulation of any of your food additives. So no one, including the Food and Drug Administration, has any definitive list of all the different chemicals that are added to food. It's somewhere between 5,000 and 15,000, but no one has the exact number. None of it is tested. And when it comes to flavors, they're a completely separate category. They're entirely regulated by the Flavor Manufacturers Association.

2 (23m 6s):
So they, they are, it's just industry marks, its own homework. So there is no way for a normal consumer to decide what food is healthy and what isn't in the US and what we know, because I've been studying this for some years, is that within the industry, their hands are actually tied. So what's easy is to throw rocks at McDonald's or Pepsi or Coca-Cola, Nestle, any of the, the big food giants. Some of those companies have made sincere efforts to try and clean up their act. I mean they, they weren't big efforts, but they were efforts in each case, activist investors, the people who own the company, usually big institutions got involved and fired in some cases the CEOs, all cases, the boards that were making these decisions.

2 (23m 49s):
So even if the companies want to change, the company's purpose is to deliver financialized growth to their owners. Their owners are your pension, my pension, it's, you know, big institution investors, Vanguard, BlackRock, UBS, Jupiter. And so the companies are stuck where they cannot change. Now the people who can change them are the government. And what we see in your country and in mine is a very close relationship between industry and government. So rather than writing policy at arms length like we do with tobacco, where there are no conflicts of interest, food policy is more or less written by the industry, it concerns. And so we have an environment where almost everything we eat is ultra processed.

1 (24m 35s):
You know, I'm, I'm thinking about potential solutions and I know that some of our listeners will get upset with me for saying, you know, I bought a bread maker, it costs $70. This is not a cheap thing and it also takes time and I, I don't have kids so I, you know, have the time to do this. But I understand that a lot of people will respond to this and say, what the hell do you want me to do about it? Right? I'm one person and I'm busy and I'm broke and it, et cetera. Do you have a satisfying answer to that Dr. Van Token?

2 (25m 3s):
No, I don't. Not really. We are in the 1960s when it comes to tobacco control. So we are sure that this category of products is harming you. There is no regulation and for many people this is the only affordable available food. So I'm very conscious in these interviews that the people who are most affected are not people like you and I we can afford. you know, I can, I can Josh about spending $12 on a loaf of bread. It is an obscenity that real bread, which should be the foundational food of the human diet, is absolutely unaffordable for the vast majority of people, especially at the moment. And the people who are most affected are low-income groups. People of color already marginalized people and they're essentially forced to eat terrible food.

2 (25m 46s):
So people should be raging about this. If people listening feel addicted, then the proposal is a fairly simple one. Treat it like cigarettes, And, you may find the food becomes disgusting. What I promise you is that at that moment your life will get more expensive and time consuming. And I think people have to make this journey from, from being a victim to being, being an activist quite quickly. Because what, what we have to do is regulate these companies.

1 (26m 27s):
Chris Van Tulleken, his new book is Ultra Processed People and If, you read it, I can almost guarantee you're gonna find yourself buying a bread maker. Today's show was produced by SI Petros and edited by Matthew Collette. It was Fact-checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Patrick Boyd today explained is gonna be off next week. But If, you need us during the holidays. You can check back in the feed on Wednesday and Thursday for some of our greatest hits. I'm Noel King.

1 (26m 52s):
Happy holidays

Mint Mobile (27m 24s):
Support for today. Explain comes from Mint Mobile. You can treat yourself to some savings this holiday season by taking advantage of Mint Mobile's top wireless offer of the year. Right now If, you make the switch to Mint Mobile and by any three month plan, you'll receive an additional three months free for a limited time. You can buy any three month Mint Mobile plan and get three more months free by going to Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. That's Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. New customers only. Guys. Additional Taxes fees and restrictions apply. See Mint Mobile for details.