1 (9s):
It's today explained I'm Halima Shaw this past Christmas marked 30 years since the fall of the Soviet union. And today we're seeing unrest in the republics that formed or re-emerged in the aftermath. Kazakhstan is seeing some of the biggest protests in the country's history and dozens of civilians were killed today and a conflict that's been simmering since Russia's 2014, annexation of Crimea is erupting along the Ukrainian Russian border. Russia

2 (39s):
Has for weeks been massing, troops and tanks along the Ukrainian border, prompting, Ukraine, Poland, and Lithuania to call for more Western sanctions against it. In fear of an event,

1 (50s):
The villages along Ukraine's border with Russia have been disrupted by military checkpoints and shifting contact lines for almost a decade now, but escalating conflict in recent weeks has these communities living in constant fear in shore

3 (1m 5s):
In recent weeks, Russian president Vladimir Putin stands accused by the west amassing more than 100,000 service men next to Russia's border with Ukraine

1 (1m 17s):
<em></em> is a human rights journalist. She reported from the Ukrainian side of the border for Al Jazeera and

3 (1m 23s):
Security incidents, such as shelling and shooting in the war zone have intensified in the war zone since November, 2021 and a Ukrainian soldier was killed in December.

4 (1m 38s):
It is extremely important now to send a clear message to Russia about reducing tensions, be transparent and avoid any type of escalation of the situation in and around Ukraine

3 (1m 54s):
Tensions further rose after building where Putin sit out security demands that NATO rejected immediately. And meanwhile, on the ground along the contact line, people suffer and lose hope. Many of them hear shelling and shooting on a daily basis or on a weekly basis. And they are simply terrified.

1 (2m 15s):
Sarah said the region has been hollowed out by eight years of conflict.

3 (2m 20s):
The contact line is the line that divides the government controlled area from the <em></em> regions of . And it's a 400 kilometer long line that goes through villages and settlements. This region is for the most part, a very rural region while I was there in December, 2021, it was also very, very cold. It was minus 14 outside, which makes it all the more difficult for the local populations to survive there right now. And when you drive through the region, you will see that there's signs warning against landmines, which makes it very, very dangerous, particularly for children or anyone really that's playing or walking outside or in the woods.

3 (3m 7s):
You know, some of the villages and some of the towns have been completely destroyed by the war in 2014 and 2015. And you can see signs and writings on the gates and on the houses where people marked please do not shoot because people live here and some of the villages have been completely destroyed. So who did you see and speak to when you were there? One of the particular aspects of the Ukrainian conflict is that there is a very high percentage of the elderly people and of disabled people who live in the war zone. According to the key office of the European civil protection and humanitarian aid operation, there's 3.4 million people in Eastern Ukraine who are in need of humanitarian assistance.

3 (3m 56s):
And 1.3 million elderly persons. So oftentimes these very, very vulnerable elderly people live in abandoned houses in villages or towns that essentially look, look like ghost towns because they had been entirely destroyed by shelling and shooting. I interviewed a woman named Vera He was 76 year old and lives near the town of chassis of Yarra in Eastern Ukraine. That is very close to a shooting range where military personnel kind of train and shoot guns and machine guns.

3 (4m 36s):
And Vera told me that she had shooting all the time all day, every day. And she was essentially terrified of it. And she also had some, some health problems. He became blind in 2014 after being a victim of heavy shelling and like many other people in this region, she was, she was really going through depressive episode and she was talking about suicide. Unfortunately like many other people you might interview to opening in this war zone for, for nearly eight years now, Vera, because she was blind was also telling me that she was in a particularly vulnerable position because people, people stole money of her, right.

3 (5m 23s):
It was very difficult for her to hide her money, to keep her money, to go outside, to, to buy food. And she was telling me she was describing how, you know, the only thing she could think about when she woke up in the morning was where to find a piece of bread. And for me as a journalist, this was honestly speaking the first time that I've seen a woman crying and telling me I have nothing to eat, I'm starving. I've been starving for years.

1 (5m 57s):
Well, what happened to various family? Who can she turn to at this point?

3 (6m 4s):
So there are never had her own children and her husband had already died. So she was pretty much left alone and she received some help from local volunteers and social workers and NGOs, also many, many of the families and many of the people who live there. Do you have relatives in this parish regions? So families and friends have been divided and some of them, you know, can, can not see each other, especially right now because the contact line is closed. It's not possible to cross to the separatist regions. They used to be a crossing point in instant Italo hands, but it was closed recently due to COVID.

3 (6m 53s):
And so some of the people are, are also very isolated because their family lives on the other side of the contact line. So

1 (7m 1s):
People who are living along the border are exposed to frequent shelling and might even be cut off from their families because the contact line basically runs through their community. Have a lot of people fled the region because of this conflict.

3 (7m 15s):
So there has been a massive, massive displacement crisis following 2014 and 15 events where when a lot of people fled all across Ukraine, I myself have, I've done a reporting trip in, in a border town called , which is very close to the border with my home country Slovakia. And I've spoken to dozens, if not hundreds of, of internally displaced persons who fled more than 2000 kilometers just to, to flee Eastern Ukraine. And he fled toward the west of the country right now, I would say the situation is slightly different because as I mentioned, it's mostly the most vulnerable people or people who cannot or do not want to leave because this is another aspect of it is that many of the elderly people don't necessarily want to leave.

3 (8m 11s):
I've interviewed a lady who lives directly on the contact line and it's, to me, it was one of the worst places on earth that I've ever seen because she has trenches near her garden. And there's, you know, signs, warning against snipers and landmines everywhere. And she was telling me, I've lived in this house, my entire life, and I'm almost 90 and I don't want to leave. I simply don't want to leave. So right now the situation is slightly different because most of the populations who, who now live on the contact line are people who do not want to leave or are unable to leave because they are in a particularly vulnerable condition.

1 (8m 51s):
It doesn't seem like we have indication that this conflict end any time soon. How are people coping with it, stretching into its eighth year?

3 (9m 1s):
We should not forget that these are people who have already been heavily traumatized in 2014 and 2015. So many of these people are kind of reliving the same trauma over again. And so we are really talking about a war zone and about a conflict that is affecting the most vulnerable of the most vulnerable people. This elderly couple, their names were Alexandra and Yvonne and the Ukrainian who would say , which means grandmother and grandfather. And it was very, very touching for me because these people have a lot of resilience and sense of humor, and they are very kind, this old lady, Alexandra, she was so happy to see, you know, to see me and to see another person because these populations and these people are very, very isolated as well.

3 (9m 57s):
So oftentimes when you go, when you go to these villages, as a journalists, people are very happy that they see someone new. And the old lady immediately told me to come and sit next to her. And she said, don't worry, I'm vaccinated. So you can come and approach me and sit next to me and take a picture. And when I sat next to her, she immediately hugged me and you know, it was Christmas day. So it was, it was a particularly special moment. And it was so sad to leave this, this place and this war zone as a journalist, you know, as this happens, oftentimes that he leave a war zone and Eva kind of worried for the local populations who have to just stay there.

3 (10m 37s):
You can only hope that nothing worse will happen to them

1 (10m 57s):
After the break, the decades old roots of this conflict and why it probably won't end any time soon, Amy MacKinnon, national security reporter with foreign policy magazine. A lot of this conflict along Ukraine's Eastern border can be traced back to eight years ago when Russia took over Crimea. But there's another historical marker to think about here, which is that this past Christmas marked 30 years, since the collapse of the Soviet union, how is that playing into this conflict?

8 (11m 48s):
So 30 years ago, when the Soviet union collapsed, it was the, of a, of an empire, but it was also the birth of over a dozen countries. Some of them for the first time, some of them had, had previously been independent before as the epicenter of the, of what was the Soviet union. Moscow has grappled with that ever since on many levels, what does it mean culturally? What does it mean for their identity, but also in a large way, what does it mean for, for Russia security and a central source for Russia's anxieties at a key sticking point in Russia's relationship with both Europe and the United States, since the collapse of the Soviet union has been the question of NATO expansion.

8 (12m 31s):
NATO has expanded in several waves starting in 1999 to include former members of the Eastern block, as well as former states of the Soviet union, the Baltic states. And this is something which, you know, Moscow has turned to again and again, as recently as late December in his annual press conference, Putin said that the west had lied, that they'd been betrayed.

9 (12m 51s):
It was a way of strengthening of us and NATO, military groupings on Russia's border. And the organization of large-scale military maneuvers are a serious cause for concern,

8 (13m 4s):
That's certainly been a central point of Russian grievances and to a large degree, also Russian propaganda justifying this, this current buildup and the saber rattling that we're seeing this buildup

1 (13m 16s):
Of Russian troops along the border. How different is it from what you crane saw in 2014?

8 (13m 23s):
It is different in that they're incredibly surrounded now because of the positions that Russia has, you know, we've been getting maps from the Ukrainian defense ministry from officials there that they're using to brief allies. And it, you know, looking at these maps, it really lays clear just how much a huge part of Ukraine is really encircled by either Russia itself, or there's a huge border with Belarus, which is an incredibly close ally of Russia, which has deep, deep military ties with Russia, but also Crimea itself, which is now under Russian control and has a substantial Russian presence there as well to the south. So Russia has several pressure points.

8 (14m 4s):
You know, if you look at it on a map, it's almost kind of a pincer several pressure points from which it could extract real pain on Ukraine. If it wanted to. I mean, there's very deep and very real concern about Russia's intentions. I mean, during the cold war, Russia proved more than willing to invade members of its own security block members of the worst ELPAC, Czechoslovakia and Hungary. And, you know, since the collapse of the Soviet union has proven more than willing to invade its neighbors.

10 (14m 31s):
This was the scene early on August, the eighth, 2008 as Georgian rockets pounded the breakaway region of south . It was the opening of a devastating five day war between Russia and Georgia with each side, blaming the other for setting it off

8 (14m 48s):
That went to war with Georgia in 2008, 2014, part of Ukraine, Crimea, it supported separatists rebels in Eastern Ukraine.

12 (14m 59s):
We are Orthodox Russians and we are Russian speakers living in Donbass. This commander says we don't recognize the Ukrainian government and defending my family, my world, and my authenticity

8 (15m 11s):
Concerns around this buildup or our bill on a very real history about the lengths that Russia is willing to go to influence the geopolitics of this neighboring states.

1 (15m 21s):
Amy, there's been years of conflict here. Why does it seem like it's all coming to a head now

8 (15m 26s):
There's kind of many layers to it. The election of a Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky in 2019, I think was a contributing factor to this.

11 (15m 37s):
Anatomy has Zelenskyi arrived to his inauguration on foot, the crowds delighted with the man they've known for years as a comic touch on their TV screens. He stopped for selfies and high five.

8 (15m 49s):
You know, he campaigned, he was a political neophyte. He was a comedian. He campaigned on a platform of resolving the conflict in the Donbass and Eastern Ukraine. I think the Kremlin saw somebody who they perceive to be weak and that they could manipulate and maybe push into making concessions, which would be damaging to Ukraine sovereignty and give, give Russia more leverage. But actually as Alan ski has proven to be a pretty shrewd politician.

13 (16m 14s):
<em></em> the military does everything possible to defend our country and to maintain the ceasefire, but when our soldiers are attacked and when there are casualties, it's clear to everyone that the army risks

8 (16m 31s):
Whilst there were some glimmers of hope in the very early days of restarting peace talks. I think the more that he dealt with the Russians and the more the Russians dug their heels in, he started to harden his attitudes and it became clear that he, you know, he was not going to be a pushover on this issues. I think the Kremlin has increasingly realized that the situation is not going in their favor, that, you know, one of the ways to basically force it to head to their favorite, maybe using forest. And then I think there's the broader international context as well. I think when, when the Kremlin looks to the west, looks to the Europe and the United States, it sees chaos. It sees division, you know, partly from the pandemic, but also from our own domestic political crisis. He looks to Washington, which is, you know, very, very laser focused on the China challenge right now.

8 (17m 13s):
And I think that, I think that the Kremlin has just seen an opportunity at this moment in which I think it feels it may be able to force the west to the negotiating table and to get some, get some key concessions on, on European security

1 (17m 27s):
And his response from Western and NATO allies different this time around than when Russia first invaded the Crimean peninsula back in 2014.

8 (17m 36s):
I think the one advantage that the west has had this time round is they've had a, a long buildup that if Russia does invade, there has been several months to, to rally and partners in Europe and to try and build a response. Cause a lot of countries were just caught completely off guard in 2014 when Russia sees the Crimean peninsula events escalated really quite quickly. But, but this time around, I mean, we had a little bit of a preview in the spring when the Russian military buildup started along the borders of Ukraine. There's always been

11 (18m 9s):
In a military base here, but it is massively expanded in the last few weeks from the satellite imagery. There are more than 500 military vehicles currently based there from us just driving past. It would appear that there are even more

8 (18m 22s):
Over a hundred thousand troops and most of them stayed, some were pulled back, but the vast majority stayed in the region. And then this buildup began again in the late fall. And very early on, what was interesting was in the spring, of course there were, you know, any kind of unexplained mobilization like that causes alarm, but very quickly in the fall, people in the U S U S officials here in Washington started to use the word invasion, American

14 (18m 49s):
Stop diplomat, sending a direct warning to Russia. If you invade Ukraine, there will be severe costs and consequences

8 (18m 58s):
Worried about was they were worried about renewed invasion. And so clearly the us is seeing some intelligence, which has it very, very spooked. And they were very quick off the bat to start sharing that with Ukraine first and foremost, but also with allies in NATO and in Europe to really get everybody on the same page about, but what Russia's intentions may be in to start formulating that response,

1 (19m 22s):
Does that mean Ukraine is better prepared to fight the Russian military today than it was in 2014.

8 (19m 29s):
We've had more time this time around the army is better prepared. They've had much more support in bolstering that that army they've received a substantial defensive weaponry from, from the U S including anti-tank javelin missiles, which was something that the Trump administration provided that had been seen as a, a red line. And they Bama era or fierce that it went, it would provoke Russia, but they've been given substansive support. Morale is of course, very high. You know, this is an existential crisis for the Ukrainians. I mean, they know, you know, someone said to me a few weeks ago, the Ukrainians know why they're, you know, they're defending their country. They know why they're fighting this war, you know, can the same be said for Russian soldiers, which are, which may be sent across the border.

8 (20m 9s):
That's, you know, not clear

1 (20m 11s):
Earlier we heard from a reporter who said that people who are living in these border regions are really starting to lose hope after about eight years of conflict. They're not particularly hopeful that they're going to see an end to this anytime soon.

8 (20m 26s):
I think nobody sees an easy roadmap out of the, out of the current buildup and out of the current crisis. Ultimately, if you know us and European officials are saying they still don't think Putin has made up his mind and what he wants to do. But the sad reality, I think for Ukraine is that ultimately Ukraine's security, it's geopolitical direction, whether it moves closer to the west, or it remains in Russia's orbit, those questions mean far more to Moscow than they do to Washington. And if, if Putin decides that he wants to invade, there's not a lot, you know, the, the Ukrainian military as far as much stronger, a much more formidable than it was, but, you know, they're still greatly outmatched by the size of the Russian forces.

1 (21m 15s):
How likely is Russia to actually go there to invade the entire country with its full force?

8 (21m 21s):
I would not put money on that. I get asked that a lot. It's the, obviously the, the big question on everybody's mind. And I just don't know. And that even, even that, you know, scares me in the spring during the buildup, I felt like, okay, this is clearly funky, something's going on, but I didn't feel like it was headed for an invasion, but this time round just seeing the sheer alarm from us, officials, whatever they're seeing is clear, they alarming them. And by extension that's, that's definitely alarming me. I think a lot will become clear next week, where there's a series of talks between us and Russian officials in Geneva on January 10th and then it NATO and at the OSC, the organization for security and cooperation in Europe.

8 (22m 7s):
And I think it will be interesting to see there whether or not they make any progress because Russia has made these demands for security guarantees, but there's kind of two baskets within those demands. They've the first set of demands, really centers on NATO. That there'll be no further nature expansion that NATO not put troops and material and countries that joined after 1997. And I think that's going to be a non-starter, you know, both NATO secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg has many member states have, have said, Ukraine has its own right to determine its own security organization. And you know, what Alliance does it wants to join?

4 (22m 42s):
The relationship with Ukraine is going to be decided by the 13, $8 and Ukraine.

8 (22m 50s):
But the second basket of issues is about broader issues of European security. That's arms control. That's the balances of forces in Europe. That's something which it may also be in the U S interest to have conversations with Russia about and see if there's a way to kind of alter those balances, which could make both sides feel safer.

1 (23m 7s):
Could things escalate to the point that Western leaders intervene beyond sanctioning Russia and having tense exchanges with Putin?

8 (23m 17s):
No, the U S has been pretty clear. President Biden has been very clear that send troops or U S forces to support the Ukrainians in this. And I think other European leaders have been pretty clear that that's also not on the table. Ukraine means more to Putin than it does to that us to the west. He's willing to send troops to fight and die, to keep Ukraine within its orbit, but that's just not something which is, which is on the agenda. I think for, for Europe and the west,

1 (23m 58s):
Amy MacKinnon is a national security reporter for foreign policy magazine, who has reported from across Eastern Europe. Sarah sink, Europa, who we heard from earlier is a freelance human rights journalist today's show was produced by Victoria Chamberlain. I'm Halima Shaw, and Sean Rama's farm. We'll be back with us next week. It's today explained.