4 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from revisionist history. It's a podcast from Malcolm Gladwell and noted Canadian. Do you guys like podcasts hosted by Canadians? This one follows gladwell's Journeys through the overlooked and the Misunderstood every episode re-examine something from the past and event a person idea even a song and asks, whether we got it, right the first time the new season attempts to understand our attachments to objects rituals traditions and memories new episodes drop every Thursday through August. It revisionist history from Pushkin Industries. Listen now on Apple podcast Spotify or wherever you get your podcasts

1 (40s):
world champion soccer player and trailblazing activist Megan. Rapinoe is coming to HBO

2 (44s):
Sports in seeing America with Megan Rapinoe the iconic star athlete host of fearless conversation with representative Alexandria, Ocasio Cortez Pulitzer prize-winning journalist, Nicole Hannah Jones and acclaimed television host Hasan minhaj watch these changemakers come together. To talk about the challenges we face as a nation seeing America with Megan Rapinoe premieres Saturday August 1st at 10 p.m. On HBO stream it on HBO Mac.

4 (1m 24s):
We're coming up on five months since much of the country shut down to contain covid-19. And I think it's fair to say the country hasn't been the same since but today on the show. We want to find out how people who have had covid are doing those who have survived. It was about five months ago. I spoke to Carl who got covid on the Diamond Princess cruise ship. I spoke to him again last night. Hello Carl. Hey

2 (1m 48s):
Sean, how are you doing

4 (1m 49s):
doing? Well, but it looks like you might be back in the hospital.

2 (1m 53s):
Yeah. I'm back in the hospital, but I'm okay. I'm glad to hear

4 (1m 57s):
that the last time we spoke you were at a quarantine facility in Omaha, Nebraska. And this was I believe early Marsh. Does that sound right to you?

2 (2m 9s):
Yeah. I ended up being there for 29 days climbing the walls to get out of

4 (2m 14s):
there substantial. Okay. So 29 days in a quarantine facility what happened over the course of those 29 days? Why did it take so long to get

2 (2m 23s):
out they Don't know it right now the CDC back then said I have two negative results and it just took that long and I did the doctor kept handing the results on a Post-It note. I mean it was like the Grim Reaper coming in he change colors everyone. So I live more I've a collection of Post-it notes with my negatives and positives on there, but I kept testing positive for a long long long long time

4 (2m 51s):
and So eventually what one day you just tested Goodness. Yeah, when they tested negative and

2 (2m 56s):
then the next and we had to wait two days two days later. I tested negative and I was a free man.

4 (3m 5s):
What did you do then? Did they put you back on a private plane? Or did you just get to walk over to the

2 (3m 9s):
airport a private playing a friend that got me a charter private plane that went from Omaha back to Southern California and then a friend picked me up in a long stretch. Limo and it Got me a giant bowl of my favorite ice cream. So I had the peanut butter cup ice cream.

4 (3m 31s):
Wow, Carlisle. I've heard a lot of sad stories about covid-19. But that is a happy ending to a pretty rough start there.

2 (3m 39s):
Absolutely. But as you as where I'm sitting right now is back in the hospital. So what happened is my body, I think at least the doctors seem to think that makes sense my body did a great job of fighting Corona, but I had Precondition of what's called GBS Guillain-Barre syndrome, which is why they put me in the isolation unit to begin with the quarantine unit biocontainment unit. My body did a great job of fighting the young the covid-19, but I couldn't touch the GBS in the doctors couldn't touch the GBS while I was sitting there the 29 days plus the all the time on the Diamond Princess.

2 (4m 24s):
So here I am now with numb legs numb feet. It's a condition called c i d p which is a chronic version. They've now tried two different kinds of treatments for me. So this is my second round in the hospital since I returned home at the mid-march, and I've got about a week of therapy to learn to walk again. Wow. Now the one cool thing I want to share with you and your listeners is that we were invited my wife. And I were invited back to the White House in April and it was very magical and I say this to everyone if Obama had invited me back.

2 (5m 4s):
I would be just as a thrill but having a vice president Pence spend the whole day with us in a staff and then President Trump was supposed to spend about five minutes with us which ended up being about an hour and a half. But this was great. I thought so good Mike I think about this will take five minutes. And it's taking a lot longer than five minutes and that's because I found it. So interesting this group there were eight of us who are from different walks of life different Spectra ends of the spectrum politically and different experiences with covid-19 President. I wanted to have a chance to see all of you to let the country hear your stories because while we rightly as a nation reflect on the more than 23,000 Americans who have Onto the coronavirus as a tribute to our health care workers.

2 (5m 58s):
We also do well to reflect on more than 44 thousand Americans who have fully recovered in your among.

4 (6m 5s):
So you traveled to DC and you didn't say hello to us. We're all here in DC Carl.

2 (6m 9s):
I know they shipped us right off to a hotel. We're all in quarantine, of

4 (6m 15s):
course. Okay fair, other than you GBS acting up and leading to this chronic CID. DP. Have you had any lingering effects of covid directly?

2 (6m 28s):
Yeah, they're still doing I signed up back when I was in Nebraska for a clinical study. So they're still following me right now to see what it was and they took many many tests there and then our blood one of the hospitals here Providence took our blood because my wife was in a cesspool of Corona and never got it she even She was in that Cesspool of Corona never got the virus and and they tested her and she's got

1 (7m 1s):
no antibodies are

2 (7m 2s):
very few showing the virus and they're that but what they did is they took out her T cells and her T cells are like kind of like a Superman they touched the virus and instantly kill it. So they brought in all varieties of coronavirus from around the world, which I think is some 20 or 30 different species of the iris did the same thing with the T cells and the same thing happened or T-cells instantly killed every one of the viruses. So now they're digging deeper to try and figure out what's in her blood that makes her the Superwoman and see if they can get some answers that way so they're studying us from the various degrees obviously with see IDP now and GBS having had Corona having had covid-19 there watching very carefully to see What transpires both can be deadly if they get in the lungs?

2 (7m 59s):
I've been very little very lucky that neither has gotten in my lungs. So I've been very good with that. Although I have noticed that my voice is much Whisperer. I'm a broadcast guy to We Own the local radio station out here and usually have a booming voice but that disappeared about three weeks ago, and I don't know nor do the doctors know if it's Something totally unique if it's dealing with and tied in with the IDP or if it is post Corona, we may never know the answer to that and I'm finding little things with that that our after effects and again with each of those.

2 (8m 39s):
I'm having trouble distinguishing if it was between see IDP or Corona.

4 (8m 47s):
And in the meantime, what's your disposition? How do you feel are you are you feeling

2 (8m 52s):
lucky that you create? Are you feeling logically? I still have my sense of humor. I plan to I've got a goal of skiing again next winter, even though I probably won't do the extreme slopes and then bicycling next summer. So I plan a plow through this and lead a normal life when I'm done. It may take a while, but I'm going to do

4 (9m 14s):
it. That's amazing to hear and I commend your spirit. Just just so we can set our clocks. When is it that you're going to be skiing in? This is all going to be over.

2 (9m 28s):
I Believe by my 60th birthday, which is February 22nd is my prediction. So

4 (9m 36s):
maybe you can join me on the slopes. I hope you're right. If you're right. I certainly will. Thank you so much Carl, and and good luck. I hope you get out of the hospital soon.

2 (9m 44s):
There's her. Thanks Sean you.

4 (9m 46s):
Chair Carl's actually been kind of Lucky there's a raft of lingering effects of covid. People are experiencing that's after the break on today explained. Support for the show today comes from caviar caviar. Are you tired of cooking food for yourself and your family caviar can help they've got an app that offers a curated list of great local restaurants and more than 25 major American cities.

4 (10m 33s):
Do you live in one of those cities download the caviar app to find out if you live in one of caviar's 25 major American cities where caviar is supporting local restaurants and Delivering memorable meals and saving you from cooking food for yourself and your family caviar Right Now is offering today explain listeners $10 off an order of $20 or more. All you have to do is put in the offer code explained at checkout that is $10 off the purchase of $20 or more with the offer code explained download caviar in the app store or Google Play and use that offer code one more.

4 (11m 16s):
time explained Support for the show today comes from NerdWallet smart money podcast. I do not know if hosts Liz Weston and or Sean piles are Canadian, which is a pretty good sign that they're probably not Canadian because Canadians know about other Canadians. It's like having a sixth sense, but for a sort of useless thing anyway, their podcast is meant to keep you informed. It's a weekly show. Walk you through the week's financial news and break down all your pressing money questions and who we could in. This is a time where people have a lot of pressing money questions to start listening head to Apple or Spotify or wherever you listen to your podcast and search for nerd wallets smart money show whether you're a finance Pro a finance bro trying to do a little bit more with your money or just want to keep up to date with the current.

4 (12m 18s):
Economic climate the smart money show has you covered.

1 (12m 30s):
My name is Louis parsley and I am a freelance investigative journalist and the 2019 2020 sneden share of Journalism at the University of Alaska Fairbanks. Which means I'm in Alaska. What's the temperature like there? It is 50 degrees and raining and I'm currently looking at a fox hunting in my backyard man.

4 (12m 53s):
It is like a hundred and ten and swampy here. And the only thing outside my house are rats.

1 (12m 59s):
Well, I know you probably don't want to hear this but I would trade for a little summer rather

4 (13m 4s):
not I thought you might say so Louis Grass Is Always Greener. We just spoke to Carl who took a good while to recover from covid. You've been writing about covid recovery and lasting effects for Vox. How's recovery been for everyone else out there

1 (13m 20s):
the CDC recently put out a report that says the even people with mild cases can Have long-term consequences. They're reporting about a third of cases suffer long term symptoms so that can mean either weeks or months depending on the person. I should note that it's important that many people fully recover. But another study in the Journal of the American Medical Association found that even two months after their first symptoms 87% of people still had symptoms and these weren't just the sickest people. Oil only 12% of the people in that study were admitted to an ICU.

1 (14m 1s):
So it's not just severe cases of covid-19 that can have these long-term consequences. Carl didn't have

4 (14m 7s):
many lingering aspects Beyond just like losing his voice. He said but let's talk about what other people are experiencing. What are the lasting impacts of covid-19.

1 (14m 19s):
So at the beginning of the pandemic when we are first hearing about cases in China the reports were about respiratory. Or a

4 (14m 27s):
symptoms. It causes the pneumonia like lung infection and so far nearly 300 cases have been reported in China at least six. People are known to have died

1 (14m 37s):
by it turns out that covid-19 isn't just an illness that affects your lungs and we really shouldn't just be talking about it in terms of mortality and that's especially true in the u.s. Right now as we're seeing an uptick in the number of young people who are getting

4 (14m 52s):
sick many young people may not necessarily get sick enough to go to the The hospital but they can get very sick.

1 (14m 58s):
It turns out that stars Covey to which is the virus that causes covid-19 affects a lot of your major organs including your heart kidneys your brain, even your nervous system and your bloodstream

4 (15m 13s):
yikes. Okay. Well, let's take a deep breath and get into all that starting with I guess the thing that most people are aware of what's the lingering effects on people's lungs that we've seen.

1 (15m 24s):
So basically you have all these gaps in your lungs that Think about them like a sponge their those gaps are supposed to be there. But when you're sick with covid-19 no spaces can get filled with debris and pus and so that makes your long way less flexible. Normally when you breathe your long expands like a balloon and when it's filled with all this puss, it can't do that. So in acute infections that ends up looking like ground you may have heard of people talking about Round class capacities which is on a CT scan a normal lung will look black and covid-19 patients lungs look gray.

1 (16m 5s):
So it's kind of unclear how much of that goes away. Once your acute infection is gone and it's still too early to know how many of those are going to be permanent, but we can look back at other coronavirus has that we know a little more about like stars and Merce and Studies in on both of those coronavirus has suggest that about a third of patients have some level of reduced lung capacity for the long-term. One of the studies actually followed patients for 15 years. So that suggests that some of this long damage may be permanent.

4 (16m 44s):
Wow. Let's let's move on to the heart what's going on with people's hearts and covid-19 and how how many those effects linger?

1 (16m 53s):
Yeah, just this week There's a new study out of about a hundred yellow relatively young patients that showed that about 80% of them have inflammation or other cardiac symptoms after they've recovered including again people who were never sick enough to go to the hospital after two months 78 patients still had Show changes in their heart

4 (17m 17s):
and this also relates to blood circulation. I imagine.

1 (17m 22s):
Yeah, so in in addition to the heart information problem, a lot of covid-19 patients also have abnormal blood clotting which if you have blood clots in the major veins of your body that can cause deep vein thrombosis and if those clots travel to your brain it can cause a stroke and if it goes to your heart it can cause a heart attack

4 (17m 45s):
then the Bad news keeps piling on you mentioned the brain and the nervous system. What's going on there?

1 (17m 50s):
Yeah blood clot. Unfortunately are not the only nervous system problem with this disease. A lot of patients are reporting pretty frightening neurological symptoms, like having brain fog or forgetting what they were saying in the middle of speaking and having pretty severe memory issues that keep them from working the way they normally do one paper actually called the disease. Although threat to the entire nervous system and suggested that a lot of people have these neurological symptoms possibly as many as over a third

4 (18m 25s):
the heavy list of covid-19 symptoms that might linger for

1 (18m 30s):
people. Yeah. There's one that's a little less serious, but equally odd some people are reporting altered senses of taste and smell again four months after they first got sick. A lot of people for some reason in particular talk about both garlic and onions tasting weird and some people are being followed around by a phantom smell that they can really only describe as something that's like earthy weirdly. It seems to be somewhat smell specific.

4 (19m 6s):
So the only quirky like Greg effect is just really depressing if you like

1 (19m 10s):
food. Yeah, which I would say is that significant

4 (19m 13s):
effect. Yeah, if only gonna be like some people were reporting that they had really great vision after having covid or something like that

1 (19m 21s):
so far as I know none of these long term symptoms make life better.

4 (19m 27s):
Do I know there's so much focus on a vaccine right now, but have there been any breakthroughs in treating all of these lingering symptoms from you know inflammation of the lungs to the heart to the nervous system to people losing their sense of smell. Well and taste

1 (19m 45s):
yeah, there have been there are a number of post covid-19 clinics popping up around the country and it's really important that people know if they're having long term symptoms that you and if we don't totally understand what's causing them that there are treatments that can help them manage these symptoms some of those treatments come from research on how to recover from being hospitalized generally with with other diseases. We know that if you're Do they did or ventilated or you're in an ICU? Especially? If you're there for a long time that can have a number of different impacts on your body for example being in bed for a long time causes your muscles to deteriorate which can make any shortness of breath seal worse.

1 (20m 31s):
And there's also a significant emotional impacts of being so sick and worried about what's going to happen to you A lot of people experience anxiety depression PTSD. After being in the hospital, so we have research on what some of these impacts are like and there are people who are working to help covid patients get treatment for these kinds of symptoms.

4 (20m 57s):
I just feel like hearing about all these lingering effects really brings to light the fact that this virus is just no joke irrespective of how confident or healthy or young you might be because you may have Lingering cyst symptoms that last potentially for the rest of your life.

1 (21m 20s):
Yeah, I think unfortunately we've a lot of the conversation has been around whether or not you'll die if you get covid-19 Emma. Unfortunately that doesn't come close to describing the many different impact it can have on your life. It can be a really life-changing experience to be sick for months, especially when no one knows. How to help you feel better that's an incredibly anxiety-inducing and frustrating experience. I talked to one doctor in the UK who's been sick since March and he's a doctor.

1 (22m 0s):
He knows quite a bit about both the virus and and working in an ICU is his normal day job, but he says that he feels like his life has been turned upside down. He doesn't know when he's going to be able to go back to work and that's just a really tough position to be in.

4 (22m 20s):
Well Lois, thank you for helping us understand covid-19 a little bit more and maybe when we understand it even further, we'll have you back on to talk about

1 (22m 34s):
thanks for bringing more attention because I know a lot of people have been feeling really frustrated and just feeling like they're being heard. I think we'll both help. I hope

2 (22m 44s):
I think it will. Thank you. Thanks for having me.