1 (17s):
Hey, how you doing? Hey, it's Sean. Number one. Long time. No talk. Yeah, honestly, how long has it been? I mean, it's been since my brother and your sister broke up. Yeah. Sorry about that. It's all good. We're working on an episode about social media today and seven years ago. It's 2012. I'm I don't know what like 27. You're like what how old were you in? 2012 14 right. You had just entered High School. I remember I remember I hit a hundred followers on Instagram or something and I was like, ooh a hundred followers and your sister was like Ours is nothing and I was like, what do you mean and she's like my brothers got like over a thousand and I was like, oh my God, is he famous or something?

1 (1m 8s):
And she's like no ding-dong. He's just in high school. Everyone high schools got thousand followers. Yeah, it's weird and I was just like whoa, and then I was like, how does he use Instagram? Like what is his style of use if he's got like a thousand followers and Alex told me she said Sean will like post a photo and within like 20 minutes if it doesn't get like at least a hundred likes he'll just delete it. Yeah, that was me back in the day. Yeah. Well, I really cared about the image of social media and how it's affected my followers and I'm not like that anymore as much but back then yeah, definitely. How did you decide what got deleted in what state up?

1 (1m 49s):
So if I so knowing how I decided to photos of like Shay went on like a trip or something and I don't like cool photo of myself for me with a friend and I'd also a time when I posted so when people during the week with most be on their phone so and high schools around Sunday night when everyone's trying to do homework, but no one really does homework. So I'll just chilling on their phone around 6 p.m. Is when are normally post it. So I've been calling you on their phones from 6:00 to 11:00 before school. So that's when I would post on my photos and sometimes I really noticed if I posted on like a Tuesday at like 1:00 p.m. I would get maybe a hundred less like 250 left leg which is really odd because it was that kind.

1 (2m 29s):
It was all chronological but I saw a big drop in my room likes when I posted it during the week for like on a Friday night at 8:00 p.m. If I posted it wouldn't be nearly as me like some kind of a weird thing. For every 10 minutes about and get four times that on my like likes and I wouldn't I would delete it. So I like 10 minutes if I'm out at 40 likes or something and I would just delete it for example. I am by no means trying to blow up Sean. Number two spot. Sean. Number two doesn't even use the Graham like that anymore but a whole lot of people do because Instagram likes can make you rich famous and miserable Kendall Jenner went dark on Instagram.

1 (3m 19s):
And now she's explaining why I

3 (3m 20s):
would wake up in the morning and I would look at it. First thing I would go to bed and it was the last thing I would look at it. Just I felt a little too dependent on it with millions of social media followers. It seemed like the last thing a

1 (3m 30s):
21 year old supermodel would do was cut the cord between her and her Legions of

3 (3m 34s):
fans. I'll be back. Yeah, I'm back. But are you how long has it been? Just get two days two days. Okay. What up everyone? It's your girl Lily. I am planning to take a break from YouTube. I am mentally physically emotionally and spiritually exhausted and I celebrities are starting to do drugs. They die now because he doing drugs want to know why because social media that even social media the media the blog they drive people crazy and that shit is

1 (4m 9s):
sickening now Instagram, it's divisive dad Facebook and other social media companies are responding to the fatigue. They're all talking about losing the likes

3 (4m 22s):
Facebook is considering running a test to hide the amount of likes on posts and pictures. This is according to TechCrunch Instagram is already testing this feature and Facebook owns Instagram so far. The response has been more positive than negative.

1 (4m 37s):
Arielle partes has been writing about this whole disliking social media thing for

3 (4m 43s):
Wired. Yeah. So Instagram has been the most forward about it. This is a pilot that they've launched just this year, but they've started removing some of the metrics on Instagram in some countries and they haven't said officially that they plan to roll this out to other markets, but it looks promising at this point out of Missouri. The head of Instagram has been really vocal about trying to make the platform a nicer place and one of the ideas to sort of make that happen is to remove things like follower accounts are like counts

1 (5m 20s):
because we don't want Instagram to be such a competition wanted to be a place where people spend more of their energy connecting with the people that they love and the things that they care

3 (5m 27s):
about Twitter has also just as of this year done some experiments with hiding likes and retweets that's been on there prototyping app, which is called. Twitter with a lowercase T again, they haven't made any official comment about whether or not that's going to roll out to the main platform, but it's something that they're looking at and then YouTube has also made some small steps in this Direction They recently changed the way they display a subscriber counts so that the number of subscribers is sort of rounded and it's not as precise and recently it came out that Facebook is trying to do something

1 (6m 7s):
similar. Do we know what Facebook is trying to do

3 (6m 10s):
we do when we don't we do know that they're experimenting with a system that would hide like counts and we basically know that because of some thoughtful reverse engineering in the Facebook app which suggests that they're doing something similar to what Instagram has already begun rolling out some kind of system that would hide likes in particular

1 (6m 34s):
Facebook is like what I mean? It's it's the biggest The world it's an enormous platform that really helped make this whole like culture a thing is rolling it back basically saying like hey, that wasn't such a great idea.

3 (6m 49s):
I think so Facebook and its Executives haven't been quite as vocal about this as other people in Silicon Valley, but we've heard for example Twitter CEO, Jack Dorsey say very explicitly that he doesn't think the platform should have had like all along it's sort of an open question as to whether or not you can really change the culture at this point or if it's too late if we've already sort of trained our minds to think in this like oriented way Mark Zuckerberg to my knowledge hasn't said anything explicitly about you know, admitting that maybe Facebook was responsible for creating some kind of negative culture around liking and posting but it does seem like at least in their experiments there.

3 (7m 35s):
They're acknowledging that maybe there's a better. Or way

1 (7m 39s):
minded affect the bottom line of any of these social media platforms do we know?

3 (7m 44s):
Yeah. I mean, that's that's it. It's a million-dollar question billion dollar question. Really? I think the answer is yes, but it remains to be seen exactly how some platforms like Twitter for example, they've suggested in their early experiments that actually engagement is not as good when they've removed the metrics from the platform. So there's some indication there that maybe you're making the place a little bit nicer you're making the posting and environment a little bit more friendly, but that maybe it affects engagement in a way that affects profit but then on the other hand Facebook is bleeding users Facebook isn't cool anymore.

3 (8m 26s):
It's the place where your parents hang out. It's the place where maybe you friended your high school teacher and you get like sporadic updates about their dog. Facebook has sort of Lost It's cachet and there's been this Great Migration to Instagram which is of course also owned by Facebook. So in one sense, like they could actually improve their bottom line by making Facebook a place that people want to go and want to post and Find meaning in and so if changing the likes changes the culture enough that it draws people back in theory, it could improve their bottom line Arielle. You

1 (9m 4s):
disliked your social media way before it was cool. Tell me how exactly that happened

3 (9m 10s):
last year. I met this guy named Ben grosser. He's an artist and a ux designer and in 2012. He started building these little hockey tools that he calls demetrick haters. He's made them for Facebook Instagram and Twitter and what they do is they remove all of the numbers from the platform. So you install one of Ben's demetrick haters on Google Chrome and then when you log, Onto one of these platforms from your browser. You don't see any of the numbers that show how many likes or retweets or comments or even timestamps in some cases. So I became sort of obsessed with with Ben and his vision which is very much an artistic one.

3 (9m 55s):
Right? Like Ben isn't trying to necessarily Force these platforms to change something about the way they present information but he is trying to make an artistic statement about how we've come to assign value to the numbers. So

1 (10m 9s):
how did you feel when you started domesticating with this plugin

3 (10m 14s):
when I first started using the geometric haters it was a little bit scary, but over time it's sort of led me to believe that I was putting too much value in things like how many likes or retweets or comments that my posts were getting it really made me aware of how quickly I was judging other people's profiles for how many Followers they had or how quickly I was judging somebody else's post for how many likes it

1 (10m 42s):
received. Did it change the way you felt while you were using these platforms? Yeah,

3 (10m 53s):
there's a sort of blissful Oblivion when you don't know how well something is performing. It sort of gave me the freedom to imagine that perhaps my post had gone

1 (11m 3s):
viral.

3 (11m 8s):
And perhaps no one liked it at all. Right, so it did make me feel less anxious. I mean when you can't check something I think you do feel anxious initially, but over time you come to sort of just feel like it doesn't matter which in the end. It

1 (11m 24s):
doesn't did you ever cheat? Did you ever like grab someone else's phone and look at one of your Instagram posts to see how it did.

3 (11m 32s):
I did cheat once I had a relapse there was one tweet. That just was such a funny tweet. Like I just knew that it was going to perform well, and I sent it out on Twitter and then I just couldn't help myself. I opened to Twitter and another browser without the de mettre cater installed and sure enough. It was getting tons of likes and retweets and Applause on the internet and I felt the tremendous dopamine Rush that I had been missing all along and thought team education is for losers.

1 (12m 9s):
It's almost as if knowing how well the Tweet was doing was a form of blissful Oblivion.

3 (12m 19s):
What is what is this stuff done to our brains though, you know. It really really does make me feel like an addict in a sense to think about how much of a rush I get from seeing a tweet perform Allah and even that that phrase that we use right like a post performing well feel so gross and reductive, but I'm addicted to it.

1 (12m 51s):
After the break what has this stuff done to our brains, though? There are lots of weekly political podcast out there, but I'm pretty sure there's only one hosted by an American lawyer who once served as the United States Attorney for the southern district of New York, which is like the most storied Federal prosecutor's office in the country. Yes. I'm talking about preet bharara. And yes, I'm talking about his podcast stay tuned with preet preet digs into major issues surrounding Justice power law and democracy with his other really smart guests previous guests include Pete Buddha judge Bryan Stevenson Bill Browder, and he approaches the subjects with it with his signature calm and wit he's a gentleman.

1 (13m 50s):
He's a scholar. He answers audience questions and speaks with the people shaping our history. They got a show coming out tomorrow with retired FDNY Captain Brenda Berkman. She was one of the first women firefighters in New York. She talks about suing the city twice to get the chance to serve and what happened when After the first plane hit on 9/11. She rushed to the nearest fire house and spent the next few months of her life helping out that episode comes out tomorrow, but you can subscribe to the show right now. Stay tuned with preet. That's PR EET. It's playing wherever your podcasts are playing.

1 (14m 38s):
Would you mind saying your name and how you'd like us to identify you for for purposes Candace? Audra's? I'm a professor of psychological science at the University of California Irvine. I imagine that means you teach young people, huh? I do I spend a lot of my time interacting with young people both on campus and then also in our studies or we track young people on their mobile devices and how are the young people doing? You know, that's a really good question. There's actually a lot of positive things about this generation things that we don't talk about a lot so young people today actually are the most connected educated the least violent engaging a lot less risky activities.

1 (15m 19s):
So rates of violence rates of substance, use rates of teen pregnancy have been following for the last decade are at some of the lowest points that we've seen. So on a lot of metrics that we've really cared a lot about historically so education Teen pregnancy violence substance use the young people today. Look. Okay. Actually, I look a lot better than we did. Hmm. What's the flip side to that? Is there one? Yeah, so there has been a flip side and what we've seen has been troubling there have been rises in depression anxiety suicidal behaviors among young people. Now, it's important to put this in perspective. Also, the the increase has been Stark especially among young girls around suicide suicidal Behavior suicide has been increasing among every age group in the United States and interestingly.

1 (16m 9s):
The United States is actually an outlier worldwide where the suicide rate is declining globally. What do you make of this argument that social media is the reason kids are sadder more anxious more suicidal. Yeah, I guess to kind of put it nicely. It's kind of a crazy idea. But it's one that's really

3 (16m 34s):
taken off. So yeah, people pretty nice to have strong

1 (16m 37s):
beliefs about this and this is something that can cause an argument pretty quickly adults in particular like to blame smartphones for the downfall of this this generation as they as they see it and it's been an easy target for a lot of people to point to smartphones as the cause of things that they don't like to see among this generation or among young people

3 (16m 59s):
David became withdrawn and stop talking to his parents till they took matters into their own hands.

1 (17m 5s):
I got woken up for am just two guys with my bags packed and I was pretty frightened at first but I mean, did you know these guys know my parents had hired them to take me here.

3 (17m 17s):
They forced David into the Paradigm Malibu rehab facility for 30 days to treat his social media addiction.

1 (17m 24s):
I'm curious like if if we've seen this kind of Hysteria before Is is the way people want to scapegoat social media comparable to the way some people want to scapegoat video games for for causing mass shootings. So I think there's some contemporary examples like video games where we know that there's very very small linkage between aggression and violent video game usage that basically bad Association is explained by individuals who are more aggressive tending to seek out that kind of content and that it's not a major contributor to what we're seeing now in terms of shootings Etc. So there's some contemporary examples, but there are a lot of historical examples going back to Socrates when the pen and writing came into fashion the pain yes.

1 (18m 10s):
Yes. This was going to damage the mind because we would no longer hold things that our mind when we can hold them on paper. There are all kinds of historical, you know, kind of writings on whenever a new technology is introduced Panic about how this will change in a harmful way. So we saw hysteria around the opening of Public Library. For example, you know more recently comic books or Radio rock and roll so adults generally don't like how young people spend their time. Now. This has been a pretty extreme time, right? So we are going through one of the kind of most rapid Stark digital Transformations. We have seen and so there might be something different about this time. Is there anything to the argument?

1 (18m 52s):
I mean, is there a correlation is there anything scientific that points to a causation to say mental health issues depression anxiety Suicidal Thoughts suicidal ideation and and social media. So, you know, we've been looking at this for a while we started about a decade ago following young people on their mobile devices and we weren't interested in this question at all that point. We just wanted to follow young people through the daily lives to get better measures of their mental health and we thought we could do that by getting kind of in the moment reports on how young people were feeling what they were doing what types of things might be triggering depressive symptoms. Anxiety Etc. So what have you found? You see very little strong evidence of a meaningful link between depressive symptoms anxiety and the amount of time that young people are spending on social media and digital Technologies.

1 (19m 44s):
In fact in our most recent study when we did find effects. They're actually in the opposite direction. So young people who are spending more time texting the throughout the course of two weeks were actually reporting less depressive symptoms throughout that time. Wow. It's like you have to take that into consideration while also taking into consideration the fact that sometimes you just look at social media and feel sad, right and then sometimes obviously you look at social media and you see some guy with this thick Chicago accent chasing down like a coyote in a field to try and help it and you feel nothing but joy, You need help, you know, and I just don't want to get bitten.

1 (20m 28s):
I want to help you, but I don't want to get bitten. That's some rednecks shoots your parents. What's going on? Come on. Hey, she's okay. I'm not going to fuck with you not in a bad way, but please don't bite me. But I've had my rabies spider if it makes you feel any better. It's okay. What happened to your Fox? Social media much. Like life will make you happy. It'll make you sad but kids are getting sadder might have something to do with pressure to perform on social media to keep up with everyone else's likes and retweets and shares.

1 (21m 9s):
It was interesting the types of social comparisons that are happening on social media. These social comparisons have happened all the time, whether it was an advertising or people in kind of your real lives. And of course, it's Amplified now in a social media and digital environment. It's very possible that social media has negative effects on mental health for some individuals. The common Trend that we see is that individuals who are struggling experiencing mental health problems struggling offline tend to have the worst experiences online. So are more likely to have social media experiences that spill over into their offline lives. And so it may be the case that social media and digital Technologies isn't The cause of these things it's a reflection of individuals that might be struggling offline and in some cases.

1 (21m 55s):
It may be contributing. It's not a one size fits all kind of explanation. And I think that's probably what's gotten Us in this mess. That being said, do you think this idea of getting rid of likes or little hearts this D metrication could help people have a more positive experience on social media. Yeah, so this has been a very interesting conversation and I think that there is a couple dimensions of this that are really really fascinating one is the possibility that social media companies are actually for public relations purposes fighting demons that don't exist. But the public believes that they do right so that this these kind of modifications will have no real effect, but you can claim from the technology companies that they're doing something kind of about this I think in general we need big technology companies social media companies to be invested in creating digital ecosystems that promote good things and especially for kids.

1 (22m 54s):
So it's a positive thing that there's some experimentation that people are thinking about to figure out how to do that in the best way. The concern here is that it's being done behind closed doors. So it's not clear at all what the kind of metrics that they're monitoring are here and whether those have anything to do with mental health, we need the data to be open we need Research design how they're going about testing this to be open to so that people can come in and actually audit it like we would do in a clinical drug trial like we would do with anything that we think is having harmful effects on serious problems, like depression like anxiety. You think they're going to open it up. So people you like you can study it. I would hope so it would be the responsible thing to do, but I doubt that that will be the case.

1 (23m 40s):
Well, okay, then I guess we'll leave it there. That was Candace. Audra's professor of psychological science at the University of California Irvine. Thanks so much. I'm Shawn rhombus from this is today explained.