0 (0s):
The holidays are finally here. Time to get together with family. Maybe hang out with the little kids in your life. Just don't be surprised if some of them are Now influencers Survey says, more and more kids wanna be influencers.

1 (13s):
A recent study found about one in three American kids between the ages of eight and 12 aspired to be either a vlogger or a YouTuber.

0 (21s):
More and more kids consider themselves influencers. Hi

2 (24s):
Guys, let's go back to,

0 (27s):
And parents are doing a lot of the legwork when it comes to curation. There's even a name for the practice.

3 (33s):
Shing

0 (33s):
Don't know if the term is gonna stand the test of time, but there's a lot to consider here.

3 (37s):
Kids are too young often to understand what is happening to them when they are being shareed, even if they do understand they have no legal recourse to give consent or not give consent.

0 (52s):
The perils of parenting, while Shing coming up on today explained

5 (1m 0s):
There's a new Black Panther movie out and most of the reviews are extremely positive, but not all of them.

6 (1m 8s):
The thing is, I think people need to understand that a movie can be very well intentioned and also not a good movie.

5 (1m 17s):
We offer two dueling perspectives on Wakanda forever, one glowing and the other. Not so much this week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast

0 (1m 43s):
Today explained. We're gonna spend some time this episode trying to wrap our heads around some of the moral quandaries at play. When you turn your child into a social media celebrity, it's very much a thing as you'll soon see. But first, let's just define an essential term. Leah Plunkett is the author of

3 (2m 0s):
Sharon Hood,

0 (2m 1s):
Which is all about

3 (2m 3s):
Outing all the ways that parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles, teachers, coaches, and other trusted adults share children's private information digitally. Kids are too young often to understand what is happening to them when they are being shareed, even if they do understand they have no legal recourse to give consent or not give consent for parents who may over share their children don't have any means of giving feedback to their parents, let alone putting up any boundaries around the extent to which their private experiences may be shared and in some instances monetized.

0 (2m 55s):
We're gonna hear more from Leah later on the show, but we wanted to start with a case study. So I reached out to a mom who's raising a little influencer.

7 (3m 4s):
My name is Mai Nuen and I'm known as my sassy girl, like m a i sassy girl on Instagram. And I guess across the board

0 (3m 14s):
MA's got a decent sized following, but it pales in comparison to her

7 (3m 19s):
Daughters, my daughter Zoe in the city. Her Instagram's more like monetize in business.

0 (3m 24s):
How old's your daughter Zoe?

7 (3m 25s):
She's 10. She's been on Instagram since three.

0 (3m 30s):
Wow.

7 (3m 31s):
Yeah, we started her Instagram when she was three, but like she was kind of on mine as a baby.

8 (3m 36s):
Hi guys. Welcome after Zoe. She, so today I'm going to interview my little sister o and yes,

7 (3m 44s):
So I was late to the gram. I was a Blackberry user, like forever.

0 (3m 49s):
You and Obama.

4 (3m 49s):
Come on man.

0 (3m 51s):
So is it safe to assume that when you got Zoe on the gram at three years of age, she didn't really know what Instagram was?

7 (4m 1s):
Yeah, she didn't know what it was. She just, she was just herself like we didn't, you know, make her do anything. And we noticed that like when she took pictures that she had this like vibe to her, like she was just like really like serious face and we thought it was funny. So we're like, Hey, so why don't we just like, you know, dress her in her personal style clothes and like let her pose that way and like just post it for fun. But then I do have a background in influencers and things, so I kind of like went with their formula and I guess that's when we started gaining followers cuz people were like, oh my gosh, who is this child? Oh my gosh, this is how I would totally wear that. So that's how her Instagram kind of started.

8 (4m 39s):
So would you rather be a pen or a pencil?

9 (4m 41s):
A pen or a pencil? That's a really good question. I prefer to write in pens, but pencils seem to last longer so I'm gonna go with wood and lead a pencil.

8 (4m 51s):
Yeah, sometimes just like the feel of them is just really nice.

0 (4m 55s):
So in 2015 you open up Zoe's account, Zoe in the city with zero followers in 2022. Now that she's 10, seven years later, how many followers does she have?

7 (5m 6s):
So I would say the most followers she's received is probably like 155,000. Wow.

8 (5m 12s):
So today we are going to do a half a tutorial with my mom. So here

7 (5m 18s):
We go. She's in a movie now that released in the last few months. Oh yeah, she was in bullet train.

0 (5m 25s):
Whoa. She's in bullet train. And your daughter's in bullet train.

7 (5m 28s):
Yeah, she has a very small part. It's like 15 seconds, but you know, it's her.

0 (5m 47s):
It sounds like you've had this incredible success and I'm sure a lot of parents in your community are probably a little jealous that your kid gets to do all these these amazing fun things and you're probably like, you know, building an incredible trust fund for, but was there ever a point where friends of yours or family members were like, Hey, this is kind of weird that you're just like doing so much on social media with your daughter who has no idea what you know you're actually doing with the photos you take of her or the videos you take of her? Did anyone object to the sort of commercialization of your kid?

7 (6m 24s):
I feel like, well we've always been very communicative with Zoe. Like everything we do, we like, we tell her where it goes. We show her her where it goes or what she's shooting for. She's very, she

0 (6m 35s):
Yeah, but she doesn't have a lot of agency. Like she doesn't understand it. She's like a child.

7 (6m 40s):
Yeah, I guess so. And I guess I would say like for instance, the first time we took her to Coachella, like we got a lot of comments from people like how could you take your kid there? There's like, people use drugs there or people don't dress appropriate there. Like why are you exposing your kid to like, like that environment? But it's like, wasn't Coachella always like a family kind of music festival? Like I don't know, but

0 (7m 3s):
Like this is a different thing I'm asking about I think, which is sort of the monetization of your child because one day's always gonna be 20 and maybe then something happens in her life where she thinks, oh man I wish my, my whole childhood wasn't, you know, a journey that everyone can go pull up whenever they want cuz the internet is forever.

7 (7m 26s):
Well I think that's the misconception because I don't share everything. People might think that I share everything but we don't because she has a completely normal life at home. I feel like from age seven on, she understood, you know, she understood that this is like sort of work. People

8 (7m 43s):
Always ask me, Zoe, how are you going so fast? Well it's simple. I drink milk, California milk passes the board also known as the creators of the iconic got milk by partnering up with milk, get hungry to help provide up to 1 million meals to kids in need.

7 (8m 0s):
It created opportunities for her and she became privileged in a way that she got invited to things and she received a lot of gifts and like I think people just don't understand and so they will just kind of assume like, oh you're forcing your child to do this. But it's like for us, we didn't force her. She kind of fell into it. I don't know if you can tell the difference. Yeah,

0 (8m 20s):
Help us understand the difference because when she's three years old, you know, a three year old does what his or her parents tells them to do.

7 (8m 29s):
If they're not enjoying it and they just like act out and they're just not cooperative in the situation. Like we don't do it. They're, you know, if we were needed to shoot for a campaign and she just was not feeling it that day, we're not gonna shoot it. We're not gonna force her to like wear the clothes that she doesn't want to. If something's uncomfortable we're not gonna do it. So we, we do leave things in her court for us. Like our intention to do this was not for Zoe to make money. Like we were just doing this for fun and I thought it was an amazing stepping stone for her to open opportunities for her. Which it has. Right. Because I mean how many kids can you say have become Instagram famous and then are now getting to be actors?

7 (9m 11s):
Of course now it's like more and more, right? I don't know, she's not a diva or anything if you meet her, she's like the sweetest kid. She's so grounded at home, she's like super nerdy. Like it's just so funny. It's like Hannah Montana

0 (9m 23s):
And I hope it stays that way but I guess there is the potential that it doesn't. Right. I'm sure you're aware of that. You know, a lot of child actors for example have had really tough periods once they come of age. Are you at all worried about that?

7 (9m 38s):
No, I'm not worried because I feel that I'm a good enough parent to tell when like things are not okay. But, so I do everything I can to make sure that we're not forcing Zoe into anything and that everything she does is because you know, she's cool with it and she wants to do it.

0 (9m 56s):
And there there's been some research that you know, Instagram is bad for girls. Especially their their self-esteem. Their self-image. Are you at all worried about that?

7 (10m 6s):
Like, so Zoe doesn't look at my phone un supervise, I let her look at reels once in a while, but she's always looking at like aesthetically cute things or like animals or, you know, so that's what I love about her cuz she's not into like those TikTok dances or like, or like pranks and stuff. Like I make it very clear that I don't like when they look at the prank stuff cuz it's not like nice, you know, it's not like it shouldn't be funny. She doesn't even need like want a phone yet. And so I feel very grateful that she doesn't wanna phone yet. Hmm. And so I feel like when she gets to middle school maybe you know, she might need one because I don't want her being left out and not having one. But that's what I'm afraid of when middle school comes around and it's like the freedom of having a device.

7 (10m 52s):
I mean you just have to deal with it. And I guess building the trust with your child and like trusting that they will come to you if they're not like okay with something or how they feel is like the key.

0 (11m 4s):
The other side of this is the money and it sounds like you're making lots of money. How do you avoid getting into sticky territory with, you know, money that your child is making you but making because of you? And who does that money belong to?

7 (11m 19s):
It's separate because if it's on Zoe's account, it's her money, right? So basically everything goes to her, but the expenses from that campaign, like the photographer or like the editing and like those little things like comes from that money. Like it's like a commission taken out. So we take out those expenses, but the rest of it goes to her. Everything goes into her her account. Do

0 (11m 43s):
You have haters, do you have people who talk smack about like the influencer world you've created for your family and the comments? Or is it all PASI vibes?

7 (11m 51s):
We don't have people sending us weird stuff in the dms or anything. And that's another thing is like the creepy pedophiles and things, right? So we're very, we're very private.

0 (12m 2s):
What do you mean you're very private, you have a public Instagram for your kid?

7 (12m 6s):
We don't share where we live. We don't share our house. We don't share. Oh, I hope not. Yeah, we don't post things like where we are live, you know, like yeah, unless it's a place that's like private and people can't get in, but like we don't share her school stuff. We don't share where she goes to school. Of course in the beginning she was wearing sunglasses all the time. That's been her signature. But people didn't realize that it was intentional because I read somewhere that, you know, pedophiles, they connect to you through your eyes. Whoa. Right. So when you're posting headshot of your kids that are looking straight at like, you know, like straight ahead, those accounts are the ones that the pedophiles are following because they feel like the kid is connecting with them. Oh my goodness.

7 (12m 46s):
But like for us, we, this is

0 (12m 48s):
So dark.

7 (12m 49s):
No, I mean it's stuff you have to think about, right? You might think like posting a picture of your kid in a bathtub is innocent but no, like you should not be sharing your naked child on any, even if it's your Facebook, you know, you never know where that stuff goes.

0 (13m 3s):
It sounds like you've considered a lot of the darkest elements at play here from from creepers to, to financial conflicts to the mental health of your daughter in five years, in 10 years. Here's, here's a question apart from all of those things and then I won't challenge this anymore, I promise. Do you ever feel like all the time Zoe spends taking photos for the gram and for the brands and even making cameos in bullet trade, which sounds so fun, I have to say takes away from the time she could have spent on like a Seesaw or hanging out with her friends playing Pokemon or something like that?

7 (13m 45s):
No. If she wants to have a play date with her friends, she can. We go to Disney like every week. Every week, yes, we go weekly. I like love my kids and I want them to have a childhood, right? Zoe takes martial arts every week and you know, we do private lessons at a park and I take my little one and we go to the park after, you know, we go to BOA after like we do everything that a normal kid would do. I don't know like what else is there? Like what does it mean to like, let your kid be a kid, like to send them outside and play with rocks. Like, I mean I don't know

0 (14m 16s):
If Zoe in the city is going to Disneyland every week. I I stand down my you've done it.

7 (14m 22s):
People say that. They're like, let your kid like a kid. And then when I post them at Disneyland, oh you spoil your kids. It's, I can never do it. Right. You know,

4 (14m 33s):
So stay of ever. No, tomorrow's my shoe, my eyes.

10 (14m 54s):
You are watching the flight briefing for NASA's Artemis one mission.

11 (14m 58s):
The agency's mission is being heralded as the start of a new era of space exploration.

12 (15m 5s):
This week NASA launched Artemis one the first in a series of missions that'll eventually take humans back to the moon with one big difference This time,

13 (15m 13s):
This time we're going back to stay.

12 (15m 17s):
NASA is planning for a permanent moon base and even a mission to Mars. But there's a pretty basic problem.

14 (15m 24s):
Space is terrible. It wants to kill us. Okay,

15 (15m 27s):
Yeah. And we've had a problem here.

14 (15m 29s):
It's cold, it's full of radiation, it's not our warm, enveloping wonderful earth.

12 (15m 35s):
That's where Artemis comes in. It's kind of this giant experiment to see whether our bodies can actually survive deep space.

14 (15m 43s):
How bad is it? How much can we handle

12 (15m 47s):
This week? Unexplainable. What does space do to the human body? Follow unexplainable for new episodes every Wednesday.

16 (15m 58s):
Hey, you've got all kinds of people yelling at you about sales Black Friday and Cyber Week these days. So I'll keep this short. Get the lowest prices of the season on an annual subscription to New York Magazine now through November 30th. Prices start at $8 for a monthly digital subscription and top out at $45 for a year of print and digital access. Give yourself the gift of Vulture, the Cut, Intelligencer, and all your favorite New York magazine brands for up to 75% off until the end of the month. Go to ny mag.com/holiday by November 30th and you'll get the best deal of the year.

8 (16m 42s):
Go back to the Zoe Show. I just went grocery shopping and I wanna show you what it got

0 (16m 47s):
Today explained. We've had the case study, things are going well for Zoe in the city and her mother may at least for now. But what happens when this goes wrong?

3 (16m 56s):
When it goes wrong, it can look like a lot of misery.

0 (17m 3s):
Sherton author Leah Plunkett is back

3 (17m 6s):
And that misery can take different forms. So one very public example of commercial shein going wrong was the daddy five YouTube channel, which was a so-called family prank channel.

17 (17m 21s):
I got a prank for Cody, I bought this here, invisible Ink and I'm gonna squirt it all over his carpet and start flipping out.

3 (17m 31s):
And viewers began to notice that one of the children was pranked. I don't think it was actually at all funny and neither did a lot of viewers because they noticed that this one young boy was on the receiving end of his family's behavior more than others. And that his reactions were showing real emotional distress. Yes

18 (17m 53s):
You did. Yes they did. They did it. Make sure it doesn't stop recording.

3 (18m 5s):
And so viewers of this pretty popular, I think least half a million viewers at its peak, maybe more give or take, they actually alerted that Child Protective services in the jurisdiction this family lived in and child protective services did get involved. Unfortunately, that misery doesn't have an expiration date because even if a channel is taken down, once digital content winds up anywhere online, you need to assume that it is never going to go away. You lose control of where it goes, who can see it and how long it will live. So sadly, the misery doesn't have an end date even when the kids grow up.

19 (18m 46s):
Someone who grew up on the first phase of the internet and whose mother shared all of their private moments on the internet, 100% exploiting your kids if you're making content with them. 100%.

0 (18m 58s):
And what are the ethics of this? Do parents have their kids sign contracts? Do the kids always know that it's a business? How does it work?

3 (19m 7s):
There is wide, wide range because this is essentially an unregulated industry. There are not comprehensive, meaningful, enforced legal requirements for parents to get any sort of buy-in from their children. Unlike the context when a child is a performer in a more traditional media platform, for instance, on the Broadway stage or on the silver screen or even it sounds almost quaint now, but even a 20th century style reality TV show. There are labor laws that will speak to the protection of child performers, but because commercial Charing falls into this gray area, is it a business or is it just your private life?

3 (20m 1s):
And you as a parent are talking about your private life on a publicly available social media platform. And if you happen to pick up a little money, that's great, but it's your home and it's your kid and you get to decide what you say or don't say about them online because we don't have regulation. Parents have to really examine their own ethical framework.

0 (20m 27s):
I think a lot of people have heard illusions to to child actors going through some of this stuff that we're talking about here with regard to parents stealing their earnings and and laws that were set up in place to, to protect those earnings and and protect the rights of child actors. Has any of that translated over to kids who are

3 (20m 47s):
Creating stuff on social media? This is still the wild West, but there are some heartening trends. For instance, there has been some great youth led activism out of Washington state in the last legislative cycle where a wonderful youth activist was trying to get the Washington State legislature to pass a version of these child performer laws to specifically include kids who are appearing in these kinds of commercial shing enterprises.

20 (21m 20s):
So what House Bill 2032 does, the account has to be monetized first of all. So the text says that the number of views received per video segment on any internet platform or network meets the platform or network's threshold for generation of compensation or the vlogger receives actual compensation for video content equal to or greater than 10 cents per view.

3 (21m 45s):
There is growing awareness by all stakeholders, lawmakers, regulators, educators, parents, teens and youth as they are getting older and looking around maybe at their own past experiences, maybe at their friends experiences or just at the experiences of others in their generation and going, wait a second, these devices that we think of as being just part of our everyday surroundings, our laptops, our tablets, our phones, and we can do cool stuff on them and maybe we make a little money.

21 (22m 19s):
Forbes has published a list of the highest earning YouTubers and on top is get this an eight year old boy who have used toys and with me.

3 (22m 30s):
And we should not stay in a wild west space where children's labor, because even if you're just a baby sitting there eating your cereal and your parents are getting a a hefty sponsorship deal from the cereal company that is labor, you are performing an act. The set may be your highchair and the producer director team may be mom and dad, but that's still labor and some of that money should be going into a trust for you the same way that it would if you were sitting in that highchair on a Broadway stage or a Hollywood law.

3 (23m 17s):
All of us as parents are under so much pressure every day to do our best, to be our best, to do our best job raising our kids. I have so much empathy for myself and all the parents out there just trying to navigate this wild west. So I would hope that parents who are listening who are engaged in commercial sharing, parents or others who are listening who are not engaged in it but are curious about it, really take the time to educate themselves before sharing any content, but also to give themselves a lot of compassion and understanding because this is a tough space for all of us as parents and families to be in.

0 (24m 25s):
Leah Plunkett is the author of Sharon Hood and a faculty member at HO Law School. Our show today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain, fact, checked by Matthew Collect and Laura Bullard and mixed by Paul Robert Mosey. I'm Sean Rams firm. I edited the rest of the team at today. Explained includes Fiona Petros, hot Mawa, Haidi, Amanda Lu, Ellen Halima, sh Abha, artsy Miles, Brian and my co-host, Noel King, our supervising producers, Amina Assad a Shapiros, our Director of Sound. We use music by Breakmaster Cylinder and Noah Hassenfeld. We're on the radio and partnership with W N Y C and today explained as part of the Vox Media podcast network.

0 (25m 9s):
Happy Thanksgiving back in the feed, black Friday.

8 (25m 13s):
Today we're making shimmy ram chip. Step one, water in the pot. So openness for me curly wrap my hand. Does it look good enough? Next, boil the water. Tob break. Mommy has to put it in to there. You have.