1 (5s):
Heartbreaking Italy as the country continues to suffer from the Corona virus outbreak over a thousand people have died.

2 (11s):
The Italian Prime Minister has announced restrictions on movement across the entire country in the most drastic response yet to the spread of coronavirus during the annual Kentucky to take notice and we understand that all these measures will create inconveniences. We understand that these measures will impose sacrifices some Sometimes small and sometimes very large. But this is a time where we must take responsibility for

1 (35s):
ourselves. So Italy is effectively on lockdown. They've shut down the entire country in an attempt to stop the spread of covert 19. So that means something like 60 million people are under strict travel restrictions. They're being told to basically stay home for everything but essential work and getting things like food if they want to move around the country for work or health reasons. Need to get special

2 (1m 1s):
permission people mandated to keep at least three feet away from anyone else or face up to three months in jail

1 (1m 8s):
streets are quiet public Gatherings and meetings are off-limits. Now theaters Jim's ski resorts clubs sporting events. They're all closed even weddings and funerals need to be delayed and places that are open are empty. The shops and the tourist areas of Rome are standing empty bars and restaurants are empty grocery stores are still up and running and so our pharmacies, but they're apparently only seeing patients through a glass or plastic barrier and I've spoken to Italians this week who tell me how dramatic this changes how sudden it feels Italy is this densely packed country.

1 (1m 52s):
A lot of people live in apartments. They're used to Gathering and meeting in public spaces. Having their evening passeggiata like a walk around the main streets in the cities and towns where they live and congregating in these places. And now these public spaces are dead and

2 (2m 10s):
names yesterday positive. Is there any we have to remain positive and calm and living the best way taking all precautions? We have to adapt our lifestyles, but we carry on

1 (2m 21s):
when the quarantine was first imposed on the north of the country, which is where the outbreak is centered people were a bit skeptical and may be resistant to following the quarantine orders. And now I think with the death toll and the case toll Rising so fast. So again more than a thousand deaths there people are scared and they're more willing to follow instructions and to take this seriously

2 (2m 46s):
the had been worries for the pope himself after he canceled a retreat because of illness but the Vatican T simply had a common cold. Hey Chino contemporary era. I'm close in prayer to people who are suffering because of the current Corona virus epidemic and to all those taking care of

1 (3m 2s):
them and you even have like public figures like pop singers and artists taking to social media to encourage people to stay at home. There's a Neo stole a casa hashtag going around that means I'm at home and famous. People are sharing little photos. And videos about their quarantine experiences. So I think yeah, it's kind of shifted from maybe some skepticism to acceptance at this is what needs to happen and it might change though in the coming

2 (3m 34s):
days the government to said anyone found flouting the ban could face jail, but patrolling the region to ensure everyone stays Port will be another challenge for a government dealing with Europe's worse. Coronavirus

1 (3m 47s):
crisis. So Italy is in China so they don't have this massive. Army and police force to keep people in line, but for now, it sounds like most people are obeying the order they're staying home.

2 (4m 3s):
Julia Baloo's senior health correspondent at vaux. You've been covering the Corona virus outbreak in Italy from your base in Austria. Just how bad is the outbreak in Italy?

1 (4m 13s):
It's bad. So as a Friday, they have more than 15,000 cases and a thousand deaths and just to put those figures into context that's bigger than the other major outbreaks that are happening outside of China. So its bigger than the outbreaks. You've probably heard about in South Korea. It's bigger than Iran its Largest outbreak in Europe and only the numbers in China rival what's happening in Italy right now and the one thing that makes the Italian case so startling is just how quickly it escalated. So just three weeks ago Italy had reported only three cases to The Who and again now they have more than 15,000. And so this virus really took off there and it appears to have caught the authorities off

2 (4m 58s):
guard. Is that why? It spread so quickly because Italian officials were caught off guard.

1 (5m 7s):
There are a few theories. So the outbreak started in the North in the Lombardy region. This is a densely populated area. It has lots of business ties to the rest of the world 10 million people living there are people coming in and out and that might have helped accelerate the spread but there are many parts of Europe that have these Dynamics so that might not explain everything another idea. Is that there were simply testing more aggressively than other places and finding more cases and not might have inflated the picture of what's Happening their relative to other countries. So for example, as of March 8th only 1,700 Americans have been tested for covet 19 and the number in Italy was 50,000 and Italy was also taking a different approach than many other countries and not just testing people who had returned from China they were also Oh, testing people without any travel links or even symptoms at the time.

1 (6m 10s):
Another theory is that this virus got a foothold in the hospital system before doctors realize there was a problem and that might have Amplified the outbreak. So something like 10 percent of medical workers in Lombardy have been infected. There's also speculation about whether Kovac 19 has been particularly severe in Italy because they have an aging population and we know that the virus hits elderly people particularly hard, but the bottom line I think Is that the government was forced into this catch up position in a reaction mode like as soon as they found cases so Italy certainly isn't unique in that sense. But I think there's sort of Representative of what can happen.

1 (6m 52s):
If the virus does get a foothold in a country how quickly it can spread and how fast things can

2 (6m 58s):
spiral house Italy's medical system been has it been able to cope with the rising numbers.

1 (7m 5s):
So it really has a system of universal public. Public health care, so they're like Canada or the UK, but Italy wasn't prepared for the surge in sick people that they've seen and so doctors there have gone public about just how unprepared the health system was there not enough hospital beds not enough space in intensive care units to treat people in the more severe form of this disease people need ventilators for help with breathing and Italy hasn't had that. So you have these doctors taking to social. Media and and writing about how they've been forced to ration care and choose who to

2 (7m 43s):
treat

1 (7m 52s):
and recently a few doctors wrote a letter to the rest of Europe saying get ready like you might look like Italy in a few days. So so make sure that you are prepared and you don't see this complete Deluge of your health system.

2 (8m 7s):
What happened along body is It's like a bomb that exploded, you know that the problem is that it exploded there and and before you can realize what's happening. You are like overwhelmed by the mass of patients. So hopefully in other countries is not behaving like this

1 (8m 24s):
what's important to know, is that where this outbreak started in the north? It's one of the richest regions in Europe. So this isn't an Italian Backwater. This is an economic Powerhouse and they have a very strong health In there, but again, what seems to have caught them off guard is that the case counters escalated so fast, that's what makes this example particularly frightening because you have a place with a strong health system that in theory should have been able to respond to this kind of Crisis but wasn't and so the implications for the US like I've spoken to ex director of the CDC other health experts who say something like this could play out in the US.

1 (9m 8s):
Yes, and so if we haven't had a wake-up call yet about how effectively this virus can spread how it can overwhelm Health Systems how it can obviously have massive reverberating effects on the economy. Italy should be that warning

2 (9m 25s):
you're saying it's frightening. I mean, I hope it's okay to ask. I mean, you're about to have a baby and you know, you're in Austria, which is right next to Italy. I'm guessing this is more than just a story you're

1 (9m 37s):
covering. So I Wood is amazing to me is how quickly this outbreak went from being something that was like a far-off problem in China to a worldwide threat and something that's very personal to my home. My husband was traveling in Asia. I didn't know when he came back if he would have to be quarantined. Well, I was going into labor what would happen I've had family have to cancel their trips who were coming to see the baby. They were supposed to have soon one of the Obstetrical Wards in Vienna has shut down cities have shut down schools universities. My due date is next week and I'm wondering if my hospital will still be open and if my doctor will still be there, I've had I've had some of my sources, you know, I'm pregnant suggest that I should get induced to avoid the peak transmission here in Vienna.

1 (10m 31s):
So yeah, they think this is gonna have long lasting repercussions for all of us for

2 (10m 36s):
sure.

1 (10m 42s):
But hopefully it will just be a good story to tell our child in the future that he or she was born in a pen

2 (10m 48s):
demick. After the break what it's like in Rome right now living on lockdown. I'm no I'm hassenfeld filling in for Sean Rama's for him while he's on vacation. This is today explained.

1 (11m 21s):
Where's the best ice cream in the neighborhood? How come there's been traffic at the same corner for a week is someone near me selling their coffee table find the answers to all this and so much more on next door. Next door is the app for everything happening in your community. It's available in every us neighborhood and every member is verified. So, you know, it's the best place to find trusted local knowledge. And next door is a great tool for connecting with those around you whether you're new in the area need to borrow a power. Drill or are organizing a block party. Next door is the place to go to ask invite and stay informed with next door. Neighbor's worldwide are already working together to build stronger safer happier communities.

1 (12m 3s):
So what are you waiting for? The app is free go to nextdoor.com explain to sign up and see what's happening in your neighborhood. Be sure to use the link from our show to sign up. So they know that you support our show remember that's nextdoor.com explained. This episode is brought to you by HP. HP believes that printing for your small business should be easy and convenient to do from whatever device you have on hand. So they created an app just for that. The HP smart app is the best in class Mobile Print app that streamlines the way you set up and used your HP printer. Now, you can print from your phone or tablet instantly from anywhere see a contract pop up in your email where you're grabbing coffee hit print on your phone and it'll be waiting in the tray when you get home.

1 (12m 50s):
Or use the cameras can feature to capture copies of contracts you sign on the go and automatically send a copy to print out your home office. The HP smart app is designed to work with most new HP printers. The HP smart app is available in Google Play or the App Store visit hp.com. Get real to shop compatible printers. That's hp.com. Get real. My name is Tiffany Parks. I'm an American citizen living in Rome Italy for the past 15 years. I'm married to an Italian and now have Italian citizenship myself and we have a four year old boy.

1 (13m 34s):
So when they initially made the announcement, it was sad that you know, you can take a short walk around your neighborhood. If you need to you need to take your kids out walk your dog, but just the other day, they took it even further and they said actually only walk if you're walking to the supermarket or the pharmacy. We don't want people walking for recreation. We don't want people congesting the street. You need to stay in your homes, and it's hard to feel like Don't have any freedom of movement. I live in an apartment on the outskirts of the city and we luckily have a Terrace so I can have some outdoor time.

1 (14m 19s):
There's also a courtyard but it belongs to the whole building and so it is communal space and so we don't really know what to do there. I mean yesterday we took our son out for a bike ride through the ground the courtyard. But today we decided not to do it because we thought well it is a communal space. We also have a little playground across the street from the house. That's where most kids will play that's completely closed. It's locked so that's not even possible to go in there. Honestly though being kind of cooped up with my son is is not the only challenge it's also challenging to be cooped up with my husband it's only been two days and I'm already like thinking Hmm how in the world are we possibly going to get through a month of this my new highlight of my day is to go grocery shopping just get out of the house is a treat but here they'll only let a certain number of people into the supermarket at a time and you have to wait until someone comes out and they let one person in so Means that a line builds up outside.

1 (15m 18s):
Would you have to have at least 3 feet of space between you and the the person in front of you? So it ends up being a very very very long line, but it does move quickly and I thought I was going to be in line for hours today and it ended up being only about 20 minutes. And once I was inside a supermarket, it was pretty empty because they're letting so few people in it. It's time and I was pleasantly surprised the shelves were more or

2 (15m 41s):
less full.

1 (15m 46s):
Italians are very social by Nature Italians congregate in piazza's they sit in cafes. They hang out together. They walk arm in arm down the street they kiss each other when they see each other and for them to be told. Okay, not only can you not go out to dinner. Not only can you not go to your coffee bar, but you can't even hang out with someone on the side of the street. You can't get into within a meter of another person and if you can stay in your house. Hard for Italians. It's hard for most people to be honest, but I think it's a particular challenge for Italians. I think that particularly for Italy this whole pandemic this whole virus could change some of the social or cultural Tendencies of the country.

1 (16m 40s):
There's an expression here, which is minifig yzma, which means sort of like, I don't give a damn - if if that could be a word and it's just sort of this attitude of like whatever I don't care I'm going to do what works for me Italians are famous for being line cutters. You know some of the people will wait in line, but a lot of people just Sidle up to the front and slip in and I think that this whole thing that we're going through together as a country right now could change that to some extent and I think that I see people coming together sort of for this Collective good of the country and it's very easy for a young person to say, I don't care I'm not going to get sick. Even if I do get this it's not going to kill me.

1 (17m 20s):
So why do I care but there's been a shift in the way people are looking at at it and they're starting to think about the older generation and we have a lot of older people in Italy. It's the oldest country in Europe. So people are starting to think we'll know I'm going to be much much more careful because I don't want to carry this disease to my grandparents or other older people or sick people. And so you see people really doing their best to follow the rules and there's always going to be a couple of people who you know who don't but for the most part I've been really surprised at how Italians have sort of pulled together and we're like, okay, this is hard we're going to Ice and we're going to do it and there's an expression that's sort of floating around on so Italian social media, which is we're going to stand far from each other now so that we can Embrace each other

2 (18m 5s):
later. Tiffany Parks is the co-host of the podcast the Bittersweet life. Italy may be on lockdown. But in at least one city residents have found a new way to stay together by singing out their Windows this particular song from the city of Siena is an Ode to the beauty of the city. He's not here residents actually put a new verse in which goes like this even with thunder and lightning.

2 (18m 47s):
We are not afraid of you garbage virus.