1 (2s):
Lynn. And I are so proud of Liz for standing up for the truth, doing what's right. Honoring her oath to the constitution. When so many in our party are too scared to do so.

2 (13s):
Republican Congresswoman Liz Chaney is guaranteed three votes in her Wyoming, primary race next Tuesday, her mom's, her dad's and her own.

1 (23s):
I am Dick Cheney. I proudly voted for my daughter. I hope you will too.

2 (27s):
She's not guaranteed much else. Her break with Donald Trump. After the insurrection at the us capital on January 6th has made her persona non grata among Republicans in her home state.

3 (40s):
And we're fed up with Liz Chaney,

2 (46s):
But as vice chair of the January 6th committee, she's won over many Democrats, Liz Chaney's future coming up on today explained

Citi (1m 0s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg

2 (1m 49s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king, Leo Wolfson, state political reporter at the cowboy state daily in Cheyenne. Give me all the dirt on Liz. Chaney. Who is she?

5 (1m 59s):
Well, so Liz Cheney has had an interesting career in the state of Wyoming. She's obviously the daughter of former vice president, Dick Chaney. She spent not a whole lot of her life growing up in Wyoming, but she did spend at least a few consecutive years. There's kind of an on off type of thing.

6 (2m 18s):
And Wyoming's always been my home. You know, when we left, when I was 12, it was because my dad was the elected to represent the people of Wyoming. I tell people it's not like I woke up one morning and said, Hey, you know, let's relocate.

5 (2m 30s):
She made a return to the state after a few stints in Washington, working with the state department as an attorney, working with the George Bush reelection campaign in 2004. And she finally made a return to the state in full, when she ran for us Senate,

7 (2m 46s):
As I've traveled to every corner of Wyoming, seeing old friends and meeting new, I've been honored to have had the chance to speak with so many of you about your concerns, your fears, and your hopes for the future.

5 (2m 57s):
This was kind of a flawed campaign. She made a number of critical errors and most of all, she was going up against a sitting us Senator that was highly popular. And she pulled the campaign about six months in long before she ever got to election day. She came back to the well, so to speak in 2016, the

8 (3m 14s):
Eldest's daughter of former vice president, Dick Chaney is taking one more shot at politics. Liz Cheney is running for Congress. We hear Cheney is looking to replace Wyoming, Congresswoman Cynthia Lumis, who plans to retire.

5 (3m 26s):
And Liz had a pretty easy path to victory in that election. She won that by about 17% over the nearest competitor in the primary

9 (3m 34s):
Ms. Cheney beat seven other people in receiving 40% of the vote. Her nearest competitor got 23% support. It's a job that her father first won 40 years ago

5 (3m 44s):
And she won the general by even larger sum.

2 (3m 48s):
What is it about loose Cheney historically that people in Wyoming have liked? What are the character traits that she has that have appealed to people there? Do you think?

5 (3m 58s):
Well, she had a respect reputation because of her father's reputation. I think she was definitely running on that reputation quite a bit.

7 (4m 6s):
My dad is a man of, of honor, a man of integrity. A man who's got the courage of his convictions, a man who clearly understood and understands today, what it takes to make this nation strong, to keep the American people secure. And you know, again, every time Barack Obama says, I'm know Dick Cheney, I think that anybody who knows Dick Cheney sort of nods their head and says, that's right, you're not Dick Cheney.

5 (4m 28s):
And Dick Chaney himself was extremely popular in this state while he was a Congressman and vice president. When you're

10 (4m 33s):
A member of the house of representatives, the speaker of the house calls on you, not by name, but according to your state and for better than a decade, I proudly answered to the title of the gentleman from Wyoming.

5 (4m 48s):
So she had that familial recognition going for her. And she was just very conservative. I think that really appealed to a lot of the voters here. There was still some mutterings that she was a carpet bagger and that she wasn't a true native Wyoming, even before all this happened

11 (5m 2s):
When somebody's never gotten a paycheck in Wyoming and has lived their whole adult life in Virginia. I, I think you, I think they should run from Virginia. That's, that's our home state

5 (5m 19s):
People really hold people to a kind of a status of whether you're a true Wyoming resident or not. If you haven't spent your entire life in the state and, or don't have family roots in the state, people absolutely look suspiciously at you. It certainly has not done her campaign any favors.

2 (5m 36s):
So Lu Cheney was elected to the house in 2016, the same year that Donald Trump was elected president. Of course, what were her politics?

5 (5m 46s):
Yeah, so, like I said, just very conservative

7 (5m 50s):
President Obama has launched a war on our second amendment rights. He's launched a war on our religious freedom.

5 (5m 56s):
She feels that the, you know, the gut federal government was intervening in Wyoming issues way too much. And the federal government is a big presence of topic here in Wyoming because we have some of the most federal land in the country.

7 (6m 10s):
And he's used the EPA to launch a war on Wyoming's ranchers are farmers and our energy industry.

5 (6m 16s):
She's definitely kind of a climate change skeptic. She's definitely a foreign policy Hawk.

7 (6m 22s):
He has so effectively diminished our strength abroad that there's no longer a question about whether this was his intent,

5 (6m 28s):
Definitely of the George Bush administration, Lou of not being afraid to intervene in foreign issues, skirmishes wars, things of that nature, definitely of that Cadra

7 (6m 41s):
North Korea, they test a nuclear weapon. There are no consequences. They build a reactor for the Syrians. There are no consequences. And what they've learned is that their belligerent, in fact, oftentimes yields from us capitulation and concessions.

5 (6m 56s):
The one thing that was kind of an interesting topic is same-sex marriage was kind of an, always a little bit of a, a tricky thing for her during her 2013 campaign, she spoke out against same-sex marriage and said she was against it, despite her sister being married to a woman. And that caused a big issue in her campaign because her sister actually went on Facebook after that, that was said and spoke out against it. And there was kind of a rift in the family for a number of years there until essentially 2021. She did a 60 minutes interview where she said that she made a mistake.

7 (7m 29s):
I was wrong. I love my sister very much. I love her family very much. And, and, and I was

5 (7m 39s):
Wrong. And then this past summer, she voted in support of this. The respect for marriage act codifying, same sex marriage in America.

2 (7m 50s):
So there's something super interesting here about her and about conservatism, which is like least Chaney's conservatism is like her dad's. And like George Bush, this is a certain type of conservative. And then along comes Donald Trump. And he is a Republican, but he's certainly not a Bush type conservative or a Chainey type conservative, right? No. Is Liz Chaney at this point, at the point where Trump is elected, is she on the Trump train or is she sort of holding her nose and saying, you know, I, I'm more of a Bush Republican,

5 (8m 20s):
Ah, you know, to be honest, there was never a point where she really went against Trump. In that era. She supported his 2016 campaign, especially when he got the, the Republican nominee at the convention. And she was very consistent in supporting him. However, on the issue of some of those foreign policy things, she did speak out against some of the, the stances that Trump made, especially in 2019 with his decision on Syria. You know, there was also comments that Trump made himself speaking out against the George W. Bush administration and some of the actions they took with so-called never ending wars and things of that nature. So it, wasn't hard to draw conclusions that there was definitely disagreements between the two camps.

5 (9m 0s):
But once again, you gotta go back to the voting record and look that she voted with Trump more than 90% of the time. So when, when, I mean, if there was a divide, it was not very public.

2 (9m 10s):
When did she finally break with Donald Trump?

5 (9m 13s):
So it was a very clear break that occurred after the 2020 election, after Trump started questioning the results of the 2020 election Chaney implored him to go to the courts and prove his evidence. And then following that after the evidence did not prove out in the courts, she just started speaking out against him at that point and saying that he needed to concede defeat in the election. Then you've fast forward a couple more weeks

12 (9m 39s):
To protect the constitution. United States

5 (9m 45s):
In January 6th happens. That was kind of really what kicked off everything.

13 (9m 53s):
Senators, congressmen, their staffers were quickly whi into a secure location.

5 (10m 2s):
She got ushered just like many other MES of Congress into an underground bunker of sorts at the Capitol. She was literally minutes away. I believe from some of the Rios from getting to her and her team. At one point, there was an instance representative, Jim Jordan had tried to give her a hand and she slapped his hand away saying, something's the effect of this is all your fault.

7 (10m 24s):
I thought clearly that the lie that they had been spreading and telling people had absolutely contributed to, to what we were living through at that moment.

5 (10m 33s):
She said it brought back memories of when her, her father was ushered into the underground PIO bunker on nine 11, but this was a threat to her of a domestic nature.

7 (10m 45s):
And at this moment when it matters most, we are also confronting a domestic threat that we've never faced before. A former president, who's attempting to unravel the foundations of our constitutional Republic, aided by political leaders who have made themselves willing hostages to this dangerous and irrational man.

5 (11m 10s):
And I think it, it really, it was a, it was a day that really scarred her as far as on a personal basis to her experience that day

2 (11m 23s):
Immediately after January 6th, a lot of Republicans are very angry with Donald Trump. And for a couple of days, they remain angry with Donald Trump. And then all of a sudden over the coming weeks, many of them, most of them overwhelmingly start to walk back their criticisms of Donald Trump and start to suggest that the attack on the capital had been exaggerated. And that Donald Trump hadn't really done anything. Why didn't Liz Cheney back off to,

5 (11m 51s):
It's been the same reason she hasn't backed off this entire time. She's just asserted that it's a, it's a duty her oath to the constitution and just an oath to the, that she made to her office when taking office that she just feels, this is the right thing to do.

7 (12m 5s):
All of us who are elected officials take an oath that we swear under God to the constitution. And that oath has to mean something. And that oath means that we cannot embrace and enable a president as dangerous as Donald Trump is.

5 (12m 21s):
And she's not making moves that are probably winning her favors with most of the, the voters in Wyoming. So it does give credence that she legitimately feels like this is her constitutional duty to be following through on speaking out against what president Donald Trump has done

14 (12m 38s):
The select committee to investigate the January 6th attack on the United States. Capital will be in order

2 (12m 46s):
As you watch these hearings, what's standing out to you about Chaney.

5 (12m 50s):
She's just very consistent. She's giving no openings to any conspiracy theories or any credence to Trump or his supporters arguments that the election was rigged, or that he had zero connection to January 6th, capital riot.

7 (13m 5s):
President Trump is a 76 year old man. He is not an impressionable child, just like everyone else in our country. He is responsible for his own actions and his own choices.

5 (13m 18s):
She's very composed. There doesn't seem to be a lot of high or low emotion from her. And she isn't giving an inch.

7 (13m 26s):
As our investigation has shown Donald Trump had access to more detailed and specific information showing that the election was not actually stolen than almost any other American. And he was told this over and over again,

2 (13m 43s):
What has happened to her within the Republican establishment since she took on this role.

5 (13m 49s):
So she lost her house leadership position in may of 2021. She was censored by the Wyoming Republican party and the Republican national committee over the past year as well. She is completely at, at odds with the Wyoming Republican party. As far as its leadership, she has spoken out against the chairman of the party, Frank EOR, who was a former oathkeeper and was at, at the January 6th capital riot, standing on the periphery. And she refuses to attend events hosted by that organization because of his status and who he is. So she has found herself in a tough position because she is kind of eliminated a faction of potential supporters in the state, but she really does not seem to at least care or express that she cares to any degree for her.

5 (14m 41s):
Like I said, it's strictly an issue of constitutional duty. These are some of the, the, the side effects of some of the actions she's been taking.

15 (14m 49s):
And we gotta get rid of the weak Congress people, the ones that aren't any good, the Liz Cheney of the world, we gotta get rid of him. If Liz Cheney could even find Wyoming on a map and went there, she would find a lot of very angry Cowboys.

7 (15m 6s):
Tonight. I say this to my Republican colleagues who are defending the indefensible. There will come a day when Donald Trump is gone, but your dishonor will remain

Citi (15m 29s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals. And to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology, that money will help provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. But that's just a start. Having ambitious goals is what helps the world make meaningful progress. And it's going to take all of us working together to make sure we continue to move in the right direction because to address these worldwide problems, it's going to take worldwide action. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg.

DirecTV (16m 29s):
This episode is brought to you by direct TV stream. DirecTV stream brings you the live TV you love. That means you can stay up to the minute on 24 hour live news from entertainment to current events, wherever you are in the us, whether that's at home on your TV or streaming on the go and you get your favorite live sports. So you can catch this season's biggest games. Get the best of live TV with direct TV stream. Get your TV together@directv.com

2 (17m 2s):
Today explained we're back with Leo Wolfson. He's a reporter for the cowboy state daily in Cheyenne. Now let's talk about this primary coming up on August 16th, recent polling from the Casper star Tribune shows that her challenger Harriet Haman is ahead by about 20 points. Tell me everything you know about Harriet Haman. Who is she?

5 (17m 23s):
Yeah, so she spent pretty much her whole life in, in Wyoming. She's a land and water attorney, but she's generally well respected in the state, especially within the Republican party. She ran for governor in 2018 and she finished third, a close third in that election. And that kind of really brought her up on the state radar. As far as politics, she was involved in state politics before that she was kind of a prominent delegate within the Wyoming Republican party. And she was very active at the national convention in 2016 for the Republican party. And she even went as far as calling Trump, the weakest candidate and a xenophobe. Now, since then she has walked back those comments and she said she was misled by Democrats and the media in making those comments.

5 (18m 7s):
And then of course, when she got president Trump's endorsement back in September, 2021, that kind of sealed the deal for many voters right then and there, that was for a lot of people. And they've even said as much is that that's all they needed to hear.

2 (18m 20s):
Okay. So in this upcoming primary, what is Harriet Haman's argument? What is her platform what's she focusing on?

5 (18m 28s):
So the forefront of her, her campaign is that Wyoming is not being represented in Washington. And she obviously she brings the, the Liz Chaney's role in the January 6th committee. And speaking out against Trump, the forefront of her campaign, she's claimed that Chaney has betrayed Wyoming residents and left them out to dry, so to speak. And one of her big campaign speeches has been, is called fed up.

3 (18m 53s):
We're fed up with a federal government that doesn't seem to work for us anymore. We're fed up without a control spending and we're fed up with the radical Biden agenda.

5 (19m 4s):
And she just goes through a litany of things that Wyoming residents are fed up with in inflation, Joe Bidens,

3 (19m 10s):
We're fed up with $6 gasoline and $6 diesel. We're fed up with a shortage of fertilizer for our farmers and with the supply chain that has been broken by the incompetence of our federal agencies.

5 (19m 25s):
And of course, Liz Chaney is kind of like the, the final punchline on that speech.

3 (19m 29s):
And we are fed up with Liz, Chaney,

5 (19m 35s):
Her and Chaney, to be honest, are not super different. Politically aside from their thoughts on president Donald Trump, Haman might be a little bit more conservative on certain issues, but they're both very skeptical of the COVID 19 pandemic and its origins. And they are just very consistent with being pro fossil fuels and skeptical of green energy and, and climate change.

2 (19m 56s):
So when Liz Chaney makes her pitch to the people of Wyoming, what is her message? Does she say Hart? I agree about everything. The thing we don't agree about is Donald Trump. Like, how is she, how is she working this very big thing into her campaign message?

5 (20m 13s):
You know, it's funny, she, she doesn't really work Haman into that narrative so much as just talking about herself and Donald Trump. And she really sees this election purely as a battle between her and Donald Trump.

7 (20m 25s):
If we set aside our founding principles for the politics of the moment, the miracle of our constitutional Republic will slip away. We must not let that happen.

5 (20m 36s):
She's certainly made it a key focus of her campaign. Of course, she's touched on other issues and talking about how she thinks she's a great representative for Wyoming voters and things of that nature. But I mean, it would be, be untrue to say that the focus on Donald Trump and his actions are not the, the key focus of her campaign.

2 (20m 53s):
And in line with that, I mean, one of the things that has happened, we know this from very good, both local and national reporting is that Liz Chaney has all of a sudden begun to appeal to democratic voters.

5 (21m 6s):
Yeah. It's very interesting to see who and where she's getting her donations from Wyoming has had a very small proportion of her overall campaign donations. And to a certain extent that does play into the, the state's small population, of course, but it is so grossly out of alignment in proportion to some of these other states. So for instance, if you look at some of the FEC data from the second quarter that ended on June 30th, Chaney had earned around 330, $8,000 from Wyoming donors in around 828,000 from Virginia donors at that same deadline, this pales in comparison to what you made from California donors, which was 1.2 million at that same timeframe.

5 (21m 49s):
And just some of the names are just really interesting to see where her support has come from. There is a Biden supporter in California who previously sat on the, the Yahoo board, who is a part owner in the San Francisco giants baseball organization, who has donated to her campaign. Melinda gates, former wife of bill gates has donated to her campaign. The list goes on and on with voters in Wyoming, to be honest, the finance information hasn't maybe struck as much of a strong court as it would in other states, or maybe as one might expect, because I think for Wyoming residents, it so much of it still just comes down to whether you're there in person and you're making those connections. And all the, the money involved is almost kinda super full to a lot of people in my personal opinion, but it it's of course, sets, sets Chaney up for a potential presidential run in 2024.

5 (22m 37s):
If she wants to do that, she has about 7.4 million cash in hand in her war chest right now, which is a very unlikely amount that she'll be spending before now and election day. And the primary election will pretty much dictate the winner of the general realistically in Wyoming.

2 (22m 54s):
Has she given any indication

5 (22m 56s):
She has not, she, but she has not ruled out running for president when asked about it multiple times.

7 (23m 2s):
I haven't made a decision about that yet. And I'm, I'm obviously very focused on my reelection. I'm very focused on the January 6th committee. I'm very focused on my obligations to do the job that I have now.

5 (23m 19s):
She's very much, I'm sure thinking about her dad and trying to accomplish great goals before he passes away someday. And she's very close with her father. She talks to him on a almost daily basis.

1 (23m 32s):
Liz is fearless. She never backs down from a fight. There is nothing more important she will ever do than lead the effort to make sure Donald Trump is never again near the oval office and she will succeed.

5 (23m 46s):
She has a lot of work to do if she wants to run for president in theoretical polls for 2024 candidates, she's running way behind governor DeSantis and Trump in the polls. And even though she may have 7 million cash in hand after this election, it's a tiny amount compared to what DeSantis, who has raised over a hundred million and Trump who has also raised over a hundred million in his pack have raised for a potential presidential run in 2024 for their respective campaigns. But it makes you wonder with some of the ties that she's been building with some Democrats like Nancy Pelosi, it makes one wonder that she might not seek out a cabinet position someday, perhaps in a Democrat president's office.

5 (24m 26s):
It could be something that would look very good for a Democrat president to have a bipartisan presence in their cabinet. And she does have legitimate foreign policy experience and is something you could tell that she's very interested and passionate about so that it could be another avenue she might pursue in the future.

2 (24m 45s):
Today show was produced by Amanda Lou Ellen. It is her first show with us. Thank you, Amanda. It was edited by Matthew Colette and fact checked by Laura Bullard. It was engineered by a Fe Shapiro. The rest of our team includes Halima Shaw, hot Modi, Victoria Chamberlain, aha, artsy miles, Bryan and Tori Dominguez, and the cohost with the co-host Sean Rams firm. Our supervising producer is Amina Elsa. We use music from Breakmaster cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld, and we're distributed to public radio stations across these United States in partnership with WNYC I'm Noel king today explained as part of the Vox media podcast network.