1 (4s):
It's Wednesday, April 1st 2020, but you'd be a fool to play a prank on someone at a time like this. I'm Sean Rama's from and this is your coronavirus update from today explained its census day the US Census Bureau have to suspend field operations for the time being but it's still counting on you to help get this thing done by the end of the year. You can head to my NT 20 census.gov to take it I did mine this morning. There is no citizenship question on the census if you're wondering and if you're also wondering if this pandemic is essentially Our Generations World War the answer is evidently.

1 (43s):
Yes, the United Nations secretary-general and done? Gutierrez today said covid-19 is the greatest test that we have faced together since the formation of the United Nations. The UN is estimating that something like 25 million people will lose their Jobs worldwide bringing a recession that quote probably has no parallel in the recent past the number of confirmed cases around the world is now approaching a million with close to 50,000 deaths the death toll in the United States is now over 4,000 more than we lost on 9/11. And also that's more than officially died in China because of covid-19 but us intelligence is now confirming a long-held suspicion that China has Been Under reporting the toll of covid-19 according to Bloomberg News not Michael the intelligence Community turned in a classified report to the White House at says China

2 (1m 41s):
concealed the extent

1 (1m 42s):
of the coronavirus are breaking people like dr. Debra Berg from the White House coronavirus task force are saying the medical community was missing a significant amount of data when setting expectations for this pandemic as a result. Bring this back to World War II Wimbledon has been cancelled for the first time since World War Two, but I don't know. Maybe it'll be a banner year for ping-pong. You can hit us with your coronavirus concerns anytime. We got a listener voicemail line two. Oh two six eight eight five nine four four were on Twitter at today underscore explained. I'm a traumas firm and we're accepting emails today explained at vox.com.

1 (2m 46s):
Hello. I'd call you will not be charged for this call this college from an inmate at Monroe Correctional Complex. What's called will be recorded and monitored. If you wish to block anything to a cause of this nature dials Evans now to accept this call, press 5 now to decline this call hang up. Thank you. Hello. Is this Arthur? Yes, this is dr. Lawrence. I'm looking for Sean and Halima. Yeah, this this is Sean. So halima's on the line to with me shown to really broken up with your underwater.

1 (3m 30s):
That's that's really broken up. Hold on a second. How's this Arthur? Is that better? I'm going to clear completely clear. I love it. Okay, cool. Great Arthur. How you doing? Incarcerated? We're fine. Where are you incarcerated the Washington State Reformatory in Monroe, Washington and how long how long is your sentence? I was convicted of murder when I was 19. I'm 55. No. I received life without parole sentence. And I wanted to talk to you today to find out what it's like to be incarcerated.

1 (4m 10s):
Now with this coronavirus pandemic has that been on your radar before before it appeared in the prison? It certainly wasn't on my radar until it kind of took over life here and change the whole trajectory the prison though. Tell me tell me exactly how that happened. How did it enter the prison and take over your life there? Earlier this month the entire cell outside. I live in was put on lockdown and we seek notice that we were on quarantine lockdown because the guard had showed up to work with Coronavirus.

1 (4m 51s):
And that was the first first time first point where it entered the prison and I believe that was March 13th. When that God came to work with carbon virus tell me everything that happened after March 8th as you remember it they locked us down and they just locked or so doors and get this locked up for her just over two weeks. Three starts with the keynote wrecking our temperatures after a few days. They quit checking our temperatures and just let us write it out for a couple weeks. And then on previous Monday, they released us from that lockdown quarantine. And so this last week we you know, we're able to go outside finally and then on Thursday the other cell House of 320 Souls over 400 and some people was placed on lockdown and they were placed on lockdown.

1 (5m 46s):
another guard came to work with Coronavirus and since then the prisoner is tested positive. And so that sell houses currently on lockdown. And also with happened since there is the prisoners become much more crowded because they opened up to mothball door shattered cell blocks, you know that are that are out of date so they haven't used them for about 20 years. They open those so bucks a cup and are now putting parole violators in there because the local County jails where the profilers violators are normally held will no longer take those parole violators because that's the county jail.

1 (6m 30s):
From the bring down their populations because of the games where the virus so now this prison is becoming much more crowded. And so how did that change your day-to-day life or or the life the lives of your fellow inmates? Well, I don't know self house has 320 selves over 6 foot by nine foot cells. They're very small and a lot of them have two prisoners in them. Okay, so you got A guard who has the virus the prisons are overcrowded. You're on lockdown in there. Are you scared? That's a good question or other words. It's hard to answer that that word scared.

1 (7m 13s):
There's a real feeling of inevitability about it, you know, the virus was wreaking havoc right outside the walls in the first place that showed up in the US was just 15 miles away from here. And so I mean there was an inevitability that would get in here. Come so presenting this kind of an experience work virtually everything that's out of your control. And so when something the inevitable happens, you just kind of kind of hang on and find a way to survive it. The closest thing. I can you know equate it with this like, you know when you're locked in a Cell on a giant old Deteriorating cell house.

1 (7m 54s):
One of the biggest fears is like that they'll be a fire nobody's going to come and unlock yourself. And so that's it's a very real fear and what kind of caught my attention about this virus. It kind of feels like the fire has started in the prison. Sorry to go off on her Angelique Kerber. No, it's a it's a really good and scary metaphor. So how is this fire spreading? I mean how many people have tested positive since that one guard got it. So far two guards have tested positive in one prisoner.

1 (8m 36s):
There's a reason that the one prisoner was tested. Reason to suspect he had underlying health conditions. And so he presenter like health conditions was taken out of the prison to a neighbor and hospital and in the neighboring hospital. He showed signs of the virus and they tested them and found out he had it other steps that you're taking. Are you are you washing your hands more. Are you covering up your face at all when you go out is that allowed even and it's absolutely Not allowed to do what I'm doing and what in I can dance to it that others are doing around me is we're washing our hands as much as possible and not shaking hands keeping as much space as we can which is almost a exercising Ridiculousness in here.

1 (9m 28s):
We were so crowded together. Do you guys have hand sanitizer there? I mean, it sounds like again people outside don't have enough hand sanitizer to go. And I wonder if you have enough inside. It's my understanding that hand sanitizers make with alcohol. Is that true? Yeah, sorry found some ignorant, but I've been in prison my whole life. So that is not something that's allowed in prison anything with alcohol learning. Yeah Arthur, I guess I just want to ask before I let you go. I know this call is costing you money. Do you feel like the prison is trying to keep you safe or or is it?

1 (10m 10s):
Just the fire were talking about is a fire that you're stepping out and Arthur I'm gonna jump in here

3 (10m 20s):
because I think Shawn broke up a lot and you might not have heard his

1 (10m 23s):
question.

3 (10m 24s):
The question. Is that do you feel like you're seeing the prison do anything to keep you safe or is this another situation like the metaphor you described earlier with the fire and you feel a little bit

1 (10m 35s):
powerless. Oh completely powerless and you know, Question is coincidental because I just had a conversation this morning with another prisoner about this and I feel like it's apathy at the top just to give you a picture of what I'm talking about is the protocol has become the people sitting very close quarters in the chow hall during during meal times therefore person tables. And the prison is gone to let me see one of us at each poor person table. Which is seems to be a social distancing protocol. At the same time we're required to stand in single file.

1 (11m 21s):
Very close proximity 80 of us at a time and we'll go to pick up our tray or The Institute to do a ruler only a hundred fifty prisoners can go to the yard, which of course creates a situation where everyone is pushing and shoving in housing each other in order to be one of those hundred fifty people on the yard and then when we get to the There's only eight phones that are available in their 18 inches apart. I think maybe what that illustrates is the disconnect between, you know, a bureaucratic attempt to create these social distancing and other protocols that Society is doing and the reality on the ground in prison.

1 (12m 5s):
There's a disconnect in Iran a difference. I think before we go and I know we got to let you go. Can I just ask you if there's anything else you wanted to say that you didn't get a chance to say that I didn't ask you about. Oh great. Yeah, so I can ask your listeners to donate to my legal defense fund Warren. Just kidding. Do you have a legal defense fund know I don't. You know, I don't I don't I don't know if you did the math but you know coming to prison when I'm 19 and be in 55 Now isn't isn't a good thing and speaks to a bigger problem than immediately of the pandemic.

1 (12m 47s):
All right. I think that might be I really appreciate it. Can we how can we pay for this call? Like I think he had to pay for it. Is there any way we could not have him pay for it? The call is already paid for but um, but you know if you guys have some extra money lying around maybe you should invest in some technology for your phone equipment. You guys are fun. I appreciate it. Arthur Longworth is an inmate at the Monroe Correctional Complex in Washington state.

1 (13m 29s):
He writes for The Marshall Project. We got in touch

2 (13m 32s):
with the State's Department of Corrections

1 (13m 34s):
to ask about Arthur's account of conditions at the prison. They weren't able to verify every As detailed by publishing time, but let us know that there are now not two but three

2 (13m 44s):
employees who tested positive for covid-19 at the complex to

1 (13m 49s):
protect their privacy. They wouldn't say at the employees regards after the break. This isn't just an issue at Monroe in Washington state. The coronavirus is a 50 states issue and these 50 states have incarcerated more people than any other country on Earth. It's today explained.

2 (14m 16s):
This is Advertiser content

3 (14m 18s):
as a journalist. I'm part of the problem. We reduce people to 1 minute 14 News package is I've done it. I've done it myself about my own people newsrooms are tasked with covering the whole world, but they don't represent it more than three-quarters of all Newsroom employees in the US are white and three out of five of them are men. This has an impact that voice you heard is Nella for hidayat. She's a journalist a 30-something Millennial women of And a Muslim Now look for is the host of course correction a podcast from Doha debates and Qatar Foundation. It seeks to include the voices were not hearing in the conversations. We are all having around important Global issues, but I was 15 years old and I was watching the news and documentaries.

3 (15m 3s):
It was like this big tall white man who's telling me what the brown people think right and I'm the brown people and it would be presented to us as fact. So the course correction podcast is basically my attempt At trying to

1 (15m 16s):
change things

3 (15m 20s):
a classic journalism Trove is the view from nowhere a single journalist certain of their impartiality presenting information as fact, but there's always a view from somewhere to now offer that personal experience is a feature not a bug we all come with a set of biases. It's about taking personal responsibility. Not just as an individual not just as mean elephant a person but as a journalist to Report accurately and truthfully be a part of the conversation for change. Listen to course correction wherever you get your podcasts. Hey, it's Kara Swisher. You may know me as the only person who looks cool wearing sunglasses indoors.

3 (16m 3s):
But in my spare time, I host a podcast called Rico decode every week. We talk about power change in the people. You need to know around Tech and Beyond some of my recent guests include Edward Snowden Megan Rapinoe and the cast of The L Word which was a huge thrill for me. If any of these sound interesting to you, you should listen them now on Rico decode subscribe to the show for free on Apple podcast or in your favorite podcast app to be the first to hear new interviews every. eight

2 (16m 28s):
week

1 (16m 38s):
Daniel gross you write about incarceration and the criminal justice system for the New Yorker things are bad in the Free World right now and their promise to get much worse. How much worse is this going to get in America's prisons?

2 (16m 51s):
Let me put it this way mass incarceration is a vector of disease. I spoke in the doctors about this factors like crowding areas where you have Congregate in order to eat food conditions like cells all lined up next to one. Another Like A source told me that he's 21 inches away from the person next to him in another cell. These are the same risk factors that cause a disease to spread more quickly in society. Social distancing is not possible in many prisons just to give you one Taste of of how much worse it can be inside the carceral system in Rikers legal aid NYC ran the numbers on how many people have tested positive for covid-19 and the rate is drastically higher than in New York City, which already has one of the highest infection rates in the nation.

2 (17m 58s):
So according to the Legal Aid Society in New York City. There are 167 cases in Rikers, and that's an infection rate of 6% of the population of Rikers Island jail and New York city has an infection rate of less than half a percent.

1 (18m 24s):
And the country is aware of how dangerous this is the Bureau of Prisons announced that starting today on Wednesday. All federal prisons will be going into lockdown for two weeks. What are we seeing? In other prisons across the country are any of them doing a particularly good job of handling this I mean things didn't sound promising it Arthur longworth's prison in Washington

2 (18m 47s):
state. I would say that what you heard from Arthur is probably consistent with a lot of Prisons right now. Quentin in California and prisons in New York state have implemented lockdowns and what we're really talking about when we say lockdown is essentially the same mechanics of solitary confinement. We're talking about people being confined to their cell for most of the day being occasionally LED out for particular activities, like eating or calling loved ones. I've been hearing from a lot of my sources that people are not getting enough access to the phone. They might have one or two. Opportunities in the day to go talk to their loved ones and these are folks who don't have anything else to do because all the programs have been canceled and so one potential place where the disease could spread According to some of my sources is these communal phones that guys are putting socks over there.

2 (19m 44s):
There's sliding socks on to the phone to prevent germs from getting on it and spreading to other people in terms of what prisons are doing most large. In systems that I've been following have cancelled their non-essential programs. So classes would be canceled some vocational training kinds of programs or transitional training programs have been canceled the step that many prisons have not taken is D car serration in large numbers. D car serration meaning the release of at-risk prisoners elderly prisoners people who are close to their parole a reduction in the population so that the disease doesn't have the opportunity to spread as quickly

1 (20m 34s):
D car serration might be like a new word to people. They might be much more familiar with with its opposite. What are the kinds of Dakar serration out there? So

2 (20m 43s):
there's several ways that folks can be released from prisons and jails within the jail. Stan it's often the mayor or the local prosecutors that have the power to allow someone to be released before they've had a trial. So pretrial people who don't need to be incarcerated for whatever the conviction was and then there's two other tools that are sort of lower level tools that can be used one is just parole people people are coming toward the end of their sentence. They're eligible to be released and usually a board of paroles can say, okay. This person has served enough time. They should Be released medical parole is similar. If you're at risk if you're elderly or you have a condition like asthma or heart disease, you can be released.

2 (21m 28s):
There's another category which is clemency. And that's when an executive oftentimes the governor or the president of the United States makes the decision to release someone or commute their sentence and the sentence early because they've you know applied for clemency and shown shown accomplishments or shown a reason why Should be

1 (21m 49s):
released. Have we seen efforts at Dakar serration in this current crisis?

2 (21m 56s):
We have seen small efforts at Dakar serration particularly in the jail system across the United States. So in New York as an example Governor Cuomo and Mayor de Blasio together announced the release of a number of people who were incarcerated for violations of parole. So they were previously incarcerated they were released and then they were re-incarcerated many of those folks have been released the total numbers though. Don't seem to be making that much of a dent. So in New York, the number of parole violators released was about just over a thousand and the total prison population is in the tens of thousands and Rikers continues to have many thousands of people confined in a very small space, but you are seeing some really interesting collaborations that may grow in the coming days.

2 (22m 45s):
You see local prosecutors who are normally responsible for putting people in jail collaborating with public defenders to actually reduce the populations in jails. It's it's a movement that I think is is very localized right now. It's not spread across every system but it's heartening and is a trend that could help this problem. Is there a political reluctance

1 (23m 9s):
to just let a bunch of people out of jails and prisons right now be it be it parole violators or on the other end of the spectrum like clemency or even pardons or something like that.

2 (23m 20s):
I think there's a very powerful Or resistance to the use of clemency parole to release people who are pretrial even so as an example in New York, the district attorney is of the different boroughs. These are the prosecutors responsible for incarcerating people. They have taken a stance against the release of people from Rikers. This is true in many many places across the country prosecutors make a public safety argument that we are less safe. If these folks are

1 (23m 53s):
released, do you think that there's the potential that will see, you know a sea change in how people feel about this idea of Dakar serration as this crisis continues. I mean, there's just been so many instances of these major reversals be it, you know South by Southwest definitely won't be cancelled to South by Southwest is definitely canceled and that definitely seems like the right thing to do now or be it just last week President Trump saying we're going to have the country back in business by And just this weekend the president saying, you know, that's absolutely not going to happen. Do you think come one two, three more weeks there might be I don't know some some people coming to the table and considering D car serration who absolutely won't even considered in the room right now.

2 (24m 41s):
I want to hope so, but the fear that that won't happen keeps me up at night eight or nine days ago. I sent an email to the New York prison system. Asking if they were considering tools like medical parole standard parole or whether the governor was considering clemency, like commuting sentences releasing people in large numbers to address this problem. There were only a few cases in the New York prison system at that time in the course of six days the number of cases in the New York prison system quadrupled. And so at the time they did not give me any indication that they were considering those measures the outbreak has already gotten much worse.

2 (25m 26s):
I do think that has the potential to change their minds but I think that there's an amount of fatigue in the public. I think when people read about more deaths and more infections and they see that it's starting to spread within the prison system. It's like people don't have any energy left. Left to be outraged about that,

1 (25m 48s):
too.

2 (25m 55s):
and I think that what it would take to change the nature of our prison system in this moment would be for people with the full authority to release individuals from the carceral system taking political risks doing courageous things and using tools like clemency that may be controversial but, you know Governor Cuomo And Trump in the federal system. Governor's across the country mayor's each have the power to individually D cursor 8 the system that they oversee for the sake of Public Health. They have that power and I think it's up to the public if they can muster the outrage to demand it of them.

1 (26m 40s):
and if they

2 (26m 40s):
don't a lot of people will die. We know the health system for people who are incarcerated is a lot worse than the health system outside. And as we know from the case of New York City this extremely robust highly skilled technologically advanced network of hospitals is totally overwhelmed. So imagine what it's going to be like in a prison infirmary in a couple weeks. Imagine what it's going to be like trying to relocate someone who's incarcerated. To an outside hospital when they are in need of a ventilator. I fear that this outbreak as bad as it is in the Free World will be far worse inside the prison

1 (27m 28s):
system.