4 (1s):
Rise.com is an all-in-one system that makes online training easy to create enjoyable to take and simple to manage create training from scratch or customized hundreds of pre-built lessons templates and Sample courses to build training even faster Learners love rise because training is beautiful and interactive managers love rise because training is simple to create distribute and analyze and it loves rise because it's completely secure see why you'll love Rise by starting a free 30-day trial at rise.com. today Over the weekend.

4 (43s):
We reached a new covid-19 Milestone

3 (45s):
half a million deaths worldwide

4 (47s):
and more than a quarter of those debts have been here in the US where we've had two point five million confirmed covid

3 (55s):
cases for States hitting One Day Records nearly 10,000 positive tests in Florida. Almost two thousand new cases in Georgia in Arizona this weekend almost one in ten testing positive,

4 (1m 8s):
but the Trump Administration is All super-excited about States

3 (1m 12s):
reopening we have made truly remarkable progress in moving our nation forward. We've all seen the encouraging news as we open up America again more than 3 million jobs created in the last jobs

4 (1m 26s):
report and the president's top economic adviser. Larry Kudlow says the risk of more covid death is just the cost of doing business.

3 (1m 35s):
We're going to have hot spots. No question. We have them now and you know, Texas and And parts of the South the Carolinas Arizona. We just have to live with

4 (1m 45s):
it. But local leaders are sounding the

3 (1m 47s):
alarm. We're going to have to dial it back because of what we see with the data and we're going to have to dial it back because I want to make sure that if we have to help somebody that we can help somebody.

4 (2m 3s):
Right. Now team reopen everything seems to be winning. Dylan Scott has been covering the reopening for

2 (2m 10s):
Vox, Florida, Texas Arizona in particular are the places that people are watching closely now because they have a number of worrying Trends. It's not only that their bra number of cases are is increasing but they're also seeing increased hospitalizations and they're seeing an increase in the number of tests that are being conducted that are coming back. Back

4 (2m 33s):
positive is that to say this can't be explained away just by having an increase in testing exactly. There is some truth to the

2 (2m 41s):
idea that you know, if you start conducting a lot more tests, you're going to find more cases, especially with a disease like this where a lot of people experience mild or even no symptoms at all. What's concerning and what we're seeing in some of these states is when we're either maintaining the same level of testing or increasing testing and the level of positive test coming. Because increasing that's what suggest two experts that the virus is actually spreading in the community and more people are catching

4 (3m 11s):
it. Do we know why this is happening. Can we peg this to all the reopening in the last few weeks?

2 (3m 18s):
So it's difficult to ignore that this is started to happen in a month or so after State started relaxing their stay-at-home orders, you know, allowing businesses and restaurants and bars to reopen as you know, any good scientist would Tell you correlation is not causation. But I do think a consensus is starting to form that as people are starting to resume Daily Life coming into contact with more people. This virus is finding a way to spread again and to some extent this was expected. But what's concerning is when you start to see hospitals in the Houston area most recently I saw over the weekend and some in California that are starting to reach, you know, there are maximum capacity in terms of the Since that they're able to accommodate and once we start to reach those levels where the health system is at risk of being overwhelmed.

2 (4m 10s):
That's when Public Health experts and political leaders get worried.

4 (4m 14s):
Is it possible that some of the mass protests we've seen over the last month have contributed to the surge to the data so far is is

2 (4m 22s):
inconclusive or and and seems to lean no. I spoke last week with a researcher in Minnesota because you know, it seemed to me anyway that many neapolis would be one of the first places you might see any kind of new surge as a result of protests since that's where the protests started and she told me that there really hadn't been anything thus far the public health experts I've spoken with have said in terms of just the number of exposures in the level of exposure all this reopening activity people going back to bars and restaurants and businesses. And the number of people who are going to be doing that far outweighs, you know, whatever number of people To a protest for a day or two that was Outdoors when they might have been wearing masks, you know, it's hard to draw an equivalence between the to the level of exposure that were risking through reopening as much higher than what people wrist by going to the

4 (5m 18s):
protest is this urge the same as earlier ones. Is it still mostly affecting older people? So it does seem

2 (5m 25s):
like the virus is now spreading more among younger people as opposed to older people compared to some of the earlier waves of the virus.

3 (5m 37s):
I've never seen anything that is so protein and its ability to make people sick or not. There's no other infectious disease that goes from 40 percent of the people having no symptoms to some having mild symptoms to some having severe some requiring staying at home for weeks some going to the hospital some getting intensive care some getting intubated some getting ventilated in some

2 (6m 1s):
dying. There was a really interesting study that came out of Tennessee, which is one of the state's people have been watching closely where they describe their covid case mix and basically what that means is they looked at, you know, how many people have been infected and as a result how many people you would expect to end up in the hospital based on what we know about this disease and in the early weeks of the pandemic the case-mix clearly skewed sicker like more even more people were ending up in the hospital than we might have expected. Based on the raw number of infections and what's happened over the last few weeks is that has flipped and now slightly fewer people are actually ending up in the hospital.

2 (6m 41s):
Then you might expect based on the case numbers. And that what that seems to indicate is that it's younger healthier people who are more resilient against the disease compared to the elderly are the ones getting sick a lot of young people do end up in the hospital. I know somebody or another reporter in DC he had caught the coronavirus said it was the sickest he had ever been His life and we're still learning a lot about the long-term complications and the potential permanent damage. That might be done to somebody who does recover from covid, but that doesn't mean they're necessarily going to be completely healthy at least right away.

3 (7m 16s):
I think what we're missing in this is something that we've never faced before is that a risk for you is not just isolated to you because if you get infected you are part innocently or Certainly of propagating the dynamic process of a

2 (7m 36s):
pandemic and I talked to a Harvard professor of a week or so ago asking about this very question, you know, have we seen as infection start to pick up in the younger population. Are we seeing any corresponding spread to more vulnerable populations? And he sent me a trove of links of new outbreaks in nursing homes in Arizona and Florida and California and Tennessee. And I think that is just added an Jason of how difficult it is to completely isolate the vulnerable populations and once communities spread picks up that also increases the risk that the virus is going to find its way to the people where it can do the most harm,

4 (8m 17s):
you know, you mentioned a place like Houston where the hospital system is close to being overwhelmed is Texas is Houston taking any measures any more serious measures now that the virus seems to be spreading so intensely. Yeah, I think a

2 (8m 31s):
good Decatur of the seriousness of the situation is that Texas governor Greg Abbott has re-imposed some restrictions that had previously been listed. I believe you closed all of the bars again in Texas

3 (8m 46s):
and come Monday restaurants have to go from using 75 percent to 50 percent capacity and lastly outdoor Gatherings of 100 or more people must be approved by local

2 (8m 58s):
government, you know and Abbott because all of this has To some degree become politicized to Abbott and his team were always pretty gung-ho about reopening and believing that they could allow business to resume while containing the retrovirus. And so I think the fact that even he has seen the need to re impose some restrictions tells you how worried people are about this spiraling out of control.

4 (9m 21s):
Is it possible for a state to have a second shut down at this point is that politically feasible? That's a great question and I think the big

2 (9m 30s):
unknown is whether a state would we willing to go all the way back into lockdown, you know stay at home orders almost all businesses are closed clearly for right now states are trying to mitigate these new spikes with some targeted restrictions closing bars may be limiting restaurant capacity restoring bands on large Gatherings or delaying the openings of places where there'd be large Gatherings like California has delayed the opening of Disneyland. And so I think for now Everybody wants to see what happens. If we take some of these more targeted measures are we able to start containing the virus keep our numbers and check keep some health system capacity to absorb new infections and new hospitalizations and see how that goes.

2 (10m 22s):
I think that's sort of the question that we're all wrestling with right now is can we manage the virus while maintaining some level of normal activity again or is the only way to keep this thing in check to have stay-at-home orders closed restaurants, you know, the really strict social distancing that we saw in March

4 (10m 43s):
April May. After the break why the lockdown reopen repeat cycle may just be beginning. I'm no I'm hassenfeld filling in for Sean Rama's for him. This is today

1 (10m 58s):
explained.

4 (11m 6s):
I know everyone's been cooking a ton during quarantine and that's great. But if you're falling into the same old dinner rotation and you want to break from last-minute stir-fries don't overthink it order in with caviar the caviar app offers a curated list of great local restaurants in more than twenty five major American cities. I know there are a lot of other delivery apps out there but caviar is a little different because it's truly the best place to find the smaller local restaurants that need your support now. Now more than ever and you can support them by getting great local delicious food. So download the caviar app for yourself stay safe inside and get the tasty food. You actually want your favorite restaurants the ones that you've been dreaming about you'll find them on caviar.

4 (11m 50s):
So go check it out and just for our listeners caviar is offering $10 off an order of $20 or more. All you have to do is put in the offer code explained at checkout. Remember that's $10 off a purchase of $20 or more with the offer code. And download caviar on the app store or Google Play Store and use offer code explained. Essential talks is a brand new podcast brought to you by sat a leading Global hygiene and health company in conjunction with the podcast SME will release their early 2020 pre-pandemic survey, which ask people how worried are you about the following threats to Public Health where you live? If you're curious the top three answers back then were the pollution of oceans rivers and drinking water government corruption and climate change pandemic outbreaks fell all the way down to 10th place.

4 (12m 41s):
But since then everything has changed due to Covid-19 today health and hygiene are now crucial parts of our everyday lives and the impact today's policy decisions this shift and so much more will be discussed in essential talks first episode hygiene and health in times of Corona. Listen to essential talks to hear more on how the pandemic has changed perceptions and behaviors regarding hygiene and health on Spotify iTunes or wherever you get your podcasts. Dylan we've been talking about the latest massive surgeon covid cases and most of these have been in states that didn't really get a surge the first time around but California had that surged back in March.

4 (13m 27s):
I think Governor Newsom even imposed the first Statewide lockdown back then there's a mutuality and there's a recognition of our interdependence that requires of this moment that we direct a Statewide order for people to stay at What happened? How did California drop the ball?

2 (13m 46s):
I think what's happening in California is to a large degree the same story as Florida and Texas

3 (13m 53s):
what's called a calculated risk as the state began to reopen more businesses State leaders expected cases to rise and hospitalizations tonight. Both are happening and leaders say they're

2 (14m 7s):
concerned officials there have pointed to relaxing social distancing, you know. Businesses reopening they've sighted people, you know, maybe not being as diligent about wearing their mass as they should be

4 (14m 18s):
but I don't think that there's any great

2 (14m 20s):
mystery. I mean it's a big state ton of people a large susceptible population and it like most of these other places has started to ease up on some of its social distancing restrictions. I don't necessarily think of it as there's anything unique to California's situation other than it's sort of relive. Sing something that other states are now going through for the first time but it does I think indicate, you know, some of the risks of reopening and potentially portends some of the actions that will be necessary to contain some of these new outbreaks. How

4 (14m 56s):
much is what's going on in California a sort of warning from the future for other states like New York, New Jersey Massachusetts these places that had big surges the first time around and kind of manage the spread but are now reopening.

2 (15m 11s):
I mean, there's all all kinds of confounding factors with all this stuff. I was looking at this before we started

3 (15m 16s):
talking and I think

2 (15m 17s):
Ohio is actually an interesting corollary to California because it's another place that was you know, had some pretty sharp increases in the early days that cause them to take aggressive action Governor. Mike dewine, especially among Republican Governors was one of the first to impose a Statewide stay-at-home order and the virus, you know, grew very slowly kind of plateaued through At that locks down period but now as they have started to reopen their starting to see the same kind of increase in new cases and hospitalizations and I saw that Governor dewine has been talking about taking actions very similar to what governor Newsom has done in terms of identifying particular cities or particular counties where the numbers look a little bit scary where we're seeing.

3 (16m 8s):
Potential problem areas are problem areas. We're going to work with the local officials and in conjunction with them make decisions about what else needs to be done. So it seems like for the time

2 (16m 18s):
being we are going to see if we can't have these really narrowly targeted interventions and hope that those are able to contain the

4 (16m 28s):
virus. You know when you talk about targeted interventions, I just think about what Ruth Bader Ginsburg said after a key part of the Voting Rights. Act was struck down. She said something like if you're out in the rain with an umbrella and your dry, you don't just say oh this umbrella clearly isn't doing anything. You keep the

2 (16m 46s):
umbrella. Yeah, and I think that's what we're discovering right now. It was something that public health experts were were cognizant of even before the stay-at-home orders really were imposed. Was this there's this sort of paradox in public health where if you're a intervention is really effective then it's going to seem like you overreacted because you know, the worst never happened because the intervention you took and so there became a lot of energy and pressure around reopening because obviously there's been a lot of Economic and even mental health pain from people being forced to quarantine and while I certainly understand that instinct it does not comport with what we know about.

2 (17m 29s):
How disease Outbreaks work and now we're seeing that if you give the virus more vectors with which to transmit it's going to take advantage of that and now we're seeing the consequences

4 (17m 41s):
and those consequences could be felt by states that are reopening more slowly right as long as there are

2 (17m 47s):
places in the United States where a virus this contagious is still spreading that means that the whole of the United States is to some degree vulnerable unless we're willing willing to build walls between North and, South Carolina. Are between Ohio and Indiana or what have you? There's no way as you say to totally protect against the virus finding its way back to some of these other places and so as we see the virus continue to find its way to new places. It is a reminder that we're all connected and unless we're willing to take steps to protect not only ourselves, but other people the virus is going to keep taking advantage of the opportunities that we give it

4 (18m 27s):
a few months ago. I kept hearing that some experts were saying and we're just going to have a series of outbreaks followed by lockdowns followed by outbreak solid by lockdowns and it seemed kind of hard for me to believe that that would happen because if we have outbreaks we should followed by a lockdown and then we'll be fine. It's starting to seem more likely to me. I mean, does that seem like the most likely outcome in the end that we're just going to have a series of outbreaks and lockdowns until we get a vaccine

3 (18m 55s):
it does seem like this cycle of

2 (18m 57s):
lockdown outbreak lockdown. Is going to continue until there is some kind of permanent solution to covid-19 whether a totally effective treatment or a vaccine. We're going to keep kind of turning the dial to try to figure out if there's some happy medium. We can find where some amount of daily life is allowed to continue without the virus spreading out his control and risking, you know Finding its way to nursing homes or risking too many. Or getting hospitalized in the healthcare system being overwhelmed but right now what's I guess a little bit scary is right now, we're in the middle of that process and we just don't know and it may turn out that lockdowns really are the only way to keep covid-19 contained and that reality is frightening in its own way given the level of economic pain that we've seen and just the sort of social toll that quarantine places on people.

2 (19m 56s):
So I'm no good answers for you know home fortunately. Um because it's an unprecedented situation and and the only thing we know for sure is that you know, we're going to be living with this this virus and the necessary effect that it has on our society and our everyday lives for for quite a long time.

4 (20m 43s):
One more time before you leave rise.com is an all-in-one system that makes online training easy to create enjoyable to take and simple to manage rise makes training so fun and you're gonna start watching training videos in your free time. You'll start posting about it on social media. You'll start proclaiming your love for it on daily podcasts. You can create training from scratch. You can customize hundreds of pre-built lessons templates and Sample courses to build training even faster, see why you'll love Rise by starting a free 30-day trial at rise.com. Today no one would have ever thought an entrenched immunity like Hollywood could let someone come in and completely disrupt the content.

3 (21m 22s):
I'm Ronnie mullah and I'm Peter Kafka and we are the host of a new season of Land of the Giants the Netflix effect for exploring all things Netflix by talking to the people who started the company will get into their bruising battle with Blockbuster. There was 20 times larger than us, which is not a good place to be. Okay so many as five I feel like so randomly lucky to survive. Survived well, look at the mistake that could have ended the company in hindsight. It was incredibly tone-deaf and it blew up in our faces as it should have and we'll talk about how Netflix took over our screens and how they plan to win the war for our attention Land of the Giants the Netflix effect from recode and the Box media podcast Network first episode drops, June 23rd.

3 (22m 2s):
Listen And subscribe on Apple podcast Spotify or wherever you get your pockets.