3 (6s):
It's Friday April 17th, 2020 and Michael Cohen is free at last. Well, I mean not yet. But soon this is your coronavirus update from today explained President Trump's former a bully Michael Cohen will be serving out the rest of his prison sentence from home. I guess we should expect the podcast soon. Be sure to not subscribe where every listen the president is also having quite a Friday in a show of solidarity with a rather vocal minority of Americans who have been protesting social distancing he tweeted Liberate Minnesota followed by liberate Michigan and then you wrapped up the trilogy with liber8, Virginia and savior great Second Amendment. It is under siege worth noting.

3 (46s):
All three of these states have Democratic Governors also worth noting the president told States last night to call their own shots for the record in a Quinnipiac poll over 80 percent of Americans support a national stay-at-home order the same poll found that about 31 percent of Americans would give the president an An F for his handling of this pandemic so far while 25% of Americans would give him an a you can grade the president yourself this November. Of course, there isn't a state in the Union that doesn't want to open back up as we established on yesterday's show first. We have to dramatically increase testing capabilities public health workers say we are not ramping up fast enough and the president's own task force coordinator.

3 (1m 29s):
Dr. Deborah birx told CNN last night that testing needs to be expanded in concert with Contact tracing and surveillance over in China. They are revising the covid-19 death toll raising it by 50% in the city of Wuhan. This comes after lots of questioning of how legitimate the original numbers were in the first place. China's economy sank for the first time since 1976 in the first three months of the year because of this novel coronavirus though kids have largely been spared. The UN is warning about the pandemics long-term impacts on the world's children secretary. General Antonio guterres acknowledged that close schools and lost jobs will affect all countries, but the world's poorest countries and poorest children will suffer the most many of you have emailed us to ask what you can do with your stimulus checks because you don't necessarily need them consider Charities that focus on global poverty.

3 (2m 23s):
Ireland is giving a little more in light of President Trump's decision to suspend funding to the World Health Organization the countries foreign minister tweeted so many countries rely on un expertise and capacity. Cassidy to save lives Ireland is quadrupling our annual contribution to who for 2020 today explain want to do more for kids wherever you are get your favorite kids to call us and tell us about their coronavirus experience and ask questions about this pandemic if they've got them. The number is two zero two six eight eight five nine four four. That's our listener voicemail line. Make sure they leave their first name age and location.

3 (3m 3s):
Thank you from Shaun. 85 District of

1 (3m 7s):
Columbia

3 (3m 17s):
Before we get into the show a quick note about the Thera gun. It's a medical device. That's essentially a cross between a power tool and a professional masseuse. If that's the kind of cross you've been looking for recently. It's apparently really good at relieving the general aches that have come from staying cooped up at your home every day. I could use something to relieve my general aches. I am currently coming at you from a closet if you'd like to feel better naturally treat your pain and get back to life as you might have remembered it. Try the Thera gun risk free for 30 days or your money back by going to Thera gun.com / explained and for a limited time. You can get up to $150 off your device that is there a gun.com explained their gun is spelled th er a GU n.com explained.

3 (4m 12s):
On yesterday's show I spoke to Zeke Emanuel about the path forward. It involves in the immediate future sticking with social distancing but then seriously ramping up how much PPE we have for Frontline workers and how much testing were doing of Americans and contact tracing. We haven't even started with that yet. This is how we get back to normalcy on some level but it's not quite How This Ends and no I'm hassenfeld has been reporting on how it Ends for today. Explain. No, I'm yeah, the only way this all really ends is with a vaccine. The big problem with coronavirus is that there's so many asymptomatic cases, you know people walking around with coronavirus. They don't even know they have it they're infecting other people.

3 (4m 54s):
And so the only way to stop this isn't with treatment it's with prevention and when we talk about ending we're talking about what getting back to the place where we can go to Coachella and feel cool. Yeah. I mean we're talking about things that we used to take for granted. I mean bars clubs sporting. Events and there's a recent poll that said that even if live sporting events start happening again about three-quarters of Americans would not go to them unless there's a vaccine. Hmm. So let's talk vaccines. I mean people are working on this across the globe, right? Yeah. I mean according to the who there's at least 70 coronavirus vaccines in development all over the world, but coronavirus research didn't just start in

1 (5m 33s):
2024. The last decade our vaccine Center has been working on a search. Coronavirus vaccine that currently sits in a

3 (5m 43s):
freezer Maria Elena boat icy cold leads vaccine development at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston,

1 (5m 49s):
and there is a great chance that vaccines that were initially developed for SARS could provide partial protection against the covid-19 virus and most importantly even future coronavirus

3 (6m 3s):
outbreaks. Now she and her team are taking what they learned from working on the czar's vaccine and they're bringing it to a vaccine. Or the novel coronavirus the vaccine is designed to retrain your immune system. Here's how it normally works.

1 (6m 16s):
We produce little

3 (6m 18s):
cells T cells B cells.

1 (6m 21s):
We also know that cells produce other enzymes and proteins like antibodies and this is what we call our human immunological Army Cadets, right? You know, so, it's our army.

3 (6m 35s):
When your body detects an outside Invader like a virus or another

1 (6m 39s):
microbe these little Cadets which is our whole Army get together and like when you're in a war you create a strategy to go and try to combat this

3 (6m 50s):
micro. That's the battlefield. Here's where the vaccine comes in.

1 (6m 57s):
A vaccine is a molecule that we inject into the human body that mimics some virus and therefore the body can then produce antibodies against it.

3 (7m 9s):
The vaccine is weaker than the real virus but to your body it looks just like the real thing. So the vaccine gives our immune system a trial run at fighting the

1 (7m 18s):
virus such that when we get the real infection, we already know that You know that is a foreign entity and our body can produce antibodies against

3 (7m 29s):
it. The first vaccine dates back to the 18th century. When a British doctor named Edward Jenner noticed that milkmaids weren't getting smallpox turns out they had been exposed to cowpox, which is pretty similar

1 (7m 44s):
when you had smallpox. You already were protected because both organisms were very

3 (7m 49s):
close. So generous started exposing people to cowpox on

1 (7m 53s):
purpose using cowpox postures that you would inoculate patients and then they would prevent

3 (7m 58s):
smallpox, but getting cowpox was still pretty bad. Not as bad as smallpox, but still not fun eventually though scientists started to realize that they didn't need to expose people to live viruses. You can take a virus manipulate it

1 (8m 13s):
either inactivated or kill

3 (8m 16s):
it and because the virus has the same shape the immune system gets the practice it needs but still you have to deal with an actual live virus before you can kill it not ideal.

1 (8m 26s):
And so therefore there are other strategies where you then kind of like take apart the

3 (8m 32s):
virus looking for that one thing that can get your body to jump start the immune system and it all leads to

1 (8m 38s):
this point. Can we just pick a single protein within the

3 (8m 42s):
virus? This protein actually just a piece of it is what Maria Elena wants to inject into people's bodies. You may have actually seen it already. It's been plastered all over that grayish ball with red triangular

1 (8m 57s):
spikes. The spike protein is essential because that's what the virus uses to get inside the cells

3 (9m 3s):
Maria Elena needs to figure out a way to make that Spike protein in the

1 (9m 7s):
lab. Correct. We are brewing a vaccine

3 (9m 14s):
to start. A base

1 (9m 16s):
in our Laboratories. We love the yeast expression system. And the reason is because they're very Avid producers.

3 (9m 25s):
It's a process that actually looks sort of familiar.

1 (9m 28s):
Maybe you are familiar on how in fact East is our producer of beer. In fact, when you go to a Brewing Company the way that you produce berries through these huge. A manga stainless steel machines that are allowing these skis to just grow and you're feeding them food, right? So what do you feed them? You feed them sugars that then gives your alcohol like a taste and whether it's an Amber ale or whether it's you know, so we do exactly the same in our Laboratories, but instead of telling our yeast to produce alcohol we change the way that we code the yeast and we tell the yeast Forget about the alcohol

3 (10m 19s):
then Maria Elena and her team give the yeast the genetic code for that Spike

1 (10m 23s):
protein. Ultimately what the East is doing is actually secreting all these proteins in this broth right in the

3 (10m 31s):
liquid gurgles and Bubbles and burps for a

1 (10m 34s):
bit. Usually last year. I don't know three four days and we get a nice broth that has are, you know vaccine protein. Believe it or

3 (10m 46s):
not. This is sort of the easy part because after this comes lots and lots and lots of

1 (10m 52s):
testing. Unfortunately it requires time right because first you have to look for

3 (10m 57s):
safety a rushed vaccine could create something called immune enhancement, which could make the immune system

1 (11m 3s):
supercharged attacking kind of randomly, right you want this attack to be very specific just to the cells that maybe have the virus but at the same time not Start affecting all the normal cells that are

3 (11m 18s):
around you on top of the safety. You obviously need to make sure the vaccine works that it actually makes someone immune.

1 (11m 26s):
So how long will it take? You know, we've been hearing that it may take a year. It may take 18 months. It may take longer

3 (11m 34s):
and that 12 to 18 months is

1 (11m 36s):
aspirational. The fastest way that we have ever been able to develop a vaccine has been for

3 (11m 44s):
years and if this Aspirational goal is somehow met it'll raise a whole new set of

1 (11m 49s):
questions. Then we have to turn around and say okay who's going to make it how quickly can it be scaled up how quickly can it be delivered and then the aspiration is that we don't do things in a non Equitable manner. We want to vaccines for everyone that needs

3 (12m 7s):
it all of these unanswered questions. It's a lot to handle

1 (12m 11s):
so indeed. It's a it's a pretty high responsibility. In the I have to say we wake up with you know, that heavy heavy weight on our shoulders. It's very stressful for us and I wish we could do

3 (12m 28s):
more. It's especially heavy for Maria Elena because she's been through this before

1 (12m 33s):
we've already had seen two other prior coronavirus related outbreaks with SARS and MERS. So it was a huge disappointment for us. Stration for our group that has been working on a coronavirus vaccine program for more than a decade

3 (12m 52s):
and all that research. That's what sitting in her freezer

1 (12m 55s):
funding dried up other things, of course getting the attention of the world, you know, Dengue zika, Ebola and everybody thought, you know, maybe this will never come back and as you can see that was not the case, you know, that reality is this Will continue to happen. So this brings to the attention that we cannot just go and invest and then just because at one point or another, you know, that priority is not there that we just leave them halfway if we would have had evidence of Prior SARS and even Merce vaccines, we may already know a lot more than what we know now.

3 (13m 49s):
The vaccines going to take a long time. No one's arguing that point but there is a radical way to speed it up. That's after the break on today

1 (13m 58s):
explained.

3 (14m 17s):
Today's episode is you heard earlier is brought to you by the Thera gun, which is something like a high-tech meat tenderizer for your sore muscles and I'm quoting what a joy to quote that it's a handheld device with a pulsating pad designed to unknot the toughest knots just hold the Thera gun against the trouble spots and let it do its thing. They're gone is apparently beloved by all sorts of beefed-up elite athletes, but Also a pretty nifty tool for regular people like you and me who don't look like beefed-up athletes after all it's a great way to deal with the aches and muscle tensions and other little pains that pop up when you're stuck working from that terrible chair in your kitchen all day long.

3 (15m 2s):
That's like pretty close to where I'm at actually so for better natural treatment of your pain and to try and get back to how your body may be used to feel try the their gun risk free for 30 days or your money back by going. Owing to faragonda.com explain for a limited time today explain listeners get up to a hundred and fifty dollars off their Thera gun there a gun A gun. You don't have to hate there are gun.com explained there are gun.

1 (15m 35s):
This is Advertiser content climate change the global Refugee crisis cybercrime. The big issues are huge and we're just a notification away from more bad news. It's leading to something called headline stress disorder and the first notable spike in stress in a decade and a decade ago. We were knee-deep in a global recession. So why does scrolling through a Newsfeed leave us feeling powerless anxious even afraid we just get a little tired of seeing Some of the worst things that happen on the planet and then walking away that's journalist Nellie for her diet host of course correction a podcast presented by Doha debates and Qatar Foundation.

1 (16m 15s):
Now offer is part of a new generation of journalists who see the news as an opportunity to empower whether it's me trying to figure out how globalization has affected people where I'm from and I've want to stand in Kabul or challenging myself to figure out how much data and information I put out on the web. AB it's focused on trying to get the reality of these big gigantic problems down to an individual level because focusing on what we can solve decreases stress and improves mental health. Every single accomplishment is just it just makes you feel better. I'm hoping course correction is a little bit of shock to the system to make people realize the impact that we have be a part of the conversation for change.

1 (17m 1s):
Listen to course correction wherever you get your podcast. Today

3 (17m 12s):
I was like, all right. Now I'm you're gonna tell us about a way we can speed this whole vaccine process up. How does that work? Yeah. So once you make the vaccine the testing takes a long long time, usually the way it works is you randomize people into two groups group a gets the vaccine group b gets a placebo and then you just wait and see if more people from Group B get sick if that happens. It's a sign that the vaccines working, but this takes forever. Because researchers have to wait and see if those people naturally get exposed to the virus and that takes even longer when everyone's social distancing so we won't know for many months and it might just be too late nir Eyal is a professor of bioethics at Rutgers University in New Jersey.

3 (17m 53s):
We propose instead to do a challenge study in a challenge study. You deliberately expose people to a virus sign this case to coronavirus and you compare the two groups the vaccine. Of the control knowing that everybody was exposed to that virus. This could save a lot of time. We hope that you enjoy lunch could shave off several months. We're talking about Savings of thousands if not millions of lives, but there's a trade-off here. It's not everyday that doctors give germs to people deliberately. The first dictum doctors like to say of medicine is first Do no harm premium.

3 (18m 34s):
No, not sorry. Giving somebody a deadly virus doesn't at all look in line with that. It took some weeks to convince one co-author and eventually a second quarter to jump on board initially. They also thought that I was crazy even though a human challenge isn't a totally unorthodox idea. We do you mean challenges a lot for diseases like seasonal flu typhoid malaria, but it's unusual to Document challenges for something that is killing so many people so that's why initially it might create the impression that there is an ethical problem on the other hand just because something is risky doesn't mean it shouldn't be allowed.

3 (19m 22s):
It's legitimate to allow people to say volunteer to be EMS workers in this crisis. Although it's risky for them. It's legitimate to ask people to donate kidneys to others we let Let them do it, although it wasn't in their own best interests. Why should we stop people when they try to do something that we need in a very dire way in order to save potentially millions of lives. My name is Josh Morrison. I live in Brooklyn when I read near his article about human challenge trials. I was really excited by the idea and it was one that maybe could make a difference.

3 (20m 4s):
So I created this website to organize volunteers who are interested in participating in challenge trial and since then we've got more than a thousand people signed up as a young and healthy person. I think participating in a vaccine trial would have pretty limited risks in comparison to the enormous potential upside.

1 (20m 22s):
Furs in my religious tradition Judaism teach that to save a single life. It's as if you've saved the entire world, this is a pretty unique thing to be able to donate your health. So I wanted to share that if at all possible, I was involved in a head-on collision and a tractor trailer accident back in

3 (20m 42s):
2014 ever since I've been put on permanent disability. I would love to be involved in the study mainly to be able to help and protect others, especially 13 year old daughter who I absolutely adore and would rather me be the one to be subjected to this virus in her stead. I'm a third-year medical student and that means right now I'm not far enough along in my education to actually be able to help out with patient care to me a challenge trial is a way that I can contribute to help speed up vaccine development and other aspects of patient

1 (21m 14s):
care. I'm young. I'm healthy. I don't have kids and I'm a historian. So while the things that I teach the critical thinking skills. This is questions about how we know what we know. Well all the things that I do are really important at this moment in time. It's not the same as doctors and nurses serving in hospitals this felt like a contribution that I could make and that my willingness to do so would be really important because it's not something that everyone would want to do

3 (21m 43s):
not everyone has been won over so quickly by this idea.

1 (21m 46s):
So there's this history of challenge studies that have been done on vulnerable populations with high risk. That have been really

3 (21m 54s):
controversial see Machado is a bioethicist at Lurie Children's Hospital in Chicago.

1 (21m 59s):
So one example is the Willowbrook hepatitis study. So these were studies where children who are institutionalized in the 50s and 60s were deliberately infected with hepatitis.

3 (22m 9s):
And even though the researchers got consent from the

1 (22m 11s):
parents parents didn't have as free of a choice as you would want because they may not have been able to get into the institution if they didn't agree to the study. And many of them were otherwise wait-listed to get their children into the institution the study did produce valuable information and obtained consent and the researchers thought carefully about risk, but this episode is widely considered highly controversial and something at damage. The Public's trust in research

3 (22m 42s):
near understands these issues which is why he concedes that his human challenge trial needs to pass a high ethical bar. This study must be done with the highest. Informed consent so certainly no children. No prisoners. No paying participants. I don't want people who would join just because they are in dire need of a job in this economic recession. We should triple check comprehension of the risks. This is a study that should be done in the way that respects the autonomous will of the participants the most we can and near wants to recruit Young. Young healthy participants to minimize risk still there's no denial that there could be a fatality in such a study as there could be in other efficacy studies.

3 (23m 35s):
My main argument however is not relying so much on how small this number is. It relies on the fact that these people would benefit from being in the study. Participants might actually be better off being exposed to coronavirus in a human challenge. What bioethicists think is the relevant number to measure is not so much the likelihood that somebody will die. But the Gap the difference between your chances outside the study and your chances inside the study coronavirus infections and deaths continue to rise and hospitals continue to be overwhelmed.

3 (24m 22s):
And this is the thing the demarcate it's coronavirus from a lot of other diseases because with coronavirus we know With that so many of us will be infected in a few months and we know that so many of us should we heaven forbid require life support will not be able to find it. It will be better to be treated in state-of-the-art facilities with the best researchers. Sometimes accompanied by the best clinicians around and the minute you get infected before you're even symptomatic they can direct therapy to you. But even with young people this can be risky.

1 (25m 1s):
There are significant numbers of young people who are dying and we don't fully understand why and they don't seem to have other conditions that are causing them to

3 (25m 10s):
die and there are questions about whether a trial like this could be

1 (25m 14s):
definitive maybe healthy 20 year old who doesn't have any other comorbidities isn't going to tell you how well the vaccine will do it protecting someone who's older or who has a lot of other conditions, but even

3 (25m 27s):
Seema thinks Like this is worth considering

1 (25m 30s):
it would be a mistake to rule these studies out and say, you know, it's too risky. We just shouldn't even consider them at the present moment.

3 (25m 38s):
We've just never seen anything quite like this. This

1 (25m 41s):
is a pretty extraordinary circumstance. So we might think differently about risk because what we can learn might be considerably more and considerably more valuable than it has been in almost any other case we can think of

3 (25m 59s):
No, where does this leave us? We have this way to expedite the process but it's an ethical quandary. People say it's dangerous. What's going to happen? Well, I'm not sure to tell you the truth. But one thing I can tell you from my reporting is that because these things have such a long time frame on them because a decision you make now maybe won't come to fruition until months even years later people are starting to consider making decisions from a place of uncertainty will kinds of decisions are people making well take Manufacturers, for example, they're starting to talk about making vaccines at risk meaning manufacturing vaccines before they even have testing finished. So they're basically going to have to take a bet on which vaccine is going to work before really knowing and how big a bed is that?

3 (26m 45s):
Well according to one CEO if they do this sort of manufacturing early idea if the tests come back and it turns out the vaccine that they chose doesn't work. They'd be out about 30 billion dollars. Hmm, but he's talking about doing it. Anyway, he's talking. About putting 30 billion dollars on the line, which means it's definitely crunch time. It's definitely crunch time. And at the same time there's so much that still unknown. We don't know how many people are infected but asymptomatic. We don't know how the virus might mutate and what that could mean for a vaccine and as far as the human challenge this potential key that could speed up the whole process.

3 (27m 25s):
We don't fully know. It's true potential, but we're About months and years long time frames here. So we're going to have to start making decisions really soon and some of those decisions might be uncomfortable. No, I'm hassenfeld as a reporter at today explained the rest of the team includes a team Shapiro. I'm gonna al-saadi Jillian Weinberger Bridget McCarthy and Halima Shah. Cecilia lay is our fact Checker the mysterious brake master cylinders are Heartbreaker. Liz Nelson is the editorial director of vocs podcast special Banks this week to Josh Morrison and natalier in for their help today explained is part of the VOX media podcast Network.

3 (28m 17s):
If you don't know now, you know. listener