2 (12s):
I don't think there's anyone on planet Earth who thinks about dating apps more than my friend Andrea silenzio for proof. You can check out our Instagram. It's filled with screenshots from all our different

1 (23s):
apps. If you open up my phone I have over 10 dating apps on here because I kind of believe the hype sometimes that if I just get on the right app, then everything's going to be okay. So I have the league. I have hinge I bumble I have tender I have Raya I have Jay swipe coffee meets Bagel match. Field Lex OkCupid her chorus meet nice crap. I'm on everything I can get onto

2 (51s):
Andrea used to host a great dating podcast called

1 (54s):
yoy and every dating story for you. So I moved to LA a year ago. And in the past year I've gone on a lot of First Dates. One of them was with this guy who I met on the dating a pariah. It's the dating app for quote unquote celebrities, but also creatives it's really mostly DJs from Australia and lingerie models, but this guy's profile stood out to me. First of all, he worked in television, which I thought was so cool an industry that I felt like we'd have a lot to talk about. And then also he just had this great old-fashioned handsomeness.

1 (1m 37s):
It's kind of hard to describe but just seemed very put together. I Google stalked him a lot just to make sure you would be a good guy and everything was pointing to yes. I knew that we had mutual friends that he probably didn't realize we had I knew about how he takes a boxing class and I knew all these tiny details from his life down to what is is nice looks like whether or not he likes dogs that made me feel incredibly safe on the state with this person. So we met at a funky retro 70s bar called good times at Davey

2 (2m 16s):
Wayne's.

1 (2m 21s):
It's the kind of place where you there's a secret entrance you walk in through a refrigerator door. And then when you get in it's kind of like a 70s rec room basement. It's a bar full of couches. Your next two lamps their records on the wall and old stone fireplace. It feels like You're in the basement at That 70s Show just like really fun. Funky Vibe.

2 (2m 45s):
And are you getting drinks food what

1 (2m 48s):
you're not supposed to food on a first date. What is that question? So just drinks. Yeah, just a drink and our conversation was going great. He had a lot of confidence and energy, but he kept getting up to leave for the bathroom. No, shame, right. He probably has Crohn's disease. You don't tell someone about Crohn's disease until the third date, you know, so everything was going great the date ended. And then he asked if I'd walk into his office and he said he needed to get something from his office. So I was like sure I'll walk you there.

1 (3m 28s):
So we walk over to his office. He kind of leans me against the gate by the entrance it gives me this long sexy kiss and I'm excited. I can see a future with this person. So he goes inside his office and he comes back with this plastic bag, and I'm like what's in the bag and he pulls it out. It's a bottle of very Each Cheap whiskey and it's half empty. And that was the first moment. I realized that he might have already been drunk before our date. Oh, no, and then he says I just want to be really direct with you Andrea. I really like you. I think the state's going awesome. You know, I just want to cut to the chase. I'd like to have you come back to my apartment.

1 (4m 7s):
And well he asked to do a really specific sexual act and I said no I was scandalized to be clear and He proceeded to walk me to my car and the whole way. That was all he would talk about and couldn't hear me say no to

2 (4m 25s):
him

1 (4m 27s):
that should have been the last time he asked me to do that. You know, we're close are completely on rocking on Sunset Boulevard and I just can't believe I have to keep saying no to this that he can't register my words and you know, you think in this current climate hashtag me too that a woman say no. I don't want to do that with you. He would be able to Jeremy knowing that we had mutual friends that we work in the same industry and there was this feeling on my drive home after I said goodbye to him that I just felt why am I still dating? It's just such reality distorting that you also could be with someone where you felt safe and then suddenly feel so much pressure and so unsafe and just kind of like rushing to your

2 (5m 10s):
car a lot of People who use dating apps have experiences like Andrea's but it's impossible to know how many people are having these experiences or Worse Elizabeth Puccini recently tried to find out for 16 months. She and her colleagues at Columbia journalism investigations attempted to gather data about sexual violence on dating apps as a heads up what she found was disturbing.

1 (5m 43s):
We found a hundred and fifty Seven cases in which the A little salt a rape occurred off of an online dating app, we found that by pulling news clips and then cooperating them with police reports or lawsuits and court documents. We also did an exploratory survey of about 1,200 women who've used an online dating app in the past 15 years and found that out of these 1,200 women about 1/3. So 30 percent said they were sexually assaulted off of an online dating app, which is quite a significant number. Amber we also saw some instances in which there were repeat offenders. So people who were convicted rapist sometimes multiple time convicted rapists using the apps again to reoffend

2 (6m 30s):
had anyone ever done an investigation like yours into these

1 (6m 33s):
apps. No, not today. There was a lot of individual news reports about specific cases, but there hadn't yet been a overarching look into the industry as a whole and from there we Rest that the most frequent apps. We're all owned by this one company called match Group, which is a company based in Dallas with one point seven billion dollars in revenue and they own 45 dating platforms including the most popular dating apps like Tinder hinge OkCupid and Plenty of Fish and they were probably the most occurring apps because they're the most popular sites, but it led us to question.

1 (7m 17s):
Question what is matched group safety measures? What are their practices and what are their

2 (7m 22s):
promises? Did you see any effort to protect

1 (7m 25s):
users? We saw some interesting agreements including one in 2012 that was signed with then Attorney General of California. Kamala Harris

2 (7m 37s):
online dating websites have agreed to screen for sex offenders. Now this comes after a southern California woman was assaulted on a date match.com or eHarmony and Sparkman. works we'll check subscribers against sex offender Registries and also provide a way for users to report abuses

1 (7m 54s):
and it was basically an agreement on best industry practices and match group signed as well as eHarmony and Sparks Network which owns like Christian Mingle and JDate and they agreed that screening against the sex offender registry was a best industry practice for their paid products now as match.com became the public we traded match group and acquired such apps as Tinder hinge and OkCupid they didn't extend this practice to their free products or even to users who are paying for premium features within their free products.

2 (8m 32s):
So you're saying the match Group which owns Tinder and hinge match.com OkCupid has the ability to screen against sex offenders, but they're only doing it for some of their paid services not even all of them

1 (8m 45s):
correct their promise was originally For paid products, but they didn't extend it to their free ones as they grew larger and larger over

2 (8m 52s):
time. Hmm and you contacted them in your investigation how they respond to what you found dozens upon dozens of cases of sexual assault or even rape

1 (9m 3s):
basically in their statement. They said they don't tolerate sex offenders on their sites, but they also said that on their free products like Tinder Plenty of Fish and OkCupid, they're not able to obtain sufficient and reliable information to make meaningful. The background checks possible. So that's their words. Another thing. We commonly heard from the company is that it gives a false sense of security. So they're worried or argument is if we tell users or background checking other users than people won't take proactive measures

2 (9m 34s):
themselves, isn't it? Like in match.com interest to keep its users safe?

1 (9m 41s):
I think financially it can cost money to do background checks, depending on what type or what level But I think if there's enough user Awareness on safety measures, I would think there's an incentive to keep users safe in order to grow their base. I guess gaming this

2 (9m 59s):
out. What would a system that protected users from say convicted rapists or other kinds of sex criminals look like

1 (10m 10s):
it depends. I think that companies like this have said that sex offenders and even felons aren't allowed. Loud on their apps and their terms of service. So if they're going to uphold users to that there could be a screening and check to make sure that that's true and I think an app that is taking user safety seriously is one in which they are very proactively following up about users reports of rape and also proactively screening against the sex offender registry or doing background checks if that's what they're going to say. Others aren't allowed to do or be on in their terms of service.

2 (10m 52s):
I mean, I guess the thing is that it's totally working without users having protections like these right? I mean how many people are using these apps right now and doing now?

1 (10m 59s):
Yeah exactly. There's millions of people using these apps. So I kind of depends on what category you're going to use to measure so there's paid subscriptions monthly users active users, but I'd say roughly Tinder has reported that they have an audience reach Of about 7 million users, which is the most popular online dating app in the US and then Bumble is second ranked at around five million

2 (11m 27s):
users. Okay, so millions and millions of people are using these apps potentially every day without these kinds of Protections in place. Is there any chance anyone's going to do anything about it? If that many people don't seem to Really Care.

1 (11m 44s):
We'll see there's a house subcommittee now. Eating match group The Humble grinder and meet group particularly about underaged users and sex offenders. So maybe there will be an incentive to change things. We're not quite sure.

2 (11m 59s):
So it's essentially on users to protect themselves.

1 (12m 3s):
Exactly. I'd really say that it's the thesis of what we came to find is the burden and responsibility is really on the

2 (12m 11s):
user. Elizabeth Puccini, she's with Columbia journalism investigations. Her study was published in conjunction with propublica. You can find it over at propublica dot-org. It's titled Tinder. Let's known sex offenders use the app. It's not the only one so it's on you to keep yourself safe after the break and uracil NZ returns with her online dating safety tips. I'm Sean Rama's firm and this is today. plant Hi, I'm Jesse David Fox senior editor at vulture and host of the podcast good one a podcast about jokes every week.

2 (13m 16s):
I interview comedian writer performer about one of their jokes the joking come from their stand-up special of Saturday Night Live sketch or song or even a book we break down the joke and figure out how it works what inspired it and what it says about their sense of humor for comedy fans. It's a serious discussion about the craft of jokes and for interview fans. It's a really funny conversation between two people. People have a lot to say about comedy for fans of sex advice podcasts might not be exactly what you're looking for. But maybe need something to talk about after all that sex. You're having new episodes a good one come out every Tuesday starting February 25th, subscribe for free on Apple podcast on your favorite podcast app from vulture in the VOX media podcast Network. Have a good one.

1 (13m 58s):
Hi, I'm Ariel Jim Ross. And I'm the host of a podcast called reset reset is a podcast about the impact of technology how humans have shaped it and how technology reflects our values and biases reset is also a podcast about how much good Tech has accomplished and how much better it could be if we listen to each other recently. We've covered stories about how artificial intelligence is being used to track coronavirus. We've also covered how to solve the problem of child Predators on gaming sites. Why our night sky might soon be filled with thousands of new satellites subscribe to reset for free on Apple podcasts Spotify or in your favorite podcast app later nerds.

1 (14m 49s):
A lot of my friends have developed a new policy, which is not to give your matches your real phone number until after the date and this is because if you give someone your real phone number, it means that they can continue to message you after the date ends if it turns out to be a bad date, so if someone reacts badly to you saying hey, do you mind if we keep messaging within the app? I like to wait to give out my phone number. He has a bad reaction to that. That's not someone you want to go on that date with in the first place. Good to know. Another thing I do is I always ask for the last name. I want to Google you and see if you're a real person. I have a friend who recently asked for last name and he said oh, hey if something comes up that makes you think I murdered someone, you know, I'm happy to explain it some more and he really did possibly murder someone so I'm just You know, you gotta ask that

2 (15m 44s):
last name deeply unsettling

1 (15m 45s):
Andrea more safety tips always get to the bar early make friends at the bartender find a way to make a joke that implies them on a first date like oh, I hope he gets here Tinder, you know, and then I pay for my drink so my tab is closed out I can leave at any moment. And then my last safety tip is to always listen to your own warning signs. So if something feels off like he won't stop going to the bathroom through The date and just feels like you're thinking yourself. I wonder if he's using drugs like pay attention that little voice because it

2 (16m 20s):
matters. Thank you, Andrea.

1 (16m 24s):
So then these are the fun

2 (16m 24s):
tips. Oh good.

1 (16m 28s):
I think when you look at people's dating profiles instead of looking for what you dislike, you know, I don't like that sports team. There's too many photos of him with his friends, you know, try to stop and really think about something you might like that draws you to that person and it also just keeps your head in a more positive place. So you're not just like filling yourself with Dread and hate the whole experience. My other tip is to always show your profile to a friend get them to call you out on your bullshit. And then the other thing is to find a way of keeping track of your dates to make sure you're actually going on dates because online dating can feel like dating but it's not your just swiping.

1 (17m 12s):
I think you actually need a log the hours with someone across the table with a drink in your hand to get better at dating

2 (17m 20s):
Andrea to the best of your abilities. When did the like online dating Revolution start? Was it like eHarmony? Was it OkCupid match.com. It was before Tinder, right?

1 (17m 31s):
I mean online datings for me feels like as old as being online. So my grandma when in the early days of AOL heard about a website called classified mm.com

2 (17m 44s):
what it sounds like real

1 (17m 45s):
estate. It kind of wasn't this like the first classified section online before Craigslist became just the one we use for that and they had a personal section. She heard about it from her friend Rota and she wrote her own personal ad on it 65 ish. Plumpish Jewish was the title of her personal ad and she heard from younger guys. She heard from gun collector. She heard from all kinds of people and then she heard from my grandpa's all and she knew he was the one when they got in the cab after their lunch date and he said we're off like a herd of

2 (18m 21s):
turtles slow down Grandpa's all

1 (18m 24s):
which was the thing. My grandpa used to say cute. So my grandma obviously a Pioneer, but then I wasn't really hearing about online dating until around. Around 2009 when my college exes were telling me that they were doing it and that's when I started to hear a lot about a website called OkCupid.com. So I signed up for okay keep it in probably 20 10 and your OKCupid profile involves filling out a survey, you know, uploading a collection of photos probably from your digital camera. It was just a totally different moment for online. Eating and you would kind of have it open at work as another tab on your browser.

1 (19m 8s):
But doing it on your phone made so much sense that the moment tender launched there was kind of No Going Back.

2 (19m 16s):
Yeah Tinder the game changer shoutouts to

1 (19m 19s):
grinder. Yeah tender shows up in 2012. There was this internet entrepreneur just enmity new hosted a party at his parents house in California. In order to get in he asked sorority sisters and fraternity brothers from nearby colleges to be sure that they downloaded this new app. He just created called Tinder so tender started at a college party.

2 (19m 41s):
What is it about this college party dating app that was such a game changer. Was it just that it was on your phone.

1 (19m 48s):
So tender was the first time that we had swiping on our phones. Were you sort different profiles with your thumbs going left and right for no and yes and that app device just Change the way we use our phones and for me as a dater, it was suddenly fun to online date

2 (20m 5s):
again because it kind of gamified the whole thing, huh?

1 (20m 8s):
Yeah, and it made me feel powerful in a way that I hadn't felt with online dating before, you know, I'm just using my little thumb, but I'm like I could picture a future with you never you you don't get to talk to me and that's actually tender with had this built-in safety privacy feature, which is that only the people that you opted to allow meth to message you got to message you OkCupid it felt like standing naked on a subway platform, you know would be message after message from guys saying nice eyes. Oh, I like your bike, you know, whatever nonsense. They wanted to tell me about me. Okay, the bike compliment is very nice, but I'm just not interested.

2 (20m 49s):
I wonder you know, I mean with all of the the new apps and all of the trend towards going online to find your partner to go on your date to meet a romantic interest. Whatever might be what has it done to like our sense of romance. What has it done to like the numbers on dating and marriage and all that stuff as it is it revolutionized love.

1 (21m 9s):
We have more single people than at any other time in history. Millennials are getting married later than any other generation before. But when it comes to dating apps, I don't think they're helping solve that you know, single people problem. The the research is actually showing that we are not actually dating that much anymore. What so there's survey data from 2017. This is a study from Stanford that showed that only 18.7% of unpark nerd heterosexual men and 11.4% of fun part nerd heterosexual women went on any dates at all in the past year. So over 80 percent of all single people aren't dating and I think we all have that friend who says I don't know.

1 (21m 56s):
I just can't do it anymore. I'll make time for it next year. I gotta lose 5 pounds or whatever. I just I have these friends who are very comfortable putting off the work of dating because it sucks. It's terrible. I mean, it would have been my preference to meet someone years ago and never have to develop this expertise. But the

2 (22m 16s):
wait a minute the vast majority. E of single people in America more than 80% of them are not dating aren't millions of people using these apps

1 (22m 23s):
dating apps are now the number one way people meet. I need to shop like this is the way people meet. Now. You could look at the second most popular dating app in the US, which is Bumble and that's behind Tinder. They say they have 81 million users in a hundred and fifty countries, although caveat to those 81 million only 11 million of them actually use the app once a month so you Have a lot of people on your app, but it doesn't necessarily mean they're logging in and going on dates.

2 (22m 55s):
Okay, so this is how people meet but people are also dating less. We have more single people than ever before. What does that tell us people are using the apps but not finding what they're looking

1 (23m 6s):
for. Yeah. I think if you're looking for a lasting relationship you just are going to be creating a really different profile than someone who isn't and there actually are a lot of people who really do want to find and Long-term Partners. So this year tender released the information that the number one word that appears most frequently on all of their dating profiles across all of Tinder is the word real

2 (23m 33s):
real real

1 (23m 35s):
as I'm like I'm looking for a real relationship or I'm looking for someone who's like a real person who really wants to meet me

2 (23m 43s):
and Andrea. Have you have you met a real person yet?

1 (23m 47s):
You know over the years I got really good at online dating. So using my veto 10,000 hours of online dating I think is how I met my boyfriend.

2 (23m 58s):
Oh, there's a boyfriend. Mmm. Congratulations

1 (24m 1s):
Mazel. Thanks. We just celebrated for months. So it's early but I think his cats are about to meet my dog. Wow,

2 (24m 10s):
does this mean that after his cats meet your dog? Maybe you'll delete the league hinge bumbled. In their Riot J swipe coffee meets Bagel cores Lex Lo-Fi OkCupid and Scruff from your

1 (24m 23s):
phone. I don't think I can he really likes using my dating.

2 (24m 29s):
He likes using

1 (24m 30s):
up. Yeah, so Dan will grab my phone sometimes when he's bored and he'll open up hinge and just you know kind of Marvel at all of his competition and feel relieved that we met each other. They'll say, you know, like look at this guy ha ha

2 (24m 45s):
ha. Ah Happy Valentine's Day Andrea, so Lindsay

1 (24m 50s):
have you on times to you Sean. Do you have a valentine this year? Everyone wants to know

2 (24m 55s):
gotta go Andrea. Bye.