0 (0s):
What are your plans this weekend? She j Ping plans on becoming the most powerful person on planned earth

2 (9s):
This weekend in China. We'll have arguably the biggest political event in a decade, if not for longer.

0 (18s):
All the big wigs in the Chinese Communist Party are coming together in Beijing for the party Congress. It's where they pick new leadership.

2 (26s):
But this year is especially important because this year C Ping will be confirmed as ruler for at least another five years, if not for the rest of his life.

0 (37s):
And that hasn't happened since. Mal Sadam

2 (41s):
C Ping is now one of the most powerful, if not the most powerful man on earth when it comes to control over his own country. Or Susan Ping has a head start on basically any other leader out there.

0 (56s):
That's what's coming on today's plane today. Explain Sean Ram from here with the Washington Posts. China correspondent Christian Shepherd, who is currently based in Taipei and is gonna tell us Sij ping's origin story just in time for she to become maybe like, I don't know, Thanos.

2 (1m 19s):
Well, SIJ ping's entry into politics basically began at birth. So he is the son of two really important revolutionary figures in China. His father and his mother Tian, he's are both people who were at the party from very early days. They got married in a cave near Yann, which is the kind of revolutionary base where Maza Don was launching his counter attack on the, the ruling party at the time. And he grew up in Beijing, you know, very close to the halls of power in one of these compounds for the children of the, the party elites.

2 (2m 9s):
So he really was kind of born into this red heritage, but that wasn't always easy for him because being the son of a revolutionary and mouse China could mean that you fall out of favor. And that's exactly what happened to his father. C Jon. Jon had a fallout with Meldon to an extent, largely because he rose up to become the, the head of the propaganda department and allowed a publication of a book which was seen to be critical of mouse's version of history.

2 (2m 53s):
So in the early sixties, c Jon gets sent away, he gets basically put into exile and that leaves c to fend for himself. He doesn't get kicked out of school. So he's still in Beijing, he's still attending what is a school for, you know, the children of leaders, but he is no one who can really look after him anymore. You know, he's bullied, he has, you know, less access to resources than he would've otherwise had you have accounts of him going hungry. So it's a really tough time. And after that goes on for a few years, he has this kind of option to get out.

2 (3m 33s):
And the way he does that is he kind of signs up for this program, which probably would've been forced on in any way of going down to a small village in the northwest of the country to work as what was called a sent down youth

4 (3m 49s):
At 16. They're sent out to work and learn humility for five long years in the countryside. For even the brightest children, the long stretch of manual labor is the only route to university. The few who do make the return journey will have been chosen by their workmates.

2 (4m 8s):
So these are educated people from the cities who now thought had kind of become too removed from the circumstances of everyday China. So they went to learn from the local farmers to try and understand, you know, what the real China was like.

5 (4m 24s):
It is considered useful for leaders and cadres, especially to learn the class feeling of laborers and peasants in order to overcome bureaucracy and prevent revisionism.

2 (4m 33s):
And he's there for seven years and it's pretty hard work. He has to dig wells, he has to read by candlelight, but he seems to, you know, have a go of it. After a a tough period, he, he becomes quite friendly with the villages according to his own accounts and he begins to see the value of what he's doing. And so he, he begins to turn it into a self sacrificing narrative and that continues all the way until his father is rehabilitated and he is able to then return to Beijing and go to university.

0 (5m 7s):
So in this trying time where she is basically living in poverty, his parents have been ostracized. Does his faith even as a kid in the Chinese Communist party, falter?

2 (5m 24s):
Well, it's, it's hard to know how much he wrestled with this idea of loyalty to the party because most of what we rely on now are his own accounts of this time. He will talk about things like digging wells and, you know, doing manual labor at this time as being a kind of a, a cleansing experience. And you know, since he's got into power, he sometimes refers back to this period as why he's spent so much time focusing on alleviating poverty, which has been one of his main policy campaigns. So there was a way in which even though the party in some senses rejected him, he kind of turned back to the party and its overall mission as a way of trying to rehabilitate himself.

2 (6m 11s):
So the job he actually gets is as a very junior secretary to the Ministry of Defense. But then he kind of takes a left turn and he goes and gets a job in a small town not too far from Beijing, but not particularly rich. And that kind of shift, it seems to be a bit of a bet that he's gonna rise higher later on. Cuz if you stay in the military and he kind of stuck with his current path, he could never have become a top leader. He wouldn't have had that experience that you need kind of governing different parts of the country being a civilian leader.

2 (6m 53s):
So he kind of makes this shift where it seems like he already knows he wants to move up and do bigger things.

0 (7m 2s):
When do we start to see hints of his authoritarian tendencies?

2 (7m 8s):
Well, it's hard to say when they began or if they were always there, but in the kind of written record, think some of the first signs we have comes from when he moved to Fuji in southern China, the province across from Taiwan. And there he is a leader of a small town at the time when you have the 10 where protests, students everywhere are excited about the idea of China changing

6 (7m 50s):
Protestors stressed that they're not denouncing the communist party, but insisted they'll keep marching until officials agree in ongoing negotiations to more open local elections and to fair coverage of the protests in local media.

2 (8m 4s):
And so at this time, c Ping is dealing with the local offshoots of these protests.

7 (8m 11s):
Its is the time that the whole country fill the hope and then the promises by the government.

2 (8m 18s):
There are some students who want to come in from a neighboring province to sort of protest at the larger, you know, city nearby. And he prevents them from doing that. You know, a lot of people are arrested, it's hard to say how many Susan P was directly involved in, but certainly he would've to some extent managed the crackdown locally. He says that censorship is actually something that every country does, and to an extent it's a good thing. And so you really get this sense that even then, even when he was a lowly official and he didn't really have any stake in it, that he was out to defend the party center.

0 (9m 3s):
And is this how he goes from being a, a lowly official to a not so lowly official?

2 (9m 8s):
Right, exactly. So he proves himself a number of times. He seems to be pretty tough on corruption. He also is someone who does a reasonably good job of pushing China's market reforms involved in free trade zones being set up in Fuen. You know, he's someone who manages to start to meld the economic reform with quite a stern approach to any dissent. And so that model, which we now see kind of continuing to today, it sort of runs throughout his career.

0 (9m 47s):
And is there any sense when he enters office in 2012 that he could potentially be China's first ever president for life?

2 (9m 56s):
Well, one of the strange things about what has happened over the last decade is that when C came into power, a lot of outside observers thought he was probably gonna be a reformer. And one of the reasons they thought this is they, they looked at his father who seemed to be, you know, by standards of the time, a relative reformer. He had pushed economic reforms in Southern China and p and they looked at C'S own record. He had, you know, launched free trade zones and had encouraged private business. And they thought, okay, China's pretty open now. They just hosted the Summer Olympics. We just had this power transition that went pretty smoothly.

2 (10m 39s):
Maybe this is a time when things will change. But pretty soon afterwards Susan Ping showed everyone to be wrong

0 (10m 54s):
More with Christian in a minute on today, explained

8 (11m 9s):
This is advertiser content brought to you by AbbVie.

9 (11m 13s):
We're always trying to understand how do we stop disease, right? Disease comes in, we try to stop it. That's how we practice medicine. An interesting thought would be, what if we actually didn't get disease? What if we prevented disease? Hi, my name is Howard Jacob, I'm a vice president at AbbVie. I had the Genomic research center and I also had our data integration across r and d.

8 (11m 40s):
Better medicine starts with better information. So Howard and AbbVie have been studying a collection of more than 1 million human genomes to advance our understanding of disease.

9 (11m 50s):
It's a large amount of data. Your DNA extended end to end from all of your a hundred trillion cells would go to the sun and back 666.5 times.

8 (12m 1s):
All of that genetic information will have major implications for the future of healthcare. Helping doctors tailor treatment to every patient's needs.

9 (12m 9s):
For many genes, there are tests where you can actually say, Oh, this is the dose you should take, this is when you should take it, and this is why you're taking it. It opens the door for prescribing medications differently and at different doses for each individual,

8 (12m 23s):
Their work is already saving lives. But genetic researchers are far from satisfied.

9 (12m 28s):
I just know that we can do more. I know we can enable physicians to practice medicine better. I know we can enable patients to live healthier lives. I know we can develop better therapies and we just have to do it.

8 (12m 40s):
To learn more about how AbbVie is shaping the future of medicine, visit here now.abb v i e.

10 (12m 48s):
Hey, it's Shawn Link, host of the gray area. We

11 (12m 51s):
Have noticed all one whipping up the

10 (12m 53s):
Hatred. Our world is full of takes because

12 (12m 56s):
Of the high gas prices.

10 (12m 57s):
You need more and lots and lots of noise.

13 (12m 60s):
All the dumb people decided one day like pronouns are bad.

10 (13m 4s):
But things are rarely that simple. It's not that the truth is in the middle, it's that we're all living in a very uncertain world and there are more questions than answers.

8 (13m 14s):
I think it's important to acknowledge that we live in a pluralistic society where norms and visions and values of what is most important will never be reconciled totally among us.

14 (13m 27s):
Part of this problem of polarization is that people feel safe talking about ever fewer things.

10 (13m 33s):
Do you think our relationships could remain intact if we were totally transparent about everything? I think it would lead to some bumpiness. That's one way to put it. Embrace the bumpiness and join me, Shawn Aing, host of the gray area each Monday and Thursday for conversations about culture, politics, and the good life.

2 (13m 55s):
She,

1 (14m 1s):
She's so lovely. Shea.

0 (14m 4s):
Okay, today explained, still here with Christian Shepherd from the Washington Post, talking about who could be the most powerful person in the world. She j Ping, he's brought in, in 2012, People think he's gonna be some sort of liberal reformer and and Christian, he proves them wrong.

2 (14m 24s):
That's right. Almost immediately he launches this huge anti-corruption campaign and he goes after not just kind of low level corruption, but some of the top people in the party. In fact, one of the most senior person who has ever been taken down falls within sea's first couple of years in office, the former head of public security, Joon Kong, at a secret

15 (14m 51s):
Trial in northeast China. So convicted for bribery, abuse of power and leaking national

2 (14m 57s):
Secrets. And then in pretty short order, he cracks down on civil society. He begins this series of political reforms trying to forcing people to start memorizing more kind of party jargon and slogans, these study sessions. And in 2016, he's designated the core leader of the party, which is a title that hasn't existed for about two decades.

0 (15m 27s):
Is it that kind of consolidation of power that allows him to clamp down on the uighur population? In China

2 (15m 34s):
It's part of it, but for season ping, really stability and unity are just absolutely key in syn. There have been a series of violent incidents.

16 (15m 49s):
First it was a deadly explosion at this train station. Then as Salan slashed at arriving passengers with knives,

2 (15m 57s):
There have been calls for kind of greater autonomy. And he's kind of worried that this is gonna start fracturing, start spiraling

16 (16m 5s):
Soon after China's official broadcaster, quoting the president, blame the country separatists. Yes.

18 (16m 12s):
Issues. We must recognize the long term complex and acute nature of the struggle between separatism and antis. Separatism in sinja,

2 (16m 20s):
It could be something that could spread to other regions in a Mongolia to bet obviously has always been a deep concern for the party. So he kind of comes in and says, you know enough with this, we cannot accept this dissent and brands it as extremism and launches, you know, reeducation campaign in cin.

0 (16m 44s):
Yeah, When exactly is it that the world comes to know? She is not just a very powerful dude, but a human rights violator.

2 (16m 53s):
It starts probably around 2015 when there's a mass crackdown on human rights. Lawyers

17 (17m 2s):
Well have

2 (17m 4s):
Hundreds of people overnight are detained, arrested many of them later end up with lengthy prison sentences.

19 (17m 12s):
China put its state police on display as the show trial of its best known human rights lawyer got underway inside Beijing. Number two, intermediate people's

2 (17m 21s):
Court. And then after that, you just start to see that this isn't a one, this is a trend. We have the, the crackdown in Sinong.

20 (17m 30s):
Any we were family. You can ask, have someone in the camp right now, maybe whole family,

2 (17m 37s):
The crackdown in Hong Kong this

17 (17m 39s):
Morning. Thousands of protestors on Hong Kong streets clashing with riot police barriers, torn down rubber bullets and tear gas fired into the chaos.

2 (17m 48s):
It's very clear that C is determined as much as possible not to let any of these grassroots movements, whether it's right activism or distinct ethnic identity from challenging his grip on power.

0 (18m 9s):
And this essentially works, right? Nothing really stops him because in 2018, despite human rights abuses and and consolidating power, China ends term limits setting. She up to do what he's doing right now to become present for life, to extend his terms more than anyone has before

2 (18m 28s):
Him. Season Ping has done a pretty good job of building up a base of legitimacy. So he has anti-corruption campaign, which helping to gather power that dealt with a lot of the kind of petty corruption that was really impacting people's lives on an everyday basis. He also had a huge push to deal with extreme poverty, which was declared successful. He's kind of made China look strong on a global stage. He's not shied away from conflicts with the US or other countries. I mean, nationalism is a great way of building your support in, in any country. We

21 (19m 6s):
Can't continue to allow China to rape our country. And that's what they're doing.

2 (19m 12s):
You know, he's a real populous leader. And so yes, I think people are concerned, but they don't necessarily think that he's doing a bad job

0 (19m 22s):
Until the global pandemic Covid 19.

2 (19m 27s):
At the start of 2020, it looked like it was a big, big issue. C kind of disappeared for a while, and then he reappears and imposes, you know, the strictest lockdown that at the time, you have to remember, this wasn't something that had happened globally that you know had ever been done before. This was a huge, huge thing. People also started to ask questions about whether or not seas mode of governance, where so much decision making power was in his own hands, had slowed down the response, you know, the local officials weren't acting fast enough, so it really seemed like it was going to undermine his power, or at least be a black mark.

2 (20m 10s):
But pretty quickly China turns things around. And that's one of the kind of amazing things about what Sue's been able to do as a leader, is he was able to build this narrative of, Look, we have a model that works. Yes, people made sacrifices, but ultimately those sacrifices allowed us to achieve zero covid. So for for many, many months, China was having basically no cases on a day to day basis. And at the same time, the rest of the world, as we all know, was struggling with, you know, huge outbreaks. So she was able to flip the narrative and to say, Look, we have a system that works.

2 (20m 51s):
And yes, maybe it stumbles occasionally, but we get it back on track

0 (20m 55s):
As she enters his third term. As he becomes maybe the most powerful leader in the world and certainly the most powerful leader in China. Since Maung in earnest, how much does his version of, you know, consolidated power look like? The last time China saw it in Ma Zung?

2 (21m 21s):
There are some similarities, and I think bigger differences. Soong was really a revolutionary leader. He came to power through political infighting and then a civil war. He then tried to keep power with these really kind of drastic steps, including launching the culture revolution, which kind of handed power over to the people in a way that CJ Ping would just never do. So she is much more cautious. His power has been built by centralizing the institutions of control that the party has had for a long time and making sure that he has firm hold of the levers of power.

2 (22m 11s):
So he is kind of working within the system, building it around himself, whereas Mal would go around it on a fairly regular basis. But in some ways they are similar because I think in the collective memory of the party, in the way that it talks about itself, Season Ping is trying to kind of continue where Mal left off. So Mal founded the nation and now Season Ping is trying to make it great again. And so he has this phrase where China has stood up, which was what Mal said, and then it got rich, which is what Dun Ping made happen with reform.

2 (22m 54s):
And now it's getting strong. And that's the kind of new era that Season Ping is trying to take charge of so that he can have a legacy which is on par with Mals.

0 (23m 7s):
You know, this idea that he might be now the most powerful person in the world goes hand in hand with wanting to change the world. What do you think she wants to do internationally with all of his power?

2 (23m 22s):
Well, I think the key thing he wants to do is return China to a position of being one of, if not the strongest nations on earth and being kind of entirely safe from any form of disruption to its hold on that position.

22 (23m 47s):
At the same time, the Chinese people will never allow any foreign forces to bully, oppress or enslaves. Anyone who dares to try to do that will have their heads bashed, blooded against the Great Wall of steel forged by over 1.4 billion Chinese people.

2 (24m 6s):
You know, they talk a lot in China in the history books about a century of humiliation when China was invaded and you had the opium wars and you had this great downfall, but then the Communist Party came and put the nation back on track. And now we are bringing about this great rejuvenation,

23 (24m 28s):
The unmistakable hallmarks of Communist party rule. Were front and center of its celebrations, the total control, the omnipotent leader, the unquestioning loyalty,

24 (24m 45s):
Your,

2 (24m 46s):
And so to make that happen, Susan Ping needs a world where the model, the political model he's creating is not just accepted, but kind of believed in globally by a number of partners. You know, you see the partnership with Russia, you see them building various relationships across the global south. So I think it's, it's really trying to create a version of the global order where it's okay to be an authoritarian leader, like Season Ping

0 (25m 28s):
Christian Shepherd. You can read him at the Washington Post. Our show today was produced by Halima Shaw. It was edited by Matthew Colette and engineered by Paul Robert Mosey. Laura Bullard fact checked, and we had help from Fiona Petros, Aha Artsy, Heidi Maudi and Jillian Weinberger. It's today explained.