3 (8s):
There's this sort of random guy who's playing a critical role in the 2020 election and you've probably never even heard of him lucky for you. McKay coppins just wrote about Brad parce qu'elle for the

1 (20s):
Atlantic Brad parce qu'elle is this six foot eight guy? He's got a shaved head triangular beard and he had basically no political experience before

3 (31s):
2015.

1 (36s):
He likes to tell the story of his Ascent as this kind of rags to riches story. You know, he talks about how he grew up a farm boy from Kansas when in fact he grew up in Suburban Topeka and his dad was kind of an affluent attorney. He says that he graduated from an Ivy League school. He was actually Trinity University in San Antonio, but basically what happened is after college he went to work for his parents software company. In California and the company failed and after that whole episode he ended up back in San Antonio. He says he was broke and desperate and had $500 to his name

3 (1m 17s):
and I've spent 15 years building a company that I started with just 500 dollars.

1 (1m 21s):
In fact, he had several rental properties that he also owned but he used it to start this web design business in Texas and he was kind of from very early on the kind of a hustler like he tells stories about how he would Go to Borders bookstore and just cold pitch people and The Tech Guy loved the bookstore trying to get them to hire him to build websites for them and sort of on the strength of his hustle and his kind of fast-talking abilities. He was able to build this business into something real he built websites for you know, gun shops and plumbers and things like that and eventually started to attract bigger clients including in 2011 the Trump organization.

3 (2m 6s):
Jared and Ivanka first hired you right Donald Trump organization Anka and Eric Trump hired the for the Real Estate website. Okay, and once I got the Real Estate website, then I started to work my way through the Trump. So have you how closely connected with the family? Have you been I think at this point I have a very good relationship with

1 (2m 23s):
them, but the only reason he got this job was because he offered to do it for kind of an insanely low price and over the next several years. He designed websites for like Trump Winery Melania Trump skincare line and then in 2015. He was asked to build a very simple web page for a trump presidential campaign, which everyone at that time figured was sort of a publicity stunt or would never actually get off the ground but one thing led to another and he ends up basically running Donald Trump's front-running presidential campaigns digital operation from his personal

3 (3m 4s):
laptop. And

1 (3m 8s):
now I should say at the beginning of the Trump campaign parse. Cal's kind of most valued contribution early on was designing a merchandise page for the Trump campaign website that sold Maga hats and now, you know, that's kind of as advanced as the Trump campaign God but what happened was after Trump became the nominee, they looked around and realized that they were not going to catch up to the Clinton campaign and fundraising. Crucially, they weren't going to be able to compete on TV which traditionally was how campaigns believed elections were won buying up as much local ad time as you could in the swing state markets and kind of blanketing the airwaves with your message when the Trump campaign realized that they couldn't compete that way Brad parce qu'elle sort of stepped in and said, hey, why don't we just go all in on Facebook and

3 (4m 2s):
Google?

1 (4m 6s):
From June to November of 2016 Trump's campaign ran 5.9 million ads on Facebook. Whereas Clinton's just ran 66,000 and this was seen as incredibly effective. In fact, a Facebook executive later wrote in a memo that leaked to the public that Trump got elected because he ran the single best digital ad campaign I've ever seen from any Advertiser and that was all Brad parse gals

3 (4m 34s):
doing

1 (4m 38s):
Central to the Trump campaigns digital advertising was the use of micro targeting which in effect was taking the electorate slicing it up into very specific very small very distinct niches and then tailoring digital ads that would appeal to them for various reasons. So one example, if the Trump campaign wanted to run an ad that called for the defunding of Planned Parenthood in past eras, you would have to put that in a campaign commercial and put it on TV and all kinds of different people are going to see it. Some people are going to like it. Some people are going to hate it. What you can do with micro-targeting is you can create that ad and then serve it directly via Facebook to 800 pro-life Roman Catholic women in Dubuque, Iowa.

1 (5m 27s):
I should say micro-targeting wasn't invented by parse Cal or the Trump campaign the Obama campaign famously used it in 2012. Hillary Clinton's campaign used it a little bit but the difference was that the Trump campaign both used it at a much larger scale than past campaigns and also did things with micro-targeting that pushed boundaries that other presidential campaigns probably weren't willing to do for example toward the end of the 2016 race in the final weeks of the race the Trump campaign started serving ads directly to Black. There is in Florida that said Hillary Clinton thinks African-Americans are super Predators.

1 (6m 11s):
They weren't trying to win black voters over to Trump. They were basically just trying to depress black turnout. In fact, there was a trump campaign official quoted at the time saying that this was one of three major voter suppression operations underway. By the way, we only know about that specific example because they decided to boast about it on background to a reporter for the vast majority of the ads that they ran. We don't know who exactly they were served to what exactly the content was and what effect it had on the

3 (6m 44s):
electorate.

1 (6m 48s):
So after the election stories start to appear in the media hailing parse Cal as a genius and Trump secret weapon and he kind of becomes the face of trump surprise

3 (7m 2s):
Victory an Insider's take now on how mr. Trump actually won The Man Behind the digital operation now credited with helping find and turn out the voters who made the difference Brad parse Cal

1 (7m 14s):
and so in 2008, In when Trump decided to start Staffing up his re-election campaign

3 (7m 21s):
today. We learn who's going to take the Helm of his re-election bid is 2016 digital director Brad parse. Cal was named as campaign

1 (7m 29s):
manager. It's interesting. I've talked to people who have known him now for many years and they do say that he started to change after that 2016 election. He goes to rallies and gives speeches to the Roaring crowds throws out man.

3 (7m 46s):
Aha, that's because what do we want four more years, right? How do we say that four more years?

1 (7m 58s):
So he is kind of becoming a political celebrity in his own right but his genius is continuing to give all the credit to Trump and maintaining close relationships with the Trump family in particular Jared Kushner and Ivanka who he continues to kind of talk to on a regular basis.

3 (8m 16s):
Okay. So in 2016 Brad was responsible for 5.9 million Facebook ads and his campaign was

1 (8m 24s):
called the best digital ad campaign.

3 (8m 28s):
The world has ever seen from any Advertiser on Facebook.

1 (8m 32s):
What should we expect this time? The campaign this time is going to be, you know, ten times more sophisticated and better funded than the last one Brad parce qu'elle has said that the Trump campaign plans to spend a billion dollars on this years. Action, which would make it the most expensive presidential campaign in history and the digital tactics are Central to the entire operation. It's how they get their message out. It's how they fundraise. It's how they distract or overwhelm the media narratives that are unhelpful to them. And there's kind of an array of new technological strategies and platforms that are making them even more dependent.

1 (9m 16s):
Anton this stuff to win the 2020 election

3 (9m 23s):
after the break McKay builds a fake Facebook profile to experience President Trump's 2020 digital strategy for himself. It's today explained. I to travel from California back to Washington DC this week via airplane and I got to the airport with not a ton of extra time and there was a very long line and then there was a shorter line for people who have clear and I thought well I do those ads for clear now and that does look pretty good.

3 (10m 5s):
But I do feel possessive about my fingerprints in my eyeballs. If you do not I would highly recommend that you get clear clear wants to make your life simpler and Safer and more secure by getting you through security at airports and stadiums and other venues faster clear replaces the need for physical ID cards a driver's license or passport and uses as I said your fingerprints and your eyes to verify that you are you so you can get through security easily. You can create your account online before heading to the airport at once you get there a clear Ambassador will help you finish up and right now listeners of the show can get their first two months of clear for free by going to To clear me dot coms explained and use the code explained.

3 (10m 48s):
Again. That's CL EA rme.com explained use the code explained for your free two months of clear this ad is for people who are buying domains running websites. It's a little jargony just as a heads up, but here we go. Name.com is by experts for experts and that's why this adds going to sound like it's for experts with features like DNS templates Bulk Management actions extra security features and a brand new API name.com is the best place to manage your website projects name.com offers.com domains for just eight ninety nine and four 825 you can transfer in your existing.com domains new users get free privacy protection and security features just for signing up so name.com right now use the code explained at checkout to get 50% off G sweet accounts for a full year name.com and use expl a iined at checkout.

3 (12m 14s):
Okay, you spent a ton of time for the Atlantic investigating these campaign tactics the Trump Administration used in 2016 and is now using again already in 2020. What made you want to write about this?

1 (12m 26s):
I kept encountering people who seemed to truly believe demonstrable e false things about political news or the impeachment proceedings or any number of other issues. And so I wanted to know What was happening inside this kind of alternative information ecosystem that Trump and his allies have created on the right. So I decided to try to experience it from

3 (12m 54s):
inside.

1 (12m 58s):
So basically last fall around the time the impeachment inquiry was launching. I sat down and created a Facebook account that was separate from the normal one that I used. I you know chose a new name. And took a profile picture that kind of obscured my

3 (13m 13s):
face. What was the name? You chose? Was it peered alecto?

1 (13m 21s):
It was a lot more boring than PR2 liked it. I think it was something like Greg Anderson or something like that. Nice very generic, you know for a forgettable white guy named that was the that's for did you use your real photo or was it a fake photo? Actually, no one's a no one's asked me about this. Remarkably. I had a red Maga hat from the 2016 campaign and I literally We put it on and raised the like phone above my head so you could only see the hat and not my face and that was about my profile pic. And that's probably all you need to know dude question. As long as you wear

3 (14m 1s):
that hat, right?

1 (14m 2s):
Yeah that my sense was that could because part of this was I wanted to join a bunch of private Facebook groups for kind of trump superfans and I figured I'd have a better chance of getting accepted if I add a red-capped profile pic, which seemed to work.

3 (14m 18s):
Did you go create like a fake set of interests where you liking like, you know Ted Nugent and and I

1 (14m 24s):
don't know. Jon Voight fan pages. I basically follow the suggestions that Facebook gave me. So I followed Ann Coulter Fox Business bunch of trump fan pages with names like in Trump We Trust so that I could as organically as possible create the experience that an average Trump fan who logs onto Facebook and creates an account would have

3 (14m 52s):
It sounds almost too easy and yet you were like seemingly the first person to try do this for an investigative piece.

1 (14m 57s):
So where does this fake account take you at the time I kind of thought that it wouldn't really yield that much fruit for my story. I basically figured it would be a good way to kind of keep tabs on the content that the Trump campaign was putting out the spin they were using because I felt like I had a pretty good sense of what the Trump White House is messaging was around you. Ukraine and impeachment and and all the other issues that they talked about but what happened instead was actually sort of alarming to

3 (15m 29s):
me.

1 (15m 34s):
I would check this Trump if I'd Facebook feed several times a day and there were times literally where I would sit down and watch one of the impeachment hearings in the house live on TV and I would kind of come to my own conclusions about the testimony that was presented and then I would look at my phone later in the day and find for example a video that the Trump campaign had sort of slickly put together that took out-of-context clip. Oops from the same hearing that I had watched but recast it as kind of an exoneration for Trump or or a Triumph for the president and I literally found myself wondering sometimes like wait a second did I misunderstand?

1 (16m 16s):
What happened is that what actually happened today and over time like day after day week after week of being exposed to this kind of stream of pro-trump propaganda. It started to take a toll on me it you know I had to And because I was doing this as a journalistic exercise and because I was inherently skeptical about all this and because frankly I have a pretty high media literacy rate. This is my job that I would wouldn't be taken in by kind of these distortions or lies or you know disinformation, but what I found instead was that because I was so suspicious of what I was seeing. I started to become reflexively cynical about every headline that I saw even if it came from like the Washington Post or the New York Times, it wasn't so much that I believed the president and his allies were, you know telling the truth?

1 (17m 9s):
It was more that it felt like, you know truth itself about all these issues was harder and harder to

3 (17m 17s):
locate what you're talking about here is like the persuasive nature of fake news, right? This is something Steve Bannon has talked about he wants to flood the Zone with shit right so that we can no longer tell. What is real and what is fake

1 (17m 34s):
but this is the key. It's not really designed to be persuasive. Like it's not designed to convince everybody who sees it that it's true. It's just designed to disorient you or confuse you or so just enough doubt that you're not sure exactly. What's true. And what's not and the calculation is that most people in those conditions will sort of throw up their hands and say, who knows what's real I've My own life to worry about I've got my job. I've got my kids, you know, I'm just gonna disengage and you know go watch

3 (18m 8s):
TV and this isn't just through micro targeted Facebook ads, right? The campaign has other

1 (18m 15s):
strategies. Yeah, the micro-targeted Facebook campaigns have proved effective, but you also have mass texting, you know, Twitter Bots and basically every platform that you can consume content. President Trump is campaign and kind of the vast Coalition of allies is they're sort of making noise and trying to disorient and

3 (18m 39s):
distract how of the different social media platforms Facebook Twitter, even the Google products how have they decided to either let this information flow freely or to police

1 (18m 53s):
it the various platforms have basically taken somewhat different approaches, but I think it's safe to say that all of them are comfortable with with a good deal of disinformation on their platforms. So, you know Twitter for example announced that they're not going to take political advertising this

3 (19m 11s):
cycle it CEO Jack Dorsey tweeted yesterday while Internet advertising is incredibly powerful and very effective for commercial advertisers that power brings significant risk to politics. Where can be used to influence votes to affect the lives of

1 (19m 24s):
millions. Facebook has been kind of interesting because after 2016, they were sort of Excoriated for allowing fake news and disinformation to spread on their platforms. So freely and Mark Zuckerberg promised to do better and he rolled out a bunch of reforms but last fall he announced that political candidates would continue to be allowed to run false ads on Facebook, which I should note makes them different than commercial advertisers if you're a company and you want to place an ad on Facebook You're subject to fact-checking. You're not allowed to make obviously false claims about your product.

1 (20m 6s):
You'll be punished your ad will be pulled from

3 (20m 10s):
Facebook. Do you see a potential problem here with a complete lack of fact checking on political

1 (20m 15s):
advertisements? Well congresswoman I think lying is bad and I think if you were to run an ad that had a lie, that would be

3 (20m 21s):
bad. So you won't take down lies or you will take down lies. I think it's just a pretty simple yes or no. I believe that people should be able to see for

1 (20m 29s):
themselves. What? Petitions that they may or may not vote for or you won't take them down.

3 (20m 35s):
So you won't take you may flag that it's wrong but you won't take it down congresswoman. It's it

1 (20m 42s):
depends on the context that it shows up organic post ads that the treatment is I think it's safe to say though that this is a subject of enormous debate inside these platforms like there is not a consensus view on how to approach this issue and to some extent I kind of understand. Where they're coming from I mean, I don't really like the idea of a bunch of Silicon Valley Executives being the final word on what political speech is allowed on their platforms, especially as these platforms become the de facto public squares in American life.

3 (21m 18s):
So I guess the million dollar question or in this case vet. Definitely the

1 (21m 22s):
billion-dollar question is what

3 (21m 24s):
do Democrats do if Trump is going to run this campaign based on Extreme falsehoods and be extremely effective in micro targeting people in texting people in flooding The Zone with shit to the point where people don't want to even hear about politics and don't even go out to vote. What do Democrats do do they have to play the same game by the same

1 (21m 47s):
rules. Well, this is a subject of open debate among Democratic strategists right. Now. The one thing there is consensus on is the idea that Democrats have to invest much more heavily in there. The digital architecture that if they're going to compete they need to be able to be as well funded and as technologically sophisticated as the Trump campaign to get their message out but there are a number of democratic strategists who go a lot further and basically say that in order to beat Trump, they're going to have to co-opt some of his tactics and that means pushing out conspiracy theories and disinformation and trying to suppress turnout among Trump voters.

3 (22m 31s):
Yes.

1 (22m 35s):
There's one guy named Dmitri Mel horn who's a democratic consultant sort of Infamous for experimenting with digital dirty tricks. So for example during the Alabama special election in 2017, Mel horn had a group that funded two different false flag operations against the Republican Senate candidate Roy Moore, you know for one scheme. There were a bunch of faux Russian Twitter Bots sent to fall. Follow Moore's account to make it look like Russia was backing him. There was another effort where they created a fake social media campaign called dry Alabama that was designed to make it look like more was being supported by fictional Baptists who wanted to ban alcohol in this state.

1 (23m 22s):
And so these were relatively small scale efforts. It's not clear that they really had much effect in that race, but Mel horn and some people like him basically A we have to fight fire with fire in order to beat Trump or else we're going to lose this

3 (23m 38s):
election. And where does that leave our democracy?

1 (23m 43s):
I think the problems were encountering right now with disinformation and censorship through noise will extend well beyond this election cycle regardless of who wins if we end up in a place where both major parties in the United States believe that the only way to win is to essentially warp our information ecosystem to the point where nobody knows what's true. And what's not then that has profound. Sound repercussions for the health of our democracy and it will be bad for everyone in the long run. We're not the first country where this has happened. There are countries where on any given day the average person goes through life reads.

1 (24m 26s):
The internet sees the news has no idea. What's true and what's not has no idea whether any of it is real or if it's all propaganda and that is ultimately a victory for the people in power who do this stuff. If they don't need you to believe them they just need you to be confused and to give up and I think that if that's where we end up as a country, that's a really dangerous

3 (24m 51s):
situation. McKay coppins is a staff writer for the Atlantic his piece the billion-dollar disinformation campaign to re-elect the president appears in the March issue of the magazine. We reached out to Brad parse Cal through his website Brad didn't write back but a guy named Tim murtagh. Did Tim turns out is the director of communications for President Trump's re-election. Pain, and I'm just gonna read what he said about McKay's Atlantic piece word-for-word. The story itself is disinformation.

3 (25m 31s):
They wrote eight thousand words trying to paint a scary picture but couldn't come up with one specific example to back up their premise. It's nothing more than a stream of Consciousness fever dream from liberals already making excuses for an election loss. They see coming eight months away. That's where we left it with Tim for the record. I've read McKay's piece and it has examples as does today's episode. I'm Sean Rama's firm. This is today explained is Greg Anderson still on

1 (26m 6s):
Facebook. I deleted the account right before the story was published because I was paranoid about the private groups that I had joined. So the answer is no it's the he's here. He's in Facebook heaven. Now. There's only Facebook. Hell, yeah, that's that's probably right. I think that theologically that makes sense to me.