0 (0s):
So here's the truth. In this particular neighborhood in Philadelphia, the the crime is, is low. But that was actually the entire point. What we really pitched to Neighbors is that this is when you get involved. You get involved now to get out ahead of the crime.

1 (17s):
Joe Dane of Society Hill in PA is not just referring to Neighborhood Watch. His neighborhood hired a private security firm to protect them from that low crime. Joe had seen the problems compound elsewhere.

0 (29s):
I lived right next to Beverly Hills where there are now not only 10 cities, there are open air drug markets, there is elevated crime. you know, I had a very similar thought process that this was not gonna happen in my neighborhood.

1 (42s):
As of today, the third biggest private employer of people in North America is a private security company called Allied. And ahead on today explained, we're gonna trace the explosive rise of the private security sector.

3 (59s):
Hello, I'm Esther Perel. I'm a psychotherapist and host of the podcast. Where should we begin? I invite you to enter into my office and to listen in on the sessions that I conduct with people from all walks of life, grappling with the challenges and choices in their relationships. I'll be dropping new episodes every Monday starting July 10, listen and follow. Where should we begin on your favorite podcast app?

4 (1m 30s):
Why does it feel like everyone is on tour this summer and why are tickets so expensive? So

5 (1m 35s):
The first show I am on the onstage risers.

4 (1m 38s):
You can do that. Yes. I thought it was just friends and Beyonce. No,

5 (1m 41s):
No, no, no. Those tickets you got, what are

4 (1m 43s):
They called?

5 (1m 44s):
They're called the onstage v i p risers.

4 (1m 47s):
How much does that cost?

5 (1m 48s):
$4,000 for one. For one ticket. How do

4 (1m 51s):
You feel about

5 (1m 51s):
That? I'm okay with that. Are you okay with that? I, well, okay. So

4 (1m 55s):
We enroll in the Economics of the Summer tour and why it's broken. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast,

1 (2m 13s):
I'm Noel King. Alana Semuels is an investigative reporter for Time Magazine. She was working on a story recently when she came across a press release from a private security company called Allied Universal. With what? To her trained eye was kind of a staggering statistic.

6 (2m 30s):
They had a press release saying that they were the third biggest employer in North America, which really just surprised me just because you don't think about private security as some giant company like Walmart or Amazon. And I hadn't really seen that many private security officers or people you know, in my daily life. So it seemed like this was kind of happening under the radar. But the more I started looking into it, the more I realized that this is a booming industry. It's booming as police departments are having a lot of trouble recruiting and retaining staff. And so I think we're really witnessing a sea change in the accountability of who patrols our public spaces. In the us you know, you have police departments which have had some problems in recent years, but they're still ostensibly accountable to the public.

6 (3m 15s):
They have to go to meetings and the public can ask them questions and see what's going on, kind of behind closed doors. Private security does not have the same obligations. These are private companies whose first priority is to their shareholders and is to make a profit. And we don't really know what's going on behind the scenes at the private security companies. And I think that's really different from the way we've thought about who governs us and who patrols public and private spaces in America.

1 (3m 48s):
How big is the private security industry?

6 (3m 50s):
It's pretty big. And the US Allied has about 300,000 employees. They have about 800,000 globally and If. you look at just the number of security officers per citizens, basically there are three security guards for every a thousand people in the us but they're only about two cops for every a thousand people. And this is an industry that's just really boomed in the last couple decades. So in the last 20 years, the number of security officers has doubled in the us. I have to say, once I started writing about this, I started seeing them everywhere. Huh. I mean you see them in the grocery store, you see them in the airport, you see them driving around nice neighborhoods or at the gates of gated neighborhoods.

6 (4m 30s):
You see them in a lot of businesses just kinda hanging out. But a lot of it is these private companies or neighborhood associations who decide they want a little bit extra safety.

7 (4m 42s):
In some Chicago neighborhoods, it is safety at any cost. The demand for private security grows in the, this city and suburbs. Some business executives are now even requesting armed security to take them to and from Chicago for meetings.

1 (4m 56s):
Okay. So private companies and neighborhood associations decide they want more safety and, and that's the entirety of the hiring.

6 (5m 3s):
They're actually also a lot of governments that hire private security. You'll see a lot of them on public transit. The

5 (5m 9s):
President of New York City Transit says the guards do more than just help the MTA a recoup money. They improve the system's image and make it feel safer.

6 (5m 19s):
And sometimes you'll see governments like for instance in Beverly Hills, California, they'll just hire security in addition to the police because they maybe don't have enough police officers or they just want the technology that private security companies can can bring them.

8 (5m 34s):
The city is still contracting with two private security companies, as many as 80 armed guards who've been supplementing police since the summer of 2020.

1 (5m 43s):
What can private security guards do? Can they do exactly what police do? It

6 (5m 48s):
Depends on the state, but yes, in a lot of states they can do basically what police do. That

1 (5m 54s):
Is really wild. And so in order to be on the police force in, you know, a city or a town you have to go through usually police academy do private security guards have the same kind of of training.

6 (6m 6s):
Most of the time they don't. A lot of times companies see this as kind of a service industry job like McDonald's or Walmart. They're hiring the same people and they wanna hire them pretty quickly because there's so much demand. So they just kind of get them, you know, in the door. One guy told me it was kind of like a test at the D M V,

9 (6m 23s):
This is what you should do. You go there or whatever security company you wanna go to, you go to the security company, you apply, you get, you get the job. you

6 (6m 30s):
Know you have to pass a test in some states to get your guard card as they call it. But you can take the test as many times as you want and you know, no, there's no penalty for taking it five or six times.

9 (6m 41s):
They gonna have you take a test for the letter two security guard. It's like a test. It's real easy to pass, bro. you know, they're probably gonna let you study for it. They should let you study for it. Everybody passes that test. You feel me?

6 (6m 53s):
It's a little different. If you're carrying a weapon, you do need a little bit more training in almost all states, but not all. So

1 (6m 59s):
Private security guards are allowed to act like police officers. How common is it that they actually do?

6 (7m 5s):
Well, usually they're supposed to just observe and report. So they're kind of standing there and they, they see a crime happening, they're supposed to just call the police. But you have a lot of people that don't do that, whether it's because they feel pressured from their employer to act or just because they don't wanna see someone stealing something. You've had a few instances in New York in San Francisco where these private security guards actually assaulted the people that they could thought were shoplifting in San Francisco. The guy actually killed the person who was shoplifting the

10 (7m 37s):
District attorney announcing the Walgreen security guard who pulled the trigger will not face criminal charges. Finding the guard acted in lawful self-defense.

6 (7m 46s):
So it can get very dangerous for both civilians and of course for the guards themselves

1 (7m 51s):
Are these well paying jobs.

6 (7m 53s):
So the medium wage for security guard is about $17 an hour. There are exceptions. There are some companies that hire ex-cop or ex-military and they pay a lot better, but it's usually not that high of a wage because companies are just hiring someone to kind of observe and report. This isn't someone that's gonna make money for them, right? It's just someone who's basically standing outside their business, deterring people from stealing things. So it's not like they're in sales or you know, some department that's gonna bring in revenue.

1 (8m 20s):
We hear a lot of the time that the US now essentially has a service economy, right? These are the sectors of our economy that are growing s the service sectors. And I can imagine this being characterized as a service, right?

6 (8m 34s):
Yeah, I think it definitely is a service.

1 (8m 36s):
What is driving the growth of it?

6 (8m 39s):
I mean, I think first of all you have nine 11 and you have people feeling unsafe and that's when the industry really started booming. But you know, it's this kind of steady growth until the pandemic. Then the pandemic hits and you know, people go home. There are a lot of empty buildings. So you have companies hiring people to patrol these empty buildings and then you have the murder of George Floyd and a lot of backlash against police. Then you have police not be able to recruit and retain people

11 (9m 3s):
From big cities to small towns. Law enforcement agencies across the country are in a bidding war for new officers. As many lifelong first responders leave the profession in droves.

6 (9m 12s):
They're just a lot of people leaving police departments. It's

11 (9m 16s):
Leading to significant shortages impacting cities that are already dealing with increases in violent crime.

6 (9m 21s):
So you have this law enforcement crisis where they don't have enough people and then you have this narrative that's really going on across the country that crime is booming. you know, that's not really true. There's some crime stats that show that shoplifting or certain robbery is up, but then other other things are down and it really depends on the place. But you have this narrative that crime is out of control.

12 (9m 44s):
This video has been seen more than 300,000 times. A woman leaving a high-end retailer with an arm full of clothes and getting away in a waiting car.

6 (9m 54s):
And so you have businesses and neighborhoods looking around and saying, crime is outta control and the police aren't gonna come if we call them. And so we're gonna hire private security. And so part of it is, you know, the, the police can't come as quickly as they used to for things like, you know, someone broke into my house but now they're gone. But some of it is just kind of this fear of quality of life. Things like, you know, homelessness is definitely up and people don't like that and there may be a few more car break-ins and that makes people fearful. And so they want to feel protected and if they don't feel protected from the police, they're gonna turn to private security and hope that that can do something.

0 (10m 37s):
We needed extra eyes and ears on the ground after hours. Here are some uniform guards walking this neighborhood, taking pictures, you know, have their walkies and the visual deterrent alone is so impactful and we've seen a drop in just certain type of element kind of hanging around the neighborhood.

6 (11m 2s):
I sometimes think of it as a scarecrow, you know, it's someone who's just kind of gonna stand there and scare the birds away. But once the birds realize there's a scarecrow and they're not gonna do anything, then they're gonna, you know, keep doing what they're gonna do in the first place. If, you go on TikTok or Twitter, You can find all these videos of security guards just standing there while these retail crime rings go in and just sweep things off the shelves.

13 (11m 27s):
Excuse me, did he pay for all that? All that ice cream he just walked out with you? You don't know, you don't care.

6 (11m 35s):
You know, on the one hand you don't really want them to do anything cuz that probably leads to more violence. But then you kind of wonder what is the point of these security guards who can't do anything except call the police who can't really come

2 (11m 53s):
Coming

1 (11m 53s):
Up next time. Magazine's Alana. Semuels asked people who worked at Allied Universal if they liked their jobs.

14 (12m 20s):
I'm Naza and I produce and I'm on the podcast on with Kara Swisher. Last week Kara and I went out to Martha Stewart's house and it was, well just have a listen. It's great. Let's set the scene a little bit.

15 (12m 32s):
Okay. The scene is we come in, we get taken in another vehicle throughout the estate. There's chickens, there's peacocks,

14 (12m 38s):
There's horses,

15 (12m 39s):
There's horses, there's

14 (12m 40s):
Stables, and there's a giant copper pot, which is the size of you actually get in the copper pot. It's actually perfect the size of you.

15 (12m 47s):
I'm not leaving here. She

14 (12m 48s):
Could cook us into chili and she thing she might, if the interview gets too

15 (12m 51s):
Would and it would be delicious.

14 (12m 53s):
Don't worry, we didn't get cooked in the cauldron. But thanks to Martha Stewart, the interview did get spicy.

16 (12m 58s):
I was hired by Mark Burnett to fire Donald. Oh, okay. To say you are fired. Just like he had said to hundreds of people right during his apprentice, I was to fire him and take over.

14 (13m 10s):
Oh Martha, to hear why she says she didn't get to fire Trump. Listen to On with Kara Swisher wherever you get your podcasts.

17 (13m 19s):
This September, the code conference enters a new era. Join me, Nili Patel, editor-in-Chief of the Verge. And my two co-hosts, platformers Casey Newton and CNBC's Julia Borson is we talk to the leaders making headlines in tech, business, politics, and the messy collision between them all. We'll dig deep into the topics that are shaping our world, like AI streaming and the future of social media. And as always, with code, no one will be safe from the hot seat. You can apply to attend the code conference at Vox media.com/code. That's Vox media.com/code.

18 (13m 57s):
Okay, ladies, need to see some id.

19 (13m 60s):
No, you don't

18 (14m 3s):
Ma'am, I should warn you, I do have the authority to make a citizen's arrest.

19 (14m 7s):
So does anyone I could arrest you right now.

14 (14m 9s):
That's true,

18 (14m 10s):
She could. Hey, not talking to you.

1 (14m 12s):
Okay. It's today explained Alana Semuels. In the first half of the show, you told us that in the last 20 years since nine 11, private security has exploded. And one company in particular, Allied Universal is the third biggest private employer in North America.

20 (14m 30s):
We band together to safeguard your people, businesses, and communities, giving you the freedom to love, create, produce, and innovate. Because when we are fearless, humanity thrives.

14 (14m 44s):
How

1 (14m 44s):
Did it get so big? It's kinda

6 (14m 46s):
Like a pacman where it just gobbles up lots of other companies, If, you even Google, Allied Universal, you'll see there are, it used to be all these other companies like G four s, it just, there are lots of smaller companies and it keeps eating those bigger companies. I actually have a friend whose family has a pretty small private security company and they said, you know, our dream is to be acquired because that's kind of how you get out and that's what's happening across the country is Allied is just eating up all these other companies and and acquiring all their, their contracts. So Amazon and Walmart are the two biggest employers in North America. And then you have Allied. So it's really two big companies that have gotten a lot of scrutiny in the last couple years.

6 (15m 27s):
And Allied,

1 (15m 29s):
Walmart and Amazon, both behemoths and both of them, If, you ask people, is this a good place to work? You're gonna get mixed responses for sure. What is it like to work for Allied?

6 (15m 39s):
I talked to dozens of people and reviewed dozens of lawsuits and I did not find anybody who had a positive experience working for Allied.

21 (15m 49s):
I have been shift supervisor with Allied Universal. This is an update video for the fact that I quit. This has been one of the worst working experiences of my life.

22 (15m 59s):
You're not nobody, you're just a number to them.

21 (16m 4s):
So right now I am working a 32 hour shift, basically.

6 (16m 12s):
It really sounds like as they're growing, they're really losing control of the contracts and they just do not have enough people to staff all of these security contracts. So it's a private company, so we don't really know what's going on back there, but you have a lot of examples of pretty horrible things going on. I talked to a woman who worked in a hospital and basically her first day on the job, she was told to disarm people coming into the hospital with weapons and you know, if, if there's a shooting victim, she'd have to lock down the hospital, she'd have to escort corpses to the morgue. And she did not have any training to do any of this.

6 (16m 52s):
I talked to a guy who patrolled a shopping center in California and his job was to ask homeless people to move if they were camped out there. And he said he had been spit on. And you know, sometimes people were very nice and sometimes it would, it would turn a little nearly violent. You have examples of people who actually have been killed on the job. If. you remember the Mall shooting in Texas. The security guard on staff there who was killed was an Allied security guard, If. you remember the Buffalo Supermarket shooting? The security guard who was killed there also worked for Allied

23 (17m 31s):
Working security at the Tops grocery store. Seltzer engaged the shooter who was heavily protected by Body armor.

1 (17m 43s):
Why do people keep hiring them? If I'm a homeowner's association or a business and the data is mixed on how effective private security guards are and also there are all of these other problems, why keep doing this?

6 (17m 55s):
There really aren't that many other options in part because they've acquired so many companies. So If, you look at many markets across the country, there may be two security companies that you can hire because they've acquired so many other companies. And so maybe you try one and then maybe you try the other one. And if neither of them are particularly effective, you might end up just bouncing back and forth between them. And you know, the other problem is people want security. They want this sense that someone is gonna protect them, even if it's a false sense of security. They wanna hire someone to do that. And so Allied can't get enough people to do that, but people still wanna feel like they did something. They wanna be able to say, well, at least we had security. So, you know, we tried.

6 (18m 36s):
And you know, I think the problem is you have a lot of industries in the US especially industries where the workers have to be there in person. They can't work Remotely that are having trouble finding enough people. And this is probably one of the less pleasant jobs where you're not getting paid very much and it's dangerous. And so no wonder they're having trouble getting people and no wonder people keep hiring them and they can't staff all the contracts that they're getting.

1 (19m 3s):
This makes me wonder whether in your reporting you came across any conversations about whether maybe we need more police officers.

6 (19m 10s):
I watched this lengthy hearing in North Carolina where the Charlotte area was deciding on what they were gonna do in their public transit system because they had Allied officers as private police on the public transit system and they had just been getting all these complaints and you know, even the das were saying, Allied officers are filing these charges that don't even make any sense. So they decided to replace Allied. You have the mayor pro tem of Charlotte saying we should fund more police and then the police can come on the public transit system.

24 (19m 41s):
Our local law enforcement are accountable to us on a public body. Those corporate police forces are not accountable to anybody besides their business models. Right? So they would In fact be a contractor, right? And they are, they are. They don't come and answer to the city council or the county commission or the sheriff or the chief of police.

6 (20m 5s):
And not only did he lose, but the council decided to double its private security budget. They changed the contract, but instead of police, they're spending the money on private security.

1 (20m 15s):
Why? What was the reasoning?

6 (20m 16s):
Because they're short staffed and because the police just don't have the resources to patrol the public transit system. you know, they don't have enough people to really do what they need to do without doing the public transit system. So how are they gonna add on a whole public transit contract? Police training is gonna take longer than training a private security guard.

1 (20m 35s):
So there's an acknowledgement that there's a problem with private security and the mayor pro tem says, we have a problem, we have the option to hire more police. And the city council says, no, absolutely not. We're gonna stick with private security.

6 (20m 47s):
Yeah, I think Allied being a private company is really helpful just because if you're a police department, you have some accountability, they can really see what's going on behind the scenes and say, look, you don't have the people to to hire this contract. Whereas if you're a private company, you can make all the promises in the world and the only thing that's gonna happen, If, you don't, don't make them, is maybe you're gonna get fired. Actually in Colorado, Allied couldn't fill all the positions. It was supposed to fill on the public transit and so it actually had to pay Colorado back. But that's the only thing that's gonna happen is they're gonna lose some money. But Allied does have some problems just in that they have a lot of court cases pending against them. There have a lot of public relation problems.

6 (21m 29s):
Right now, there's a case that's gonna go to trial later this year that a guy who was riding the public transit system in Miami in the very beginning of the pandemic basically got beat, beat up with an inch of his life and there was Allied security guard on the train,

25 (21m 46s):
But he gets off minutes before the attack. The lawsuit claims the guard should have been more vigilant following several attacks earlier that month on Metro mover.

6 (21m 55s):
And it later came out that he had been fired from his job at a corrections institute. So, you know, their hiring practices are getting them into more and more trouble. And I think you do see places like North Carolina saying, okay, this isn't working, where else can we go? The problem is that there just aren't that many other options because police are so short staffed and because Allied and the other big companies have really eaten up all the smaller ones.

1 (22m 22s):
After I read your piece, I started seeing private security guards everywhere too. In fact, I was talking to a couple of my neighbors who are private security guards about your piece. Oh wow. They don't work for Allied, but, but they were interested in it and it did make me wonder what would happen if this industry didn't exist? Is there an understanding that if we didn't have private security guards in the United States, we would see a lot more crime? Or is even that sort of unproven? I

6 (22m 50s):
Think that's unproven. I think we, we've gotten ourselves into this pretty vicious cycle where you know, more people have guns and then you have people feeling like they need guns to protect themselves or protect other people from the guns and they need private security protect themselves from the guns. I think If, you didn't have private security, you might remove one layer of that vicious cycle of, oh, there's security and guns everywhere, so I need one too. You kind of wonder, you know, what's gonna make places fund public services like police more? And it does seem like there has to be some sort of tipping point where they realize, you know, this is, this is what we need.

6 (23m 31s):
This is what we decided as a country where we're gonna do is we're gonna fund police and not we're gonna fund police to the bare minimum. And then If, you can afford it, you can add some services on, on top of that.

1 (23m 51s):
That was Time Magazine's, Alana Semuels. Today's show was produced by Miles Bryan and edited by Matthew Collette. It was engineered by Michael Rayfield and it was thoroughly fact checked by Laura Bullard Laura is our private security guard. The rest of our team includes Patrick Boyd, Fiona Petros, Heidi Modi, Amanda Luellen, Halima Shaw, mother of two, Victoria Chamberlain and John Aarons. While Victoria is out on maternity leave, my co-host is Sean Rames firm. Amina Elsa is our supervising producer, and Miranda Kennedy is our ep. We're distributed to public radio stations across the United States by W N Y C in New York City. I'm Noel King today, explained as part of the Vox Media podcast network.