1 (2s):
When you order a pair of sweatpants online and don't want to keep them a colossal, mostly opaque system of labor and machinery creaks into motion to find them a new place in the world. From the outside, you see fairly little of it. The software interface that lets you tick some boxes and print out your prepaid shipping label may be the UPS clerk who scans it when you drop the package off. Beyond that whole systems of infrastructure, transporters, warehousers, liquidators, recyclers, resellers work to shuffle and reshuffle the hundreds of millions of products a year that consumers have tried and found wanting and deep within that system. In a processing facility in the Lehigh Valley, a guy named Michael has to sniff the sweatpants,

0 (49s):
Michael

2 (50s):
And the rest of the mighty American returns machine ahead on today.

Imperfect Paradise People Versus Karen (54s):
Explained In December, 2020, a Latino couple was falsely accused by a white mom influencer of attempting to kidnap her children, the Karen phenomenon where white women falsely accuse people of color of crimes, usually fixates on the accuser, the so-called Karen. But for this series we focus on the innocent couple. At the heart of this story, I just want the public to know what she did was wrong. Imperfect paradise people versus Karen available now wherever you get your podcasts,

0 (1m 32s):
Get Patty back it up, back it up. It's today. Explain

2 (1m 39s):
Amanda Mall staff writer at The Atlantic, who is Michael?

1 (1m 44s):
Michael is a material handler. That's the type of job that he does. He works for a company called Inmar Intelligence, which is a reverse logistics and returns liquidator that has a but more than a dozen facilities across the country where they handle stuff that comes back from retailers, from online shoppers. But he is an employee in that Pennsylvania facility that I visited in November. Yeah,

2 (2m 9s):
You went inside the returns machine and I would like you to take us there, I think we all know how the first part of this works, you get a thing, you decide you don't want the thing, so you go get your gift receipt, your return receipt, you print out a return label, maybe the package came with a return label and you send it back, you walk it to FedEx or USPS or UPS or they come pick it up and that's it. You get a credit a day or two later or maybe immediately, but what happens to the package?

1 (2m 41s):
Well, if you're in New York City like I am, the first thing that happens is the package gets on 78 out through New Jersey. In two Pennsylvania, there is a, a town outside of Allentown called Breinigsville, and it is a town that exists regionally in a lot of places in the country, which is this sort of like excerpt area where a lot of logistics that serves a larger denser population center happens from the outside in Mar intelligence, this particular facility that I visited is sort of anonymous. It doesn't really have a much outward branding on it. There's just all these low slung, extremely large white or pale gray buildings sort of laid out over the course of, you know, acres and acres of land.

1 (3m 28s):
The particular facility that I visited was 300,000 square feet. Oh wow. Yeah, the average like regular Walmart, not a Supercenter, is 105,000 square feet. So

2 (3m 38s):
It's three Walmarts. Yes.

1 (3m 40s):
What we're, what you're looking at is a facility that's the size of three mul Walmarts and a lot taller.

2 (3m 44s):
Okay. And if you're driving down the highway and you saw it, you might be like, Hmm. Wonder what that is. But then like a song comes on and you totally forget it, but you not forget it. You went inside.

1 (3m 55s):
Right? Right. When you walk into the facility, the first thing that hits you or the first thing that hit me was that it is just, there's just so much cardboard. It's like walking into a cardboard forest, sort of, most of the square footage is taken up with storage of various types, either pallets of returns that have come in and that need to be processed or pallets of returns that have already been processed and are waiting to be shipped back out to their next destination. And then you hit these clearings in the cardboard forest where people are working on sorting different types of returns.

1 (4m 36s):
The first set is drugstore returns. They are the returns processor for a large chain American drugstore. When you go in the fall and look at what is has been returned, you're gonna see a lot of like styrofoam coolers. You're gonna see beach chairs, beach towels, seasonal merchandise that has reached the end of its lifespan for that year and is then headed out somewhere else to see if it can find a new life. And then the second section that you hit after you walk in is rugs in this particular facility. Drugs

2 (5m 8s):
And rugs.

1 (5m 9s):
Yes. Drugs and rugs. They process an enormous amount of rug returns for a major online retailer. Something fascinating that I found out in the facility is that, you know, bracketing, which is the practice of buying like a size down or a size up from the size that you think you might need, that's

2 (5m 26s):
Called bracketing.

1 (5m 28s):
Yes. Okay. That is really a well-known practicing clothing. A lot of people do that. Like you buy two pairs of jeans or three pairs of jeans because one of these sizes will fit probably

2 (5m 36s):
Wait, a lot of people buy three pairs of jeans and then just return two. Oh yeah,

1 (5m 41s):
Yeah. Super, super common. It's

2 (5m 42s):
So much easier. Just go to the jeans store, isn't it? I don't know.

1 (5m 46s):
Yes, yes it is. What I learned atmar is that a lot of people also apparently do that with rugs.

2 (5m 54s):
What? That's insane.

1 (5m 57s):
Absolutely insane. Yeah. It's, it's wild behavior to do that.

2 (6m 0s):
And that's why a, a fair chunk of this Inmar facility is dedicated to rugs.

1 (6m 6s):
Yes. Yes. A really, a really large part of it is dedicated to rugs, like bigger than I expected it to be, even though rugs themselves are big and therefore take up more space than like shoes. It, it is such a volume of returns that it takes up like a decent chunk of the 300,000 square feet of this facility

2 (6m 23s):
Is, is shoes taking up another fair chunk? 'cause shoes, I would predict

1 (6m 27s):
Shoes. I didn't see that many shoes when I was there. Shoes do get returned, huh? But they're, they're lumped in with the apparel section, which is the next section you hit after rugs. you know, they're significant apparel of all kinds, whether it's shoes, accessories, clothes, whatever is a really, really high return rate category. And so you get a lot of people processing those returns and that's where I encountered Michael. So what you see are these, is this series of stations. There was about two dozen of them, and each station is staffed by a single worker and in front of them they have a table, they have a lot of bright lights so they can see like the fine details of everything they're looking at.

1 (7m 7s):
They have tools, they have sanitizing wipes, they have box cutters, they have scissors, they have all kinds of things that you might need in order to get a piece of clothing into good condition. They have lint, rollers, stuff like that. And then they have a monitor that tells them what they have to do with every particular item of clothing that they're evaluating based on what the particular brand of clothing requires of Inmar. There's like this whole decision tree that workers like Michael have to go through depending on the retailer that sold this product and what they will allow.

2 (7m 44s):
Did you ask him what like the craziest stuff he's ever seen was?

1 (7m 47s):
Well, I did get some interesting stories in general from the various people that I talked to. The most common item that comes back with pants is underwear.

2 (7m 60s):
Well, like not new underwear. Someone's underwear.

1 (8m 2s):
Yeah. Like, like, like stow away underwear. you know, somebody whipped on a pair of jeans that they had pulled out of their, the package that that, that they just received. They put 'em on over whatever undies they were already wearing and they decided, oh, I don't like these. So they just took the whole thing off. The underwear stayed in the pants.

2 (8m 20s):
They at least they were wearing undies, you know? Yeah.

1 (8m 22s):
At least the undies were present at some point in the process. They were present for too much of it, but at least they were introduced into the equation at some point, which is why the like individual humans have to ensure that the underwear does not make it back to a new Byers. And they, they've found, you know, wedding rings in pockets. They, you find random jewelry, you get like an errant vape here and there. Clothing is such an intimate thing. It is so close to us. It interacts with so much about our daily lives. Even if all you're doing is trying something on the, the process of figuring out if it's brand new or if anything is wrong with it or what might be wrong with it is just really hands-on intimate work.

2 (9m 6s):
So it's pretty clear what's gonna happen here if the piece is perfect, it's going back to the retailer, it's getting resold, but I imagine it gets much more complicated when there are some sort of imperfections here.

1 (9m 17s):
Well, even if something is perfect, it might not necessarily go back to the original retailer. Hmm. Clothing is the highly seasonal, high turnover product category. So even if something comes back and is totally pristine, it's, you know, the tags are on, maybe it's the second size that somebody bought of an item and they tried on the first one and it fit, so they didn't even take the second one out of its wrapping. If it's toward the end of that product cycle, if they bought those two things because they were on sale at the end of the season, then probably in a lot of circumstances the retailer isn't gonna want that back because then it will just have to send it back to Inmar again, you know, in a few weeks to be processed again, to go out to a liquidator, to go out to a recycler depending on what their preference is.

8 (10m 4s):
TJ Maxx over 10,000 brand name fall fashions arrive at TJ Maxx every week. So it's never the same place twice.

1 (10m 12s):
So depending on, on what the type of product is, if it's like in great shape or perfect, but it's just not cost effective for the retailer to take that back or they know they don't want it back, even if it is perfect, a lot of times that stuff will get, you know, put into the bin behind Michael, behind the material handler that is, that is designated for liquidation. What that means is clothes are sold in bulk to retailers that deal with overstocks at the very high end of the market. You do get your, the brand names that consumers know. You get the TJ Maxx and the Marshalls and things like that.

7 (10m 50s):
Never, ever the same.

1 (10m 57s):
And then there's a whole ecosystem of middleman, wholesalers, re resellers beneath that, that will take other kinds of products that aren't necessarily fit for a, a sort of branded American consumer facing retailer like that. The next sort of tier of stuff is, is things that are either donated or recycled. Huh. So donation happens, you know, not dissimilarly to how it happens when you clean out your closet and take a bunch of stuff to Goodwill. It just happens on a much larger scale. Donation is like, recycling is a little bit difficult to say what exactly happens to any of that stuff after it's donated because then it's sort of off the books, it's off the retailer's books, it's off in Mars books.

1 (11m 43s):
It's the, the job of the donation handler to figure out exactly how much of that stuff can actually be used by people in need available. Intel suggests that a lot of that stuff does end up ultimately in a landfill or otherwise disposed of, but it's really difficult to say how much, because there's so many layers of middlemen that it becomes impossible to track. Like what happens to a particular garment after a certain point. And is there

2 (12m 8s):
Destruction happening in the Inmar facility itself? Is there a category of stuff that just can't go anywhere?

1 (12m 16s):
There is a category of stuff that just can't go anywhere for multi-brand retailers, according to in Mars data, it is about 15% of stuff that they receive back that is disposed of in various ways. There's not much destruction that goes that goes on in in Mars facility itself. Like they don't, they don't really incinerated stuff there. There are separate facilities for that which is, you know, of course another layer of middle man, which is what makes it so difficult to figure out what happens to any particular product is that most things pass through many hands before they meet their ultimate end, whatever that might be.

2 (12m 58s):
When we return on today, explained Amanda, Amanda's gonna tell us why. You probably had no idea how complicated this process was, why retailers would rather, you know, not of this whole wide world of reverse logistics

Noom (13m 31s):
Support For today. Explain comes from Noom. There is a whole big weight loss industry. It can be hard to figure out what works for you. Noom wants to tell you a bit about Noom. Noom uses science and personalization to try to help you manage your weight over the long term. Noom says that their psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors and you can decide how Noom fits into your life and not the other way around. Noom offered a sample of 4,272 numer and 98% of them said Noom helped them change their habits and behaviors for good. Sarah Frank is my colleague here at Vox who works on the business side of things. She had a chance to try out Noom and tell us how it went. There were days where I was overeating based on my goal and days where I was undereating and Noom had a very clever way of also matching my mood to those days. So I could actually see after about a week that I tend to eat less on days that I'm a little anxious or stressed and days that I'm more relaxed, I'm eating more and I know some people's habits are the opposite of that. You can sign up for a trial today at Noom dot com. That's NOOM dot com to sign up for a trial today.

10 (14m 42s):
So

Deleteme (14m 43s):
support for today Explain comes from Delete Me. Delete Me is a subscription service that finds information you don't want online and then tries to make sure it does not go or stay online. Delete me. We'll send you personalized privacy reports showing you what they found on you, where they found it, what they took down. Sarah Frank, who works with us here at Vox on the business side of things. Try it out. Delete me, Delete me. Scoured the internet and sent me a report highlighting dozens of sites where my name, address, age or phone number were listed. And instead of me having to take action, delete me as actively removing these on my behalf. You may be able to take control of your data and keep your private life private by signing up for Delete Me Now at a special discount for today. Explained listeners today, you can get 20% off your Delete Me Plan when you go to join delete me dot com slash today and use the promo code today at checkout. The way to get 20% off is to go to join delete me dot com slash today and enter code today at checkout. Once again, join delete me dot com slash today. Code today

NetSuite (15m 57s):
Support for today Explain comes from NetSuite. Here are some numbers from NetSuite. 37,000 businesses have upgraded to NetSuite by Oracle. According to NetSuite by Oracle, NetSuite is a cloud financial system that can help streamline your accounting, financial management, inventory, HR, and more. NetSuite turns 25 this year and according to NetSuite, that's 25 years of helping businesses do more with less close their books and days instead of weeks and drive down expenses. The last number is one, because your business is one of a kind. Yeah. So you can get a customized solution for all of your KPIs. you know what that means. I don't have to tell you in one efficient system all your data in one place, you can better manage risk, get reliable forecasts, improve margins, everything you need to grow all in one place at the moment. You can download NetSuite's popular KPI checklist designed to give you excellent performance absolutely free at NetSuite dot com slash explained. That's NetSuite dot com slash explain to get your own KPI checklist Today.

2 (17m 13s):
Explained back with Amanda Mull from The. Atlantic Amanda it, it feels like Michael's a real hardworking, sweet guy. Why is it that so many retailers would prefer to pretend like he doesn't exist?

1 (17m 26s):
Well, the entire process of reverse logistics and returns liquidation and Michael's job, all of these things are sort of inconvenient realities for retailers. you know, the general public is concerned about sustainability, they're concerned about waste. They feel like they're being constantly prompted to buy things. Knowledge of this sort of behind the scenes system and in exactly how large it is and how large it must be in order to deal with all this wasted product is just not very good for the brand overall, no matter what brand it is, nobody really wants to talk about this stuff. One thing that really hit me when I was walking through this facility is that you realize how unspecial all of this stuff is when it's just sort of like piled in boxes waiting to be inspected and and deemed worthy or unworthy by, you know, a warehouse worker.

1 (18m 18s):
It it is stripped of a lot of, its sort of like contextual power that marketing and that display in stores or good stock images on websites. This is all made up stories about the, the clothes that we're buying, the things that we're buying and pallets and pallets of stuff that nobody wanted is a reminder that a lot of that stuff doesn't work out.

2 (18m 39s):
How long has reverse logistics been this sort of integral part of our capitalism? Is it, is it sort of with the advent of online shopping that we get here?

1 (18m 52s):
Reverse logistics as an industry has on some level existed as long as retail has existed. So like since the 19th century for retail as we know it. But it was just as much smaller industry before the internet because you know, TJ Maxx existed when I was a kid in the nineties when nobody was buying things online.

9 (19m 14s):
TJ

1 (19m 14s):
Maxx. It didn't have the enormous volume of potential inventory that it has now before online shopping. The return rate overall in retail was a single digit percentage return rate at brick and mortar stores still is a single digit percentage for things sold at brick and mortar. But online your return rate is gonna be between 20 and 30% overall and for some product categories it's gonna be closer to 50%. Hmm. So online shopping enables retailers to sell more things to a larger audience so you get more inventory overall and more sales overall. And then you get a much higher percentage of those sales being returned. So you just end up with a lot more extra stuff that nobody wants.

1 (19m 58s):
And then the reverse logistics industry has sort of had to expand and become much more technical and much more data-driven in order to adapt to that. And in order to accommodate all of this stuff and find it a new place in the world,

2 (20m 15s):
Retail has changed so much in the past, I don't know, 20, 30 years. You mentioned this phenomena of bracketing where you buy three pairs of jeans or heaven forbid, three giant rugs just to pick the favorite once they're all delivered by some poor sap to your domicile. Would would any of this be happening if, if retailers didn't make it so easy and so cheap to return stuff?

1 (20m 46s):
I don't think so. I also don't think that we can put the rabbit back into the hat because what basically happened at the beginning of online retail is that retailers had to set these like super permissive policies because consumers looked at shopping online and went, I don't think this is a very good idea. I don't think I want to buy clothes or shoes or betting or sofas on the internet. I think that that is something that I would rather see in person. What a time that inclination on consumer's part was. Correct. It is stupid to buy shoes online and it's just a thing we all do now because retailers have trained us to do it.

12 (21m 26s):
I spent two minutes, two whole minutes, two minutes shopping for your gift and it was so doesn't getting credit for a present that was really super easy to give thanks to amazon com.

1 (21m 45s):
Part of that is this die off of local stores. A lot of towns in America do not have a a healthy retail landscape of their own. A lot of malls have, have gone out of business or are sort of sparsely populated because online retailers starting in the, the mid two thousands started offering really, really low prices. Prices that were so low that a lot of them weren't profitable. Mm. And then offering these sort of policies that allowed consumers to feel like they, there was no risk in buying online at

13 (22m 15s):
Zappos. We totally get how a job kids and a mean crochet habit could contribute to forgetting to return those shoes for nine months. That's why we have free returns for up to a year,

1 (22m 26s):
The luxury time. And then you get brick and mortar retailers who have existed for a long time and are then under sort of existential threat from Amazon and Zappos and the, this like early set of dot com retailers and they went, well if everybody is gonna buy this stuff on Amazon and Amazon's gonna sell it so cheap, I guess we have to get on board with this. I guess we have to do something to compete with them. If this is where people want to shop and these are the policies that they expect and the policies that we have to offer in order for people to continue to patronize our business, then I guess we have to do this.

2 (23m 0s):
Do you think the calculus could change? Do you think there could come a day where shipping, you know, seven rugs to someone is just wildly unsustainable and you know, cost inefficient to the point where someone says, you know what, you can't do that anymore. You get your one rug and if you don't like it you could buy a second one. you know,

1 (23m 23s):
What we're seeing lately is that consumers are now gonna have to start subsidizing their own habits. Mm. I think retailers have gotten to the point where it's like we can't just make prices higher. The habits that we've instilled in people and that we require in order to figure out what your size is in a new brand or figure out what kind of rug you need or whatever. Those habits themselves have become deleterious to the company because they create so much waste. So on the one hand you do contract with a third party that is supposed to extract the maximum amount of value from that unwanted merchandise as possible. But also I think we see retailers starting to try to put incentives in place to specifically discourage these behaviors.

1 (24m 5s):
You see a lot more retailers in the past couple of years starting to charge for returns again.

2 (24m 9s):
It's happening.

1 (24m 10s):
Yes. Pretty much across the board. Even Amazon, who is sort of thought of as the, the industry leader in these permissive policies, they have started to implement little fees here and there that are clearly intended, in my opinion, to guide consumer behavior. They want you to bring back your Amazon returns to a Whole Foods or an Amazon Fresh or one of their retailers and if you don't then they'll charge you a dollar. Hmm. And like that dollar is, you know, a pretty tiny fee relative to how much it costs to take a return. But it is clearly a signal that Amazon and therefore like all other retailers, if Amazon is feeling this, then so is everybody.

1 (24m 51s):
'cause they're about as well insulated from these issues as possible.

2 (24m 54s):
How are consumers responding to those changes?

1 (24m 58s):
Largely, they're, they're responding by paying those fees. So far. Ha There there has not been any, any significant decrease like industry-wide in the return rate based on all the data that I've seen across the board. And then when I asked Inmar if they had seen any difference since a lot of their retailers started implementing these policies designed to reduce returns, they said that their volume was as high as ever. Hmm. So I think a lot of consumers are still in the process of realizing that these fees have have begun to return and realizing where they're being nickeled and dimmed in a more explicit way. So I think any behavior change that we see is probably a year or two or so in the future, but I'm not sure exactly how much we can reverse this behavior because the realities of trying to buy things in person have just changed a lot.

1 (25m 46s):
The way we view the convenience versus the hassle of, of having to go out and do an errand has changed those habits. And those perceptions might change again over time, but it took us, you know, about 20 years to get to where we are with the sort of commonality of, of buying things online and returning the four sizes that didn't work. So this is not something that happens overnight. And Michael and people like Michael will have work for the foreseeable future.

2 (26m 15s):
I'm happy for him.

1 (26m 16s):
Yeah. Good for him. He said he used to work construction and now he's, now he's doing this and this was easier. So I'm, I'm happy for him.

2 (26m 29s):
Amanda Mull, she wrote a piece called, this is what happens to all the stuff You Don't Want. You can read it at The Atlantic dot com. Episode 1,437 of today Explained was produced by Amanda Big Dog Lewellyn. She had help from Amina Aldi, Laura Bullard, Rob Byers and David Herman take it easy on the rugs this year we return with more today. Explained next week.