0 (2s):
What's behind Vladimir Putin, brutal siege of the city of Mariupol.

2 (8s):
So Mario Paul in Southern Ukraine, it's already a city in ruins after days of bombardments.

0 (14s):
One reason is obvious location. It's positioned almost like a bridge between two Ukrainian territories that Russia already occupies, but there's another possible reason in 2014, when Russia invaded those territories, it wanted to take Mariupol to

3 (32s):
The separatists. Certainly had it in their targets, but you train your forces dead, beat back the Russians and secured the town. Something that some believe Putin never really forgave

0 (46s):
On today explained Vladimir Putin seeks revenge and an international law expert tries to determine the price that Putin should pay. Jack Losch is a filmmaker and freelance journalist. He spent a lot of time covering Eastern Ukraine since 2014. He travels roads that cut through endless fields and steps and land that's punctuated by grim gray post-Soviet mining towns, which might explain why he loves Mariupol.

3 (1m 28s):
Mariupol is by the sea. And you could feel the change in air It's on a sea called the, as of see, you know, where people would kind of go down to the beach, that some bays are kind of a touch of the Mediterranean atmosphere of just people being out in the streets, taking in the air. My Marie Paul friends, I've always described it as that much more liberal. It's a city where people prefer marijuana over alcohol. They've said to me, that gay people found a more permissive atmosphere and why it's fair to say a pretty homophobic country. And some of them have seen that as being the antithesis of what the Putin regime represents.

3 (2m 16s):
Of course, it wasn't that far away from the front line,

5 (2m 21s):
Paul, between Ukrainian forces and pro-Russian

3 (2m 24s):
Bombed out villages like Sherlock and over just really a few miles down the road,

5 (2m 29s):
More than 20 people have been killed.

3 (2m 31s):
And you would get echoes of the war there,

6 (2m 36s):
Correct about separatists defensive, still looms, large

3 (2m 39s):
It see sometimes soldiers moving into the street and the

6 (2m 42s):
Front line is just a few kilometers away,

3 (2m 46s):
But really for somewhere so close to an active frontline up until recently, I felt quite far from the war. It felt quite peaceful.

0 (3m 4s):
Why did this city become such a target for the Russian military?

3 (3m 8s):
Well, if you can picture a map of Ukraine along its Southern coast along the Azov sea and going into the black sea, you have Crimea, which of course Russia annexed in 2014, but they never got further than that. Apart from the Donetsk and Lou Hansgrohe regions in Southeastern Ukraine, that border Russia and the thinking was that Putin would always want a land corridor to connect these defacto puppet states occupied by Russia and the, these, these Russian backsack artists connecting those with the Russian occupied peninsula of Crimea Mariupol lies along that coast.

3 (3m 49s):
And by securing that city in other towns, you'd be able to connect up those two places, Crimea and Donbass. Why would you want to do that? Where they built this big bridge, connecting Russia with the Crimean peninsula several years ago,

7 (4m 3s):
This was the first traffic to cross the newly opened Crimea bridge

3 (4m 8s):
With great cost. And it's just one rose

7 (4m 10s):
Construction trucks, one driven by Vladimir Putin himself sped the 19 kilometers across the Curt straight.

3 (4m 19s):
Well, this would just allow another way of supplying the Crimean peninsula there. You know, Mary, you put as well. It's a very industrial city. There's kind of huge plants factories there. Since

8 (4m 32s):
We began work in 1973,

9 (4m 35s):
We've

8 (4m 35s):
Rolled out 61 million tons of steel.

3 (4m 41s):
So the economic gain of taking over such a city is pretty large though. Of course, we've seen that infrastructure absolutely gutted over the last few weeks by these Russian rockets. So it's kind of hard to see what economic interest there is for Russia now, other

0 (4m 59s):
When and how did the siege of Mariupol start?

3 (5m 3s):
Well, I mean, war erupted in Ukraine and the 24th of February, the horror is that we're now seeing and folds really began escalating I'd say a week or so later. I mean, the seeds really began ramping up. I'd say at the beginning of this month, one of the problems is that these communication towers, these phone towers around the SIS, you were taken out pretty early on as well. There are two reasons for that one to sew chaos. If you can't communicate with the outside world and see what's going on, that's going to induce panic. And two, it serves impunity, The destruction against the human population and the fabric of the city has been immense

10 (5m 54s):
And Marielle pole where food and medicines are running out. 400,000 people are stranded in a paralyzed ruined city.

3 (6m 3s):
We've seen bodies of children, women civilians killed in these unrelenting, Russian bombardments, and these bodies piling up the mass graves. We've seen Russian airstrikes and Russian artillery shells, destroying homes,

11 (6m 16s):
Ukraine calls this strike, which hit a maternity hospital in Mario Paul, a

3 (6m 21s):
War crime bombing the maternity hospital.

11 (6m 23s):
If a hospital is hit, how can anyone be safe?

3 (6m 28s):
We've heard reports of trach residents melting snow to drink burning furniture for warmth in the freezing cold last week, several thousand people, tens of thousands of people actually in thousands of cars did manage to escape, but that followed multiple failed attempts to create humanitarian corridors through this Russian seeds we need

11 (6m 53s):
We have not done and would never do anything like this war crime in any of the cities of the don't yet score Lugansk regions or of any region because we are people, but are you

3 (7m 5s):
In terms of the deaths? I mean, no one knows the official toll has been put more than two and a half thousand. We're not going to know for a while. And by stopping Ukrainian civilians and journalists documenting these war crimes and these atrocities, or that only serves to bolster the lack of accountability, the Russians are hoping to face

0 (7m 28s):
People in Mariupol are taking shelter, they're leaving their homes and they're going to public buildings. And it seems as though Russia is deliberately targeting those public buildings where people are, are hiding, are seeking to be safe. Can you tell me a little bit about what we've seen in terms of the direct targeting of civilians and, and how Russia is attacking those, those areas?

3 (7m 50s):
Sure. Well, I mean the world watched some horror last week while hundreds potentially more than a thousand civilians were sheltering and the drama theater in the city center.

13 (7m 60s):
This is video posted on social media, said to have been recorded a week ago, and it shows women, children, and the elderly seeking refuge in the theaters basement.

3 (8m 10s):
It's a beautiful building kind of neoclassical facade. And last week, one of these struck the building head on

13 (8m 18s):
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky says the building was hit by in his words, a huge Russian bomb.

3 (8m 25s):
And you started coming out a few days ago that actually the shelter had Howard up and that people were alive, but there are trapped and many tons of rebel to be bombing places like that, places, which by the way, had the Russian word for children written outside and huge letters to let the Russian war planes know that this was a civilian target. Clearly didn't do anything to dissuade them from bombings. It's a civilian target, which would likely qualify as a war crime. Not only are you these places, but the fact that rescue attempts are stymied as well. Just gives you a sense, the nightmare that these people have been living through

0 (9m 3s):
Based on the conversations you've had with people in Mariupol, people who have left the city, how much longer does Mary Opal have? Do you think

3 (9m 11s):
There's a great deal of uncertainty and what we're probably moving towards now is less purely of a distant bombardment of the city. And we're now moving to a much more grueling phase of street battles. The battle is going to continue. And that only spells one thing for the hundreds of thousands of civilians who remain there, death it's horrific injuries, suffering, and it's fear. It's not just the people who were in that city. There are many people who grew up in Mariupol who are looking on this from a far with absolute horror, who is still waiting to find out if their loved ones are well, let alone alive.

3 (9m 54s):
I was speaking to my friend Victoria about this a few days ago. And I asked her what her hopes were when this nightmare ends. And she told me this,

14 (10m 4s):
My husband and I, we discussed, why should you be right now? Go there because he wants to be there, but we have to suffer. So because we understand that one day somebody has to build it up again. And I think we are the people who can do this

3 (10m 28s):
Great pain, but perhaps a little bit of optimism amid this immense darkness. That one day they will be able to take their city back to the happier, more peaceful place at once was

15 (10m 58s):
This is advertiser content from the American cancer society.

16 (11m 2s):
My name is Tracy Kimbro, and this is a letter to my sister. Cheryl, we've always known that cancer runs in our family, but when you were diagnosed in 2002, I struggle to believe it through surgery, chemo, radiation, and all the treatment side effects. You found ways to help the family process what was happening. You never let us see you be afraid though, looking back. I know you must have been. It was five years later almost to the day when I got my own breast cancer diagnosis. You were the first person I called later. We found out a BRCA gene mutation is why our family is at such high risk for breast and other cancers.

16 (11m 44s):
I am thankful my cancer was detected early and that we acted quickly because of your experience. You helped me get the best possible care. I never thought I could be here without you, but after being in remission for 12 years, your cancer returned, I will forever fight to help others. So no one has to go through this alone. You were the best sister in the world, my best friend and my rock. I miss you. And I love you. Love Tracy.

15 (12m 18s):
Black women are 41% more likely to die of breast cancer than white women. Despite lower incidents. There are systemic factors like racism and barriers to healthcare that make breast cancer outcomes worse for black women to learn more about how the American cancer society is addressing cancer disparities, visit cancer.org/health equity

17 (12m 44s):
Support for today's show comes from our crowd. Many of you listening to this podcast, don't have the funds to buy a start-up company outright, which is fine. Life. Isn't all about money. But if you do want to try and buy into a startup company, our crowd can help you invest like a successful venture capitalist. Our crowd analyzes private companies and cherry picks the ones with the highest growth potential. Then they bring them straight to investors like you making it possible to buy in early when growth potential is greatest. Our crowd offers investments across growth stages and industries from personalized medicine to cybersecurity, to health tech, tackling the IVF and fertility treatment market, which continues to grow. Now you can invest in future family. Who's providing families with access to affordable treatment through buy now pay later financing.

17 (13m 29s):
Future family powers, fertility clinics throughout the U S continue to grow patients serve last year. Invest today at our crowd, our crowds accredited investors have already invested over $1 billion in growing tech companies joined the fastest growing venture capital investment community at our crowd.com/explained that's O U R C R O w d.com/explained.

0 (13m 59s):
Felipe sands is a law professor he's currently visiting at Harvard. He's also a practicing lawyer with deep expertise in crimes against humanity and genocide. Felipe president Joe Biden recently called Bladimir Putin, a war criminal. Do you agree? That's what Putin is.

10 (14m 17s):
I listened with interest to president Biden's characterization of Putin as a war criminal. I'm wondering whether the remarks was somewhat off the cuff, Perhaps not quite fully prepared, cause I'm not sure what he meant. There are four existing international crimes under international law, one established war crimes, targeting civilians and genocide, and then a fourth crime crime of aggression. If president Biden was referring to Vladimir Putin as someone who's perpetrating war crimes, that might go a little far.

10 (15m 3s):
I think that war crimes seem to be taking place in Ukraine. There is ample evidence of the targeting willful targeting of civilians. What we don't know of course is who is responsible for that? Is it fighters on the ground? Is it military commanders? Is it Vladimir Putin himself? So I think to characterize him as a war, criminal goes a bit far. I think you can certainly say here's the head of state of a country that is currently perpetrating war crimes.

0 (15m 34s):
Okay. This is a very interesting distinction. I want to ask you to dig in a bit more a person like me. Who's not a barrister might say, but Putin is the boss of the country, right? So if his forces are doing things that reach the level of war crimes, like what we're seeing in Maricopa with the theater with civilians and children, sheltering targeted, if the president of the country, if the leader of the country is the one on whose behalf that army is acting, isn't it obvious that he's a war criminal?

10 (16m 4s):
Well, it may be obvious, but put yourself in the position of the prosecutor at the international criminal court, who will surely be investigating the terrible events that are happening at Marie Paul, where it seems that individual civilians are being targeted. The prosecutor has to prove a number of things. He's got to prove that civilians are being hit, that they'd been targeted or that the targeting is reckless. And there is a disproportionate killing or harm to civilians, but the prosecutor then has to do something else. The prosecutor has to identify the person or persons who are responsible for that. And that raises a number of questions. It could be the individuals who are actually firing the muscles.

10 (16m 44s):
It could be the commanders who are telling the individual who's firing the muscles to fire randomly and to hit civilian targets, or it could be on instructions or with reckless abandon that the head of state has ordered all of his military to target in that way, which affects civilians in this terrible way. That's what we don't know. And that's what a prosecutor has to prove. Now I have to say the scale of what is happening is certainly consistent with responsibility going all the way to the top. It's called command responsibility. But I suppose I'm being a little bit cautious in recognizing that a prosecutor's job is to prove the relationship between the individual in this case, Mr.

10 (17m 28s):
Putin, and the crimes that are said to be being perpetrated.

0 (17m 32s):
And are you being cautious? Because that is in fact, a very difficult thing to do. We know that there are many leaders in this world who do bad things to their people or to other people they don't often go to trial. Do they

10 (17m 43s):
I'm being cautious because bitter experience teaches me that proving a crime at an court is, is not a straightforward thing. Particularly when it comes to war crimes and crimes against humanity, the prosecutor at the international criminal court is going to have to gather evidence. That's a long and time consuming process. And he's going to then have to tie that evidence to particular individuals who he will, presumably at some point in died. Now it may be that it goes all the way to the top, but that is going to take time. And I do think it's important that political leaders exercise care in what they say. I think war crimes are taking place. I think it's on such a systematic scale that it appears to be a crime against humanity, but I'm just being a little more cautious on who exactly is responsible for these crimes.

0 (18m 33s):
I wonder if we can step back into history a little bit and just explain the importance of some of these institutions. So president Biden makes this statement, Vladimir Putin is a war criminal. And then the rejoinder from Biden's critics is the United States is not a member of the international criminal court or ICC. Can you explain what the ICC is and why it matters?

10 (18m 59s):
The Nuremberg trial in 1945? The famous Nuremberg trial was the first instance of an international criminal tribunal being established

20 (19m 9s):
Nolan Burton, Germany, once the shrine, the city of the Nazis ravaged by the war, Hitler launched on the world. Ironically the scene at the final chapter of his partners in conquest

10 (19m 20s):
To prosecute Nazi leaders for war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide, and the crime of aggression,

20 (19m 28s):
The wrongs, which we seek to condemn and punish I've been so calculated, som malignant I'm so devastating that civilization cannot tolerate. They're being ignored.

10 (19m 45s):
There've been subsequent tribunals established on an ad hoc basis, but then in 1998, after 50 years of effort, governments finally came together and created this body known as the international criminal court.

21 (19m 57s):
Yeah, establishments of the ICC is above all a triumph of the universal value of justice, which is shared by all peoples of the world.

10 (20m 9s):
It's created by treaty. I was involved in the negotiations of the statute in Rome in 1998. And it came into force in 2002, and it's got about 125 states that have ratified the treaty. And the parties do not include some significant countries. The United States, Russia, China are not parties to the statute. Ukraine has accepted the jurisdiction of the international criminal court, but basically once the state has accepted the jurisdiction of the court, the court has jurisdiction to investigate crimes for within its powers that take place either on it, the territory of a state party, or which are perpetrated by the national of a state party.

10 (20m 52s):
Since Ukraine declared in 2014, it's acceptance of the jurisdiction of the court. The court has jurisdiction for crimes taking place on the territory of Ukraine, but the jurisdiction of the international criminal court is limited. In this case to war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, the ICC does not have jurisdiction over the fourth crime, which to my mind is the most important one of all. And that is the decision to wage war in the first place and to continue waiting war, which is why I, and many individuals, including former British prime ministers, Gordon brown and John major are calling for the creation of a special tribunal

0 (21m 32s):
Who does have jurisdiction over that. This is an interesting distinction. You've just drawn.

10 (21m 36s):
It's an important distinction because my concern is, and the concern of many others is that we find ourselves in a situation in five years time where some mid-level military or civilian leaders find themselves hauled up to the Hague being indicted and prosecuted for crimes against humanity or war crimes. But the main perpetrators, that's the say Mr. Putin and his cohort of characters around him, the finances, the political leaders, the military leaders somehow are off the hook. And if you don't focus on the crime of aggression, you're effectively letting the main perpetrators off the hook at this moment in time. No international tribunal has jurisdiction to try the crime of aggression.

10 (22m 19s):
Now, a brief word here on the crime of aggression curiously, it was put into the Nuremberg statute by the Soviets and after the Nuremberg judgment in 1946, the Soviet union and Ukraine and Belarus all incorporated into their domestic laws, into their criminal codes, their penal codes, the crime of aggression, as it was drafted at Nuremberg. And today, all of those countries accept the crime of aggression is a crime within their jurisdiction. And what the foreign minister of Ukraine and president Zelensky are calling for is an internationalization of Ukraine's domestic criminal jurisdiction over the crime of aggression.

10 (23m 1s):
Basically they're asking for help from other countries to set up an office in the Hague to investigate and as appropriate then prosecuted for the crime of aggression

0 (23m 11s):
Thing that I wonder will any of this and the war.

10 (23m 18s):
The truth is now we don't know on the legal side. What we do know is that there is ample evidence in other conflicts. And here I go all the way back to 1945 in the spring that putting people of interest on a list of possible indicted for international crimes investigations does have the effect of concentrating the mind. The example that comes immediately to my mind is that of Cole Wolf general Wolf, who was Hitler's major military commander in Southern Europe and in the spring of 1945, when he started featuring on various lists, he decided to break ranks and he cut a deal to basically avoid going to Nuremberg in return for Downing arms and cooperating much earlier.

10 (24m 5s):
And one of the hopes that I have for the crime of aggression beyond de-legitimizing, what Russia is doing, providing further support and solidarity with Ukraine and its people is that there will be in poutines close circle doubters. We know there are doubters and this might concentrate their minds, and that might have the effect of causing them to peel away. These things seem outlandish at this point, but you know, now in 1942, when the government in exile came together in London, initiates something called the declaration of James calling for the prosecution of Nazi criminals.

10 (24m 45s):
I don't think anyone really imagined it would happen, but three years later there, they were 24 of them in the dog Nuremberg. So I think we just don't know what is going to happen.

0 (25m 1s):
Today's show was produced by will read edited by Matthew Colette engineered by a theme Shapiro. And fact-checked by Laura Bullard. It's today explained I'm Noel king.