1 (3s):
It's Friday April 3rd, 2020 and Friday should still count for something. I'm Sean Rama's firm. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained. There are now more than a million cases of this novel coronavirus in the world nearly four billion people half of this thing. We call Humanity are in some form of lockdown things are getting real in Vietnam. They banned Gatherings of more than two people Singapore. Or has warned that anyone standing within three feet of someone else could spend six months in jail. Meanwhile in the United States several states are still lagging to get with the program at all. They don't have any stay-at-home orders in place Statewide, Iowa, Arkansas and Nebraska The Dakotas were looking at you.

1 (49s):
Dr. Anthony fauci, the nation's top infectious diseases specialist says the whole country should be staying inside but apparently vice president Pence says that President Trump doesn't Tell the states what to do velji is also now saying that all Americans should be covering their faces when they go out not necessarily with a mask. But with something a cloth a scarf your old Dave Matthews Band t-shirt. What do you got that what you told Fox and Friends today that this recommendation is based on new data that says that the virus can spread just when people are speaking to each other in close range. According to President Trump. The CDC is now officially changing its guidelines to say people should be wearing I'm non-medical masks much more on masks in today's show and lastly in case you are concerned.

1 (1m 37s):
There will be an Anthony falchi bobblehead. According to the Associated Press the national bobblehead Hall of Fame Museum in Milwaukee. Wisconsin is working on a bobblehead of falchi wearing a suit as he makes a motion showing how the nation needs to flatten the curve in case you were wondering if they'd broken our spirit yet evidently. Not today explained wasn't a She before it was cool scroll back to January 4th, 2019 in your feeds for proof. And today explain is easy to contact Twitter email listener voicemail line at today underscore explained a traumas from today. Explain to box.com and 2 0 2 6 8 8 5 9 4 4 respectively.

1 (2m 36s):
We dedicated the last two Fridays shows to your questions. We answered a bunch of questions in each of those episodes. Today. We're going to answer just one because it's a biggie. Hello. This is Matthew calling from Nashville Music City, but my question today is not about the art. Actually about the masks that I see people using on their face. What's the deal with them? Do they do any good if you're not sick.

4 (3m 6s):
To wear a mask or not to wear a mask of that is the question for many of us right now Kirk CDC guidelines say healthy people don't need to wear a mask in

1 (3m 18s):
public health authorities in Asia where the numbers

2 (3m 21s):
of covid-19

1 (3m 22s):
cases are improving say that Americans have it all wrong with face masks the head of the Chinese Center for Disease Control. Tell Science magazine that the big mistake in the US and Europe is that people aren't wearing masks. They believe that even masks made of simple.

4 (3m 36s):
Fabrics are helpful wearing a mask can decrease transmission by up to 50% Dr. Anthony fauci said because a schematic people may be

1 (3m 45s):
able to unknowingly transmit the virus. They're looking at the possibility of changing the recommendations. We're starting to re-examine the possibility that if there are enough masks should everyone be bearing

4 (3m 57s):
Mast the president said yesterday that he could actually see a scenario where every American maybe she should be wearing a

3 (4m 4s):
mask. A lot of people have scarves and you can use a scarf scarf would be very

1 (4m 8s):
good. The World Health Organization came out and said the

2 (4m 11s):
exact opposite. We don't generally recommend the wearing of masks in public tonight in a stunning policy reversal New York City joining, California in urging the general public to wear non-medical face coverings to stop the virus. We're advising New Yorkers to wear a face covering when you go outside and we'll be near other people and we're going to have to get used to you know, seeing each Like this, you know this, excuse me. This will be the

1 (4m 41s):
look. Today, we're going to try and clear up the mask question once and for all Joe. Allen is here to help.

3 (4m 50s):
I'm an assistant professor at Harvard th Chan School of Public Health and I direct the healthy buildings program there

1 (4m 56s):
and Jill what kind of building are you in right now? I'm in a closet in a row house in Washington DC.

3 (5m 2s):
I'm in my new office and actually the new classroom. I'm in my car like everybody else making do as best I can and this happens to be the quietest place. I can find in my

1 (5m 11s):
home. Okay respect. Joe you spend a lot of time thinking about air quality and how it affects our health. Let's talk about air quality and the coronavirus mask on mask off the CDC said off now, it's saying on people are very confused Joe.

3 (5m 27s):
Yeah. Well, I understand that people are confused and that's simply because the messaging coming out of CDC and this Administration has been really confusing. It's been inconsistent. I mean, it was just today that CDC finally came around and gave a firmer recommendation. At the general public should be wearing masks prior to that. They hadn't been so clear and the rationale we were assuming was because they didn't want to take away from Mass that were intended to go to Frontline workers and that all makes sense and is and is good and true and right but the messaging was never there. So the public was left confused and it was an inconsistent message. It works for health care doesn't work for the public.

3 (6m 8s):
So we're at the point now where they're making a firm recommendation, but right away the president. Cuts that and he

2 (6m 14s):
says I just don't wear one myself. It's a recommendation. They recommend it I'm feeling

3 (6m 21s):
good. I will say that there's good news in this recommendation from CDC. They said use non-medical cloth masks and that's exactly right. We cannot be using the general public cannot be using mass that are intended for Frontline workers. What we're talking about. Here are homemade non-medical cloth

1 (6m 39s):
masks. And of course, there's a lot of people between us and Healthcare workers there's also grocery store workers. There's delivery workers. There's people working in Amazon warehouses and all the rest. So and we're starting to see some issues there. What exactly was the reasoning the CDC provided when they gave this initial guidance. I think we talked about on the show. What we heard was we need to save the masks for healthcare workers is that the only reason they said Don't wear masks,

3 (7m 9s):
you know, I don't know their entire rationale. I'm not privy to those discussions and I do Stand that as a valid concern and you know, I'll tell you right now I'm position we should be wearing masks but I've been hesitant to say it publicly because there is that fear and it's real is that if you tell people it helps if you have a mask and certain mass of better than others while the natural tendencies people say, well, I want the best mask to protect myself my family my kids and I'm also glad you brought up the other workers in know I tend to call them into hidden hero is here. We spend a lot of time talking about doctors nurses and the front line workers and yes there. Feets are definitely heroic and deserve the recognition but there are a whole lot of people out there that are allowing the rest of us to shelter in place essentially and do this social distancing and that's everybody from the food supply chain.

3 (7m 56s):
The Grocer's the people delivering packages and they also rightly have concerns about their own exposure. Yeah, but that's always been guidance for healthcare workers, right? This is the idea of wearing a mask and particular an n95 respirator type mask is nothing new for people who work in. But also what's unique here is that all of a sudden there's a crunch. This is our first 50 state disaster. It's an international disaster. So there's no relief or save coming from another hospital system who has extra supplies to share

1 (8m 28s):
tell me a little bit more about the rest of the world how consistent were those CDC guidelines we had up to today that said no mask needed when you look at other countries that have been taking this seriously for much longer than the United States

3 (8m 43s):
well, The u.s. Approach is inconsistent with the rest of the world. And I you know, I don't think it takes much to notice that we've all seen pictures of people walking around in Asia with masks for a long time. And this is nothing new over there and it goes back to the SARS epidemic and murderers and other coronavirus so culturally it's accepted and the United States. This is just not something we've done and so it's different for us.

1 (9m 7s):
Yeah, are there other countries that have sort of acclimated to this new idea that like, oh, we should really be wearing masks. All the time, even if it creates social awkwardness or social distance as it might be

3 (9m 19s):
well, yeah, I mean other countries certainly the culture has

4 (9m 22s):
changed Austria banned people from entering supermarkets without wearing a

1 (9m 26s):
mosque. We've been MIA for comment because that's not part of our culture. It's going to be a big change but its necessary to take this step and further reduce the

3 (9m 35s):
spread and you know, what seems awkward at first quickly becomes normal and and I even take the example of our you know, social distancing. In here and maintaining a 6-foot separation between everybody. So the first time I was out for a walk and saw a neighbor and we kept our six foot buffer between us it felt funny. And now I don't even think twice about it. In fact, it's uncomfortable and awkward the other way. If someone gets too close you look at them and think are you not aware of the guidance here Norms can change pretty quick and I think that's what you've seen with other countries in terms of mask-wearing.

1 (10m 9s):
Well tell me personally since you're talking about your own experience. I have you started wearing. Mask to the grocery store yet, for example, or are you getting your groceries delivered?

3 (10m 18s):
Yeah, I have started wearing a mask and it but I want to be really clear here that I think the science supports the use of masks but this cannot be we're a situation where the public wears masks that are intended for the healthcare system. So when I say wear a mask, I wear something that's homemade over my nose and mouth. So I'm using a bandana at the moment. We have to walk a fine line here in the messaging. Asks work I think the evidence is clear there when they're done right and worn correctly. But if that message gets out without the second message following right behind it that the public cannot go out and start buying mass then it becomes a disaster.

3 (10m 59s):
So my message is that masks should be worn but right now they should be homemade masks.

1 (11m 11s):
I have one and 95 mask. I've It since like last year when I bought it for when I do like work around the house, please Don't Judge Me

3 (11m 18s):
people at this point. I think people would take anything maybe look for a doctor nurse health care worker delivery person your neighborhood offered up for them and go ahead and make yourself a homemade mask and I can walk through the details about that a bit more if you want.

1 (11m 32s):
Yeah, let's do that after we take a little break here we have to do an ad in the middle of our

3 (11m 36s):
show. That sounds all

2 (11m 37s):
right.

4 (11m 40s):
These are really simple. They're just kind of a pleated mask and then they've got of course the elastic bands to hook around your ears. They take I want to say about five or so minutes to make one of these but I'm sure can you come up until 1906 it off game number animals. You say Hannah stretchy yet name but Attica, she's the books turkey blossoms. Okay, so I'm going to do something that I just saw online so that in case you run out of mask you can use somebody's mail. We're so you take some boxers like these. Okay, make sure they're snug fit boxers. You're going to put your head through the leg pull itself. Then you twist it in the back like so wait around and cover up your head.

4 (12m 43s):
This is Advertiser content climate change the global Refugee crisis cybercrime. The big issues are huge and we're just a notification away from more bad news. It's leading to something called headline stress disorder and the first notable spike in stress in a decade and a decade ago. We were knee-deep in a global recession. So why does scrolling through a Newsfeed leave us feeling powerless anxious even afraid we just get a little tired of seeing Some of the worst things that happen on the planet and then walking away that's journalist Nellie for her diet host of course correction a podcast presented by Doha debates and Qatar Foundation.

4 (13m 23s):
Now offer is part of a new generation of journalists who see the news as an opportunity to empower whether it's me trying to figure out how globalization has affected people where I'm from and I've want to stand in Kabul or challenging myself to figure out how much data and information I put out on the web. AB it's focused on trying to get the reality of these big gigantic problems down to an individual level because focusing on what we can solve decreases stress and improves mental health. Every single accomplishment is just it just makes you feel better. I'm hoping course correction is a little bit of shock to the system to make people realize the impact that we have be a part of the conversation for change.

4 (14m 9s):
Listen to course correction wherever you get your podcast. Hey, it's Kara Swisher. You may know me as the only person who looks cool wearing sunglasses indoors. But in my spare time, I host a podcast called Rico decode every week. We talk about power change in the people. You need to know around Tech and Beyond some of my recent guests include Edward Snowden Megan Rapinoe and the cast of The L Word which was a huge thrill for me. If any of these sound interesting to you, you should listen them now on Rico decode subscribe to the show for free on Apple podcast or in your favorite podcast app to be the first to hear. Your new interviews every

1 (14m 44s):
week. Joe tell me exactly what a mask does for you when you put one on what are you avoiding? Are you avoiding putting something out in the world or getting something back or

3 (15m 2s):
both? There's four different benefits that I see and and also we have to be clear about what Mass we're talking about here. I'm talking about the regular surgical masks a dust mask or even a homemade mask made out of a T-shirt or something like

1 (15m 14s):
that. So you are not talking about an n95 mask for example,

3 (15m 19s):
right? So the n95 mask, this is a professional Mass. This is what you see. That most health care workers would be using in an ideal situation the 95 designation comes because it blocks 95% of the Airborne particles. And what I'm talking about here is our Mass just for the general public a homemade mask that can be effective in four different

1 (15m 39s):
ways. Tell me about them. What are the four

3 (15m 46s):
first and foremost, you know, having a mask on your face helps you prevent getting other sick if your infectious. We time you cough or sneeze you're projecting that out that could land on Services it can land on somebody Jason to you. So the math blocks that and importantly it's not just for people who are symptomatic right? We know that this virus can be spread and people are asymptomatic. So as a general precaution, we could all be wearing this not knowing if we're transmitting it but it helps if we do have a cough or sneeze that were not spreading this out. So that's the first one second wait helps use it helps you from other people now an n95. Mask provides a layer of protection that's much greater than we would get from a homemade mask still the homemade mask does block some of the larger droplets if someone sneeze near you and it does create a little bit of a barrier for smaller particles that can float and they can float around that mask.

3 (16m 40s):
But the idea here is that something is better than nothing. Okay. Third I think it's really important that it serves as a reminder to you the wearer not to touch your nose or your mouth as if you happen to pick up some virus from a doorknob that somebody else touched and then touch your own eyes your nose your face wearing a mask is a reminder not to do that good. And last I think is one of the most important is that it serves as a social cue. It's a reminder when you're out there that something big is happening around us and we're taking And should be taking precautions and what might seem awkward at first.

3 (17m 21s):
I sense will be could really quickly be seen as somewhat of a badge of honor. It's telling me I care about everybody else. I'm wearing this. I don't want to get you sick. So it becomes an important social cue.

1 (17m 36s):
I think people have a lot of questions about the first and second benefits that you talked about specifically how much a scarf or a bandana serves as a means to protect yourself from these respiratory droplets that can get you infected versus an actual n95 mask that's well-fitted. Is it a useful substitute or are all these homemade options? I saw one video online of a lady taking a pair of like men's. Boxer briefs and really quickly turning it into a face mask and it looked impressive but I just wondered does that work?

3 (18m 12s):
Yeah, it's a good question and we have to be clear that that it doesn't work as well as an n95 and one that's been fit tested or surgical masks. And so the idea here is we're throwing everything we can at this to limit the spread of disease and to be very clear Mass should not be the only thing we're doing right. It's not a substitute for everything else. It's just one more layer of Defense. We still have to wash our hands. We still have to say six feet away from each other. We should still be staying home all the time. We should only be going out for groceries occasionally or things that are true Necessities. So it's not the the solution we wear one of these homemade Mass made out of boxer shorts and then we can just go about returning to our normal lives.

3 (18m 52s):
That's just not the case and then so certainly the type of material you choose and the construction of the homemade mask is going to influence how effective it can be. There's some studies showing that you use a hundred percent cotton a t-shirt. Right? Most of us have a T-shirt around the house can be pretty effective at capturing particles again, not as good as commercial mask but certainly better than nothing

1 (19m 15s):
and we know that you know, six feet away is the best safety measure for social distancing. But how long can these droplets remain on surfaces? Is it a range depending on the surface? How careful do we have to be when we go to the grocery store and we touch a box of cereal and then maybe decide not to get it. Should we be wearing gloves in those moments, too?

3 (19m 36s):
Yeah, so you have to think about the different modes of transmission here, right if you sneeze or cough, you get large droplets some of which you might be able to see some of which you don't but they're heavy enough to kind of settle out pretty quick within that six most within that six foot buffer some of that can contaminate a surface that can then be a point of transference to somebody else. We call that a faux might that certain inanimate object that can that can host the virus for a little bit until somebody else comes along and picks it up. And then third we have these smaller aerosol. So when you cough or sneeze you admitted entire Continuum of particles and some can float around a little bit so, you know, I think it's worth first talking about these different ways we can get the virus because that then informs the strategies how we control and minimize risk in different environments including at the grocery store

1 (20m 22s):
does the six feet away thing. Does it actually prevent you from getting close to these Airborne droplets? Can they get farther than that if the winds carrying them a certain way how how close do you have to be to an infected person? Actually get

3 (20m 36s):
exposed. Yeah, it's a great question by saying winds we can talk about outdoor but also in door where it's slightly different, right? So the idea of staying six feet away protects you from large droplets which tend to settle out but it also protects you from the smaller aerosols that dispersed and can be airborne because you know these dispersed to so like anything else. You don't want to be that close my friend and colleague Lindsay Mar, Virginia Tech likes to describe it similar to how you think about someone who's smoking when they He'll write the it's stronger more concentrated right near them and a few feet away. It's a little less and 10 feet away. Maybe you don't even notice it. So the same thing is happening with particles or viral particles that somebody exhales.

3 (21m 17s):
So the idea of staying six feet away is protective against the large droplets, but also against the finer aerosols that can float around and stay in the air for longer times, you know Outdoors less of a problem where you have wind and full dilution indoors. It becomes a little more

1 (21m 33s):
interesting and how long can it stay on. A surface indoors

3 (21m 37s):
well in the air can stay you know for a couple hours. But again, it should it'll be dilute. So the more time and with air exchange fresh air coming in and out right as the house breathes as it normally does it dilutes. So that's good and on surfaces the virus can survive up to 24 hours on cardboard for example, but they are again it's also over time. It's diminishing quickly. This is why you know, I wrote an article recently in the Washington Post talking about the risks from Receiving a package or going grocery shopping and I described the risks as low and manageable because you know by the time you receive a package if anything was on it, there's a time lag until you receive it and even in the worst case driver coming up delivering an Amazon package sneezes right on your box right before they hand it to you and that person is infectious and it's shedding a high viral load and you take that box.

3 (22m 29s):
You can still take some simple steps to protect yourself. It doesn't have to be this anxiety producing feet, right? You can put that box down. Let it sit outside or if you have to bring it inside your house. Just put it right down inside the door. Let it sit for a couple hours. And again, the virus goes away and becomes less of a problem and then you wash your hands. So, you know some simple precautions in later. If you open up that box open it up take the box recycling outside wash your hands again. And in that way you start to disrupt the the causal chain, right the presence of a virus on any kind of surface alone will not get you sick. It's whether that transference happens. And the way to break that chain is being careful in washing your hands.

1 (23m 10s):
What I'm getting here. Is that what's really important right now for Americans and people across the world is to just take all of these precautions in concert is stay six feet away. Social distance stay at home wash your hands don't touch your face. And when you go out cover your face be it with a mask or whatever. You've got at home a bandana a scarf some men's Boxer briefs hopefully new I guess what I wonder then is why didn't the CEC just come out and say that in the first place

3 (23m 44s):
it's fluid and they're trying to give the Gap the best guidance and I think you had it exactly right. I'm here trying to throw up as many barriers as you can to getting this virus or getting infected and so it's this all in approach. You're exactly right. It's cleaning services washing hands is covering your cough it staying six feet away from people in your home. It's opening Windows let in more fresh air. So, you know, it's Of these strategies and right now do we know which one works best? No, will we ever maybe but probably not and also it doesn't really matter. None of these are so onerous or so burdensome that you would choose one and say well I have a mask on I guess I don't need to wash my hands. There's no such thing as zero risk. And so the ultimate goal here is just to minimize

1 (24m 25s):
risk Joe. Thank you so much and thanks for making time for us from your office / car.

3 (24m 30s):
Yeah. Yeah likewise from your closet as a nice to join you.

1 (24m 34s):
Yeah. Joe Allen is a professor at Harvard School of Public Health. He's also the author of a brand new book called healthy buildings how indoor spaces drive performance and productivity. I'm Shawn Rama's firm. This is today explain from the VOX media podcast Network. Liz Nelson is vaux's editorial director of podcast the today explain team includes Bridget McCarthy a film Shapiro Halima Shah Jillian Weinberger. No MM hassenfeld in

2 (25m 7s):
I'm gonna

1 (25m 7s):
all sorry Celia laid checks are facts and the Mysterious brake master cylinder provides a lot of our Bops, but this bop is of course by the legendary Bill Withers today. We found out that bills life ended on Monday. His family said it was due to Heart complications Lean on Me is probably the first favorite song I ever had. I remember my dad playing it when I was four years old and asking him to play it again. And again, it seems like the perfect song for this moment. So We had to play it today Bill didn't give a lot of interviews later in his life. But he granted a rare one to Anna sale and her podcast Death Sex and Money it became the very first episode of that show that sex and money and they put the conversation at the top of their feet today to celebrate bills life.

1 (25m 54s):
Look for Death Sex and Money and give it a listen.

2 (26m 2s):
We all have pain we all have sorrow. Lean On Me When You're Not Strong and I'll be somebody.

2 (26m 51s):
Swallow your pride.