0 (1s):
Today, finally, McDonald's through open the doors to its first restaurant in Moscow and make no mistake. This was an event of major gastronomical proportions.

1 (11s):
If you'd been watching the news that January day in 1990, you might've wondered why everyone was being so extra about a Mickey D's

2 (19s):
Feast in the time of play the words of Alexander Pushkin. Russia's greatest poet on this square that bears his name and statue Pushkin. Now contemplates MacDonald.

1 (29s):
This was the start of a new era of globalization. American brands and culture would soon be found all over the world and products from China and Mexico would become ubiquitous in the U S. This was how we lived for 30 years. Then in February with global supply chains already shattered by the pandemic, Russia invaded Ukraine, and McDonald's decided it had had enough coming up on today, explained what McDonald's exit west tells us about the future of globalization.

3 (59s):
What does that people have internet I'm Marquez, Brownlee, AK MKBHD. And I just want to quickly tell you about my podcast way form. So I've been making tech review videos on YouTube for over a decade. And through the years I've gotten my hands on some pretty cool jaw dropping tech on wave form, along with my co-host Andrew manga, Nelly, we take a more, in-depth look at some of the most recent bleeding edge tech out today. We covered the crazy stuff that you don't see every day, like camera, robot, arms, and rollable TVs. But we also covered everyday tech like spark phones, laptops, and like the influx of EVs that seem to come out what feels like every other week, all that stuff. So if you want to stay up to date with the latest tech and internet news, you can find us on Spotify, apple podcasts, or anywhere you listen. See you there

1 (1m 45s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king McDonald's was in Russia because of globalization, the flow of people and money and ideas and stuff all around the world. It's meant to be a good thing. Your country produces the things that it's best at producing and exports them, and it imports what it can't make cheaply, and then came the pandemic and Russia's war in Ukraine, both of which have some very smart people asking is globalization changing.

5 (2m 12s):
We were really keen to come up with a new word that captured the idea. And I literally spent about five hours as have several people desperately scrapped to come up with some sorts of single words. And I'm afraid we actually fail. I'm sorry. It's telling you

1 (2m 29s):
Patrick fouls, his business affairs editor at the economist, the O G pro-free trade publication. Patrick, there is a long history.

5 (2m 40s):
You know, if you go back a long time, there was a burst of globalization before the first world war was set in the late 19th century and early 20th century. And then after the first world war and second world war really exploded that world completely. And in the ruins of the world in 1945, there was an attempt to rebuild connections between countries. And most of that, to be honest happened between rich Western countries. The big event really happened after the fall of the Berlin wall, the collapse of the Soviet union,

6 (3m 14s):
Mr. Gorbachev tear down this wallet.

5 (3m 18s):
And in the 1990s, you saw what some people call hyperglobalization begin. And that's when countries all around the world begin to become more connected. When Russia, China, India open up their economies and try and connect more with the west

7 (3m 36s):
China's economy has grown faster than that, of any other major country, a true heavyweight in international trade.

5 (3m 44s):
And for some time, really for the 1990s and much of the 2010s, that system was really very successful, integrating ever more closely. And in effect being something for global boom,

1 (4m 3s):
There was a moment when all of a sudden I and millions of other people became aware that everything I bought had a made in China sticker on it. And I wonder which countries became most economically dependent or most integrated with each other.

5 (4m 20s):
Typically it's countries with our next door neighbors. So America, you know, it's Canada, Mexico. If you were in Europe, it will be with Germany, France, Italy, Britain, et cetera. So those connections is still the strongest, but the big thing that's different is there are long distance relationships between the west and Asian manufacturing countries, particularly between the U S and China with China, obviously making a lot of stuff and America buying that stuff.

1 (4m 49s):
What were the links at that point? Let's say starting in the nineties, when you talk about globalization going into hyperdrive, the Berlin wall coming down, what were the economic links between the United States and Russia?

5 (5m 0s):
There was some trade in energy, pretty limited, but you'd be staggered by how small the connections were. I mean, obviously we're diplomatic links, but really the level of economic connections were minuscule. You had maybe one or two or a handful of Western consumer brands with a tiny presence in Russia.

1 (5m 21s):
What did it mean for McDonald's to open up in Moscow in 1990? Why didn't everyone make such a big deal out of that?

5 (5m 28s):
Well, I suppose McDonald's represents in a way everything that the Russian communists hated, right?

8 (5m 35s):
Muscovites are used to queuing up for something to eat. The difference at McDonald's is they promise there'll be something left when you get to the head of the line,

5 (5m 43s):
It's kind of junk food. It's easy, it's very homogenous. It kind of represents a particular parts of America. It seems <inaudible> trashier and better than whatever food they have lately, since it's sort of a bit of a kind of love, hate relationship, which I think we probably all have with McDonald's.

2 (6m 4s):
I don't like it at all. He said, it's not Russian

9 (6m 7s):
Beautiful. I expected more. I think

5 (6m 11s):
So for it to open up at the heart of Moscow where, you know, Stalin and Lenin had worked, not that far away was a really huge symbolic moment.

11 (6m 22s):
So cultural milestone, because we suspect the Soviets are about to learn what Westerners have known for years, that political systems com political systems go, but junk food is forever.

5 (6m 34s):
And I should add, it's still true now that when McDonald's opens or spreads in a country, it's very much a sort of symbol of it becoming more integrated, even now,

1 (6m 44s):
In fact, to your point, the writer Thomas Friedman had this thing called the golden arches theory of conflict prevention in the nineties. And the idea was

10 (6m 53s):
I go to countries that both have a McDonald's have ever fought a war against each other.

5 (6m 59s):
Yeah. I mean, behind his observation is kind of a really serious point essentially, it's that when countries are linked economically, when people have more contact with each other, when people jobs depend on what happens in another country, when your savings and investments are partly reliant on something happening in another country, when those connections are tighter, this theory went the odds of conflict go down that people have a bigger stake in keeping things, peaceful, keeping things stable. Now, there are many examples of this being true in history, but obviously there are many examples of it not being true, but I think what Thomas Friedman was arguing is in the 1990s, after decades of a cold war and a huge geopolitical tensions, a new, more promising year was a thing where you had America as the dominant power, the policemen of the world, and the prospect of everyone getting richer and more prosperous through trading and getting more economically connected.

1 (8m 6s):
And wasn't there also an idea, Patrick, that as countries got richer and more open and more integrated, they would also get freer. There would be more world democracies.

5 (8m 17s):
Yes. And if you read or study that people who were running the Soviet union, as it collapsed and try to sort of see the future of that country in the very early 1990s, I mean, they really did many of them believe that we've become, you know, like Europe like America. And similarly, when China began to open up, certainly a big chunk of people felt the ultimate direction was not just that it would embrace McDonald's and Starbucks and buy, you know, German cars and drink French wine, but that there would be political reform as well, that capitalism and democracy, or at least a more liberal political culture went hand in hand And in fact, one writer famously called it the end of history.

5 (9m 15s):
You know, when everyone wanted to be capitalist and democratic,

13 (9m 19s):
The brilliant young American political scientist Francis Fukiyama argued that the end of communism might press each what he called the end of history. He added a question mark in the original version

1 (9m 32s):
And then comes February of this year and Russia, invades Ukraine, and among other global brands, McDonald's says we are leaving Russia.

14 (9m 42s):
It's a wrap for McDonald's in Russia. After 30 years, the company will be shutting its doors because of the Russia Ukraine conflict.

1 (9m 51s):
Is that moment in 2022 symbolic or significant, or is it both?

5 (9m 58s):
I think it's very, I mean, it really sort of captures how things have changed and, you know, what's happened in Russia is Western countries have left either because the sanctions imposed by Europe and America have forced them to leave, or they voluntarily left because they think it's a moral war. The customers in the west will not forgive them. So in the case of McDonald's, a local firm has taken over the first original McDonald's branch in Moscow and reopened it under the name tasty. And that's it. And essentially is now sort of operating independently.

15 (10m 33s):
The customers we spoke to were loving it. Usually what I seen in Russians can do fast food just as well Raviel tells me. And as for Western sanctions and global brands leaving Russia, we are very tough people. You can't scare us.

5 (10m 48s):
So yes, I think it is a really big symbolic moment when McDonald's leaves Moscow just as it was when it arrived in Moscow.

1 (10m 56s):
Right. And the owners of tasty and that's, it decided they didn't need to be McDonald's Russia has hamburger meat, it has potatoes, it has chicken. What was that telling us about globalization?

5 (11m 6s):
Well, I think you'll find is that a lot of what McDonald's buys is bought locally anyway. So, you know, really what's global about McDonald's is the brand, the standards, the quality control, the menu innovations and the trading of the staff. And so, so can you do with that, that, I guess is the question you're asking? I think probably you'll find that in five or 10 years, the Russian cloud of McDonald's is awful compared to McDonald's itself. So, you know, we can all probably with some help from our friends, you know, run a restaurant for a week without everything collapsing.

5 (11m 50s):
But if we have to run a restaurant empire for a decade, that's when the difference between, you know, the leading company in the world at doing that, and the local pretenders will become very clear would be my prediction.

1 (12m 1s):
I think your prediction is right. I was reading that tasty and that's, it ran out of potatoes because of supply chain issues. And then the buns got moldy and customers were trying to take pictures of the buns, and then they ban the customers from taking pictures. So like the dream of globalization bringing freedom in the case of Russia, it did not come true.

5 (12m 25s):
Yeah. I mean, it may be the promise of McDonald's and Russia did come true in the sense that they had a good product that people liked, but the wider political sort of symbolism of their arrival has obviously gone horribly wrong with Russia, going in a very, very different direction from what people hoped it would do in the early 1990s

1 (12m 53s):
Coming up on today explained, so are we not doing globalization anymore?

Into It: A Vulture Podcast with Sam Sanders on Apple Podcasts (13m 2s):
And let me tell you two truths of life, there are no bad Bruno Mars songs, and there are no bad Katy Perry songs. They don't exist. These are extreme. The thing In, and that is what I do. I would say there are phenomenal Katy Perry songs would also say they're a terrible case. So worst Katie parasol, you're wrong. It's good. Hey, I'm Sam Sanders and I'm hosting a new culture podcast. It's called Intuit from vulture in New York magazine each week on the show, we'll get into the pop culture that we just can't stop thinking about like the Chainsmokers song that became a pro-choice Anthem on Tik TOK, or why comedy specials got so serious or yeah, honestly, I don't even know how to explain this one. Does his poop also time travel? What about his saliva Into it? The weekly culture podcast from vulture launching July 28th, subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

Unexplainable podcast (14m 4s):
I thought <inaudible> this, This week's episode of unexplainable is all about the world's most powerful space telescope, which is already showing us things we just couldn't see before At <inaudible> Decker lodge liftoff to the edge of time itself, James Webb begins a voyage back to the birth of the universe. Web represents the culmination of decades. If not centuries of astronomy, It will give us a view of parts of the universe we've never seen before. Things that Fundamentally changed the way that we understand the universe And the episode you'll hear from scientists to have projects lined up for the web, looking for things like a lava planet, the first star light of the universe, and even life on other worlds. We see each Find it unexplainable, wherever you listen to podcasts

1 (15m 22s):
It's today explained Patrick fouls of the economist. I have a very specific memory from 1999. There were protests in Seattle and I was a teenager and I did not really know what was going on, but what I heard over and over and over again was that people in Seattle were really angry about globalization. When did the pushback start?

5 (15m 42s):
One of the things to remember about globalizations implies change and disruption, right? And if you think about bill Clinton's presidency, you know, in the 1990s, a lot of what his political project was was to reassure ordinary working people that they could cope with this new world, that it wouldn't see them lose their jobs, get poorer Jews, the foreign competition,

30 (16m 5s):
Good jobs, rewarding careers, broadened horizons for the middle-class Americans can only be secured by expanding exports in global growth.

5 (16m 13s):
So I think the seeds of some of the mistrust and concern, well then there were these big protests movements by the late 1990s, but really things didn't in terms of the backlash get full momentum. I think until China began to be a really big presence, which was after I joined the world trade organization 2001, and that's all the scale of China's trade and exports really get significantly bigger.

27 (16m 44s):
I add in China to the WTO, we strengthen the organization by further integrating China's 1.2 billion people in $1 trillion economy into the world market network.

5 (16m 56s):
And then in almost every country, the concern arising that the jobs would be lost to factories and manufacturing companies in China.

1 (17m 7s):
And there was something to their worry wasn't there.

5 (17m 11s):
The evidence very clearly is that globalization is incredibly powerful in terms of reducing poverty and improving the world. And that's because lots of very poor countries and Midland countries get the chance to integrate with richer economies to trade, to develop. But the cost is that there are clusters of people who typically in the west, see their jobs destroyed.

31 (17m 40s):
The numbers are clear. The U S government has certified that at least 700,000 Americans have lost their jobs due to changing trade flows, resulting from NAFTA

5 (17m 53s):
And originally economists. And politicians sort of said, well, you know, those people who lose their jobs they'll find different jobs because the economy will change. You know, so for example, in the U S there's less manufacturing on the other hand, tech and healthcare are much bigger than they used to be. The total number of jobs has gone up. So what's the problem. But actually what we discovered is if you live in one of those forgotten places, it's very, very difficult to escape. And that created pockets of deep anger and resentment across the west.

1 (18m 31s):
Right? And then in 2008, the word global was everywhere. Again, because of the global financial crisis. Did any countries start to integrate to say maybe globalization is not all it's cracked up to be. Let's do some of this stuff at home.

5 (18m 45s):
Yeah. I mean, we've, we've looked at this at the economist and we've used the tone, slow mobilization to describe what happened. And that's when you began to see the level of corporate globalization slowed down really sharply.

1 (19m 1s):
And then on the political side, you have figures like Donald Trump and Boris Johnson, who seemed to be speaking directly to people who've been hurt by globalization and winning them over.

5 (19m 12s):
And that didn't really get to prime time until of course you have Brexit in, in Britain

32 (19m 17s):
And we won't have country back. We don't want it run by the EEO, which in my eyes, very corrupt and sort of like a dictatorship,

5 (19m 30s):
The election of Donald Trump,

30 (19m 32s):
The future does not belong to globalists. The future belongs to Patriots.

1 (19m 38s):
And then we had the pandemic and then we had Russia's war in Ukraine.

5 (19m 42s):
What if you live in the last few years, there's been three shocks. So one is the pandemic, which has caused chaos and supply chains. And, you know, we've all experienced empty supermarket shelves, the cost of things, getting up big delays in buying stuff. The other is China. So China has decisively turned away from political liberalization and it's now in the hands of a clearly autocratic and in liberal and in some ways dangerous political regime. And then the last thing is the war in Ukraine. So all of that, there's three sort of shocks of the last few years.

5 (20m 23s):
I think I've finally tipped most companies over the edge. So these supply chain shocks, we think of knocked about one central of global GDP. That's a really, really big number to my mind, after a decade of swung realization. We're now in a totally different things where companies are actively seeking to redesign how the supply chains work. But really good example is Intel.

8 (20m 51s):
That's Intel, the computer inside.

5 (20m 55s):
If you get, go back Intel before the 1990s was kind of an all American company that made semiconductors, the chips and side devices, and it was pretty us centric. And then in the age of hyper globalization, it began to outsource a lot of production to Asia, particularly Taiwan,

33 (21m 16s):
And 1990, 80% of semiconductors were built in us in Europe today, 80% in Asia,

5 (21m 24s):
9 1, 1 sampling is Intel says it wants to bring it home and it's redesigning how it works and building these huge factories in America actually we'll send in in Europe. And the whole idea is to reduce the reliance on Asia, China, Taiwan, where the geopolitical risks of high and bring supply chains closer to home where they're more reliable and safe, where at least this is the claim and the amounts of money Intel is spending, or jaw-dropping

34 (21m 59s):
Intel is going to be investing billions of dollars in a pair of new plants for chips in Ohio.

5 (22m 4s):
The other area just to mention quickly is energy. So the wall where Vladimir Putin has used the threat of cutting off your managing as a weapon, I think has decisively changed attitudes in Europe. And there's not a huge scramble to try and shut down and reliance on Russia. The real problem is like, where else do you go? And in the short term, Europe's having to pay much more to buy, for example, gas from the middle east. But the long one hope here is that as the world shifts to renewable power. So the hydro and wind that some of these problems begin to fade away because in most cases that renewable energy will be created and generated at home lowering the dependence countries have hostile energy supplies.

1 (22m 58s):
I wonder if you can do a thought experiment for me. So in 10 years, if the world continues with its skepticism of globalization and begins to pull back a little bit or a lot, what might my ordinary American life look like? How might it be different than it is today?

5 (23m 16s):
Yeah, I mean, I th I think there are kind of two different parts. One is this a kind of rational adjustment to deal with? Some of the problems we've been talking about, which probably means that the pattern of globalization more regional, the links with really well-suited regimes are smaller, but in essence, the world stays out. The worst case scenario is obviously that the world begins to break there's economic links as the 1930s, that, that intensifies political tensions around the world, and actually needs to work particularly with the U S China. I think that is a possibility.

5 (23m 59s):
You just take the idea of America kind of cussing itself off more from a world, doing more hope superficially. I think that might be comforting. You buy American brands, there's less competition. You know, the world is more familiar, but I think ultimately it's far less attractive and that's because there'd be less choice. It would be more expensive. I think it would be more boring, have less of floated by ideas and with things and original things and cool new things and inventions and phase of people to kind of land safer possibly, but more expensive and more uniform.

5 (24m 48s):
Well, and in a way, you kind of, in some respects, that's the fifties sixties where I think you probably in America have a more secure social contract that is particularly viewer, you know, a white worker at a welding company, but in other ways it was a much more kind of stale of one-dimensional. Well, I think the optimistic view is we go from maximum globalization to three quarters, globalization, and some of the excesses problems, risks dangers are dealt with.

5 (25m 28s):
So underlying connectivity that links economies of people around the world is still there and not going to retreat. Any fun

1 (25m 46s):
Today's show was produced by Avishai artsy and edited by Matthew Colette. It was fact-checked by Laura Bullard and Tori Domingas and it was engineered by Paul mousey. I'm Noel king it's today explained,

16 (26m 31s):
Well, what are you still doing here?

1 (26m 35s):
Haven't been fired yet.

16 (26m 38s):
That's not going no. What I meant was this is like coming at the end of the show. And here we are, we don't usually talk at the end of the, but we're here with an important message.

1 (26m 46s):
Well, we're here with an important ask.

Vox (26m 48s):
That's one of the ways that this show gets made is with listener contributions. People given us a couple bucks here and there to help the show out. And we're not just talking about this show. We're talking about Vox is great video explainers, the stuff that box does on texts, the stuff that you see from Vox all over your, your streaming services and your podcast platforms, you can support that journalism and help keep it free for everyone By going to vox.com/give. Thank you. Thanks.