1 (8s):
You've heard about the phone call. You've skimmed the partial transcript, but maybe this whole time you've just wanted to hear the president say it and today is your day. So I would say that president solinsky. for me we commend that they start an investigation into the visors because

2 (29s):
nobody has any doubt that they weren't per kid. That was a crooked deal a hundred

1 (34s):
percent. Yeah, that's the sound of the presidents of the United States asking a foreign country to help take down his political rival from the south lawn of the White House. No less an impeachment inquiry is evidently not enough to deter President Donald Trump from what he really wants dirt on Joe and Hunter Biden from Ukraine likewise China, she started investigation into the Bison because what happened in China is just about as bad as what happened with Up with Ukraine. We called Daria Colony Ark in Kiev to find out what it's like for ukrainians to find themselves in the center of an American impeachment Scandal.

2 (1m 23s):
I'm executive director of the anti-corruption action center.

1 (1m 26s):
And what does that mean?

2 (1m 28s):
We are doing Watchdog work our government and our authorities. We exposed corruption and we advocate for change.

1 (1m 35s):
I asked her to tell me as best she could how this mess with Hunter Biden and Ukraine Got Started. It's very important to talk about corruption. If you don't talk about corruption, why would you give money to a country that you think is is corrupt

2 (1m 51s):
five years ago. We had people protesting against a secretive regime of Viktor Yanukovych.

1 (1m 57s):
She said we had to begin with Ukraine's former president in 2014. Ukrainians sick of corruption revolted

2 (2m 7s):
Viktor Yanukovych the president ran away, too. Russian and immediately after that we started focusing on asset recovery of proceeds of Corruption of piano college. And this is time where I have started observing Buddhism will

1 (2m 24s):
respawn is the leading independent exploration and production company operating in the Ukrainian oil and gas market you might recall Purisima as the company that gave Hunter Biden a cushy gig

2 (2m 38s):
but he's another company is owned by former minister of natural resources of Viktor Yanukovych. And criminal investigation against Breeze man was crucially important in order to recover millions of dollars, which mcculloh apps key looted from

1 (2m 58s):
Ukraine. Purisima is basically Ukrainian for shady gasoline

2 (3m 5s):
in April 2014. Twenty-three point five million dollars were seized by British law enforcement officers at the accounts of this company in order to recover this assets to Ukraine British law enforcement needed evidence that this money are of illicit origin and this evidence has to be produced by Ukrainian law enforcement agency where Victor shocking the tough prosecutor who Giuliana likes and President Trump likes had to deliver this

1 (3m 38s):
evidence shokan. Is this prosecutor Trump likes to say Biden had fired to benefit his son Hunter even though There's no evidence of

2 (3m 48s):
that and there was no will and no desire under the leadership of Victor shocking to pursue the case and to develop the case. It was obvious for everyone who wanted to help Ukraine to recover assets that Victor shocking was dumping this investigation. And therefore we were protesting we were doing many rallies in front of for shocking office and in front of buildings of the president of Ukraine demanding resignation of Victor

1 (4m 18s):
shot. Turns out a lot of ukrainians wanted shokan

2 (4m 26s):
fired. I was protesting many other organizations were protesting. We are here now to ask our president. What the hell going

1 (4m 34s):
on Cal Anouk leads an anti-corruption Watchdog. NGO will not allow him to maintain the

2 (4m 41s):
Soviet system of prosecution which intimidate people and then afterwards Joe Biden came,

1 (4m 50s):
this is the Genesis of the Trump conspiracy right here Vice President, Joe Biden went to Kiev to help the new government. You have to fight the cancer of corruption

2 (5m 2s):
and ask president poroshenko to fire shocking because he was considered by everyone as very corrupt person who dumped many investigations including the case. And the reason I'm telling you not getting a billion dollars. I said, you're not getting the billion. I'm going to be leaving here. I think it was what six hours I look as I'm leaving in 6 hours at the prosecutors not fired. You're not getting the money and that's what we were so happy that Joe Biden came and actually made it very tough condition that either you present version of fire chucking or there will be no Financial 8 1 billion Financial

1 (5m 37s):
8 thus far there's just no evidence that this had anything to do with Biden's son. This was about getting rid of a device. Ukrainian prosecutor Victor shokan.

2 (5m 49s):
So when I read the transcript of the phone call between President Trump and president the Lansky and that phone call. I heard that there was a very good guy tough prosecutor shocking. I couldn't believe that because shocking was actually the example of one of the worst prosecutors we had and who was intimidating good people is in his agency who was dumping investigations including Breeze my investigation. So I was embarrassed to have President of the United States sent in such a credit to such a corrupt prosecutor, but I understand so actually now why he was doing that.

2 (6m 34s):
It's a case that is crying out to be investigated. If it doesn't get investigated, we just don't have equal justice in this country and it was the narrative coming from do Nonny Rudy Giuliani.

1 (6m 46s):
Rudy loves this conspiracy.

2 (6m 49s):
Biden's son took millions of dollars out of the Ukraine. Well, Joe Biden is vice president and Joe bragged two years later that he got the prosecutor General fired. He just left out of it that the prosecutor General was investigating his son and his son's crooked boss. That's the conspiracy theory, which was presented by Rudy Giuliani needs shocking who wanted to investigate Breeze mama.

1 (7m 22s):
Jokin, it appears was not terribly interested in investigating. Very smart.

2 (7m 28s):
And here is where the conspiracy theory from Rudy Giuliani falls apart.

1 (7m 36s):
So this White House conspiracy theory must seem kind of insane to ukrainians who thought shokan was totally corrupt who thought briefs. Mama was totally corrupt.

2 (7m 48s):
Most of the ukrainians don't understand what is happening and they don't understand how American system works but I couldn't believe that the president of the United States called the president of Ukraine asking to interfere into work of law enforcement agency in Ukraine because this is something that we are trying to change in Ukraine for the last five years. The idea behind our anti-corruption efforts is that law enforcement and judicial system in Ukraine has to be free from political interference and free from all the garlic interference and the United States was our key partner in this work.

2 (8m 37s):
So it was very depressing for me to read that phone call transcript.

1 (8m 42s):
I think we hear a lot about Trump Stone and his tactics during that call. How did you feel about President zelinsky's tone and and his approach to dealing with President

2 (8m 50s):
Trump. I was disappointed as well. He was trying to agree with everything President Trump was telling to him and there was only one message from him which I can understand. He asked for help in war with Russia. He asked for javelins as he at that time already understood that there's something wrong is military 8 which was scheduled to Son to Ukraine, but was stopped at certain

1 (9m 20s):
moment right president zelinski was in this awkward position because he needs something from President Trump and we kind of saw him in that awkward position again last week at the United Nations General Assembly when they gave this joint press conference, and he was asked if he was pressured by President Trump in front of President Trump, and he said no because of course he had to say no. No you who are that we had I think good phone call. It was normal. We spoke about many things and I so I think and you already that nobody push it push me.

1 (9m 60s):
Yes. I know. It was no pressure

2 (10m 2s):
the way how he said that the UN assembly was very telling because first he

1 (10m 7s):
said, I'm sorry, but I don't want to be involved too. We were in elections elections of USA.

2 (10m 18s):
I think that prisons and Lansky was trying to avoid taking and picking sides in American political bottle Ukrainian journalists and Ukrainian citizens care about war and how to end war and Achieve. Peace. And this is the key topic now in Ukraine. It's like we are living in parallel worlds. Yeah, so the perception of this candle in the United States and in Ukraine is absolute different because we have different problems you have where you have Trump and presents Lansky to end War he had to deal up with Trump so I can understand him

1 (11m 3s):
more on that war in a minute. This is today

2 (11m 7s):
explained.

1 (11m 27s):
Here's a fun fact for your dinner conversation tonight. If all the world's billionaires formed a country. It would be the eighth largest economy in the world. There are more billionaires right now than there have ever been and on the latest episode of Fox's Netflix series explained they're gonna explain how globalization and capitalism made that happen for someone with you know, just two billion dollars a trip on a private jet is like taking a New York City subway ride a Lamborghini is like buying a little bicycle and buying a private island is like a down payment on a house billionaires. There are so relatable find out other ways billionaires are relatable in the latest episode of Fox's Netflix series explained you can just search for it on Netflix, or you can go to netflix.com slash explained.

1 (12m 30s):
Dario tell me about the conflict between Ukraine and Russia right now.

2 (12m 35s):
There is not a conflict there is war. Russia occupied Ukrainian territories specifically Russia occupied in 2014 Crimea the peninsula in the Black Sea. It's a huge territory in Ukraine and decided that it's now Russia not Ukraine, it violated all International standards and International Peace order second Russia occupied also parts of Ukrainian territories on the east of Ukraine where they are providing military assistance weapon, and sometimes even soldiers to the group of people's whom they call

1 (13m 19s):
Rebels and they started taking over government buildings setting up their own sort of independent republic.

2 (13m 28s):
And these people are shooting everyday into that territory of Ukraine, which is controlled by Ukrainian military soldiers are literally dying in this war. We have 1 million internally displaced people who lived in this occupied territories, but had to run away from their homes. Mr. Trump began supplying weapons to Ukraine two years ago in its fight against russian-backed separatists. The war there now is in its sixth year with thousands dead and no signs of an end in sight.

1 (14m 3s):
What is Russia's goal here to just acquire as much territory as a can

2 (14m 7s):
a russian goal is to control Ukraine and prevent Ukraine from succeeding as the independent state where democracy is flourishing where there are jobs where there are investments were there is rule of law with there is no corruption because if Ukraine will be successful. Then there is a huge danger for entire Russian Empire to collapse and there will be huge danger for Putin and Kremlin to lose its power. So Russia trees Ukraine is the younger brother they have to control and that Ukraine doesn't have right to decide where to go.

1 (14m 49s):
So how important is the United States is relationship with Ukraine right? Now. How important is US military aid, which President Trump was held in Ukraine's war with Russia.

2 (14m 60s):
This is of existential importance. Because we need military eight financial aid and weapon in order to make sure that our soldiers are able to defend our territory and second. We need strong political backup and support from the United States who guaranteed our Serenity back in 1994 and Ukraine voluntarily gave up all its nuclear weapon in exchange for guarantees from the United States United Kingdom and Russia that our Serenity and territory will be protected.

2 (15m 40s):
If someone attacks us

1 (15m 42s):
Ukraine's decision will permit the United States Russia and the United Kingdom to extend formal security assurances to Ukraine,

2 (15m 50s):
but out of these three guarantors Russia attacked us and occupied our territories. And we rely now on the United Kingdom and the United States to help us defend our territory and fight back. Therefore. It is important that the United States keeps sanctions against Russian regime and against Russian oligarchs and against the Russian economy. It is important that the United States is not let in Russia back to the international organizations like the seventh. It's the group of states were Russia used to be but it was kicked off to 7 because of war in Ukraine and the world most recent messages from President Trump that Russia has to be returned to G8.

2 (16m 36s):
It's come up should we put Russia back in we spend a lot of time talking about Russia at those

1 (16m 42s):
meetings and they're not there. I think it would be a good thing if Russia were there do ukrainians feel like that. The u.s. Support is now flagging under President Trump because he wants to have a friendly relationship with Putin.

2 (16m 56s):
Ukrainians are very much disappointed his every leader on the west who thinks that it is possible to talk to Putin and it is possible to be friends with Putin because Putin understands only language of power.

1 (17m 12s):
I can see that has this whistleblower scandal in the United States affected directly Ukraine's war with

2 (17m 19s):
Russia. It has direct impact because in order to win war with Russia, we need bipartisan support of the United States. And right now there are negotiations actually on the possible peace deal on the occupied territories in Ukraine on the East and there is a risk that Ukraine could be forced to accept back this occupied territories provide an amnesty to terrorists which were murdering people and killing our soldiers and this could also trigger lifting sanctions. Russia

1 (17m 56s):
so in this pivotal moment for Ukraine and its war with Russia Awards killed something like 13,000 ukrainians according to the United Nations. The whole world is focused on a phone call President Trump had with your president. How's that feel?

2 (18m 17s):
So it's feels very bad. We feel lonely. We feel lonely and we cannot understand that everyone has its own interest but ukrainians how to mobilize ourselves and defend our country. But unfortunately, we didn't manage yet to build Ukraine as a strong country. We want to do that.

1 (18m 41s):
And the reason

2 (18m 42s):
why everyone not talks about this phone call and Ukrainian corruption is because we are fighting with corruption because we are exposing the networks of oligarchs and tycoons with ties to the United. But also his ties to Russia and they are fighting back but we need support and for many years United States was our key supporter. I hope that United States will continue to be the key supporter of Ukraine and Ukrainian reformers and I believe into American institutions which can resist interference and

1 (19m 21s):
presh. Daria Colin yoke is the executive director of the anti-corruption action center in Kiev Ukraine. I'm Sean Rama's firm and this is Ukraine explained.