1 (2s):
A poll about Americans' attitudes toward our government came out a few weeks back on first read. It's kind of hilarious. On second read. It's worrying. A majority of American voters writes the New York times. So is their poll across nearly all demographics and ideologies believe their system of government does not work. Some of them have coalesced into the new right they're skeptical of democracy, but wanna use government to achieve their ends.

2 (32s):
It might be scarier than fascism. It might be a kind of union of tech, billionaires, and anti Democrats and people who believe in sort of human hierarchy, creating an absolute surf du and dystopia that looks like nothing we've ever seen before.

1 (49s):
Coming up on today explained is the new right, the future of conservatism, or are they the other F word

0 (56s):
Fascists

Net Zero Emissions Commitment - Sustainability | Citi (1m 0s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg

1 (1m 50s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. James Pogue is a contributing editor at Harper's. He's a longform writer elsewhere. He wrote about the new right in vanity fair. And for that article, he spent a long time hanging out with and around new right figures asking for their vision of the United States. James, how do you define the new right?

2 (2m 10s):
The way I tend to define it? And there is no great definition is that it's halfway an attempt to turn the Republican party into something more nationalist, more. They often use the term Localist, more something along the lines of a right wing party in the mold of nationalist parties in Europe. Like the party led by Marine Lappen on the flip side, there's also a very sort of online, younger, less directly political wing of this that people call the dissident, right? That would be more like a kind of emerging intellectual sphere. That is a critique of liberal society at large, that is almost sort of looking past electoral politics towards what comes next after our society falls.

2 (2m 57s):
The new right is an insurgency within the right. And a lot of the people who, you know, are kind of big names, big dogs on the, on the new right, are gonna be very obscure to most people, because this is still like a kind of, you could say a wing of the American elite, a dissident as they like to think of themselves wing of the American elite. But the two that you're gonna have heard most about are JD Vance running for Senate from my home state of Ohio.

4 (3m 25s):
Now my views are clearly on the table. I do not think that America's greatest and most powerful economy was built by socialism, but I also don't believe it was built by what folks often call neoliberalism or classical liberalism. But I believe America's wealth was built by an American system,

2 (3m 41s):
Blake masters, who is running for Senate in Arizona

5 (3m 44s):
In a recent interview, masters blames gun violence on black people. His words,

6 (3m 49s):
If we do have a gun violence problem in this country and it's gang violence, people in Chicago St. Louis shooting each other very often, you know, black people, frankly,

2 (4m 0s):
Both of them were endorsed by Trump. Steve Bannon is kind of, let's say he's not new, right? But he's kind of in the new right. Ferment, let them call you

4 (4m 10s):
Racist.

2 (4m 11s):
Wear it as a badge of honor, he's somebody who's definitely sort of trafficking in these ideas and trying to figure out ways to get them into mainstream politics in such ways to make them successful

7 (4m 21s):
French national front leader Marine Lappen got support from former chief white house strategist, Steve

2 (4m 28s):
Bannon and Tucker Carlson.

8 (4m 29s):
The tech oligarchs joined forces to censor their political opponents. You may be one of them

2 (4m 34s):
Over time. Tucker has gotten much more bold about criticizing, not just politicians, not just Joe Biden, but like he criticizes tech. He criticizes globalism. He criticizes the very foundations of sort of what makes our society what it is today. And so you can kind of look for traffic between politics, such as you're seeing it out in the world and this kind of intellectual ferment through figures like that.

8 (4m 60s):
You don't endorse a lot of candidates on the show or get even too close to politicians. Cuz honestly most of 'em are really disappointing. They say they're gonna do one thing. They do another, but occasionally run to somebody who could actually change things that would be JD Vance.

1 (5m 16s):
Let's talk about the worldview we developed in the nineties, the Berlin wall came down and there's an idea that is democracy spread. So would free market spread. Everyone would get richer. Everyone would get freer. That idea seemed at the time to make sense. The new right is responding to that. How

2 (5m 37s):
They would have a very long response to that. I'm gonna try to do it quickly. They would say, first of all, that the process of globalization was sort of sold as a bill of goods that was gonna make all of our lives better. And that largely speaking it is enriched a very small connected kind of international, but sort of gravitating towards a certain set of elite institutions, elite schools, elite NGOs. It has benefited a very small elite who kind of need that process to keep going forward because you know, as we globalize, we're finding new and cheaper markets for our goods. We're finding new and cheaper markets for our labor. This quote unquote open borders, which is not a term I would personally use, but this sort of trend towards open borders is pushed forward in the name of progress and liberalism and, and a more open and, and fair society.

2 (6m 29s):
But actually what it's doing is driving down wages and impoverishing people. And also importantly, for these people, it's kind of turning the world culture into a global mishmash, right? And so one way I help people to understand this is that there's an old idea in anthropology, not all anthropologists endorse this, but that culture is not all the stuff you accept. It's not like, oh cool. My culture is I eat Thai food tonight. I eat Japanese food. Tomorrow culture is the ability to refuse things from the outer world. So you say, we do this, we live this way. We do not do polyamory. We are a culture of marriage and children or whatever, right?

2 (7m 11s):
And your ability to refuse is the place where you actually locate your own cultural values. I think a lot of these people are looking for ways to preserve local cultures by pushing back against the global order and saying, no,

1 (7m 25s):
How do they define American culture? What is the thing they want us to kind of build the wall around and keep

2 (7m 32s):
Well, so this is where I start to get lost in some of this stuff. Not so much, not so much in terms of confusion, but you know, they're very into kind of the tradition of Western Christiandom.

9 (7m 43s):
Elizabeth and England was an absolutely wonderful place. I think you can learn a lot from Napoleon. His military strategy was perhaps a little aggressive, but Napoleon is perhaps the Monarch who's most reminiscent of like a, a 21st century Silicon valley as CEO.

2 (8m 0s):
That is gonna sound very creepy to a lot of people. But that is kind of where a lot of these people are coming from in terms of how you define American culture. The basic deal I would say is that someone said to me at the national conservatives and conference, that he's just looking for a shred that preserves in the barest possible way, a distinctly American way of life. And I think to some degree he wouldn't have had a definition for American culture. It's kind of it's, you know, it's the whole definition of porn, you know it, when you see it. Yeah. I think that they are feeling like they're not seeing it anymore.

1 (8m 37s):
Let me ask you about something. A source recently told me that JD Vance converted to Catholicism in 2019 and I was really surprised and I looked it up and was like, oh, that's true. And then I realized that there is a certain type of, sort of right wing hipster that I'm aware of. And they've been, been converting to Catholicism too. The New York times just ran an op-ed called new York's hottest club is the Catholic church. And all of this seems a little weird to me

2 (9m 6s):
When the Catholicism, the young Catholic thing started happening to me, it didn't seem weird. Huh? To me it seemed like sort of very natural Catholicism was a little bit kind of, it's a lot of work to convert, but it's also a little bit plug and play like, oh wow. Like now I'm connected to 2000 years of Christian society. Like, oh, wow. Like now there's an answer to some of this. And so I have a lot of friends who are maybe not like they wouldn't consider themselves ultra right wing, but you know, they also wouldn't necessarily fit in with acceptable NPR style liberalism anymore. Yeah. Who have converted and who are very serious about it. The underlying desire, there is something that I think our society ought to look at the underlying desires.

2 (9m 49s):
Hey, I do want a deeper sense of meaning and connection and something beyond me. And so I think that there's been a very big cultural shift.

1 (9m 57s):
I, if I were to say, James, close your eyes and just think about it for a minute in 20 years, we'll be in 2042, let's say the new right. Gets exactly what it wants. They win all of the elections, they get all of the power. What does the us look like in the year 2042?

2 (10m 21s):
Okay. I'm gonna try to do that based on what I can specifically recall from, let's say Blake masters is campaign plans. The first step is gonna be likely some kind of national industrial policy where you're, you're kind of changing culture by changing political economy. You're bringing a back in America that builds stuff.

10 (10m 43s):
I come from Silicon valley and it was named Silicon valley because that's where we invented computer chips, but we don't make computer chips there anymore because we took all that productive industrial capacity. And we shipped it off to Southeast Asia to save a buck. It was a bad decision. It was a policy decision and we gotta bring that stuff back.

2 (11m 2s):
So they are trying to get back to a realer economy that they view as this thing that would kind of build pride, build a sense of ownership in of America building stuff. But there's a cultural component because eventually in that productive America, you're gonna be able to theoretically raise a family on one income again. And so then that starts to get in this territory that a lot of liberals find very uncomfortable where who's gonna be that breadwinner in a, in an America that's back to a one income household and people will say very openly. Blake masters says very openly

11 (11m 36s):
More women than men would choose to stay home. And more men would go choose to, to be out in the workforce. And the left can't stand that.

2 (11m 47s):
So you have a kind of very direct line from political economy to a reshaping of our culture. They talk a lot about family formation. They want Americans to have more babies.

4 (11m 58s):
The rejection of the American family is perhaps the most pernicious and most evil thing that the left has done in this country.

2 (12m 5s):
And for there to be a drastically slashed immigration pool, both of legal and illegal immigration,

11 (12m 11s):
I've come to see it as like corporate welfare for Google and Facebook at this point, like of course they would rather report tens of thousands of people from India to, to do these software programming jobs for less money.

2 (12m 23s):
One version of that is, Hey, we have to take care of our own one version of it feels like fascism. And then I think through these kind of, you know, political economy ideas that would in theory, reshape our culture, they view us returning to an America that does sort of resemble the fifties, which you know, is a kind of endearing image on one hand. And I think it's an image that would scare a lot of people at this day and age,

1 (12m 49s):
Right? Because the endearing image of the 1950s is Norman Rockwell, pastoral, white straight, but it excluded a lot of people. Is that what the new right wants to go back to

2 (13m 2s):
Candidly? The logic of new right politics is not that, Hey, we're gonna try to go back to an America of Dwight Eisenhower. Okay. The logic of, of, of new right politics is actually like we have fallen so far that we have to build a new huh. And so that, that I think is, is a little different than what a lot of people kind of tend to assume Republicans want. I don't think anybody on the new right. Especially in the intellectual spheres of it thinks that we're going back to anything. I think that what they are doing is they're gonna build a new sort of national culture from basically what they view as a wasteland.

2 (13m 43s):
Liberalism has come in and kind of sucked the value and turned everything into a commodity and kind of taken all the meaning and substance out of all these cultural artifacts. And they're gonna have to find a new political system, a new kind of national revitalization in order to build something new out of that. That's where I think a lot of people are going. I don't think they're trying to go back,

1 (14m 11s):
Coming up. If they're not going back, where does the new right wanna go

Net Zero Emissions Commitment - Sustainability | Citi (14m 26s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals. And to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology that money will help provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. But that's just a start. Having ambitious goals is what helps the world make meaningful progress. And it's going to take all of us working together to make sure we continue to move in the right direction because to address these worldwide problems, it's going to take worldwide action. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg.

Land Of The Giants (15m 28s):
I'm Alex Heath and I'm cohosting land of the giants. This season, meta the company formally known as Facebook so far. We've told the story of mark Zuckerberg's journey to reaching billions of users from the creation of the newsfeed to the acquisition of Instagram, but such massive scale that comes at a price in our upcoming episodes will examine how the company has had to grapple with the uncomfortable side of its power, from how to reckon with former president Donald Trump. I think mark in the end felt that if you're gonna start saying that heads of government, can't threaten to deploy force to restore order, that that sets a really quite a worrisome precedent To the harms its own technology amplifies Borderline harmful sensational content fundamentally does better. You know, under user engagement Will Zuckerberg's high stakes pivot to building the metaverse work. And if it does, what does that mean for all of us follow land of the giants, wherever you listen to hear new episodes every Wednesday

16 (16m 37s):
And now a brief selection from Blake masters rap career.

17 (16m 41s):
Here it go. How about we talk about the way I look, everybody knows that's off the hook. I've got the war paint on, as you can see who said, what about cultural in sensitivity? Nah, man, it's just having fun. Don't blame me. I ain't the one where's my beat something. Yeah. That's right

1 (17m 3s):
Today explained we're back with James Pogue who has written about the new right for vanity fair and James, a lot of what we've been talking about is still in the realm of the theoretical, the philosophical. Let's talk about something with real political stakes and real implications, the new right figures that you interviewed, where do they come down on Roe versus Wade being overturned?

2 (17m 24s):
They're delighted. They're very delighted. And I think they're delighted in a way that some people in the more traditional right are actually not the diagnosis that would be offered by a JD Vance or a Blake masters is that, you know, this older, right? The sort of corporate establishment in the Republican party, JD Vance would say that those people have basically been mobilizing the sort of mega masses as we see them. Now they've been mobilizing those people using cultural issues like abortion, and then turning around and basically screwing them over by pushing these economic policies that we've been living under for the last long time. Some of these operatives who are worried that, you know, robe being overturned is gonna hurt Republicans in the midterms.

2 (18m 9s):
People on the new right are much less concerned about that. They're much less under the impression that electoral politics are the only way forward in this country. First of all, they're much less under the impression that this system is necessarily gonna hold up for the next 20 years. And so they're delighted because this would seem to be a victory that is kind of the first time in a long time that you've had a major conservative victory in the cultural sphere.

1 (18m 36s):
There are also things on which they don't agree. They're kind of incoherent in some ways, how does a bunch of people who want different things become a coherent movement?

2 (18m 51s):
So if you think about the United States at the time of the founding, or at least, you know, before moments before the revolution, you had a lot of people who were coming together with different political, economic critiques of their relationship with great Britain who all of a sudden found a political critique and a, and an idea, a shaping idea that, Hey, we are gonna build a liberal free society. And this is something that I think we may be seeing the early parts of here in the United States, where you went from saying, Hey, we need to defend our sacred Liberty against parliament. Parliament was the problem that we still love the king.

2 (19m 31s):
You went from saying that from still being attached to the system to suddenly king George is a tyrant in the space of, you know, basically weeks, the declaration of independence, nobody when all that started thought that there was ever gonna be a declaration like that. And then once it gets rolling, things change very fast. And that was in the space of, you know, where it took, you know, days to get a letter from New York to Vermont. Now ideas shift very quickly. And so, you know, any kind of critique of a system, once it becomes current can become a kind of general source of uprising and challenge to a system much faster than I think a lot of people are aware of.

2 (20m 14s):
And so, you know, again, this is speculative, but we are not that far off from something that might look like that

1 (20m 24s):
These people can be very, very compelling. They're skeptical of big tech. They're skeptical of unfettered capitalism. They wanna make it easier to afford to raise a family. But then as you write, one of their leading thinkers, Curtis Arvin has flirted with white nationalism. It and, and flirted might not be a strong enough word. They are. In your words to quote you less convinced about electoral politics.

9 (20m 50s):
When you look at all across human history, the absolute normal form of government is monarchy.

1 (20m 56s):
They have expressed hostility to L G B T people.

4 (20m 60s):
Now, every time you see people's profiles or Twitter accounts, it's L G B T I a plus, which I don't even know what the hell that means.

1 (21m 8s):
They express hostility to immigrants. So all of this has led some people, their critics to say, you know what? This is, this is fascism. This is the same stuff we saw in the 1930s and forties in Europe. And we should call it fascism because if we don't, we're gonna end up in the same position. Europe ended up in, which is we're gonna see our democracy stolen from us by a bunch of extremists. What do you think about the charge that this starts to through a certain lens look like a fascist movement.

2 (21m 45s):
It's easier to imagine that the end of the world than it is to imagine the end of capitalism, that's often a thing that sort of people who used to be on the left now on the right will often say we get into these frames of thinking about threats to liberalism, such as we understood them back in the 20th century. Now we talk about anti-liberal coming from the right as fascism to me. That's not very descriptive because whether or not what these people are proposing is very, very scary and bad. It is likely not going to look like the fascism that we once knew. And so it's not going to be per se, this kind of Jack booty thing.

2 (22m 26s):
It's gonna be a much more kind of weird like amalgam of hetero docs, strange ideas that doesn't look like the kind of streamlined force of it. It nationally localized fascism, such as I've sort of understood it in my reading. It might be scarier than fascism. It might be a kind of union of tech, billionaires, and anti Democrats and people who believe in sort of human hierarchy, creating an absolute Sedo and dystopia that looks like nothing we've ever seen before. We have ended up in a system. Now that a lot, a lot, a lot of people are feeling like doesn't serve them.

2 (23m 9s):
And that's not just on the right. And I think that in terms of like, thinking about whether this system is the right thing for us, I think we're gonna have to get to that point because otherwise it's gonna be very, very difficult to answer the critiques of people on this new, right? And it's gonna be very, very difficult to push back against some of the more dangerous ideas. There are people planning the future and thinking about the future in ways that I think a lot of people in our media and political class are not aware of and not really ready to combat because they're not thinking on that those terms, they're thinking in terms of the next election cycle. And I find that very scary,

1 (23m 52s):
This new movement, if it wants to succeed will need a couple of things. It will need people. It will need some amount of coherence, but it will also need money. It will also need financial support who or what is the money behind the new, right?

2 (24m 7s):
There's a lot of talk about Peter teal as kind of the godfather of this new right, who

19 (24m 12s):
Helped fund Vance's long shot campaign, meet Peter teal. Have you ever used PayPal to buy something on eBay? Did you ever use Venmo to send money? If so, you've put cash into the pocket of teal who is thought to be worth several billion dollars.

2 (24m 28s):
What he is doing is he's making very calculated bets that have turned out to be smart on people like JD Vance people like Blake masters

10 (24m 37s):
Law school is where I met Peter teal. And I think that class sort of jostled me awake because it was the first time someone accomplished from the business world was coming in and not just saying a much

2 (24m 48s):
Who are capable of taking these very strange ideas and holding them in their heads, but also translating them towards a kind of more publicly acceptable electoral politics. And so it's a funny game because, you know, teal has given masters advance a ton of money. Teal is very close with them. You know, they'll advertise stuff where you can pay to go and have dinner with Blake masters and Peter teal privately.

1 (25m 15s):
Hmm.

2 (25m 17s):
I didn't follow this stuff, but I'm fairly certain that, you know, Peter teal was in touch with Trump about endorsing the two of them, things like that. And I know for a fact that Trump is sort of very impressed by teal. It's not just, I wrote you a check and, and you're off there. It's deeply coordinated

1 (25m 44s):
Tomorrow on the show, Peter, he made billions of dollars as a venture capitalist funding, emerging companies. Now he's funding emerging systems of government. And yes, that is every bit as troubling as it sounds. Teal's history of anti-democratic advocacy. Today's show was produced by miles Bryan. It was edited by Matthew Colette. It was engineered by a Fe Shapiro and it was fact checked by Laura Bullard unwell king it's today explained

Net Zero Emissions Commitment - Sustainability | Citi (26m 29s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. That's why cities working to help tackle climate change, help provide a path out of poverty and help close the racial wealth gap. Some might say this is idealistic, but having ambitious goals is what helps all of us make meaningful progress to address worldwide problems. It's going to take worldwide action. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg.