0 (0s):
So I was listening to Drake's new album.

2 (3s):
I've been blowing through the money, like a Grown trees. I've been on a French,

0 (8s):
He's actually rapping again, which is nice. But then he says something that totally takes me out. The experience, this

2 (13s):
Is not about getting shots, but she's still stallion

0 (16s):
This B word lie about getting shots. But she's still stallion.

1 (21s):
You've never been to heaven.

0 (23s):
Clearly. A reference to a traumatic night in 2020 when Megan the stallion says she was shot by another Canadian rapper named Tori Lane. And I'm like, why is Drake Colin, Megan a liar? Why would he put that in a song? It feels cheap, it feels mean. But it turns out Legion hip hop fans out there who think Megan the stallion is lying who aren't interested in waiting to hear the results of the trial of Tory Lanes that started this week. Why that is coming up on today? Explain

3 (60s):
Vultures TV critics spend a lot of time looking for the best tv, which in 2022 has been hard.

4 (1m 7s):
There was certainly a lot of TV more than anyone could humanly watch, but then every so often there would be yes, many nights where I would say like is there just a law and order from 20 years ago that I could watch

3 (1m 20s):
The best TV of the year? And why it's so difficult to find something to watch. This week on Intuit Vulture's Pop culture podcast, this is today explained

1 (1m 40s):
Ah, IAV classic, Fuji rat, sassy, moody Hacking, stupid. What was happening? What was happening? Thomas Savage,

0 (1m 53s):
Megan the Stallion, is one of the biggest musicians in the world right now. New album hosting Sn l Forbes 30 under 30. She's on the cover, A world tour coming up in the new year. She's everywhere, including this week, testifying in court about getting shot by another rapper. We asked Fabius at Vox how this person who's literally sitting on top of the world is also really going through it right now.

7 (2m 20s):
Tori Lane's right now has been charged by the District attorneys in Los Angeles on three felony charges.

8 (2m 27s):
The DA's office says Lanes whose legal name is Daystar Peterson, shot Megan's feet during an argument in the Hollywood Hills July 12th,

7 (2m 35s):
Their assault with a firearm causing great bodily injury, concealing a loaded unregistered firearm in a vehicle. And they added on a third charge, which is account of discharging a firearm with gross negligence. And so in July of 2020, Tori Lane's allegedly shot Megan the stallion. And so right now he's on trial for that and he faces up to 22 years and eight months in prison. He also runs the risk of being deported since he is a citizen of Canada. And so we're watching this case because it's really bringing a lot of attention to how black women in the music industry are vilified and denigrated.

7 (3m 15s):
And this is the case for, for black women outside of the industry too. And so I think the outcome of this case and how the audience reacts to it will say a lot about where we are when it comes to violence against women and violence against black women. We're also in a place where we're experiencing a lot of Me too backlash Me too, is not being as well received as it was, you know, four years ago. And so the outcome of this case will say a lot about where we are when it comes to the Me Too movement as well.

0 (3m 43s):
Tell us how this whole ordeal began.

7 (3m 45s):
So it goes back to the early hours of July 12th, 2020. Yeah, apparently Megan, the stallion, Tori Lane's, Megan's friend Kelsey and Tori's bodyguard left a party at Kylie Jenner's house and they drove away for some time. They were all headed home apparently. But what happened was when they were driving and arguing en ensued. And so Megan, the front seat and she tells the story, says she wanted to get out of the car.

1 (4m 16s):
I get out the car, I'm done arguing, I don't wanna argue no more, I'm walking away.

7 (4m 20s):
And next thing we know, the police show up

1 (4m 22s):
When the police came because the, the neighbors called the police. This did not happen at Kylie house, the police is really aggressive.

7 (4m 30s):
They arrest Tori Lane's for carrying a concealed firearm. They take Megan to the hospital because she's bleeding from her feet. And what she tells the police that night is that

9 (4m 38s):
Megan had received a cut on her foot from a piece of broken

7 (4m 42s):
Glass and basically that's circulating in the media. That's what's written in initial reports of the incident, is that Megan was bleeding from both of her

0 (4m 50s):
Feet. So initially, this is sort of a strange story, right? This, this massive pop star is in a car with this like basically Bush League Canadian rapper and they're leaving Kylie Jenner's house and something goes wrong. There's an argument, the massive pop stars feet are bleeding and all we know is there was some broken glass involved. Like I remember those first few days, people are just like, what is this story?

7 (5m 16s):
As the public receiving the story, we're just getting bits and pieces. We're just hearing that Megan and Tory lanes were pulled over, we're hearing that Megan was taken to the hospital because she was bleeding from her feet. Like I believe people were concerned cause they were like, oh my god, Megan is hurt. The police were there. And so people were mostly drawn to the fact that this huge artist, this pop artist, was stopped by the police in a year that is already marked by so much police violence. And so that is what people were drawn to. Like they were stopped by the cops. And that was, that was scary for a lot of people to

1 (5m 44s):
Hear the police come, I'm scared all this going on with the police. The police was literally killing black people for no reason.

7 (5m 52s):
But it wasn't until three days later that Megan, the stallion, said that she had been shot that night. She said

10 (5m 57s):
On Sunday morning, I suffered gunshot wounds as a result of a crime that was committed against me and done with the intention to physically harm

7 (6m 7s):
Me. She took to Instagram to, to reveal this. The post is is deleted, but she made it clear that it was the result of a crime. So it wasn't something that was by accident, but someone had intentionally tried to harm her.

1 (6m 20s):
You shot

7 (6m 21s):
Me. She claims that she wasn't arrested and that the police officers drove her to the hospital where she actually underwent surgery to remove bullets and bullet fragments from her feet.

0 (6m 33s):
Does she say why there was initially a different story. Did she tell that story that there was broken glass

7 (6m 40s):
Involved? So Megan never told the story of glass being in her feet. So the public, she, that's what she told the police when they arrived on scene. Why

1 (6m 47s):
The fuck would I tell the laws somebody got a gun in this car and this nigga shot me so I can get shot? You can get shot, she can get shot, he can get shot. I ain't tell the police what happened immediately right then cuz I didn't wanna die.

0 (6m 56s):
So Megan, the stallion comes out a few days after this incident and says, I didn't step on broken glass, I was shot. Does she say who shot her?

7 (7m 5s):
When Megan first came out to say that she suffered gunshot wounds, she does not say who shot her, but she made it clear that the person who shot her did it with the intention of physically harming her. And so that led to a lot of speculation about who shot her and why she would even lie about being shot. But when you think about the atmosphere of 2020, when you think about the police killings that people were protesting, whether that was George Floyd or Breonna Taylor, it was, it was a very tense summer and it was a, it was a really difficult position to be in as a black person because you are on high alert and if you're in a car with black people and the police stop you, you're gonna try to do your best to, to not give the police officers a reason to, to act aggressively toward you.

1 (7m 54s):
I didn't tell the police nothing because I didn't want us to get in no more trouble then what we was already about to get in.

0 (7m 60s):
Hmm. So what does Megan eventually reveal?

7 (8m 2s):
She eventually reveals that it was Tori Lane who shot her

11 (8m 5s):
And it's like everything happens so fast.

7 (8m 9s):
They had an argument as they were driving away from the party.

11 (8m 12s):
It's like it's getting worse. Arguing in the car, the arguing in the car is getting worse and I don't wanna be in this car no more. Like, cuz I see it's getting crazy.

7 (8m 21s):
She wanted to leave the car and now she is walking away from the car. Tori Lane bends over the window

11 (8m 29s):
And all I hear is this man screaming is he said dance <unk> and he start shooting. And I'm just like, oh my god. And what is he saying? Tori Lane saying after he's apologizing, he's, I'm so sorry. Please don't tell nobody. I'll give y'all a million dollars if y'all don't say nothing.

0 (8m 48s):
How does the world respond to this allegation from Megan, the stallion that, that some Canadian rapper most people have never heard of has shot one of the most popular musicians in the world.

7 (8m 59s):
People immediately start criticizing Meghan the stallion. It's, it's to the point where people actually begin making jokes about the shooting. People don't take it seriously.

12 (9m 8s):
I predict that they had some sort of Bobby and Whitney love that, you know, drove them down this snapped esque type of road and I'm here for it. I like that. I want you to like me so much. You shoot me in a foot too. Like,

0 (9m 23s):
And this continues to escalate into

7 (9m 26s):
Music. Exactly. So we have both artists putting out music that's packed with lyrics to kind of talk about what happened. And so specifically lane releases daystar,

1 (9m 38s):
People trying to frame for boys and cleaning up.

7 (9m 41s):
And he has a couple of songs on there that talks about the relationship that he allegedly had with Megan the stallion and, and talk about how he was innocent and also just cast out on, on the story that he shot her.

1 (9m 52s):
What we ever talk about this, where we ever console a gang or where we keep on acting like I put you in danger in some pain and when you hop back in the car with me, you knew everything was safe, please don't let these make you change. We both know what happened that night and what I did, but it ain't what they say. But when the feelings change the

7 (10m 8s):
Stop, she deals with it. In the same way that she deals with a lot of the other hate and ritual that she's been facing in the past two years. She directly responds,

13 (10m 19s):
I know I'm very popular, but y'all gotta stop attaching weak blank conspiracy theories in bars to my name. Megan went on to tell musicians since when the F is cool, the joke about women getting

7 (10m 29s):
Shot. So she directly says, says to Drake, you are using me for attention, you're using me for clout. And so again, people have throughout these two years criticized the way that Megan has come forward to talk directly to the naysayers and talk directly to the critics and and just say, it's very wrong that you're making fun of someone who has faced such a traumatic experience. What

14 (10m 56s):
Do you say to people that still don't believe that you were actually shot?

11 (10m 59s):
I don't think any of this is for them. Like it's for me, like I know this happened to me, I'm a victim, like I'm the victim. Like I don't, I'm not defended myself against anything. Like something happened to me.

7 (11m 13s):
And she's responding in her music as well

1 (11m 16s):
Imagined lime blind by shooting the real face

7 (11m 21s):
And, and, and not just directly to the violence that she's faced, but she's also in her music talking about the mental health toll that this has taken on her. And so in an SNL performance this fall, she, she's on stage crying and, and holding back tears. And it, a lot of people said that this was clearly a result of the immense stress and and trauma that she's been dealing with since allegedly being shot by Tori Lane's. In the summer of 2020,

0 (11m 51s):
Fabio was writes about race and policy at Vox, why so many haters and even some fans are struggling to see Megan the stallion as a victim here when today explained returns. Hey everyone, Sean, putting on my, you know, public radio p b s hat right now to remind you that today explain comes to you year round. In part thanks to support from generous listeners, just like you, access to trustworthy information and explanations of complex ideas and issues is a core part of our mission at Vox.

0 (12m 37s):
And you can support that mission right now by giving. This month Vox is aiming to add 3000 contributors to the community of people supporting our journalism to keep our explanatory journalism free for all people. Financial gifts directly support everything Vox does. You can make a gift@vox.com give today to help us reach our goal of 3000 contributors this month. There's also a link in the show notes of this very episode you're listening to right now. Thank you so much for supporting Vox.

16 (13m 12s):
Okay, so I'll open the champagne. So when you're in sommelier school, they teach you that the pop shouldn't be no louder than a nun's fart.

17 (13m 24s):
A pop that's no louder than a nun's fart. That's the sound. That means there's gonna be a celebration

18 (13m 30s):
That's right around the world. December is often party time and we here at Gastropod are celebrating in style.

17 (13m 35s):
We've got a two-part special mini-series for you this month with the stories behind two of these special occasion treats caviar. And of course Champagne

18 (13m 45s):
Gastaut is the podcast that looks at food through the lens of science and history. So we are going to get to the bottom of why the eggs from a massive dinosaur looking freshwater fish are one of the most expensive foods in the world.

17 (13m 56s):
And why champagne is in a different league to other fizzy wines like Kava and Prosecco.

18 (14m 2s):
We also discover why champagne's bubbles were originally considered a flaw and how to give a sturgeon an ultrasound.

17 (14m 7s):
Come join the party, find gastropod and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (14m 17s):
Today explained Megan Thee stallion is injured after an argument. She immediately says it was broken glass, but then quickly reveals she was shot. She says by the raper Tory lanes who was arrested for gun possession and is now charged with felony assault with a firearm among other things. But a lot of people don't buy this story. They refuse to believe Megan and Professor Moya Bailey has a theory why miso noir.

15 (14m 42s):
I coined the term misogynoir in 2008 while working on my dissertation and I was looking at these old medical school yearbooks from the 1910s and looking at the representation of black women. And it was interesting that I saw these caricatures and stereotypes about black women in these medical school yearbooks that I was also seeing in popular culture of the time in terms of what was on television, what was in music. And it occurred to me that there's a way that black women specifically are being targeted. So misogynoir is a way to describe the anti-black racist misogyny that black women experience and people read as black women experience.

0 (15m 29s):
Tell us more about some historical examples of misogynoir just to help us contextualize it.

15 (15m 38s):
So a historic example of misogynoir as it relates to politics is the example of the welfare queen, which was used in the eighties and nineties to paint a picture of black women as drains on the nation state, that black women were having lots of babies and taking all of these government funds to support themselves but also were abusing the system

19 (16m 6s):
In the welfare culture, the breakdown of the family, the most basic support system has reached crisis proportions in female and child poverty, child abandonment, horrible crimes and deteriorating schools.

15 (16m 19s):
And really that wasn't true. The largest recipients of state assistance are white people to this day. And another example that we can think of is Serena Williams, who was giving birth to her daughter Olympia and felt an experience that she had had before she felt a blood clot forming and really had to advocate for herself, for the doctors to actually listen to her, to pay attention to her.

20 (16m 49s):
According to Vogue, she walked out of the hospital room so her mother wouldn't worry and told the nearest nurse between Gass that she needed a CT scan with contrast and IV heparin, a blood thinner. Right away the nurse thought her pain medicine might be making her confused.

15 (17m 6s):
This is something that happened to black women a lot. There's actually a film called Aftershock that's specifically about the way that black women are dying of maternal mortality at rates that farse everyone else who is getting pregnant and having babies. And that is another example of how misogyny actually has material consequence in people's lives.

0 (17m 36s):
And of course we need to look no further than hiphop itself. For examples of miso and the story of Megan, the stallion and and Tori Lane, what did you think when you first saw that, you know, any way you cut it, this very painful experience for Megan Thee stallion was being mocked and that she was receiving criticism online.

15 (18m 0s):
Honestly, I can say that I wasn't that surprised when I saw it. Internalized misogyny was real and unfortunately, misogynoir is an equal opportunity employer because there's this idea that black women are not telling the truth or we don't take the violence and experiences of black women seriously. There's a way that the community and multiple communities didn't believe Megan. And to this day a lot of people didn't believe. Megan,

0 (18m 32s):
Why is this happening? Why, why don't, why don't people believe Megan Thee stallion?

15 (18m 37s):
I think it's a larger question about people not understanding or believing black women, generally black women are not seen as believable victims. There's also this idea connected to misogynoir. The black women are strong and resilient.

21 (18m 52s):
Now, you may be wondering what is a strong black woman? It's the idea that black women are emotionally resilient, naturally selfless, too proud to ask for help and can succeed with no resources. Though basically every character played by Viola Davis.

15 (19m 9s):
So the idea that she could actually be a victim is also not part of the narrative. So for Megan to actually talk about the real harm that she experienced is, is a bit different and not what people might expect.

0 (19m 25s):
And that's why people are more inclined to believe the guy who was literally arrested that night for gun possession over the woman who went to the hospital to have shards of bullets removed from her feet.

15 (19m 36s):
Absolutely. And

0 (19m 38s):
What do you then make of huge rappers like Drake or or 21 Savage getting in on this, especially Drake who purports to be a feminist if you watch his nice for what video? It's all about being an ally to women, mocking her in their music.

15 (19m 53s):
There's a real capitalistic imperative. And also I think there's that old adage, as you know, problematic as it is bros before hoes. I think there's a idea that men will stay together on this topic and won't actually look at the reality of the situation.

0 (20m 15s):
Do you think she'd be taking this much heat, even if she came out from the jump with the story that she's now telling that I was shot by Tory lane's last night?

15 (20m 25s):
Yes, I think she would be taking the same amount of heat. Unfortunately, there's so many stories of black women trying to express and tell their stories of trauma and survivorship, and so often they're met with disbelief and there is this idea that black women have to be a perfect victim. And even when we are, there isn't the same sort of attention or rallying or outcry when black women are harmed is when black men are harmed. And that's one of the things that I think about with Misogynoir. There's such a specific way that black women who are harmed or treated in media versus how black men are treated.

15 (21m 12s):
It also reminds me of what happened recently with Britney Griner. And now that Britney has been able to return through this prisoner swap, there's been criticism there that says that while she shouldn't have been one of the people treated, that her crimes are so minuscule compared to this arms dealer that we really should not think about Britney in the same way. So I do think that there is a level of misogynoir that's happening there as well, that Brittany is still not seen as somebody deserving of freedom for such a small infraction that otherwise wouldn't have garnered much attention if we weren't in this particular political climate.

0 (22m 2s):
We're talking about Britney Griner and Megan the stallion, right? We're talking about one of the greatest athletes alive, one of the biggest musicians in the world. Where where does this leave everyday black women in the United States who might be victims of domestic violence or other crimes?

15 (22m 19s):
One of the things that Megan's story and Britney's story should illuminate for us is that celebrity and power for black women don't protect them from harm. Misogynoir touches all black women, and particularly for those who are not in positions of power or celebrity, the consequences are even more dire.

0 (22m 42s):
How do you think we, we break this cycle of misogynoir? It sounds like it's decades if not centuries, if not as old as time.

15 (22m 52s):
Misogynoir does have a long history, but just as there has been that long history, there have also been stories of black women and their allies and accomplices pushing back on that reality. So I see real power in the media narratives that black women create for themselves as examples and ways that misogynoir gets challenged, the things that people are producing, create a different visual landscape for black women and create more possibility. So television shows even something simple like elementary are creating new opportunities, new ways for people to see black women and create new possibilities and stories for what our worlds can look like.

22 (23m 41s):
Look, I know this school is rough, but I became a teacher to make sure students come out alive. And after learning a lot in my first year, finally fell on top of things.

0 (23m 51s):
Did you see Trevor Noah's last episode of The Daily Show?

15 (23m 54s):
I did. I did.

23 (23m 55s):
This is random for some, but special shout out to, to black women. I,

0 (24m 4s):
Of all the things he could have said with that platform that you know, he probably knew would get viewed millions of times, he chose to shut out black women.

23 (24m 11s):
People always be shocked. They'd be like, why do what black women turn out the way they do in America? Why do they vote the way? Yeah, because they know what happens if things do not go the way it should, they cannot afford to <unk> around and find out. And I'll tell you now, do yourself a favor. You truly want to know what to do or how to do it, or maybe the best way or the most, the most equitable way. Talk to black women.

15 (24m 36s):
Black women really hold it down for community. And miso and war is one of the ways that we are not repaid for that service. So I'm really inspired and excited by more people taking up the mantle to transform misogynoir and create a new reality for black women through the media they create. We're in a moment where we can shift some of these representations, and I've been really moved by what people are doing for themselves.

0 (25m 22s):
Professor Moya Bailey. She's at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois. She's got a book about misogynoir called Misogynoir Transformed Black Women's Digital Resistance. Our show today was produced by Haddi Ma Wadi and s Petros. It was edited by Matthew Collette, fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by AEM Shapiro. I'm Sean Ramis firm. This is today. Explain.