2 (4s):
Hello. Hello, Mom. Yes, Hey listen, it's Friday. I know there's been a lot of news this week that me about it. There's been you know fires in Australia unrest in the Middle East. There's been this flight that went down the the beginning of the Harvey Weinstein trial. Oh my gosh out about that one. Yes, that means you did. The to yesterday's show chits. I did half way, but I did I had something happen and I stopped listening to it happens to the best of us, but I think I know what news you are most excited about.

2 (46s):
This is the royal family. It is the big news out of the royal family. Yes. My question is because you've been following this more closely than I have. Do you think with all of the news we have there's enough here to make a whole episode about with the royal family. Yeah. First of all, they want to be independent. We want to make their own money and leave the country and bring their child up. We did want to bring him up. We are not comfortable. The populace is always saying things about Meghan. She was never accepted into that Society.

2 (1m 27s):
She can do anything like she's having our car the toast. Just so they say all Reagan is having avocado toast and last night Megan left for Canada actually left her baby to she left her baby in Canada. Why did you leave her baby in Canada? I myself didn't know that you left the baby until I heard that she left the baby with the nanny with the mulrooney's and now she's gone to be with the baby. Nobody Knows. The details will try to get to the bottom of all

1 (2m 1s):
this for you in today's so but you got to promise that you'll listen Okay, I mean, I mean, I mean I mean It's astonishing it's momentous in its has no precedent in modern Time Prince Harry the most popular Royal after the queen and his American Wife Megan issuing. What amounts to a declaration of independence a couple issuing this personal statement today saying that they intend to step back a senior members of the royal family will split their time between the UK and North America.

1 (2m 45s):
Queen Kristen meinzer, you're obsessed with Megan and Harry help us cut through all the noise right now. What is this announcement really mean? The first part of the announcement is that they're going to step back somewhat from their senior Royal duties.

2 (2m 58s):
The second part is they want to

1 (2m 60s):
divide their time more between North America, which is where Megan Marco is from. Obviously. She is an American who also lived in Canada for many many years and then the part 3 of this is they're going to change their relationship with the Press.

2 (3m 21s):
Let's go through these three things one by one starting with they're leaving. They're salaried positions. There are no longer going to be salaried members of The Firm if you will they do show up occasionally for Royal engagements. They fully support the queen. They're still in line for the throne, but they make their living outside of the firm. They receive money in order to do what is essentially diploma. And public relations. They are defining what it means to be British. They are defining what it means to be royal and in a lot of ways. They are a tourism draw the Royals supposedly depending on what sources you look at bring in 1.8 billion pounds per year in tourism dollars people going to those Royal sites and wanting to do Royal tourism.

2 (4m 8s):
Look at the Royal costumes and jewelry and see them out in public. So that adds up to quite a A bit of money that they bring in hmm. Do we know what like the net worth of Prince Harry and mega Markle is yeah. There's a lot of speculation around that some sources say that it's as little as twenty nine million dollars which oh my gosh. Some say it's twice that much. I mean he unfortunately received that money under very sad circumstances. That's an inheritance from his mother that makes it most of it and then Megan of course had a career long before she knew Harry she was making plenty of money on her own. That's suits money. Yes, that's

1 (4m 46s):
right. Hey, you busy. It's seven o'clock. I'm not here because I like the view and don't misunderstand me when I say the view. I'm referring to your face. That's funny because I'm

2 (4m 55s):
hideous. It's suit, sir. Let's talk. I'm sorry. I'll stop I'm sorry. Tell me more about this move my mom. Let me know that Megan is already in Canada where they actually going to settle. Is it going to be Montreal Miami condo in Toronto a mansion in Wisconsin? Well, they have ties in lots of parts of North America. Obviously Toronto for all those years that Megan was shooting suits. Their Meghan has some very close friends there. And that's the nation where Megan and Harry first were really, you know, established as a couple was in Canada. However, Megan's originally from California. She also has close ties to Chicago because she's a graduate of Northwestern University and she also has close ties to New York City where she has many friends and has come back many times including for her baby shower.

2 (5m 45s):
Oh nice, so we just don't really know where they're going to end up yet. I hope she moves next door to me, but I just don't think that's going to happen. Unfortunately, I'm pulling for Canada Canada could use some punk your bias because you're from there. And that's fine. That's fine. It would make my mom that happiest. Okay, let's talk about this third thing because I think this is sort of the Crux of the whole matter here. What will this changing relationship with the Press look like and why is that so important to them? What currently exists for the British Royals is something called The Royal Road a system and it's kind of like the Press Corps at the White House and this is just a select handful of press Outlets that get to have the exclusive on stories.

2 (6m 29s):
They get to have photos before they're published even on Instagram. And so this select group of press Outlets. You would think would all be established prestigious legitimate and so on but it actually includes a lot of Rags like the sun. gossip Rags that frankly treat Megan in particular Like An Enemy of the State the Duke and Duchess of Sussex have come out fighting facing down

1 (6m 56s):
media critics and taking legal action against the mail on Sunday a British

2 (7m 0s):
tabloid in a lawsuit. The royal couple says the Tabloid unlawfully edited and published a private letter believed to be from Megan to her estranged father Thomas

1 (7m 10s):
Markle. I will always protect my family and I know I have a family to protect and if anybody else knew what I knew. If beautiful the better husband in anyone you do should probably do be doing exactly what I'm doing as well.

2 (7m 27s):
They say that she Straight Outta Compton. They create ties between her and terrorists. They are nothing short of racist and sexist. And this is something that even when she and Harry were just hoarding came up again and again to the point that he made a public statement even before they were engaged and all of the women and peas also made a concerted effort to This public that they don't approve of this and signed a joint letter in support of making Mark also, they no longer want to be part of the Royal Road a system and they want to they've said on their website deal more directly with both Grassroots, press outlets and media programs and so on but in addition to those Grassroots media Outlets, they also want to deal with more established legitimate media Outlets.

2 (8m 11s):
They don't want to be dealing with the sun anymore. They don't want to have to give their for story to the Daily Mail. Is it their relationship with the press that kind of LED them to make this decision? Well, I'm sure it factored in if they have been vicious it has been daily. It has been unrelenting.

1 (8m 30s):
I don't know what the impact on your physical and mental health of all the pressure that you clearly feel under. I would say look any woman when they're especially when they're pregnant, you're really vulnerable. And so that was made for the challenging. And then when you have a newborn know it's a long time ago, but I remember yeah and especially as a woman, it's really it's a lot. So you add this on top of just trying to be a new mom or going to be a newlywed. It's Yeah, well, I guess and also thank you for asking because not many people have asked him.

1 (9m 14s):
I'm okay, but it's it's a very real thing to be going through behind the scenes.

2 (9m 22s):
There have been multiple cases of Megan being criticized for doing exactly the same things that Kate Middleton does and is celebrated for for those who don't know Kate Middleton is the wife of Prince William Harry's older brother. Yes, that's right. And so for example At one point War wedge heels, which is quote breaking protocol and yet Kate has been doing that ever since she was engaged to William Megan was photographed with her hands in her Pockets, which was considered disrespectful. But the queen was photographed very recently on the front cover of a newspaper with her hands in her own Pockets. Did anyone think that that was disrespectful when the queen did it? No, well speaking of the queen.

2 (10m 3s):
How did her majesty react to this announcement from Megan and her husband? Tersely I think would be the right word for it. It sounds as though conversations that were happening behind the scenes about this were probably quietly slowly taking place and it sounds as though when the Queen's office responded about an hour after Megan and Harry made their announcement on Instagram. Yeah, it did not sound as though her office was very excited about this. How did the public react? Wow, the Public's quite divided. There are the Megan Markle haters which Are numerous all over the UK including the UK tabloid, press who used to criticize her for leaching off the state.

2 (10m 46s):
And now that she and Harry have announced that they are going to be making their own living have now accused her of abandoning her post.

1 (10m 57s):
We will feel we have our inalienable personal sovereignty but I'm afraid if you aren't a member of the royal family. I don't think that applies. I mean, it's virtually a letter of resignation. Isn't it? Look we can't take the heat. We don't like it. We were feeling very miserable. We had six great weeks out on Vancouver Island. We kind of like that. They announced it officially on Instagram. I mean, I think that's absolutely disgraceful. I really do. The handle things in the way that they are and not take any advice which is what they apparently are. Not doing is grossly responsible for any Royal or indeed anyone in public life.

1 (11m 39s):
Harry and I are going to go to Canada now and they won't have any cameras outside their place. This is just an absolute fast,

2 (11m 48s):
but I would say Stateside there's some sadness because how sad that the abuse that she has received has been a factor in them. Pulling away from the crown and that's sad that that's what caused this but their celebration because hey, you're going to be closer to us now to have some royalty living on our turf for

1 (12m 7s):
a while. It's going to be fun.

2 (12m 11s):
So it sounds like in the UK where these Traditions are rich and storied people are really upset and in the United States where we don't have a royal family and people don't really care about the Royal Traditions people are open to the modernization of the British royal family. Ali I would say sell and I also think that in the u.s. It's easier for us to have more of a fun celebrity Disney relationship with royalty because we don't have any of our own so, you know, of course we're going to be enchanted with that over here a lot of us are is there some truth to some of the things that people have said about this couple in the Press? I mean people say they're you know these, you know prominent environmentalists but they're traveling around the world and private jets all the time, of course, and then I don't know.

2 (12m 54s):
Is there something to be said about Megan Markle signed up for this life in the biggest Spotlight in the world and all of a sudden doesn't like it. Mmm something that she herself said in the ITV documentary about their efforts in Africa during their Africa tour was that she always expected it to be difficult, but she also expected it to be fair and things have not been Fair. Why did she expect it to be fair though? Because I think that she expected it to hopefully not be entirely racist all the time. She did not expect it. To be lies all the time. She did not expect her mail to be stolen. She did not expect her family members to be bribed. I think that she expected maybe the same level of abuse that Kate Middleton or you Jenny or Beatrice get but she wasn't expecting the kind of vitriol.

2 (13m 40s):
She receives on The Daily listen, you know, I feel about racism Kristen but like with Princess Diana died in a car accident while I like being chased around by Paparazzi, I would not expect good things to come of anything to do with that family. I'm sorry. There are a lot Of problems with the family and I will be the first to admit it. I mean come on. They are inbred. They groomed a teenager to be a bride. They have a sex offender who they're essentially just protecting right now. Yes, there are a lot of problems in this family. And for that reason they should be grateful. There's a Meghan Markle somebody who is outspoken volunteering at soup kitchens all through her time while she was on suits. So to have somebody like that in the family, you would think the Royals would be thrilled to have that.

2 (14m 23s):
I mean, would you rather have her or prince Andrew and your family Megan Marco, but I would have been like Megan. We love you your family, but you should have known these people are a little wild didn't you see the crown come on, you're now gonna be the subject of the crown season 47 or whatever not even seasoned 47th season 6, right? I mean, yes, but frankly the royal family doesn't know how to deal with racism.

1 (14m 52s):
They

2 (14m 52s):
have zero experience dealing with racism except for their own family members being racist. Sometimes I don't think they know how to deal with it when racist headlines are being thrown at them. And so they stayed silent through all of this and I cannot imagine being making Markle in this family dealing with this racist abuse constantly and nobody in your family that you married into will actually acknowledge it or speak up on your

1 (15m 17s):
behalf. Women don't need to find a voice. They have a voice. They need to feel empowered to use it and people need to be encouraged to listen.

2 (15m 40s):
Moore's Kristen in a minute. It's today explained. Hey everyone, so I know you know all about Vox podcast because I talk about him all the time you listen to one right now. I know you know about boxes Netflix show explain but Vox is also just getting into the regular like narrative TV game right now. You can find a show called Little America on Apple TV plus

1 (16m 15s):
only in America Dia odd tax

2 (16m 18s):
after you see the ticket

1 (16m 20s):
Place only in America can such a part of the game exist Face Forward hamburgers. These Burgers bacon chili cheeseburger everything on top of everything only in America.

2 (16m 37s):
But America comes from the people who brought you the big sick and master of none. It tells 8 extraordinary true stories of immigrants coming to America people from Syria. Uganda Mexico Nigeria. These stories are funny romantic their heartfelt and inspiring and who couldn't use a little bit of that right now Little America is live. Now, you can find it on the Apple TV app or go straight to tv.com All.com the show is called Little America 8 episodes check them out now.

2 (17m 17s):
Hey, it is Ezra Klein. And I want to tell you about an exciting Episode VII has reclined show you can listen to now and episode literally years in the making it is a special excerpt of my new book. Why were polarized which is coming out on Tuesday, January 28th, the book explores the structural and psychological Dimensions behind the way American politics has changed and polarized what it has done to our institutions, but importantly what it is doing to us. So I hope you enjoy it and you can listen to it by subscribing to the Ezra Klein show right now for free in your favorite podcast app it to hear a special excerpt from the

1 (17m 51s):
Today today is like

2 (17m 57s):
Kristen. Is this the first time someone in this royal families? She said like hey, let's modernize this thing. Let's hit F5 and refresh the thing. Well, actually Prince Charles has been saying for ages. He's been advocating for a more streamlined monarchy. He doesn't want the you know 20th in line to the throne being on the payroll anymore. He has said repeatedly that he would like The air and then The Heirs heirs to be the main people who are being paid or out on the world stage. He really believes that that's what the modern monarchy should be. And was that because of his kids or was that just for himself the skeptic would say it's just because he and his kids benefit from it the most but I also think it's because he sees the criticism that is railed against them from the public who say we don't like paying to keep you in a palace.

2 (18m 48s):
We don't want all of our tax dollars to go toward. All the Posh things that you get to have dripping in Jewels flying private jets. We don't want you to have this huge life on our dime when a lot of us are living on the poverty line and he's also is an outspoken environmentalist and he has been for decades now and I think Prince Charles sees a lot of this as wasteful how were his proposals to modernize the royal family received. I think that some people really appreciate it. But I also think that some people forget that Prince Charles is ever going to be king the queen seems like she's going to live forever. Or so Prince Charles says he would like to do this and I think people you know sort of hear it but they don't necessarily internalized it that much because Prince Charles actually is not one of the more popular Royals a poll that was done in August by yougov found that after the Queen the most popular Royal in the family is actually Prince Harry.

2 (19m 39s):
Hmm. So then maybe Prince Harry's attempts here to modernize will ultimately be looked at positively by by the English public. What do you think? He'll try and do apart from these three things we talked about which is get out of Dodge ditching ditch the salary and have a different relationship with the Press what might living half-time in North America Toronto Brooklyn next to you somewhere allow him to do. Oh and I assumed you live in Brooklyn. I'm sorry. If I did you are correct. You know, I think that he and Megan will be able to Champion the cause is that they care about without having to run them by the queen first.

2 (20m 20s):
And who knows what those causes will be he has said out in the open. I am a feminist right? I think they're going to talk vocally about racism. I think the British royal family is afraid to talk about racism. They have historically gotten onto a boat when they've landed put a flag in the ground and said this is ours and that's frequently lands that belonged to brown people and I can see why the royal family has historically maybe been scared to talk about those things, but they need to and when Harry He and Megan are separated from the family a little bit more. Maybe they can be more on the front lines of those Clauses if they do pull this off. Do you think oh, they will pull it off they are going to do it.

2 (21m 0s):
They're going to jump class gender a firm believer in their ability to pull this sucker anything Megan and Harry want to do Megan and Harry are going to do your so biased you love this one so much. What's not to love? Ha ha I mean though the whole thing the whole song and dance. I guess it's like so much of what you're saying. Is that this whole System is out of whack with like the way the world is going. It's stuck in its tradition for the sake of tradition. People can't even accept that these people want to make their own choices. It seems sort of rotten Kristen. Should we just say I let's dissolve the thing and just be boring and have a parliament.

2 (21m 40s):
No. No, you already answered your own question. Why would you want to be boring? Let's have a little magic. Let's have a little fantasy. Let's have a little bit of crazy over there that we Watch from afar, let's enjoy it all so when this does become season 6, let's say of the crown. How do you think the people will view it then? They're bad headlines saying that perhaps he was the one trapped in the tower and needed a princess to save him. I think that they will celebrate Megan and Harry and see them as one of the great Modern Love Stories of the world. You think season 6 of the crown will be a good one. Oh, it'll be the best. She can play herself. Oh man, cuz there's nobody else beautiful enough.

1 (22m 20s):
All the play her it's disgusting how much you love that and

2 (22m 26s):
by disgusting you mean

1 (22m 27s):
beautiful? Oh, oh, that's what I mean.

2 (22m 38s):
Kristen meinzer is really

1 (22m 40s):
hoping that Megan Markle moves to Brooklyn Kristen hosted a

2 (22m 44s):
royal wedding podcast called when Megan met

1 (22m 47s):
Harry and she currently

2 (22m 48s):
co-hosts a half reality half self-help podcast called by the book. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is a half news half self-help podcast called today explained. I'm helped by Bridget McCarthy. I'm Anna al-saadi Halima Shah of theme Shapiro

1 (23m 5s):
and I'm hassenfeld know I'm and the Mysterious brake master cylinder help with

2 (23m 9s):
music Olivia Eckstrom helps with fact checking and were also helped by Gillian

1 (23m 14s):
Weinberger. She's helping us crank out podcast in the new year and Jillian's also now the host of the impact from Vox the new season just started, you know, all those big shiny ideas. The 2020 candidates are proposing to make America more functional and the new season Jillian and her team visit all the places those ideas have already been tried. To find out how

2 (23m 35s):
they worked or didn't work. You can and

1 (23m 39s):
should listen to the impact wherever you listen

2 (23m 41s):
to your podcast the impact and today explained are part of the VOX media podcast

1 (23m 46s):
Network.