0 (1s):
In his role as attorney general, Merrick Garland has been the silent type.

1 (6s):
Since I became attorney general, I have made clear that the department of justice will speak through its court filings and its work.

0 (14s):
He has his reasons,

1 (15s):
Much of our work is by necessity conducted out of the public eye. We do that to protect the constitutional rights of all Americans and to protect the integrity of our investigations.

0 (28s):
But exactly one week ago, Merrick Garland was in the position of needing to say something Republican lawmakers and some regular Americans were going after the FBI conspiracy theorizing about the rate on Malago. So Garland made himself clear.

1 (45s):
I personally approved the decision to seek a search warrant. In this matter,

0 (50s):
The attorney general spoke for fewer than four minutes, and now a lot of work lies ahead. Coming up on today, explained Merick Garland's dilemma,

3 (60s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg

0 (1m 49s):
It's today explained Elle king, Zach beam, senior correspondent at Vox. What do we know about Ray Lago that we didn't know last week

4 (1m 58s):
We learned more or less what Trump was under investigation four, right? Like why they rated his house. We knew it related to classified documents, but we didn't know exactly what the legal authority was for pursuing him. It turns out that there is a suspicion in the justice department that his handling of classified documents at Mar Lago. I mean, bringing it there in the first place was in violation of three different statutes. One of which the most important and significant is the ESP espionage act. Not just about spying as it may sound, but in general governs the handling of information by government officials and non-government officials for that matter. It was the authority for the prosecution of Julian Assange.

3 (2m 39s):
What is the

0 (2m 40s):
Either potential or alleged crime that the DOJ is investigating?

4 (2m 46s):
What we should look at is something called section 7 93 of 18 us code chapter 37. So broadly it covers the mishandling of national security information that could possibly harm the United States or aid its enemies. Hmm. So we're talking about classified documents to be sure, but also anything having to do broadly with national defense information, potentially being stored unlawfully in the former president's home.

0 (3m 12s):
What do cases against people who are charged with violating the espionage act typically look like usually it's not a former president. We, we can start there. Who

4 (3m 23s):
Is, is it usually no, it, it is basically never. One example is Julian Assange, the head of WikiLeaks Assange was charged with violating the espionage act by disseminating classified information. The

5 (3m 36s):
Additional 17 count indictment alleges ass and WikiLeaks have repeatedly sought, obtained and disseminated information that the United States classified due to the serious risk.

4 (3m 47s):
Another example is reality winner.

6 (3m 50s):
I am not a trader. I am not a spy.

4 (3m 54s):
This is a person who is a contractor with a national security agency, leaked a classified report about Russian Medling in the 2016 election to the intercept, something in the documents that were posted by the intercept allowed winner to be identified by the government and was arrested shortly after the story was published.

6 (4m 13s):
I am somebody who only acted out of love for what this country stands for.

4 (4m 19s):
Another famous case, an older one is Daniel Ellsberg, who has tried in 1973 for leaking the so-called Pentagon papers, all these documents about the Vietnam war and the us government's handling of it that were pretty damning to the Washington post in the New York times Ellsberg's case was dismissed and both key and winner had legal access to their documents. Assange did not. Those are sort of a variety of different cases, but generally the, the thing that ties them together is that somebody got some classified information and leaked it publicly.

5 (4m 56s):
How

0 (4m 57s):
Has Donald Trump been responding to all of this?

4 (5m 0s):
So Trump tells what he always does, right? Which is like throw shit at the wall and see what sticks

7 (5m 5s):
Former president Trump is battling back against the justice department. He is demanding that the department released to him and to the public, the underlying evidence and justification for the search at his Malago residence.

4 (5m 18s):
He has argued that Barack Obama also retained classified information. No, that's not true. He said that the documents that were acquired in the search were planted, especially the damning ones that as far as we can tell is completely made up. He also claims that he declassified all of the documents. There's no public evidence of him having declassified this stuff. But one variant of the argument that has been picked up on, especially among right wing commentators has been that the president, just like if the president takes a document out of, of a government building, then the president declassified it basically using their, the powers of their mind.

8 (5m 58s):
The feds say they seize classified documents. How'd they know that just because some little lawyer didn't put a C on the bottom of the page, you don't need a little C on the bottom of the page. Once the president says something's to classify, that's it, the rest is bookkeeping.

4 (6m 12s):
It's something akin to like, you know, there's that scene in the office where Michael Scott wants to declare bankruptcy. And instead of going to file the legal process where he declares bankruptcy, he says,

9 (6m 23s):
I declare bankruptcy.

4 (6m 28s):
This is basically the presidential equivalent of that is, is how the argument works.

0 (6m 31s):
Does the argument that when a president leaves the white house with documents, those documents are then declassified by dint of, of the fact that he's the president and he's leaving with them. Does that hold water? What do scholars tell us about that?

4 (6m 44s):
So it's, it's obviously not something that's ever been tested in court, right? So, so we don't have authoritative rulings. That would answer the question. My gut read of what I've seen so far is that that is not going to be an effective defense, right? Like if Trump had tweeted out the document, maybe that would be different than just like taking it home, right. Because you're making, you're choosing to make it public rather than just sort of like hiding it. I also don't know if that distinction would hold. What I do know is that there are certain documents. The president does not have unilateral authority to take and handle as he might choose. Oh. So even if the declassification theory is true and I'm very much not confident that it is, there are other regulations governing the handling of these documents and their storage, this is really serious stuff.

4 (7m 32s):
And it's not clear that the president's declassifying authority can get him out of it to say the least,

0 (7m 37s):
What are the odds, Zach, that Donald Trump will be charged with something. What are you hearing?

4 (7m 41s):
Nobody knows. Literally nobody knows. Part of it is that the Garland justice department has been very leak free.

1 (7m 50s):
Since I became attorney general, I have made clear that the department of justice will speak through its court filings and its work.

4 (7m 58s):
Unlike the Mueller investigation, where there was like a constant drip, drip of information coming out about what they were doing about Trump throughout that entire Russia inquiry. We just don't know a lot about what the justice department is thinking about trying the former president. And until we have information about how strongly they think the case is how merit Garland is thinking about the political consequences of indicting a former president. It's, there's just too many variables for me or anyone else on the outside to be able to make some kind of authoritative assessment. Hey,

0 (8m 30s):
Do you think Merick Garland knows if Trump will be charged?

4 (8m 34s):
I don't know if he knows he may not have made up his mind yet. Right? Like the, the thing is they just got these documents, federal

1 (8m 41s):
Law, longstanding department rules, and our ethical obligations prevent me from providing further details as to the basis of the search at this

4 (8m 52s):
Time. They probably need to go over them and look at them and then look at the evidence that any other evidence they got from the search of Mar Lago, right? Like, did they learn more about how it was secured there? And then there are also like other prosecutions there's investigations of Trump in Georgia about his election interference. Allegedly there's two different cases in New York, at least, right? Like one at the state level and one at the Manhattan level of relating to the Trump or organization's business practices. And so we have all of these different legal lines of inquiry into the president. Then there's the one that we know the justice department is pursuing related to classify documents.

4 (9m 35s):
And like any one of these could result in an indictment of Trump down the line. We just, we just don't know where they're going. One piece of information Garland does have is he, he knows what the documents were. And since we don't know, we don't know how seriously dangerous it was that they were there. And the more serious they are, the more Garland may feel that he has no choice, but to indict the president,

1 (10m 3s):
This is all I can say right now, more information will be made available in the appropriate way and at the appropriate time. Thank you.

10 (10m 17s):
This is advertiser content brought to you by AbbVie.

11 (10m 21s):
We're always trying to understand how do we stop disease, right? Disease comes in. We try to stop it. That's how we practice medicine. An interesting thought would be, what if we actually didn't get disease? What if we prevented disease? Hi, my name is Howard Jacob. I'm a vice president at AbbVie. I had the genomic research center and I also had our data integration across R and D

10 (10m 48s):
Better. Medicine starts with better information. So Howard and AbbVie have been studying a collection of more than 1 million human genomes to advance our understanding of disease.

11 (10m 58s):
It's a large amount of data. Your DNA extended end to end from all of your a hundred trillion cells would go to the sun and back 666.5 times.

10 (11m 9s):
All of that genetic information will have major implications for the future of healthcare. Helping doctors tailor treatment to every patient's needs.

11 (11m 17s):
For many genes, there are tests where you can actually say, oh, this is the dose you should take. This is when you should take it. And this is why you're taking it. It opens the door for prescribing medications differently and at different doses for each individual,

10 (11m 31s):
Their work is already saving lives, but genetic researchers are far from satisfied.

11 (11m 36s):
I just know that we can do more. I know we can enable physicians to practice medicine better. I know we can enable patients to live healthier lives. I know we can develop better therapies and we just have to do it

10 (11m 48s):
To learn more about how AbbVie is shaping the future of medicine. Visit here now.abb B I E

3 (11m 57s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them. The world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology, that money will help provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us, but that's just a start. Having ambitious goals is what helps the world make meaningful progress. And it's going to take all of us working together to make sure we continue to move in the right direction because to address these worldwide problems, it's going to take worldwide action.

3 (12m 45s):
It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg.

12 (12m 58s):
My parents

0 (13m 1s):
It's today explained to ner well king we're back with V's Zach beam and Zach, I guess there were always gonna be two big questions. What might Donald Trump have done? And how would the Republican party respond to all of this messiness?

4 (13m 16s):
Republicans had an opportunity to say, okay, we got really mad about Hillary Clinton's storing classified information improperly on her private server in 2016,

12 (13m 30s):
Secretary Clinton sent and received emails that contained highly classified information. If the average American did that, they'd lose their clearance, their job, and might even go to jail.

4 (13m 47s):
And maybe we should apply the same standard to what is what looks to be a much, much, much more serious mishandling of much, much, much more serious classified information. They decided to do the exact opposite of that. So the entire response of the Republican party as a, as an organized institution has been to say, this is a politically motivated witch hunt.

13 (14m 9s):
The FBI rate of president Trump is a complete abuse and overreach of its authority

4 (14m 14s):
To double down on the idea that the FBI and the justice department are tools of the Democrats, the deep state and the capital R regime.

14 (14m 22s):
So I think every Republican believes that the FBI, when it comes to Trump and other organizations have lost their mind,

4 (14m 31s):
It seems like nearly the entire apparatus of the Republican party from the institutional party to state local officials, to conservative media, they've all aligned themselves with Trumper, said nothing with just a handful of prominent party members starting to speak out against Trump and in support of the FBI,

0 (14m 48s):
Mike Pence.

4 (14m 49s):
Yeah, the, this one was actually a little bit surprising, but it seems like Pence despite taking a, you know, somewhat Craven position after, you know, being literally threatened to be hanged by Trump supporters on January 6th is starting to be a little bit more outspoken in positioning himself in opposition to some of Trump's dance. Not, not all of them. He hasn't said he wouldn't vote for Trump or anything, but he said, and I quote, these attacks on the FBI must stop calls to defund. The FBI are just as wrong as calls to defund the police. That this is a really interesting line, right? Like that's the pushback that you've been seeing from some of the more, never Trumpy, very establishment minded Republicans who are frustrated with the Trumpy wings, anti FBI demagogy, but Pence is, I would say probably the most prominent Republican to take this position.

4 (15m 40s):
So publicly,

0 (15m 41s):
Let me ask you about the Republicans who didn't take the Mike Pence route. How did house minority leader Kevin McCarthy respond

4 (15m 51s):
Called for an investigation into Merrick Garland, as soon as he takes the speaker's gavel,

15 (15m 59s):
Why would you go to this level without just communicating that's what's different to me? Why would you wait, have him wait so many questions? I think all of America's asked,

4 (16m 7s):
Which could be as soon as 2023, if McCarthy, in fact, does retake the house, he's gonna conduct a politically motivated inquiry into a neutral investigation that he is alleging was in fact politically motivated, which is Orwellian in one sense, but also disturbing in another, because it's, it's the weaponization of the us house against one of the core institutions of us democracy, a a, a guardrail that prevents the abuse of power by powerful people.

0 (16m 38s):
How did Florida's governor Ron DeSantis respond? Yeah,

4 (16m 42s):
Look, DeSantis is the only plausible 2024 candidate, except for Trump. He also could have gone in, in two directions trying to position himself as somebody who didn't do these terrible things that Trump did in advance of the 20, 24 race. Again, he did the opposite of that.

16 (16m 57s):
They're enforcing the law based on who they like and who they don't like. That is not a Republic. Well, it may be it's a banana Republic. When that happens

4 (17m 8s):
Shortly after the news broke, he sent a tweet, accusing the search as being an operation of the capital R regime, which is a term that you typically find associated with a sort of fringe, right? Intellectuals on the internet. The idea of using that term is to claim that there's a kind of shadowy cabal of people who actually run the government, a confluence of big business and entrenched liberal interests and academia, and like this whole Milan of different liberal forces in society, as, as they see it, right? And the government is doing their bidding in this case for him to say that to essentially accuse the searches, being part of a conspiracy against conservatives, it's really profoundly disturbing.

4 (17m 53s):
He's not only putting himself on Trump's team. He's putting himself on the same team as the more conspiratorial elements of the Trumpist coalition.

0 (18m 0s):
What did Senate minority leader Mitch McConnell say?

4 (18m 3s):
Ah, now Mitch McConnell is he's a little cagey, right? So McConnell basically said, you know, we need to see some serious evidence about this. He asked to see the warrant. He wanted to understand what was going on. He was, I would say the most influential and powerful Republican not to jump on the, this is a conspiracy train. He didn't condemn them either, which would be the responsible thing to do he, again, trying to do this balancing act between not going full Trumpist, but also not rejecting that tendency of the Republican party in case he needs it.

0 (18m 38s):
And a question we have to ask is, is there any merit to what Trump supporters in Congress are saying that this raid was politically motivated?

4 (18m 46s):
Garland decided based on the evidence that he had and actually quite a long period of time of negotiating with Trump to try to get the documents back. And Trump was not just like handing them over that they had no choice, but to send people, to execute a search warrant and take the documents which they did, they then provided a listing of what the documents are. At least in broad strokes. Most of them just said, like the level of classification of the documents in a particular box, one of them said information re president of France, which is hilarious. I'm like really curious what it is that about Emmanuel macro, that Trump took home. But like, we know that the documents were there now, right?

4 (19m 26s):
They took them out of Malago. They, they existed, right? This isn't just some kind of made up thing designed to get Trump and make him look bad. He had, he had the things that he should not have had and they took them away. And then the question is whether what he did constitutes a federal offense under the espionage act or some other statutes, maybe we'll find out. But right now we have every indication that this was very cautiously pursued deliberately over the course of months after Trump refused to turn over the documents without the FBI showing up. So I like, I just don't know what to tell people who see this as a conspiracy theory. Like I get why you're concerned about it, especially if you voted for Trump in 2020, but you can't let those concerns turn into like a totally unreasonable suspicion of something that based on what we see right now really does appear to be on the level.

0 (20m 18s):
Are there any Republicans who have come out and said, I don't support Donald Trump on this. Even Mike Pence kind of hedged and said, don't mess with law enforcement, don't mess with the FBI.

4 (20m 28s):
They're few and far between you're Liz Cheney and your Adam kins zingers, right? People who are, are, are very, very already like skeptical of what the Republican party is doing with Trump. And, and basically hate him this past weekend. Brian Fitzpatrick, who's a Republican from Pennsylvania, went on face the nation and basically told other Republicans like, don't jump to conclusions about the federal government is doing, they are not your enemy.

17 (20m 55s):
We live in a democracy. That's 246 years old. That's not long, that's just a few generations. And yet we're the world's oldest democracy. And the only way that can come unraveled is if we have disrespect for our institutions that lead to Americans, turning on American and, and the, the whole system becomes unraveled. And a lot of that starts with the words we're using.

4 (21m 16s):
And this is notable because Fitzpatrick himself is a former FBI agent, right? Like he is direct experience with the kind of people who are executing this search. And like he should know. And, and I think most of us do that. The FBI does overstep its authority. It has a history of, let's say non-ideal behavior and the justice. Department's not above criticism either, but at the same time, there are also professionals who have rules and professional standards, where

0 (21m 42s):
Do ordinary Americans who support Donald Trump fit into this, the rate on Margo happens. And then what do we see civilians doing?

4 (21m 52s):
It seems based on what I've seen so far, that pretty much everyone who supports Trump have come to see it through the conspiratorial lens that he's created

18 (21m 60s):
After what happened on Monday, we have to show our support for the president, the real president anyway,

20 (22m 6s):
Yeah. By administration, the Democrats are weaponizing the FBI and it has to stop. The FBI is not here to weaponize against another president. It never has happened before,

4 (22m 17s):
But the degree to which you are, you're willing to act on that. And you're, you're willing to make that into a defining element of your political personality is heavily mediated by how into this world you are, right. There's a lot of stuff coming out from the people who are like super hardcore Maga types about how this is a prelude, or maybe even the beginning of a second civil war.

21 (22m 42s):
Listen, I'm just like you I've seen what happened to Trump. Yeah. Let's go time. Everybody knows exactly what I'm talking about.

4 (22m 51s):
And, and that, that kind of talk is horrifying. It's often very loose, right? Most of these people have no idea what a civil war entails and less of an incentive to actually pursue a violent insurgency against the government. But we've already seen at the fringes, some violence, right? You may have heard reports about an attack on an FBI building

19 (23m 9s):
When the suspect wearing body armor and carrying a nail gun and long gun tried to breach the FBI's visitor screening center in Cincinnati. The FBI says agents confronted the suspect before he fled leading to a car chase.

4 (23m 22s):
And the man was killed after an unsuccessful attempt to negotiate him down by police. But that guy, as far as we can tell, you know, he's a, he's a frequent poster on truth social, which is Trump's proprietary, Twitter knockoff, social media platform, and had been posting a lot about how angry he was about the raid and how he needed to do something. And it was time to act. And then he wrote something about his attempt to breach the FBI building. And like that kind of case is at, in extremis, the, the logical endpoint of this rhetoric that the government is fundamentally hostile to Republicans. Cuz if you believe that the government is in fact part of a shadowy regime, that's bent on destroying the party that you see as standing for political freedom in the United States and destroying the person that you voted for in 2020, would you just sit back and take it, or would you do something about it?

4 (24m 13s):
It's the exact same logic that motivated people to attack the capital in January 6th, a deep and sincere belief in a conspiracy theory about a country being stolen from them.

0 (24m 23s):
What does all of this disarray mean for an institution that Americans for the most part 10, 15, 20 years ago seem to trust more or less the FBI are we witnessing a sea change in the way Americans think about the FBI?

4 (24m 39s):
Look, I see what's happening to public perceptions of, of federal law enforcement as a symptom of a, a broader disease, right? There's just been a, a pretty wide collapse in trust in government institutions across the board. And that owes primarily to, I, I mean, among other causes to political polarization, to a sense that when a government institution makes decisions that go against your party, that they are acting immorally, illegally improperly, et cetera. And then also by members of the two parties.

4 (25m 22s):
But I, I, I think in my judgment, especially Republicans working to politicize these institutions either like in the case of the Supreme court, treating it as a political post, basically in terms of how appointments work and ensuring that they get a majority on it to change policy. And in terms of the FBI and the justice department deliberately trying to cast them as political actors, even when they're not acting politically, people are so identified with their political parties that attacks from one party on an institution are less likely to undermine the party than they are to undermine the institution itself. I think we are starting to see polarization of opinions about the justice department and the FBI, but that's part of a, a much bigger problem that is chipping away at the kind of broad based respect for government that's at the heart of American democracy.

0 (26m 24s):
Today's episode was produced by Victoria Chamberlain. It was edited by arm El. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard, twice fun story there. I'll tell you sometime it was engineered by the great Shapiro I'm Noel king it's today explained.