1 (4s):
Good morning. It's about 7:00 AM and I'm allowed to measure out my micro dose for the day. I've got my little scale, kind of like a envelope scale can measure down to the 10th of a gram, even lower than that. But I just need to know to the 10th of a gram, I've got some mushroom powder. Basically I took the, the mushrooms that I buy and put them in a coffee grinder, grind them down into a powder. I tend to just pour it into water and then just kinda mix it up

3 (53s):
The promise of microdosing ahead on. Today's explain.

1 (57s):
All right. So I'm now gonna head off to work

3 (1m 11s):
It's today. I explained I'm Sean Rama's from at the top of the show you heard from an every day micro desert, and we're going to keep him anonymous because while micro dosing is becoming popular in the United States and is yet to become legal in most places on the show today, we want to understand the mainstreaming of micro dosing. So we reached out to Dana Smith. She's a freelance science journalist who recently wrote about the phenomenon and whether or not it really works for the New York times.

5 (1m 39s):
Microdosing is instead of taking a large amount of a psychedelic where you're going to have the kind of classic hallucinogenic trip, it's taking a very, very small amount. So really just five to 10% of a normal dose. And people take it in the morning, like a cup of coffee. You really don't feel hi people. Describe it as kind of like everything's a little bit sparkly, a little bit shiny. And you had one person described as kind of like life in high definition. So the goal is not to feel like you're high. It's not to feel like you're tripping. It's really just to have a little bit of a boost throughout the day, potentially in kind of cognitive processes like attention, creativity, focus, things like that. And then also for just kind of wellbeing. And some people are also using it to treat mental health disorders.

3 (2m 22s):
What got you interested in microdosing?

5 (2m 25s):
I got a PhD studying drug addiction about eight years ago And I was doing my PhD in England and Imperial college. London is one of the kind of main re research hubs for psychedelic research. They were the first to put people in an MRI scanner while they were on LSD or psilocybin and actually see what was happening in the brain. So all that research was happening while I was getting my PhD up the road in Cambridge, also sitting drugs, but focusing on cocaine and heroin is kind of the more classic kind of problem drugs, quote unquote. Yes, I got interested in kinda the potential of psychedelic therapy from kind of a research standpoint.

5 (3m 5s):
And then when I made the transition to science journalism kind of kept my eye on it as just getting a bigger and bigger trend and with more and more solid research behind it. So it's something that I've been interested in in written about a couple of times as a journalist. Now Microdosing has been a trend for about the last 10 years or so. It's really come onto the radar of popular culture with a lot of people in Silicon valley doing it.

6 (3m 32s):
Yeah. That's not a name that I found. It's a name that found me on a vision quest

5 (3m 37s):
Largely for people wanting boosts in creativity or energy are kind of the, the main claims around it. Okay.

7 (3m 43s):
I eat a bunch of drugs and sit out in the desert and hoped them name randomly pops in my head.

6 (3m 48s):
Well, then I questioned your leadership.

5 (3m 49s):
I guess the history kind of goes back even further because it kind of the resurgence or the Renaissance of psychedelics.

8 (3m 54s):
The goal of this trip is ecstasy.

5 (3m 59s):
So psychedelics and psychedelic therapy are having a huge moment right now because they're showing kind of legitimate possibility as therapies for depression and PTSD and some other mental health disorders

9 (4m 12s):
Bite his bad reputation. We need to ask the question, What does this mushroom know that we don't? What does it do that we can't?

5 (4m 29s):
It seems to kind of fall into three camps. One is for kind of as almost like a performance enhancer. So this was the initial claims that people saw out of Silicon valley, where, you know, everyone's talking about a little bit of increased attention, better focus. Creativity is another big one that people say is that it helps them see connections that they might not otherwise have seen. Another main reason is for just kind of improved wellbeing, just feeling better. People are using it to self-medicate if they have depression or anxiety. And they say that it helps with their mood and helps with their symptoms. And then third camp is just kind of recreational. You know, it's still a recreational drug. People do it because it feels good. So some people are using it in the evening to unwind instead of, you know, having a beer or a glass of wine, say

3 (5m 12s):
What drugs are, people microdosing.

5 (5m 15s):
The main ones are LSD and psilocybin, which is the key hallucinogenic component of magic mushrooms for LSD. It's like 10 to 20 micrograms. And then for mushrooms or for siliciden, it's about like one to three milligrams of psilocybin mushrooms. It's harder to get a precise amount because you don't actually know how much psilocybin is in a mushroom and you don't know how concentrated it is. And kind of like where in the mushroom it is. So it's really a pretty imprecise science. Most people don't actually measure their doses. They just take, you know, a tiny dropper of LSD or just like a little nibble of a mushroom. But the goal is for really like very, very low threshold feeling of a psychedelic high.

3 (5m 54s):
How much do you feel it comparing this to like an anti-anxiety medication? What's the experience?

5 (6m 0s):
It varies a little bit in some of the literature, it says that you shouldn't feel it at all, that it should be really sub-threshold. So you're taking so small, the dose that you might not be aware that it's working, but you distrust that something is happening.

1 (6m 13s):
So it's been about an hour and a half since I took the dose and I'm already starting to feel the effects

5 (6m 20s):
On the other side. Some people are taking it too. You know, they, they do want to feel something.

1 (6m 24s):
I oftentimes have a kind of general anxiety in the morning that started to go away. As I was driving to work, that anxiety was replaced with kind of general sense of before we peace and calm. And, and in the moment in or presence in this, all the, all the kind of cliche things that people say,

5 (6m 48s):
One person I talked to, you said that on a scale of one to 10, he aims for about a two or three. So he's aware that he's taking it, things feel a little bit different, a little bit, you know, kind of shiny or happier, but it's definitely, you know, far from a full, full psychedelic high.

3 (7m 1s):
I mean, you wrote about this in the New York times and you talked to a couple people who microdose recreationally, what do they say, keeps them coming back.

5 (7m 9s):
They see that it helps them. You know, most of the people I talked to were using it because they had symptoms of depression or anxiety, and they really didn't want to be on a standard SSRI or antidepressant drug. And they said that it really helped them and improve their mood. They just felt a little bit happier. They felt a little bit more kind of in control of their feelings and just really had kind of a, an emotional boost throughout the day. And so they're taking it, you know, maybe a couple of times a week. So it's not every day. It's not like a medication that you take every morning, but you would take it, you know, maybe one to three times a week.

1 (7m 46s):
So I just finished teaching my first two courses of the day and I'm still feeling very good. I actually think that when I microdose it actually helps me to be a better teacher actually, because I can kind of be more, I know this is cliche to say when I'm a little bit more in the moment and not really thinking about, you know, all the other things I need to do, I can just kind of focus on the moment about what the students need, what the discussion needs at that point. And I think I can foster just a better teaching environment. I have a couple more classes to teach later today or send another tape after I teach my, my next two classes this afternoon.

3 (8m 41s):
The science of microdosing is up next on today. Explain They explained we're back. And it's time to dig into the science of microdosing with science journalist, Dana Smith.

5 (9m 3s):
Yeah. The science is really interesting with microdosing. So a lot of the research that's happening is by the scientists who were studying the large doses to begin with. And it's interesting because it's a case of the science really following the trend. So researchers were staying the large doses and found a lot of efficacy for people with depression, PTSD, and other mental health disorders. It, you know, it's, it's pretty clear that things like siliciden and potentially LSD and MTMA really can help people with, with mental health disorders. And so then, you know, they saw the trend just like the rest of us did. And so they started studying microdosing as well. And it's a little bit trickier there.

5 (9m 45s):
So a lot of the early studies are just plain surveys. So you just ask people who microdose kind of why they do it and what benefits they feel. And then people report a lot of things I mentioned earlier, you know, better wellbeing, better attention, better cognition, but that is really tricky because it's all self-reports, there is no placebo. You're not actually testing anything. When you get people into a lab again, without a placebo, they report the same thing. So even on cognitive tests, they'll show better performance. They'll show better scores on a depression score for instance. But finally there have just in the last year started to be placebo controlled trials and all of a sudden those effects went away.

5 (10m 26s):
So if you give people either a microdose or a placebo and you don't tell them which one, they get everyone in the study improves, but that means that there's, there's a placebo effect happening. So if you improve, when you have a placebo and there's no greater improvement compared to the microdose, then it's really hard to say that there's actually an effect of the drug that's happening. It's just your expectation. And in one of the studies that came out of Imperial, they actually asked people what they thought they had taken at the end of the study. And people were more likely to see an improvement in their mood and wellbeing. If they thought they had taken a microdose, regardless of what they got. And they were less likely to show an improvement if they thought they had taken a placebo, regardless of what they got.

5 (11m 10s):
So the expectation effect was really a bigger driver than the drug itself in terms of how people improved over the course of the study.

3 (11m 18s):
Okay. So in what we know so far, there's a real expectation effect of placebo effect here for people. When we're talking about a micro dose, is there science out there for when you bump it up to a full dose?

5 (11m 30s):
Yes. Yeah. There's a lot of research on that. Those are very controlled experiments. It's really hard to do a placebo for a full dose of a hallucinogen. You pretty quickly know what you've gotten or not. So there are not really placebo-controlled trials, as you can imagine, but there is a lot of rigorous research around psychedelic therapy where people have several intensive therapy sessions. Then they a therapy session while they're receiving a very large dose of LSD or psilocybin. And then they have follow-up appointments afterwards. And there've been a couple of clinical trials that have shown that people actually have as much of a benefit as they do with kind of standard SSRI or, you know, kind of typical antidepressant drugs.

5 (12m 11s):
So there are numerous studies that have come out now that really do show a pretty clear benefit of psychedelic therapy with those large doses. It's just that the micro doses, it's a not quite as clear cut.

3 (12m 22s):
And should we assume that until the science is a little more clear here, there, isn't going to be sort of this mainstreaming of microdosing across the country?

5 (12m 30s):
Well, for one thing, I mean these drugs are illegal. So, you know, I, you could say that in some ways it already is mainstream because we're even talking about it. You know, like this is a pretty big trend that's happening. The question is will microdose be FDA approved to treat anxiety or depression, those larger clinical trials for the larger doses. That's kind of already in the works for FDA approval of psilocybin. You know, it's, it's not happening yet, but that is what people are kind of anticipating and hoping for. By the end of the decade, the question then becomes, can you market or prescribe a microdose of psilocybin? And that's where you really want to see that it works because you can't prescribe something that's no better than a placebo.

5 (13m 11s):
They're like really big ethical implications there. So that's why it's really important to do this research now to see if the benefit is really real or not. Or if it's just an expectation effect. One thing I will say is that it's not quite as simple as just placebo controlled trials. Didn't see anything. Therefore it doesn't work because there are a couple of studies that are looking at what micro doses of psychedelics do in the brain. And they're, it's, it's pretty clear that something is happening. So with, you know, kind of larger micro doses about, you know, 10% of her full dose, instead of 5%, you can see that there are changes happening in the brain in terms of people's activity, in terms of the serotonin receptors, that is the primary target that the drugs are working on in the brain.

5 (13m 56s):
And you can see that something's happening there. That's kind of similar, but just smaller than a full dose of a psychedelic. So it's not that the micro doses are doing nothing. They're doing something in the brain. It's just a question of whether that corresponds to them, doing something for people in terms of behavior and mental health and things like that. So it's a really interesting conundrum right now of whether the effect is real or not.

3 (14m 17s):
You mentioned that these drugs are still legal, but they're not illegal everywhere. I know Oregon has at least legalized mushrooms. What are the ways these drugs are being used therapeutically, despite being illegal in most of the country?

11 (14m 32s):
Look, the state is very libertarian on drug laws. And I do think it's the beginning of something. Oregon is expected to have a ballot initiative in 2020 that would actually legalize psilocybin therapy. So guided psilocybin experiences and reduce penalties for recreational use. And there's a group in California who would like to get it on the ballot here.

5 (14m 55s):
You're right. Oregon was the first state to legalize psilocybin. And a big part of that was the push around their potential as a therapeutic, as an antidepressant

12 (15m 3s):
In a separate 2020 ballot initiative, Oregon voters also opted to legalize psilocybin, the psychoactive compound and magic mushrooms for use in therapeutic settings. Regulators have until January 20, 23 to begin issuing licenses.

5 (15m 18s):
So there definitely are clinicians either through clinical trials, you know, through actually university led clinical trials where people can enroll to take primarily MTMA for PTSD, or silicide been for depression. There's definitely one way that people can seek out and try and get therapy that way and try and using that way. There are also, you know, underground networks of therapists who are prescribing these drugs. So the movement is definitely happening. They're just not legal on a federal level yet, and they're not FDA approved to be used therapeutically yet.

3 (15m 51s):
DC's trying, I know maybe if they can pull it off, it'll convince all the federal government to like to hang with with psychedelics

13 (15m 57s):
And then in the psychedelic world, Alexandria <inaudible> Cortez. I hope I said that correctly. I guess people usually just say AOC has just introduced an amendment to a larger spending bill that would take away this language that has been there since the nineties that basically says there, you can't use federal funds funds for any activity that promotes the legalization of any drug or other substance in schedule one.

5 (16m 23s):
I mean, they just shut down. I think another effort to legalize marijuana there. So I think that might be a stretch

13 (16m 29s):
She's focusing on psychedelics here and she wants, she wants research to really just open up. So

5 (16m 34s):
That might be the last place to turn over. I don't know,

3 (16m 37s):
Like marijuana though, this could be a pretty big market, right? Which is to say something to tax.

5 (16m 43s):
Oh, absolutely. I mean, people right now are estimating it's about a 2 billion market right now and it could be 10 million in the next five years. I mean, this is massive, massive money. They do have a really strong potential of helping people, but there are a lot of questions that still need to be worked out. And that's why figuring out whether the benefit of microdosing is real or not is, is a big deal because there's a lot of money behind this. People could really start to market this pretty quickly. And so you need to actually show that a drug works and that, that a specific dose of it works to help people beyond a placebo before companies can start marketing it, promoting it and prescribing it.

1 (17m 25s):
So I just finished teaching my last class and I'm now headed home. I no longer am really feeling any of like the direct affects of the microdose, but I still feel pretty positive, happy, still calm before all the kind of promotions I mentioned before had a good day of classes, another positive microdosing day. And I'm going to do it again later this week.

3 (18m 11s):
Dennis Smith is a freelance science reporter. You can find her and her work@danagsmith.com. Our program today was produced by miles. Bryan edited by Matthew collect and me fact checked by Tori Domingas and engineered by Paul mousey. The rest of the tape explained team includes Victoria Chamberlin. We'll read Heidi, Milwaukee, D and Halima Shaw. Our supervising producer is Amina Al society. Our other hosts is Noel king. Our VP of audio is Liz Kelly Nelson, and we used music from Breakmaster cylinder. And no I'm Hassenfeld. I'm Sean Rama's from today explained as part of the Vox media podcast network.