4 (0s):
Before we start the show if you guys heard marketplace with Kyra, is it all on the radio? Did you know Chi also has a podcast it's called make me smart from Marketplace and it's just what you need to feel a little bit smarter. They connect the dots about, you know, Tech and culture in the economy to help make your world make a little bit more sense. Kai is joined by his co-host mollywood and you can find make me smart wherever you listen to podcasts believe it or not.

4 (30s):
George Floyd will be buried next to his mother in Houston, Texas today two weeks and a day after he called out for her while Minneapolis Police Officer, Derek Chauvin mercilessly, extinguished his life ever since the people of Minneapolis have been calling to defund. And the city's Police Department on Saturday protesters gathered in front of Minneapolis. Mayor, Jacob fries house. He came out to join them and was asked Point Blank if he would dismantle the city's police department and his answer was no Fry was booed and jeered at as he walked up.

4 (1m 27s):
The next day nine members of the Minneapolis city council stood on stage at a community rally and pledged to do exactly what mayor fry would not this council is going to dismantle this Police Department. And our city is toxic relationship with the Minneapolis Police Department to end the policing as we know it and to recreate systems of Public Safety that actually keep us safe. This ain't gonna happen overnight the same gonna happen tomorrow. We need everybody's voices included. I encourage all of our officers who are still on duty to continue to do your work with compassion with respect and We're going to need every single human to be a part of this project.

4 (2m 14s):
The last voice you heard was city council member Alondra Cano. She represents Minneapolis is Ninth Ward were George Floyd was killed by Derek Chauvin. We reached out to Cano on Monday to ask what exactly she and her eight fellow council members want to do right. Now. What we did was unite nine council members in agreement that the Minneapolis department is not reformable. In agreement that we are committed to ending the current policing structure we have in unison that we are committed to working on a new system of safety with and for our community by engaging every single resident in Minneapolis that is willing to have this conversation with us and committed to looking at policy and budgetary changes in the coming weeks and months to get us on a trajectory to end the current broken system.

4 (3m 10s):
And come up with a renewed system that is centered in community. Justice trust respect compassion love so we're we're retooling that whole Paradigm. So does that mean it's still largely symbolic right. Now, you could say that it is a strong signal of the direction of the future of policing for Minneapolis. You can look at the fact that night. none of us got together publicly nine council members is a veto-proof majority of the council so we can override actions from our mayor if need be on this topic and I think that all of us were unflinchingly clear that the current policing system is going to come to an end and that we are putting ourselves on a clear path to reimagining what policing looks like and that we're going to With our community and the nine of you are in opposition to Minneapolis.

4 (4m 15s):
Mayor Jacob Frye on this he wants to reform you want to dismantle. How come I used to be a reformist? I believe that we could make changes from within but when I saw that for police officers in broad daylight assisted and participated in the murder of a man who was already handcuffed and on the ground, really really Made me understand the deepness of this problem and the fact that all four of them violated City policy and the directives from their own Chief. That's when I realized that policing as we know it had to end. So you guys took this value on Sunday.

4 (4m 58s):
What's the reaction been? There's been many many emails and many people coming to our backing. There's an understanding that nine council members and a mayor. Be able to do it alone that Community will need to and want to show up every step of the way in this what about the opposition? Are you hearing anything back from people that they're scared that they don't have confidence that this is the best idea. Of course. I'm hearing a lot of folks be concerned with a violent crimes. So what's if we abolish the police system who's going to respond to a shooting who's going to respond to our rape? Who's going to respond to a homicide?

4 (5m 39s):
We're going to answer those questions together. We know that the current system isn't keeping people safe. I know people are in a moment of as my counsel colleague Lisa Bender says a moment of fear. And for for those folks who are white and for the first time are feeling unsafe. We invite you into the experiences of communities of color every day. This is what the system that they've been living and experiencing for a very long time. So it's a coming to moment. Give me a sense of how much money is on the line here for the police department. And for the police Union and what percentage of that money is of the budget you guys have an the city Minneapolis Police Department. Is that about a hundred and ninety-three million dollars, there will be inevitable cards coming to the entire city because of the losses due to the coronavirus and we are in the process now of engaging with our colleagues to decide what that future of funding looks like a hundred.

4 (6m 34s):
Ninety three million is and how much is the budget of the city just to get a sense of what percentage that is like one? Point five billion 1.3 billion and as we establish our show last week abolishing police defunding police doesn't necessarily mean. Oh now we have a hundred ninety million dollars to dream up purpose for it means that you're rethinking how Safety and Security is managed in your community. How do you see that money being repurposed in this early stage of rethinking how your safety Works in Minneapolis? So many of us who either are a - or you know don't want identifies an abolitionist but are certainly interested in ending the current system.

4 (7m 14s):
We know that this change won't happen overnight and likely will have sort of two systems up and running at the same time until we can finally get to a point of not having to rely on the other for immediate High violent crimes or other issues that people might typically want a police officer to respond to one of the biggest barriers to passing this kind of Reform. I know you're Saying traditional please performs haven't really worked. This is a much more drastic and revolutionary measure. I mean your mayor has said that he's not on board with this you guys it appears have the votes to bypass him. What comes after him.

4 (7m 56s):
Well, I think we have more opportunities than barriers because now the state is heavily involved. I think we're in a moment of radical collaboration where people who Don't care before are on board ready to sign up to do work. Whether it's volunteer work research work, which is what we need. We need people to believe that this is the path forward and many of them do in ways. They didn't before and we're all signing up for it. Does it feel like it's happening really quickly like yeah, three weeks ago. No one was even talking about these ideas seriously and you've gone from there to protesters clamoring for them to now you guys eyes are actually taking the steps to make them a reality.

4 (8m 42s):
Does it feel like the clips a little dizzying? You know, I'll say that it has felt very intense. I don't know that it feels fast, but it's certainly very intense because we know that the entire nation is watching what we do and we know that this is a pivotal moment in our country's history. We know there's deep racial inequities in our city that we're trying to solve. So I feel like we've put on our shoes tie them and we were at the start. Laughs and it was just a matter of figuring out when it would be ready set. Go. Do you think other cities might follow your lead if you guys pull this off I do I already have council members reaching out to me from across the country saying hey, how did you get nine councilmembers out what happened send us your thoughts and this your notes where people reaching out from out of curiosity Detroit San Antonio certainly in touch with folks from La Seattle, Washington, I think was one so it's Been really good to see that interest before we go.

4 (9m 43s):
I just would love to get a sense. You know, what did these two weeks been like for you in Minneapolis? I mean, we've been talking about Minneapolis. But but you've been living Minneapolis give me a sense of what this is felt like to be on the ground there. It's it feels like leaving the Matrix feels scary and slow and fast at the same time. Your point because there's so much work that we want to get done right now and we know that you can only move as fast as your relationships and the trust that you have in the community at at one point in time, you know, there was deep sadness because of the murder of mr.

4 (10m 23s):
George Floyd and sort of the the shame and the guilt that comes around that because you're an elected official that should have been able to prevent that and then there were moments of happiness because we would be on an organizing call for the fifth night in a row. Being about the beautiful future that we know our communities deserve and want and can get and so it's been a very strange mix of both possibility and feeling the weight of the old systems. So it's been pretty surreal. And for the first time on my blog since I moved here back in I think 2017. I know all my neighbors and I have all their phone numbers and we all meet together on the Block once a week to talk.

4 (11m 9s):
About how are we going to patrol the neighborhood? How are we going to keep each other safe? And so it's truly inspiring in that way and reassuring in so many ways as well councilmember. I wish you luck and I hope you can be in touch with us as you go through this process. Would love to hear more about it. Yeah, please do stay in touch. I appreciate you all reaching out. This might feel like Uncharted Territory, but it's not after the break we go to Camden, New Jersey where they dissolve their Police Department seven years ago.

4 (12m 9s):
It's today explained. I'm Sean Rama's firm. And here's where we stand. There are people in the streets demanding the dismantling of police departments across the country. The president is stepping in to stoke fears that there will be Mayhem in the streets and places like Minneapolis are forging ahead undeterred. But seven years ago Camden, New Jersey dissolved its Police Department without starting a culture War historically in New Jersey. Police contracts were very difficult to work through and the end result was that officers were they there were requirements of certain amounts of overtime or sick leave and it ended up being very expensive to run that Force. So one day the Canton Police Department just poof went away and Milgram is the former Attorney General of New Jersey and back when Camden had one of the highest murder rates in the country.

4 (13m 0s):
She was brought in to initiate reforms eventually the city of Camden Police. Aunt was dissolved and reborn as the Camden County Police Department. Yes, they just change the word but they change other stuff too for starters. They got rid of everyone all of a sudden with the dissolution of the Camden Police Department. All of those employees were gone. The salaries were changed the structure of overtime was changed the ability to hire. So if you had a senior police officer who is 20 years on the job who's making let's say, you know with overtime a hundred thousand. Thousand dollars a year you then had new officers coming on at like 40 or 50 thousand dollars a year and that means you can hire two officers.

4 (13m 44s):
First of all and you also can start Shifting the culture to have folks who didn't grow up in a department that was resistant to reforms like tracking officer discipline, like accountability measures where you know, somebody's going to ask you every week like why is crime going up in that neighborhood so the policies and the process has changed the people changed the name. Changed as you pointed out by adding a word but essentially, you know, the old Union contracts were gone. There were new rules that were put in place and it allowed the new leadership really to institutionalize all the reforms that they wanted to make and you were no longer dealing with like The Chronic absenteeism. Right? Like there was a point in time with the canopy dear. I think it was like 25 or 30% of the officers were just absent from work under the old policies that could not happen under the new policies under the new department.

4 (14m 32s):
So it just allowed everything too. Will be built from the ground up and how did it go? You hire back a bunch of the same people you hire a bunch of new people you change the rules you Institute reforms what came of them. So crime is a 50-year low in Camden. It's really the lowest it's been and so what I think is is as important is that the beat officers are now Community police officers. There are officers. I talked to some of this morning who was standing on the streets of Camden standing ten feet from a police officer. Go back to that first day. I went down and unmarked car. I didn't see a single officer. I was there not long ago over sort of January. There are officers on street corners. There are people in the community and there's just a connection of hearing and being heard that's different than I've seen in any other police department.

4 (15m 19s):
I've worked with the reforms last were they sort of impervious to the politics of managing Police Department's yeah. I mean, look, I personally believe in others to disagree with this. But once once we showed that the city could be Safe and everyone understood that the police department could be accountable both running themselves as an institution with integrity and reducing crime. I don't think anyone wanted to go back. And so what you saw was just the acceleration of that and the acceleration of the reforms with the county. If you asked me could they do more? I mean the short answer is of course do keep in touch with Camden. Thank you. How's the city looked like in the past few weeks where we've seen, you know police brutality in Los Angeles in Minneapolis and New York City.

4 (16m 5s):
Yeah, I mean the chief of police reached out to the community leaders basically said can I march with you against police violence and you know as we've seen a lot of places where there's been confrontations between the police and the protesters and in Camden we saw like, you know something that I think is so remarkable and so important the police standing in unity and solidarity with the community to say like no to police violence. Sighs so have this strong there's been pushed back on those moments because people say like, oh, yeah. This happened ten minutes before we started getting tear gas has there has there been that subsequent tension between police and protesters in Camden not in Camden and look at where he's me.

4 (16m 52s):
I mean, I'll be I'll be candid in saying I think I'm so hopeful for reform, but I have to keep in mind that like you and I watched the Camden chief. March with the protesters. I asked my officers to deescalate situations on a daily basis. This was my turn to go out and try to deescalate the situation and and I think we were able to lower the tensions a little bit when we're together. It's for one Community. It's not US versus the community. It's a we're part of the community and you would think other police Chiefs and other sheriff's would look at that and be like, wow, they're not violent. They're having a conversation with the community. This is how I should do it and a lot of them didn't and And maybe just can't sort of see the world that way I guess the thing I wonder about is, you know of Camden had such success why haven't other police departments looked at what y'all did there and replicated it.

4 (17m 44s):
I cannot begin to tell you know, I was a g for a little over two and a half years Camden was my priority. There's nothing I spent more time on we failed a lot. We worked incredibly hard and there's nothing I had more political resistance to you know, what I should say this actually police. Parents don't reward Innovation right there, very old-school hierarchical places. And so when I put Scott Thompson in as the interim Chief in 2008, he had 14 years on the job. He hadn't taken the civil service test to be Chief. But all those rules were were suspended. So I was basically able to work around and to basically say like look, I think this guy is the most Innovative guys here. I think he gets it.

4 (18m 24s):
I think he sees it the way I do. Let's put him in as the interim a lot of police departments can't do that. And so you need political. Will you need funding or like the ability of the state to say like, you know get it done. If you fire officers, you know will be willing to defend you and lawsuits and so on it's a big list. So like I don't I don't want to in any way say I think say it's easy. I think it's the hardest thing I've ever done in my career and I think a lot of people look back now or they look at the end result and say like wow, that's great or that simple. It was it was definitely not and Milgram is a professor of practice at New York University School of Law.

4 (19m 8s):
She's also the co-host of the cafe Insider podcast. You can find it wherever you listen to this one.