2 (1s):
Google's free tools are designed to help millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working. And right. Now these businesses could use our help support. The place is near you by booking an appointment buying a gift card writing a review more ordering takeout all With a Little Help from Google.

1 (22s):
Have you ever received a reminder to meditate from headspace had your spirits lifted with a reward from wine.com or received cash back shopping offers from the Ibotta app. If so, you've experienced the power of braised the world's leading brands use braised to engage with over 2.5 billion active Global users each month. That's nearly a billion more than the 2019 ridership of New York City subway system learn how braised can help you form stronger connections with your customers visit braised.com power of braised that's VRA ve.com power of praise.

1 (1m 11s):
It's a explained. I'm Sean Rama's from a few weeks back President Trump announced a commission to promote what he calls patriotic education in the United States.

2 (1m 23s):
We must clear away the Twisted Web of Lies in our schools and classrooms and teach our children the Magnificent truth about our country.

1 (1m 34s):
The president wants students to learn a pro-america

2 (1m 38s):
curriculum. We want our sons and daughters to know that they are the citizens of the most exceptional nation in the history of the world. Funny thing is a lot of historians would argue that the

1 (1m 55s):
curriculum in the United States is already pretty pro-american the existing curriculum already leaves out plenty of inconvenient truths and unflattering stories. The video team at vaux has an entire series dedicated to those stories. It's called missing chapter. It's hosted by our colleague run genique chakraborty. And for today's show. We invited run Jenny over to dream up. What a missing chapter. Cast might sound like this is the story of a forgotten protest that paved the way to end institutional segregation in the Southern United States. Maybe not a surprise considering the subject matter, but the episode features some strong language and you're going to hear about some violence, but let us know what you think of what you hear you can tweet at me or at the show.

1 (2m 45s):
I'm a traumas firm the show is at today underscore explained or you can send us an email where today And at vox.com here's run Jenny. St. Augustine is a small Scenic town on the coast of Northern Florida. Imagine brick lined streets buildings with read Spanish tile and miles of pristine Beach dotted with palm trees. This is the town where Cynthia Mitchell Clark was born and raised

2 (3m 17s):
we will go to the beach and there was usually a cookout the people playing ball and running around and just having a good Time

1 (3m 26s):
it was a three mile stretch of sandy beach and there were bathhouses a merry-go-round and picnic tables to take in views of the Atlantic.

2 (3m 34s):
I love adults with sit up top on the hill and the children would play it was well kept from what I

1 (3m 41s):
remember of it again to I had nothing to compare

2 (3m 45s):
it to because I wasn't allowed to go to st. Augustine Beach

1 (3m 49s):
back. Then St. Augustine Beach was the whites-only beach. It was just a few miles north of where Cynthia and her family and other black residents were allowed to sweat. I knew without anyone really telling me that they were two different beaches but let's Beach and they don't seem Beach we knew where to go and where not to go Cynthia. I didn't need a whites only sign to know the rules rules. She had followed her entire life that is until one summer when Cynthia and dozens of others decided to break them. They waited into the water at E Augustine Beach it felt like I had one up on those who didn't want us at the beach by saying I'm here.

1 (4m 34s):
I know you don't want me here, but I'm

2 (4m 35s):
here. We thought was going to be a peaceful day peaceful demonstration and somehow someone told them that we were at the beach and that's when the violence started.

1 (4m 48s):
This was the summer after Cynthia's 14th birthday. This was the summer of 1964. And do you have a sense now? Why civil rights leaders? Wanted to Target St. Augustine during that spring and summer.

2 (5m 3s):
Because they don't see was the most racist place that anyone could ever

3 (5m 6s):
imagine

1 (5m 12s):
from the VOX media podcast Network. This is missing chapter. I'm Runnin a chakravarthy missing chapter tells the stories that were deliberately left out of our history textbooks stories that reveal the truth about our past and where we might be headed and if there's ever been a time to reckon with our

2 (5m 31s):
past. It's now Justice for Jacob thousands taking to the streets in Wisconsin this weekend

1 (5m 46s):
calling for an end to police brutality. Racial. Justice protests have four cities across the country to rethink who we memorialize what we celebrate and why. Cynthia's Hometown st. Augustine Florida is grappling with this to it's in fact the nation's oldest

2 (6m 9s):
city located on Florida's Northeast Coast in st. Johns County a town that seems to love celebrating its history this ancient city of 15,000 population is one of the state's leading tourist attraction.

1 (6m 22s):
It's got a well-preserved fort a Spanish Colonial quarter and Ponce De Leon's Fountain of Youth the city is also home. Home to an overlooked but T civil rights battle when Cynthia and protesters like her waited into pools and beaches that should have been open to

2 (6m 42s):
all it's a movement missing for most history textbooks and its participants are conspicuously absent Among The Monuments and st. Augustine's so on today's episode. We're covering that history will see how a unique form of protest in the summer of 64 helped push. A landmark Civil Rights bill into law and we'll learn why today that

1 (7m 7s):
legislation still isn't enough. Back in 1964 Cynthia Metropark was an outgoing kid. I was in anything and everything that existed in terms of organization, especially at my school. I had to be where there was action, but at the time st. Augustine was a pretty tough place to be a black teenager. It wasn't just the beaches that were segregated. It was the lunch counters the stores the school's the movie theaters many of us will go to the theater on Saturday the movie.

1 (7m 48s):
And in order to get to the section where black people had to sit we had to go through an alley and in that alley was where a lot of the stores will put their garbage. So we were going through that little alley upstairs sit in the balcony area. And that's what we had to watch the movie downstairs, which was white only their popcorn and had drinks when we had to bring Ring our own like the movie theater. The city itself was divided by the railroad most of the black residents live to the west of the tracks including Cynthia her mom and her younger brother.

1 (8m 30s):
But even in their own homes, black residents faced a constant threat at night. We had to turn all the lights out my

2 (8m 38s):
brother and I had to study

1 (8m 41s):
in a closet. It was no more than 2 by 3 if that It was in the center of the house and no one could see any lights from it from the outside. If anyone had seen in lights. Then the house would have been fire bombed. There was one instance where my grandmother's house was shot in about three shots because she had lights on Fortune. She was in the back of the house, but that was typical these fire bombings the shootings and to people's homes at night. They came from White.

2 (9m 17s):
Premise this group plan inspired violence touched off. One of the most vicious racial riots in recent history.

1 (9m 23s):
KKK violence had been ramping up in st. Augustine in the months leading into the spring of 1964 a local black activist named Robert hailing had been leading marches and rallies to desegregate the city.

2 (9m 36s):
I feel it is incumbent upon the city officials and the state officials to make Saint Augustine a glaring example of democracy at work.

1 (9m 47s):
Cynthia's mom also got involved. So I became involved because my mother was involved because my church was really place where everyone would meet after the mass meeting. There will be a March to the downtown area to what was called the old slave market and we March singing freedom

2 (10m 6s):
songs. Which side are you on? Of course, we shall overcome as demonstrators marched toward downtown they

1 (10m 18s):
clash with members of the

2 (10m 20s):
KKK and they line the street shouting obscenities and throwing items at us. But Temple of violence increase rapidly in st. Augustine the clan paraded in the streets calling us everything they could think of primarily nigga just spitting at us. They would knock out all of the street lights. So you marching in the

1 (10m 46s):
dark Cynthia remembers one night when her mom went out to protest and a photographer. Was there covering the event for a black newspaper the next day on the front page of that newspaper Cynthia spotted a picture a woman and a familiar black and white dress. It was my mother. She'd been hit with a bottle on her leg. So she had a cut on her leg. from that bottle and it was like that almost every night. Somebody came back bleeding there were people who were beaten so badly until you couldn't recognize them. You knew that something would happen to you or someone else.

1 (11m 28s):
It was just inevitable and you prepare yourself for it and move on Cynthia and her entire Community marched and rallied and sat in four months. But st. Augustine resisted change and as the KKK was getting more and more violent local movement leadership decided they needed help they called. The southern Christian leadership conference the SCLC and its president

2 (11m 58s):
the Reverend Martin Luther King Junior Prom, please and when dr. King came to the city that's when the movement really took off Nick rolls of st. Augustine, Florida and those that have come in from other communities. And their allies in the white Community are determined to March the streets of this city under the walls of segregation come crumbling down.

1 (12m 31s):
At the time King was trying to get Congress to pass the 1964 Civil Rights Act. It would prohibit discrimination based on race religion sex or national origin and it would ban segregation in all places of public accommodation restaurants theaters hotels, it would mean the beginning of the end for Jim Crow. The problem was it was stuck in the senate in this record long. Buster and Kane thought that a national Spotlight on the racism in st. Augustine might help convince Congress to push the bill into law. So the SCLC descended on the city with a bunch of activists from all over the South including JT Johnson.

2 (13m 15s):
Obviously, our land is try to do good

1 (13m 17s):
things. JT is now 82 but back in 1964. He was just 26 years old and living in his hometown, Albany, Georgia. Any had its own local movement

2 (13m 30s):
sit it was Carlos watching at night. This is trying to integrate things that were

1 (13m 35s):
segregated in June of 64 the SCLC asked JT to go to st. Augustine in addition to the marches and boycotts the activists there were starting to use a new tactic weyden's. Just a sit-ins targeted segregated lunch counters weyden's targeted segregated pools and beaches like the whites only beach in st. Augustine that Cynthia had to steer clear of as a kid activists would go to these beaches in pools and literally Wade or swim in the water this particular kind of protest had already gotten attention on the beaches of cities like Biloxi, Fort Lauderdale and Chicago.

1 (14m 20s):
A lot of white people fiercely opposed integrating pools and beaches the idea of the races mixing in the water in the same water in bathing suits that played on very racist justifications for Jim Crow the threat of contamination and the threat of black sexuality. So weyden's were a really provocative form of protest especially in a Southern segregated Beach town like Saint Augustine. But the SCLC was determined and lucky for them. JT had a helpful skill

2 (14m 57s):
salmon that is forming the Flint River and and Isis live all with some friendly to go to that River we go swimming and do everything

1 (15m 5s):
at a time when black people were often excluded from beaches and pools. JT was doing something quietly radical

2 (15m 12s):
we had swimming lessons. We talk young kids in the mornings and older people that

1 (15m 16s):
like Not long after JT arrived in St. Augustine, dr. King and other SCLC leaders like Ralph Abernathy picked a Target the Monson Motor Lodge. The Monson was this Posh Downtown hotel ringed by palm trees and it was like the only in a city that relied heavily on tourism. It had been a long time Target of integration activists. So it's no surprise the SCLC chose this site. They started with a sit-in on a Thursday in June the day of the sit-in king and the other activists walked up the steps and tried to get lunch at the hotel restaurant, but

2 (16m 5s):
it was an alarm to come

1 (16m 6s):
in the Associated Press was there that day cameras rolling

2 (16m 12s):
are you prepared to do now? Dr. King? Well, we will stand here and feel kind of nonviolent protest. What we feel is a blade. Injustice and everything are like to Prevail on you and

1 (16m 25s):
behalf any ATM footage you can see the manager of the Monson Motor Lodge James Brock. He's a balding white guy in glasses and a suit. He's a fixture in the town's tourism industry the president of the Florida hotel and motel Association. Mr. Brock.

2 (16m 43s):
He didn't want to send that. He just he was a staunch segregationist

1 (16m 47s):
Rock stands right in the front door telling Kane. He's not

2 (16m 50s):
welcome. Nonviolent Army to repeatedly solicit some other property. Other than mine is you know, I've

1 (17m 0s):
King didn't budge. So st. Augustine police arrested him Ralph Abernathy and more than a dozen others that afternoon.

2 (17m 9s):
So we decided that we were going to do something different. We thought well, maybe we ought to do something that the swimming pool down here

1 (17m 15s):
out front the Monson Motor Lodge had a large kidney-shaped pool a perfect place for Then but first they needed volunteers,

2 (17m 26s):
nobody said anything. So I told you I'll leave this demonstration this fine with me, but I didn't have a bathing suit my good friends. Well, I got what you could use

1 (17m 37s):
they set a date for the following week. The SCLC had big plans for the Monson that day today probable under a noon Sun Negroes

2 (17m 47s):
and white rabbis much to a segregated Hotel. Well met by the manager with these results

1 (17m 52s):
more than a dozen rabbis joined black protesters around the hotel to try to form a prayer circle, but as they start to pray Brock shouts them down to of the white protesters. Checked into the Munson but the white men had invited other Negroes to

2 (18m 15s):
be that guests in the swimming pool.

1 (18m 17s):
But GT new the hotel wouldn't let a black Patron in through the front doors much less in the locker room. So he put on his borrowed bathing suit and a volunteer drove him and for other black demonstrators into downtown St. Augustine.

2 (18m 32s):
It dropped us off Riders better than matzo hotel

1 (18m 35s):
and he snuck into the

2 (18m 36s):
hotel jumped out a call over the edges it into the pool.

1 (18m 40s):
Brock was enraged. He walked out of the hotel

2 (18m 44s):
and over to the edge of the pool manager James brought told him to get off and private property JT and his friends refused. So Brock picked up a clinical side of it is pole it clear and cold inside of your house with Daddy's call us the Inward and we should go back where we come from the acetate and

1 (19m 5s):
when that didn't work Brock resorted to a shocking for me. Violence,

2 (19m 12s):
so we went back to this rule. We got some acid to stop pulling that in there two jugs of hydrochloric acid one in each hand and brought forth cleaning chemicals inside the pool and an effort to get the Negroes to leave as the acid hits the water the pool starts to Bubble the protesters

1 (19m 30s):
clutched each other in fear Brock followed them as they fled across the pool. Were you expecting that sort of reaction that violence?

2 (19m 42s):
Are you demonstrating? You don't worry about what's going to happen. He's trying to make a point that was not a lot of fear in the movement. The Lord had taken all the fear out of our hearts

1 (19m 51s):
JT and the other demonstrators weren't burned by the acid but they didn't leave unscathed

2 (19m 57s):
the sheriff's jumped into the pool and they found a drove us out of the pool and put us in

1 (20m 2s):
jail. He arrived dripping wet and just his bathing suit. That was a problem

2 (20m 9s):
about time for dinner. So they wouldn't feed me because I have on any clothes they say so I said, well, you know, you didn't allow me to get my stuff, you know, we decided that we would fast and nobody would eat and we did it for three or four days there

1 (20m 26s):
while JT and the other sat in jail their protests went viral that moment James Brock pouring acid into the pool full of young black and white Swimmers, it was put on newscasts newspapers and magazines all across the country today that photo is missing for most history textbooks. It certainly wasn't in mind but to historians who study the Civil Rights era. It's pretty well known.

2 (20m 54s):
Let me pull it up

1 (20m 55s):
myself. We talked to one and your quarrel who teaches at UVA

2 (20m 60s):
indication of how iconic it. Is that like fills out as you start typing. The thing about that image that always sticks with me and without anyone who's ever seen it. It's just how casual that manager is as he's dumping acid into the

1 (21m 17s):
pool and how that's contrasted with those who are in the pool who are clutching each other and screaming in Terror at just something that I think anyone who's ever seen that image cannot get it out of their head and as news of the weight and spread that image certainly stop with the most powerful man in the country.

2 (21m 35s):
Yes, they have a swimming pool side Augustine. They jumped in and police jumped in their clothes on and started pouring acid in the pool

1 (21m 43s):
coming up the st. Augustine weyden's got the attention of President Lyndon B Johnson, but when those weight ins moved from the pool to the beach it led to one of st. Augustine's

2 (21m 55s):
most violent nights yet. That's after the break.

1 (22m 14s):
Support for the show today comes from who we are. It's a new show from the people over at Ben and Jerry's and if you're wondering why the people over at Ben & Jerry's are getting into the podcast game. It's because they thought maybe it'd be a good time to take a look at

2 (22m 29s):
American history and figure

1 (22m 31s):
out how it led us to where we are right now. The show is based on ACLU legal deputy director, Jeffrey Robinson's acclaimed presentation of the same. Aim, he's joined by Peabody award-winning journalist Carvel Wallace to Chronicle racism in America and dissect the systems that have allowed white supremacy to thrive for 400 years and counting. They're going to look at some of the most pressing issues of our time voter suppression the racial wealth Gap health care and much more new episodes of who we are are on Tuesdays. Listen And subscribe wherever you listen And subscribe.

1 (23m 17s):
Consumers for safe CBD wants to know what's in your CBD in a recent report to Congress the FDA found that a sampling of CBD products. They tested were mislabeled some of them contained more than 120 percent of the CBD amount listed and nearly 20 products contained th see the ingredient that can cause psychoactive effects as well consumers for safe. CBD is calling on the FDA to regulate the CBD Market to protect consumers from

2 (23m 46s):
To

1 (23m 47s):
harms posed by untested products though. The FDA has issued warnings. This is not deterred some vendors for making sweeping Health claims about their products ability to treat a wide range of serious medical conditions. Remember just because CBD products are on grocery store shelves does not mean they're risk-free be smart and stay healthy learn more about consumers for safe CBD at for safe. CBD dot-org. That's the number four. or sa Fe CBD Dot o-- r-- g-- That awful scene at the Monson Motor Lodge was broadcast around the world and President Lyndon B.

1 (24m 33s):
Johnson was worried

2 (24m 35s):
the party the people will not fail the trust of the people at

1 (24m 38s):
the time LBJ was in California making the rounds at political events in the Bay

2 (24m 43s):
Area First Trust is Victory itself on November the 3rd, and that's what we going to have. But he saw those images from st. Augustine and he called an advisor from his hotel in San Francisco

1 (24m 57s):
for Johnson. This wasn't just a domestic problem. It was a global 100

2 (25m 4s):
fine, but was and everything else go to hell over

1 (25m 6s):
this. The summer of 1964 was the height of the Cold War just a few years after the Berlin Wall went up not too long after the Cuban Missile Crisis and just as the Vietnam War was ramping up part of the Cold War pitch for American democracy was freedom and tolerance so a photo like the one from the Monson Motor Lodge was really bad PR for the u.s. LBJ was worried that the Soviets might use it to their advantage. Especially because the 1964 Civil Rights Act was still stuck in Congress. Johnson hoped protests like the ones in st.

1 (25m 47s):
Augustine would finally get Congress on board that the Civil Rights bill would become law and prevent future violence

2 (25m 56s):
theft in our judgment is going to be the next few months as to whether both sides accept the proposition that they're going to get decency and fairness Justice. I think what really got to the country was that asset that they put it in food on us that picture there had a lot to do with the Civil Rights bill

1 (26m 17s):
just as Martin Luther King jr. Had hoped the scenes in St. Augustine struck a chord with the American people and on June 19 1964. Just one day after the weighed in at the Monson Motor Lodge the Senate finally passed the Civil Rights bill JT heard the news in jail.

2 (26m 37s):
Yes. He said Megan is praying. Are you going to let nobody turn this around that that was what I made saw them which side are you on these songs are songs of inspiration.

1 (27m 2s):
But the bill still had to pass the house. So once JT and the others got out of jail, they continue to fight they teamed up with locals to Stage more weight ins this time at the beach. Fourteen year-old Cynthia Clark the one who had to study in her closet had been marching and rallying all summer with her mom. So Hosea Williams a close associate of dr. King recruited Cynthia and other young people to join him at one particular protest, Robin Hosea Williams called my mother and asked her if I could go with some of the kids down to st. Augustine Beach and she said, okay, don't let anything happen to my daughter Reverend.

1 (27m 47s):
Liam's promised so with dozens of other protesters Cynthia walked onto st. Augustine Beach the white Beach for the first time and we were out in the water. Just playing in the water. There were no white beach goers in sight the demonstrators figured they'd be left alone. And then all of a sudden someone turned around and looked up on the banks and saw it seemed to have been at least 50 to 75 young white. males without shirts on and either trunks on or shorts And then all of a sudden they realize we saw them they came running down the bank.

2 (28m 31s):
They were throwing their fists left and right. We thought it was gonna be a peaceful day peaceful demonstration. No one expected this group of young white males to line the banks. And then come running down like like a herd herd of animals and just hitting people knocking them. Nobody expected

1 (28m 57s):
that. When I got past them and ran to the car with rubber Hosea Williams, someone said somebody hit your nose. I said no somebody just slap me. That was all I'm okay. Cynthia didn't feel anything until she looked in a mirror and that's when I saw my nose was to the side. So then when Reverend Williams looked at it, he just said oh Lord. Oh your mom's going to kill me. Your mama's gonna kill he kept saying that she didn't want you to go and I begged her and look what happened. Oh, she's gonna kill me.

1 (29m 38s):
There would be no more protests for Cynthia that summer. Those weight and sparked a wave of violence that consumed the

2 (29m 48s):
city on the night of June 25th 1964 the fuse burns down and the racial bomb exploded. St. Augustine was the scene of a frightening ride scores of people were injured 19

1 (30m 2s):
hospitalized, but the way it ends in St. Augustine swayed the nation and kept pressure on

2 (30m 7s):
Congress Congress passes the most sweeping civil. Heinz Field ever to be written into the law five hours after the hospices the measure the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is signed at the White House by President Johnson. The Civil Rights Act is a challenge to all of us to go to work in our communities and our state's in our homes and in our hearts. To eliminate the last vestiges of Injustice in our Beloved Country

1 (30m 38s):
looking back. Did you think herself at all that you played a small part in getting that Bill signed? Absolutely. Absolutely. I felt good about what I done. I felt good about what my family had done

2 (30m 51s):
because I know we made a difference. No in this summer of 1964. The Civil Rights bill is the law of the land in the words of the It restricts no one's Freedom so long as he respects the rights of others.

1 (31m 9s):
That law is considered one of the most important achievements of the Civil Rights Movement. It paved the way to finally end Jim Crow today more than half a century later. When JT Johnson visit St. Augustine. He walks through the front door of the Monson Motor

2 (31m 27s):
Lodge. I said that hotel the Hilton as well Leo when I go to st. Augustine I go in the pool and swim around it brings back memories.

1 (31m 35s):
The hotel is even found a way to commemorate what happened there.

2 (31m 39s):
The

1 (31m 39s):
summer of 64

2 (31m 41s):
as you go in the front door the pool and drag to the left. They have stuff about Darcy and then they have markers at the food in the water at some around the hedges about what happened

1 (31m 53s):
and yet

2 (31m 55s):
normally when I go in it, I mean there was some people who knew nothing about

1 (31m 58s):
it about the weight in or how JT's protest helped pass the Civil Rights

2 (32m 3s):
Act. We share a story and I tell him about his food at what happened. I was surprised after years a lot of folks never knew anything about st. Augustine, but you could hear about Birmingham Albany, but never say no receipt we tend to say, you know, don't know our history. We are bound to repeat it. I try to share with my grandson's now so they will have an understanding of

1 (32m 27s):
what people went through in order

2 (32m 29s):
to allow them to go to the beaches to go

1 (32m 33s):
in a restaurant they want to or you know, do whatever they want to do but despite all those changes to this day Cynthia still doesn't feel welcome in her hometown some things that happened to you as a child. You just don't let go of it a Years after her historic protest she left for college and never moved back. I visit st. Augustine now and I still have an eerie feeling. Because the element is still there of people don't want black people there. Have you ever gone to St. Augustine Beach since that day and 64 No.

1 (33m 15s):
I have it and I don't swim that was going to learn how to swim. But after the incident, I have never learned how to swim. The fight for access to public Recreation isn't actually over after the Civil Rights Act and integration became law there was a backlash. White people retreated to the suburbs and private Resorts many cities decided to close down their public pools and beaches instead of

3 (33m 47s):
integrating.

1 (33m 50s):
All across the country and up through today beaches and pools remain deeply contested spaces.

2 (33m 59s):
I'm going to tell you one more time

1 (34m 4s):
black teens in Texas attacked while trying to enjoy a day at the

2 (34m 8s):
pool and I heard is leaving. She was like what are all these black kids doing? And she's like I'm scared that you might do something so much out what kids out of Pennsylvania Day

1 (34m 16s):
Camp barred from entering a private

2 (34m 19s):
club a statement from the club President says there was a concern a lot of kids would change the

1 (34m 23s):
complexion and atmosphere of the club a black family harassed for Using a hotel pool during their stay. I pulled that I have a rule here with my kids. So because I'm the only black person here and this pool they want to question me. Now that I know what happened in st. Augustine the racial conflicts of today feel like deja vu Run Jenny chakraborti.

1 (35m 30s):
She's a senior producer of Fox as I mentioned before missing chapter is a series from boxes video team. You can find much more of their work at youtube.com slash Vox that includes a video version of today's episode and a reminder that we want to know what you thought of today's episode. Hit me up. I'm a trauma sperm on Twitter hit up today explained on Twitter at today underscore explained or send us an email today explained at vox.com. Today's episode was edited by Amy draws duska and Robin aimer with mixing and original score by Hannah's Brown. It was produced by our dear friend Jillian Weinberger who just this week gave birth to a beautiful baby boy named Isaac.

1 (36m 12s):
Welcome to the world Isaac. You've already made it better the today explain team includes Amna al-saadi will read Halima Shamu JD & Nam hassenfeld who contributes original Musical theme Shapiro is our engineer Golda Arthur is the supervising producer and Liz Kelly Nelson is vaux's editorial director of podcasts extra help this week from bird Pinkerton and Cecilia lay much more music from the original brake master cylinder today explained as part of the VOX media podcast Network.

2 (36m 48s):
Google's free tools are designed to help support millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working with Google tools small businesses are staying connected to their customers by updating their business hours switching to curbside pickup activating online booking and more and if you want to support them, there are ways to help whether you're searching for restaurants salons bookstores Jim's boutiques or any other business near you show your support by ordering takeout, right? Review buying a gift card or making a donation all With a Little Help from Google.

1 (37m 27s):
And it only underscores how powerful the right to vote is that it requires such significant financial and human resources to keep people away from the polls. It's apocryphal but they say that Mark

2 (37m 40s):
Twain said history may not repeat itself, but the show do rhyme.

1 (37m 47s):
Hello. I'm Ian milhiser and I'm the host of by the people a

2 (37m 51s):
new Fox podcast miniseries focused on voting rights in the 2020. Each episode will examine a specific obstacle facing voters in this election and layout various policy proposals and practical ways to overcome that

1 (38m 5s):
obstacle in this season.

2 (38m 8s):
We're going to cover America's history of voter suppression. The impact of covid on voting ways. The Constitution is structurally rigged against Democratic majorities, and the role of the Supreme Court has played in dismantling many of our voting rights new episodes of by the people can be found each Saturday in the we weeds feet