1 (2s):
Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over a spectacle in Northern India. Yesterday he opened a massive Hindu temple on the site of what used to be a mosque.

2 (13s):
It's controversial because it replaces a 16th century mosque that once stood there, and it is one of India's most controversial religious sites. What happened was that in 1992, Hindu mobs tore down what was called the RI Mosque, claiming that it was built by Muslim invaders on the ruins of a temple. Now, this incident sparked off nationwide religious writing, which took nearly 2000 lives,

1 (42s):
How a centuries long fight over sacred land was settled and how it wasn't it's Coming up on today. Explained

BetterHelp (60s):
Support for the show today comes from Better Help Online Therapy. New Year's resolutions are tricky. It's exciting to write out a list of things that you'd like to change, but can also be kind of devastating to realize that yet again you didn't magically become a different person just 'cause you got a new leopard calendar. BetterHelp can help you focus on the things that you really need to start a new, celebrate the progress you've already made. Visit BetterHelp dot com slash explain today to get 10% off your first month. That's better hlp.com/explained.

0 (1m 32s):
Hey

1 (1m 32s):
There. Before we get into today's show, I wanna ask you about something. So this month, primaries for the 2024 election begin and we all deserve to have clear, concise information on what this election could mean for our lives, our family's lives. Misinformation is a big deal this time around. It's not just Pope Francis in a puffer jacket. That's a lot out there that's really challenging to wade through financial contributions from our listeners. Empower us to do all of this and help us keep today explained free for everyone. You can go to Vox dot com slash give to contribute and I just wanna thank you for your support.

0 (2m 12s):
This is

3 (2m 14s):
Today explained.

1 (2m 18s):
Shaik Biswas covers India for the BBC and he's been spending time in the northern Indian city where Narendra Modi opened this enormous Hindu temple yesterday. This was a big win for India's Hindus. It was also a big win for Hindu nationalism and because this land is contested, the event meant something very different for India's Muslims. It was also Modi's way of unofficially kicking off his campaign. He's running to be reelected as India's Prime Minister,

4 (2m 46s):
A sea of saffron. The color sacred in the Hindu religion has taken over the town of eia.

2 (2m 53s):
This happened in a city called aota, which used to be a very sleepy pilgrim town, but it's been completely transformed. And today some 8,000 people kind of turned up invited, including India, stop business leaders, movie actors, sports people,

5 (3m 8s):
All started arriving in a yo. You can see film actor Kana. She's arrived there in yo you.

2 (3m 16s):
There were apparently dignitaries from over 50 countries there as well.

5 (3m 19s):
Cricketing legend, Anil Kle also arriving there in

2 (3m 23s):
The, the thing was televised live. It showed the Prime Minister performing religious rituals inside the temple. There was a completely festive atmosphere. Tens of thousands of Hindu devotees, waved flags, beat drums. There were military helicopters on top, you know, showering kind of flower petals on the temple. It is a huge one. It stretches across more than seven acres in a 70 acre complex. It's an imposing three story structure. It costs over $200 million to make. It's fully kind of made in pink sandstone.

2 (4m 3s):
It's built on black granite. It posts these tarring pillars and it rests upon about 70,000 square feet of pristine white marble. And inside the temple, there's a 51 inch eye doll of Allah drum placed on a marble pedestal. Now Mr. Modi today actually opened only the ground floor. When the temple will be completed, it is expected to greet a staggering 150,000 visitors a day. Wow. Which is roughly seven times the current trade. Now, what happened today, quintessentially was a ceremony called Pran PR in the Hindi language, which loosely translates into establishment of life force.

2 (4m 51s):
Now this ceremony lasted for an hour and the Hindus believe that chanting mantras and performing rituals around a fire will infuse kind of sacred life in an idol or a photograph of a deity. And some even proclaim the moment of inauguration of the temple as the start of what they call Raja or the rule of Ramas. Lord Ramas in India

6 (5m 15s):
A dream has finally become a reality. It's like God himself has appeared before us.

2 (5m 21s):
So as I said, it was a massive, massive spectacle of the kind India hasn't seen in a while.

1 (5m 28s):
Okay, so this will be an enormous attraction. I wonder what this means for the people who were living in the city of aia. How did they react to this, this huge development, number one, and what it's gonna mean for them?

2 (5m 42s):
Yeah, I mean, you know, AIA has been a traditionally overwhelmingly Hindu pilgrim city. It's a city inspired by faith and tradition. The entire city has undergone a makeover around the temple because they want to make it a spiritual and global hub of spirituality and Hindu religion. Our

7 (6m 2s):
Government of ADE is highly focused on doing things for devotees. They know that the pilgrim will live from all over the country and abroad. Yes sir. So we have to provide facilities outside the temple to people to stay.

2 (6m 26s):
About 3000 houses and shops were partially or fully demolished to widen the corridors leading up to the temple. So there's a certain amount of excitement among the people saying all this will boost tourism and also it'll boost incomes for them because for so far it's been a a very fragile pilgrim dependent economy. Now, chains like Radisson building hotels, the luxury hotels coming up, et cetera,

8 (6m 53s):
Ahead of the consecration ceremony, Prime Minister, Nain Modi will also be inaugurating the newly built international airport. This will actually serve as a major gateway to the entire city.

2 (7m 3s):
But on the other side, there are also rumblings of discontent because you know, all those people whose homes have been demolished and shops have been demolished, they're slightly anxious, they feel disturbed, they're not very happy with the compensation that they've received from the government. you know,

9 (7m 18s):
Speaking to Muslims here in the town of, they've told us that they're hiding out and they've told us they're actually worried about what will happen in the coming days, in the coming weeks when Mr. Modi and his 12,000 security forces leave. They fear that it will be dangerous for them in the weeks and years to come and that they feel erased by this temple opening. But Mr. Modi,

1 (7m 39s):
What did Narendra Modi say as he consecrated the temple and is there any tension between this being a religious site and the Prime Minister using it to kick off an election campaign?

2 (7m 55s):
Mr. Modi said that he had a lump in his throat when he went inside the temple sanctum sanctorum, and he congratulated the country on this occasion. He actually said 22nd January is I quote, not a date on a calendar, but a dawn of a new era. And he also said that people who do not understand the purity of India's social consciousness, they should understand the construction of this temple. In quotes, is a symbol of the Indian society's peace, patience, and mutual harmony that this temple has not given birth to a fire, but to a certain amount of energy.

2 (8m 38s):
This is what essentially he said today after inaugurating the temple. I mean, it's quite clear that this is this informal start to his election campaign. The Elections are in a few months time and a lot of critiques have said that this party is mixing religion and politics and it has been on the election manifesto since 1996. As I said, this has been brewing for a very long time. This dispute has been really brewing actively since 1990 when the Hindu nationalists began an agitation. Two years later, the mosque came down, so he kind of completed it on the back of a very important Supreme Court judgment.

2 (9m 24s):
This whole ownership dispute between the Hindus and Muslims over this mosque ended only in 2019 when the Supreme Court granted the site to Hindus, despite explicitly stating that the demolition of the mosque was in courts egregious violation of the rule of law. Having said that, the court also gave Muslims another plot of land in Iota. But this is the, this is the bigger plot and this is the, this is the biggest sh in a sense

1 (9m 57s):
That was the BBC's sha Biswas coming up. How a Hindu God and a Muslim mosque ended up in India's Supreme Court.

Shopify (10m 13s):
Support for today, explain comes from Shopify in 2024. You can buy just about anything online that requires behind the scenes an insane amount of processes and logistical brilliance and its et cetera. Shopify is one of the platforms that makes it easier for sellers to sell things. Shopify is a global commerce platform that makes it possible for business owners to process payments, track store performance, grow their operation. The platforms engineered to drive growth for mom and pop shops and for retail giants to Shopify's ensemble of useful tools makes it a snap to sell in person and online seamlessly says Shopify. You can sign up for a $1 per month trial period at shopify.com/explained. You can go to shopify.com/explained to grow your business no matter what stage you're in. shopify.com/explained

NetSuite (11m 11s):
Support for today explained comes from NetSuite. Here are some numbers from NetSuite. 37,000 businesses have upgraded to NetSuite by Oracle. According to NetSuite by Oracle, NetSuite is a cloud financial system that can help streamline your accounting, financial management, inventory, HR, and more. NetSuite turns 25 this year and according to NetSuite, that's 25 years of helping businesses do more with less close their books in days instead of weeks and drive down expenses. The last number is one, because your business is one of a kind. Yeah. So you can get a customized solution for all of your KPIs. you know what that means. I don't have to tell you in one efficient system all your data in one place, you can better manage risk, get reliable forecasts, improve margins, everything you need to grow all in one place. At the moment. You can download NetSuite's popular KPI checklist designed to give you excellent performance absolutely free at netsuite.com/explained. That's netsuite.com/explain to get your own KPI checklist.

On with Kara Swisher (12m 20s):
Hi everyone, this is Kara Swisher, host of the podcast On with Kara Swisher from New York Magazine and the Vox Media Podcast Network. This week on the show I talk to professor and historian Heather Cox Richardson about how we got here. Here being the age of Donald Trump and the rise of authoritarianism in America, We tend to think about the idea of dictatorships coming in tanks, for example, or with with people goosestepping. And the reality is in this moment that more often people vote down a democracy that is they vote into power, people who are pushing toward authoritarianism. It's a great interview, but it's not also despairing. I promise Professor Richardson still has hope for American democracy. You can listen to our conversation now. Wherever you get your podcast. Just search for On with Kara Swisher.

1 (13m 15s):
It is today explained. I'm Noel King. The opening of the Rom temple yesterday was very high profile affair. India's stock market closed for the day. Movie theaters screened the whole thing live. And a lot of people wondered because of this land's bloody history, would there also be big protests as the day unfolded? In fact, there were not. I asked Hartosh Singh Ball, the executive editor of the Caravan, a long form culture, aren politics magazine. Why not? And he told me it's more complicated than just purely good news.

15 (13m 48s):
Well, I think you have to place in context the history of the last eight or 10 years of the Modi government because the people who were to contest it who have been affronted and humiliated by what has happened are in no position to actually come out on the streets and protest. The entire establishment of the state is reigned against them. They are today politically second class citizens. They have no control over power.

16 (14m 14s):
Mr. Modi has proven that you can make Muslims invisible from Indian politics and still get 3 9 6 Loks Ofid on the basis of the majority community or

15 (14m 26s):
Previous protests have been, they've faced clamp downs, they've faced lynchings, they've had their homes bulldozed. It doesn't leave you much space to actually protest. This

17 (14m 34s):
Week a Muslim man was once again murdered while transporting cattle in the southwest of the country

19 (14m 44s):
1000 miles away. Another huge crowd in another Muslim area. As the police stood by, they screamed

15 (14m 51s):
Insults that are two wishes to broadcast. It probably is more indicative of the kind of democracy we've become where really what should have been taken for granted is no longer possible for a huge number of citizens.

1 (15m 4s):
So let's go way back in history. Can you tell me about the origin of the dispute over this land? Where does this start?

15 (15m 13s):
It's very difficult to separate myth from history in India in this context. Io there the city Where The temple has been built, is considered the birthplace of a Ramas. Ramas is the MOUs hero of the great Indian epic, the Ramas. It is named after him. In some senses it's the story of Ramas in the deities of Hinduism. Maybe among the foremost, he's seen as a reincarnation of Vishnu probably the most important or one of the two most important reincarnations. And the idea of a birthplace implies a certain historicity of which we have no proof at all. We have no idea whether there was ever any historical figure rah.

15 (15m 58s):
But so there is faith associated with this place in IOA In the 16th century of 1500 something. The Muga Emperor Barber built a mosque in aia, and the claim is that this was built over an existing temple. No proof has ever been found that a temple was demolished to construct this mosque through the 20th century. There have been contestations over the site to claim it back in 1949. The idol of Ramas is supposed to have manifested itself at the mosque site. Huh? Of course we know the full know the full history of this, that it was deliberately placed there.

15 (16m 39s):
How members of a Hindu, right-wing organization, clambered over the walls took the I placed it there. The local administration did not take the action it should, and this was the first supposed proof that this was in any way connected to a Hindu monument and this dispute lay sort of inner stasis after the placing of the IL for maybe good 40 years before in the late eighties, the Junta party, which is ruling the country now took it up as a cause and started what is called the Ramas Hui movement to reclaim the land where Ramas was born.

20 (17m 24s):
A looter destroyed our temple 462 years ago. That's a stain on our honor. If the Burri Mosque remains, the stain will remind us of our slavery. We won't rest until we've destroyed the symbol of slavery with blood or with bullets.

15 (17m 40s):
In 1992, a gathering organized by Hindu, right-wing organizations, most prominently the RSS, which is the parent organization of the Bahar Genta party, which is ruling today, NDR Modi, the Prime Minister himself started his public life in the RSS for a decade. Before he joined the BJP, he was deputed to join the BJP by the RSS organized by them Where The Mosque was illegally demolished after commitments had been given to the central government that no such thing would happen. There has been a betrayal of every commitment by the leaders of the Hindu, right, which led to the demolition of a mob by this collection of right wing nationalists who had spades, who were had instruments, who clammed the monument, brought it down.

15 (18m 33s):
And ever since then there has been a legal dispute at the site.

1 (18m 38s):
And then in 2019, this dispute goes before the Supreme Court.

15 (18m 44s):
There were litigants basically from both people who were Muslims and they were the Hindu, right? And they were asking for position over the land. The Muslim argument was basically that this has always been a mosque, the right, right to continue to worship and to rebuild the mosque and claim the land on which the mosque was built because this was what is called land. Land belonging to the Muslims is rightfully theirs.

21 (19m 12s):
Everyone is carrying the grief of the mosque being demolished. Each and every one of us is saddened by it If. you take someone's home, they would be upset, wouldn't they?

15 (19m 21s):
And the argument made on behalf of the Hindu nationalist organizations was that this is a matter of faith. This is what the land should belong to. They cited both history and faith. The legal dispute consisted of two portions. One was the criminal trial of whether there were people guilty of doing an illegal act. And the second was actually who owns the site. And finally, when the verdict was pronounced as far as the criminality of the act, the courts have ruled that it was a criminal act. The second part, which was finally settled in 2019 by India's Supreme Court, basically held that while there is no proof that this is actually the birthplace of Ramas, while there is no proof that this is where a temple stood before the mosque was constructed, since the vast majority of Hindus have such great faith in the idea that this is the birthplace of Ramm, this should be handed over to the Hindus and temple should be constructed there, which in some ways is a pretty startling conclusion.

15 (20m 32s):
If enough people believe something, then that must be done. It seems to be the judicial basis of what has been done.

22 (20m 40s):
Prime Minister Nadi welcomed the verdict and says, it rings a new dawn for India

10 (20m 47s):
Har.

23 (20m 48s):
Every class, every community, people of every sect, the whole country has accepted the verdict with open hearts. It reflects on the ancient culture, traditions and sense of harmony. In India,

1 (21m 0s):
This ruling is handed down in 2019. How did Muslims in India react to this decision?

15 (21m 9s):
Negatively, badly. I think the real trauma was at the time of the demolition of the mosque itself. There was religious violence at that time, clashes between Muslims and Hindus, killings of hundreds of people across the country. That violence and that targeting of Muslims in some ways is what propelled the BJP to national prominence. And I would say to par, and in some senses, Narendra Modi's own political persona was created in the aftermath of the violence. As this great champion of Hindus,

24 (21m 43s):
Prime Minister Modi himself has been accused of sanctioning the massacre of more than 2000 Muslims in the state of Gura in 2002 when he was Chief Minister there.

25 (21m 53s):
But no case against Modi has been successful so far. He strongly denies any wrongdoing, though he once said he regretted Muslim suffering as he would a puppy being run over by a car.

15 (22m 4s):
So the connection from the demolition of the Barbri Muster to the rise of the Hindu, right to the building up of Narendra Modi culminates in his election as Prime Minister in 2014. I think his election itself was a huge setback. So this has already preceded what has happened today. It does not leave the Muslims in any state to come out in public. In fact, quite the contrary, across the Hindi belt, which is Where The, BJ P draws bar Where The Muslims are located in the state of Mad Pradesh where a pr, where a is instructions have been given within the community by religious leaders, political leaders stay in your homes, do not come out, do not aggravate the situation.

15 (22m 49s):
Do not give the government or the Hindu right an excuse for violence today. Because if there is violence, the Hindu right again gains from that. There are Elections due in India in another two, three months. The temple is also apart from this long history that I've drawn from you directly linked to the politics of that election.

1 (23m 10s):
India by its constitution is a secular country. Correct? There's a separation ostensibly of religion and politics, church and state. Everything you've just said suggests that's not actually the case in India anymore. Is there anything that brings this situation back from the brink? And if Narendra Modi is elected in a few months, is there a way back from the brink here?

15 (23m 36s):
I am very pessimistic. I by origin, I'm not a believer in any real sense from the Sikh faith. The Sikhs are a population concentrated in one state. The northern state of Punjab Hindu nationalists see the Sikhs a light to them. They see them well for them faiths which have drawn their origins in India faiths like Buddhism and Sikhism are part of the Hindu fault. Their real problem is with the alien intrusion of Islam and Christianity. Despite this belief of the Hindu, right, there is no taker among the Sikh for the Hindu right as well. What it means is that every minority today lies outside this majoritarian consensus that has been built by Narin Modi.

15 (24m 18s):
Apart from that, there are people like me, huge number, who have faith or had faith in the idea of India because of its constitutional provisions, because of the values that hold this republic together we were a republic which had actually agreed to come together on the basis of a constitution with a certain set of shared values of religious tolerance. It is the most diverse place on earth today. There are 30 different languages. There are people of various ethnicities. Every religion is represented here. It is the last sort of place.

15 (24m 59s):
Where, The sort of virus of nationalism that sprung up in the 19th century in Europe has come and taken root. And so we have a particular sort of nationalistic formation trying to impose the unity of blood soil, which may have worked for a tiny nation state. And I, from the Indian perspective, something like Netherlands are tiny little pockets that are smaller than most provinces of India to apply that idea to something as large as India. So diverse is I think, in the long term, a potential for disaster. But is it going to roll back democratically with the kind of support Narendra Modi has?

15 (25m 40s):
No, it doesn't seem that it's possible today.

1 (25m 46s):
That was Hartosh Singh ball of the Caravan. Today's show was produced by Amanda Lewellyn and edited by Amman Elsi. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard. Rob Byers is our engineer. We also relied on some reporting from the BBC's, Yoko, the Lamai, and we thank her Before we go. Remember when defense Secretary General Lloyd Austin vanished for a while and it turned out that he'd been treated for prostate cancer and he didn't really want anyone to know. That incident got us thinking about why so many men are so uncomfortable talking about their prostate stuff. We're gonna do a show on it. And we would like to know, If, you have a story you wanna tell about getting screened, about getting bad news or good news, or even about just getting shy regarding your prostate.

1 (26m 36s):
We may use it on the air. Give us a call at (844) 453-4448. That is 8 4 4 4 5 3 44 48. And thank you. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.

1 (27m 18s):
All right, we've reached the end of the show. You're still here. We put jokes in the credits just for people like you. Now all year, we're gonna continue to bring clear and fact-check reporting to this election, to the stakes, and we would welcome your support by giving a monthly or annual contribution. You're gonna gain access to expressions of our gratitude members only newsletters q and as with Vox reporters, Sean will come to your home or office and more to be announced. Our explanatory journalism takes resources and your support is a critical part of sustaining this resource intensive work. You can support our work today explained by going to Vox dot com slash give and contributing today.

1 (27m 58s):
There's also a link to give in the show notes now, if this is not the right time for you, if things are economically tricky, we got you. We'll still be here for you. We'll be doing a show about the economy soon, and we thank you for your support in advance.