1 (2s):
So on June 18th, Hardeep Sja was in the parking lot of the Sikh temple where he serves as president. It was still broad daylight outside and it was still busy. And he was in his truck when two masked gunmen shot and killed him in the parking lot.

2 (18s):
Last night's homicide was a brazen act of violence. Outside a place of worshiped,

1 (25s):
The gunman fled. Nobody knows who they were. The getaway car had been found later, but the police at the time said that they believed it was a targeted murder.

2 (34s):
Make no mistake, Surrey R C M P and the integrated homicide investigation team will put all resources that we can. Behind this we'll follow the trail of evidence.

3 (47s):
Coming up. On today explained how the assassination of Hardeep Singh Nijar opened up a diplomatic abyss between two Democratic allies, Canada and India. Support for this show today comes from Crucible Moments. Crucible Moments is a new podcast from Sequoia Capital and it takes you inside the pivotal decisions that shaped top companies like Airbnb, PayPal 23 and Me and More. You can tune into Sequoia s new podcast series to discover how some of the most transformational companies of the modern era were built. Crucible Moments is out now and available everywhere you get your podcasts.

3 (1m 27s):
And at Crucible moments.com you can listen to Crucible moments. Today,

Nicorette (1m 33s):
Are you ready to quit smoking? A little support can go a long way. Nicorette can increase your chances of quitting by up to 60% versus willpower alone. 'cause when you're dealing with a stressful commute, a tough day at work or a night out with friends, your willpower could use a little help now and then. Nicorette gum fights cravings fast to help give more power to your willpower. Find out more@nicorette.co.uk. Nicorette two milligram gum contains nicotine stop smoking aid requires willpower. Always read the label

5 (2m 6s):
To see Arch VA Rejo you are listening to today explained.

3 (2m 15s):
A lot of people say Sikh, but most Sikhs say Sikh Canadian citizen Hardeep Singh Nijar was murdered outside of a Sikh temple in the Vancouver area in June. But the wildest thing about this story didn't happen till last week. And since then it's just kept snowballing. Nadine Yusef's been covering it for the B B C from the jump.

1 (2m 37s):
There are two competing narratives of who Hardeep Sshh Najjar is. So it depends on who you ask. In the Sikh community in British Columbia, he is a very well-respected community leader, temple leader.

6 (2m 51s):
Everyone is so like feeling so sad here 'cause he was so good guy.

7 (2m 56s):
I have a lot of respect for Mr. Niger. He was a very nice person and he was a very able leader.

1 (3m 4s):
He also advocated for the creation of a separate independent state for Sikhs in India called Stan. Mm

8 (3m 13s):
India home for the Hindu majority. Pakistan created for Muslims, but Punjab overlapping the new border. Left six without the independent state. They wanted today some Sikh in Canada continue to call for an independent Kastan wanting to claim a large area over Northern India. And he

1 (3m 33s):
Basically always said that he was a peaceful advocate for this.

9 (3m 38s):
Just hours before he was killed, Niger talked to the congregation about a referendum he was helping organize for an independent kastan.

1 (3m 46s):
So that's sort of like the narrative of who he is within Canada. And when you ask his supporters,

3 (3m 53s):
Okay, so, so community leader all around, good guy, peaceful separatist. What's the other story?

1 (4m 0s):
Right? So the second narrative is the one that the Indian government has put forward that he's a terrorist.

10 (4m 7s):
In 2014, India's Prime minister Narendra Modi issued an arrest warrant for Niger, calling him the mastermind of the Stan Tiger Force, which the Indian government considers a terrorist group.

1 (4m 18s):
You know, India has actually tied him to a number of terrorist attacks in the country. There was a cinema bombing in 2007 that killed six people. They've also tied him to the assassination of a Sikh politician in India. And as recently as 2020, he was on India's sort of most wanted terrorist list. And last year, I believe the Indian government even issued a cash award for any information on him. So, you know, up until very recently, he was very much on the Indian government's radar as a wanted terrorist.

10 (4m 48s):
In 2022, the RC MP's National Security Division, Warren Niger, he was under threat of assassination.

3 (4m 55s):
Alright, so that's a bit of background on Hardeep Singh Nijar. How do we go from his death in June to what happened just several days ago when Justin Trudeau said on the floor of parliament that India was behind this killing.

1 (5m 11s):
So like I mentioned earlier, hadeeps Najaro was very much respected in his community in British Columbia. And you know, as soon as he died, the sea community had always been very vocal about their suspicions that India was behind the murder.

11 (5m 27s):
I was not, we're not gonna hunger God

9 (5m 29s):
Is

1 (5m 29s):
Done. Back in July, there were protests across the country, specifically in Vancouver and Toronto that were held by supporters of Hardeep Sshh Najar supporters of the Stan movement. And so these protests were staged across the Indian consulates and the Indian High Commission to demand accountability that

12 (5m 47s):
We believe that there's foreign interference involved in this. That the government of India wanted him eliminated And, that we feel, we feel as a community, that he has made a target for that that reason.

1 (5m 57s):
You know, I should say that of Canadian residents, 2% of those are Sikhs. And so, you know, we're talking about a large community, a sizable community with a lot of influence and with very deep roots in the country from coast to coast. At the G 20 summit in early September, which was held in India Prime Minister Nadra Modi of India and Prime minister Justin Trudeau of Canada had a meeting. And by all accounts it was a very tense meeting.

13 (6m 25s):
Canadian government officials acknowledged that Justin Trudeau's relationship with host Nadra Modi is not good. Modi today pushed Trudeau to reign in six separatists in Canada, and Trudeau says he pushed back on Indian interference in Canada. It

1 (6m 39s):
Was just in the few days after that that Justin Trudeau made this bombshell and it really was a bombshell declaration in the House of Commons. On the record, he stood up and said,

14 (6m 50s):
Today I am rising to inform the house of an extremely serious matter. Over the past number of weeks, Canadian security agencies have been actively pursuing credible allegations of a potential link between agents of the government of India and the killing of a Canadian citizen, our Deep Singh Nija.

1 (7m 15s):
He was very careful with the words that he chose, but I think the fact that he said it out loud in such a public forum kind of speaks volumes in and of itself.

3 (7m 25s):
Did he present or allude to any smoking gun, to any evidence that would tie the Indian government and the Modi to this assassination?

1 (7m 38s):
So of course Trudeau was questioned a lot about this at the onset of him making this accusation. At first, the Canadian government was pretty quiet on the nature of the evidence that they have or even the source of the evidence. They did say that it was shared with their allied countries. So for example, the us, the uk, Australia and New Zealand, they all operate under this network called the Five Eyes with Canada. And so all of those countries were privy to that intelligence, but they kept it pretty quiet on what the intelligence actually is. Since then, thanks to the work of journalists at C B C and the New York Times, we've learned that Canada has been briefed on the issue by US intelligence.

1 (8m 17s):
After the death of hard deeps Jore, we also learned that Canada had intercepted communication of Indian diplomats and whatever Canada was able to find within that communication contained the quote unquote smoking gun that linked the Indian government to the murder. Now because this is sort of highly classified intelligence, again We don't really know still much on what exactly was smoking gun was or even what the US has shared with Canada. That sort of gave them the context to look into this. But we do know that it was, you know, compelling enough at least to drive the Prime minister to make the accusation so publicly against India.

3 (8m 56s):
And as you said, just you know, a week or so earlier, Justin Trudeau was in India shaking hands with Narendra Modi. It's not every day a world leader accuses another of committing an assassination in a sovereign country. How did India respond to this accusation?

1 (9m 18s):
India has been very upset.

15 (9m 21s):
India has rejected allegations by Canada and calling the accusations absurd and motivated. That's the big breaking news that we are getting on our screens right now. Ever

1 (9m 29s):
Since Justin Trudeau came up and accused India publicly, they've been escalating day after day in terms of the response. So at first they denied any involvement with the murder. They said it was absurd. Then they expelled a diplomat, a Canadian diplomat from India. They have also issued a travel advisory to Indians wanting to come to Canada, basically saying it's unsafe

16 (9m 53s):
A threat assessment the Canadian government strongly disagrees with.

17 (9m 57s):
People can read into that what they want. Canada's a safe country.

16 (10m 1s):
Other mps were more blunt,

17 (10m 3s):
Sounds like a joke.

1 (10m 4s):
Just more recently they've stopped issuing visas to Canadians that want to come to India India. So India has really sort of escalated their response first denying up until outright denying visas to Canadians to come to the country.

3 (10m 20s):
Hmm. Can you tell me how, how Canadians are responding to the accusation from Justin Trudeau and now to the reaction from India?

1 (10m 30s):
So among the Sikh diaspora, there was no surprise in the sense that they have always suspected that India might have been behind this. And the reason is because, you know, there's widespread fear in the community. And this is just what I'm hearing from, you know, Sikh people that we've talked to since all of this unfolded. There was always a widespread fear in the community that don't say too much, don't be vocal, you know, you could be a target, you might not be able to go back home to India. There's always fear that, you know, they're under surveillance or being watched by like agents of the Indian state. And so when they heard that, you know, one of their own might have been murdered on Canadian soil, you know, by somebody who's related to the Indian government, it confirmed their suspicions, but they were still shocked that it was said so openly.

1 (11m 16s):
And I think there's just widespread shock among the rest of Canadians because I don't think we've ever seen something like this. I don't think we've ever seen such a public accusation. And it raises the questions of are our borders safe? Is Canada safe? You know, and what can we do about it?

3 (11m 42s):
Not saying India did it, but if they did, why they might feel like they could get away with it when we're back. On today. explained

Deleteme (11m 58s):
Support for today explained comes from Delete me. Delete me, believes your personal data should be personal, but sometimes it's not. There's a lot of data breaches and phishing scams in the wrong hands. Of course, your private data can be used for identity theft. Delete Me offers a way to keep your personal information personal according to Delete Me. They can identify where your data is online and they can remove it on your behalf. Sarah Frank, who works on the business side of things here at Vox, got a chance to try out Delete me. And here's how it went. I Recently had the opportunity to test out Delete Me, and I was really flabbergasted. They gave me a report of more than 50 companies with my data. It was pretty shocking, but Delete Me made it super easy for me to remove my data from these sites. Right now you can get 20% off your Delete Me Plan when you go to join delete me.com/today and use promo code today. The way to get 20% off is to go to join delete me.com/today and enter promo code today at checkout. That's join deleteme.com/today. Promo code today.

Noom (13m 6s):
Support for today Explained comes from noom. There is a whole big weight loss industry. It can be hard to figure out what works for you. Noom wants to tell you a bit about noom. Noom uses science and personalization to try to help you manage your weight over the long term. Noom says that their psychology-based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors and you can decide how Noom fits into your life and not the other way around. Noom offered a sample of 4,272 numer and 98% of them said Noom helped them change their habits and behaviors for good. Sarah Frank is my colleague here at Vox who works on the business side of things. She had a chance to try out Noom and tell us how it went. There were days where I was overeating based on my goal and days where I was undereating and Noom had a very clever way of also matching my mood to those days. So I could actually see after about a week that I tend to eat less on days that I'm a little anxious or stressed and days that I'm more relaxed, I'm eating more and I know some people's habits are the opposite of that. You can sign up for a trial today@noom.com. That's N O O m.com to sign up for a trial today.

20 (14m 19s):
Rahi your you're listening to today, explain

3 (14m 28s):
Sean Rames from joined now by Professor Han Norden, Indian Politics, Georgetown University. We asked him what he made of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's accusations

21 (14m 38s):
What Mr. Trudeau is accusing India of is pretty unheard of between two democratic countries that have a large diasporic connection and where there's been lots of progress on trade talks and all sorts of other cooperation. So it's hard to understate the seriousness of the allegations made. And unfortunately, the response of the Indian government has mounted and the, you know, tit for tat going on with Canada suggests that the worst is yet a head in terms of the bilateral relationship between these two countries when hopes that karma heads will prevail. And eventually we'll be able to talk to each other about what actually happened. But for right now, there's much more noise than there is clarity of thought and reason.

3 (15m 23s):
And the timing here couldn't be worse because India is trying to cultivate a very different image globally, right?

21 (15m 30s):
India has been working incessantly for the last decade, maybe longer, to really establish itself as a player on the world stage. And 2023 was the culmination of all of those efforts. You had the high profile state dinner for Mr. Modi, hosted by President Biden toast

22 (15m 51s):
To our partnership, to our people, to the possibilities that lie ahead to two great friends, two great nations, and two great powers. Cheers.

21 (16m 2s):
Mr. Modi followed that up with the be the chief guest at Francis Bastille Day celebrations in July.

15 (16m 9s):
So there you have that hug between Prime, minister Modi and President Macron. The warmth core of between these two leaders has been on display for the last two days.

21 (16m 19s):
India just hosted the G 20 summit as president of the G 20, A little over

23 (16m 23s):
Two hours to go before Central Deli is in lockdown.

21 (16m 27s):
So coming to the United Nations this week should have been, you know, a real coming out party for India as now a recognized player on the world stage, a member of the Quad, all sorts of accolades and recognition that India is not just, you know, a country that's poor and large and democratic, but in fact one that is a counterbalance to China. You know, a country that has a role determining what the future of the world could look like For Delhi. This allegation by Mr. Trudeau could not be worse. It changes the script of what they were hoping the conversation could be in New York City.

21 (17m 8s):
Really a conversation about how successful G 20 had been under India's watch and what would come next. And instead everyone's talking about this bombshell allegation made by the Canadian government. India would love for the conversation to be about anything else than this, because partly what it does is reopen a lot of conversations that India would much rather avoid conversations about its record under Mr. Modi about human rights, democratic backsliding attacks in the press, and indeed a long, troubled relationship with the country's religious minorities.

3 (17m 42s):
All the reporting we have suggests that Prime minister Justin Trudeau may have tried to maintain the image India was trying to boost on the world stage. He spoke to Modi about this privately at the G 20 summit in India. Why do you think he went public?

21 (18m 3s):
Impossible to know for sure, of course, but most plausible explanations are two Tosh population in Canada is long settled, politically influential and very critical to Mr. Trudeau's political survival. The new Democratic party, which is provides support to Trudeau's government in parliament, is headed by a Sikh Canadian. You have a community that is very politically empowered and a sense that this murder in June was going unaccounted for no justice has got to have been a source mounting pressure domestically for Trudeau.

21 (18m 43s):
So one possibility is that if Trudeau saw no real progress happening in the private consultations with the Indian government, that he needed to score points at home by being seen to be doing something on behalf of the Sikh community and of Canadian citizens more generally. The other is a possibility that this was increasingly a liability at home. If in fact the news that there was credible intelligence collected by the Canadian authorities linking the Indian government was, you know, likely to be leaked to the media by other sources, And, that Trudeau would rather have gotten out in front of that rather than have it come out some other way.

21 (19m 23s):
So for me, regardless of how we cut it, the truth is that this is as much about domestic politics as it is about the bilateral relationship on both sides.

3 (19m 33s):
Let's assume that Justin Trudeau has receipts And that the intelligence is good. Why would India act so brazenly and assassinate a Canadian citizen on Canadian soil?

21 (19m 49s):
It's hard to imagine what India might have been thinking if, of course this is in fact true. But there's a couple of ways in which you might speculate as to what could have been going on the Sikh separatist issue that is now largely a diaspora talking point. There isn't really an active Sikh separatist movement in India and hasn't been really for ma many decades now, but it remains an emotive mobilizing issue in the diaspora communities in particular, the Canadian and UK diasporas. Those have been a long problem for India that sees the Canadian government as appeasing a group of people that are owly advocating for separatism, right?

21 (20m 33s):
India's rhetoric would say these are anti-national. The long history of that movement is troubled with active terrorist activities, including the bombing of a passenger airplane flown by Air India.

9 (20m 47s):
Air India. Flight 1 8 2 was en route from Vancouver to London and India on June 23rd, 1985. It exploded in the skies over Ireland. The suspects seek extremists hoping for an independent homeland in India.

21 (21m 6s):
So there's a lot of blood on the hands of the separatist movements. And for the Indian government, this has been a longstanding grouse with Canada, the notion that Canada was playing too soft with this population and not taking India's concerns seriously. So let's put that on one side. The other issue is that within the Indian context, the notion of extra judicial killings is unfortunately commonplace. The National Human Rights Commission of India documents some 800 plus encounter killings, which is the Indian pollens for an extra judicial killing by the police in the last six years alone. It is so common that encounter has become a verb in Indian jargon.

26 (21m 50s):
And the breaking news we're getting to you on the ed sun encounter cases. We've got the first eyewitness account,

21 (21m 58s):
So one could imagine a confluence of issues, a place in which the Indian intelligence services are using a tactic that they've used a lot on domestic soil, coupled with a sense that this was an emotive issue, that Mr. Najar was the kind of person that they saw as being someone who was beyond their reach in terms of normal extradition kind of proceedings. But that if allowed to sort of continue would just raise more and more issues for India.

3 (22m 30s):
Is it bad for Narendra Modi at home? Because as you and I have discussed previously on this show, his extremist tactics in the past have boosted support for him.

21 (22m 41s):
Mr. Modi is likely to come out pretty unscathed at home. The truth is that the Indian public is so used to the notion of an extra judicial killing that it's not like you're going to be raising any eyebrows, even if true. But more importantly, he's going to be able to spin this as a vociferous denial of the allegations being willing to take on Canada, on the world stage. And that plays to a particular form of nationalism, jingoism in the Indian public that really wants a muscular response for India on the world states. There's a deep resentment among a large part of the Indian public that sees itself as having been pushed around for too long by the west.

21 (23m 25s):
And Modi is a master at tapping this anti westerns resentment that resides in the hearts and minds of lots of Indians, even as they aspire to a much deeper, closer relationship with the West. Everyone's gonna be a rally around the flag kind of thing. They're gonna deny the allegations, they're gonna put the onus on candidate to make their receipts and intelligence public betting that can is not going to want to do that for security protocol reasons. But the other part of it is that I think Modi is also calculating that whatever negative press gets played internationally is gonna be short-lived because Modi understands.

21 (24m 5s):
And the state dinner in June confirmed this Bastille Day in France confirmed this. The G 20 in Delhi just confirmed this, that India is now increasingly seen as indispensable on the world stage. That the Biden administration has decided in a very old fashioned cold realist perspective, that whatever India's problems might be at home in terms of democracy, human rights, its value as a major economic power for trade, as a potential security partner to counter China beats all of those other considerations. And so this is a case of Modi feeling quite sure that no matter what happens, he's going to be able to move on with the relationship with the United States, with the UK and other Western powers because they need him much more than he thinks he needs them.

3 (24m 57s):
So we're not saying India did it, but we are saying India thinks it can get away with murder

21 (25m 2s):
Your words, not mine. But yes,

3 (25m 15s):
Professor Han Norden Indian politics at Georgetown University in Washington d c. Earlier in the show you heard from Nadine Yussef, she's the BBC's Canada correspondent. Our program today was produced by Miles Bryan. We were edited by Amina Aldi, FactCheck by Laura Bullard and Serena Solin and mixed by Patrick Boyd. And one last thing before we go, On today explained we are working on a very unrelated episode about Airbnb bands New York City's game-Changing limits on short-term rentals just went into effect. We wanna hear about your Airbnb experiences, the good ones, the bad ones, the nightmarish ones. Give us a call and leave us a short and sweet voicemail at 2 0 2 6 4 3 0 3 1 4.

3 (26m 3s):
We may very well use your message on the show. Again, the number 2 0 2 6 4 3 0 3 1 4. Thank you.

Amp (26m 36s):
Get connected to a community of music lovers with Amp Amazon's live audio app. With access to over 100 million songs, you can curate and share live playlists highlighting what you think is the next big thing in music. Share your favorite tracks with other AMP users on your own live audio show and join the discussion in real time through live chat or call in because on Amp everyone has a voice. You can even reach new audiences and get paid via the creator fund. Flex your music taste and find your music community on amp. Download Amp on iOS in the app store or for Android in the Google Play Store. Available in the US only.

Viator (27m 16s):
Traveling is amazing. Dealing with logistics, not so much via tour can help make travel simple and enjoyable. Via Tour has over 300,000 bookable experiences, ranging from simple tours to extreme adventures. Plus, via tour's experiences have millions of real traveler reviews. So you'll have the information you need to book the best activities for your trip. Download the Via Tour app now and use code via Tour 10 for 10% off your first Booking one app over 300,000 experiences. You'll remember. Do more with via tour.