0 (1s):
I remember way back in 1997 when Puffy dropped, I'll Be Missing You. My first reaction was, wow. He sampled the police. That same year, will Smith dropped Men in Black to go along with his movie. And I didn't even know at the time that he basically lifted an entire song called Forget Me Knots by Patrice Russian

1 (24s):
Get Me Knots.

0 (25s):
But now, 25 ish years later, I hear this kind of thing happening all the dang time. Someone did the Rickroll song of all the songs.

2 (33s):
Never Gonna Take No

1 (35s):
Love,

2 (36s):
Never gonna Lose my songs.

0 (38s):
Last summer, there were two songs that were just like Elton John Classics, one by Britney Spears, one by Dua Lipa Pop Music's got a nostalgia industrial complex and we're getting into it on today. Explain

3 (1m 6s):
The 14th season of The Real Housewives of New York just premiered with an entirely new cast. and yet the show is just as addictive as it's always been. The

4 (1m 15s):
Thing about Housewives is it's a little bit like Saturday Night Live As, much as people kind of come in and go out of it, the franchise is stronger than any of the players.

3 (1m 28s):
We break down the lasting influence of The Real Housewives, and we rank our favorites this week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast.

5 (1m 41s):
On criminal We bring you true crime stories told by people who know them best.

6 (1m 47s):
We didn't believe in setting fires 'cause that was too dangerous. We were, you know, a kind, a gentler kind of crooks, so to speak.

5 (1m 54s):
So, the best plan you had was that you'd LaSow it.

7 (1m 57s):
Yes, Never imagined I'd use it for a camel.

5 (2m 2s):
I'm Phoebe Judge, and this is Criminal Did. you have to say what was in the box.

1 (2m 8s):
Phoebe We told lies

5 (2m 10s):
Listen to criminal every week, wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (2m 28s):
A couple months back we talked to Jason Green from Pitchfork about how Ed Sheeran got sued for making a song.

1 (2m 35s):
So, honey, now take me arms

0 (2m 44s):
That some would say sounded way too much like another song.

1 (2m 49s):
I've Been So Long.

0 (2m 59s):
Head Shearon won the lawsuit, but Jason recently wrote about a similar but different phenomenon in popular music when songs sound exactly like other songs by design.

8 (3m 10s):
And this is because some very business savvy people have spotted that the, the value of well-known intellectual property in pop music has been skyrocketing. And they have bought up with their significant holdings and power, a huge portion of most of what normal, you know, Western, whatever American listeners consider to be the most beloved pop music and pop songs of the past 50 to 100 years.

0 (3m 40s):
Jason calls this music's industrial nostalgia complex. I asked him how this is different from what Puffy or Will Smith were doing in the nineties. What's

8 (3m 51s):
Different, and this is a crucial not academic difference at all, is who's the person behind it? Puff Daddy was doing that work. Yes, he was sort of looking at his pop music factory as a factory, as a hit factory. you know, like many super producer entrepreneurs of your, but he was ultimately still a producer. you know, while he blurred the line between being a c e o and a creative, he was, he was on stage, he was a performer, he was in the music videos. He was not someone behind the scenes and it was his creative decision to take these beloved songs and remake them.

8 (4m 36s):
So for a thought experiment, imagine that it actually went, that some other guy that no one in who listens to music has ever heard of because he's vice president of whatever, at some record company pulls Puff Daddy aside and says, Hey listen, we need

9 (4m 52s):
You to sample. I'm coming out because our company just acquired this and we need you to take it and use it, but don't mess with it too much because if you do, we won't get as big of a payout.

8 (5m 2s):
And he says, I like this right here. Come

0 (5m 4s):
On. This is very intentional business strategy seeping into the creative process.

8 (5m 11s):
One of these music publishing companies that has sort of been at the forefront of this extremely aggressive and very novel and new technique of guarding over your corporate property. Your intellectual property is a company called Primary Wave. you know,

10 (5m 27s):
We're starting the tracks. you know, we've taken a lot of the melodies from a lot of our classic songs and you know, maybe had someone throw down a guitar riff, you know, of just the melody and then, you know, give it to a producer who could put track drums down on it and, and actually build a track maybe without lyrics. And then, so when we're pitching an idea, it's not like, oh, what do you think about covering this song?

8 (5m 44s):
Now, primary wave, and this is crucial to this story, they are not people who came from music publishing. Music publishing has historically been an extremely dry and sleepy area of the music business. No one was looking to shake it up. You were just there to sign a piece of paper. But these people at Primary Wave came from the late nineties world of major label CD market. Boom. They are ex-US managers. Hmm. Three guys left Arista Records in the late nineties, roughly when Carlos Santana's Supernatural sold 10 million records. Right? This is still a time when major labels were just printing money and recording their highest ever grosses.

8 (6m 29s):
And these people were behind the helm. The guy I spoke to at Primary Wave, the current president had a hand in Carlos Santana's Supernatural, right? And that was interesting because that's a project where he took a legacy artist and reintroduced him to massive financial gain, right? That record went diamond. So these people, as they saw the music industry was cratering around them, at least as they had known and built it. These are the people who were, you know, this is the private jet years of the CD era. And then Napster hits, you know, as the first shockwave, and this is roughly when these three very savvy people, Larry Massel, the c e o and founder Justin Chuka, the president, and later on, a guy named Adam Lowenberg, who worked with Avril Levine and helped break her.

8 (7m 23s):
They gathered together and form a music publishing company called Primary Wave. Hmm. And at this point, they're, they're really out in the wilderness. They're the only people who've decided that this is where they're gonna take their task. But Larry Massel was a visionary in the sense that he saw that there was going to be more demand in, in the coming decades for catalog.

11 (7m 43s):
The vision was to provide a lot more human focus, our human resources in focusing on iconic and legendary artists. So when we started in 2006, as opposed to investing in accounting people and royalty people and copyright registration people, most of the partners that I brought on very early were people that could drive the top line.

8 (8m 11s):
And they ended up at the forefront of a lot of what has now become super commonplace. And that is they've acquired the rights to massive artist catalogs that they then own either a piece of or a hundred percent of depending, many of them are catalogs by artists who are deceased. And so when they are dealing with this artist's catalog, if they have the blessing of the estate, in some ways, they have a more efficient way of maneuvering because there is no living artist in the room with them to talk to them about what they think they should be doing with their catalog. To that end, their first big purchase that they made headlines with was that they very presciently got the catalog of Kurt Cobain,

0 (8m 54s):
But what do they do with it? 'cause I haven't heard like a Kurt Cobain hook in a Dua Lipa song yet.

8 (8m 60s):
No, they don't do that. But this is where this new mentality that the primary wave guys were bringing to the industry comes into play. They said, no, we're gonna monetize this. We're gonna work this catalog as if they were artist development a andrs. Right? And you said, what do they do with it? Well, it took them many, many years. But over the course of the next decade, what they did manage to do was sort of plant the seeds for, and help stoke the fires of and arrange the meetings around the documentary montage of Heck.

12 (9m 31s):
I accumulated quite a healthy complex, not to mention a complexion. Then one day I discovered the most ultimate form of expression ever. Marijuana, oh boy, pot. I could escape all day long and not have routine nervous breakdowns.

8 (9m 46s):
Which if you recall, was this very impressionistic piece of sort of biographical docudrama that was largely basically based on the fact that there was this treasure trove of home recordings. This is Kurt Cobain at home on his couch, strumming his, his acoustic guitar humming to himself, the melody for a song that might go on to become something from nevermind, right? You can hear him muttering the melody to poll, right?

8 (10m 28s):
They're trying to basically invent a biopic as the rights holders to their publishing. No one's even dared to think of, think this audaciously. So while this is happening, they test out some other pretty big moves. And one of them that they were very proud of, 'cause I spoke to all three of those people, Larry Massel, Adam Lowenberg, and Justin Shoe Katt. I spoke to all three of them. And the one that Adam Lowenberg was, was most proud to tell me about was this campaign they devised in 2009 around Aerosmith's Dream on, which is, you know, the proto power ballot. It's the the first lighter waiver song, arguably, you know, in rock history up there with Stairway to Heaven, iconic, everyone knows it, everyone knows it within 10 seconds.

8 (11m 11s):
And they devise a lottery tie in around this song because as you know, I think they surmised in their sort of pitch meeting, there's something dreamy about thinking you'll win the lottery. And they wanna stoke that. So they approach lottery vendors. I can't imagine in the history of music publishing that any pop music catalog owner had ever approached the lottery vendor before for a meeting ever. But they basically approach a lottery vendor and say, Hey, we have this idea for, for Boston and Massachusetts, which is Aerosmith's hometown and home state. We wanna run an Aerosmith themed lottery campaign. And so what we're gonna do is we're gonna brand it with our logo.

8 (11m 51s):
And when you scratch off the lyrics to this song that we own is gonna be on the card. Hmm. And then when you promote this campaign on radio stations to get people to buy tickets, guess what? You can play dream on on it.

14 (12m 4s):
Since we introduced Dream on the new Instant Game from the Rhode Island lottery. Seems everyone's getting into it. After all, with a grand prize, $35,000 staring you in the face, wouldn't you jump at the Chance Play Dream on.

8 (12m 24s):
And this was a genius move from a marketing standpoint because it meant they collected revenue streams on the two different ways that you can own rights to a song. They collected money on the right to own a song on paper as in the lyrics and the notes on a page because it's printed on the lottery. So the minute those words appear on the lottery ticket, a check cha-ching goes to Primary Wave, and then they get paid ching again when the song itself, which is the master appears in the campaign. So it's a massive success and it ends up spreading to 10 different states. And this is when I think the big money, green light bulb went on over all, all of their heads.

0 (13m 8s):
His music's nostalgia, industrial complex, good or bad for music. Jason has opinions he'd like to share them with you when we're back on. Today's Support for the show today comes from another show, it's called Owned with Rex Chapman. If someone handed you a huge sum of money to spend on a big ticket item, what would you buy? Personally, I would buy you a house and I would buy you furniture for your house. Maybe a nice Chesterfield or an Ottoman.

0 (13m 49s):
But for the 1% of the 1%, they don't need anyone to give them money. They've already got it. And a lot of them choose to buy entire sports teams. That's what this show's about. From Camp Side Media. You can join Rex Chapman for his new podcast owned every week. You'll get an unfiltered view of some of the most radical backroom stories that come with owning a sports team. You can listen to owned on the Wondery app or wherever you listen to your podcasts. Listeners can get owned episodes early and add free on Wondery Plus, you can join Wondery Plus in the Wondery app or on Apple Podcasts.

15 (14m 35s):
Listen, even if you don't have student loans yourself, you probably know someone that does, which means you also know the system is broken. But have you ever wondered how exactly it got this way?

16 (14m 51s):
There's a high demand for college because of this huge economic shift in the US economy and the global economy. And then you have this like, you know, free flowing access to credit, and then you had uninformed consumers. I mean, this is just a recipe for disaster.

15 (15m 10s):
Your student loan debt. And then some explained that's this week on the weeds. Listen, wherever you get your podcasts,

1 (15m 22s):
Wave

0 (15m 23s):
Today explained is back artists Dead and Alive are selling off their catalogs to companies like Primary Wave so that their music can be milked for profit from now until the sun explodes. We asked Jason Green from Pitchfork to tell us whether this is good or bad or what for, you know, like art and creativity and the like on

8 (15m 45s):
Its face. There is nothing inherently evil with a company trying to make money for like the intellectual property that they hold, right? I think that there's something suffocating in the current way that this is happening because I think that when the proverbial suits, when the people whose job it is that is to look after everything, but the creative side are in the creative process, I think it's rare that that's good for the music or the art. I think that there's always this complicated symbiosis between people like Justin Chuca and you know, someone like Otis Redding. Wow. But I think broadly speaking, it's just not great for creativity as a sort of pursuit, as a muse when the stuff that people use in pop music, which is the catalog, right?

8 (16m 39s):
They reference the catalog either directly or indirectly, whether through sampling or inspiration. When you have people who are so closely guarding those songs as if they were smog the dragon on a big pile of jewels, it's hard to envision a world in which this is liberating for songwriters or for producers who are trying to make good music. Right? And I think it also does something very flattening to one of the most anarchic and vital art forms of the past a hundred years, which is sampling, right? And sampling and money have always had a completely antagonistic relationship back to the eighties when it was a free for all.

8 (17m 22s):
And you know, an album by Public Enemy could stuff hundreds of samples inside of one album. But welcome

1 (17m 27s):
To the Terra,

8 (17m 33s):
The minute that that became verboten because people intervened and said, Hey, this person's gotta get paid for this 'cause you're getting paid for it. Sampling recedes dramatically. Sampling became really expensive because of the legal fees associated with it, to the point where then in the late nineties and the early two thousands, creative rappers and producers and artists found a way around it. They stopped doing it almost like think about the Neptunes or Pharrell. Those were people who, you know, and that's an ironic example I recognize, but like for the majority of the two thousands, what he was known for was crafting his own melodies on a synthesizer that were alien and new and did not sample, you know, soul songs from the eighties, you know, or seventies or anything.

17 (18m 18s):
But you dude, you, I'm sorry.

8 (18m 24s):
What happens when, you know, money becomes so present in this, in this sphere, is that people who are trying to be creative are often punished, right? A classic example that I can't help but use because it's so poignant is De la Soul. If

18 (18m 39s):
You have a creative Mind, you could basically use anything. For example, I could take a record such as a basic Disneyland, Mickey Mouse record, for example. Now people may not believe it, but if you look at these old records, you could find things like drum beats on them.

8 (18m 59s):
De la Soul is an example of like, this is someone, this is, this is a group who treated sampling, you know, like Salvador Dali. Like, they treated it like this absolutely anarchic platform upon which you could do almost anything. You could bend the rules of space and time. You could really, and, and they induce this wonder at the human mind and its ability to sort through all these things, right? It was glorious, and I think it's really telling and poignant that De La Soul's music was barred from being on streaming services because of rights issues for decades

0 (19m 30s):
Until just recently.

8 (19m 32s):
And so I just, that proprietary sort of mentality just never suits creators. It never suits creativity. It's bad, I would say like objectively bad for the art form that we love. It's good for very few people, and I would say either dulling or monotonous for listeners, because the nature of the way that these copyrights are exploited means that they don't really want you to mess around with it as a producer, right? They want it to sound recognizably like their song. Let

0 (20m 1s):
Me play devil's advocate for a second here. I do wonder if ultimately it's good to be reminded how great a song Rocket Man was, or how great a song never going to give you up was

2 (20m 23s):
Never,

0 (20m 32s):
Even if it comes at the cost of hearing it in some, you know, cheesed up, mass produced single.

8 (20m 39s):
I mean, I would argue that that song is very well loved. That's the reason it was pointed to. The reason it was pointed to and chosen was not because, you know, it was a song that someone out there thought the world needed to be reminded of. it was chosen because they knew it was a song. Everyone already was new to the point of being sick of it was ready made, it would defeat their purpose in many ways if they were farming out more obscure stuff. Mm. Cultural attention is not a a, an endlessly renewable resource there, there's a finite amount of cultural attention, right? We only give our, our, our bandwidth to so many songs by so many artists. you know, unless you're a maniac like me who's consuming hundreds of records and keeping literal spreadsheets, right?

8 (21m 23s):
But no one's like me, they're just out there listening to charts and a hot 100. Like, it's a very recursive place right now. It's very empty, it's very full of recycled air. So I I I can't imagine that it's a good thing, right? If anything, it makes people tired. I've heard this before. Why am I hearing this again when I listen to Nicki Mina's super freak At this point? Because we've already done this twice, right? We've done it with Mc Hammer can't

1 (21m 56s):
Touch this. You can't touch this

8 (22m 0s):
Big Sean who sampled this song in 2010. And maybe you're also being reminded of Rick James if you're old enough, but I don't think that this song out there is making, I mean, again, someone might in the comments be like, well, I'm this years old and I didn't know about Super Freak. Right? There's always a time, but I can't help but feel like there's more out there. Right? And what this shows is a profound lack of imagination

1 (22m 38s):
And never let your spirits down once get off the street. Blow.

0 (22m 46s):
One final devil's advocate thought the Beatles were in a way repurposing Little Richard. The Rolling Stones were in a way repurposing all the blues that they'd ever heard, right? Beyonce wrote one of the most critically acclaimed albums of our young decade, and it's a lot of samples. And, and, and my favorite Billy Eilish song sounds just like a Weezer track from the nineties. you know what I mean? Like, oh yeah. Are is, is music always sort of thrown back? And is music always referencing and always, you know, acknowledging nostalgia?

0 (23m 27s):
Yes,

8 (23m 27s):
Of course. But what's different now is that you have effectively patented trolls who are blocking access and, and, and hoarding resources. That's not good. To me, this was a story about like end stage capitalism, right? Because these are also people who decided to stop working with, with living artists and mostly manage the affairs of dead ones. Hmm. They're like, it's too hard to make money off of living artists, so let's transition and let's work with the catalogs of ones that everyone already knows. And they, they all said some version of this, our job is really easy. Hmm.

10 (24m 1s):
We had this idea, and again, it, it was really, you know, giving the creatives, leading them to water. Not telling them they had to do this, but say, Hey, here's the breadth of our catalog.

8 (24m 10s):
When you already own the catalog to the most beloved music of the past 50 years, your job is really easy. I don't have to walk into a room and convince everyone that this new artist is great. Everyone already knows this stuff is great and that's why they're there.

0 (24m 27s):
So maybe worse than how, how poorly it affects the listener who only has so much time to spend on culture. It's really bad for new art.

8 (24m 36s):
I think it can't be good for new art. I don don't. Yeah. I think it can't be good.

1 (24m 44s):
Let you Down, make you

0 (24m 52s):
Jason Green Pitchfork. Our show today was inspired by an article he wrote titled Everything is Interpolated Inside Music's Nostalgia industrial complex. You can find it at Pitchfork dot com. Our show was produced by Haddi Mawajdeh, edited by Matthew Collette. Fact checked by Serena Solin and mixed by both Patrick Boyd and Michael Rayfield. I'm Sean Rames. For the rest of the today Explain team includes Halima Shaw, Abby Shai artsy, Amanda Luellen Miles, Bryan Victoria Chamberlain, SI Petros, Laura Bullard, and my co-host Noel King. Our supervising producer is Amina Aldi. Our executive producer is Miranda Kennedy.

0 (25m 33s):
John Aarons is helping out at the moment. We use music by break cylinder today. Explained is distributed by W N Y C and we are part of the Vox Media Podcast Network.