0 (1s):
My name is Eric Harvey. I'm an associate professor in the School of Communications at Grand Valley State University, but I've also been writing for the website Pitchfork since 2007. In 2023, I wrote the biggest article of my career for Pitchfork, a Sunday review of Pink Floyd's, dark Sidedo the Moon. I spent about five or six months researching and writing and editing the review. I submitted it to Pitchfork and then they published it with a score of 9.3 out of 10, and then all hell broke loose. I got more emails and social media feedback than anything I'd ever written by a lot.

0 (41s):
Half of them were laudatory or congratulatory, and the other half were asking me, Where The, hell are the other point. Seven points. That to me is Pitchfork on today. Explained the agony and ecstasy of Pitchfork and how we'll discover music without it.

‎The Gray Area  (60s):
Sean Ling here, host of the Gray area on our show. We delve into the ambiguities around the world's biggest questions, which is why I spoke with Maggie Jackson, who wrote a book about the joys of uncertainty. If We approach uncertainty knowing it's a space of possibilities, then we, you know, roll up our sleeves and be present in the moment and start investigating and exploring. Hear more of our conversation on this week's, the Gray area available wherever you get your podcasts.

Vox (1m 33s):
Hey there. Before we get into today's show, I wanna ask you about something. So this month, primaries for the 2024 election begin and we all deserve to have clear, concise information on what this election could mean for our lives, our family's lives. Misinformation is a big deal this time around. It's not just Pope Francis in a puffer jacket. There's a lot out there that's really challenging to wade through financial contributions from our listeners. Empower us to do all of this and help us keep today explained free for everyone. You can go to Vox dot com slash give to contribute. And I just wanna thank you for your support.

5 (2m 13s):
This is the worst thing I've ever heard. 4.3 outta 10

0 (2m 23s):
Today. Explained Ramas firm about a week ago. Conde Nast laid off a ton of people at Pitchfork and in the days since everyone's been writing these obituaries for what was maybe the most influential music publication on the internet, from Rolling Stone to the New York Times to Vulture.

6 (2m 40s):
My name is Craig Jenkins, music critic at New York Magazine, Vulture, what else?

0 (2m 46s):
Craig Jenkins wrote the one at Vulture,

6 (2m 50s):
You know, 2021. Pulitzer nominee for criticism all around annoying person on the internet for a good 15 years going,

0 (2m 59s):
Craig's being humble. He was a Pulitzer finalist. He also used to write for Pitchfork.

6 (3m 4s):
I wrote a lot of the rap coverage, the reviews from 2013 to 2016. I've written about Drake. Yo man, Kendrick Lamar. Yeah, yeah. Earl Sweatshirt. Tyler's your creator. Okay,

7 (3m 17s):
Okay, okay, okay, okay. Okay.

6 (3m 19s):
Childish Gambino, the Migos, whatever was new and interesting

0 (3m 28s):
For the uninitiated. We asked Craig to explain what made this site exceptional.

6 (3m 34s):
What you saw in Pitchfork was a matter of perspective for fans. It was a music discovery factory where you could find out about great or terrible art inside and outside the mainstream field. And you could click around, you could check the good reviews, you could check interesting interviews. You could find out about news that was not getting, you know, published everywhere. There were a lot of cracks in the coverage up till the nineties at the Prestige outlets. There was a lot of stuff that they weren't able to catch or even interested in. There was antagonism towards certain genres. There was just a lot of real estate for someone to come in and and have a different perspective on what was going on in music at the time. And you know, a lot of people did, I don don't want to give the one site that credit, but for whatever reason that was the one that, well, yeah, it was persistence a and b brashness good and bad.

6 (4m 24s):
That, you know, turns them into the one that the most people read, argue with, fight with the most. But there is a very strong chance that you might've heard about Arcade Fire Def Cab for Cutie Modest Mouse, LCD Sound System. you know, just think of any indie stable that's been around since the two thousands, the huge stuff that wasn't on the radio. A lot of it came up through there and a lot of it was champion there first.

0 (4m 50s):
So yeah, it wasn't just Pitchfork, there were a bunch of other websites doing this work like, like Stereo Gum or even like the Onions AV Club or

6 (4m 59s):
Pop Matters. There were so many.

0 (5m 1s):
I mean, also another thing that was very unique about Pitchfork was it had this 0.0 to 10.0 decimal rating system, which led to people making fun of it of course and, and satirizing it. I remember The Onion once said Pitchfork gives music a 6.8

6 (5m 20s):
Classic writeup.

0 (5m 23s):
Do you have any favorite reviews or, or ones that you can quote that, that sort of give you a sense of what it was like to be in this world?

6 (5m 32s):
Yeah, I've been thinking about the Eminem Show Review. That's a mock email thread. The Daft Punk remix album review, that's a comic strip in part the writeup of Party Traumatic, the debut album by the band Black Kids is just a picture of puppies in a one word apology for hyping the EP in. In addition to being, you know, an outlet where you could celebrate oddball musical geniuses like, you know, Isaac Brock from Modest Mouse or whatever the site did a good bit of deconstructing, reconstructing sort of the very concept of a review. And so kind of the story is it spends a long time tearing the idea apart and then a long time playing tower defense and fortifying itself when it becomes the big fish. Hmm. And you know, a lot of people hated the expansion into more traditional coverage, but personally I saw opportunities to get really granular about popular music at the same time as, you know, just weighing in on whatever indie stuff.

6 (6m 24s):
I don't think my friends are yelling about enough. you know, looking back at stuff that I wrote that I feel like very proud of the Kendrick Lamar to PBA Butterfly Review

9 (6m 38s):
To fight

6 (6m 41s):
Kendrick Lamar's major label albums play out like Spike Lee films and miniature in both artists' worlds. The stakes are unbearably high, the character's motives are unclear and the morality is naughty. But there is a central force you can feel steering every moment we the good hair and bad hair. I agree with this story. Good hair and bad hair. Musical routines from Spike Lee's 1988 feature school days depicted black women grappling with colorism. It

10 (7m 5s):
Ain't even real, you wish you had hair like this girl, you know, you weren't even born with blue eyes. That's right. Blue contact lenses, they're just jealous. Jealous.

6 (7m 15s):
It's the biggest get of my career at the time. But for people who are looking at it from a different perspective, they're upset about, you know, a 0.2 dec o score difference from what they wanted. You couldn't write about this at Pitchfork like 10 years, five years prior. Nobody was trying to hear it. Nobody was there to cover it. Nobody was there to, so like when I, when I like, yeah, I, I wanted to get a certain voice in there and am really crushed about the fact that a lot of those voices are possibly potentially not gonna be there anymore

9 (7m 47s):
Before when Low looking at the world, like where do we go?

0 (7m 54s):
Tell me what is going on with Pitchfork now that we've kind of established what this website was and why it meant so much to people.

6 (8m 1s):
Well, so it, it's been folded into GQ and it seems like a lot of people have been laid off, you know, a lot of foundational staff and editors. It is still pumping out news and reviews. So I am loathed to call it dead necessarily, but it seems like there's not gonna be the lists and the features. There were a lot of the stuff that really kept people chatting in there. It seems like it's gonna pump out reviews maybe underneath a GQ banner, which is trippy because this was built on shooting at that kind of thing was built on having, you know, no regard for, for the big mainstream media stuff. Almost being in opposition to it. And it's like, can you have 25 years in this biz without it turning out that way?

0 (8m 41s):
Yeah. It feels like a lot of people are mourning the loss of something even though it's maybe not quite gone yet. Why do you think that is?

6 (8m 50s):
I realized over a long week of trying to figure out what my next step would be if I got clapped, that I was mourning a version of myself, a way of thinking, a sense of adventure and a, you know, just like a learning about things in ways that I wasn't before. And, and that's what I miss. I miss that era of things in general. I'm reflecting on on what I was like in 2003 and what it was like to like find out about all this stuff that nobody knew about to, to argue with friends about pop records and indie rock at the same time. The kinds of conversations that were forcing this, this website was not don don't wanna say it was central to, but that were happening around it and that it was weaving in and out of.

0 (9m 32s):
But you still have the kind of job that people who love music and music criticism dream of. I know when I see you tweet, like I wrote about ssa, I wrote about Mac Miller, I wrote about John Bryan. I typically have to stop what I'm doing to read what you wrote, but this feels like a dying relationship that people have with music criticism and it feels like platforms like Spotify for example, wanna make y'all completely obsolete by having the robots do all the work of music recommendation. How does that make you feel

6 (10m 9s):
Being that I have yet to run into the suggestion algorithm that quite gets me. Like they can decide if I'm a 70-year-old man or a 20-year-old teenager and like I love to be in that slippery position with them. So, you know, I'm happy for whoever it works for, but just if you're really like a serious music nerd like this, you're gonna find this stuff lacking. I feel like another thing that I've been thinking a lot about lately is this notion that people don't need critics anymore. 'cause they could just go listen to the record. Do you know how long records are? Like, do you want to take 70 minutes to figure out if the new Drake is good or do you want to take five and talk to a trusted guy? you know, like I I, I don't necessarily buy all the notions about the lay of the land and I think that there's still a value for discourse if artists are cussing out their critics and the fans are, you know, using review scores as trophies.

6 (10m 59s):
Certainly something matters to somebody somewhere

3 (11m 4s):
Conductor,

6 (11m 8s):
I feel like there's still life left in it and there's still interest left in it and there's still amazing music happening all the time that deserves attention. So I'm gonna be fighting for that as long as anybody lets me is how I feel about it and when they stop then I'll be don don't know writing about whatever else. Writing is transferable. Kids remember that?

0 (11m 24s):
Amen.

11 (11m 26s):
The money speaking for itself. I call it fortune Tell five top from a work at corporate sales. Chinchilla Shanka. We skiing out, ve breaking news, they try to kill him but the boy prevails. I leave tour

0 (11m 39s):
When we're back on today, explained the next generation of music recommendations, the rise of the machines, the singularity, all that jazz. Another

11 (11m 48s):
Citizen came, they think they some wells Chanel more Chanel. I got these cats tucking tails on four quarter sales. I'm used to seeing tears drop

Hydrow, Inc. (12m 0s):
Support for today. Explained comes from hydro. Hydro is a low impact home rowing machine that is designed by rowers hydro estimates. You can work out 86% of your muscles, your arms, your legs, your core in just 20 minutes. Hydro caters to all fitness levels and their classes are taught by Olympians and world class athletes. Sarah Frank, my colleague on the business, Sidedo things at Vox, tried out the hydro, here's what she thinks. I Was really impressed with the visuals. There's some stunning natural beauty in these workouts, but also the trainers, some of whom are even Olympians in their own right are incredibly motivating, engaging and inspiring. Even when you can feel the burn with the workout Hydro wants you to know those visuals are shot from locations all over the world. They're not shot in a studio. You can join the growing rowing community at Hydro by heading over to hydro.com and using the code explained to save up to $500 off your hydro. That's H-Y-D-R-O w.com code explained. That's H-Y-D-R-O w.com code explained to save up to 500 bucks hydro.com code explained

Wondery (13m 15s):
Support for today Explained comes from the best one yet. A podcast from Wondery. Do you want to hear about the hundred dollars wedding dress that might've just saved Abercrombie, or which tech acquisition feels like Game of Thrones? Remember Game of Thrones or the one financial equation that might finally solve climate change? I don wanna hear about that If? you do Then you might want to check out the Daily podcast. The best one yet. Or T Boy. Hello. It's hosted by ex financiers Nick Martel and Jack raci Kramer. Each episode of T Boy, as they call it, is a quick 20 minutes on what the two of them call pop biz, where pop culture meets business news If. you need some pop biz in your life. You can listen to the best one yet, it's on the Wondery app or it's also wherever you get your podcasts and you can listen to the best one yet ad free. Right now on Wondery plus

TIAA (14m 25s):
TIAA is on a mission. Why? Because 54% of black Americans don't have enough savings to retire. So in collaboration with big name artists like Wyclef Jean, TIAA released paper, Wright New music inspiring a new financial future with 100% of streaming sales, going to a nonprofit that teaches students how to invest stream paper right now and help close the gap

9 (14m 56s):
Today is gonna be

0 (14m 57s):
Explained.

9 (14m 59s):
See you

0 (15m 1s):
First. We had the radio and magazines, then we had websites like Pitchfork and then Spotify showed up to tell you what to listen to. Reporter Ashley Carman wrote about how the world's biggest music platform is changing how we discover Bops from Bloomberg News. We asked her to start in the age before ai.

13 (15m 19s):
So Spotify comes to the US in 2011. So

14 (15m 24s):
How do you characterize Spotify? Is it a musical application? Is it social media? What is it?

15 (15m 30s):
Well, it's really a music app. Yeah, but music, we think music is the most social thing there is. So it's probably a bit of both.

13 (15m 40s):
This is the time of piracy. People are downloading music for free, they're not buying CDs, people have iPods, they're just downloading songs like crazy. And the music industry is really in a time of crisis. Spotify's bet here was that they could get people to pay for subscriptions that are ad free and they can get essentially like access to the world's history of music. So

15 (16m 3s):
What we try to do with Spotify and the goal was to create a service that was actually better than Python. It was simpler, it's easier for people to discover and share music. It's really all that.

13 (16m 14s):
In 2015 Spotify debuts Rap Caviar, which is this flagship playlist that is supposed to really define hip hop. In that moment

16 (16m 24s):
The concept was basically kind of being like Sports center like this is, these are the highlights of

13 (16m 29s):
The culture aren. So that year, you know, rap Caviar takes off, it starts soaring in popularity and eventually a couple years later, Cardi B's success is eventually attributed to this playlist. Hmm. Her team said this actually in a Vulture piece. Hey, a song goes in Rap Caviar and everyone pays attention. Hmm. This was for her single Bodak Yellow, don't let

3 (16m 53s):
This bother me.

13 (16m 56s):
So Rap Caviar reaches the point where without even radio support artists are breaking, they're becoming huge superstars and it's all because of Spotify's editorial placements.

0 (17m 7s):
The certainty here throughout this timeline seems to be that nothing lasts forever. What upsets the dominance of Rap? Caviar

13 (17m 15s):
A few things and Spotify world, Spotify starts shifting people towards these personalized playlists. So you might remember when Discover Weekly came on the scene,

17 (17m 26s):
Discover Weekly, every week you get a personalized playlist of new songs that you've never heard before. We

13 (17m 33s):
Use that was a big phenomenon that people love and I think people still do love. Hmm. Essentially they've just pushed people towards personalized playlists that are a bit more attuned to their specific tastes rather than a one size fits all of a catchall genre or category. But also, I mean one thing that's important to note just in the broader kind of music consumption landscape is that during the pandemic, so you know we're talking 2020 here, TikTok totally takes off and TikTok is obviously very algorithmically curated. It's not necessarily an outright music streaming platform obviously, but music is so innately built into that app that people really start to discover music through it.

0 (18m 20s):
Hmm. And people at Spotify are paying attention to this change. I don't

13 (18m 23s):
Know that we could say how much TikTok specifically pushed them along, but personalization is kind of a buzzword that Spotify has long tracked. And even going back to 2020 again, the CEO of Spotify, Daniel Leck, he mentioned personalization on an earnings call and he was saying yes,

15 (18m 42s):
We're getting better and better at personalization, we're serving better and better contents and more and more of our users are choosing that.

13 (18m 48s):
So you can really see this acknowledgement of the shift outright completely in 2020, but I am sure it happened before then as well.

0 (18m 57s):
So what is this dominant figure in the music curation marketplace space doing now? What are their latest innovations?

13 (19m 5s):
So the biggest thing they're doing is they're starting to shift towards AI playlists. They debuted a playlist called AI DJ last year. What? Yeah, they use generative AI that was trained on one of their employees actually to kind of DJ a set I guess. Huh. So the idea is that the music selections are based on you and your personal taste and then instead of it just being, you know, a regular personalized playlist, the AI generated DJ will, you know, give you some context like a traditional DJ would. So like some facts about the artist or some context or maybe it's just like, hey it's Tuesday, how are you feeling? Or whatever. you know, like it will give you a little extra color to the playlist.

0 (19m 48s):
Where does this AI DJ exist? Let me open up my Spotify. I didn't even know this robot existed.

13 (19m 53s):
If, you go to your phone and then at the top you should see like a bunch of different tabs like music, podcast, audiobooks.

0 (19m 58s):
Okay, so what do I do? I just hit play and it's gonna start yelling at me. Yeah,

13 (20m 1s):
If, you just tap on it.

18 (20m 3s):
Hey, what's going on Sean? It's really great to be here with you. I'm Xavier, my friends call me X and from this moment on I'm gonna be your

0 (20m 11s):
Own personal ai AI

18 (20m 12s):
DJ on Spotify. Yeah, I'm an ai but listen don, don't set timers, don don't switch on your lights. I'm all about music. Your music, I know what you listen to. I see no age there. So I'm gonna be here every day playing those artists you got in rotation going back into your history for songs you used to love and I'm always on the lookout for new stuff too, just to push your boundaries a little bit. I'm gonna come back every few songs to change up the Vive, but if you're ever not feeling the music, there's gonna be a DJ button at the bottom of your screen. Tap that and I'll come back early to switch it up. All right. Enough talk. I mentioned no age, let's get it going with that. And some other music you've been listening to.

0 (20m 52s):
Cute. They're gonna play minor by no age X over here, X gonna give it to you is just playing me music. I already like I could do that myself.

13 (21m 3s):
Yeah, I mean I'd be curious. Yeah, if you're getting a lot of what you've already listened to or If, you think there's some new discovery there.

0 (21m 11s):
The visualization's kind of creepy. It's like a circle with a mouth. I don't like it.

13 (21m 16s):
Yeah.

0 (21m 18s):
But, but I wanna know, do other people like it? Are people using this thing?

13 (21m 22s):
I personally haven't heard anyone like mention A IDJ. To me Spotify says it's very successful. I, I can't remember if they've like shared any specific details about user numbers but they, you know, they haven't said anything to counteract that narrative of like it's a successful launch for 'em. The thing I do see people using more and what they really do seem to like is this day list. Hmm.

20 (21m 42s):
I saw a TikTok where somebody said Spotify has a new personalized playlist called the day list that changes all throughout the day based on what kind of music you usually listen to then. And I was like, oh my god, what's on mine? So this is my yearning, soul crushing, emotional, mellow, dramatic swamp evening.

0 (22m 2s):
What's wrong with just good old fashioned like a this DJ's pretty good and always introduces me to new music. Why did we have to go from the human curated to the algo curated?

13 (22m 14s):
I think there's a few reasons. One is kind of like a typical techie reason, which is like a DJ might push you to try new music that you've never heard before. And is, I guess I would say like make you uncomfortable in the sense of like, I don't know this person. I'm like totally experiencing something new. Which to some people might sound awesome but, but to other people they might be like, no I just wanna hear something I like. I don't really wanna be like pushed, I'm just trying to do a workout here and I want something that works for that moment that works for me. And so if you're a tech company, naturally you're gonna be like, we wanna serve people. Stuff that keeps them using our app. We don't want them to switch off and just do something else with their time or just turn the music off completely.

13 (22m 60s):
Mm. So from there you could see kind of an incentive just to make sure that everyone's having a good time basically. But then also one of the reasons I reported on that Spotify has kind of started to make the shift over to the algorithm is because you know these music curators like the Hu physical humans, it's really difficult to scale them. you know, you would need a huge workforce to cover all the genres, all the different possibilities of situations you might be in that you wanna listen to music. And so really what they're trying to do is like use humans to better classify music that they can then put out into the personalized playlists.

15 (23m 37s):
The truth is, as good as we are at recommendations If, you really put your mind to it. You could create a better playlist yourself, If, you really spent the time on researching and doing all that stuff. I think five years to 10 years from now that will not be true. I think we will do a better job. Even If, you spend a whole working day trying to figure out what you wanted to listen to, we will be able to create a playlist that is so much better than any of that.

0 (24m 5s):
Hmm. Do you think in this new sort of algorithmic driven model, that story you told about Cardi B could still happen?

13 (24m 14s):
I think so, yeah. I do think artists continue to find success on playlists. It's kind of almost like a ladder system. Like maybe you start out on these personalized playlists or like super niche playlists, but then you eventually rise up until you're like on the rap caviar or whatever where you are now on the flagship editorial playlists. And one thing that I know writes holders artists do like about the personalized playlist, or at least they call them alial playlists, is essentially whereas on a flagship playlist, maybe you have 50 artists or something on a personalized playlist. What ends up happening is these human curators might put a hundred artists on the playlist or more and you and I'll have different playlists.

13 (25m 1s):
But essentially, you know, there's still this bucket of people that can be chosen from and it really just allows more artists to be heard rather than limiting the opportunity to just these select lucky artists that are on the flagship playlist.

0 (25m 15s):
Ashley. Do you think there's room for both of these phenomena to exist sort of in perpetuity, the trusted critic review from Craig of the new Jay-Z DeAngelo collaboration as a way of discovering that there's a new Jay-Z DeAngelo collaboration versus the AI dj, which I personally find a little creepy, but I'm sure some people love and yearn for that is giving you all the things you like and maybe based on those things, something that's like it that you might also like.

13 (25m 48s):
Yeah, I mean I think there's a broader crisis around digital media obviously. So like, you know, if you're publishing a an article to a website, like is that a sustainable future in business? you know, I think right now it's in question, but as far as like human beings sharing music they like and like making recommendations, you know, that culture does exist on TikTok. I think there's just more of an open question of like editorial independence and whether people are paid to say that they like something or if they actually like something and then the personalized playlist. Yeah, I think it, you know, there are people that would probably argue that somehow these personalized playlists kind of flatten and culture aren, you lose the nuances of the human existence.

13 (26m 38s):
So I do think there are like a lot of questions about what happens when you lose these independent editorial voices. And I hope there's still room for them, but as of right now, it seems like it's becoming a smaller and smaller opportunity.

0 (26m 59s):
Ashley Carman, she writes about all things audio for Bloomberg News. The program today was produced by Amanda Lewellyn and Haddi Mawajdeh. We were edited by Amina Ade fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Patrick Boyd. This is today explained earlier in the show, you heard from music lover Craig Jenkins who writes beautifully about all the good stuff and some of the bad stuff at Vulture. We asked him what he's listening to.

6 (27m 24s):
Wall of Eyes by the Smile on Tom York and Johnny Greenwood and Tom Skinner. The not Radiohead guys have made a great record that is really gritty and weird and sort of like murky. Just a fun listen. Lee Lee Scratch Perry final album, final Recordings out in February. I really enjoyed them. Hopefully other people will.

3 (27m 46s):
Yeah.

4 (28m 3s):
All right, we've reached the end of the show. You're still here. We put jokes in the credits just for people like you. Now all year we're gonna continue to bring clear and fact-check reporting to this election, to the stakes. And we would welcome your support by giving a monthly or annual contribution. You're gonna gain access to expressions of our gratitude members only newsletters q and as with Vox reporters, Sean will come to your home or office and more to be announced. Our explanatory journalism takes resources and your support is a critical part of sustaining this resource intensive work. You can support our work at today explained by going to Vox dot com slash give and contributing today.

4 (28m 43s):
There's also a link to give in the show notes now if this is not the right time for you, if things are economically tricky, we got you. We'll still be here for you. We'll be doing a show about the economy soon, and we thank you for your support in advance.