0 (0s):
It's been an eventful few weeks today, explained midterm elections, Twitter drama, big tech layoffs, cryptocurrency controversy, a global climate conference, the World Cup, and finally Thanksgiving. We were so busy we didn't get to wrap our heads around the hottest new space news, but thankfully our friends at Unexplainable did. So today we're bringing you their work. Enjoy it. Unexplainable now available wherever you listen. Accept the radio. I don't think they're quite there yet.

2 (40s):
You are watching the Flight Readiness Briefing for NASA's Artemis one mission.

3 (45s):
The agency's artimus mission is being heralded as the start of a new era of space exploration.

4 (52s):
It will be one small step towards one giant leap.

5 (56s):
NASA is closing in on a launch date for Artemis One, the first in a series of missions that'll eventually take humans back to the moon for the first time in over 50 years with one big difference.

6 (1m 8s):
This time we're going back to stay.

5 (1m 12s):
NASA's hoping to land humans on the moon by 2025, but after that they've got bigger plans. They're hoping to build an orbiting lunar space station and a permanent base on the moon itself.

6 (1m 24s):
And our goal is to apply what we've learned living and operating on the moon and continue then out into the solar system. Our plan is for humans to walk on Mars by 2040.

5 (1m 40s):
A permanent moon base and a mission to Mars could be the first steps toward becoming a multi-planetary species where Earth isn't our only home, where we're not confined to one vulnerable pale blue.in case of catastrophe. Eventually we can imagine a solar system full of human life,

7 (1m 59s):
Human settlements in space in which tens of thousands of people will live and work.

5 (2m 5s):
But there's a pretty basic thing standing in the way.

8 (2m 8s):
Okay, we've had a problem here.

9 (2m 11s):
Space is terrible. It wants to kill

5 (2m 13s):
Us. Science writer Rebecca Boyle.

9 (2m 15s):
You know, we've evolved to live on this planet and this planet only

8 (2m 20s):
I'll tell you, pulled up in there,

5 (2m 22s):
Whether it's the weightlessness, the radiation, or even the isolation space is trouble for lots of different kinds of life.

9 (2m 29s):
It's hard to raise fish or rats or mice or any other kind of species that we've taken up there.

10 (2m 35s):
Sadly, 53 mice died in space as did eight gerbils.

9 (2m 39s):
It's hard to even grow plants in microgravity,

5 (2m 42s):
Which makes NASA's grand vision of a permanent presence far from earth. A pretty risky proposition.

9 (2m 49s):
Space is really nasty and it's very hard to be there for any period of time, even with a space suit and a space station surrounding you. Okay,

11 (2m 57s):
Everybody. Look, we got a number of long range problems right now

5 (3m 1s):
And we barely understand the dangers of space, especially when it comes to living far from earth. For a long time, like over 600 people have been to space, but only 24 of them, less than 4% have been more than a couple hundred miles from Earth.

8 (3m 16s):
We'd like to confirm that the world is round

5 (3m 20s):
And that tiny handful barely spent any time out there.

9 (3m 24s):
I mean the, the longest Apollo missions were just a few days

12 (3m 28s):
Odyssey Houston Welcome homeowner.

5 (3m 31s):
That's where the Artemis program comes in. It's often presented as just the next logical step in space, but it's also an experiment to see just how possible NASA's grand vision really is.

9 (3m 43s):
The real goal of all these programs is to learn how to live and work really far from earth. How bad is it? How much can we handle?

5 (3m 53s):
I know I'm Hassenfeld and this week on unexplainable. What does space do to the human body? And if we're planning to have a permanent presence on the moon or even Mars, are we sure we can actually live there? Almost everything we know about the long term effects of humans in space has come from low earth orbit. This area of space, just a couple hundred miles from Earth's surface. That's where astronauts like Ann McClain have spent significant time on the International Space Station.

14 (4m 35s):
You wait your whole life to launch to space and then suddenly it happens

5 (4m 40s):
And launched to the ISS in 2018.

14 (4m 43s):
I just remember feeling the thrust and just kind of this realization that you're leaving the planet and it's really hard to describe, but it's like you're processing something that your brain doesn't have the capacity to process cuz there just hasn't been anything like it before.

5 (4m 57s):
As she left the pull of gravity, she turned and she gazed out this little round window.

14 (5m 3s):
It was all pitch black. And then I saw what looked like a little piece of like flame off of a bunsen burner, you know, like a blue flame. And I thought to myself, well that's, I wonder what that flame on our spacecraft is. And I realized that as it got larger, it was actually the sun coming up over the curvature of the earth. And I was watching my first sunrise

5 (5m 26s):
And went on to spend 204 days on the iss surrounded by the cold, dark vacuum of space.

14 (5m 32s):
The walls of the space station are very thin, which is pretty surprising. You know when you first get up there you're like, oh gosh, I don't wanna accidentally punch a hole through the wall. It's not really gonna happen. But these are the thoughts that cross your mind when you first get

5 (5m 44s):
There. And it didn't take long to notice the types of dangers those walls couldn't keep out. For one thing, there's the ionizing radiation, these tiny fast moving particles ejected from the sun or from distant supernova explosions.

14 (5m 58s):
Just think about like if little atoms became bullets.

5 (6m 2s):
Many of these subatomic particles shoot right through the walls of the space station.

14 (6m 6s):
When we shut our eyes at night up on Space Station, you can see what actually looks like a shooting star go by your eyes if you get hit by a piece of radiation.

5 (6m 13s):
It's not totally clear how this happens, but one theory is that these particles could be hitting astronauts retinas and making the rods and cones fire, which would lead them to see a flash of light that isn't really there.

14 (6m 25s):
And the first time you see it, you're like, wow. Cuz we, we hear about radiation on the ground and then we go, oh man, this light really fast. Adam moving through my head probably is not great for my body.

5 (6m 39s):
On top of the radiation, there's the issue of gravity.

14 (6m 42s):
Gravity's an incredibly strong force. Well, when it leaves your body, your fluids shift up.

5 (6m 49s):
Your body is designed to constantly pump blood up from your feet, which makes sense as long as gravity is pushing down. It's

14 (6m 56s):
Like when you pick up the empty can of Coke that you think is full and you kind of go, whoa. And you pick it up real fast.

5 (7m 1s):
And microgravity changes the pressure around astronauts, eyeballs.

14 (7m 5s):
Some people experience a change in eyesight cuz you think about maybe there's a little more pressure on the back of your eyeballs. So instead of being shaped like almonds, they get to be a little more round.

5 (7m 13s):
Bone density is a problem too.

14 (7m 15s):
That's why now when you see astronauts on the space station, you see us lifting weights.

5 (7m 19s):
And because her spine wasn't constantly being compressed by gravity, the space between Anne's vertebrae actually expanded.

14 (7m 27s):
I grew just under two inches in space,

5 (7m 29s):
Which was okay except for her pants.

14 (7m 32s):
I got up there and I put on the pair of pants and I thought, why did I choose these ones? They only go down to my ankles

5 (7m 39s):
Until she came back to earth.

14 (7m 41s):
I shrunk right back down in a couple of painful days.

5 (7m 44s):
And finally, there's just the fact of being in space confined to this tiny box for a long time.

14 (7m 51s):
We do talk a little bit about space fog that just kinda makes you less likely to think quickly through things.

5 (7m 57s):
NASA itself acknowledges that the psychological impact from isolation is one of the most dangerous unknowns of long term space missions.

14 (8m 5s):
I mean, there was definitely days where I just, I felt like I never woke up, like I felt like I was half asleep all day long.

5 (8m 11s):
And for lots of astronauts, these changes like cognitive troubles, bone problems, vision issues, they can last even after they get back to earth. But this is all just what space does to people in low earth orbit. Things get significantly more difficult as astronauts get further from earth. Take radiation, for example, because the ISS is so close to earth, it's actually shielded from most cosmic radiation by earth's magnetic field. So even though there's enough radiation on the ISS to see these flashes, it gets way worse further out.

8 (8m 47s):
I've got a series of random lines that are moving like a flashing horizon with thunderstorms on the horizon.

5 (8m 58s):
Apollo astronauts have reported tons of these flashes.

8 (9m 1s):
Oh man, there's a good one. A left eye right in the middle. It starts out as a semicircle and then folds into a a point like on a pencil, and then it disappears.

5 (9m 11s):
Only 24 people have spent even a brief time exposed to this kind of radiation. And just from this limited sample, there's reason to worry. According to a 2016 study, these astronauts were four to five times more likely to die from heart disease than astronauts who stayed close to earth just from being outside earth's magnetic field for less than two weeks, which is why Artemis has an experiment to test long-term impacts

15 (9m 36s):
Is gonna be the first biological mission into deep space in many years. And the first most satellite current biology to deep space ever

5 (9m 45s):
Sat. Santa Maria is the lead scientist for Bio Sentinel, an experiment on Artemis one that's testing the long-term effects of radiation far from earth. It's not gonna have people, but it will have something surprisingly close.

15 (9m 59s):
So yeast happens to be very similar to humans on how they respond to radiation.

5 (10m 6s):
Radiation can damage cell parts, even dna. So to see what this looks like in deep space, bio Sentinel is gonna be launched from Artemis Rocket into an orbit around the sun,

15 (10m 16s):
Get information on how fast they grow. And we'll be doing these experiments over six months so we can get more information of what the effects are coming from Galactosemic radiation, for example,

5 (10m 27s):
Satio has exposed yeast to radiation on earth using particle accelerators. And he's found that it has a slower rate of growth. But that's just for something as simple as yeast. There's so much we don't know about what cosmic radiation can do to humans over a long time.

15 (10m 42s):
It can do a lot of things, you know, potentially increasing cancer effects. And in other organisms like bacteria, it can produce mutations that make them even better or worse. You know, they can become more pathogenic. Even we, it's a random process. It doesn't hit something in particular. You can produce mutations everywhere.

5 (11m 1s):
So the area outside Earth's magnetic field clearly poses some serious problems. But with Artemis, NASA's not planning to stop there. They're planning to go way further out, eventually building a permanent moon base science writer, Rebecca Boyle says that astronauts will hopefully spend several months at a time there, which will let them do two main things. One, they'll learn how to survive in an extreme environment, prepping NASA for a mission to Mars.

9 (11m 27s):
And eventually people would just live there permanently rotating in and out like the way we do on Antarctica or on the Space station.

5 (11m 34s):
And two, they'll be near valuable resources on the moon, including water, ice in its south Pole.

9 (11m 40s):
In theory, you could get that water and it could be used for rocket fuel.

5 (11m 44s):
If NASA can extract oxygen from this water, ice, the moon can basically be a gas station for future missions to Mars. But despite all this, this potential, the moon isn't exactly a welcoming place for starters. Even though the pull of gravity is stronger on the moon than it is on the iss, it's still six times weaker than it is on earth.

9 (12m 5s):
And turns out that's just at the threshold where it really starts to mess up your perception. People get kind of dizzy. There's actually a lot of videos of astronauts falling down on the moon.

16 (12m 17s):
I fell down

9 (12m 18s):
Just like falling on their face.

16 (12m 21s):
I just got my first initiation to getting very dirty. You sure did.

9 (12m 27s):
They're just totally disoriented like your vestibular system just can't kind of figure out where you are in space.

16 (12m 34s):
Yeah, I look like an elephant stuff around here.

5 (12m 36s):
On top of the weaker pull of gravity, astronauts who live on the moon will also have to deal with lunar night.

9 (12m 42s):
That's another thing that makes the moon really unpleasant.

5 (12m 45s):
Any spot on the moon has two weeks per month where it faces away from the sun, which leads to some ridiculously cold temperatures.

9 (12m 52s):
There's no atmosphere, there's no pressure, there's no, you know, warm sun or clouds overhead. It's really difficult for basic technology to survive that, let alone humans.

5 (13m 3s):
And then there's a danger that may be even scarier than radiation, weak gravity or the freezing cold moon dust.

9 (13m 12s):
So because there's no atmosphere to speak of, any dust that's moving around because of a spacecraft arriving or leaving is gonna fly around like a scouring pad.

5 (13m 21s):
Apollo astronauts dealt with moon dust constantly,

16 (13m 24s):
And I got so much dust over my visor already, I gotta wipe it off.

9 (13m 27s):
There's kind a constant stream of microm meteoroids hitting the moon, and that kicks up a bunch of dust,

16 (13m 35s):
I'll tell you, pure, as easy to get dusty. But that's nothing do to anybody.

9 (13m 38s):
Some of it goes fast enough that it goes into orbit essentially, and there's no air to absorb any of those particles or slow them down.

16 (13m 46s):
Well, you're gonna have to, after

5 (13m 49s):
I listen back to the tape from Apollo 17, the last mission to the moon, and honestly barely a few minutes went by without the two astronauts worrying about the dust.

16 (13m 59s):
Dust.

5 (14m 2s):
But the moon doesn't have wind or waves like earth does to make that dust softer.

9 (14m 7s):
Every piece of moon dust is jagged and sharp. So it's just flying like bullets all over the place.

5 (14m 14s):
The dust would stick to astronauts suits

16 (14m 17s):
Flat dust. Once you get on there, you might as well forget

5 (14m 19s):
It. And then when they went inside the landing capsule, it just went everywhere.

16 (14m 23s):
Dust, dust, dust.

9 (14m 25s):
So there's no avoiding breathing it in

16 (14m 28s):
Really.

9 (14m 29s):
And they all complained bitterly about it and it hurt their throats and it gave them a like a feeling, like a head cold like you were congested because there's so much crap you're breathing in.

16 (14m 38s):
I have never seen so much dust in my whole life, ever.

5 (14m 42s):
One of the astronauts actually got sick from all of

16 (14m 44s):
It. It's didn't know.

5 (14m 51s):
In a post-flight debriefing astronaut Gene Ser said, I think dust is probably one of our greatest inhibitors to a nominal operation on the moon. I think we can overcome other physiological or physical or mechanical problems except dust.

17 (15m 7s):
Man, I hate this dust.

5 (15m 9s):
That was his biggest worry after spending just a few days on the moon dealing with moon dust. All of these issues can pose acute problems, but long term exposure is a whole different ballgame. Take moon dust, for example. We know what made astronauts sick on the moon, but studies have shown that longer exposure could lead to a higher risk of serious diseases like cancer down the line. So when you add that to the higher chance of dying from heart disease, from cosmic radiation, it might just be that spending a long time in deep space can't be perfectly safe. There's a real chance it can shorten your life, but even if living in space is always gonna be dangerous, NASA isn't gonna wait till the long-term risks are zero, which they're fully open about with astronauts like Anne.

14 (15m 57s):
I understand cognitively the dangers, but I can't say no, it's, it's this passion that I just, I want to explore.

5 (16m 3s):
Rebecca says certain technologies could make long-term survival less risky. Like NASA is researching drugs that could mitigate the effect of weak gravity, their ideas to make space suits out of a type of plastic that would absorb more cosmic radiation. And when it comes to moon dust, NASA's experimenting with a kind of slick coating on space suits to keep it off. But there's one interesting solution that could potentially solve a bunch of these problems at once.

9 (16m 29s):
There are actually some caves on the moon that are caused by lava flows that collapsed. And so in theory, like you could go under these domed kind of cave areas and burrow underneath the lunar soil,

5 (16m 44s):
A lunar base inside a cave would be able to stay warmer during lunar night and it would be shielded from the constant stream of moon dust.

9 (16m 52s):
It also shielded from cosmic rays and solar rays. If you're in a cave, like you're protected from being bombarded by any kind of micro meteoroids or radiation.

5 (17m 1s):
And this isn't as farfetched as it sounds. Just this past July, NASA found a series of deep pits or moon caves that hover at a constant temperature of 63 degrees Fahrenheit, which means there's a real possibility that the first permanent settlers on the moon could be cavemen. You know, go back to what worked for humans the first time around.

9 (17m 20s):
Yeah, that's true. Go back to the caves and make their own art. And people in the future can talk about what they meant when they drew their rovers instead of bulls.

5 (17m 31s):
It's a fantastic thing to imagine a moon based and a lunar cave, a mining operation at work in the background, extracting material to power deep space rockets, an orbiting lunar space station, serving as a staging point for these missions. And a rocket heading out toward Mars, slowly transforming into one of many tiny lights as it gets further and further away. But at the end of the day, it's also worth asking why, given that we still only know just a tiny sliver of the risks of being far from earth for a long period of time, is all of this worth it? Why do we want humans to be living in space to begin with?

9 (18m 12s):
I mean, that's kind of the million dollar question for a lot of these programs is what's the point?

5 (18m 17s):
The million dollar answer after the break

13 (18m 28s):
Support

0 (18m 29s):
For the show today comes from click up. What would you do if you had an extra day every week? I would try and jump in some water, not like a public pool, which DC does well, but a naturally occurring body of water that isn't totally polluted. If anyone knows where the good ones of those are at in the DC area, let me know. Click up wants to get you that extra day by saving you all the time that you spend clicking between different platforms and apps and docs and spreadsheets. So you know that they're saying might just be like a whole day every week that you spend wasting and, and they can save you that time by putting all your stuff into one place for you.

0 (19m 15s):
And your team listeners can use the code explained to get 15% off. Click up, massive unlimited plan for a year, meaning you can start saving time for under $5 a month. You can sign up today@clickup.com and use the code explained the offer ends soon.

20 (19m 37s):
Hey, you've got all kinds of people yelling at you about sales Black Friday and Cyber Week these days. So I'll keep this short. Get the lowest prices of the season on an annual subscription to New York Magazine now through November 30th. Prices start at $8 for a monthly digital subscription and top out at $45 for a year of print and digital access. Give yourself the gift of Vulture, the Cut, Intelligencer, and all your favorite New York magazine brands for up to 75% off until the end of the month. Go to n y mag.com/holiday by November 30th and you'll get the best deal of the year.

5 (20m 31s):
With the Artem is program. NASA's entering into a new era of space exploration. Artemis one is carrying scientific experiments. Artemis two is gonna take humans around the moon and back. And Artemis three in 2025 will hopefully put the first humans back on the moon in over 50 years after that. They're hoping to build a permanent moon base that'll teach us about living in space, long term, far from earth, and ultimately prepare us for a mission to Mars. But that all raises a question. If this is really about space exploration, why should we be sending humans into deep space at all? Why not just keep sending rovers to start?

5 (21m 11s):
There are some clear geopolitical reasons. China and Russia are planning to build a joint permanent moon base by 2036. So it may just be as simple as being first, but NASA astrophysicist Jonathan J living off world is more urgent. Something that isn't as much a choice as it is a necessity.

21 (21m 31s):
I think any life like to spread, you know? And so for the long term survival, you need to move. If you stay one place, you are not going to survive long.

5 (21m 40s):
For all we know earth could be the only planet in the universe with life.

21 (21m 44s):
Suppose we are alone and we are precious. If we are destroyed, it means the life in the universe was done.

5 (21m 52s):
And it's not like this kind of destruction is so hard to imagine. There's a long list of apocalyptic events that could destroy us. Asteroids, pandemics, climate change, global nuclear war.

21 (22m 4s):
People will say, ah, it's not going to happen. But you check the dom stays clock website, the chances have a global nuclear wall. Right now it's not zero.

5 (22m 12s):
And when you start looking at longer and longer timeframes, this kind of destruction starts becoming more plausible.

21 (22m 19s):
Suppose you buy a lottery ticket, the chances to win the lottery ticket is very low, but you buy a lottery ticket every day for millions of years, you're going to win.

5 (22m 28s):
And zooming out even further, Jonathan says that it'll eventually be necessary to move way further out than just Mars because the sun isn't gonna be around forever.

21 (22m 38s):
If we want to have a future for the humanities, even if our sun is dead, we got to become multi explanatory species

5 (22m 48s):
To even think about the dangers of that far, far future. We need to survive long enough to make it there. For Jonathan, the best way to ensure the existence of humanity is to start learning how to live far from earth right now, no matter how difficult it might be. But not everyone wants to think billions of years into the future.

9 (23m 9s):
I don't wanna give up that easily on earth. You know, this is the planet that we evolved on,

5 (23m 14s):
Science writer, Rebecca Boyle. Again,

9 (23m 17s):
We have one home. And I think it's a little sad to imagine that like, well, it's too late, this place sucks now cuz we messed up. We gotta go somewhere else

5 (23m 26s):
And look, something terrible really could happen to earth. But Mars is pretty apocalyptic right now. It's already kind of like what earth might end up being after some sort of catastrophic event. So yeah, eventually like very, very eventually we're gonna have to leave Earth to survive. But it's not exactly the greatest justification for a mission to Mars right now, or even in 2040. Still. There are other compelling reasons to learn to live far from earth.

9 (23m 58s):
It's a difficult place to go. It's a difficult place to be. It's requires a lot of energy and and risk, both in terms of life and capital to do that at all.

5 (24m 9s):
Tackling the dangers of space leads to innovation. New technologies, from phone cameras to wireless headphones to athletic shoes. They've all got their roots in the Apollo program. Plus studying these extreme environments can really help people on earth.

9 (24m 25s):
A lot of research on things like bone density loss and microgravity has a lot of impact for people with bone density issues on earth like osteoporosis.

5 (24m 34s):
And finally, when it comes to science, there's certain things that people can do that rovers just can't. To

14 (24m 41s):
Me it's the concept of kind of the known unknowns and the unknown unknowns.

5 (24m 45s):
Astronaut and McLean, again,

14 (24m 47s):
Rovers and unmanned ariel vehicles. Those are very good for answering questions that we know what the question is. We know where we wanna look, we know what we wanna look for. But when you put a person in a situation, they have the ability to look off to the side and go, Hey, what was that? What just caught my eye? Why does that look different right there?

5 (25m 7s):
This exact thing actually happened on Apollo 15 when astronauts were looking for lunar rocks. Scientists had speculated that finding this specific kind of rock called basalt would indicate volcanic activity.

14 (25m 19s):
And Houston had put together where they thought they were gonna find these rocks and they had done this whole mission and they were going back.

5 (25m 24s):
But then one of the astronauts noticed something off the planned route.

14 (25m 28s):
Outta the corner of his eyes, he sees what he knows to be a Baal rock.

16 (25m 32s):
Oh man, let's just hold on one second.

14 (25m 37s):
And he said, we've gotta go get that.

5 (25m 39s):
But NASA had already told them to end the mission and he knew they wouldn't give him extra time to go check out the rock.

14 (25m 45s):
And so they said, okay, let's just tell him our seatbelt's broken so that we have to stop and adjust it.

16 (25m 50s):
Get my seatbelt, Roger, mark, can't you stops coming on? Why don't you hand me your seatbelt?

14 (25m 57s):
And he gets out the ro and he runs over and he picks up this rock. Well, the other astronauts like, I don't want Houston to ask us any questions, so I'm just gonna talk. And so you just hear him go, Houston, I just wanna paint this picture for you.

16 (26m 8s):
Actually, these small fresh craters that we've commented

14 (26m 11s):
On. It's just a beautiful landscape,

16 (26m 13s):
Just a concentration of

14 (26m 15s):
Rocks. And he just kept on talking so that he go pick up the rock.

16 (26m 18s):
Oh, I'm talking about maybe a foot, three feet diameter.

14 (26m 23s):
That rock was very, very scientifically interesting.

5 (26m 26s):
This rock became known as the seatbelt basalt. And along with other samples, it pointed to the fact that the moon once had volcanic activity, the same activity that shaped the caves that could house a potential moon base. And an says that this rock is the type of thing that only humans would likely be able to find.

14 (26m 44s):
But if we had relied on ros, we would never have it.

5 (26m 49s):
So given all of this, the compelling reasons to send humans to space for long periods of time, weighed against the very real risks to health and human survival, most of which are honestly pretty much unknown. I wanted to ask the people I spoke to, if they would take part in this new era of living in space. Some people like Jonathan, are so dedicated to this idea of a multi-planetary future that they'd be willing to make a permanent move.

21 (27m 16s):
I think many people like me, we are not afraid of even death. We were like to explore, to find something new.

5 (27m 23s):
Jonathan told me that if his daughter was up for the trip to, he'd actually sign up for a one-way ticket to Mars.

21 (27m 28s):
If there's an opportunity to go to a completely new place, I start something new, I die there. It's fine with me.

5 (27m 36s):
Other people like Anne were less to the idea.

14 (27m 39s):
It is all about responsible exploration. And for me personally and the team at nasa, responsible exploration means that it's a two-way ticket.

5 (27m 48s):
I also checked in with Scott Kelly, who until recently held the American record for the longest space mission at 340 days.

22 (27m 55s):
I do stupid things sometimes.

5 (27m 57s):
Scott said he'd be willing to go back, but not if it were permanent.

22 (28m 0s):
I understand that there are people out there, most of them have probably never spent any time in space that say they would be okay with living the rest of their lives on the surface of Mars in some kind of habitat. I am not one of those people, but I would watch that reality show, cuz I think after a couple of years it'd get pretty interesting.

5 (28m 24s):
We're kind of interesting.

22 (28m 25s):
Have ever read the book, the Lord of the Flies?

5 (28m 28s):
Sure,

22 (28m 30s):
Probably that kind of interesting.

5 (28m 32s):
But for other people, the idea of going on any kinda long-term mission outside low earth orbit is just too risky. Even for Saido, who's intimately involved with Artemis Scientific experiments,

15 (28m 44s):
It's not just the radiation, it's not just the microgravity, right? It's the the isolation. It's awesome, the idea of going, but for a long term mission, probably not. Yeah, no, I'm not looking forward to that myself.

5 (28m 56s):
Even Rebecca, who spent her career writing about the moon, who knows everything there is to know about it, she's not sure that given all the risks, she'd actually wanna spend time there.

9 (29m 6s):
I think I would do it if I could be promised that I would be safe. But as we've been talking about, that's not a promise anybody can make. And so I don't think I would do it as much as I would love that. And to see the curvature of the earth, which I spent so much time imagining and trying to write about and trying to recreate for people. I don't think if it came down to it that I would actually strap myself into a rocket to have that experience.

5 (29m 33s):
It's easy to compare space exploration with the history of migration and exploration on earth. You know, we're born to explore that. Life always expands that Mars is just the next logical step on our journey toward this future Star Trek universe. But it's also worth remembering just how risky a proposition this all is and the humans that are involved. This isn't just migration or exploration. This is learning to live in an environment that's actively trying to kill us in a whole bunch of different ways all the time, most of which we don't really understand yet.

9 (30m 8s):
Sometimes we need to ground ourselves and the reality that we have this planet that gave birth to us all. And I think we should remember that. You know, we have a lot to still save here and that we're made for it. And you know, keeping both of those things in mind keeps us a little bit more feet on the ground, even as we look to the heavens.

23 (30m 43s):
This episode was reported and produced by Noam Hassenfeld. It was edited by Katherine Wells, Brian Resnick, and Meredith Hah. Music from Noam Mixing and Sound designed from Christian Ayala. Fact checking from Zoe Malik and production help from Bert Pinkerton, Mandy W and me Neil Dia. Also, just a quick update. Byrd was looking at that octopus key she found in the woods, and she realized she'd actually seen that same octopus description on a small plaque near her house. She knows she has to go back. Rebecca Boyle's book isn't out yet, but it's got a name. It's called Walking with the Moon, uncovering the Secret in Holes to our Past and our Future.

23 (31m 25s):
You won't wanna miss it. Special thanks to Chris Langhart, Anna Schneider and Rachel Hoover for their help this week. If you have thoughts about this episode or ideas for the show, please email us. We're unexplainable@vox.com. We'd also love it if you love to review or reading. Unexplainable is part of the Vox Media Podcast network. We're off next week, but we'll be back in your feed on November 30th.