0 (1s):
In a photo taken a few hours ago at the NATO Summit in Vilna, Lithuania, leaders of the Western world stand together on a stage Ukraine's President Vladimir Zelensky is not in that picture. He'd really like to be, but NATO has not invited Ukraine to join yet. Zelensky is on his way to the summit anyway. He tweeted today that it is unprecedented and absurd that Ukraine hasn't been given a timeline for when it may be able to join NATO. And he ended saying this uncertainty is weakness and I will openly discuss this at the summit. Even without the vow of verbal confrontation, all eyes were gonna be on Zelensky. Russia's invasion of his country is forcing the NATO alliance over the next two days to confront how far it's going to go to help Ukraine some things immediate membership are off the table.

0 (48s):
Others including a catastrophically dangerous weapon, are suddenly in play. That's all ahead on today, explained

3 (60s):
On criminal We bring you true crime stories told by people who know them best.

4 (1m 6s):
We didn't believe in setting fires cuz that was too dangerous. We were, you know, kinder, gentler kind of crooks so to speak.

3 (1m 14s):
So, the best plan you had was that you'd LaSow it.

5 (1m 17s):
Yes. Never imagined I'd use it for a camel.

3 (1m 21s):
I'm Phoebe judge and this is criminal Did. you have to say what was in the box.

6 (1m 27s):
Phoebe We told lies

3 (1m 29s):
Listen to criminal every week, wherever you get your podcasts,

0 (1m 44s):
It's today explained. Felicia Schwartz is the US Foreign Affairs and Defense correspondent for the Financial Times and I reached her in Lithuania. I

7 (1m 54s):
Am in Viness here to cover the NATO summit this week.

0 (1m 57s):
What's your impression of Viez?

7 (1m 59s):
Well it's very sleepy right now because it seems like they've closed off a lot of the roads ahead of Biden's arrival. I am seeing lots of Ukrainian NATO and Lithuanian flags. Saw some posters with a big middle finger to Putin and the F bomb, which I'm guessing this is a family show so I won't curse, but there's a lot of pro Ukrainian sentiment here.

0 (2m 24s):
The 31 members of NATO meet once a year to discuss policy priorities, spending commitments. Typically it's not anything that's very exciting but,

7 (2m 33s):
But of course, you know, since Russia invaded Ukraine in 2022, these summits have taken on a different tone because we've got war in Europe for the first time this century or what insert whatever superlative you'd like here. So this year there are two big questions hovering over this meeting. One is, what kind of language will the alliances offer to Ukraine on membership, which is its aspiration and Ukraine sees as a critical need to deter and defend against Russia and then separately.

7 (3m 15s):
But relatedly, what will be the fate of Sweden's bid to enter the alliance? The

0 (3m 21s):
Fate of Sweden's bid to enter the alliance became clearer after we talked to Felicia yesterday, Turkey, which had been standing in the way back down at the last minute, which all but ensures Sweden's entrance into NATO and so the focus again turns back to Ukraine.

7 (3m 37s):
I think there's quite a big debate among the allies. No one is saying that Ukraine will join this week. It's generally NATO's policy that a country with an active conflict wouldn't join. So the debate is really more about what kind of language assurances, guarantees pathway is one word that some want to use and others don't. But what can the alliance offer to Ukraine in a nod to its aspirations for membership

0 (4m 6s):
And the reason that a country at war generally can't join NATO is because if it did, all of the members of NATO would have to go to war alongside it. Is that right?

7 (4m 16s):
Yeah, pretty much. Article five of the NATO charter stipulates that all of the members will come to the defense of each other if one is invaded. So the second you would admit a country at war like Ukraine and to the alliance that would sort of automatically draw in all 31 other countries into this conflict. And President Biden all along has been very clear that you know, the number one goal for the US is not to draw the US and NATO by extension into war with Russia.

8 (4m 52s):
We will not fight a war against Russia in Ukraine direct confrontation between NATO and Russia Is World War III something we must strive to prevent?

0 (5m 5s):
Ukraine has wanted to be part of NATO for a long time, even before this war started. So it's not just about getting allies who can help us fight. Why does Ukraine want to be in NATO so badly?

7 (5m 16s):
Well basically Ukraine when it gave up its nuclear weapons as part of the fall of the Soviet Union, there was a Budapest memorandum where basically the US and other allies agreed to protect Ukraine security but without nuclear weapons they feel like they've had no deterrent from Russia.

9 (5m 34s):
The US the UK and Russia were at the heart of these talks convincing Ukraine to return the nukes to Russia. And in 1994, those four countries signed what is now known as the Budapest memorandum. They promised that none of those nations would use force or threats against Ukraine and they promised to respect their sovereignty and existing borders.

7 (6m 2s):
So joining NATO means, you know, coming under the cover of the nuclear umbrella of the US and its allies, they point to what happened in 20 14, 1 Russian invade Crimea And of course the full scale invasion in 2022 that you know, just empty promises from the US and other powers are not enough to fend off Russia and Russian president Vladimir Putin has made it very clear that he doesn't think that Ukraine is a real country. I think that the best kind of analysis from the US Intelligence services and Allied Intelligence Services is that Putin saw real opportunity to take advantage of what he saw as a weak landscape to go in and he didn't think that the world would put up too much of a fuss that he could wait the world out.

7 (6m 48s):
And so for Ukraine, they really feel like the kind of joint protection of this massive alliance is all that will really fend Putin off and Russia off whoever controls Russia.

11 (7m 5s):
We understand that while the war is ongoing, we can't become a member of NATO. However we need to be sure that after the war we will become a member. That's the signal we want to get that after the war, Ukraine will become a NATO member.

0 (7m 21s):
Let's take us back again before the war because obviously right now there is a very good reason why NATO member states would not want to let Ukraine in. Nobody wants to join Ukraine in this war. Before the war started, how did NATO member states feel about letting Ukraine in?

7 (7m 37s):
So NATO has an open door policy, which means if all of the members consent then any country can join. I think that when the US and its allies picked up on the fact that Russia is gonna invade the US and others tried to enter talks with Russia trying to allay some of Russia's fears about Ukraine's NATO aspirations. So this has been always a red line to Russia that the West has understood. And while there are plenty who want to see Ukraine and NATO, eventually there was some openness to talking about this. But also putting that aside, there are, when I talk to American and European officials about this and NATO officials, they say there are, and Biden actually said this in a CNN interview pretty strongly that he gave over the weekend there are democratic and good governance and standards and and things that need to happen before any country could enter NATO.

7 (8m 28s):
And I think there's a feeling that Ukraine is Not yet there

8 (8m 31s):
NATO is a process that takes some time to meet all the qualifications and from democratization to a whole range of other issues.

7 (8m 40s):
He basically said when he was asked over the weekends about does he wanna see Ukraine join NATO, he pointed to basically reforms that any country in Ukraine in particular would need to make to enter the alliance. This is basically instituting good governance, making sure that it's a democracy that operates in accordance with kind of international standards. But basically the subtext there is that the US and its allies don't wanna let in an another like Orban or Erdogan or a Turkey or a hungry that plays spoiler in the alliance and that isn't really a democracy that's functioning well.

7 (9m 21s):
So basically they want to see Ukraine make some reforms, which Ukraine is certainly like working on doing and says they're committed to doing.

12 (9m 30s):
We are now a country that is respected, a country that is really fighting for human values, for human rights, for freedom, for democracy. And everyone has already understood that it is exactly such a country.

7 (9m 47s):
But I think for the US and for its partners, it's hard to talk about NATO membership for a country where it's really very uncertain at this point when the war will end and what that end will look like and who will be in power. Certainly Zelensky has a lot of support and, and he's a heroic and iconic figure who is really beloved by the west. But I think that there is also Biden and and his partners and those in government and those that he talks to like understand that it's gonna be probably a long road to admit a country that's under the current circumstances.

0 (10m 21s):
How likely is it Felicia, that Ukraine will be admitted to NATO?

7 (10m 26s):
I guess it depends on the time horizon. If your question is how likely is it, will Ukraine be admitted this week? I would say the chance is zero. How likely is it that Ukraine will be admitted ever? I think it's not impossible. I think it will take some time. I think what we are covering this week and looking to see is what kind of agreement can the 31 members of NATO come to on some sort of language that is satisfying for Ukraine's future aspirations but also gets at these concerns that countries like the US and Germany and others have about, on the one hand not letting in any member that's not ready, but also not creating any sort of glide path that might create Article five requirements for the alliance that they're not really interested in pursuing.

7 (11m 24s):
I cover the US so I, I'm thinking about their view, but that's not the only view in the alliance. I think what we will see and what we've been reporting on is Biden and also Macron and others have talked about these Israeli style security commitments for Ukraine the

8 (11m 38s):
United States would be ready to provide while the process was going on. And it's gonna take a while, while that process was going on to provide security Allah, the security we provide for you, for Israel providing the weaponry the need, the capacity to defend themselves if there is an agreement, if there is a ceasefire, if there is a peace agreement.

7 (12m 1s):
I think we will see that the US and its allies are working on pledging some sort of commitment for Ukraine to at least maintain like sufficient military capabilities to deter and defend against Russia for the long term. There'll probably be a bunch of bilateral pledges of different dollar amounts and longer term commitments that signal to Putin and to Russia and to anyone who has doubts that the west is here for the long haul and and they're committed to making sure that Ukraine has what it needs to defend itself self.

0 (12m 38s):
That was Felicia Schwartz of the Financial Times. One of the ways in which the US is making sure Ukraine has what it needs to defend itself is by sending a type of weapon called a cluster munition or a cluster bomb. The US just agreed to this about a week ago, And, it has horrified even some countries that are allies of both the US and Ukraine. After the break we're gonna explain why and we're gonna hear from a Reporter who's seen up close, what makes cluster munition so dangerous and why so many countries have outright banned them.

0 (13m 6s):
Him

Mint Mobile (13m 31s):
Support for the show day comes from Mint mobile. Is that the Ryan Reynolds thing? you know those brands who work super hard to make shopping and experience the ones with big, beautiful stores and pristine window displays. While those storefronts cost a lot of money to operate and Mint Mobile thinks that you shouldn't have to pay for that Mint Mobile's wireless plan started just $15 a month and they keep prices down by staying online only and eliminating the traditional cost of retail. All plans come with the unlimited talk and text and high speed data delivered on the nation's largest 5G network. Cool family plans start just two people. You can use your own phone with any Mint mobile plan and keep your same phone number along with your existing contacts. Okay. To get your new wireless plan for just 15 bucks a month and get the plan shipped to your door for free, cool. You can go to mint mobile.com/explained. That's mint mobile.com/explained. You can cut your wildest bill to 15 bucks a month at mint mobile.com/explained.

0 (14m 28s):
Thanks, Ryan Reynolds.

14 (14m 33s):
Hello, I'm Mr. Perel. I'm a psychotherapist and host of the podcast. Where should we begin? Relationships expectations are at an all time high and yet the norms are less and less clear and we are literally making up the new norms as we go. Whether it's your work, relationships, friendships, or romantic relationships. I invite you to enter into my office and listen in on my sessions where I help people explore the challenges and choices in their relationships. You will listen intensely to them, but you will actually see yourselves and in the process you become unstuck and empowered in your own relationships.

14 (15m 21s):
Join me in my office every Monday morning for a new episode, listen and follow. Where should we begin on your favorite podcast app?

0 (15m 35s):
Matt, go ahead and start by giving me your full name and tell me what you do.

15 (15m 39s):
My name's Matthew Akins and I'm a contributing writer at the New York Times Magazine and a fellow at Type media Center. And I'm the author of a book called The Naked Don't Fear the Water, an Underground Journey with Afghan refugees.

0 (15m 51s):
Matthew Akins covers conflict and in the course of his coverage of conflict, he's reported from Yemen on exactly what cluster munitions do, not just to combatants on a battlefield, but also to civilians. So

15 (16m 4s):
A cluster munition is basically a container, a casing And. it contains dozens or or or more than a hundred little bombs inside of it. And so this is either dropped from a plane or fired from an artillery gun And it bursts open in the air and then spreads this reign of explosives over a wide area below. So if you were targeted by one of these, you'd basically have explosives raining down on you.

0 (16m 33s):
How long have cluster bombs been used on the battlefield?

15 (16m 36s):
Well, they were used in World War ii. They've been used in, in many conflicts since then. The US used them during the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq and although that was the last time the US military used them weapons that the US has made and then transferred to allies have been used on the battlefield since then. Why

0 (16m 56s):
Did the US stop using them? Well, these

15 (16m 59s):
Weapons are very controversial and the reason is that these little bombs that rain from them don't always explode. They lie in the ground and they almost become like landmines and as a result they can quite easily injure, kill civilians. Sometimes for years or even decades after the conflict has ended, cluster

16 (17m 16s):
Bombs have gained a reputation for killing and injuring civilians, especially children who come across the smaller explosives or bomblets that fail to initially detonate after being dropped

15 (17m 29s):
Because there's so many of these little bomblets as they're called within a cluster bomb, inevitably some of them are going to go off even if you have a low failure rate. So

17 (17m 37s):
At one point the failure rate was about 20%, then it was 6%. But we understand now it's according to the US it's 2%, but we don't know the evidence for that.

15 (17m 47s):
So because of the danger they po to innocent people. These weapons are very controversial and a lot of countries have banned them outright.

0 (17m 54s):
How many countries have banned them? You

15 (17m 56s):
Have 123 countries that have signed up to this convention against cluster bombs, but the US is not among them. So the US reserves the right to use them though they don't currently, which again is controversial because a lot of people think these weapons should not be used and it's, it's a bad example for the US not to be part of this treaty. And in this case, they're now transferring these weapons to Ukraine.

0 (18m 22s):
When you were reporting in Yemen, tell me what you saw and who you talked to.

15 (18m 26s):
I went to Yemen in 2015 when the country was being bombed by the Saudi led coalition and we went to Northern Yemen, which had been basically declared a military free fire zone by the Saudis.

18 (18m 38s):
So we're here at Saada City, which is the capital of Saada governor in Northern Yemen. It's the stronghold of Anala, better known as the Houthis And. It's been a scene of intense border warfare between Anala and Saudi Arabia.

15 (18m 53s):
And we documented these US made cluster bombs being used against civilian targets. Saudi Arabia

18 (19m 0s):
Declared the entire governor to be a military zone and that anything inside of it, you know, including the almost a million people who lived here, was now a valid military target, which I guess would include us

15 (19m 12s):
Because cluster bombs, they hit a wide area. They're also likely to harm civilians who are in the area. So they're not very easy to target, they're not really precision weapons in that sense. So

18 (19m 23s):
This is a sight of a strike on a gas station. So what happened was, in the afternoon a bomb hit this gas station and there were obviously a bunch of cars and people queued up for gasoline. They say that 19 people were killed, but only eight of them were recognizable because their bodies had been so badly burned.

15 (19m 43s):
And so we saw schools and mosques, villages, gas stations targeted and witnessed, you know, the firsthand the toll of these. We saw people, children coming in, missing limbs dead.

18 (20m 0s):
There were 51 people killed, 37 of them according to a list that they showed me were women and children. What happened was that there was a strike on one of these houses here in the afternoon, and then as people were gathering to try to rescue and dig people outta the rubble, more bombs or rockets came in and killed the rescuers. And then they were basically afraid to go in and and dig people

15 (20m 23s):
Out. So these are devastatingly effective weapons. That's why Ukraine wants them. That's why the US wants to give it to them, but they can cause enormous harm to civilians. There

18 (20m 32s):
Are civilians still living here, but they're mostly shepherds who have flocks to tend, and there's a Saudi jet in the sky right now that we can hear circling around. So there's airstrikes ongoing right now

0 (20m 48s):
When the United States has asked, why are you sending these to Ukraine? You, the US haven't used them in 20 years when you use them in Afghanistan. There was a huge outcry. A hundred plus countries have banned them. What does the US say?

15 (21m 3s):
Well, the US says that Ukraine is running out of artillery shells. So the cluster munitions are being sent, are actually artillery and the west isn't producing artillery shells as fast as the Ukrainians are using them. This

8 (21m 17s):
Is a war relating to munitions and they're running out of those that ammunition and we're low on

15 (21m 24s):
It. So there is a need in this battle, which is very much a battle that's using artillery on both sides for more arms. And that's why the US says that they need to transfer this weaponry.

19 (21m 36s):
We recognize that cluster munitions create a risk of civilian harm from unexploded ordinance. This is why we've the defer deferred the decision for as long as we could. But there is also a massive risk of civilian harm if Russian troops and tanks roll over Ukrainian positions and take more Ukrainian territory and subjugate more Ukrainian civilians because Ukraine does not have enough artillery that is intolerable to us.

0 (22m 2s):
Have they been used before in Russia's war in Ukraine?

15 (22m 4s):
Yes. Both sides have been using cluster munitions against each other. These are Soviet era cluster munitions and it's been in use on both sides, but this will be the first time that the US has actually providing them.

19 (22m 18s):
Russia has been using cluster munitions since the start of this war to attack Ukraine. Russia has been using cluster munitions with high dud or failure rates of between 30 and 40%. In this environment, Ukraine has been requesting cluster munitions in order to defend its own sovereign territory.

15 (22m 38s):
I'm sure there are good reasons for why the Ukrainians want them or why they're gonna be useful on the battlefield. The real question is, is this worth it? Is it worth using such a controversial weapon that so many countries have banned that we know will kill civilians for years or maybe even decades in the future? Cuz they lie, they're like landmines. Is that worth it? I mean, one of Ukraine's most important weapons is the moral high ground in this war. And the question is really whether this is worth it.

0 (23m 7s):
What's been the world's response?

15 (23m 9s):
It varies. you know, most of Ukraine's allies who are also providing weapons have been fairly circumspect about not criticizing the United States, but it puts them in an awkward position cuz countries like the uk, Canada, Germany, they've all banned cluster bombs. They've all signed on to this treaty against them,

20 (23m 28s):
The uk, Germany, the Canada, New Zealand, they've all come out against this decision all saying that they don't believe these weapons should be used. British Prime Minister Rishi Soak, he has said that Britain does not endorse this. He's one of 123 countries to ban their use. The Spanish defense minister has come out even further. She said yes to the legitimate defense of Ukraine, no to cluster munitions.

15 (23m 53s):
It doesn't look good that the US is providing a weapon that its allies have considered to be morally reprehensible. But

0 (23m 60s):
I think what I hear you saying is other countries can't stop Ukraine or Russia from using these.

15 (24m 6s):
No, they can't. This is basically a bilateral transfer from the US to Ukraine. So short of withdrawing support or you know, reacting in some other way, then there's nothing these other countries can do.

19 (24m 23s):
Ukraine has provided written assurances that it is going to use these in a very careful way that is aimed at minimizing any risk to civilians. And by the way, Ukraine, the democratically elected government of Ukraine has every incentive to minimize risk to civilians because it's their citizens. It's Ukrainians who they are trying to protect and defend.

0 (24m 54s):
Matthew Akins is a Reporter and author of the book, the Naked Don't Fear the Water, an Underground Journey with Afghan refugees. Today's show was produced by Hai Artsy and edited by Matthew Collette. It was fact checked by Hadi Mawajdeh, Amanda Lue and Laura Bullard. Patrick Boyd is our engineer. The rest of the team includes Halima Shaw, c Petros, miles Bryan, Victoria Chamberlain, John Aarons, Michael Rayfield, and my co-host Sean Ramis firm. Our supervising producer is Amina Elsa. Our EP is Miranda Kennedy. Our music comes from Breakmaster Cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld. I am Noel King, and today explained is distributed to public radio stations across the United States by W N Y C and is part of the Vox Media Podcast network.