3 (0s):
As you may have heard on the show, I just took a week away from the show and it was weird because I wasn't working for a week. But all I could think

4 (8s):
about was rise.com. It's

3 (10s):
this all-in-one system that

4 (12s):
makes online training easy to create and enjoyable to take and simple to manage and

3 (17s):
you know Learners love it managers love it. It loves it. And strangely. I am in love with rise.com see why you will love Rise.com by starting a free 30-day trial to today at rise.com today. It's explained. I'm Sean Rama's firm. We've made who

4 (48s):
knows how many episodes about covid-19

3 (50s):
and quarantine but we've had this big blind spot the entire time not one mention of Tiger King or love is blind or extraction. We have not talked about Netflix according to data from Nielsen the global. Has more of us turning to services like Netflix than ever before streaming doubled

4 (1m 12s):
between 2019 and 2020

3 (1m 15s):
the company added something like 16 million subscribers in the first few months of the year. So many people were streaming shows and movies that the EU had to ask Netflix to lower their video quality Netflix almost broke the internet during quarantine. There's no denying. The company has changed

4 (1m 35s):
entertainment as we know it

3 (1m 37s):
and our friends over at recode have a new podcast all about how that happened. It's called Land of the Giants the

4 (1m 44s):
Netflix effect and

3 (1m 46s):
it's going to change how you think about Netflix over the course of seven episodes, which you can't yet binge because they're coming

4 (1m 53s):
out one at a time every Tuesday for the next few weeks. You're

3 (1m 56s):
going to hear about how Netflix is kind of a cult e company to work for and how the company eviscerated Blockbuster and disrupted Hollywood how Creepy algorithm knows what your brain wants to see next and why the company is totally cool carrying the debt of a small country. So be sure to subscribe wherever you're listening to this right now and to whet your appetite were running the first episode on today explain today here. It is Land of the Giants the Netflix effect episode 1

4 (2m 32s):
back in early March about a week before we all went on lockdown our team got on a plane ever planes and went to Netflix's headquarters in Hollywood to meet with a bunch of their top executives. I'm with a news crew could I don't really like books from almost every child.

3 (2m 51s):
Good luck. All right. Thanks. Okay

4 (2m 57s):
went through the famous Netflix Lobby which has the state of the art video screens that show Netflix movies and TV shows and they change every couple of seconds. It's really impressive. We pass these Bountiful micro kitchens are overflowing with snacks and food and everything you'd ever want and we went to a conference room where we sat down with the most powerful man in They would thank you for making time. Easy question. Tell us your name. What you do Ted surrenders. I'm the chief content officer Netflix Ted, Serrano spends billions and billions of dollars a year to make TV shows and movies that get watched by a couple hundred million people around the world but a decade ago Netflix wasn't reshaping entertainment as we know it. It was just a company that rented out DVDs and streamed other companies old TV shows and movies Ted surround us wanted to change that.

4 (3m 38s):
He and his boss CEO Reed Hastings want to Netflix to start making its own stuff stuff. That was as good. Good as anything you'd see on HBO or NBC? They wanted to show their customers and Hollywood that they were serious in order to do that. They needed a big serious hit that's how you devour a whale

3 (3m 57s):
one bite at a time

4 (4m 0s):
enter House of Cards given Tay. Welcome to Washington. A big-budget political drama starring a big name Kevin Spacey. This is back when it was okay to let Kevin Spacey and made by a big-time director David Fincher who made movies like seven Fight Club and social network texture and has really wanted the show, but so did everyone else. So when I looked at that and said, how why would they do this show with us? Everybody wanted House of Cards? So HBO FX AMC everyone was bidding on it. And why would they do with us? We've never made Or release an original anything as so basically I said look we're going to have to have an answer for that.

4 (4m 41s):
HBO could tell Fincher and Company. They were the home of The Sopranos and Sex in the City AMC could boast about Mad Men and breaking bad. But Netflix just had

3 (4m 49s):
Red Envelope mailers for their

4 (4m 51s):
DVDs. So sir and has had to get creative and he had to break out his checkbook. This committee has accused me of a great number of things you accuse me of

3 (4m 60s):
pay-to-play

4 (5m 2s):
if the show didn't work. We will have dramatically overpaid for one show. And if it does work, it could fundamentally change our business. So to me it was a classic risk-reward analysis and we were able to apply to it. This is the deal Netflix would pay a hundred million dollars to make the show and promised to make two full seasons without ever seeing a single pilot. This would be a giant bed for any company in the content business, but it was colossal for Netflix which had never done any of this before but the craziest part wasn't the money or even at a tech company was going to make two seasons of the show sight unseen. How much of your ability to get this deal done to do a hundred million dollars two seasons is specific to Netflix is culture.

4 (5m 44s):
Well a hundred percent because I told read about the deal after we did it. Really? Oh, yeah, so that he literally had no idea that you had plunk down a hundred million dollars only Seasons half the company was still believing that exclusivity wouldn't matter so you can call up read and say by the way to spend a hundred million dollars on my show pretty much what's around us. Talking about here is a big part of Netflix's internal culture. It's something employees referred to as freedom and responsibility. It's what allowed Sorrento's to bet really big on something. He had no idea how to do and to do it without running it by his boss

3 (6m 18s):
first.

4 (6m 21s):
Serena's believes that Netflix is culture led by Hastings is what allowed it to become the industry changing Zeitgeist defining giant. It is today. It was him creating the culture that empowered me to do that and knowing that I could rationalize the risk-reward side of it upside of this deal that works out and knowing if I thought that I was going to get fired if it didn't work. I probably would have missed it. What was his reaction when you said by the way, we just bought a show for exist, which he was very excited about it. I mean, he was a little anxious a little anxious $109 a lot of money enough to us at that point some context here a couple of years earlier Netflix. It's been about 25 million dollars to buy huge catalog and movies from Disney and Sony for two years.

4 (7m 1s):
And this was a hundred million dollars for a single show. I will tell you that. He completely understood the logic going into it and understand what we did and I said it was fast moving and you know, that's why we did it and that the idea that if it makes it that we become much different than what everyone thought we were and if you think it was hard getting here you beginning to understand what I'm willing to do to stay. You know, the rest House of Cards was a commercial and critical smash it will Hollywood and everyone else that Netflix wasn't just a place to see reruns anymore. And now Netflix makes just about anything it wants whenever it wants Ted Sorrento's was right.

3 (7m 44s):
This is

4 (7m 44s):
Land of the Giants the Netflix effect on Peter Kafka and I'm here with my colleague Ron Ebola Peter and

3 (7m 51s):
I are both reporters at recoating box and over the next seven episodes. We're going to explore how Netflix has reshaped how we watch and what we watch we're going to cover a lot of ground this season from the way Netflix toppled Blockbuster Video and disrupted Hollywood to the streaming Wars that have kicked off thanks to Netflix has an enormous success, but we're going to start the series off with what people at Netflix will tell you is the most important thing. Netflix its internal culture which I bet does not look like any company you've ever worked for

4 (8m 25s):
Maybe you've heard about hard-driving tech companies and Netflix is certainly one of those but it's way weirder than that. There are all kinds of things at Netflix that sound better than the place you work at like you get to make more money or you take as much vacation as you want and there are lots of things that sound really worrisome. Like the idea of the company is constantly trying to figure out if it can replace you with someone better or that you're going to get constant criticism from your co-workers and managers of pretty much anyone and that you've got to take that criticism. Seriously,

3 (8m 52s):
the culture comes with its own language to so if you want to work, Are you have to learn to use phrases like blast radius? No, brilliant jerk steeper test sun shining if you think that sounds like a cult. Well, sometimes working on this podcast. We felt that way too but this isn't some management fad that Netflix picked up recently. It's deep in the company's bones enough us believes deeply that its core to its success

4 (9m 17s):
much a Netflix is culture was shaped by Reed Hastings and his longtime head of HR Patty McCord who is now a corporate management Superstar based on her work there.

3 (9m 25s):
The way McCord tells it a critical part of the Netflix DNA came out of a brutal day in 2001 when Netflix was just a few years old and she laid off a third of the company. We said goodbye because we ran out of money and we were just broke and what we literally did was we gathered in the parking lot where we always did and read said today is the day we're going to say goodbye to some of you and your managers going to tell you who goes to see Patti and her team and HR and who's going to stay Boris Troutman was an early Netflix engineer. He remembers standing outside in the parking lot listening to Hastings address the company wondering if he was still going to have a job when he sings finished speaking.

4 (10m 8s):
You'll gonna go back to the office and your manager will tell you what do you made it on didn't make it

3 (10m 14s):
and so after that we all kind of trickled in back to the office

4 (10m 18s):
and the manager started calling in people who didn't make it one in the time to the office and letting them know

3 (10m 25s):
so that was pretty pretty tough Germans. Those cuts that is obviously freaked out but for Patty McCord, this is what you did for a living. Come on. This is I've done that I had done this. I've been in Silicon Valley for 30 years. You think I haven't done a layoff before this is nothing but even McCord who was used to firing people was surprised that would happen next that layoffs was what begat the high performance culture and we got twice as much done with the third as many people and it was more fun. And that was that truly I think was the beginning of the culture. ER which is you know, we were working so hard and we're getting so much done and that beautiful start up if you've ever been in it's just so thrilling

4 (11m 7s):
the takeaway from McCord and Hastings and other Netflix Executives was that laying people off can be good for the company and more than that. Netflix was a team not a family. So it wants to swap out the players. It has four better ones whenever it can some employees like draughtsman the ones who kept their jobs were not as excited about this.

3 (11m 27s):
What I've heard was the notion of the team of

4 (11m 31s):
employees being considered as a team of football players, but if you can upgrade any one of them, why wouldn't you and so it was very kind of cold and calculated approach to Human Resources.

3 (11m 44s):
You can call that cold and calculating but he sings A McCord thought that this idea along with the other values they developed along the way really defined what Netflix was or could be the really want to figure out a way to cultivate and preserve this culture. So they wrote it down. Down if you go back and you look at the quote famous culture deck, the first chapter is about the values and behaviors that we expect from each other. Like if I want if I expect honesty from you was that mean and if you're dishonest, what does that mean? This is the beginning of what's now known as the Netflix culture deck Netflix kept us inside the company for years, but in 2009 at shared it on the internet, you can still find a version of it on Netflix to site today. It's this 125 page slide show.

4 (12m 28s):
This was a huge hit at Tech and startup companies because it's a can start up companies the idea of moving fast and making it up as you go and not wearing that much about our charts sounds kind of familiar, even if you don't actually do that stuff. It sounds like something you want to do because that's how you're supposed to disrupt the big and trench companies in your way the way the Google and Facebook did it. So in Silicon Valley Netflix is model was aspirational and also plausible and an echo of stuff they already believed

3 (12m 55s):
and what's not to love nothing says preaching. See hard work building a team of All-Stars giving people room or rather the freedom and responsibility to work the way they want to work. Okay. Well we have adults who are high performers. Well, should we have a bunch of rules, you know at the time we were at that chapter. We had just gone public and everybody was telling us it was time for our employee handbook and it was time for all the policies and we thought why You know really what if we experiment with that, but if we don't have a travel policy what if we don't have a time off policy

4 (13m 29s):
and this is crucial this wasn't advice coming from some business school Professor or a consultant or some doofus running a blog post when Netflix put this on the internet. This was coming from a company that was winning. They were kicking ass and they were telling you this is how we did it. You can do it too

3 (13m 45s):
for employees the trade-off for all this Excellence has been the things are not necessarily stable at Netflix you may Like that, or you may find that really unsettling. You're only on there when you're performing your best, and I know once you're not at your best you get cut. Shalini ramachandran is a Wall Street Journal reporter who spent years covering Netflix and wrote a fascinating story that really dug into the pros and cons of working there. You started to see that people are like this is super weird like this. It actually is like not that fun place to work. We're really scared of being fired. A lot of the people I talked to felt that there was a culture fear.

3 (14m 26s):
In fact, there was a former HR executive who said that she often heard that but I think that at the same time it wasn't just like oh so horrible place to work and I regret it was awesome. It was really tough and I hated the way I was fired and my friend was fired, but I'm really glad I got to work there for some time. One crucial Point she explored in a reporting was the way the people at the top of the org chart felt about the culture versus the rank-and-file many of the top Executives as you can imagine drink the Kool-Aid of like Netflix is obviously has been doing a great job and business and innovating its own business.

3 (15m 9s):
And so in many of the things that it's been doing they can point to our culture. It's working the Top Line results are great. But I think what many of the people at the top probably can't see is what's going on as you grow at this Breakneck Pace

4 (15m 22s):
as we were working. In this podcast, we spoke with people who worked at Netflix who told us some of the same stuff. I talked to a marketer who said the company had a punishing work ethic that was not sustainable. And then she also told me that when she left Netflix. She knew she'd never get paid that well again

3 (15m 36s):
publicly Netflix doesn't express any doubts about how it runs the company it sings of high achieving culture is what enabled it to beat Blockbuster and leap years ahead of everyone else in media and Tech enough explosives culture helps recruit employees McCord and Netflix co-founder Mark Randolph have written books about it and Reed Hastings has one coming out this fall

4 (15m 55s):
and let's be clear lots of companies say their culture is key to their success and lots of companies spend time talking about their values in the original version of the Netflix culture deck Reed Hastings pointed out that Enron had its values including the word integrity chiseled on the wall of his Lobby. And this was before it went bankrupt and its leaders went to jail for fraud, but it Netflix. You just can't pay lip service to this stuff. You really need to believe in it or at least act convincingly as If you do you need to be all in

3 (16m 26s):
the bosses do acknowledge that Netflix culture born in a Silicon Valley startup developed at Hyper Speed may not work everywhere Hastings for instance doesn't think you could use the Netflix model to run a factory that makes cars or a vaccine stuff. You have to make exactly the same way every single time using a very strict set of

2 (16m 43s):
rules.

4 (16m 45s):
There's also a question about how well this culture is going to work as Netflix moves from being a Silicon Valley company to a Hollywood company and it looks now as this big Office right on Sunset Boulevard over the last few years a lot of Netflix hires it come from movie studios TV networks. It's paying a lot of Hollywood veterans much better than their old jobs did and in the process Netflix is remaking Hollywood, but we're going to find out how well those people can adapt to the Netflix way of doing things. Kelly isn't the only concern here Netflix is setting up offices all over the world at a culture that works in California may not fly in Europe or Asia. This is a huge global test for Netflix and it's underway right now. We're not going to get the results for years.

4 (17m 32s):
Spencer Wang was a Wall Street analyst who covered Netflix and Reed Hastings liked his work so much that he hired him as head of investor relations where he would talk to other Wall Street people and up until then Wang thought he knew Netflix pretty well until he found out that anyone who worked there got to see the most valuable information. The company had its running tally of subscribers like oh my gosh. This is like if I was an analyst, this is like a gold mine like this is exactly what I would want and I was like, I was like

3 (17m 59s):
who gets this like, you

4 (18m 0s):
know, and I think Wells like a couple Some people like you know, whoever signs up I was like,

3 (18m 4s):
whoa, that's crazy. John Friedland was a reporter for the Wall Street Journal where he spent a lot of time trying to learn company Secrets. Then he went to work in PR for Disney which tries really hard to keep it secret secret working for Netflix was very

4 (18m 17s):
different. I'll never forget because my first meeting they're up there. They're talking all the numbers to everybody director and up which is how many people at that point. It was maybe a hundred people but it was like holy cannoli

3 (18m 30s):
what Friedland was looking at? We're not Alex's Financial results numbers, it hadn't made public yet at other publicly traded companies those numbers which are only released the world. Every three months are treated like nuclear launch codes

4 (18m 43s):
getting that information early as worth a ton of money to a ton of people and Netflix is basically handing it out to its employees. There's no armed guards. No lock no key to go to this place where they're just freely talking about economic outcomes and the finances prior to public disclosure struck me as remarkable because Is confiding and that large group of people about very sensitive Financial materials was kind of a high level of trust and

3 (19m 10s):
confidence to put in your staff and you know what it worked just

4 (19m 13s):
like it's kind of crazy that Netflix has never had these numbers leak out. It just lays them out for hundreds of its employees and almost daring them to abuse it it's a pretty cool message, which is we're going to treat you like adults and part of being an adult is understanding what's going on at your business. So, you know what we know and also part of being an adult is being discreet. In other words, the company is telling its employees we trust you. This is a big part of the Netflix culture this idea of radical transparency. We believe in

3 (19m 41s):
internal

4 (19m 42s):
transparency because we want our employees to be well equipped with context on what we're trying to do as a business so that the employees feel empowered to make smart decisions on behalf of the company. So maybe being able to see inside your company's finances sounds like a good thing to you. What about letting your co-workers see what you make

3 (20m 3s):
sounds a little less

4 (20m 4s):
good but that's radical transparency to there are some 500 Executives at Netflix that have the ability to see what every single employee makes and at one point recently Reed Hastings suggested that every employee at Netflix should be able to see what all 7,000 employees make that one didn't happen because other Netflix execs shot it down turns out that even people who Embrace radical transparency draw the line somewhere

3 (20m 26s):
and even the executive we talked to earlier John Friedland surpassed the boundaries of Netflix's tolerance for Candor another Of the companies buzzwords in 2018, the former Communications Chief use the n-word to illustrate how harmful saying the word retarded could be a Netflix comedy special use the word again that day when he described the incident to HR after an internal uproar Friedland apologized Netflix employees. He was eventually fired. Coming up how Netflix made the biggest mistake in its history and how the lessons from that self-inflicted wound ended up making its culture even weirder.

3 (21m 12s):
Support for the show today comes from NerdWallet smart money podcast. It's a podcast that wants to help

4 (21m 19s):
keep you informed about all the pressing Financial issues that you might be

3 (21m 23s):
having right now and also financial news whether you're a finance Pro or a finance bro, or just someone trying to do a little bit more with your money or just want to keep up with the, you

4 (21m 35s):
know, economic climate in

3 (21m 37s):
the country right now the smart money. Has you covered You Got Two Hosts ones named Sean. So perfect the other ones named Liz.

4 (21m 45s):
So that's cool too. They

3 (21m 47s):
walk you through the week's financial news and break down

4 (21m 51s):
all your pressing money questions. And you know, there's a lot of pressing money questions right now be they about, you know, mortgages

3 (21m 58s):
or rent or student loans or unemployment or or government benefits all that stuff and more financial news. You'll find it on nerd wallets smart money. A podcast find it wherever you listen Apple Spotify one of those apps check it out nerd wallets smart money

2 (22m 18s):
show.

3 (22m 30s):
Welcome back to Land of the Giants the Netflix effect. We're exploring the fluxes unique culture and how and why they made it we're going to tell you about a part of Netflix's culture that came out of one of its biggest

4 (22m 40s):
mistakes. OK Roddy. I'm going to take you back to 2011 when Reed Hastings almost sank the company. All

3 (22m 46s):
right. So here's the deal today Netflix announced that was splitting its business into two. I mean the good news that's going to come out of this is no longer. Will New Coke be the worst Public Announcement. It's really going to be quick stir which I'm saying is dead stir.

4 (22m 58s):
This is Netflix's attempt to get the world to embrace. Screaming long before straining was mainstream and it failed.

3 (23m 5s):
It's one of those experiences that no one wants to think about that's for sure.

4 (23m 9s):
It feels so badly that Netflix execs like Cindy Holland who runs original programming have tried to forget

2 (23m 14s):
it.

4 (23m 18s):
Let's back up Netflix started out in the late 90s shipping movies and TV shows on DVDs through the mail and 2007 Reed Hastings began letting a subscriber stream videos over the internet to free at first. This is the thing that appealed just early adopters, but by 2011 millions of Netflix customers were doing it Casey's wanted things to move even faster. He wanted everyone to stream any wanted to start getting out of the DVD business. We were a hybrid surface with DVD and streaming together in the u.s. Starting to do streaming alone internationally. I realized it we would be better if we could split those two services. So we were not dependent on DVD and that we were the best streaming company.

4 (23m 58s):
You can hear this voice Hastings is a Guy and he's a very logical dude and like a lot of Silicon Valley logical dudes, especially those that have had some success early on like heated Hastings assume that if it made sense to him you'd get it too. In his mind. This was simple streaming was the future and Netflix had to make itself into a streaming company. So Hastings tried to force the issue

3 (24m 20s):
you still be able to stream movies, but if you want DVDs, you're gonna have to use a whole new service

4 (24m 25s):
boy are people pissed off about that one in 2011 Netflix announced that its basic service which offered DVDs and unlimited streaming for 10 bucks a month was now going to be two Services if you wanted to watch stuff on the internet you'd pay eight bucks a month for that. And if you wanted to rent DVDs you pay another eight bucks a month for that, too.

3 (24m 42s):
So you have to pay a lot more to get the same stuff you got before

4 (24m 46s):
it is a good way of putting it. It was a 60% price hike delivered when Americans were still climbing out of a huge recession and it went along with a move to make a simple service way more complicated. You can imagine how that went over.

3 (24m 58s):
No one was thrilled by the recent Netflix pricing increase but the way in which they delivered the message was what really seems to have caused the majority of the

4 (25m 5s):
backlash. This is one of the first mainstream internet uprisings against a big consumer company. A lot of this happened on Facebook were Netflix customers went to complaint and sometimes they would find Reed Hastings. They're answering some of their complaints. He was extra hands on back then it's hard to remember what 2011 was like but a lot of the internet mass behavior social interaction stuff was just starting and so this idea that then people would be upset on Facebook and then other people would see it and amp up the total conversation. We had not witnessed many of those in society before Netflix customers weren't the only ones who didn't like Hastings idea. Any of his Executives also had doubts, but they were scared to tell him that or more generous.

4 (25m 47s):
They figured Reed Hastings and super smart. And if he thought it was right, he must be right even if it made no sense to them.

3 (25m 54s):
I do remember the conversations, you know, the difficult thing about it is read had been right about almost

4 (26m 1s):
everything Cindy Holland is one of those Executives who didn't know how to tell Hastings that splitting the business into might be a mistake.

3 (26m 9s):
This was really the first big example where I think there was some Nervousness. Yeah, there were some doubts, but he just been right so many times

4 (26m 18s):
this wasn't terrible logic by the way Reed Hastings with the guy started a video company back when everyone in the world got their videos from Blockbuster bad idea, right but he won by 2011 Netflix had more than 20 million subscribers and Blockbuster was bankrupt. So maybe Hastings did know what he was talking about. Everyone knows the tale of the self-absorbed arrogant CEO who doesn't listen and there's an element of Because we have been so successful and so many things before that but the more subtle one is that I had been so successful before that. Most of the executives thought this isn't smart or I don't think it is smart, but Reed has been right on so many things I'll bet he's right on this one and I'm just not seeing it but the customer saw and Netflix paid the price by the end of the year more than 700,000 people have cancelled their Netflix subscription.

4 (27m 8s):
And at one point Netflix doc had dropped by 70% What was it like inside the company when you roll this out and then saw the feedback coming in saw the stock drop. What was it? What was it? Like we were defensive and we're like we knew it was going to be hard. We weren't stupid that it was people were going to like, it customers bailed on him and investors Hammer to stock and Hastings double down to emphasize that the future of Netflix was screaming. He announced that Netflix is DVD company was no longer going to be called Netflix anymore, and he decided the best way to announce that was a video. Hi, I'm Reed Hastings CEO and co-founder of

3 (27m 42s):
We've been working for the past

4 (27m 44s):
14 years to build Netflix year by year into the best possible service. We could build

3 (27m 50s):
we're making this video today to

4 (27m 53s):
apologize in person or at least on camera for something that we did recently. This is a weird video. It features Hastings sitting outside at a patio table wearing a bright teal button-down shirt. It's also weird because he's not really apologizing. He's saying he's going ahead with this plan that everyone hates. Oh and he's got a new name for it. It to we think that the DVD service

3 (28m 15s):
needs its own brand so that we can advertise it. So we've named our DVD service

4 (28m 20s):
quick stir. What the hell is a quick stir? Why is it being spelled q w and y is the CEO of this tech company shooting Lo-Fi apology videos outside his office this video and that name we're so widely panned that even Saturday Night Live went after it and now a message from netflix.com. Hi, I'm Reed Hastings CEO and co-founder of Netflix. This is Jason Sudeikis is Reed Hastings and Fred Armisen is next him as one of his underlings fake Reed Hastings. By the way is wearing that t-shirt. We know you love Netflix because it was an easy to use website for all your moving needs to make it better. We split it into two separate slightly more confusing sites Netflix for streaming video and quickster, which will handle DVD rentals.

3 (29m 5s):
Did we sell a quick stir in a normal way? No, we didn't know. You wik annoying but easier,

4 (29m 12s):
right? Yeah, and by the way, we know it's off-putting to see the CEO of a powerful company rocking a goatee and teal shirt, but trust us. We know what we're doing. This is a great video, by the way, it is definitely worth looking up and Netflix got lucky the skit never actually ran on SNL itself. It was only online and remember the SNL video. Yes, if you're wincing Steve Swayze handled PR for Netflix during the qwikster debacle The thing is Alex moves fast on everything and when it's the consumer benefit everybody loves it, but when it's a mistake, it's Amplified and that's when we really started to feel the hurt. That's when people really revolted the non-apology apology video did not work more subscribers left and Netflix stock sank even lower and Reed Hastings.

4 (29m 58s):
The super logical guy who was convinced that he was right and everyone else was wrong. Finally got the message. He was left with no choice

3 (30m 6s):
Netflix has abandoned quick Stir It Widely, panned movie streaming service Netflix says it was just too quick with its plan for quick

4 (30m 14s):
stir. You know other words quickster is dead. Even today Hastings says he was wrong with that wrong. The big thing was we did a 60 percent price increase to 20 million American families in the middle of a recession. So there's no Communications is going to make that go down. Well, so to recap you raise prices you make a simple service complicated you create a terrible name for a new product that people do not want until Everyone who hates it that they're wrong. This was not a great run for Hastings, and he put the life of his company in danger, but Netflix survived eventually subscriber numbers started taking up again. And since that's all Wall Street really cared about the stock went up again to and while the clicks your name has gone to heaven Hastings still ended up going forward with his plan to make DVDs separate from Netflix a streaming service today.

4 (31m 2s):
If you want to get Netflix to send you DVDs you can you go to a service called DDD.com and you sign up there and you pay Another eight bucks a month. The lesson for Hastings was not that he screwed up or that he was too early pushing streaming or maybe should have worn a different color shirt in that video. It's that lots of people around them could have told them he was going to make a mistake but they didn't they lost their own self-confidence. It wasn't me suppressing it. It was them overly differential because of the track record of the beating Blockbuster all these like crazy unlikely and hard things and so afterwards what we realized is, okay. We need to be much more. More active at farming for descent Hastings vowed to run a company where everyone everywhere could tell everyone else what they thought of them and their ideas and specifically Netflix came up with this idea where you could take a crazy big swing of something but you better ask other Netflix's to troubleshoot it first.

4 (31m 55s):
This is what Hastings a Netflix call farming for descent. You're trying to get your co-workers to tell you what's wrong with your idea. If you tell everyone about your plan and you get their feedback and they hate it and you still want to go ahead you can and if it fails you'll be okay. In theory, but if you haven't farmed for Dissent in advance, and you also fail you're going to have a problem because then they all see each other's just an open Google doc. So they all see how each other feel and then everybody has to vote in public in writing of do they think this would be wise dupa dot stupid and then it's up to me to write a summary of okay. This is what I heard and it might be that we're still doing X or Y which might not be the popular choice.

4 (32m 37s):
So no one it's Not advertised as a democracy. Let's vote it up like the senate or something, but it's everyone on

3 (32m 44s):
record still not a hundred percent sure that employees will ever be as candid with Hastings or their boss as they might be with people who can't lay them off and ruin their

4 (32m 52s):
lives. So you're suggesting that it's one thing to tell me that you don't like my salad choice and I think to go tell our CEO that you don't like the directions company's going exactly. Yeah, that makes sense. And Reed Hastings made one other decision after a quick stir he had that teal shirt in the closet and he never wore it again and a few years later. He gathered his employees and held a ceremonial burning. Where did you burn it just in that same Patty where the video is

3 (33m 16s):
awesome. Reed Hastings is happy to tell you he got quickster wrong, but enough likes everyone is supposed to tell you how they got something wrong. And if you're at high enough level and you screw up, it's not enough to just admit that you screwed up. You have to do it in public Shalini ramachandran at the Wall Street Journal wrote about this process is called sun shining Sunshine is when you have done a misdeed and you're forced to be in front of various numbers of people whether it's your team or a bunch of Executives the holy staff at they call it all the vp's and above where the Directors level above which would be hundreds of people and you're supposed to go up there and you're supposed to say this is the bad thing.

3 (34m 1s):
I did. I'm sorry. These are all the ways that I was wrong maybe depending on how you think about work or the people you work with that can sound like a good idea or a super awkward one, but it's hard to think that many people would be comfortable with one of Netflix's most radical ideas. The keeper test keeper test is what managers are supposed to apply constantly to anybody on their team. Mmmmm, which is the question of are you the best person for this role? And if the answer is no the what the keeper test says is you that person should no longer work at the company many people come there knowing that they might get cut any time and this all comes to this keeper test

4 (34m 40s):
Ronnie. I got to say I am not comfortable to keep protest. I don't think I'd be comfortable with it during boom times when it's relatively easy to get a job and now we're in a giant

3 (34m 48s):
recession. Yeah, but Messick's argue that doesn't mean it's firing people left and right it's total turnover rate is like 11 or 12 percent which is says is in line with the rest of the tech in media industry, but even people who like working at Netflix a the keeper tests and the idea that you're constantly having to prove yourself or at least prove that you're applying the keeper test to people who work for you can be just as nerve-racking as it sounds is every single person in my team the right person to be here do they deserve to be here and it's something you're supposed to be constantly asking yourself and some managers even told us that they feel pressured to fire people or else there was Cooking too soft the knowledge of this keeper test and the fact that people know about it that that their managers are constantly judging them.

3 (35m 32s):
It makes them feel worried that well, I could be fired any minute.

4 (35m 36s):
The keeper test is supposed to apply to everyone including the person who helped Reed Hastings created. That's HR Director Petty McCord. Ultimately, I had to make the decision that the company would be better with someone else in

3 (35m 49s):
that role in 2012 Hastings decided that McCord was no longer passing the keeper test. She knew the deal it's a team not a family and so he let her go

4 (35m 57s):
because we had made that clear. They can respect me making a judgment for the benefit of the team. Even if it's hurtful to them and still be great friends and allies and do things together. So I agree that it's unusual but it kind of falls out of Being clear up front that were working together for the benefit of the company and it's not a family. So then it's not a violation of a social

3 (36m 23s):
Norm. If you ask either Hastings record about what happened. Both of them say they don't have hard feelings about it. The company had grown and changed it was becoming more of a Hollywood company and less of a pure tech company McCord didn't fit there anymore. But even Patty McCord who discusses firings and layoffs with such ease who one-point lead off a third of the company still has a difficult time discussing. Own departure, of course, it was an emotional experience. I'd worked with this guy for 20 years. This is my company. I still talk about it as my company. I still believe it's my company. It was very very sad to leave but it was completely reasonable. You know, I really was not the right person.

3 (37m 4s):
I'm not the right person. Other top Executives at Hastings has unkept include Neil hunt an early product executive and a longtime friend and Mark Randolph who co-founded the company with him

4 (37m 19s):
to me. That's a little jarring. So I asked Hastings about what it was like to let go of some of his closest and earliest collaborators were even surprised that you fired them. You know you use the word fire which is in some sense accurate because I get a severance package but at a senior level is not like I walk into an office and do the you're fired. We in both cases talked about it over many many months. So I don't think there was any surprise, you know at the end that sounds difficult but Hastings says he's gotten better at it over time. The key he says is to not be too human about it. The first time I was a CEO I Do it at all because I was so focused on kindness and sort of the human value and you know and hurting someone, you know was just too hard for me.

4 (38m 9s):
And so then it's like for someone really need to be fired. I would sit there and fumble around and could even say the words, you know, as like that total bad leadership situation and ultimately I realized that honesty is very valuable. And as long as I was doing it for the right reasons because I thought it was better for the company I could live with myself. With even even though it hurt me that it hurt the person

3 (38m 32s):
when he sings started running the company back at the turn of the century. Nothing's had a few hundred employees. And the Big Challenge is figuring out how to move disks in envelopes around the country now is about buying and making content for the world and streaming it over the internet and managing more than 7,000 employees.

4 (38m 47s):
So what if it turns out that Reed Hastings isn't the right guy to run Netflix one day I asked his number two tents around us who's gonna tell Reid that you failed to keep her test. Nobody whoa, whoa. Would they but Hastings knows that one day he is going to be replaced. How are you thinking about your succession plan and your your keeper test? You know, I'm not the best judge for me. The board is really the best judge. I'd love to stay at Netflix for a long time. I had no other plans besides philanthropy and if the board is looking for a reason to keep Hastings, all I have to do is run the numbers here is the most important one its stock price 2002 when Netflix went public to share the company's worth about a dollar today is we're recording this.

4 (39m 28s):
This is worth about 440 dollars and Reed Hastings will tell you he has the Netflix culture to thank for

3 (39m 34s):
that. Okay, Peter, you past the keeper test

4 (39m 43s):
for this episode for

3 (39m 45s):
the rest of the season. We're going to discuss how Netflix has revolutionized what we watch how we watch and more like how

4 (39m 51s):
Netflix is forced huge companies, like Disney apple and Amazon to chase after it.

3 (39m 56s):
Yep. We're diving into the streaming Wars and what the future of streaming looks like. We're also going to look back to a time when Netflix change your Friday night trips to the video store. Good night. Make it a Blockbuster. Blockbuster understood that only 20% of customers who came in would get the movie that they wanted and they would have to get something else the other 80% of the

4 (40m 17s):
time I had people tell her I saw you in here when I dropped it off you tell me you didn't check it in on time. I'm not paying that if we get got the heated that's right. We are going back to Blockbuster Video and how Netflix killed the video store. That's next time on Land of the Giants the Netflix effect.

3 (40m 35s):
This podcast is a production of re code by ivy. Ox and the VOX media podcast Network. This episode was produced by Bridget Armstrong and Zach Mac. Our editor is Charlie Herman got some tree kishan engineered and scored this episode and compose. Our theme Zach. Mac is our showrunner and shot kurwa is the executive

4 (40m 51s):
producer quick disclosure vox.com and VOX media makes shows for Netflix. None of the people working on this season of Land of the Giants are involved in the production of those

3 (41m 0s):
shows on feeder Kafka and I'm Ronnie Mo Le. Thanks for listening.