0 (0s):
It's happening again. A friend. got it. I. think I. got it. at the Giants game, Then a neighbor for the fourth.

1 (9s):
Time

0 (10s):
Then. a colleague Good

2 (12s):
Luck with that Daily News podcast y Allall. But I'm

0 (14s):
Out. And another colleague. I've got the bug for Bely note as the Dobble Coronavirus and another colleague for the first time, Then Dr Jill Biden Got it.

3 (25s):
Like so many of you, I'm left asking, how do I keep my family safe?

0 (32s):
Covid I seems to be everywhere. Again. There's a new variant, but there are also some fresh vaccines.

4 (39s):
A health advisory panel deciding whether the updated C Ovid 19 boosters from Pfizer, BioNTech and Moderna should be available to people as young as five years of age, or only groups deemed high risk.

0 (50s):
On today explained. We're gonna deliver some news you can use, whether you're still scared of it, totally over it, or somewhere in between.

Crucible Moments (1m 0s):
Support for this show today comes from Crucible Moments. Crucible Moments is a new podcast from Sequoia Capital and it takes you inside the pivotal decisions that shaped top companies like Airbnb, PayPal, 23, and Me and More. You can tune into Sequoia's new podcast series to discover how some of the most transformational companies of the modern era were built. Crucible Moments is out now and available everywhere you get your podcasts. and@cruciblemoments.com, you can listen to crucible moments.

0 (1m 33s):
Today,

5 (1m 34s):
Support for this episode comes from Zelle. You'd never fall for an online scam, right? You use two-factor authentication. Ignore calls from everyone named spam risk and never use the password. Password. But scammers are getting more sophisticated and more active, which means they're finding millions of new victims every single year. The good news is that there's a lot you can do to protect yourself on the wild, wild web. For starters, Zelle wants to remind you only send money to people you know and trust. Zelle is available to United States bank account holders.

5 (2m 14s):
Only terms and conditions apply.

6 (2m 26s):
I don't know who needs to hear this, but y'all. Covid is back. I have c O

7 (2m 30s):
D. I got caught in a summer search

8 (2m 32s):
And I got covid again for the fourth time. It really sucks. I'm 30 for weeks and I've been having bad body aches. I

6 (2m 39s):
Am a nurse. Y'all a pediatric nurse and we have been getting some covid and school hasn't really even started yet. Anyone

9 (2m 49s):
Else notice that? Like all the kids at school have covid?

10 (2m 55s):
Oh, I caught Covid on the way back from Grand Cayman the first week. Was this wasn pretty bad? I had really bad mouth sores. I was super tired. I had a fever. On

0 (3m 5s):
Today explained is the show. My name's Sean Ramis firm. I'm here with Keren Landman who writes about science and health for Vox and happens to be a trained epidemiologist. Keren. Am I crazy or do a lot of people have covid again?

11 (3m 21s):
Okay. Both can be true first of all, but no, a lot of people do have covid. Again, it does seem that almost everybody I know either has Covid or recently has Covid. My parents had Covid, I had Covid in August. Lots of people on our work Slack are out with Covid. A lot of people have covid right now. It's everywhere.

0 (3m 39s):
What is going on?

11 (3m 41s):
Well, we had a wave earlier this year, phase

12 (3m 44s):
Three of America's so-called triple demic tonight, sweeping the nation with a vengeance and pushing hospitals to a brutal new breaking point.

11 (3m 53s):
Immunity waned and variants continue to evolve, and I think there are just now enough variants that can capitalize on the waning immunity and not enough immunity to really fight 'em off. And so we're seeing a lot of people now susceptible to covid reinfection and that's what's happening.

0 (4m 12s):
And anyone who pays casual attention to Covid knows that there's a new variant. But it sounds like you're saying this isn't all just the new variant. There's a bunch of variants out there.

11 (4m 23s):
Almost none of this is the new variant that has gotten the most attention lately. It's kind of a mix of variants that have been emerging over the course of the last few months. You might might've heard Aris,

13 (4m 33s):
You know, Aris is that Greek goddess related to dissonance and strife, and I hope Aris doesn't cause that much dissonant and strife.

11 (4m 43s):
The EEG five variant. You might've heard foreign acts, you might've heard, you know, other ex bb.

0 (4m 49s):
Are you just naing Elon Musk's kids with Grimes? Yeah,

14 (4m 53s):
The AE is like pronounced ash. Yeah, and then a 12. A 12 is my contribution.

11 (5m 2s):
I guess the point is there's not like one variant dominating the scene right now, and the ones that are causing a lot of infections are not the one that has gotten the most media attention of late. Hmm.

0 (5m 14s):
With all these variants of foot, did people change their behaviors this summer?

11 (5m 20s):
Not so far as I can tell. No one's testing that I know until they get sick. And even then, like people have run out of those free home tests, a lot of people either cannot afford or cannot find other tests in grocery stores and pharmacies. So nobody's testing unless they absolutely have to. And if they're lucky enough to still have tests hanging around, very few people that I know are masking. I, you know, I've done a bunch of traveling recently and I saw scant people either in the airport or on the airplane masking in crowded public spaces. I will occasionally see somebody masking and occasionally mask myself, but you know, that's the exception rather than the rule. There have been a couple of polls recently about how concerned people are about Coronavirus, and I think the last I saw there was a Gallup poll from sometime in the middle of summer, maybe June or July, that said that maybe 18% of Americans are currently either somewhat or very concerned about Coronavirus, which is almost at their all time low.

11 (6m 18s):
So yeah, it's just a, I think much, much less on the mind as a cause of concern for most Americans, and I think for a lot of people around the world.

0 (6m 28s):
So it sounds like people have sort of given up here. How about our governments, be it city, state, federal?

11 (6m 35s):
I mean, we've talked about this before, but as promised in May our government is no longer funding, testing treatment and most of the other things that enabled a lot of covid protections to happen on an individual level,

15 (6m 52s):
The pandemic in is over. We still have a problem with covid. We're still doing a lot of work on it. It's, but the pandemic is over.

11 (7m 1s):
Unless your insurance is great at covering those things, or you are fine with paying out of pocket for those things, the personal protections are kind of gone and, and the sort of more institutional wide types of protections like closing schools or the things that private companies or agencies could do to reduce spread, like reverting back to a more liberal work from home policy at certain workplaces or, you know, those kinds of things are on the whole. Really we're just not seeing that happening. And in most places we're not seeing huge demand to have that happen. I mean, we are seeing in hospitals, a lot of those healthcare facilities go back to masking and that's different.

11 (7m 44s):
Healthcare is by nature a much riskier environment for the people who move around in it. So that seems like it would be sort of the first thing that I would expect to see change is more enforcement of protective measures in hospitals. But we're really just not seeing that at all on a society-wide level.

0 (8m 1s):
So it sounds like people have given up, it sounds like governments have given up. Where does that leave tracking this virus in a moment where you've got multiple surging variants?

11 (8m 13s):
Yeah, I mean, it's not a new thing, but C D C has switched to tracking basically hospitalizations and deaths, which as we know are kind of late indicators of viral trends and wastewater and you know, there are various places to look at wastewater trends. And

16 (8m 31s):
Inside this ridge, they have samples from millions of people from across the Bay area, stretching from Gilroy to San Francisco, you see here, San Jose, Palo Alto, you see over there Stanford.

11 (8m 42s):
I actually look at something called Biobot, which is a little bit easier to understand than CDC D'S read of this. It's the best real time idea that we can get of what the virus is doing. It's also not perfect in many, many ways, but it's, it's good. And hospitalizations, you know, usually lag infections by a few weeks, deaths by much longer, you know, weeks to sometimes even more than a month. But we haven't scaled up our public data gathering and communication in response to a rise in cases.

0 (9m 12s):
You've got people not caring, government's not caring, not enough data tracking and of a surge of variants. What do we know about this new one? Pirola

11 (9m 24s):
Ideal if you're the virus, right? Yeah.

0 (9m 26s):
Great news for

11 (9m 27s):
Pirola, right? Great news for viruses that wanna spread undetected. PERA is, just to be clear, it's not an official name, but the variant that it is intended to refer to is the BA 2 86 variant. So I'm just gonna keep calling it Pirola because nobody is gonna know what I'm talking about. If I say BA 2 86,

0 (9m 48s):
Who came up with this name, if not official, who came up with a casual name like Pirola?

11 (9m 52s):
Oh, just a bunch of dudes on the internet we're

17 (9m 54s):
Ranking barrels. You think this is such a good idea? I need the algorithm. Alright, I need the algorithm.

11 (10m 0s):
But in any case, it got a lot of attention upfront because it looked really different from its ancestors and it took the kind of genetic leap that Omicron had taken. And I think because of that, and because the leap appeared to be in sort of places on the Coronavirus genome that have portended concern in the past, there was a lot of concern that this was gonna be, you know, a real mover and shaker in terms of causing a lot of bad disease and spreading really easily.

18 (10m 30s):
Scientists continue to be a little more concerned about this one, even though that case count is still very low. And that's because there are so many mutations and many of them are in the spike protein, so it could make it more difficult for our immune system to recognize it.

0 (10m 45s):
Are people dying Keren? I mean, I, it sounds like the people in your life who've gotten this didn't die and I'm, I'm pretty sure none of the people in my life who Got it died. But are people dying?

11 (10m 54s):
Yeah, so we have seen an uptick in both hospitalizations and deaths with this latest rise in cases. And that's not a huge surprise. you know, we know that Covid is going to be a player in driving respiratory illnesses the way the flu is a player. The way R S V is a player,

19 (11m 10s):
R S V is a common cold virus that can be associated with severe disease in young children and older adults.

11 (11m 16s):
Yes, we have seen a rise in hospitalizations and deaths associated with covid over this time. Most people are going to have a mild illness, but this is real. I, I spoke with one doc who is a hospital epidemiologist at Tufts Medical Center in Boston, and she said that in her hospital since May, there had been maybe, I don't know, between zero and two people hospitalized with Covid at any given moment, and that's now up to six. And yes, she said some of those people have an infection with Covid that is sort of incidental to their hospitalization, meaning like they came in with a broken hip, but it also turns out they have covid. So you know, it, it may not be the cause of their hospitalization, but the, there are people who are admitted to her hospital for Covid right now, and they're not in the I C U, so they're not as sick uniformly as the same number of people might have been earlier in the pandemic, but they're hospitalized.

11 (12m 6s):
So it's, it's real.

0 (12m 14s):
More with Dr. Keren. Landman in a minute. On today explained

Fundrise (12m 34s):
Support for our show comes from Fundrise with Fundrise, investors of all sizes can invest in promising private pre I P O companies, including those working on the next chapter of AI According to Fundrise. The platform is already America's largest direct access alternative asset manager, and they just launched a brand new venture capital product that's available for all investors. It's become clear that AI has the potential to create a major shift in our world. From large language models to autonomous vehicles to disease research, AI is poised to radically alter day-to-day life. If you're an investor, you might be wondering how AI is going to impact your portfolio with fund drives, you can invest in some of the top private pre I P O companies in the world. Before it would've been virtually impossible for the average investor to put their money into these kinds of companies before they went public According to Fundrise. almost two million people have already used the service to invest. If you'd like to join them, you can visit Fundrise dot com slash T e X to get started. That's F U N D R I SS e.com/t x. All investments can lead to loss

Deleteme (13m 52s):
Support for today. Explained comes from Deleteme. Deleteme believes your personal data should be personal, but sometimes it's not. There's a lot of data breaches and phishing scams in the wrong hands. of course, your private data can be used for identity theft. Deleteme offers a way to keep your personal information personal according to Deleteme. They can identify where your data is online and they can remove it on your behalf. Sarah Frank, who works on the business side of things here at Vox, got a chance to try out Deleteme and here's how it went. I Recently had the opportunity to test out Deleteme and I was really flabbergasted. They gave me a report of more than 50 companies with my data. this wasn pretty shocking, but Deleteme made it super easy for me to remove my data from these sites. Right now you can get 20% off your Deleteme plan when you go to join Deleteme dot com slash today and use promo code today. The way to get 20% off is to go to join delete me.com/today and enter promo code today at checkout. That's join Deleteme dot com slash today. Promo code today,

0 (15m 3s):
Today explained is back with Dr. Keren Landman from Vox. Keren. It sounds like the new variant isn't a huge deal, but surging covid certainly is a problem. People die, people get really sick. Is this just a cycle that we're in? Is this just the latest cycle of the cycle?

11 (15m 19s):
I, I think we need to zoom out for a second. We're still talking about this using the language of the early pandemic. And this is a fundamentally different time with a fundamentally different virus and a fundamentally different global population. Well, like, I'm not picking on you, but you use the word surge, which a lot of people still use to talk about rising cases of covid. And it implies something, right? It implies that there's an overwhelming wave that maybe we can't cope with and that's simply not happening with covid anymore. We can cope with the waves. Now there are more people in the hospitalized, there are more people dying now, but I'm not sure that anybody would look at the numbers now and call this a surge.

11 (16m 4s):
I mean, I think, yeah, you'd call it an increase. You might call it a wave, but the, even the language that we're using is just dramatic, right? I don't think experts ever really expected covid to go away. So I think what's happening is that the virus is kind of stumbling toward endemicity and this is what that looks like. We see cases rise, we see cases fall, we see cases rise again. We see cases fall again and every time cases rise we can notice that we can attend to that. We certainly should be looking for signs that it may turn into something that's difficult for us to cope with, either on a personal or a an institutional level. But. I don't think we need to assume anymore that every time Covid goes up, we're gonna see hospitals get packed.

11 (16m 49s):
We're gonna see waves of people dying. We're gonna see a lot of unexpected stuff.

0 (16m 53s):
When you talk about endemicity, are we talking about covid becoming more like the flu? Is that what we're talking about? It becoming an endemic and not a pandemic?

11 (17m 3s):
Seasonality is a little complicated here because you know, we, there is such the a thing as a cold and flu season, it's usually fall and winter in the northern hemisphere. Covid doesn't seem to vary seasonally. It doesn't rise reliably in the fall and winter and then go down again in the summertime, right? We sometimes see bumps in the summertime and it just, it seems to more vary on a, an every few months kind of schedule. And a growing number of experts think that that is because of immunity and because of the duration of human immunity to this particular virus. It's not easily pegged to big events, big holidays, big changes in weather or other sort of seasonal things that drive whether we're indoors or outdoors.

11 (17m 50s):
It is still driven by human behavior. I don't wanna say that. Like if everybody were to mask and everybody were to stay inside respiratory viruses, including covid wouldn't all suddenly drop. They would. But in a world where most of us are out and about, very few of us are masking and taking a lot of precautions or institutions are not taking really big precautions in this environment. Seeing these things wax and wane the way they are really suggests that the way human immunity comes and goes is a bigger driver of their spread right now than our behavior is.

0 (18m 25s):
So there aren't covid seasons, but flu seasons remain and, and one seems to be around the corner. And of course getting covid during flu season is more risky for you and perhaps those around you, especially if they're immunocompromised. So, so help us understand right now what people can do if they get it. Let's do some news you can use, like does testing still work? Are all these variants still getting picked up on the old testa root?

11 (18m 50s):
Oh, absolutely. So yeah, we should definitely still try to prevent spreading it as best we can. So that means if you're getting sick, good idea to mask up around people and stay outta circulation as best you can. you know, we should try to try to prevent spreading it. If, you think you might be able to get Pax Ovid or might benefit from Pax Ovid test?

23 (19m 13s):
Pax Ovid is the first pill that can help treat covid after you've been infected. If someone is covid positive, it can reduce their risk of both hospitalization and death by a lot.

11 (19m 25s):
But yeah, I think generally if you're getting sick, try not to pass it on to other people. And that might mean masking, it might mean keeping a distance. It might mean staying home from that birthday party that you are gonna go to But I think it. It doesn't mean shutting down your life the way we shut down our lives earlier in the pandemic. And also means you should get a vaccine like the vaccine is gonna help prevent you from getting sicker than you might otherwise get in the next few months. It may not prevent you entirely from getting infected, it probably won't prevent you entirely from getting infected. But If you get infected, You won't be as sick. That's good and you probably will be less likely to pass it on. And that's also good.

0 (19m 59s):
And the vaccines are still good. Are they updated for the PERAs of the world?

11 (20m 4s):
So yeah, the F D A already this week has approved these new vaccines. The

24 (20m 8s):
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has given the go ahead for Americans to get the newest vaccine that

11 (20m 14s):
My colleague Rachel du Rose has written a great story on Vox that answers a lot of the questions about it.

25 (20m 22s):
Hi, it's Rachel here. Last night the C D C announced that they're recommending the newest covid vaccine for everyone six months or older. This vaccine targets a specific sub variant and at the time that the C D C announced that they wanted a vaccine to target the sub variant, this wasn the dominant variant. That's not the case anymore, but the dominant variants right now are descendants of this X B B line. And so it seems like this, this current new vaccine will be effective against the most prevalent variants in the US at the moment. The previous booster was a bivalent shot, which means this wasn targeting the original covid strain as well as the omicron covid strain.

25 (21m 7s):
This is a monovalent shot, which is far more similar to what we were being vaccinated with when vaccines first rolled out. The first set of vaccines we ever got against Covid. The purpose of the Covid vaccine remains to prevent severe infection and hospitalization. It doesn't necessarily protect against mild infection or infection.

0 (21m 29s):
Are we still learning things about C Ovid 19 Keren?

11 (21m 33s):
Oh my God, we're learning so many things about Covid 19 Sean, but what we're learning on a scientific level, I think, I'm not sure it's translating the way I would love to see it translate into society at large. I mean, you know, some of the interesting things that we're learning are actually about how much less at risk most people are for bad complications from Coronavirus and from covid infection. Then our behaviors would suggest, I mean, we are still acting as though a covid infection is a newsflash as though it is, you know, a reason to shut down our lives and isolate ourselves in the, you know, in the really difficult ways that we were doing very early in this pandemic where we had no tools and we have tools now, you know, everybody is getting C O V I now and almost everybody is recovering from it now with no problems.

11 (22m 41s):
It's not, I mean, we, yes, we're still seeing a little bit of new cases of long covid come after repeat infections. But I think the numbers are so, so, so much lower than the headlines would have you think. And the level of alarm remains really high when people get infected. Hospitalization, death, even long covid are now much, much less common as endpoints to infection than they were a few years ago. A lot more likely now is that you get infected, you get sick, you know, you have a mild to moderate illness and you miss a bunch of important life things.

11 (23m 21s):
you know, you curtail travel, you curtail other social activities that might be important to you. If I am in my early twenties, which unfortunately I am not, or maybe fortunately I don't know if I were in my early twenties, which for better or worse, I am not same. And I ha if I were on like day five of a covid infection and are feeling fine and we were all gathering in a bar or, you know, going to the park if it were early 2021, no question, right? I would stay home, I would tell everybody I would not participate. I would wait until day 10, then I would test and test and test. And if I were negative, then I would start seeing people.

11 (24m 5s):
Now, day five, I'm feeling fine. I'm probably not shedding virus anymore. You can go out, you can and you should go out. We can and should return to assemblance of normal life.

1 (24m 20s):
The fact

11 (24m 21s):
That we're, we are still, there's so many people still shouting that we should not be returning to normal life in any kind of way, and that we shouldn't be using the tools that we have out there to help us returning to normal life. It's a really unhelpful mindset, If, you wanna get people to ever take you seriously again, because we are gonna have to at some point, respond in a more concerned way to another pathogen. But right now, COVID is no longer that pathogen and we are allowed to evolve our strategies at the same time that the virus is evolving its strategies and we, we really, we really need to. Otherwise, we really endanger our ability to be effective public health communicators and authorities in the future.

0 (25m 12s):
Read Keren Landman and Rachel DeRose at Vox dot com. This episode of Today Explained was a joint effort produced by Si, Petros and John Ehrens. We were edited by Amina Al, mixed by David Herman and Fact-checked by Laura Bullard with help from Amanda Lewellyn. The rest of the team here is comprised of Halima Shaw, Avi Sha artsy, Haddi Ma Wadi Miles, Bryan Victoria Chamberlain, Rob Byers, Patrick Boyd, and my co-host Noel King. Our managing editor is Matthew Collette.

0 (25m 52s):
Our executive producer is Miranda Kennedy, and we occasionally use music by Breakmaster Cylinder today explained. It's distributed on the radio by W N Y C. The show is part of Vox, which is totally free. Thanks in part to contributions from our listeners. You can become a listener who contributes at Vox dot com slash give.

0 (26m 17s):
Thank you

1 (26m 43s):
Support

14 (26m 43s):
For this episode comes from Amazon Web Services. Your applications are the cornerstone of your business. So how are you staying ahead with a W Ss? You can innovate without limits. A W SS provides extensive, reliable, and secure infrastructure designed to deliver the best performance at an optimal cost. With the broadest and deepest application development capabilities at your fingertips, you can reimagine every application. Innovate without limits, learn more at go AWS slash aea,

26 (27m 23s):
Fox Creative.

27 (27m 24s):
This is advertiser content from SC Johnson.

28 (27m 28s):
From the tiniest plankton to the most enormous whale. Ocean ecosystems thrive when all parts and cycles work in harmony. Each reliant on the rest to survive. A healthy earth needs healthy oceans and healthy oceans can't thrive when overwhelmed by plastic pollution. We can't let this continue, but this is not a problem that individuals can solve on our own. I'm Zara Ava, sustainability educator and climate optimist. Throughout my studies, I've learned collective action is what really affects change. The key to helping fight the plastics crisis will be taking meaningful action at every level. Large and small consumers can limit their plastics consumption.

28 (28m 12s):
Governments can improve recycling infrastructure, and companies can find sustainable solutions to packaging and production. We are all accountable for our part in this crisis, and together we can ignite change. Learn more about how you can take collective action at sc johnson.com/action matters.