0 (1s):
On today explained, we've talked a lot about the problems with cities. Their post pandemic doom loops.

1 (7s):
As remote work pushes down property values, eventually the taxes collected from those offices and urban retail will also fall

0 (15s):
Their crime vibes. I

2 (17s):
See a lot of people just going and grabbing people's bags, hitting them. They, it's like they don't care

0 (23s):
Their fight to unshrink their shrinking populations with cash and amenities. I

3 (28s):
Had

4 (28s):
Laundry that was huge. I had laundry,

0 (30s):
Their fires, their weeded frauds, their parking dilemmas, their traffic failures. And yet most Americans live in cities and love in cities and work in cities and just want them to hashtag do better today a possibly deranged plan in California to build a city from scratch. And why it's so tempting to just start over

PhRMA (60s):
And here's your prescription I. know just the pharmacy to get this filled Who. are you A pharmacy benefit manager, A middleman your insurer uses to decide which medicines you can get, what you pay, and sometimes even which pharmacy you should go to. Why Can't I go to a pharmacy in my Neighborhood? Because I make more money. When. you go to a pharmacy I own No, one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma dot org slash middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

3 (1m 30s):
I'm John Hill. And this week on the Weeds, a growing piece of the care crisis.

5 (1m 35s):
It used to be that there could be seven people to take care of each person, and that number is going down and down and down. So that has impacts for the people who need care and has impacts for the people who are giving that care too.

3 (1m 46s):
Millions of Americans are caretaking for children and aging loved ones at the same time. Why it's difficult to bridge multiple care gaps and the policies that could fix it. Listen and subscribe

0 (2m 8s):
Today explained, I'm No Will King, my co-pilot. JK Deneen is a reporter covering housing and real estate for The San Francisco Chronicle. He's been writing about a literal who done it that started in 2018 in a rural area located between San Francisco and Sacramento. It starts with some unexpected investment.

11 (2m 31s):
This mysterious group of investors started paying well over market value in, in buying up thousands of acres of dry farmland at a time. And, and this was farmland that's suitable for wheat and barley and alfalfa and grazing of, of cattle and especially sheep. And the, the investors were, were getting increasingly aggressive.

12 (2m 56s):
These folks have used strong arm mobster techniques to try to force landowners to sell. And I'm going, come on guys. You've created a very, very bad atmospheric in Solano County.

11 (3m 11s):
So that was dividing the community. It was dividing families in some cases it made a lot of Solano County farmers, very rich. Eventually it caught the attention of two members of Congress, John Garamendi and Mike Thompson, who represent different portions of Solano County. And they were interested in it because of the fact that much of the farmland was surrounding Travis Air Force Base, which is a very important military facility. A lot of the aid going to Ukraine right now is being flown out of that airport. They were concerned with, I mean is it the Chinese who is really encircling the Air Force base

13 (3m 55s):
Since 2018, a group known as Flannery Associates has bought more than 50,000 acres of farmland near the Air Force base. Some proposals being considered to protect the farmland include more disclosure of agricultural land purchases and prohibiting foreign ownership of farms.

11 (4m 14s):
At that point, pressure was really building. It hit the media. I started writing about it and the rumors and speculation were running rampant to the point where the investor group finally felt pressured to show their face to reveal themselves.

14 (4m 34s):
After weeks of speculation, we now know who's behind a big land buy outta Northern California and what they plan to do with it.

11 (4m 40s):
It turned out they're not from China. They were not even really real estate people at all. They were in fact a bunch of very successful wealthy Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and in investors.

15 (4m 54s):
Some of those on the list include billionaire venture capitalist, Michael Moritz, the widow of Apple Co-founder Steve Jobs, billionaire businesswoman Laureen Powell Jobs, LinkedIn co-founder Reed Hoffman and Patrick and John Collison, the sibling co-founders of San Francisco based payment technology company. Stripe,

11 (5m 12s):
Some of the people that the real early investors in Google and PayPal. And that was just a shock because nobody really expected that A bunch of Silicon Valley, Palo Alto billionaires would want to buy a bunch of dry farmland in an obscure corner of Solano County, which isn't really a place that one associates with tech billionaires.

0 (5m 38s):
Okay, so tech billionaires, 50,000 acres of what is more or less farmland, it's near a military base. They finally reveal themselves because the pressure's on. The pressure's coming from farmers, ranchers, also Congress by the time it all comes to a head. And what do these people wanna do with their 50,000 acres of land?

11 (6m 3s):
Yeah, so the name of the company is called California Forever, which you know, sounds like delightful and scary at the same time. And they want to revive the California dream and build this utopian city, walkable, bikeable, densely populated, new California city, which they hope will rival the great American cities.

16 (6m 31s):
The group of investors want to build a mega city, which will offer good paying jobs, affordable housing, clean energy, sustainable infrastructure, open space, and a healthy environment.

11 (6m 41s):
They talk a lot about solar farms, they talk a lot about preserving, you know, plenty of open space, at least 10,000 acres.

15 (6m 51s):
The renderings of the proposed city look like something out of a fictional book. Streets without cars, children on bikes, people on kayaks, neighbors gathered at their local coffee shop.

11 (7m 1s):
The renderings of this futuristic California forever city doesn't show any automobiles, which is interesting. It shows a lot of people on bicycles and walking. And the images, by the way, are all AI generated. So there's like some weird things like a girl on a bicycle with who only has one foot.

0 (7m 24s):
I'm sorry, she, she, she doesn't have one foot. 'cause something bad has happened to her. No, she has one foot 'cause it's an AI rendering. Okay, good. No, it's just like, I was so worried about this. No,

11 (7m 33s):
The girl, this woman, okay, she'll be fine. Right now they are saying, you know, we wanna build a environmentally friendly live work, play sustainable Green City. They look at the great neighborhoods in America and they like row houses, they like Boston's back bay. They like parts of San Francisco, like North Beach or Noe Valley or you know, they're like the West Village in New York.

0 (8m 7s):
All of the places JK that they've modeled this city on are very nice. I like the West Village, I like the back bay, I like Noway Valley, however, I don't live there. How did local people react when they found out this was the plan to build an entirely new city?

11 (8m 24s):
I think locals are baffled. I

17 (8m 27s):
Don't know that it's realistic what they're, what they're talking about at all makes zero sense. There's no mass transit, there's no water for that.

11 (8m 36s):
You have cities like Fairfield and Vallejo and Dixon. The people there have been desperate for, especially Fairfield. They have a train station, it's the county seat. They have government jobs and courthouses and they would love to have a developer come to downtown Fairfield and build, you know, a a nice modern apartment building. They have been trying to get somebody to do that for years.

17 (9m 6s):
They could truly do a lot to help Solano County if they cared really about what's going on here. We have a lot that they could invest in and change the face of Fairfield. Even we have a whole city block down there. They're welcome to come and develop for a little project to show us what you can do.

11 (9m 25s):
So the idea that this group of strangers with unlimited resources would come into their county and not invest where they want to do, where they want to build, where they wanna develop, where they wanna revive their downtowns, but in a completely isolated, not transit friendly dry part of the county that's always been rural and and agricultural. And so obviously there, there's lots and lots of questions about that.

0 (9m 58s):
Does it seem to you like these concerns from local people are legitimate concerns or is this more northern California nimby not in my backyard. Please don't build houses here.

11 (10m 11s):
I don't think it is. Mm. you know, Sloan County is, is the, the poorest of the nine Bay Area counties. And so it's not traditional nimbyism in the sense that people wanna preserve their views or preserve their kind of low density suburban community feel. It's not really that kind of place. It's more a mix of working class towns and farms.

17 (10m 37s):
You know, I was born of this dirt and they're gonna put me in the dirt here when I die. And I said, until that time I'll be here looking at you.

11 (10m 45s):
There's two groups of people that are leading the opposition. One is residents of, of some of the cities like Fairfield. And they just object to the idea of sprawl. I mean, no matter what California forever says, you know, you're talking about urbanizing a you know, an agricultural area. The other group would be the ranchers themselves, ones that have not sold out, who refuse to sell out and who very much like ranching in Solano County.

0 (11m 16s):
How are these investors responding to concerns from the community? What are they saying when people throw all this at them?

11 (11m 24s):
A lot of the criticism comes from the fact that it was secret for so long and they're, they're saying, look, we understand you're angry. Please yell at us. We expected that, but we had to do it that way. We had to keep it secret or else the prices of the land would've been driven up even more than they already were. We

18 (11m 42s):
Felt very confident that we could build an amazing project out there and we had to assemble a large land holding. And in order to do that we had to be quiet about the plans so that we didn't have reckless speculation and, and and tracked home developers coming into the area

11 (11m 56s):
Given the California forever. Folks the benefit of the doubt. They are a group of people that have created tens and tens and thousands of jobs throughout the Bay Area and they know firsthand how difficult it is for workers to afford housing in the Bay Area. And so some of them have spent quite a bit of money investing in sort of the YIMBY movement, the yes in my backyard movement and trying to make it easier, faster, and cheaper to build housing in the Bay Area. They have run into roadblocks in Silicon Valley in San Francisco where there is so much opposition to housing

19 (12m 39s):
And this report from the governor's office is calling out San Francisco for making things very difficult for people trying to create more housing. So far this year San Francisco has permitted less than one home per day.

11 (12m 50s):
And so I think giving them the benefit of the doubt, there is an honest desire to create a new city that combines maybe the best of American cities, but is also affordable.

0 (13m 4s):
Okay, so this is not for Reen Powell jobs. She does not wanna live in this city. This is for the the people.

11 (13m 12s):
Yes. I think the image that they are propagating is one of, you know, middle class mixed income community.

0 (13m 21s):
Do you think this is really going to happen? Do you think this city is really gonna get built?

11 (13m 24s):
The fact that these people have already spent a billion dollars leads you to believe that they're very serious about it, they're rich, but maybe not rich enough to throw away that kind of money. So they're taking this very seriously. Their first big test will be in November of next year when they go before the voters of Solano County to try to get basically permission to build this city in order to go forward. And so they are going to be spending a lot of money over the next year to try to build community support and we'll see they got off to a very bad start. But there is a lot that they could do to win people over.

11 (14m 8s):
you know, once they start, you know, building gyms and playgrounds and libraries and health clinic, I mean the amount of money that they have already spent would lead you to believe that they would not have a problem with spending lavishly to make lives of some of the people in Solano County better in order to win support.

0 (14m 39s):
JK Deneen of The San Francisco Chronicle ahead, new City Fever

PhRMA (14m 48s):
And here's your prescription I know just the pharmacy to get this filled Who. are you A pharmacy benefit manager, A middleman your insurer uses to decide which medicines you can get, what you pay, and sometimes even which pharmacy you should go to. Why can't I go to a pharmacy in my neighborhood? Because I make more money. When. you go to a pharmacy I own, No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma dot org slash middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

Blame Capitalism (15m 21s):
Hi, I'm Avishay Artsy and I'm one of the people whose names you hear in the credits of today explained. I helped produce our recent series Blame Capitalism. We got into how companies became solely focused on profit, how the bank bailout launched populist movements on the left and the right and how amidst the climate crisis and growing inequality, many of us lost faith in capitalism's ability to meet our basic needs. If you appreciate these kinds of deeply nerdy, thoroughly researched and rigorously fact-checked conversations, then please support our work at Vox dot com slash give. And thank you.

7 (16m 0s):
What about us?

20 (16m 2s):
We'll always have today's

10 (16m 3s):
Explain.

5 (16m 4s):
I'm Sarah Moser, I'm a professor of urban geography at McGill University and I conduct research on new cities currently being built from scratch in Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Africa. So I examined the global phenomenon of New city building as well as individual new city projects. Have

0 (16m 24s):
You heard about this initiative in California?

5 (16m 27s):
I have. This is pretty exciting news for someone in my line of work. Ha, I've been following the news quite diligently.

0 (16m 37s):
What do you think as a researcher when you see this?

5 (16m 40s):
I'm disturbed by it. I'm disturbed by the secrecy and the scheming, all of which has, you know, occurred behind closed doors. I'm concerned that these are billionaires behaving in a way that's anti-democratic and actually more in line with Saudi princes than what you'd expect from citizens in a democracy. It seems like a big money maker. If these secretive billionaires and tech bros are able to change the zoning from agricultural to urban, the land will automatically quadruple in value or more. And so I'm skeptical that anything will be built at all.

5 (17m 22s):
I mean, they could just sell the land, make their millions, and then just sell it off to a developer and the developer could just make suburbs. There's nothing legally binding them to the plan that they've advertised to date.

0 (17m 35s):
You said your research focuses on three areas of the world, which means in those three areas of the world there's also a push to build new cities. Is that right? This is happening elsewhere?

5 (17m 47s):
Yeah, this is kind of a global phenomenon right now there are approximately 200 new cities being built from scratch right now in about 45 to 50 countries.

21 (17m 60s):
Jakarta is southeast Asia's biggest capital and it is also the world's fastest sinking city. But the Indonesian government has a solution building a new capital from scratch.

22 (18m 11s):
It's a 2.5 million person, new metropolis that's gonna be built on the border of Hong Kong and Shenzhen. The Egyptian government are now investing 58 billion US dollars in constructing the country's entire capital again from scratch.

5 (18m 27s):
It's very aspirational for emerging economies, which maybe have wealth but not infrastructure. So building a new city is often seen as a way to leapfrog an economy from oil, from manufacturing, from agriculture into new types of economies. New cities are also intended to address all sorts of urban challenges facing cities around the world. Congestion, overcrowding, poor infrastructure, a lack of housing, all of this. So they're really appealing to a lot of countries right now. One of my favorite projects that is endlessly fascinating is Forest City.

5 (19m 11s):
This is a project being built by China's top property developer in the ocean on artificial land off the coast of Malaysia. So the projects intended for about 700,000 residents and it's basically an investment vehicle for Chinese investors, particularly investors who maybe can't get into the market in London or you know, Australia or Vancouver. They're going to secondary markets like Malaysia or Thailand or Cambodia to buy investment condos

24 (19m 41s):
With many properties bought as investments. There are concerns about low occupancy rates. For now the sound of silence fills the air.

5 (19m 50s):
Another project I think is really intriguing is the line in Saudi Arabia. This is an urban mega development that is unprecedented in scale and budget and ambition. It's basically a linear city that's 170 kilometers long in one single skyscraper. So the skyscraper is 200 meters wide, 500 meters tall and 170 kilometers long. And so 9 million people are supposed to fit into this long, endless skyscraper.

23 (20m 26s):
Residents have access to all their daily needs within five minute walk neighborhoods. And the line's infrastructure makes it possible to travel end to end in 20 minutes with no need for cars resulting in zero carbon emissions.

5 (20m 41s):
It's not likely to happen as they claim it's gonna happen because it would require the entire global production of steel working simultaneously to build this project. It would take the entire global production of mirror glass to create this project. The entire project is supposed to be covered in mirror glass.

25 (21m 0s):
This futuristic city that he, he is planning to invest half a trillion dollar in it. What if it goes wrong? It could bankrupt the country.

5 (21m 9s):
So we'll see what happens. It's at the very early stages they're moving earth around right now.

26 (21m 14s):
It sounds like a total white elephant project to a lot of people. And it may very well be that these

5 (21m 21s):
Are really high risk projects, you know, like these are like startups, they're like startup cities and as we know, startups fail all the time. But it's one thing to kind of have your little garage startup fail. It's another thing to dedicate land and water to projects that are very risky. So I see a lot of red flags.

0 (21m 41s):
What are some of the mistakes that get made? What, what commonly happens or commonly enough for you to say there's a reason that we're also cautious about brand new cities from scratch?

5 (21m 53s):
Well, the money, it's really hard to get a steady stream of money that we'll see a project through from the beginning to the end. These things take time. Investors often don't have the patience to wait for several decades while they lay the foundations for the city before they can start building buildings, they have to build a sewage system and all sorts of unsexy things, right? There's also politics. Politics can change. A new political party can come into power and not feel invested in these projects at all. Like the capital city of Malaysia is called Praia, and that's a master plan city started in the 1990s and you have to basically get a, a constitutional Amendment to change anything about the master plan.

5 (22m 36s):
It's really set in stone, but market forces are kind of invisible there. Like we, you can't change anything in the city based on market forces. Like if people wanna live in a certain area, you can't densify without a Parliamentary kind of debate. So yeah, I mean I would say it needs to be flexible but not too flexible because the next political party might completely end the project.

0 (23m 1s):
It's very tempting if you live in an American city and you're dealing with really high housing costs, you're dealing with in a lot of cases really bad infrastructure, it's really tempting to think that starting over from scratch is the best idea. If that's not it, if it just is too perilous and it tends to not end well, what is a better solution?

5 (23m 26s):
You know, there are all sorts of great solutions happening right now in the US and abroad. There's initiatives to get rid of single family home zoning that, you know, everyone knows these sort of sprawling, endless suburbs eat up so much land if they allowed duplexes or plexes or condominiums to be built on that land. We actually don't have a shortage of land. So it's very conservative zoning policies that's leaving us in this bind. I think we need to find ways to put money into the purse of the government. Billionaires have been very successful over the past decades in avoiding paying their fair share of tax and that's kind of starving the public purse.

5 (24m 12s):
So some of the people involved in this, some of the venture capitalists involved in this California project have actively campaigned against even modest tax increases for billionaires. And that to me is really disturbing. And I think one of the reasons why our infrastructure is so bad, There's no Magic solution to creating good cities. It involves all citizens getting together, everybody saying their piece incrementally working towards solutions right now. We need housing, we need it desperately and urgently and we need more radical policy that can fix that. I don't think we need new cities.

5 (24m 52s):
That adds a lot of complication and opportunities for rich people to just make money. I don't think it's gonna address the housing crisis in California. We just need policy changes and that is hard unsexy work and somebody needs to do that. And I think collectively we can get there.

0 (25m 18s):
That was Sarah Moser. She runs the New Cities Lab at McGill. Today's episode was produced by Abishai Artsy. It was edited by Matthew Collette based in the Bay Area. Matthew knows nothing about this project. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard. Patrick Boyd is our engineer. I'm Noel King and this is today explained.