0 (0s):
Not long ago I came across a New York Times article about childcare that featured one of the most darkly funny charts I have ever seen. I don't usually find humor in charts, but this is a chart of how much rich countries spend on childcare on making sure families have it. Now, there are only rich countries on the chart, and Norway leads, it spends almost 30 grand a year per child on childcare. Iceland, Finland, Denmark, all spend over 20 K per kid. And it's not just European countries on there. Israel, Chile, New Zealand, Oz, friend of the show Hungary is down near the bottom. It spends a little over 7,000 a year per kid. And at the very bottom United States V spends $500 per year.

0 (45s):
Her child. The state of childcare is bad and you know that. But what if I were to tell you that an American state in a very low key way may have figured out a way to fix the problem? I am about to tell you that Stay tuned. Coming up on today, explained support for the show comes from into the mix. A Ben and Jerry's podcast about joy and justice produced with Vox Creative. More than four and a half million people in the US cannot vote because they have a felony conviction. Season two of into the mix is the story of Desmond Meat who went to prison and then went on to lead the largest expansion of voting rights in Florida. Since the Voting Rights Act into the mix, season two is out now.

1 (1m 23s):
The Coca-Cola company, Keurig, Dr. Pepper and PepsiCo are bringing consumers more choices with less sugar than ever before. In fact, nearly 60% of beverages sold contain zero sugar. Visit balance us.org to learn more

2 (1m 40s):
Today. Explained

0 (1m 42s):
Now

3 (1m 43s):
You say I'm Francis.

0 (1m 49s):
Good job. It's today explained. I'm Noelle King. Melissa McGarrity is a mom in New Mexico.

5 (1m 55s):
I had my first daughter, I was bringing her to work with me just fine because my boss understood childcare was not an affordable option at all, especially making like $10 an hour.

0 (2m 6s):
Parents have learned to deal with the expense and the shortages. But about a decade ago, some residents of New Mexico started trying to change that they wanted the state to fund early childhood education, which includes childcare. Ellie Kuna was one of the organizers. My name is, and I live. I have raised my family in New Mexico. Ellie told me that childcare is especially difficult to find in New Mexico. You have a lot of like rural areas that do not have access to childcare at all. And in the big cities that is in Las Cruces, Santa Fe and Albuquerque where you have access to shelter, you are in waiting list.

0 (2m 48s):
This fight started like over 10 years ago. The speaker of the house, Javier Martinez, at the same time with a bunch of other community based organization over a decade ago, envisioning how it would look like for new Mexicans to have a high quality, accessible, and free childcare for all our families.

6 (3m 13s):
We need to keep building the services and the programs that new Mexicans sorely need and desperately want. Early childhood education, inclusive of pre-k, childcare, home visitation, and all of the other services that children need. Prenatal all the way to the age of five.

0 (3m 28s):
And that's when the idea of tapping to the savings of the state will make it possible.

6 (3m 35s):
Access to quality early childhood education is the transformative strategy.

0 (3m 41s):
So I joined the fight as a young parent, educating, activating for around two years to ensure our community have access to free healthcare. And then in 2022, new Mexico's governor, Democrat, Michelle Lujan Grisham used federal pandemic assistance to pay childcare providers more. She also expanded the number of families eligible for free childcare.

7 (4m 7s):
The number of families who qualify is nearly doubled. In today's announcement, the governor's office estimated that more than 30,000 families will qualify for this program. We say

8 (4m 17s):
To the rest of the world, our families deserve every bit of support. They are remarkable and resilient and childcare should be

0 (4m 27s):
Free. But that funding was temporary. New Mexico needed a way to make it permanent. The first thing is that we knew and identify that pocket of money that New Mexico can tap and ensure that that's not gonna increase our taxes because we are all majority working families. So we ensure that there is the land grant permanent school fund, and then the state can tap on those savings to invest in certain areas of development of the state. So this is what we identified that funding. The land grant that Ellie mentioned is something unique to New Mexico.

0 (5m 8s):
When New Mexico become part of the state. Since 1912, this has become the trust fund. It's a trust fund that comes from two resources, oil and gas profits and interests.

9 (5m 19s):
Despite a global price drop in oil and gas, new Mexico's production brought in 2.8 billion, representing almost a third of our state's. Total budget. Most of that money goes toward public education.

0 (5m 32s):
Right now it has around $26 billion and 5% of this amount of money goes to public school, hospitals and universities. Every year, 11% of the grow of this fund is continue increasing. So this means that there is a unlimited savings account that we have because we are investing this money in the stock exchange. And the best way to use this money in New Mexico is investing them back to our communities and to our children's.

0 (6m 12s):
So Ellie and others started knocking on doors all over the state. We're talking about like colonials near to the border. We're talking about rural areas, big cities, all these folks that were already early childhood educators or young families that will benefit by these constitutional amendment. They took a role and they start, like I saying, you know what, I want my kids to have the opportunity to have a better quality of life. And

10 (6m 43s):
That means so much for our family. That means being able to, you know, potentially save for a home, to afford better healthcare, to save for college, and even just an emergency bond.

0 (6m 57s):
So that was something that we mobilized over half a million of doors. We sent three millions of text messages and we did over 300,000 mailers. And this was incredible. And the community fell in power there. Stories were aligned to what we see at the doors. There was this connection of wanting something better for their children. We asked them about their own experience.

11 (7m 29s):
Well I would prefer my, you know, younger child to be in a setting where he's able to have social skills and play with other peers and learn different building blocks and things like that. But I'm a full-time student right now and I'm working part-time as well. There's just, there's no

0 (7m 47s):
Way their own experience with education, their own experience with their families and how they imagine a place where we don't see a scarcity, but they see everything in abundance. An opportunity for us to decide what we wanna do with our money. This is your money and this money can go directly to working families that looks like you. And that was a moment that really changed a lot of the relationship and the conversation that we were having at the doors. So while you were knocking on doors, did you meet anyone who told you a story that you, that you found it difficult to forget?

0 (8m 27s):
Like what's a, what's a door that you knocked on and you came away thinking, wow, what I heard there was really interesting. I was in Soland Park is a border town and in Songland Park is highly Latino but also highly bilingual. And when I was door knocking in Songland Park, there was one of the family, John family that opened up and they even give us water and they were having a, like a really nice conversation. They say, I wish I could have had this opportunity when I was younger, when I arrived and when we were there and in Songland Park, I felt like a really compelling because at that moment I was pregnant door knocking.

0 (9m 17s):
And then I say, I want that also for my kid and for myself. I, that's the reason why I am door knocking, in fact, because I do believe like any other woman, hardworking woman that is right now, caring alive, it deserve to have the certainty that their kid is gonna have everything. And beyond that, we dream. And this is the first step. And so this is a 10 year effort to get this onto the ballot so that the people of New Mexico can vote. Are we gonna spend our land grant money on free childcare? It does get onto the ballot. Yes, yes. He goes into the ballot in 2022 and then New Mexicans vote and what happens?

0 (10m 3s):
Historical victory.

8 (10m 5s):
We're gonna fully fund childcare for every new Mexican. We're gonna keep getting world class educators, the pay and support they need to do the jobs they love.

0 (10m 18s):
Over 70% of new Mexicans in favor, never again in the history of New Mexico. A valid question asking about education and early childhood education has performed this high. This means that 70% of new Mexicans in 2022 say, yes, we want this, we deserve better. We wanna do this for all children and we wanna juice like this or money. So this was something historical in New Mexico,

6 (10m 55s):
140 million for early childhood education and 90 million for public schools in general. Now as mentioned, this is a big deal. This amendment would make New Mexico the first state in the country to say early childhood education is a constitutional right.

0 (11m 11s):
We gonna be hiring more teachers and raising the teacher's salaries in that way. We provide also a high quality childcare services. We will be expanding early childhood services like home visiting, high quality childcare and pre-kindergarten all across the state. We also provide like a, a high quality supplying programming with technology and mental health services for a lot of these centers. And this is the opportunity for us to really ensure that families working families not only have access to early childhood services, but they have access for free.

0 (11m 60s):
Ellie, this constitutional amendment, as you said, passed by a big majority around 70% and you almost sound astonished at how well it worked. Do you think that other states in America, maybe states that don't have land grants but do get money from from other sources could make this work? Do you think this is something that could only be done in New Mexico? No, I believe this is something that we can get it done all across the nation and I think this is something that is needed all across the nation. The Land Grand Permanent fund is just a way to put a title to a saving account and a revenue that the state has.

0 (12m 39s):
Every single state has a revenue for the big industries. It can be from energy production, it can be from cinematography, even cannabis, all these different industries, revenue. Revenue can be used to really invest in our education and early childhood education.

6 (13m 4s):
Coming up, what New Mexico's success could or could not mean for the rest of the country

Canva (13m 34s):
Support for today? Explain comes from Canva for teams. Canva believes that great design is all around us. I recently learned that Canva is particularly taken with the $1 bill, which was released in 1963 and hasn't changed since. The people at Canva. Also like Harry Beck's map of the London Underground system because it uses bright colors. I had no idea. And it prioritizes legibility over geographical accuracy, which sounds dicey to me, but the people at can beloved. Now, one thing you might not know about me, graphic design is my passion. It's a joke, it's an old joke. But if you wanna make great design easy, whether or not you are an artistic luminary such as myself, you might wanna check out Canva for Teams. Canva for Teams is a design platform that makes it easy for anyone to create stunning content. Whether you need to build a quality presentation, get your new website off the ground, or craft the perfect post across every social channel. Canva for Teams has got you covered. They have templates, they have fonts, they have graphics, they keep brand consistency in mind. So you can maintain your aesthetic, very important and use your bespoke logos in design language across everything you build. Do you wanna collaborate with Canva for teams? Right now you can get a free 45 day extended trial if you go to canva.me/explained, that's c a nva me slash explained for a free 45 day extended trial. Canva me slash explained.

13 (15m 7s):
Hello, I'm Eli Patel, the editor-in-Chief of the Verge and host of Decoder, a business podcast where I interview CEOs who have big ideas, the problems that come from those ideas and how they make decisions. It is also surprisingly about org charts. It comes up a lot. We're launching a new limited series that we're calling the centennial series, where I talk to CEOs of companies that are over 100 years old like Xerox, Barnes and Noble and more. There's no a hundred year old company that's without its struggles and it's been fascinating to talk to these CEOs about which parts of these companies history are important in which parts they can let go. A little spoiler for you, if a company's over a hundred years old, there's a lot of drama to talk about.

13 (15m 48s):
It's been a good time. You can listen to the centennial series, right and the decoder feed. New episodes of Decoder are out on Tuesday and the Centennial series is out on Thursdays. Check it out. We think you're really gonna like it. You can get it wherever you get your podcasts.

14 (16m 8s):
Our children are more capable of retaining and absorbing information than we are, yet we insist on treating them like adorable little

15 (16m 14s):
Morons. My name is Dan Warry and I am the senior director of Early Learning at the Hunt Institute. We are an education policy resource to the nation's governors and state lawmakers founded by Jim Hunt, who is the four term governor of North Carolina. What

0 (16m 29s):
Do you think about what has happened in New Mexico? The state is essentially guaranteeing early child education to every resident. How big a deal is this?

15 (16m 38s):
From our national vantage point right now New Mexico is really leading, but also providing a model for the rest of the nation in terms of what it's doing to support childcare. So very exciting. And while there are some aspects of the constitutional amendment that maybe make it a little more challenging, not every state has the natural resources, for example, that are helping to fund that in New Mexico. I think we have found in other states that where there's a will, there's a way, and they put together a very compelling model for how to support young children and families.

0 (17m 11s):
Some people would point out that we wouldn't necessarily expect a state like New Mexico to be a leader in this. Are we missing something about New Mexico specifically when we make that kind of assumption?

15 (17m 22s):
The progress that New Mexico has made has been born of some very specific needs for a number of years, including 2022. New Mexico was ranked 50th in the nation in measures of child wellbeing. And so it's for a reason that Governor Lujan Grisham and the legislature have really decided to make this a priority.

8 (17m 42s):
We're gonna get to universal early childhood education. We said we wanted 285 million in five years. Well, you know, I just just said I was impatient. Let's see if we can't get to Universal, Dominic, I want it in three years.

15 (17m 54s):
I think it is safe to assume that we're gonna see those rankings change and, and likely, pretty dramatically in, in short order.

0 (18m 0s):
So the thing that New Mexico has, as you know, as we all know working in its favor, is that it has money from oil and gas revenues to make up for a lack of federal funding once the American Rescue plan funds are gone. Okay, good for New Mexico, right? But what about Delaware? What about Maine? What about Alaska? What about California? How likely is it that other states could pull off something like New Mexico has if they don't have oil and gas revenue?

15 (18m 25s):
What we're seeing across the country right now is that other states are finding their own ways of creating dedicated revenue sources for early childhood voters in Colorado passed a ballot initiative to create a new tax on tobacco and vaping products.

16 (18m 43s):
A ballot measure aimed at driving down tobacco use and teen vaping while also funding preschool across the

15 (18m 48s):
State. Louisiana has looked to sports betting. You know, the city of Philadelphia has taxed sugary beverages

17 (18m 55s):
To make pre-kindergarten available to all three and four year olds. Philadelphia's mayor has proposed a soda tax that requires beverage distributors to pay 3 cents for every ounce of sugary drink sold in the city.

15 (19m 8s):
That is evidence that across the country that this is an important need and that when communities and states come together and, and really put their minds to it, you know, there are ways it, it may not be through oil and gas revenues, but, but there are ways to advance this topic in this conversation. In the, in the states,

0 (19m 28s):
The pandemic did offer Americans a lot in the way of federal funds that hadn't previously been there. When it came to funds that were specifically allocated for childcare to improve it. What did the federal government come up with

15 (19m 42s):
In a number of different tranches of money? B You know, beginning with the Cares Act and sort of concluding with the American Rescue Plan Act, Congress has made available billions of dollars to the states designed to help to stabilize the, the childcare industry. And ultimately that's what we have seen is, you know, the bulk of that money has gone really to two things. Grants to childcare providers to help stabilize and help to keep their doors open.

18 (20m 11s):
39 billion that will go to states and tribes and territories. These funds will help childcare centers and family childcare providers to reopen or stay open by helping to cover rent or mortgage payments, utility and insurance payments. The

15 (20m 31s):
Other thing that states have done to varying degrees of success candidly, is try to expand access for families. So dedicated some of that money for childcare subsidies to make the service even more available to to children.

18 (20m 47s):
It gives states enough funding to provide over 800,000 families with subsidies to pay for childcare.

15 (20m 55s):
The idea that states can invest in access alone has sometimes been a little bit stymied by the fact that there, there may not well be a, a workforce available to staff these classrooms. The individuals who would otherwise be working in these childcare settings have many more opportunities in front of them and frankly may have opportunity to make not only more, but substantially more working in a, in a fast food restaurant

19 (21m 23s):
Who wants to come into this field right now. Like no way when you're seeing signs at Wawa, we'll pay you $15, $17 an hour. I don't have to worry about children who need extra love, extra attention who would come here? Honestly,

15 (21m 37s):
When states where the minimum wage or where childcare providers may be making $10 an hour or $11 an hour, it may be not a hard choice in terms of how they choose to take care of their families.

0 (21m 49s):
The American rescue plan money, the federal funding, some of which went to childcare, it will run out. What happens at that point

15 (21m 56s):
For about a year or so, particularly as Congress was debating, you know, what was called the build back better proposal from the Biden administration.

20 (22m 4s):
So the average two-parent family with two young kid spends 26% of their income on childcare every year. My build back better plan's gonna change that.

15 (22m 15s):
We saw states take sort of a wait and see approach, right? They were expecting the possibility that there was gonna be this large infusion, a historic infusion frankly, of federal funds around childcare and, and pre-K. And so now that build back better is off the table and that we have a divided congress.

21 (22m 33s):
Now, I think that the bill represents a spending taxation and borrowing orgy that we don't need. But I understand my democratic colleagues disagree.

15 (22m 47s):
My observation is that we have states right now that have come to the conclusion that likely there is no one coming to save them on this topic. And so we're seeing, you know, really rapid and aggressive efforts on the parts of states to figure out how they're gonna step in and, and fill that void in the absence of action from either congress and or state legislatures. You know, we are in, in serious peril as these dollars run out of seeing large parts of the childcare sector simply collapse and go out of business. So I think it really is an imperative for policy makers to be thinking about this right now.

0 (23m 25s):
I used to cover economics and one thing that economists will tell you is that if there is a market for something and there are people who can pay for that thing, that thing will exist. And what is constantly puzzling about childcare is that there are millions of people who need it. They can pay for it, they are willing to pay for it, and yet, yet, there never seems to be enough of it. Is there some way in which childcare is not a regular industry and this is a situation where government funding is just going to have to be necessary? Or is there a way to make this business, this industry economically sound economically makes sense?

0 (24m 6s):
We've got a service, you guys want it, we're gonna decide on a fair price. We'll have enough. There you go.

15 (24m 11s):
The answer to that depends very much on your perspective on what childcare even is. Childcare ultimately is right now sort of a broken economic model. We, you know, we talk about it as like a broken three legged stool in which parents are paying more for childcare than they would pay for their mortgages or even for in-state college. Tuition providers on the other hand are, are generally squeaking by on kind of the narrowest of profit margins. And the whole thing is being sort of subsidized and and balanced on the backs of a low income workforce that is comprised primarily of, of women.

15 (24m 52s):
We've got decades of brain science that indicate that the, you know, the verse three years of life in the period from prenatal to age three in particular are this uniquely consequential period of human development during which the, the fundamental architecture of the brain is wired in ways that will either support or hinder the long-term success of children both academically and in life. And so, you know, if you look at childcare less as sort of an opportunity simply to ensure the physical safety of children while their parents are off at work and more as a setting in which we are developing the human capital that will drive this nation's future and determine the success of the children enrolled, then that's a very different proposition and it becomes an even more costly service to provide.

15 (25m 47s):
It is, in the long term, absolutely critical that you know the nation increase public funding for, for childcare, recognizing that it is an education service. It is a public good.

0 (26m 5s):
Today's show is produced by Victoria Chamberlain and edited by Amad. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard. It was engineered by Paul Robert Mounty and Patrick Boyd. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.

23 (26m 46s):
Most of the time we talk about tech in terms of a handful of gigantic companies like Google, meta and Apple. But some of the most interesting stuff we find online is the product of a single person. When you're working on your own, I think there's this beauty of being able to come up with an idea and then implement it. Then in that moment, you don't have to have permission from someone else. There's no red Tape in the Vercast series, solo acts. We'll get to know these people, the tech they use to get stuff done and the obstacles they face trying to compete with the giants. Some people that I talk to and my friends are like, no, your competitors are Zuckerberg and Musk. Like, aren't you kind of like afraid of that? Every Monday our friend Ashley Escada will be curating and hosting these interviews and sharing with us what she's learned.

23 (27m 27s):
I Can't believe the Mick McRib locator was originally a tornado locator, right? Pretty wild. Listen to our solo acts mini-series now in The Verge Feed anywhere you find podcasts.

WashingtonWise (27m 42s):
Support for this podcast comes from Washington Wise, an original podcast from Charles Schwab. Decisions Made in Washington affect your portfolio and your money every day. But what policy changes should investors be watching Washington Wise is an original podcast for investors from Charles Schwab. The show unpacks the stories making news in Washington and how they may affect your finances and investments. Listen today@schwab.com slash Washington wise, that's schwab.com/washington wise.