1 (3s):
Nikki Haley, former governor of South Carolina, former ambassador to the United Nations is running for president on a platform of generational change. The 51 year old Haley took the stage in Charleston today to survivors 1982, banger Eye of the Tiger, and aimed fire at our elderly statesmen and women.

2 (22s):
We'll have term limits for Congress and mandatory mental competency tests for politicians. Over 75 years old,

1 (31s):
Haley famously has never lost a political election.

2 (34s):
The stakes are nothing less than our survival, and you and I in every American is being summoned to bold action. And so I have an announcement to make

1 (47s):
This announcement makes for the first leading Republican to challenge Donald Trump in 2024. And today, on today explained, we will ask what has Nikki Haley started? It's coming up, it's today explained. I'm Noelle King. Jennifer Barry Haws is a reporter with ProPublica. She also worked for the Post and Courier newspaper out of Charleston, South Carolina for 24 years. And so she is very familiar with Nikki Haley and she says, of Haley's run,

3 (1m 20s):
I think we should take her very seriously. She's not someone who would have jumped into the race if she didn't see a really clear path to winning. And also just having watched her for, you know, better part of two decades now, she has won every race that she got into.

2 (1m 37s):
I love surprising people. I love letting them know what I'm capable of and I love challenging myself to prove to them so that they can be proud.

3 (1m 45s):
She's not somebody who gets off her talking points easily. She's very practiced and disciplined on staying on her message. And she also knows how to stand out as a woman without making that the caused is your, you

4 (2m 3s):
Talk about what you call the A word ambition and you actually call yourself something different, something that starts with the letter B

2 (2m 12s):
Badass.

3 (2m 13s):
So she plays that role just enough, I think to appeal particularly to women without presenting herself as the woman candidate.

2 (2m 24s):
When people refer to it as ambitious, I've heard that all my life, she's so ambitious. No, I'm passionate. I love what I do, I throw myself into it. So I prefer badass.

1 (2m 35s):
What is Nikki Haley's origin story?

3 (2m 40s):
So her parents moved to a small town in South Carolina called Bamberg in 1969. They are both from India. Bamberg is a rural community. It was just around the time of desegregation. Her father was a college professor who took a job job at Vorhees College, which is a small, historically black college in an adjoining or nearby rural town. So here comes a family that is practicing the Sikh faith. They arrive in this town that is still pretty divided by black and white lines of segregation. And at first it was very difficult for her.

3 (3m 21s):
She tells stories about feeling very much like an outsider.

2 (3m 27s):
We weren't white enough to be white. We weren't black enough to be black. We were the only Indian family. My father wore a turban, he still does to this day. My mom at the time wore aari. And I remember we would get teased and I would lead the playground and come home. And I remember my mom would always say, your job is not to show them how you're different. Your job is to show them how you're similar.

3 (3m 51s):
She describes this slow process of being accepted into the school, but for a long time feeling very much as she puts it like a brown girl and a black and white world. And so that was her introduction, you know, to life. Her family was very close and eventually became part of the white community in this town of Bamberg. She went to Clemson University, she met her future husband there, did ultimately convert to Christianity, became an accountant herself and you know, really made all of the right moves to jump into politics in South Carolina.

1 (4m 27s):
I, and it seems like much of the rest of the country became really interested in Nikki Haley. In 2015, after a white man killed nine black church goers in Charleston. Until that point, South Carolina had flown a confederate flag above its State house and then Nikki Haley decided it had to come down. Tell me what happened there.

3 (4m 47s):
A number of years before the church shooting, the flag flew over the State House dome and there was a compromise to bring it down and fly it out front. So at the time of the church shooting, the flag flew in front of the State House. There was obviously a a a time period of just tremendous grief, and Haley went to all nine of the funerals. She was very present and visible as sort of this mourner in she,

2 (5m 15s):
We woke up today and the heart and soul of South Carolina was broken.

3 (5m 21s):
She said, for instance, things like, you know, this happened on my watch, but our state is better than this. We're not going to riot and, and have violence. But very soon after there became pressure for her to call for removing the flag from the State House. And that was a very dicey, politically wrought moment because the last governor, Republican governor who'd led the charge for that was not reelected. But I think for Haley, she saw that there really was not another option. She initially said things like that she didn't feel pressure to bring the flag down before because business leaders had not really had it top of mind.

3 (6m 2s):
But after the shooting that changed, you know, Dylan Roof had taken all of these photographs of himself holding a confederate flag and he had a, an emblem of one on his license plate. So she was presented with this decision, which to my mind, she really had no decision because at that point to stand and say no, we're keeping the flag. Despite what white supremacists like Dylann Roof think it symbolizes would've really been a very untenable position for her.

2 (6m 34s):
Today we are here in a moment of unity in our state without ill will to say it's time to move the flag from the capitol grounds.

1 (6m 44s):
Alright, so that was 2015 and then by 2016, Donald Trump is the Republican party's standard. Bear added Nikki Haley feel about Donald Trump. Early on

3 (6m 55s):
She was not a supporter. You know, she, she really criticized him. And one of the things that I thought stood out that might be interesting now moving forward, watching how she handles things was one thing she called him out for was just the tenor of his communications, the tenor of his speech. In

4 (7m 13s):
2016, she campaigned for Florida Senator Marco Rubio and against Donald Trump. When candidate Trump tweeted back, the people of South Carolina are embarrassed by Nikki Haley, she replied with the withering put down beloved by southern women, bless your heart.

3 (7m 31s):
And she really promoted the idea that that political speech should remain, you know, civil and in South Carolina. There's still a lot of importance placed on civil communications.

2 (7m 45s):
I have always kicked with a smile

3 (7m 47s):
When it became publicly very different was when, you know, he was in discussions with her about her becoming the UN ambassador

1 (7m 55s):
And Donald Trump did tap her to become ambassador to the United Nations. Niah Haley at that point didn't have what we might classically call diplomatic experience. How did she do at that

3 (8m 6s):
Job from watching it here in South Carolina? My impression was that she was given very high marks for her performance overall. Especially as someone who wasn't expected to go in and really know what she was doing. I think she was really proud of the way that she handled that job and the fact that she was able to operate with, with a considerable amount of independence from Trump. And

2 (8m 28s):
I said, well I'm not gonna be a wallflower or a talking head. I need to be able to say what I think. And he said, Nikki, that's exactly why I want you to do this. And he was true to his word from the first day to the last day.

3 (8m 38s):
I think she was also proud that she was able to position herself as, as a woman operating in this field, in this, in this realm with independence and not just taking direction from from him. Which isn't to say she wasn't taking direction from him, but I think she felt like she was, was able to present herself as her own, as her own person capable of doing the job. She

1 (9m 1s):
Left that job in 2018. And what has she been up to since,

3 (9m 5s):
Since Haley left the ambassadorship, she has been campaigning around the country building her personal brand. It's worth noting that she initially said she was not going to run against former President Trump. If he decided to run, I

2 (9m 18s):
Would not run if President Trump ran.

3 (9m 21s):
And over the course of the past couple years, she has told us that she was thinking about it, pondering it, deciding what to do. And in the meantime she's been going around the country campaigning for candidates. Do

1 (9m 33s):
We know what her relationship with Trump is like right

3 (9m 36s):
Now? She apparently called him to let him know that she was going to announce she was running. He basically, you know, said you, do you think

5 (9m 44s):
Haley called me the other day to talk to me, talk to her for a little while, but I said, look, you know, go by your heart if you wanna run.

3 (9m 51s):
It seems as if maybe it's not quite as hostile, if not warm and fuzzy, but you know, he didn't jump onto Twitter and start blasting her right away.

1 (9m 60s):
Hmm, interesting. Cuz he might have, Jennifer, let me ask you a last question. When a woman runs for president in this country and people don't think she can win for whatever reason, you will start to hear, talk about, well she knows she can't win, she's running for vice president. Do you think Nikki Haley is really running to win the presidency?

3 (10m 19s):
I do. I do. I just don't see her as someone who's running to be vice president. She's very much someone who's of the mind that, you know, women should run for office or, or run for whatever it is that's meaningful to them as women and expect to win. So for her to go presenting to other women, you should run, but, but really you just want something lesser or you would take something lesser and the men are assumed to get the number one position. That's just really not her messaging, that's not the way she's presented herself at all. It's not to say she wouldn't except that later if that's, you know, becomes clear, that's the best she's likely to do.

3 (10m 59s):
But I, I don't see her running position right out of the gate.

1 (11m 7s):
Jennifer Barry Halls of ProPublica, also a longtime reporter for the Post and Courier in Charleston SE coming up next, the Republican establishments theory of everything. No, their theory of how they're gonna win the presidency in 2024, Andrew Procop will explain the plan.

6 (11m 31s):
Do you remember Diana Ross's Super Bowl halftime show? It was wild. And then you see a helicopter and you're like, wait, where's the helicopter going? Oh yes, it's going on the field and oh yes, Diana Brass is getting in a helicopter. The helicopter takes off from the field with her hanging out the side of it like she's Laura Cross Deum Raider. We break down the best and worst halftime shows of all time this week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast.

1 (12m 10s):
It's today explained, I'm Noelle King, Andrew Procop of Vox. So Nikki Haley has announced she is running to be the Republican nominee. Donald Trump has already announced and so it will just be those two, right?

7 (12m 22s):
No, not exactly. There is expected to be a veritable parade of other contenders joining the race. So the most conversation right now is about Florida Governor Ron DeSantis.

8 (12m 38s):
We fight the woke in the legislature, we fight the woke in the schools.

7 (12m 43s):
He's been looming over the race to a significant extent.

8 (12m 48s):
Florida is where woke goes to die.

7 (12m 52s):
Donors and Republican power players expect him to announce a campaign perhaps this spring. But there's also another group of people in the Nikki Haley category, people who are somewhat notable, not quite viewed as formidable challengers to Trump just yet, but they're gonna try their luck. They include actually another politician from South Carolina, Senator Tim Scott.

9 (13m 18s):
Gases high electricity aside eggs in California's almost $10. We have to do better. We deserve better.

7 (13m 26s):
There are the governors, Larry Hogan of Maryland, Chris Sununu of New Hampshire, Glenn Youngin of Virginia. We

10 (13m 34s):
Have runaway crime in our neighborhoods and they demean and demoralize police. We have chaos in the world and they make America

7 (13m 41s):
Weaker. Then there's another former Trump administration official, former Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo.

11 (13m 47s):
Every day was a privilege to serve. I was the Secretary of State for a thousand days. I wasn't about to give up one single second of it to focus on anything but doing my duty to the

7 (13m 57s):
Country. And there is the former vice president Mike Pence.

12 (14m 0s):
I've sought to practice the kind of politics that reflects I think the civility and respect the American people show one another and if we choose to run we we won't run against anyone

7 (14m 11s):
And there could be more.

1 (14m 13s):
You've been reporting Andrew on what big donors are doing, where they're putting their dollars, whom they are giving their attention to. Which big donors have you been looking at?

7 (14m 22s):
So the really big Republican power players are the network of conservative groups that was started by the Koch brothers now just Charles Koch because his brother David passed away. And also the anti-tax group, the Club for Growth. These are organizations that play in electoral politics to the tune of spending tenser or hundreds of millions of dollars. And so they can make a big impact. And right now the word is that both of them are going to try to get someone who is not named Donald Trump to be the 2024 Republican nominee.

1 (15m 5s):
Oh, okay. So before we get to who might be, is this a change for either of those groups, either Koch or the club for growth? Who were they backing in 2016?

7 (15m 14s):
Koch stayed neutral in 2016. He was never a big fan of Trump because Koch is more from the libertarian tradition of the Republican party and he didn't like Trump's skepticism towards free trade policy and other entitlement cuts and other traditional economically conservative positions. And the club for growth, they endorsed Ted Cruz in 2016, but pretty late in late March. So they did not intervene too early last time.

1 (15m 46s):
Do they have a plan to do things differently this time and what are they gonna do differently to get what they want?

7 (15m 52s):
So I don't know their specific plans and what exactly they will do, but I do know that there is a theory that's in many elite Republican circles about what went wrong in 2016. They have an understanding that mistakes were made on their parts and they believe that Trump won because there were too many candidates in the race in 2016,

13 (16m 21s):
Someday we will have a Republican presidential front runner someday

7 (16m 24s):
That were splitting the support of anti-Trump voters and that the anti-Trump faction in the party and among the elites who were most party elites last time, they failed to consolidate early enough around one challenger to

13 (16m 40s):
Trump. Look at this national Quinnipiac poll, five candidates at 10%. Jeb Bush won them. Governor Huckabee, Senator Rubio, governor Walker, Ben Carson, no front

7 (16m 49s):
Runner. So in this telling, Trump just kept on winning primaries and caucuses with 33% of the vote, 35% of the vote. And then this winning helped make him look more like a winner and get more support while his opponents remain divided. And in the end he just kind of steamroller to the nomination that way.

14 (17m 16s):
Police clap please, please, please,

1 (17m 19s):
Please. The Republican establishment has an interesting thesis, which is in 2016 the place where we messed up is we just had too many people in the primary and that is why Donald Trump won. Does your analysis bear this out? Do you agree with them?

7 (17m 31s):
I don't agree with this, huh? My read is that what the 2016 primary show is that the party elites are far more limited in their sway over the Republican voters than was generally believed that there were in fact many attacks on Donald Trump. There was a lot of criticism about Donald Trump. Fox News at various points tried to criticize Trump harshly and to convince his viewers that he was not a reliable Republican, that he would undesirable in various ways. You've

15 (18m 7s):
Called women, you don't like fat pigs, dogs slobs and disgusting

7 (18m 12s):
Animals, but it didn't work. Their viewers loved him and eventually they changed their coverage to avoid alienating their viewers. More to the point, what we actually saw when these candidates dropped out of the race was that it was, it was wrong to think of the Republican voters as 33% for Trump, 67% against Trump. Because when some of these other candidates who were getting 10%, 15% of the vote dropped out, Trump ended up increasing his support. Some of those voters for say Marco Rubio or Chris Christie had Trump as their second choice.

7 (18m 54s):
And so when these candidates dropped out, Trump kept rising.

1 (18m 58s):
Okay. So if you disagree with the establishment theory, you are saying they don't have as much control as they think they do. They sure didn't. In 2016 is is what you're imagining repeat of 2016. We've got the same guy Donald Trump. Donald Trump is the nominee again, this is what voters want.

7 (19m 13s):
Well that's the big question. I do think there are reasons to expect that 2024 may well be a lot different than 2016. The Trump of 2024 is a different person than 2016. He has some more strengths as in he's no longer an outside figure who is perhaps a little scary. Instead, almost all Republican voters have cast a ballot for Trump at this point. He also has some very serious weaknesses. His support, as you can see in polls is the worst it's been since he won the nomination. Essentially

15 (19m 50s):
Among Republicans at Republican leaning independence, 49% say they prefer someone other than Trump in 2024.

7 (19m 59s):
I think most importantly though, there are more doubts about his electoral strength he lost in 2020 and then he and his specific chosen candidates in 2022 often fell short. Trump himself wasn't on the ballot, but he tried aggressively to play in a lot of these primaries and and elect some mini trumps.

8 (20m 22s):
He broke every record. Come on up here. Herschel Walker come up

7 (20m 26s):
Here and and often they flock

16 (20m 29s):
NBC news projects. Democratic incumbent Senator Raphael Warnock has defeated his Republican challenger, Herschel

7 (20m 35s):
Walker. There is an argument that's going to be made by these challengers to Trump that he is a loser and that if Republicans wanna beat Biden, they should maybe pick someone who did not lose to Joe Biden just a few years ago.

1 (20m 47s):
And if a bunch of Republicans jump in this time around, what do you think that means?

7 (20m 52s):
I think a big difference right now is that last time it wasn't really even clear who the Republican front runner was, but right now the front runner is pretty clearly Trump. But the leading anti-Trump contender does seem at this point to be Ron DeSantis. And DeSantis is a bit of a different figure than those establishment choices that flop so badly last time. DeSantis has more juice with the Republican base. He could flop, he could suffer under Trump's attacks, which have already begun. But he is at least starting from a stronger point as the what's believed now to be the consensus anti-Trump alternative than anyone was in 2016.

1 (21m 43s):
Is he the consensus for the establishment groups? You've been looking into Koch Club for growth. Are they lining up behind Ascentis?

7 (21m 51s):
Not yet. They want to keep their options open and they are saying they want to talk to several candidates and get a better sense of which positions they're running on and what their electoral strengths are and so on. And I think that's reasonable at this point in the year. You know, we won't be seeing like huge ad campaigns probably until much later on. So these groups will really be able to make their impact to the extent they have any later.

1 (22m 17s):
This Republican establishment, it's been a while since they've picked a winner for the presidency. How much does this Republican establishment, these big groups, how much do they still matter?

7 (22m 27s):
I think there's an argument that they matter less than at any recent point. Trump essentially appealed straight to the voters and through conservative media organizations to the base. The establishment has kind of been struggling on how to deal with that, struggling about whether they can in fact take back some semblance of power and control and they're going to try to. But I think in the end it really is just going to come down to the voters. The real question is whether DeSantis or somebody else, because it's possible that that perhaps someone will catch fire later on that we're not expecting yet will be able to persuade voters that yes, they are a strong alternative leader to the Republican party and that it's time to push Trump aside to embrace the future and to move on.

1 (23m 30s):
Today's show is produced by Miles Brian, who will lose our bet and edited by Amina Elad. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and Matthew Collette and it was engineered by Paul Robert Mounty. I'm Noelle King, it's today explained.