0 (1s):
Nikki Haley and Ron DeSantis will debate on CNN in Iowa tonight. The Iowa caucuses less than a week away. Donald Trump will not be there. He doesn't have to be. He's so far ahead. He is Unpassed and unbothered by the others. Oh wait, he's going after Haley Nikki

1 (17s):
Haley has been in the pocket of the Open borders establishment donors her entire career. And she's a globalist. you know, she likes the globe. I like America first.

0 (28s):
Oh, and just Last night. Trump promoted a new Birtherism conspiracy. He says Nikki Haley can't be president because her parents weren't citizens when she was born in South Carolina. Oh, maybe Trump saw that CNN polling from yesterday.

2 (41s):
Nikki Haley has trimmed Donald Trump's lead to single digits in New Hampshire

0 (47s):
Because he seems shook. Coming up on today. Explain Nikki Haley maybe

BetterHelp (1m 0s):
Support for the show today comes from Better Help Online Therapy. New Year's resolutions are tricky. It's exciting to write out a list of things that you'd like to change, but can also be kind of devastating to realize that yet again you didn't magically become a different person. Just 'cause you got a new leopard calendar. Better Help can help you focus on the things that you really need to start a new, celebrate the progress you've already made. Visit Better help.com/explain today to get 10% off your first month. That's better. hlp.com/explained.

Unexplainable podcast (1m 30s):
This Week on Unexplainable Can scientists save the rainforest by listening to it? Here we go. Well, this is not gonna work. It's in the day. Got it, got it, got it. All the birds. Let me see if there's anything from the night That's a poison frog. Wait, Wait, where the, I don't. Okay. That's a Boys and Fry. How to make a stethoscope for the rainforest. That's un unexplainable this week. Follow for new episodes every Wednesday.

8 (2m 7s):
This is

4 (2m 9s):
Today explained

0 (2m 11s):
Andrew Prokop has just written for Vox dot com, a piece called Nikki Haley, the one candidate who could still make the GOP primary kind of interesting explained. Therefore, and of course we were gonna call Andrew to explain how Nikki Haley has made the GOP primary kind of interesting Andrew shoot.

8 (2m 28s):
Donald Trump has been the obvious overwhelming front runner for this presidential race For a long time. All of his opponents have either gone down in flames or have failed to get off the ground. There's been one exception who's had just a glimmer of improvement and that has been Nikki Haley

9 (2m 48s):
Nikki Haley is now beating Ron DeSantis and the national GOP average.

10 (2m 53s):
We have signs that Trump views Haley now as his main possible threat. He's attacking her by

0 (2m 58s):
Name. Here we are with Nikki Haley appearing to be the main challenger to Donald Trump right now, in this moment today, as you and I speak, soon we will see whether or not that's really the case because there's the Iowa caucuses and the new Hampshire primary. How is she selling herself to voters in Iowa and new Hampshire?

8 (3m 17s):
I think it's interesting to contrast her approach with Ron DeSantis approach. DeSantis has really been trying to out flank Trump from the right to argue to conservative activists to real, you know, hardcore partisan warriors that, you know, he's tougher than Trump. He's, he's with Trump on everything and, and, but he's gonna do even better. And he's maybe with them even more on some issues.

11 (3m 47s):
You know, when he was president, we were all supportive of, of securing the border. He tried to push through an amnesty in 2018. I opposed that it's not a Republican thing to do to push through an amnesty. you know,

8 (3m 58s):
Haley hasn't really done that at all. She has been running in, I guess what we could call the lane of the much more traditional Republican. You could even say that she is running as a pre-Trump Republican.

12 (4m 14s):
As governor, I took a double digit unemployment state and I turned it into an economic powerhouse. Businesses were my partners because if you take care of your businesses, you take care of your economy, your economy takes care of the people and everyone wins. If Disney would like to move their hundreds of thousands of jobs to South Carolina and bring the billions of dollars with them, I'll be happy to meet them in South Carolina.

8 (4m 36s):
Most of her campaign would fit in quite perfectly to the early 2010s when she first rose to prominence. She hasn't really updated her issue positioning or her political style in any kind of obvious attempt to appeal to Trump voters. She's very much a pre-Trump Republican.

12 (4m 58s):
When my kids were little, even when I was governor, I would still be home five days a week to have dinner with them because I thought the family dinner mattered. Sundays were our days. We always were together on Sunday and, and Friday nights were Haley family fun night.

0 (5m 14s):
Okay, this is interesting. So no, no threatening to imprison her enemies if she gets elected. No slap fights with the Disney Corporation. She is a throwback. She's somebody who, it sounds like you're saying is potentially acting as if the Republican party and Republican voters haven't changed.

8 (5m 32s):
That's right. And I think she has the support of many Republican donors who would like the party to revert to. Its pre-Trump positioning, Nikki

13 (5m 42s):
Haley reportedly holding private conversations with JP Morgan, CEO, Jamie Diamond about the global economy. And Axios is reporting that Diamond admires Haley's grasp of the economy, specifically that she believes government and business can drive growth by working together.

8 (5m 58s):
It's pretty evident in a couple of issue areas where she has stuck with those old line Republican positions and not embraced the new Trump repositioning of the party. I think there are two issues where that's clearest. One is on entitlements. Back in the early 2010s, entitlement cutting, social security and Medicare reform were all the rage among Republicans pushed by Paul Ryan. Donors love this, but when Trump ran, he said, I'm not going to do any of this. Haley has been going out on the trail saying, we've

12 (6m 30s):
Got an issue, we need to fix it. And the way we fix it is no one has to worry that you're gonna lose what you paid in or what you gave. But what we will do is make changes to those like my kids in their twenties. Those coming into the system, we will change their retirement age to reflect life expectancy. We will change rather than doing cost of living increases, we'll do increases based on inflation. We will,

8 (6m 52s):
The other area is foreign policy in which, you know, the issue of the Ukraine war has kind of loomed the largest, it's, it's been the clearest issue of contrast among the contenders on the debate stage this year. And it's one where Haley contrasts with Trump a lot as well. Before

1 (7m 9s):
I even arrive at the Oval Office, I will have the disastrous war between Russia and Ukraine settled. It'll be settled quickly.

8 (7m 18s):
Haley wants to keep arming Ukraine to give more aid. She says this is an extremely important conflict for the United States to be involved in. But more broadly than that, she is a more traditional Republican Hawk supporting a broad American leadership role in the world.

0 (7m 39s):
So Nikki Haley is running like the kind of Republican that Republican voters would've really liked 10, 15 years ago. How is it going over with Republican voters?

8 (7m 51s):
For now, Haley has not been any sort of a roaring success in the national contest. She's still, you know, around 10 or 11% in the polls nationally. Whereas Trump is somewhere around 50 or 60 generally. That is obviously quite a big gap. But what does give her campaign, perhaps the faintest glimmer of hope are the polls that have been coming out of the early Republican. Primary state of new Hampshire,

2 (8m 20s):
New polling from CNN and the University of New Hampshire shows Trump would support from 39% of likely Republican primary voters in the state. Haley has 32%.

8 (8m 30s):
Another poll was less encouraging. It showed Trump with a 20 point lead, 46 to 26 over Haley. Christie again with 12. She's got some other things going for her in New Hampshire too. She has the endorsement of the state's governor Chris Sununu. In

14 (8m 47s):
New Hampshire we're the live or die state, right? So we want limited government, we want local control, we want low taxes, individual responsibility, and to kind of have someone really understand that, that they can carry that to the White House in New Hampshire. That's really what's moving her numbers more than anything.

8 (8m 60s):
Notably in new Hampshire, independents are allowed to vote in the Republican primary and there's not a serious Democratic primary going on at the same time. So many of them might. And there have been arguments that they should vote for Haley instead of Trump. She has a lot of outside spending on her side group supporting Haley have been outspending group supporting either Trump or DeSantis on the airwaves in Iowa and in New Hampshire. Haley had won the endorsement of the political network founded by billionaire Charles Koch. And that has been helpful to her in giving her this outside money.

8 (9m 40s):
So she has a lot of things going for her and you can kind of see while she's still the underdog in New Hampshire, there are the conditions there if things go right for her over the next couple weeks for something interesting to happen. Maybe

0 (9m 54s):
For that reason, for that precise reason. Let's stay in New Hampshire for a second. So a couple weeks back, Nikki Haley is in New Hampshire. She's doing a town hall. She's taking questions. Someone asks her,

15 (10m 7s):
What was the cause of the United States Civil War?

12 (10m 16s):
Well, don't come with an easy question or anything. I mean, I think the cause of the Civil War was basically how government was gonna run the freedoms and what people could and couldn't do. And

0 (10m 25s):
That answer creates a firestorm. Can you just walk us through that scandal and what you think it really says?

8 (10m 34s):
Well, Haley is a very good politician most of the time, which means she is kind of calculating for the answer that she thinks voters will want to hear from her. And so my assumption is that she heard that question. And you know, she's from South Carolina state with a very troubled racial history, to put it mildly state from the former Confederacy. She's obviously had these questions, questions about race come up in the past. She's faced concerns about her own ability to appeal to perhaps voters with racist views, given that she is non-white.

8 (11m 18s):
And I think that she got the question, and it was a bit of a kind of deer in the headlights moment. And she tried to avoid saying what she thought would be the wrong thing, but she didn't expect that it would go viral and that she would, she would look like such a, a shifty, dodgy politician. So she tried to, to roll it back very quickly, you know,

12 (11m 40s):
I had black friends growing up, it is a very talked about thing. I was thinking past slavery and talking about the lesson that we would learn going forward.

8 (11m 50s):
It's really just a classic gaff that hands ammunition to her opponents. And now you've seen everyone from Ron DeSantis to Donald Trump to Joe Biden piling on and saying, oh, this proves that she's, she's not a straight talking politician that, that she's, she's dodging the real answers.

1 (12m 10s):
She didn't use the word slavery, which was interesting. I don't know that it's, it's gonna have an impact. But you know, I'd say slavery is sort of the obvious answer. Supposed to. It's supposed to about three paragraphs of

0 (12m 23s):
Lastly, Andrew, let me ask you about Donald Trump. So we're all paying attention to Nikki Haley, you and I are doing a whole episode about her. How is Trump responding to all of this?

8 (12m 35s):
Well, you know, Haley was a Trump appointee as UN ambassador. They were always said to get along pretty well during that time. She's been very careful about how she has criticized Trump. She's, she's kind of mostly used kids' gloves about it and and stuck to the issues. And Trump has been more focused on DeSantis for most of the past year, just hammering away at DeSantis, ripping him the shreds. But you know, now Haley appears to be the threat. He has been saying that Haley was in the pocket of establishment donors, that it's really Democrats who are trying to make her the nominee.

8 (13m 19s):
The subtext for a lot of what's going on here is that many are wondering whether Haley might in fact have a different office on her mind, the vice presidency under Trump, because Trump is obviously in the market for a new vice president due to his falling out with Mike Pence who refused to steal the 2020 election for him. So according to many reports, Trump advisors would prefer to pick a woman as the VP nominee because of the abortion issue and a desire to appeal to suburban voters who might not be on board with Trump. Anyway, So, there are a few possibilities, but Haley has always lewd pretty large on that list.

8 (14m 3s):
So, there is a question if she refuses to go after Trump too hard, if things end relatively well between them, she may have positioned herself pretty well to be his pick for vp. The question is whether Haley is truly in it for the vice presidency and whether Trump would actually pick her for that

0 (14m 27s):
V's. Andrew. Prokop ahead. We going to Iowa after a weather delay in O'Hare Airport

Mint Mobile (14m 47s):
Support for today. Explain comes from Mint Mobile Mint Mobile would like to offer you an affordable new phone plan to cut back on monthly expenses in the new year. Mint Mobile sells their phone plans totally online and according to the company, that's how they're able to pass savings onto you for a limited time. They're passing on even more savings with a new customer offer. All of Mint Mobile's plans are just $15 a month when you purchase a three month plan. All plans have unlimited talk text plus high speed 5G data. You can also take your current device and phone number with you to get a new plan to get this new customer offer and your new three month unlimited wireless plan for $15 a month. You can go to Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. That's Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. Cut your wireless bill to 15 bucks a month at Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. Additional taxes, fees and restrictions apply. See Mint Mobile for details.

Indeed (15m 43s):
Support for today Explained comes from indeed when you're hiring, you know how tedious it can feel to find the right person with a job search. But what if you get rid of the search altogether and just match? Indeed is a matching and hiring platform with over 350 million global monthly visitors according to Indeed data and a matching engine that can help you find quality candidates fast. According to a recent Indeed Survey, 93% of employers agree indeed delivers listeners of the show will get a $75 sponsored job credit to help you get your jobs. More visibility at indeed.com/today explained. You can go to indeed.com/today explained right now and let them know you heard about Indeed on this podcast indeed.com/today. Explained terms and conditions do apply

Green Chef (16m 48s):
support for today. Explaining comes from Green Chef. If one of your goals in the new year is to focus on eating healthier, then setting yourself up with a regular weekly rotation of nutrient-dense meals can be a great place to start. It might be time to check out Green Chef. I've never had a Green Chef, but Sarah Frank, my colleague has. I recently got a chance to try out Green Chef. They sent me a variety of pre-portioned, fresh ingredients for several meals with really simple recipes and instructions. This weekend I made prosciutto and mozzarella wraps with a side salad. What's really great is because of the pre-portioned ingredients, you're not wasting any food. If you're familiar with HelloFresh meals, green Chef is now owned by HelloFresh. It's got a wider array of meal plans to choose from. So there's something for everyone. If you can go to green chef.com/sixty explained and use the code 60 explained to get 60% off plus 20% off your next two months. That's code 60 explained@greenchef.com slash 60. Explained to get 60% off and 20% off your next two months.

20 (18m 6s):
Explained 2024 explained,

21 (18m 9s):
I'm Scott Jennings and I'm a partner at Run Switch Public Relations. I'm a senior political contributor for CNN and was special assistant to President George W. Bush and work on both of his campaigns. Alright,

0 (18m 22s):
For color, tell me where, where are you right now and why are you there?

21 (18m 26s):
Well, I'm currently in the Chicago O'Hare airport and I've been here for several hours because it's snowing and I'm trying to get to Des Moines because CNN my employer's having a big debate and they want me there to talk about it and, and God willing, we'll make it sometime in the next 24 hours.

0 (18m 42s):
So let's talk right now about some, a new CNN poll that has everyone in my slack excited Nikki Haley is running at 32% of likely Republican voters in new Hampshire to Donald Trump's 39%. Of course everyone's excited because what Haley's within 7% of Trump should we care about these polls? Should we care about these numbers?

21 (19m 2s):
I think you should care about it. Of course, I also think you should average them. And there was another survey showing Trump much further ahead. So the truth is probably somewhere in the middle. I mean the glaring issue with the CNN poll of course is that Nikki Haley is close to Trump, but if you were to toss on Chris Christie's percentage in that survey to combine, they'd be ahead of Trump. And you don't always get a one for one conversion on things like that. But you can see that if that's to be believed, there is the possibility that someone could get on top of the Republican front runner in, at least in New Hampshire.

0 (19m 34s):
The Iowa caucuses are next week. How important are the next seven to 10 days for Nikki Haley?

21 (19m 40s):
Well, pretty important. They're really important for everybody of course. And it's because of whether or not expectations are going to be met. I think for Donald Trump, the expectation is that he wins. And so how to spend the margin of victory and what is the margin of victory is gonna be a big deal. For Ron DeSantis a competitive second place seems very necessary for him to keep the ball bouncing for Haley who seems to be peaking at the right time. If she were able to move in front of DeSantis in Iowa, even if she fell farther back from Trump but was still in second place, she could spin that as some momentum heading into friendlier terrain in new Hampshire. So the expectations game here, mostly based on the margins, is vital I think for all three of these campaigns moving forward.

0 (20m 21s):
Hey, why has new Hampshire been friendlier terrain for Nikki Haley? Why do the people there seem to like her a bit more than in Iowa?

21 (20m 28s):
I think it's a more moderate electorate. Huh? Less friendly to Trump. There's also independence in new Hampshire that aren't necessarily affiliated with either party or maybe more moderate in nature that can come into that primary. And I think some of these folks are northeastern Republicans. I think they're probably the most likely people on the map to want to go back to a, a Nikki Haley type nominee, a pre-Trump type nominee, if you will. Then when you're gonna get into some other states like Iowa or even South Carolina, which is obviously coming up pretty soon, where Nikki Haley used to be the governor. And that's really been one of the core questions of this primary. Are there enough republicans who'd like to go back to a pre-Trump style nominee?

21 (21m 7s):
Or is this now Donald Trump's party and only Trump or Trump era Republicans viable for the nomination?

0 (21m 13s):
What do you think Nikki Haley has been doing well so far and what has she been doing? Not well? Well

21 (21m 18s):
She's been the most polished person on most of the stages. I mean, for most of these debates in town halls, she gives a very compelling and polished presentation. She's got a good answer for things. She's had in many cases the ability to fend off attacks and to deliver some attacks. I frankly think she was at her best when she was spanking Vivic Ramas Swami and some of their exchanges over foreign policy and other issues. There we have it. I

12 (21m 43s):
Know you're watching. So the reality is Make America Lesa, you have no foreign policy experience and it shows, and you know what it shows, there's a foreign policy

21 (21m 50s):
Experience where she's had some stumbles lately, a few gaffes, where she was tricked up by a, a person asking her about the cause of the Civil War in New Hampshire. She made a gaff when she told people in new Hampshire that they needed to quote correct the votes of the people in Iowa. Of course the folks in Iowa don't really want to hear that. And then she gave an interview where she talked about needing to change personalities. When you go from state to state, Iowa

12 (22m 14s):
Starts it, you change personalities, you go into new Hampshire and they continued on. And by the time,

21 (22m 20s):
If you could encapsulate the knock on Nikki Haley, it's that right there. The idea that she's malleable the idea that she's whatever she needs to be in the moment. And that's obviously not something that voters want to hear. But on the whole, she's been a very polished person. And if you're looking for someone who sounds the part, the way we've usually understood it, she's it. Now, whether that is in opposition to the idea of authenticity that some voters crave today that sort of embodies Trump's appeal to the Republicans, we'll wait and see. But, but it's, there's been a real polish with her public appearances. She was

0 (22m 56s):
Probably telling the truth when she said, you have to change who you are depending on what state you're in. And somehow telling the truth and authenticity are in this case a bit at odds with each other.

21 (23m 6s):
Well, I think the, the knock on her as a candidate has always been that she just morphs into whatever the, you know, prevailing Republican shape is of the day. So when she started, then when she goes to work for Trump now when she's running for this office and it causes people to wonder who is Nikki Haley. And so then when she says to an interviewer, well, yeah, you just change personalities when you go over to another state. It, it does cause people to say, well, wait a minute, I don't want somebody to change personalities. I wanna know who they are, what they stand for, and that they're gonna be strong enough to be that no matter what state they're in, no matter what situation they're in. And so I, I do think that was a, I do think that was a real stumble, honestly.

21 (23m 50s):
'cause it's just not what Republicans are looking for these days. Somebody who's malleable, that's what they would say about the pre-Trump Republican era. you know, people were too weak, they were too soft, they were too willing to give up on their values and principles. They wouldn't fight enough. And I think that little statement, you know, sort of was a, was an embodiment of, of, of what people would say about that era versus the Trump era when everybody seems to know what they believe and, and have a willingness to fight for it.

0 (24m 16s):
You know, we heard that same sentiment from Andrew Prokop in the first half of our show, that Nikki Haley is a pre-Trump Republican. That she's an old time Republican, Republicans like Donald Trump. It's early to call this. You can tell me how foolish it is to ask you this question right now, but do you think Nikki Haley could beat Donald Trump?

21 (24m 33s):
I think it's possible she could get close to him in new Hampshire if Chris Christie were to drop out, which it doesn't sound like he's going to, that would help her mathematical possibility. So I think it's possible in a state where the terrain is the friendliest and you have the possibility of some independences coming in. Sure. you know, the conditions could strike on a given day. I think the trouble is when you look at the landscape at large, nationally, about two thirds of Republicans want Donald Trump to be the nominee. He's had a grip on this party for years to the idea that it would turn on a dime when it hasn't really moved an inch since he came onto the scene, strikes me as highly improbable. So, you know, you, you would think, look, Trump's gonna win Iowa.

21 (25m 15s):
He bounces out of that. Maybe he has a brush with a close race in, in new Hampshire. But then you start to get into a bunch of other states where he's gonna run really strong, including South Carolina where she was governor. And I suspect Donald Trump would have no trouble dispatching her if they had the primary there today. Why

0 (25m 33s):
Is that? She was governor. People in South Carolina elected her. Why would she have so much trouble?

21 (25m 38s):
Well, this is, this is the difference between the modern party that exists in the image of Donald Trump and the party that existed prior to Trump in in, in the era when she was governor. I mean, this has been the great question. Are there enough Republicans left who wanna do something like nominated Nikki Haley pre-Trump Republican, or do they just wanna keep going down this path? And I think South Carolina, like a lot of other southern and rural states, have fully embraced the Trump era of the Republican party. And, and based on the polling I've seen down there right now, he's in really strong shape. Now, if she were to win new Hampshire and get a little momentum in a, in a narrative shift, maybe that state gets a little more interesting.

21 (26m 19s):
But I would think Trump is destined to run strong in South Carolina and states that are similarly positioned.

0 (26m 29s):
All right, Scott Jennings from O'Hare Airport. Good luck making your way to Iowa. We really appreciate this. Take good care.

21 (26m 35s):
We got our snow boots in the luggage. We just need the plane to take off.

0 (26m 43s):
Today's episode was produced by Miles Bryan and edited by Matthew Collette. It was engineered by David Herman and fact checked by Laura Bullard Scott Jennings made it to Iowa at one 30 this morning. It's today explained.