0 (0s):
You've heard of Tesla, but how about Nicola? Turns out there's not one but two electric car companies named after the legendary inventor and the founder of the other one just got convicted of fraud.

1 (13s):
Trevor Milton, the 40 year old founder of electric truck manufacturer, Nicola convicted by a federal jury Friday of one count of securities fraud and two counts of wire fraud.

0 (25s):
I know this is confusing because the Tesla guy is also borderline committing fraud online all the time. Our

2 (30s):
Top priority I have, I would have is, is eliminating the, the spam and, and scam bots and the bot armies that are in Twitter.

0 (39s):
But stick with me here. The founder of Nicola was just convicted by a federal jury of fraud, bragging about technology he didn't possess to boost the stock value of his company. The stories kind of bananas and reminds us how much work remains to realize. Joe Biden's All Electric Dream that's momentarily on today. Explained

1 (59s):
Cover story from New York Magazine is back. I'm Hannah Rosen, host of Season two Seed Money. This season we have a story about a billionaire and ex buy many, many women. It's

3 (1m 12s):
Almost like he's using all the women as a startup

1 (1m 15s):
Company and so, so many lies.

4 (1m 18s):
If I can't stop him, I don't think anybody will be able to stop him.

1 (1m 23s):
Cover story Season two, Seed Money Coming October 25th, Hear the trailer and follow us wherever you listen to podcasts.

5 (1m 33s):
Taylor

0 (1m 33s):
Swift

5 (1m 34s):
Is releasing her 10th album this week and it will most likely be a hit like everything she's ever done.

6 (1m 41s):
I'm never gonna call avant garde, but she's far more innovative than most people give her credit for and I think she will go down as one of the greats in arguably.

5 (1m 53s):
But this is a good time to assess her career and legacy, the meaning of Taylors Swift this week on Into It vs. Culture podcast.

0 (2m 6s):
What do you think today

7 (2m 7s):
Explains this? I dunno,

0 (2m 12s):
Sean Ram from here with Ben Foldy from the Wall Street Journal, who used to write about cars but now writes about financial crimes, which sort of makes him the perfect person to tell you about. Nicola.

8 (2m 22s):
Yes, Nicola, the first name of Nicola Tesla, the Croatian, I believe engineer of about a century ago,

7 (2m 31s):
Was conducting the electricity, our bodies, Mr. Angio, quite capable of conducting and indeed producing energy.

8 (2m 44s):
So in the summer spring of 2020, there were what I would maybe call the second generation of like electric vehicle companies. So the first generation of startups was Tesla, another company called Fisker.

10 (2m 55s):
Ain't nobody sicker in my Fisker. Ain't Fisker don't make noise when they start up. Just

8 (3m 2s):
So you know, Fisker Automotive didn't survive, went bust, and Tesla obviously kind of survived, took off, thrived eventually, and became the most valuable car company in the world in 2020.

2 (3m 14s):
I don't wanna give the impression that I thought Tesla would be successful from the beginning. I actually thought we would fail. You did? Really? Oh yeah, yeah. I thought we would maybe have a, I don't know, 10, 20% chance of success. I mean, startups in general fail and auto startups especially failed.

8 (3m 29s):
And then you have the second generation of kind of new startups.

11 (3m 33s):
Vivian is among the most serious competitors lining up to take on Tesla, Lucid Motors. It has announced that it received a $1 billion investment from the Saudi investment fund. The A

12 (3m 44s):
Company Electric Last Mile will begin trading today at the nasdaq. But,

8 (3m 48s):
And so most of those companies started going public around 2020. Nicola was the first of those. It was the poster child of the exuberance for this kind of second generation of startups. And for people who, you know, maybe thought they missed the boat on Tesla stock, it was kind of, there was this moment in the summer of 2020 where it seemed like, oh, well you might have missed the boat on Tesla, but look at all these other new EV companies that can take, you know, these huge market shares and become as valuable as Tesla.

13 (4m 17s):
We can all agree that whether it is a commercial vehicle, an suv, a sports car, whatever, chances are within the next decade, they're all gonna be electric and it's a big market opportunity.

8 (4m 28s):
And Nicola was the first of those to go public. And it was also the first to kind of fall apart.

0 (4m 33s):
Where does Nicola's story start?

8 (4m 35s):
Quite literally, it starts in Utah. Founder named Trevor, Milton decided to name his company Nicola,

14 (4m 41s):
Like some of the best inventions in the world by coincidence or by having chance. They started in a basement, My basement.

8 (4m 54s):
And the vision here was that you could have a, you know, an 18 wheel semi truck that was powered by what's called a hydrogen fuel cell.

14 (5m 3s):
It's really that the only fuel out there doesn't create any emissions or byproducts. Incredible. The only byproducts water. So as this truck goes down the road, the only thing coming outta this truck will be drips of water. And I think everyone around the world is gonna be cheering for that. And

0 (5m 15s):
This is, as opposed to other EV systems, which are just chiefly what batteries.

8 (5m 21s):
Yeah, so when most people talk about electric vehicles, they're talking about battery electric vehicles, which use, you know, lithium ion batteries, which are the same thing that you'll find in your laptop. But the issue with that is when you're using them at the level that you need to power a car, they're heavy. And the thing about trucking is that the main prerogative of a trucker is to carry as much weight as possible. And so the more weight you need to have batteries to carry around the weight that you're pulling, the more you're cutting into that weight.

0 (5m 51s):
Tell me about the guy who was promising this hydrogen fuel cell technology at Nicola.

8 (5m 58s):
Yeah, so Nicola was founded by a man named Trevor Milton. He's 40 years old. He doesn't have what people might kind of think of, you know, the background of a kind of visionary tech founder might look like. He didn't finish high school, he didn't finish community college. And you know, instead of kind of those types of experiences, he had these kind of successive businesses, but not in businesses that you'd necessarily would think lead to hydrogen truck company either. His first was an alarm business, like home alarms. Okay. And then he started a company that was like an online marketplace and classified ads not dissimilar to Craigslist or eBay.

8 (6m 42s):
Hmm. And then at the same time, he had this effort to get semi-trucks running on natural gas, and that's where he started kind of breaking into that world. But he's not an engineer, he's not, you know, a programmer, he's not a hydrogen scientist, he's not any of those things. What he is is a very good salesman.

14 (6m 59s):
This truck is by far the most state of the art truck ever built in history.

8 (7m 2s):
Part of it is his background as a member of the church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. Often part of the, the LDS experience is doing mission. Those type of mission trips end up making very, very good salespeople. And so there's all these businesses around Utah that kind of try to take in the former missionaries because they're, you know, they're used to rejection. And as, as one of my sources in Utah, put it, if you can sell God, you can sell anything.

0 (7m 28s):
And so what does he do? What does he sell the

8 (7m 30s):
World? He did it in sometimes through brazen and ambitious misrepresentations. The first time that he shows Anik Truck to the world, he says it's fully functioning. He says it's chained off so that nobody can get in and drive it into the crowd.

14 (7m 46s):
It's a little expensive, okay? You could probably buy a jet with what it costs to build this thing. So we're gonna try to keep people from driving off. But this thing fully functions and works, which is really incredible.

8 (7m 55s):
You know, this wasn't known at the time, but it came out later, that truck could never drive. It wasn't finished. You know, it had hydrogen painted on its side, but had no hydrogen parts. There was no hydrogen fuel cell in it. So these like really core critical systems of the truck were not done, huh. Over a year later, when Nikola the company put out this video of the truck driving the tweet said the Nikola one in motion. And it turns out that what they did was tow it to the top of a hill and let it roll down and use, you know, angles and drone shots to make it look as if it's driving at high speed,

15 (8m 29s):
The most state of the art truck ever built. History, history, history,

8 (8m 33s):
What? So, you know, I would say the salesmanship ran ahead of, of the fact, but the fact was always kind of running along behind it, trying to keep up. But then, you know, it kind of spins a little bit outta control. The company signs a deal to go public in the first half of, of 2020. You know, it hasn't sold a truck, It doesn't have a truck to sell yet. It says it has, you know, billions of dollars in pre-orders, but none of them are binding. And Trevor takes to social media to talk about the company a lot.

14 (9m 10s):
It's so fun to be able to change the world, get rid of emissions, and actually build a truck that can outperform a gasoline version. Cuz you can't force people into electrification. You need to build better products that are actually better than the gas versions. And that's what we've done with the Nicola Badger

8 (9m 25s):
And the things that he starts saying about the company are less and less tethered to the core business of Nicola. And one of the things that, that NIS starts focusing on is a, is a pickup truck called the Badger. Because Tesla came out and showed off the cyber truck and people thought it was ugly and people responded well, when Trevor tweeted about what it could look like,

14 (9m 44s):
One of the cool things is you can literally drink the water right out of it. So what we do is from all the hydrogen that comes out of the vehicle, the byproduct just water. We take that water, we clean it, we put it into the windshield, washer fluid, all the excess is cleaned and sent to a chiller. So you can have ice, cold, clean water as you're driving down the road.

8 (10m 2s):
And Nicola stock is ballistic,

17 (10m 5s):
Nicola, that stock is up since look at that 88% since going public just last week. Now that is a rally and a half at its peak, the stock price was so high that it made the company more valuable than Ford and Fiat.

8 (10m 23s):
It was this real moment of like, what is this company that hasn't sold anything, doesn't have any revenue, hasn't started manufacturing anything, and why is it worth more than Ford? Which, you know, sells millions and millions of cars a year. It's almost like an IOUs moment where Nicola announces that it has a deal with General Motors, you know, the biggest automaker in America to, to make the badger. And then two days later, a report by a, a short selling firm called Hindenburg Research comes out.

14 (10m 57s):
Nicola shares are tumbling after a short seller called the company, An intricate fraud built on dozens of

8 (11m 3s):
Lies. You know, they ran the gamut from the stuff about the truck reveal back in 2016 to Trevor Milton saying that the Nikola headquarters was covered in solar panels and they, you know, look on Google Earth and they say, no, it is not. So it, you know, it's just this range of of misrepresentations that they, that they publish. And within a couple days, you know, it was reported that the SCC was looking into them and then it was quickly reported that the Department of Justice was looking into them. So it seemed like there was really some smoke here from a regulatory perspective. And then there started being issues with the underlying business. GM pulled back from its deal. And then about a week or so after the report came out, Trevor Milton stepped down as the executive chairman of Nicola, which again was kind of this like, oh, okay, something happened here, right?

8 (11m 48s):
Like people don't just step down from the company that they built if there's nothing to the allegations. And then, then it turned out to be, you know, a pretty serious criminal investigation. In Trevor Milton,

18 (11m 58s):
The founder and former executive chair of Nicola, is now on trial in New York. He's charged with lying about the company's products to mislead investors and prop up the stock.

8 (12m 6s):
Trevor pleaded not guilty and hired quite a powerful defense team to represent him. That included Brad Bondy, who you know, has previously represented Elon Musk in some of his securities litigation. And he also had Mark Mukasey who represented former President Donald Trump, as well as Eddie Gallagher, the Navy Seal, who was acquitted of war crimes.

0 (12m 32s):
So Trevor Pleads not guilty hires a big old fancy legal team. What do they say he was up to when he lied about solar panels on the roof of his factory and rolled a truck down a hill?

8 (12m 43s):
Yeah, so they didn't touch the solar panels. It was an interesting defense in some ways. The argument about rolling the truck down the hill and showing off the truck and you know, the truck without the fuel cell in it was actually that it was irrelevant. You know, it was before Nicola was a publicly traded company. Nobody bought and sold stock four years prior based on this, you know, event or these videos, you know, And then the other defense was really that Trevor was talking about the business plan. They actually made the argument in closing that this was a case of somebody being prosecuted for not being careful about what tents they were speaking in, you know, and saying things in present tenses that, you know, were should have maybe been in future tents.

0 (13m 28s):
And how does that, how does that go for them?

8 (13m 29s):
Did not ultimately sway the jury. Trevor was convicted of one of the counts of securities fraud and acquitted of the other, and then was convicted on both counts of wire

19 (13m 39s):
Fraud. The company has cut all ties with Milton, but the damage is done after reaching that high of more than $80 a share back in June. Nicola's shares closed at $3 and change on Friday. Milton now facing a sentence of more than 20 years in prison.

8 (13m 55s):
I think Nicola tells us this is not easy. Making cars and making trucks has never been easy. It's a incredibly expensive endeavor in proposition. And the seductiveness of these new startups that, you know, were scrappy and lean and had unconventional backgrounds of founders and things like that, they were not able to emulate Tesla in the ways that mattered or have not yet been. And Tesla's success is pretty idiosyncratic and not easily emulated. And I think that's one of the big lessons here. And I think the other thing too is that all of those other, you know, those legacy companies, those older companies, they've caught up.

8 (14m 40s):
You know, they're spending billions and billions and billions of dollars on EVs.

0 (14m 48s):
Ben Foldy, Wall Street Journal, he's got a whole dang podcast about Trevor Milton and Nicola. It's called Bad Bets. It's season two of that show. Even without the fraud. Getting electric vehicles to market is proving harder than everyone thought. That is next on today's explain,

20 (15m 8s):
You might not ever get it, but lemme tell you it's better than you do.

10 (15m 18s):
This is advertiser content brought to you by AbbVie.

21 (15m 22s):
We're always trying to understand how do we stop disease, right? Disease comes in, we try to stop it. That's how we practice medicine. An interesting thought would be, what if we actually didn't get disease? What if we prevented disease? Hi, my name is Howard Jacob, I'm a vice president at avi. I had the Genomic research center and I also had our data integration across r and d.

10 (15m 49s):
Better medicine starts with better information. So Howard and AbbVie have been setting a collection of more than 1 million human genomes to advance our understanding of disease.

21 (15m 59s):
It's a large amount of data. Your DNA extended end to end from all of your a hundred trillion cells would go to the sun and back 666.5 times.

10 (16m 10s):
All of that genetic information will have major implications for the future of healthcare. Helping doctors tailor treatment to every patient's needs.

21 (16m 18s):
For many genes, there are tests where you can actually say, Oh, this is the dose you should take, this is when you should take it, and this is why you're taking it. It opens the door for prescribing medications differently in a different doses for each individual.

10 (16m 32s):
Their work is already saving lives, but genetic researchers are far from satisfied.

21 (16m 37s):
I just know that we can do more. I know we can enable physicians to practice medicine better. I know we can enable patients to live healthier lives. I know we can develop better therapies and we just have to do it.

10 (16m 49s):
To learn more about how AbbVie is shaping the future of medicine, visit here now. Dot ABB v i e.

0 (16m 58s):
Hey, it's Sean. And when I showed up to vox.com back in November of 2017, I was actually new Sean because there was already a Sean, his name was Sean Illing. We lovingly referred to him as old Sean back in the day. And old Sean has a new podcast called The Gray Area, which was old Vox conversations. It's a philosophical take on culture and politics and whatever Sean's been thinking about, which tends to be really interesting stuff. We played one of their episodes sometime back in the feed on today, explained about forgiveness because I just never heard such an interesting dynamic conversation about forgiveness.

0 (17m 38s):
Sean's a bit of a philosopher by trade who happens to work in journalism and every week he's gonna sit down with journalists, authors, academics, and whoever else he wants to, to get some really cool takes in a very hot world. You see what they did there? New episodes of the gray area drop every Monday and Thursday. Check it out wherever you listen,

7 (18m 6s):
You are familiar with the phrase Man's reach exceeds his grasp is the lie. Man's grasp exceeds his nerve

0 (18m 16s):
Today explained. We're back, we just spoke to Ben about the high jinks at Nicolo, but we wanted to get a lay of the land in the EV world at large. So we got in touch with Rebecca Howwell from Recode. Rebecca, how's this big push to electrify going?

22 (18m 30s):
It's going well, but it's still pretty early right now. You know, only four to 5% of the vehicles that are being produced or sold in the United States are electric vehicles. That means the vast majority are still those classic gas powered internal combustion vehicles. You know, the main challenge is that we have a technology that works the battery electric vehicle, but just because it works doesn't mean that it's super easy to manufacture, you know, hundreds of thousands and millions of these vehicles and make them mainstream,

0 (19m 1s):
Right? And, and Nicola was taking this hydrogen fuel cell approach, but that isn't the approach the majority of manufacturers are making, right?

22 (19m 11s):
Yeah. So hydrogen fuel cell technology, people have been talking about it for a while. I actually just bought a vintage sci-fi magazine that was talking about hydrogen fuel tech, huh? So people have been talking about it for a while, but it has really struggled to get off the ground. You know, the vast majority of the electric vehicles that we're seeing in the United States are battery electric vehicles. So those are certainly easier to sort of get rolling than hydrogen fuel cell cars. But they definitely have their own manufacturing challenges too. And that really all goes back to the battery. These batteries require really rare materials or hard to produce materials that aren't necessarily so plentiful that we'll have enough to produce all the electric vehicles that car companies wanna build.

22 (19m 57s):
And a lot of these materials need to be extracted or mined. This is not a clean process in any way. You know, the argument is that it's still better to pursue EVs, but you know, there are real opponents, especially people who live near some of these facilities, you know, which probably have a lot to say about the environmental impacts that these kind of operations have. So there are real trade-offs that that need to be considered.

0 (20m 24s):
We've talked about some of these materials on the show before, like cobalt.

23 (20m 28s):
Cobalt is at the moment key for batteries. It stops some overheating and allows smaller battery sizes to be made.

22 (20m 37s):
Yeah. So the chemistry that batteries require can, can vary a little bit, but there are some materials that it's just very clear that batteries are gonna gonna need a lot of, So there's cobalt like you mentioned, which almost entirely comes from the drc where there are massive concerns about human rights abuses and child labor. So that raises some really important challenges that need to be addressed for getting EVs off the ground. There's lithium and right now lithium primarily comes from a place called the lithium triangle in South America and in some cases Australia there's nickel, which Russia produces a lot of. So that's obviously a challenge for obvious geopolitical reasons and, and the war in Ukraine.

22 (21m 21s):
But just adding a second layer of complexity to this is the fact that a lot of these materials need to be refined and a lot of that refining currently takes place in China.

24 (21m 32s):
China controls 80% of the world's raw material, refining more than three quarters of global cell capacity and 60% of the planet's component manufacturing. That means realizing President Biden's transportation, future of electric cars would depend on China unless the US develops its own capacity.

0 (21m 52s):
And there's a ton of competition for these resources, right?

22 (21m 56s):
There's a ton of competition. You know, the United States wants to resurrect its legacy as this big auto manufacturing nation. You know, you think of like Motor City and all the big automakers there, but you know, a lot of countries and a lot of companies around the world sense a major opportunity with EVs and everyone wants to get in on being able to extract these materials, sell these materials, and control the global electric vehicle market.

0 (22m 22s):
And as again, we've covered on the show before, President Biden is trying to put his foot on the pet a little bit, a lot a

25 (22m 29s):
Bit. American manufacturing is back, Detroit is back, America's back and folks were approving. It's never, ever, ever a good bet to bet against the American people. Never, never, never.

22 (22m 41s):
Yeah. He's putting billions and billions and billions of dollars. So the first way the Biden administration is sort of trying to get EVs off the ground is by investing in that American supply chain for electric vehicles. So that means, you know, subsidizing battery manufacturing, trying to help do some of that work with RAM materials here in the United States.

25 (23m 5s):
I believe we can own the future of the automobile market. I believe we can own the future of manufacturing,

22 (23m 12s):
But it also means trying to convince people to actually buy electric vehicles. So we're spending billions of dollars to build a nationwide network of EV chargers. And the hope there is that there are charges everywhere. People won't feel so nervous about transitioning to electric vehicles.

25 (23m 27s):
Used to be that to buy an electric car you had to make all sorts of compromises, but not now

22 (23m 34s):
American. So really a lot of money is going into this right now

0 (23m 36s):
And some of this investment has been controversial, right? People ask why not invest this money in other green initiatives instead of, of giving auto manufacturers a leg up and and subsidizing cars that a lot of people still can't afford.

22 (23m 52s):
Yeah, there is definitely a major debate about how, you know, the US should be approaching the electrification of transportation. I think the bite administration would say, you know, we are spending money on electrifying, not just, you know, passenger cars, the kind of cars that a family might own, but also vehicles that are used by the government. There are many tens and thousands and hundreds of thousands of vehicles used by the federal government. They're also, you know, subsidizing the electrification of school buses and things like that. But there is real debate to be had and you know, some people say like, Yeah, of course we should be using electric vehicles, but maybe it's better to focus on like electric public transportation and that should be the priority. So I think in reality it's kind of gonna be a mix of everything, but this effort doesn't lack criticism.

22 (24m 36s):
There are definitely criticisms that have been made about how we're going about funding this and whether, you know, who should be benefiting from all this money.

0 (24m 44s):
Well I guess if it's happening anyway, one can at least just hope that it'll be successful. Do these measures, Biden has introduced these massive spending efforts go far enough to address the supply issues that you talked about earlier.

22 (24m 59s):
So one of the things to note here is that these companies have committed to make, you know, transitioning away from internal combustion vehicles or even just stop selling them entirely. General Motors has committed to not doing that. And you know, the trend seems to be there. I think the question is like whether it's gonna happen fast enough and every gas car that's sold is maybe a car that could have been an ev. So, and, and that car is gonna exist for quite a long time continuing to emit. So it's not just, you know, whether it's gonna happen. It's, it's when, when this will happen, it'll it happen fast enough to, you know, deal with the massive climate crisis facing the world right now.

0 (25m 37s):
Even though it feels like this is the way the world is heading. And it's sort of, you know, unavoidable. You still see a majority of gas powered vehicles on the road and electric cars are still out of reach for a lot of consumers. But, you know, California passed this law saying that they were banning the sale of new gas power cars by 2035. How inevitable is the, you know, American vehicle fleet being all electric?

22 (26m 7s):
Yeah, I think the future of the car at this point is electric.

26 (26m 12s):
It's electric.

22 (26m 14s):
That's not to say that there won't necessarily be gas powered cars in the future, but you know, California is the biggest car market in the country and I think that's sort of hints set what's to come again, that matches the same date that GM has set to get rid of selling, you know, its own gas-powered vehicles. So that's sort of the future that we're headed to and that means taking the promise and also the downsides to the manufacturing of bbs really seriously. You

20 (26m 40s):
Can see it's electric. You got Feeling this

0 (26m 46s):
Electric. That was Rebecca Howwell. She's a reporter with Recode. You can read her work@vox.com. Our program today was produced by Amanda Lou Ellen. It was edited by Matthew Colette, engineered by Paul Robert Mosey, in fact checked by Laura Bullard with help from Miles Bryan Heli Shaw and in one case Paul Robert Mosey you've been listening to today. Explain.