3 (12s):
Multiple things can be true at once Joe. Biden can be the president-elect while the outgoing guy refuses to acknowledge. It Americans can celebrate the results in the streets. While others protesting cry foul Canada and the United Kingdom can call Biden to congratulate him while China and Russia hold off. None of this changes. The fact that Joe Biden will likely be inaugurated as the 46th president of the United States this January, but American democracy is being tested right now. Some people are totally oblivious. We are still a fact others are writing op-eds about an attempted coup zeynep to fact she finds herself somewhere in the

1 (49s):
middle. I think we should worry about what's happening for

3 (52s):
sure. She's a professor of political science at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

1 (57s):
I'm really not expecting some coup to happen maybe because my standards for qu are a little higher. I'm from the Middle East so I don't really expect that as part of the American experience, but that said, It really is troublesome to have this charade go on for longer. And what I'm seeing is that the president is refusing to accept reality because it kind of cuts into his narrative. I don't lose that doesn't mean it's okay for the GOP leadership to kind of play along because what I'm seeing them do is play along but clearly I think that there's not going to be effective legal

3 (1m 44s):
challenges. Trump has rejected any suggestion that he has lost the election

1 (1m 52s):
instead. He continues to make claims of voter fraud with no evidence while his

3 (1m 57s):
campaign pursues more legal challenges to the vote count in several Battleground

1 (2m 1s):
States. They say they will continue to file lawsuits so far they have they have a diversified portfolio of litigation claiming everything from fraud to not getting access to vote counts for the most part judges have dismissed the lawsuit that they reviewed saying that they're just not Supported by any significant evidence. We don't need their permission to look into these allegations. We

3 (2m 25s):
owe it to those who voted for President Trump and the country at

1 (2m 28s):
large to test the system. If we

3 (2m 30s):
don't deal with voting by mail in

1 (2m 32s):
2020 will never win the White House again,

3 (2m 35s):
right? Let's talk about the legal challenges for a second because there are many legal challenges right and and the president and members of his legal team keep emphasizing all of these legal challenges and a lot of Republicans are out there saying count Every legal vote as if there were many illegal votes cast here. Are there legitimate legal challenges thus far to this election? I'll just

1 (2m 59s):
start by saying something that might sound not very good at this partisan moment in that. Our ability to audit elections sucks. Right? It is something we should have fixed after

3 (3m 12s):
2000 phrases definitely too close to call and until the results of the recount is concluded. Results of Florida Florida become official our campaign continues

1 (3m 24s):
Phil daily, the chairman of the gore campaign. You just heard it. We're all I think we can hardly believe our ears the something we should have fixed after 2016

3 (3m 36s):
nearly three weeks now after election day and the recount set to begin in Wisconsin and perhaps two more Battleground States, Michigan and Pennsylvania president-elect outraged over the recap and the Clinton team very, Able to point out they are not leading this

1 (3m 51s):
charge. There's a lot of sensible things one can do to make sure these kinds of fears. They don't find themselves staring into a void. That's the ground on which this kind of deliberate sewing of mistrust. Can Thrive that said, there are really no suspicions for the kind of widespread fraud that would overturn the selection or any election and the Florida 2001 is not a good precedent. Because that was one state separated by a couple hundred votes. They know this is going to end but the damage it does to an already lowering of trust in the United States towards a lot of our institutions including our elections.

1 (4m 41s):
Is this going to get much worse and we're all going to pay the price for that and they're going to pay the price for that too in that we're going to have a less well functioning Society everybody who knows anything about this knows this including the GOP leadership and they're just letting the Go on which is terrible.

3 (5m 2s):
It's already happening. Actually, there is a pole Politico published that says 70% of Republicans don't believe this election was free and fair and I know this election didn't quite bolster everyone's faith in polls, but even if 50% of the Republicans right now don't believe that president-elect. Joe Biden is legitimate. That's a democratic

1 (5m 23s):
crisis. It's very troubling and I think I've been writing we have to do things to restore trust in our electoral system pieces for at least 10 years, if not more and I could literally pick one of them and publish it right now and just change a few like dates and places and it would stand because this is no way for a wealthy country to run an election, you know, it is a week after the election and we're still in this, you know, the provisionals this is this and who is updated and what Going on and this glitch in that glitch. And again while there's no evidence or reason to think there's widespread fraud.

1 (6m 8s):
It just keeps getting worse. It's really terrible to see this happen like this.

3 (6m 12s):
I think I know the answer but why is it happening? Why won't Republican leadership condemned the president's false accusations of election fraud. Why won't Republican leadership acknowledge that their friend and colleague. Joe Biden is the president-elect of the United States.

1 (6m 33s):
They're trying to placate the base of the Republican party that overwhelmingly likes this person, right? This is something that may be hard to accept for, you know, a lot of people who just look at this and say, how can they like this guy? But they do and you know what 70 million people voted for him and he's out there crying fraud and riling up people. So the Ace as long as that connection exists the established Republicans the Mitch McConnell's of the world are thinking all right, how do we not you know upset our supporters who are going to vote for us in the future and who voted for them

3 (7m 17s):
this time too because of the outgoing president on on some level,

1 (7m 20s):
right? Yeah exactly who if they were thinking country before party. This is the time to Stage an intervention and say This is it. If you have any proper legal claims, it's been a week on the table now or make that called concede be gracious and then you know, just sort of you can declare Victory to he can just say and he has done this. He has given them a 6-3 republican appointed majority in the Supreme Court. The Republicans look like they're controlling the Senate they have gained in the house. The house Democrats have a razor-thin majority and they control a large number of State Legislature select.

1 (8m 7s):
The Republican party is sitting quite pretty except for the presidency. And the president elect. Joe Biden is something that is not an existential threat to their hold on power. So they could just declare Victory and avert the crisis and I think again, it's just showing one. You let these kinds of populist authoritarian urges and electoral politics out of the bottle. It unleashes things that are destabilizing and dangerous for the country. And I think if like they had a magic wand they were just send them on his way and be happy but when you have a crybaby in the White House, you cannot manage this by finessing it

3 (8m 53s):
does that end soon or does that Playbook Outlast this presidency?

1 (8m 57s):
I think the Playbook is quite likely here to stay his loss is a razor-thin loss in couple of states and that's really important to sort of recognize because voting one person out of office may feel good. But if you have a structural problem, it's quite possible that there will be others. Others without the same kind of liabilities he has which is being incompetent and being a crybaby and tweeting too much for his own good. So he is not the strongest form of this kind of Playbook which brings together sort of this strong man celebrity often somebody with the kind of ability to generate a loyal following.

1 (9m 51s):
With this disregard for the regular institutions of Centrist liberal democracy and win elections, right? This happens around the world and there's no reason to think this won't happen here again in 2024 or 2028 The Playbook is there and it's something that's on the rise around the world.

3 (10m 16s):
more with zeynep in a minute This is Advertiser

1 (10m 26s):
content.

3 (10m 28s):
We now have 2.3

1 (10m 30s):
million people incarcerated in

3 (10m 32s):
America less than seven percent of them

1 (10m 37s):
are incarcerated for violent crime. That's attorney Jeffrey Robinson director of the ACLU trone Center for justice and equality his work inspired the making of who we are a podcast by Ben & Jerry's and produced by Vox creative who we are a Chronicle of racism in Car is hosted by Peabody award-winning journalist Carvel

3 (10m 57s):
Wallace. Surely you knew this was a racist country. What does that mean for us today?

1 (11m 3s):
The prison population in the United States has increased seven hundred percent since 1970. Black Americans make up almost 40% of

3 (11m 11s):
it. We didn't get here by accident. I didn't know these things because I hadn't been taught them. And then the question is why wasn't I taught them because this information it may be hidden, but it's hiding in plain

1 (11m 29s):
sight who we are takes historic look at the disease of racism in America and traces it back to its tipping points. This includes the Tipping Point. We're at today. I think Americans are watching

3 (11m 39s):
and thinking and looking at this issue in ways, they never have before and that's why I say, this is our last Best chance because if we don't get it right this time where America is headed is someplace I don't think anybody wants to go.

1 (11m 56s):
How do we make our last best chance count Listen to Who We Are a podcast I Ben & Jerry's and produced by box creative now streaming wherever you get your

3 (12m 5s):
podcasts. Support for the show today comes from the fair gun and in case you've missed my prior ads for the fair gum, it's a handheld percussive therapy device that releases your deepest muscle tension using a calibrated combination of depth speed and power and it's now as quiet as an electric toothbrush and I'm sure the good people at the fair gun mean the quiet electric toothbrushes out there. Not the loud ones. Some of them are loud. They've got the new gen. If they're a gun, it's got a proprietary brushless motor. That's so quiet. You'll wonder if it's on and then you'll look and you'll see wow, it is on and and you'll be feeling that their gun signature power amplitude and Effectiveness.

3 (12m 53s):
You can try that there are gun risk free for 30 days. There is no substitute for that their gun Gen4 with its OLED screen. It's personalized. They are GunApp and the quiet power you need starting at only $199. You can go to therapy on. Dot coms explained right now and get your Gen4 at their gun today. That is they are gone.com explained that are gone.com / explained. Zeynep before the break you were saying that despite what a lot of Americans might think if you look around the world the outgoing president's leadership style isn't exactly unique.

3 (13m 39s):
How would you contextualize it?

1 (13m 41s):
I would say this is almost textbook authoritarian populist. Mm. And some of the outlines of this. Are you promised more support for the people which is often defined, you know around the world as your support. Earth the thing that I think distinguishes Trump from his counterparts around the world if you want to look at like or bond in hungry, you want to look at both scenario and Brazil you want to look at our go on in Turkey is that those people are talented incompetent politicians right? Trump is not that remember infrastructure week.

3 (14m 24s):
I don't

1 (14m 25s):
actually write like exactly that's my point. Is that the other politicians who? Run on this deliver something to their supporters and they went elections again. Whereas Trump was more interested in. I don't know bookings in this hotel. Then what happened in Wisconsin right to the working class there. He just tweeted about it and he announced this or that there but he's really follow through with any of it in an effective way and had he follows through it's quite possible that he could have cruised. Into re-election. Once again, I want people to sort of understand this he lost by a razor thin margin in couple of states and had he been slightly more competent like had to use depend emic as what a lot of strong men can do crisis.

1 (15m 17s):
I'm here for you and just kind of said, all right, I'll rescue and taking some effective actions early on I think he could have really easily one and people need to understand the Republican Party. Salah dated its gains across the board from the Supreme Court the state legislatures the GOP has this enormous hold on power that is aided by the Anta majoritarian and minority boosting elements of our Constitution which includes the Senate and are boosted by deliberate things like redistricting. So this is this is a dangerous kind of environment to

3 (15m 55s):
have why was this still a very successful election? Republicans when he didn't really deliver on his populist promise what he delivered were tax cuts and a lot of rhetoric about a wall that still hasn't been successfully built. Oh what you need to

1 (16m 13s):
understand couple of things. One of them is that the cares Act was quite successful. I don't think people have kind of internalized this but for so many people their household finances are better, right? Now than before the pentatonic because there was a big welfare state like spending through that legislation looks if you look at the household finances and if you look at people if they're asked are you doing better now economically, then four years ago the majority of people say, yes, which is in fact striking because when you have so many people a majority say they're doing better financially compared to four years ago.

1 (16m 60s):
It's almost unheard of for an incumbent to lose despite that right. So what I'm saying, is that hat even slightly better at the presentation part and not turned off so many people with the vulgarity and everything else. He could have been Cruising Into election. The second thing is I don't think Democratic party and most people understand what they're facing which is a successful populist political. Oracle realignment in this country that is not losing it is making gains. I think on the Democratic side of the aisle.

1 (17m 40s):
There's a lot of denial about the actual state of politics in this country. And that denial May well be boosted by having won against President Trump by a razor thin margin and may blind people to these underlying current. Are still there and very strong and in 2024 will be having this discussion again, because the opposition both in his party and the opposition party. The Democratic party does not rise to the challenge of effective politics against the strain of populism

3 (18m 22s):
and what might that strain look like next in America.

1 (18m 25s):
Well economically speaking it would be a similar set of of promises right a recognition that globalization hasn't worked for everybody in this country the way he talks about corruption those old resonate but you can imagine a version of this that has the same rhetoric and isn't for example say as overtly racist in the rhetoric as he has been it would be someone with the Charisma and the media Following it could be someone like Tucker Carlson's of the world who have us very similar economic populist talk and I hate to be like this Downer person just warning and warning but the reality is like it's from a movie.

1 (19m 15s):
We have seen before around the world and in some ways it was almost like you for the United States to have gotten in incompetent version of this populist right-wing ethno nationalist. And the next one will not be this easy because a lot of talented politicians are looking at this and saying I could go through

3 (19m 36s):
that door. So how can all this momentum be slowed down? I mean, you know can this be fixed?

1 (19m 42s):
I'm a professor and I'm going to say this kind of slightly self-deprecating but I mean this I think a lot of people in the Democratic institutions think tanks ngos running the campaigns are very good students and there's this Expectation that somebody will come and give them a good grade because things were fair or unfair and they tried and I just want to say nobody is going to come and say yeah, the sentence is on Fair Day. No, here's your a that's not how it's going to work. The Senate is on Fair and the job is to figure out how to make it more fair. Despite the fact that yes, it is unfair and nobody's going to wave a magic wand and fix this and the sooner they recognize this reality and just They all right, you know complaining about this isn't going to get us anywhere.

1 (20m 33s):
We can point it out as a part of our electoral strategy, but you can only go so far with that too. And how do you create the kind of moment where you can fix this right the kind of moment where you have the presidency where you have the Senate where you have state legislators, and you pass the Voting Rights Act. That's Federal and that fixes a lot of whatever can be fixed. Being well-meaning is not enough to fix things be recognizing reality and saying okay things aren't Fair things aren't great. But here we are. That's the first step to digging

3 (21m 11s):
out but don't a lot of people not want to dig out. A lot of people don't find the Senate unfair something like 70 million people in this country said keep things the way they are right don't a lot of people like it this way.

1 (21m 23s):
A lot of people may like it that way, but I think we need to make the case that a lower functioning. Aging society that gets every year is not good for anyone. Even if they are temporarily on the winning side of their own political party. It's not good for any of us to have a country that can't handle a pandemic response despite, you know, being home to CDC previously the the Stellar Public Health Organization and this is true like just at so many levels. This is not to anyone's benefit.

3 (21m 59s):
What is that? What does that mean though? Like a lower functioning Society people probably look at this society and don't think it's very functional. So

1 (22m 5s):
that's a no no. No, that's just be fair here. A lot of people are still trying to come here for a reason right? There's a reason that people try to immigrate to the United States. So if people think that this is some non functioning society and that's just the way it is. I want to say as someone not from this country. This is not the base line of low functioning, right? This is in many ways a wealthy country that has a lot of advantages and a lot of things like it's losing but it's losing On my relatively high point for a lot of people so I am not like making light of the existing problems. But when you look at sort of the rest of the World by any measure, we're nowhere near the bottom or even the middle like it's a wealthy country with lots of things that work that are getting worse.

3 (22m 58s):
Remind me what it will look like when it gets worse because it seems bad right now. I don't have a

1 (23m 3s):
crystal ball on what it would look like, but if we don't fix it, it's not going to get better. It's going to get

3 (23m 9s):
worse. Okay zeynep. I appreciate it. Thanks for entertaining my plea to see your crystal ball.

1 (23m 14s):
Sorry about that. But I just want to say like this is not the Hopeless thing. It just requires realism. You can't do through Nostalgia. There are a lot of things that were wrong before so I'm not listing by let's go back to 20 I stopped. Clutching, right? Yeah, I'm not wishing for some past the past was more racist the past was more sexist. Like I'm not wishing for that. But you have to look forward with realism. And once you do that, then you can start trying to reverse this vicious cycle and create a positive one where things improve and then get better intern.

3 (23m 52s):
Zeynep to Vex she she's a contributing writer at the Atlantic and she's got a newsletter called Insight where you can read more of her work. You can find it at zainab. Dotsub stack.com zeynep is Ze y NEP once again for the Commonwealth Z ey n EP dotsub stack.com and just a reminder that all the major news networks. Including Fox News have called the election for Joe Biden, but if you're still worried about his chances with all the dealer Jim mising going on here are the dates to watch the states must certify their results by December 8th and the Electoral College votes December 14th. The outgoing guy can sue all he wants until then but once things are figured out they've closed the books historically Congress rubber stamps and early January inauguration January 20th.

3 (24m 42s):
I'm Sean Rama's firm. Its today explained.