2 (3s):
It was in 2014 when Karthik talaq our first heard the sound this low pitched whine. He was living in this neighborhood in Arizona and Chandler Arizona. He'd moved there with his family and used to decompress after work by taking long walks around the neighborhood at night and it was on one of these nights that he first noticed this low steady wine somewhere in the

3 (30s):
distance. It sounded like a costume. Wine like

2 (36s):
and at first you brush it off. He thought, you know, maybe someone's pool pump, but then a little later night, he heard it again and again and again and night after night after night. He was noticing it as he was going outside to Garden or grill that I was in his backyard and then worse yet. He was trying to go to sleep one night when he noticed that there was that noise inside his house was in his bedroom, and it was keeping him up at night.

3 (1m 3s):
Night, I had a hard time falling asleep. And then after falling asleep around 3 a.m. Or 4 a.m. It would get very loud. And I would wake up

2 (1m 12s):
it sounded as he described it later like these, you know tons of mosquitoes buzzing in your ear only they wouldn't

3 (1m 19s):
stop.

2 (1m 23s):
He tried to move bedrooms. He started sleeping with earplugs when that didn't help. He tied a towel around his head and night after night. He would try and fall asleep with his ear plugs in and his head bandaged and the sound just wouldn't stop.

3 (1m 36s):
It. Looks like constantly it was very irritating and it was very upsetting

2 (1m 41s):
Karthik. Didn't know at this point where the noise was coming from and so he set out to figure out what was causing it and he would go out at night on. But he called these noise patrols first he set out by foot, but when that didn't really work he started to widen his

3 (1m 57s):
circumference and I started expanding the perimeter driving in my car biking the pike to figure out where the noise is coming

2 (2m 4s):
from and he would stop every so often to listen for the noise. After eight weeks or so Karthik finally traced the noise back to what he thought was the source. It was this gray windowless building with all the charm of a shoebox and it belonged. He discovered to a company called Cyrus One Cyrus one was a data center. Basically a columbarium for thousands of servers these servers that were hosting data to make it accessible for processing or access from just about anywhere in the world as Karthik discovered.

2 (2m 45s):
The noise was being unfortunately not caused by something temporary. This wasn't just the noise of construction, but the noise was the steady hum of

3 (2m 54s):
chillers,

2 (2m 56s):
please big. Air conditioning units that had been installed on the buildings and were there in order to keep the server's cool servers sort of like people are most comfortable at around 60 to 90 degrees Fahrenheit. And so these chillers ensured that these heat-generating servers would stay cool enough as they worked. We hear a lot about storing our data in the cloud such a lovely elegant euphemism this idea of our data sort of existing in The Ether. But in fact it exists in places like Cyrus One in some ways the sound of Cyrus ones data center this low E off in the desert.

2 (3m 43s):
That's the sound of us living of us clicking of a searching for the lyrics online shopping poking people on Liking Instagram posts. That's our noise, too. So Karthik began to try and take action to silence this noise Karthik actually reached out directly to someone from Cyrus one called him very late at night when he was unable to sleep because of the noise and this other man said that he was trying to sleep and Karthik told him that

3 (4m 13s):
I'm trying to fall asleep too, dude.

2 (4m 18s):
He took this issue to anyone. He could think of his homeowners association the members of the city council the mayor the police he sent them an email actually

3 (4m 28s):
saying I do not think I'm imagining things here and wasting people's

2 (4m 32s):
time. He added that he'd taken his family with him. And one of these noise

3 (4m 36s):
patrols. I drove my entire family to the same spot and they too could hear the noise

2 (4m 43s):
was told there was nothing they could do he was told it wasn't that big of a deal and yet to The noise just got worse Cyrus One kept building. They were expanding they added more buildings. They bought more land. They added more chillers. There were nice where it Karthik just couldn't get to sleep whatsoever. He started wearing earplugs sometimes during the day when he drive home. It was always with this sense of dread of returning back to the noise. He thought about installing new windows or planting trees to block the sound then the end he decided that even though he'd lose money even though he'd have to move to a smaller house. He was just going to have to sell his home.

2 (5m 27s):
It was around three years after Karthik had first heard the hum that another neighbor of his began to hear this humming coming across the street from her house. Here. We are over half a mile away on Walnut and bluebird

3 (5m 43s):
you walk outside her

2 (5m 44s):
house. And there's a noise. Then there's another neighbor that noticed that there was this constant steady whine like what one person described as sort of like a constantly revving engine or this jet getting ready for

3 (5m 57s):
takeoff. I would describe it as a blender on steroids, but at a distance, so it's like Amy just drills in your head almost like a

2 (6m 6s):
mosquito in the past two and a half years. I can honestly say I've not slept a full night's sleep. Look at the wave like it comes and goes to me. This sounds like someone is down my street in their car. Laying on their horn Non-Stop and finally one of karthik's neighbors who lived nearby but in a slightly different Housing Development began to post these flyers around the neighborhood asking if anyone else had been bothered by the

3 (6m 31s):
wine, this is the lovely noise and we are right next to Dobson Park. We are in the middle of the neighborhood and you can hear it this morning and it kind of strangely relief. I wouldn't say good I would use the word relieved. I was relieved that others are Are having the same issue and that we are going to potentially come together to seek a

2 (6m 53s):
solution eventually with the added force of all these neighbors together. They were able to get a sit-down meeting through the city with Cyrus

3 (7m 3s):
One.

2 (7m 7s):
It's a

3 (7m 7s):
sound that just won't go away allowed harm consuming a Chandler neighborhood. You can hear the hum of those fans. If you're out playing at the park like these kids are tonight. The problem is soaked in the hundreds of neighbors that live across the street

2 (7m 21s):
Cyrus one actually did that they were going to do something about this. They said that they would spend around two million dollars to install noise abatement around the chillers essentially to wrap them in these. I think it's that were designed to muffle some of the sound so there is progress that's being made on this. Although there are neighbors that I spoke with who will tell you that they don't think it's better yet

3 (7m 46s):
Cyrus one told the city. They addressed the noise on 24 of their chillers neighbors say it hasn't

2 (7m 53s):
changed granted. The company is doing something but of course the devilish thing about a noises once you notice it and especially once you're irritated by it, it can be very very hard to unhear there's research that shows that we actually start to listen for the noise that irritates us that we train ourselves to pick it up even better than we did at the outset. So while the low pitched whine plagued the specific neighborhood and Chandler Arizona noise isn't just a problem that exists there all of us are affected by it in ways. I think most of us don't realize or think about I mean noise is this violation That we can't control and to which because of our anatomy.

2 (8m 37s):
We cannot close ourselves off and research shows that the world is getting noisier. I think that noise tends to be this issue that we dismiss as this kind of minor issue for cranks or for the idle rich, but in fact, it's an incredibly widespread problem and one we need to be taken more

3 (8m 57s):
seriously. Coming up the dangers and the weaponization of noise. I'm no I'm hassenfeld filling in for Sean Rama's for him. This is today explained. Maybe you know what you're doing with stocks, but I have this feeling that you don't which is why you should probably check out sofa so Phi is basically investing made easy.

3 (9m 43s):
It's the first investing platform to offer stocks automated investing and crypto all-in-one crypto. And with so far as stock beds, you can get a piece of your favorite Brands stock with as little as a dollar. Here's how it works. First. Go to sofa.com. Explained and create an account then either choose do it yourself or let so phi's automated investing build you a portfolio again you get started with as little as one dollar and listeners who fund their account at so Phi dot coms explained will receive $25 in mystery stock just for signing up mystery stock. Get your free mystery stock at sof i.com explain.

3 (10m 25s):
So file ending Corp CFL number six zero five four six. One two, Today today

2 (10m 38s):
explained

3 (10m 39s):
explained Bianca Bhaskar the Atlantic how big of a problem is noise exactly do people really care about

2 (10m 46s):
it they do and we should all care more about it noise is a huge issue and really it's always been an issue. I mean, the earliest recorded noise complaint is 4,000 years

3 (10m 59s):
old.

2 (11m 2s):
It's from the Epic of Gilgamesh. one of the Gods was so irritated by the racket caused by humans that he and the counsel of God's decided to solve the problem by Exterminating Mankind and there are a number of cases even since the beginning of the year of people shooting each other killing each other in part because of noise and in case there's any doubt as to just how offensive and harmful noise can be I think it's worth noting that that the US Military and law enforcement had actually repeatedly relied on noise as a weapon, you know, they've used it to try and hurry up getting the dictator Manuel Noriega to surrender by actually just pounding his hideout with kiss.

2 (11m 59s):
Troops have used it in Iraq. I mean blasting the battlefield ahead of time what kind of stuff Guns and Roses AC/DC and they've used noise in the form of a torture technique Eminem to the Meow Mix

3 (12m 15s):
jingle. The only one cats ask for by name.

2 (12m 23s):
It sounds miserable meow meow. Meow. Meow. Meow. Meow. Meow. Meow. Meow. Is there like a technical

3 (12m 30s):
definition of noise? What's what's the best way to think about

2 (12m 33s):
it? There are various definitions of noise, but noise is slightly different from sound noise already that word implies sound with a judgment right sound that is annoying sound. It is disturbing and part of what makes Such a difficult thing to fight is that it is subjective. I spoke with an acoustic expert who described it to me as sound is when you mow your lawn noise is when your neighbor ammos their lawn and music is when your neighbor mows your Lon. And I think what's tricky about noise as a kind of faux is that it doesn't leave a trace it vanishes when you go after it.

2 (13m 20s):
It's hard to measure it's hard to describe. And again, it's subjective, you know your music literally sometimes right if you're living in an apartment with your neighbors blasting music is often times my noise, you know one also thing to keep in mind is that noise isn't necessarily loud. I think a lot of us had this idea that That sound has to be at a really high volume to drive us crazy. And if you ever tried to sleep through like a dripping faucet, you know that something can be very quiet and still drive you up the wall

3 (13m 53s):
so it can be like annoying for people but is it actually bad? Is it bad for your health or anything like

2 (13m 59s):
that? Yeah. Well, there's certain short-term effects of noise. So in response to noise, you know, we really stress hormones or blood pressure goes up our heart rate Rises and our body can respond to noise, especially at night as low as around 33 decibels, which is around as loud as a purring cat. Studies have shown that over long periods of time prolonged exposure to noise can lead to a higher risk of high blood pressure coronary heart disease heart attacks Strokes diabetes dementia depression. It can be very harmful to Children. There was a landmark study that was done in the 70s that there were two classrooms in a school in New York.

2 (14m 41s):
One of which was very close to the clatter of a Subway track and they found that the reading level of that. Noisy classroom was actually around a year behind that of students in a quieter classroom and that difference disappeared. Once they installed some noise abatement to reduce the sound.

3 (15m 2s):
Is it mostly affecting people that live in cities. Is it affecting certain types of populations

2 (15m 7s):
differently noise levels tend to be higher in poor communities as well as neighborhoods that have higher populations of black Asian and Latino residents. And in fact these researchers thought that their numbers might actually underestimate the difference because people who are wealthier probably take soundproofing measures to even further protect themselves from any noise that may

3 (15m 30s):
exist like you're paying a premium for silence when you pay more for housing or

2 (15m 34s):
something or even quiet the quiet is something that's only accessible to people who work on Lush corporate campuses or have the money to go to spas or silent yoga retreats or you name it to escape again, I think we often think about noise as being this kind of one percent problem something that people they complain about the leaf blowers at their vacation homes, but in fact noise can have an undue burden on people that don't have the resources to protect themselves from it. There really is a concern that silence and quiet is becoming a

3 (16m 6s):
luxury I imagine there are different laws in different places about this. Is there like a national law against noise in any way

2 (16m 17s):
the federal government briefly had an appetite for noise legislation in the 70s in 1972. The Nixon Administration passed a federal noise statute designed to quiet the country, but in 1981, just nine years later the Reagan Administration withdrew funding for that and so since then as one of these noise experts put it the federal government has essentially been out of the His business and the burden has fallen to local governments to really take charge on quieting their constituents.

3 (16m 49s):
So if the burden is falling to local communities, what kind of regulations do they have? How do you even stop things like this

2 (16m 56s):
in general local noise codes tend to be either qualitative or quantitative qualitative basically prohibits any sort of noise that is disturbing or unreasonably loud, but they don't go so far as to Define what constitutes institute's disturbing or unreasonably loud a quantitative noise code on the other hand will Define in quantitative measurable terms. What is disturbing or unreasonably loud? So New York City for example has a quantitative noise code There are rules that say that a dog can't bark for more than 10 contiguous minutes between 7 a.m. And 10 p.m.

2 (17m 36s):
I believe that's what it says, but between like 10 p.m. And 7 a.m. I believe a dog can only bark for five consecutive. That was not

3 (17m 42s):
it wait. Seriously that that's a real thing.

2 (17m 46s):
Yeah, I mean if a dog is barking for three continuous minutes at 2:00 in the morning, I think technically it's okay, but there are noise researchers who argue that even with these measurements we may not be measuring noise correctly noise codes tend to not put as much weight on. Let's say very low frequency noise that can be a travel very far distances and B can be felt. I mean low frequency noise that's things like the rattle from a subwoofer or the thudding of a bus outside things that you may feel right more than you can actually hear them.

3 (18m 25s):
Yeah. I remember when I lived in New York. I lived over this restaurant and they would play music pretty late at night and I went down to ask them to you know, turn it down and it just wasn't that loud down there. I mean, I could feel it upstairs because of the base but down there just seemed like it was at a normal volume,

2 (18m 41s):
right? But I'm sure you were annoyed by it was annoying. It's hard to sleep. I mean not to worry you but it probably wasn't very good for you either.

3 (18m 48s):
So with the Cyrus one example, you said they ended up wrapping the chillers to make the noise better. Even if you're not exactly sure if that ended up working, but did they have to do that? Was it because of a noise code violation?

2 (19m 1s):
I know from speaking with a local police commander in Chandler that there wasn't really appetite to issue a citation to Cyrus One. It wasn't something that At least at the time they felt had violated the noise code when the city issued the permits they weren't required to consider the noise footprint of Cyrus one nor did they? I think what was frustrating for the Neighbors was that the police would come and Sample the sound whereas they were living with it. What can be kind of tolerable during a brief visit something very different when it's inescapable. And so Cyrus One hasn't to my knowledge technically violated some code or ordinance that the city has put in place and nonetheless.

2 (19m 50s):
They are trying as they put it to be good neighbors and are taking some efforts to try and quiet themselves.

3 (19m 57s):
Okay, so just to be clear. It's really noisy out there and the regulations that we do have aren't exactly doing too much. Do we just have to get used to a noisy

2 (20m 8s):
world? I think it's important to appreciate the way that the nature of Waze is changing it used to be that a lot of the noise was created by the human hand, you know, we were ringing Bells. We were driving carriages. We were crying as Town criers And now when you look at the noise that's being produced. I think one thing that's kind of chilling is the way that it's become autonomous right machines are inexhaustible source of noise, you know their vocal cords, don't Tire they don't need to take a break they can just keep Keep going and they can be Amplified. Of course people who spend a lot of time and quiet, you know talk about really being able to tune into yourself more to not be accosted with this external activation all of the time because we have become so surrounded by noise.

2 (21m 5s):
I think a lot of us have responded by adding our own noise to it. You know we ourselves from outside Noise by giving ourselves personal noise We listen to podcasts we listen to music. And so, you know, I think in some ways that may not be helping the problem. I mean, I do want people to listen to the end of this podcast, but you know, I also think that in some ways we've reacted defensively to Noise by adding more noise, right? I think it raises the question of if we took out our earphones if we had to listen to the sound of our cities of our environments where we here, do you like it?

2 (21m 47s):
I'll be bothered by it. If we are bothered by it, let's do something about it.

3 (21m 52s):
I wonder if people haven't turned us off already. Maybe we can give him a couple seconds of

2 (21m 56s):
quiet. You gotta ruin it. Bianca Bhaskar is a contributing

3 (22m 15s):
writer for the Atlantic. She also writes books

2 (22m 18s):
her most recent one is called cork dork and it's all about

3 (22m 21s):
wine. Thanks Bianca for connecting us with Karthik talakad. I'm no I'm hassenfeld filling in for Sean ramas Burnham. This is today.

2 (22m 28s):
Explain.