0 (1s):
Support for the show. And it comes from Salesforce who believes that the experience you get from business matters as much as the product they sell. Salesforce is a cloud-based software company that brings customers and companies together. And with Salesforce, digital 360 users can bring sales, service, marketing, commerce it and analytics together in one place, go to S F D C dot C O slash inspiring digital to see how some of your favorite brands use Salesforce digital 360 that's SFDC dot C O slash inspiring digital to get started today.

2 (40s):
This episode is brought to you by the Disney bundle. This winter. There is something for everyone with the Disney bundle on Disney plus watch unforgettable stories like the book of Boba Fett and encounter on Hulu. Watch originals like Penn 15, and the great end on ESPN. Plus score big with man in the arena, Tom, Brandy and NHL get more of what you love with the Disney bundle for only 13,909 per month includes Hulu ad supported plan access content from each service separately terms apply. See the Disney bundle.com for details.

0 (1m 20s):
The top ranked men's tennis player in the whole wide world. Recently board a plane to Australia with hopes of winning another title, and instead wound up in immigration purgatory. And before we explore how exactly that happened, there are a few things you need to know about Novak Djokovich first. He has a pension for getting himself into trouble. You might remember when he was recently booted from the U S open after losing a point. When he smashed a ball in anger and accidentally hit a line person in the throat. Second, he's really obsessed with what he puts in his body. He famously attributes much of his record-breaking success on the court to a Serbian nutritionist who held a piece of white bread against his stomach in 2010 and determined he had a gluten allergy.

0 (2m 2s):
And lastly, Djokovich, if he wins this Australian open will go down as the goat, the greatest men's tennis player of all time, title 21 edging out Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal at present. They're all tied at 20 titles that sets the stage for this year's Australian open in Melbourne, which is set to begin Monday.

3 (2m 24s):
So Melbourne prides itself on being the sporting capital of Australia.

0 (2m 32s):
Tom Maddix prides himself on being a sports reporter at ABC. The Australian broadcasting corporation

3 (2m 39s):
And the Australian open is really one of a few major events that run each year in Melbourne is known as the happy slam, which is a phrase that was initially coined by none of them than Roger Federer,

4 (2m 54s):
The best time as a family and as a team. So thank you very much for just it so special. Like Marin said, you guys are unbelievable as a country and people,

3 (3m 3s):
So this happy slam it runs in Australia is summer. It gets very, very hot, indeed 104 degrees at the Australian open up there and Melbourne shoots the opening grand slam. It's the first of the grand slams and the players love it. And so to the spectators and the media, indeed, it's been tough for Melburnians. We had spent more than 245 days in lockdown during the length of the pandemic. More days of locked

5 (3m 35s):
Down than any other major city

3 (3m 37s):
In the world. You know, it's a multi-layered context which might go towards explaining the reaction or the response form, the Victorian and the Australian public to this Nova Djokovich saga. And so that reputation of these land, he's really on the line at the moment it's under threats.

0 (4m 4s):
And it's notable here that, that at last year's Australian open, you know, athletes were given an exception and that was controversial, right?

3 (4m 13s):
Totally. If there's a sniff of double standards in Australia, then there's funeral, you know, we've got a very much a case of the tall poppy syndrome. So that's why a guy like Djokovich would be well, if you're basically your we'll cut you down, if you're too good. And so Novak Djokovic is a guy who's good, right? But he kind of shows it in his attitude in some ways. And he's, he's quite a confident fellow. And so I think not being vaccinated aside, he's quite a contentious figure in, in Australian consciousness.

3 (4m 53s):
And so if there's a sniff of, of double standards and these stars, these athletes getting some exception and we don't like it. So, so last year's tournament, as you suggest, was pretty contentious in itself.

5 (5m 6s):
And many are very suspicious of all these players arriving with the risk of an increase in community transmission of COVID, which has virtually been eradicated. And they're in a really, really good situation compared to anybody else who's quarantining in Australia, including Australia, but sending home, not only are they allowed out, but they're also in five star hotels

3 (5m 25s):
And this year there's been an expectation. It would go ahead. But really preparations have been quite overshadowed by this doubt surrounding no back DACA, bitches, vaccination status. Djokovich

7 (5m 37s):
Personally I'm opposed to vaccination. And I wouldn't want to be forced by someone to take a vaccine in order to be

3 (5m 43s):
Able to travel. The media here have repeatedly covered how he's been deliberately opaque. And that he's refused to say if he's been jabs, but he had said, he'd been waiting out for tennis Australia and, and the government's here to outline the rules for the tournament.

0 (6m 3s):
So that's the setup, where does this current controversy began?

3 (6m 6s):
So on the night prior to him leaving to fly to Australia, he posted on Instagram, a photo of him with some tennis bags packed. It looked like it was outside an airport, you know, almost on the tarmac basically. And his posts basically said, you know, happy new year, happy and healthy, you know, thanks for your support. Just wanting to let you know that I'm headed down under with an exemption permission, interesting phrasing there. So that really put in motion a number of fresh headlines, because we weren't quite expecting that.

3 (6m 48s):
To be honest, before he arrived,

8 (6m 50s):
Australia's prime minister had a warning. We are white, his presentation, and what evidence he provides to support that if that evidence is insufficient, then he won't be treated any different to anyone else. And it will be on the next plane home.

3 (7m 4s):
He lands at about half past 11 on Wednesday night, last week. And he's in fact produced his certificate or his documents prior to boarding the plane that, that emerged in the court case. And then he was coming through customs, through border force, as we call it in Australia, immigration authorities. And he produces these documents, which have a letterhead of tennis Australia. And he produces this so-called medical exemption and border force are unhappy. They're not happy with the documents is produced and he's detained.

3 (7m 45s):
His father says that he's been detained in a room without his phone under armed the guard and effectively it's a bit of a limbo situation. And the media is waiting outside where we think Novak Djokovich is being effectively detained by immigration authorities. And then we get the word from the government, the Commonwealth government that is, which is an important distinction here that they've decided to revoke his visa.

0 (8m 23s):
Why is the Commonwealth government and important distinction?

3 (8m 26s):
It's a quite a bureaucratic country, Australia. In many ways, we have state governments and we have local councils and we also have a federal government. A Commonwealth government is important in this case because they've made the decision, the Commonwealth government to rescind his visa, but he had been granted this medical exemption, Avaya to medical panels established by tennis and by the health department in the state of Victoria. So effectively the Victorian government seemingly for knowing about Djokovich, he's been given the all clear the green light from not one, but two medical independent medical bodies.

3 (9m 12s):
He's got to Australia. And then the federal government denies that exemption. And then what proceeds is just a litany of buck, passing politicians. Handballing tennis officials. Handballing the issue around nobody really wanted to touch it at that point.

0 (9m 32s):
And in the meantime, you've got one of the biggest tennis stars in the world. One of the most legendary athletes to play the game, basically in some sort of immigration jail,

3 (9m 45s):
You could put it that way. I mean, he's taken from Melbourne's Tullamarine, airports it to an immigration hotel, detention,

9 (9m 53s):
Immigration detention hotel, where Novak Djokovich is being kept,

3 (9m 57s):
You know, a pretty basic hotel on the outskirts of Melbourne CBD and what emerged pretty quickly, what the media established was. He was being put in the same hotel as a group of asylum seekers.

9 (10m 15s):
Bonnie has been here for five months now, after being moved from another facility,

10 (10m 20s):
I live in Lubbock too, and Joe college live.

3 (10m 24s):
So there was this great dichotomy, I guess, between this Serbian tennis player, this privileged healthy athlete. And then these refugees who had been in that hotel since late 2020, and in fact had been in one form of detention in Australia for up to nine years,

10 (10m 50s):
We've been saved every day by containers. We found a Margol and mode on a bread. And

3 (10m 58s):
What proceeded then was not only Novak fans outside that hotel, but refugee advocates, those refugee advocates decided then to try and highlight as best they could. The plight of the refugees who had been detained in that hotel for much, much longer than by Djokovich.

0 (11m 18s):
Of course, unlike those asylum seekers, Novak Djokovich isn't long for this hotel detention center, he lawyers up and gets out. Yeah, yeah,

3 (11m 29s):
Yeah. I ends up spending four nights in there, but he engages some top barristers in Melbourne. There's a court hearing in the federal circuit and family court in Melbourne. And basically the ruling sensationally, the outcome of this court hearing that was handed down on Monday evening was that a Djokovich hadn't been afforded a enough time on that morning when he was detained by authorities and when they decided to revoke his visa. So when they made that decision, the judge ruled that he wasn't given enough time to respond,

0 (12m 11s):
But that doesn't necessarily mean he can play tennis. It doesn't.

3 (12m 14s):
And this is one of the bizarre things about this story. So you would think that if a judge rules in a case, then that's, you know, basically game set and match, right? But as the situation stands, the federal immigration minister, Alex Hawk, he has this discretionary power to re cancel on Novak Djokovic's visa and send him home.

0 (12m 46s):
And in the meantime, since this decision to let Novak stay on on Monday in Australia, what have we learned about how he got a medical exemption to begin with?

3 (12m 58s):
And what we've learned since then is that nobody Djokovich had a test and tested positive to Corona virus on the 16th of December, that was part of this exemption he was given. So that was certainly the impression that he was given from tennis Australia,

5 (13m 17s):
If he had tested positive at any point. In fact, in the last six months, that enables you to defer your vaccination and to enter Australia without having the vaccination proof.

3 (13m 28s):
But what's emerged is a number of photos of Novak Djokovich in the days following showing him attending public events. I think there's an event with kids who are learning to play tennis. He's photographs with them, shaking their hands, arms around their shoulders, no mask. Wow. He also takes some press photos for the publication Likiep and we don't know when Djokovich was notified of that positive result. Mind you, but alongside these photos, it's also emerged that it appears as though he hasn't quarantined for the 14 days as per the requirement.

3 (14m 8s):
When you do return a positive results in Serbia, it's also emerged that despite declaring on his travel declaration form in arriving in Australia, that he hasn't traveled in the past 14 days, it appears he has, it appears he's traveled from Belgrade to Spain in the last two weeks. So questions have emerged basically asking whether no that Djokovich has lied.

0 (14m 36s):
So he's either lying about a positive test result or perhaps a one man super spreading roadshow. It doesn't

3 (14m 44s):
Look good either way. Does it

0 (14m 46s):
Really? And coincidentally, if he does get on that court, he may very well become the most winning tennis player in the history of the men's game. And that's,

3 (14m 57s):
That's the thing that's what's at stake here is that politics and the drama aside there is so much at stake for Novak Djokovic. At the moment, he sits on 20 grand slam singles titles, along with the great Raphael natal, the great Roger Federer. But of course, Roger Federer is not here in Melbourne for this year's tournament. He's recovering from injury and he couldn't make it out this year. Rapha and the dials here, despite testing positive to COVID-19 recently, but of course he's the king of, of clay. And so Novak Djokovich, this is his domain is won this title, this grand slam nine times, which is very, very impressive.

3 (15m 42s):
And Dady one at last year he's fit and healthy and ready to go as hard from contracting COVID-19 seemingly a couple of weeks ago. And so, you know, if there wasn't this drama, and if you were a betting, man, you'd be putting your money on Novak Djokovich to win the Australian open this year.

0 (16m 9s):
Maybe you completely get why an athlete wouldn't want to put some vaccine in their body, but athletes seem especially susceptible to medical quackery to like more than you think that's an a minute on today explained

11 (16m 41s):
It's a new year. So it started off on the right foot, build a solid financial future for yourself. By checking out wealthfront.com. Wealthfront was designed by financial experts to help you start investing with ease and clarity. If you're just getting started with investing, you can rely on their classic portfolio, but if you're already good at the whole investing thing, you can just use wealth front to simply rebalance your existing portfolio. Wealth front is here to get you invested in what interests you and make informed credible decisions to start building your wealth today and get your first $5,000 managed for free for life.

11 (17m 23s):
Go to wealth, front.com/explained that's w E a L T H F R O N t.com/explained to start building your wealth, go to wealth, front.com/explained to get started today.

0 (17m 45s):
Support for the shelter day. Once again comes from sales force. Salesforce wants to help your business that use cloud software data to help companies create a digital footprint and what their Salesforce digital 360 program. You can have the Salesforce platform tailored just the way you like it. Digital 360 combines. Salesforce is industry leading cloud database to give customers as scalable data-driven and single source of truth for personalizing customer experiences. And it does it all with your trust and data security at the heart of every experience, truth, trust, heart, more relationships, more revenue, more return, more success that Salesforce digital 360 Salesforce customers are sharing their digital 360 stories in fun films, interviews and impressive case studies go to sfdc.com/inspiring digital to see how some of your favorite brands use Salesforce.

0 (18m 43s):
Digital 360, that is SFDC dot C O slash inspiring digital to get started today. Corbin Smith. You write about sports. You wrote about sports and athletes who question vaccines for the daily beast. And it turns out it's not just,

12 (19m 9s):
No, I mean, it's not just any one person in any profession. It really reminds me of another tendency of athletes. You know, they tend to get linked into some scientific woo-hoo type stuff. You know, Aaron Rogers on the green bay, Packers, Kyrie Irving, and place for the nets and you know, lots of other lesser known players. It's pretty uncommon, but there's a few of them and they all seem to really stick out.

0 (19m 35s):
And you think a group of people with access to, you know, some of the best doctors in the world whose whose profession has been interrupted by COVID-19 would be, you know, the easiest group to get universally vaccinated. But why aren't they,

12 (19m 52s):
If you look back into the history of all this professional athletes is a group they've always been attracted to quack science. There's a lot of examples of it around history. I mean, so the fact that this is linked onto some athletes, I mean, it shouldn't be that surprising. They're always looking for alternatives.

0 (20m 8s):
This isn't a COVID thing you're saying this is, this is going back in time. How far back does this go?

12 (20m 13s):
The dang 19th century Fox. There was a picture of, from St. Louis. His name is Jim Galvin. PUD was his nickname

0 (20m 23s):
PUD. Yeah,

12 (20m 25s):
He was called PUD. He was short. And so there's a part of me that thinks that like, it was actually called pood because he was short and they were like, Ooh, that little good. But they said it was because his pitching would turn his opponents into pudding at the map, had a great career, but in 1889, worried about losing his agile at all. You know what I mean? And so he turned to Charles Edward, the brown sick card, a neurologist who actually was a legitimate scientist in a lot of ways who contributed to neurology, things like that. Brown card, what together at some point, brown sicarda looks at what it was, was an extract made from dog and Guinea pig, testicles, excuse me.

12 (21m 12s):
An extract made from a dog in Guinea pig, testicles that did what? Well, it was supposed to work as a sort of hormone injection. So pod would have this injected into him and he and brands Deckard were operating on the idea that like, yeah, it's animal testosterone. It's going to Jack you up. It's testosterone. Now on a certain level, France card is rights in the abstract because there are injectable testosterones that do make it easier for you to train. But they're human ones. They're like synthetic human ones. They're not dog and Guinea pig ones. Somebody did do a study on the brown card formula and it does not work.

12 (21m 57s):
Here's the messed up part is that pod kind of got his groove back. Oh, it worked well. Yeah. You know, and he, he would like tell the reporters like, no, yeah, I got Guinea pig testosterone flowing through my veins and reporters were like, oh, that's great. And people would say like, yeah, absolutely, man, that is awesome. I wish our players would use this a dog nut juice. And which is also a little weird because like a hundred years later it would become like the primary moral panic in America that a professional athlete might use steroids. Can you believe it? Yeah. But you know, it didn't really work, but you know, the placebo effect exists. It might've given a little mental edge or, you know, baseball players.

12 (22m 40s):
There's a lot of gear to your variation in their careers. And it's possible that he started taking dog testosterone. And then he got lucky. So, you know, who knows

0 (22m 52s):
What are some more recent examples of professional athletes, you know, deferring to medical quackery.

12 (22m 59s):
Let me tell you about a little device called the power bounds bracelet. What I have

13 (23m 4s):
And straight forward you today is a revolutionary new product. What we've been able to do is harness naturally occurring frequencies and program them into a Mylar hologram to help improve your balance, your strength and your flexibility,

0 (23m 15s):
The power balance,

12 (23m 16s):
The power balance bracelet folks. It did. It did some incredible magic. Here's what it was. It was a bracelet and it had a little hologram in it. And if you wore it, they said it would improve your balance.

13 (23m 29s):
The things about this product is that they don't actually need to be wearing it. They can either be holding it. I could set it on the top of his head. It wouldn't matter. All that matters is that the product is within one to three inches of your body's energy field. So

0 (23m 38s):
Now we're we're athletes having a difficult time.

12 (23m 42s):
I, there it's. Yeah, you do have a difficult time balancing when you are pushing your body to the limits of balance. You know what I mean? Like it's easy for us to balance. We're we're soft. We're soft boys. There's not a lot of stress that we're putting on our bodies or these guys, they got to turn on a dime 10 times a night. They got to do everything they can to not fall down and not lose that dang ball. So somebody said, yeah, well, you know, these hologram beliefs they'll keep you balanced. And some athletes said, yeah, all right. Now one of them was shack. He cut an advertisement for them.

14 (24m 16s):
What do you do? A lot of testimonials, but this works. My name is Shaquille O'Neal. And I'm one of the power balance generals.

12 (24m 25s):
I will say this about shack. I suspect that Shaq knew it was a grip, but they paid lots of money. Yes. The man, the man loves his money and his end is cannier than he appears.

14 (24m 37s):
I got a question for the folks that radio, who was in charge of spelling around here,

12 (24m 42s):
But Lamar Odom, not as canny as Shaquille O'Neil like legitimately invested in the company, like gave them money. It did not end well because eventually the company did pay out and a class action lawsuit for misleading advertising, because they said that a bracelet with a hologram and it made you balanced better. Okay. We're still talking about athletes who are retired. How about contemporary athletes? Brady, Tommy Brady, baby Thomas Brady. Thomas Brady, Thomas Edward, Patrick Brady junior. Wait, is it really Thomas? Edward Patrick Brady Yemen. Oh my God. Yes. All of them first operated is vaccinated. Hooray, I guess. But he Brady had started working with this trader named Alex Guerrero and called them.

12 (25m 26s):
It was body coach out Guerrero has been banned or, you know, sanctioned by the FTC for referring to himself as a doctor. He totally just pedals a bunch of weird fake cures for things. But Brady, you know, hooked up with him and he got really into this theory of working out. That was basically that you didn't need to be, you know, jacked to stay healthy. What you needed was the ability for your muscles to like absorb contact and then bounce back. Huh?

15 (25m 57s):
I ability is at the core of the TB 12 lifestyle. It's what keeps me going on the field year after year.

12 (26m 4s):
Now it should go without saying, this is not, this is nonsense. It's nonsense. No, this is not real. Okay. There's nothing scientific. There's never been a double-blind study. But what Brady did was that he doubled down, he went as deep into this as he possibly could. And he, and yeah, you got into business with Guerrero and there was a TB 12 training facility that was built across the street from the Patriot's facility. And a lot of Patriots would like go get treatment there. Okay. Brainy, vaccinated, Aaron Rogers, not vaccinated. And

0 (26m 43s):
Also, you know, a recent host of the jeopardy program. What's his deal.

12 (26m 48s):
And a winter on jeopardy, a man of knowledge, a man of knowledge guys stood up for Kaepernick, but he said

0 (26m 53s):
He was listening to Joe

12 (26m 54s):
Rogan. All the best minds of our generation have been whistled into the ocean by Joe Rogan's beautiful siren song.

0 (27m 2s):
Is there any, through-line here from, you know, PUD in the 19th century to Aaron and Novak and Kyrie and, and, and I guess less so Tom Brady and, and in the, in the 21st,

12 (27m 16s):
I think ties all this stuff together is the sense of athletes wanting to be in control of their own bodies. Like putt is getting dinged by the ravages of time and happens to us. All PUD wants to feel like he's in control of his career. So he injects, you know, Guinea pig, testicle extract. It's the same thing with Brady where like this stuff might not work, but it gives Brady an intense sense that he is in control here. And, you know, I it's the same with Irving's the same with Rogers. The fact of the matter is that they want control over their own bodies.

12 (27m 57s):
When you are a professional athlete, your body becomes a commodity and anything. And I think that part of the reason that people sort of latch onto these sort of stray things, they want to feel like they're in control of the commodity that is going to pay for the rest of their life.

0 (28m 18s):
I mean, the stakes are higher for athletes, right? The stakes

12 (28m 21s):
Are incredibly high for athletes.

0 (28m 23s):
And in the case of Novak Djokovich, who is on the cusp of becoming the most winning champion in the history of men's tennis, the stakes literally couldn't be any higher. I mean, should we be giving athletes like him a bit more of, I don't know, a pass or some leeway for hesitating to, to mess with their physiology.

12 (28m 47s):
I think that the government should do anything in their power to make life as inconvenient for unvaccinated people as possible. So like practically no, but philosophically, yeah. Cut him a break. Like, like when your body is your, is your stock and trade. I think that it makes sense that you're paranoid about it.

0 (29m 17s):
Is there a lesson here for those of us who are not professional athletes? Is there something we can take away from, from the story of Novak Djokovic and the company that he's in?

12 (29m 28s):
It's all just a struggle for control. I think that, I think that a normal standard anti-vaxxer has the same craving for control that a professional athlete does.

0 (29m 55s):
Corbin Smith writes about sports among other things. You can find his writing on Aaron Rodgers and Kyrie Irving and company over at the daily beast. Earlier in the show you heard from Tom Maddix, he's with the ABC in Australia, I'm Sean Rama's from, with Vox in Washington, DC. Our show today was produced by our lead tennis correspondent will read with an assist from Victoria Chamberlain. It is today explained.