0 (1s):
We have clients that are Titanic enthusiasts, which we refer to as Titania. We've had people who have mortgaged their home to come and do the trip. And we have people who don't think twice about a trip of this, this cost.

1 (14s):
For the record, the trip cost $250,000. That was Stockton Rush, the founder of OceanGate Expeditions and one of five men who died when a submersible bound for the wreckage of the Titanic imploded today unexplained a deep sea explorer. And a friend of one of the passengers tells us that he saw this coming.

2 (35s):
It's the old line that says, A man needs to know his limitations and you just can't fix stupid and stupid games will win you stupid prizes. It was unnecessary. Everyone in the industry knew that this vessel had no business. Being out there had no business being on the Titanic, none

4 (1m 0s):
On criminal. We bring you true crime stories told by people who know them best.

5 (1m 7s):
We didn't believe in setting fires cuz that was too dangerous. We were, you know, kind a gentler kind of crooks, so to speak.

4 (1m 14s):
So the best plan you had was that you'd so it

6 (1m 17s):
Yes. Never imagined I'd use it for a camel.

4 (1m 22s):
I'm Phoebe Judge, and this is criminal. Did you have to say what was in the box,

3 (1m 27s):
Phoebe? We told lies,

4 (1m 29s):
Listen to criminal every week, wherever you get your podcasts.

7 (1m 41s):
When I was a kid, years before I came out, I watched certain movies and TV shows and felt a kind of queer awakening from them. I was not alone.

8 (1m 52s):
I definitely had a VHS copy that saw a good amount of wear and hair around that minute. But at the time, didn didn't even really understand the way it made me feel.

7 (2m 7s):
The film and TV that helped us be queer. this week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast,

1 (2m 26s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. Yesterday morning I talked to Joanna Sugden. She's an editor and a reporter at the Wall Street Journal, and she had been covering the submersible since it went missing.

10 (2m 43s):
So the submersible was meant to go on a eight to 10 hour dive, taking two hours to reach the site because it's 13,000 feet underwater. Then spend six to eight hours sort of viewing the, the wreckage re ascending for another two hours, but it set up for 8:00 AM and an hour and 45 minutes into the voyage, it lost communication with the mothership on the surface, which it's meant to communicate every 15 minutes. People who've been on it, say, every 15 minutes you get a, a text message telling you, you know, your location and where you are in a certain grid pattern that they've divided the ocean that they're exploring into.

10 (3m 29s):
My understanding is that an hour and 45 minutes into that, those communications stopped being responded to. GPS doesn't work underwater. So, and at those depths I've heard tracking devices, some sometimes do fail, and when it didn't arrive back at 3:00 PM as expected, they alerted the Coast Guard, the OceanGate crew who waiting on the, the ship above. And at about 5:00 PM the search was begun.

11 (4m 1s):
A massive search operation is underway to find the missing Titan submersible 900 miles east of Cape Cod and possibly 13,000 feet below the surface.

12 (4m 12s):
It is a race against time. You're fighting oxygen levels. They should have a day or two more left of oxygen also fighting the cold.

1 (4m 26s):
Tell me about the vessel itself. What does it, what does it look like? What does it structured like?

10 (4m 32s):
So it's a, a unique design which Stockton Rush developed. It's kind of like a cylindrical design. And most of these submersibles before this have been spherical. So this cylinder is, allows more people aboard and allows a bigger viewing porthole.

0 (4m 51s):
So this is not your grandfather's submersible. We only

10 (4m 54s):
Have one bike, essentially, like for one of a better analogy, like sitting in a big toilet roll about the size of a minivan. You can fit five people inside and there are no seats. So you're crouched in, crunched up altogether. There are videos online of Stockton Rush showing that the whole thing just has one button. It

0 (5m 16s):
Should be like an elevator, you know, it shouldn't take a lot of skill

10 (5m 20s):
And it's controlled by a, a video game controller. So it's, it's very basic in design, which some people have said, you know, that's the beauty of it. That very little can go wrong because it is so simple.

0 (5m 32s):
There's certain things that you want to be buttoned down. So the pressure vessel is not MacGyver at all because that's where we work with Boeing and NASA and the University of Washington. Everything else can fail. Your thrusters can go, your lights can go, you're still gonna be safe.

1 (5m 46s):
Who are the people who went inside this vessel and who paid $250,000 to go on this expedition?

10 (5m 53s):
Aside from Stockton Rash who's a we understand we'll probably have been piloting the vessel. There is a British Pakistani businessman and his son who is understood to have just finished his first year at university. Science

13 (6m 8s):
And technology can also bring about higher productivity, but it can also bring about betterment for women.

10 (6m 14s):
There was Hamish Harding, who is himself an aviator and explorer. He has got Guinness World Records for the longest and the deepest dives in submersibles. He went to the Mariana Trench a few years ago. He last year went on the Blue Origin space flight. A friend I spoke to of his said, you know, when there is a something new to do that is an adventure, you will find Hamish doing it because he has the resources but also the guts to do so.

14 (6m 46s):
It's the challenge of going somewhere that practically nobody else has gone to. The extremes down there are phenomenal.

10 (6m 53s):
Then there is Paul Henry Nale, who is one of the world's, if not the world's experts on the Titanic and has dived multiple times to the rat. He has gathered materials from it. E

15 (7m 10s):
Everybody can find something and when you start to put your nose in the Titanic, you can get out after you're stuck on it.

10 (7m 18s):
Yeah. So it is kind of a, it's a commercial operation with, with science, you know, at its heart

1 (7m 26s):
You've laid out a scenario in which there was obviously an incredible amount of risk and there were also experienced people involved. Did anyone anticipate that something like this could happen? Were there warnings?

10 (7m 39s):
Yes, there was a lawsuit brought by someone who was fired after he raised concerns about the research and development that was going on.

16 (7m 49s):
It's among his claims with his Titan submersible was that it was only, the porthole was only certified for a depth of 4,300 feet, but it's operating at 12,000 plus feet. He also says there was no unmanned testing of the submersible and that the hull integrity alarm would alert just milliseconds before an implosion.

10 (8m 9s):
So there was a kind of back and forth

17 (8m 11s):
Concerns were also raised by engineers from the Marine Technology Society over the experimental approach adopted by OceanGate that could result in negative outcomes from minor to catastrophic.

10 (8m 22s):
Those who were on board sign a waiver before they go, which is very detailed. And so I've read some of it. I've seen some of it that says, you know, you agree to put your life at risk for one, you know, in more legalistic language than that. But you know, the chance of death here is it's listed throughout. There are many ways in which you could die and you have to sign away your li the liability for that before you go aboard. It is an untested, unregulated industry. Those of abroad do know that. I was just watching an interview with Paul Henry Nale this morning.

18 (9m 2s):
The real problem at this death is a temperature because water temperature is 33 degree or something like that. And If, you are in the sub and nothing is running anymore. Making some eat after a while you dive because of the cold, which is not a bad way to dive because you, you you, you fall asleep and it's not, you don't suffer.

10 (9m 27s):
So he, he was very aware of the risks, but I guess that's why he did what he did and achieved what he did because he was prepared to take these risks.

1 (9m 42s):
How was there no larger third party saying, guys, we gotta make sure this thing is ship shape. How did this happen?

10 (9m 50s):
So some submersibles do take third party certifications, but OceanGate said that they weren't going to do that in a blog post in 2019 because the innovation and design is outside of an already accepted system that it would, it was too far ahead of the regulation. And experts in the law of the Sea have said that also the international waters, these things are, aren't launched off coast in the continental shelf or, or within a country's jurisdiction. They're in international waters and so they don't come under those regulations.

10 (10m 31s):
But that all seems quite murky as to who kind of has the oversight over these vessels. And there may have been a kind of this gray area that they exist in.

19 (11m 13s):
This September, the code conference enters a new era. Join me, NELI Patel, editor-in-Chief of the Verge and my two co-hosts, platformers Casey Newton and CNBC's Julia Borson. As we talk to the to the leaders making headlines in tech, business, politics, and the messy collision between them all, we'll dig deep into the topics that are shaping our world, like AI streaming and the future of social media. And as always, with code, no one will be safe from the hot seat. You can apply to attend the code conference at Vox media.com/code. That's Vox media.com/code

20 (11m 53s):
Today.

1 (11m 57s):
Okay, let's jump right in. Mr. Harris, go ahead and start by giving me your full name and tell me what you do.

2 (12m 3s):
It's g Michael Harris and I am a Titanic expedition leader explorer and the founder of R RMS Titanic Incorporated.

1 (12m 13s):
G Michael Harris has been down to the wreck of the Titanic 14 times. I reached him at about 5:00 PM yesterday. That was just a few hours after it had become clear that the search for the submersible was in vain because everyone was dead. One of his friends was on board.

2 (12m 30s):
Yes ma'am. One of my friends, PH Nale worked for me for years. We became friends and sadly he perished.

1 (12m 38s):
Do you have any memories of him that you wanna share? What was he like?

2 (12m 41s):
French, if that pretty much explains it. It does. you know, we're, we're a bunch of guys that go out to sea together and you know, we would travel together. Just many a fun night at dinner and lots of wine, especially when we were in Paris and got to hang out there with him. PH is a good guy. you know, there are different levels of friendship when you've been out to see with someone for extended periods of time. It's a bond, you know, cuz most people don't understand, you know, they go on a, they go on a seven day cruise, you know, whatever. And we're out there from six weeks to 12 weeks, you know, over the summer when we're doing salvage drops and diving and, you know, deploying subs and it's, you get very close.

1 (13m 25s):
I wonder if I can get your reaction to what we now know for certain, we know that the submersible imploded and that the five people on board, the five men on board, they didn't run out of oxygen. Which is something that I think, you know, a lot of people found unbearable to think about. When you learned that they had almost certainly been killed quickly, what would, what went through your head?

2 (13m 50s):
Well, I was interviewed the other day and a lady asked me, you know, what's worst case scenario? And I said, there are no good case scenarios. It's all worst case scenario. But I said, the best case scenario is if they would've imploded instantly. So before you even know what happened, you are vaporized. So when they were talking today about recovering bodies and what the coast guard's doing about the bodies, they don't exist anymore.

1 (14m 18s):
Mr. Harris, I was really struck when I saw that one of the men aboard the submersible, Hamish Harding called himself an explorer. And I guess I hadn't really heard that term in a long time, like since, since the books of childhood. But you also call yourself an explorer and I wonder what does that mean?

2 (14m 37s):
Well, an explorer is someone that goes to depths and goes to places that haven't been done before, going to different locations of where man hasn't come up with any type of foothold. So we're a very small elite group of people that do these deep dives searching for something that hasn't been found before, which is the definition of an explorer. Now, someone like Hamish, God rest his soul. I'm not sure explorer is a proper term for him, just for the simple fact that this is not his career.

2 (15m 20s):
His career was something else where he then was able to afford to go on this adventure, if that makes any sense. And I'm not trying to take anything away from him, but we have people out here that are explorers, risk their lives every day, not just for one trip to Titanic. I mean, I, my idea was to, you know, recover the artifacts and put 'em on tour, put 'em on exhibition, share 'em with the world in hopes, you know, yeah, not a bad thing. Making a few dollars, but had no idea, didn't know if anybody would care, didn't know if anybody would show up. And we went through a lot of hard times, you know, we were called everything from, you know, grave robbers and pirates and, and all the other wonderful adjectives they called us when you see something like this where I sure as hell didn't risk my life in 30 years doing this.

2 (16m 16s):
To have some experimental vessel go out there with some tourist paying a quarter of a million bucks a piece hopping into this craft. you know, it's kind of a black mark on us on the people that have been doing it. And you know, we have over 500 dives of success. We have never once had an accident. Yeah, we've had some hairy recoveries, there've, you know, been a couple things here and there, but never lost one person. Everybody. As an expedition leader, my job is, everyone I take out is everyone I bring back. And to do that, there's a lot of work that goes into it. And so when you see something like this, it's very disheartening as a professional when they're being viewed as professionals.

1 (17m 2s):
You are saying that it appears to you as if OceanGate wasn't behaving as professionally as they should have.

2 (17m 9s):
Oh, it's not appear. I know they weren't acting as they should have. Look, PH, Nala, I've been begging with 'em for two years. Do not get into that vessel and take it too Titanic. Don't do it. Hasn't been certified, hasn't been pressure tested, none of the standard operating procedures. And it takes time and it's incredibly expensive to do it. So I get it. Not everyone can do it, but that's why everyone doesn't, you know, you don't think I would wanna build a sub that I could fit five people into instead of being in a cramped little six foot ball, of course. But the technology and et cetera that's there, it's just, we're not there yet.

2 (17m 55s):
We're just not there yet. And he came up with a great design and I have nothing but respect for what he did, trying to explore new technologies with a deep, with a deep diving submersible. But it wasn't time to take it to Titanic, in my opinion.

1 (18m 14s):
What's the difference between the crafts, the submersibles that you've gone to Titanic in and this one

2 (18m 20s):
We use the Russians, they have the mere one and the mere two. The French has the Nati and the United States has the Alvin, all of those deep diving submersibles were created by the Navy of each respecting country. Huh? These are crafts that went through years of engineering and testing. So we're in this little tiny six foot ball, three grown men shoulder to shoulder for 18 hours or longer when we're doing salvage drops. And we would love to have a bigger submarine. But all of the testing, all of the certifications that have been done, the engineering has shown that that is the safest design for deep sea dives.

2 (19m 11s):
And this vessel that was out there is 22 feet long. And it was never a question of if it was gonna have failure. It was when, if they didn't change what they were doing,

1 (19m 24s):
You told your friend not to get on this submersible. When you told him that, what did he say?

2 (19m 31s):
Mike, you know, it's okay. you know, it's gonna work out. This guy knows what he's doing. I'm going, no, then have it certified, have it pressure tested. No, no. They're talking to people, everything's cool. I'm going, you're betting with your life. I am begging you didn't listen and he paid with his life. But you know, PH 77 years old, he's, he's led a great life. I don't feel bad for PH. He knew exactly what he was getting into and there was no doubt in my mind when they first noticed there was a problem, he, he knew what was happening.

2 (20m 12s):
Now the owner of the company and the three tourists that were on board, I don't think they did, but don don't think they had long enough to contemplate it.

1 (20m 24s):
And so what do we, what do we take from all of this I mean a, as an expert, as somebody with expertise and experience, you don't think they should have been on that submersible. You don't think this should have happened and yet it did. It was allowed to. What are the changes that need to be made here?

2 (20m 41s):
I mean? Here's the thing. You gotta think of, you know, a baby seat that you can buy at, you know, Walmart or Target or some store has got stickers on it, has government stickers on it as to what the rating is, the weight of the child, et cetera, et cetera. So before you can sell that, you have to get these ratings from the government before you're allowed to put a child in it. Now, you could make your own baby seat, but they're not legal. So my thing is, if you're gonna build something like this and you want to get in it and kill yourself, well I think you have every right to do that. But don don't think you're allowed to charge or take anyone with you.

2 (21m 24s):
Those are the regulations that need to be put into place going, look If, you don't want to go through standard testing and certification, then you're not allowed to take anyone with you and you sure aren't allowed to charge anybody to go with you.

1 (21m 37s):
I wonder, I read earlier today that you took your 13 year old son down at one point to see the Titanic, which is incredible and, and obviously involved some risk, maybe even a lot of risk after a situation like this. Do you ever sort of survey the landscape and think maybe we should stop doing this, maybe we don't need to take these risks. Maybe whatever we could discover is not worth it.

2 (21m 59s):
No, never. Not even a little bit. Here's the deal. For me to feel comfortable enough to put my 13 year old son in that sub. Now I know there are things that could go wrong, but it was a 99.9% chance it would not go wrong. I, that's how confident I am in these deep sea diving submersibles. Now, someone asked me yesterday, if somebody would've offered you a million dollars cash, would you have gotten into the Titan? I said, I not only wouldn't have taken the million dollars, I would've throat punched him in the process because that thing is nothing compared to the United States is Alvin, the French na teal, the Russian mere one and twos and the Japanese Navy built one as well called the Shin Kai.

2 (22m 48s):
Those are the subs that can reach these depths of the ocean. But guess what? The mere submersibles, they're not rated to 36,000 feet. You couldn't take them and dive the Mariana's Trench. It's too deep. They're not rated for it. It's the old line that says, A man needs to know his limitations and you just can't fix stupid and stupid games will win you stupid prizes. And it's, it's just, it's terrible because the reason we're all so upset is not only for the loss of life, but because it was so unnecessary. It was unnecessary. Everyone in the industry knew that this vessel had no business being out there, had no business being on the Titanic, none.

1 (23m 47s):
Knowing all of this believing as you do that these men should not have been out there. How will you memorialize your friend?

2 (23m 55s):
Oh, we already have, cuz I have a lot of friends. One of my best friends, Ralph White, he died several years ago. Another friend of mine, George Tillek, who started RMS Titanic with me, they've all gone before us and literally just hold up my coffee and I said, PH, fair wins. And following seas, you're with our friends. I'll see you soon,

1 (24m 23s):
G. Michael Harris, Titanic, expedition Leader Explorer. Thank you so much for taking the time for us today.

2 (24m 29s):
No problem. Thanks for having me.

1 (24m 36s):
Today's show was produced by Amanda Lewellyn and edited by Amel. It was engineered by Michael, Raphael and fact checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.