1 (5s):
It's Monday April 27th. And Boris Johnson is back at work. I'm Sean Rama's firm. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained Bojo has fully resumed his post as prime minister of the United Kingdom. First up for Boris dealing with a lock down a bunch of MPS want to reopen Boris is saying hold your horses speaking outside 10 Downing Street. He said today I know it is tough and I want to get this economy moving as fast as I can but I refuse to throw away all the effort and Sacrifice of the British people and to risk a second major outbreak and huge loss of life and the overwhelming of the NHS we down under in New Zealand.

1 (45s):
They're saying they've managed to stop Community transmission of covid-19 with new cases in the single digits prime minister Jacinda. Our Dern's to the virus was currently eliminated starting Tuesday. Some non-essential business will resume in the country, but most people will still be required to remain at home and avoid social Gatherings we are Opening up the economy, but we're not opening up people's social lives are during said at her Daily Briefing. Meanwhile in the United States of America states are easing locked down restrictions, even though we have the most confirmed cases and deaths of any country in the world and by all accounts nowhere near enough testing the right honorable.

1 (1m 27s):
Dr. Deborah birx coordinator of the White House's coronavirus task force says it's going to be a lonely summer social. Must continue even as the weather turns in the Golden State where the weather has already turned governor Gavin Newsom reminded Californians to stay at home and practice social distancing after a weekend of packed beaches in Southern California. He said this virus doesn't go home because it's a beautiful sunny day around our coasts and not even an hour after the federal government started accepting new loan applications from small businesses today the website crashed. You can get in touch with today explained email today. Explain it vox.com or tweet at us.

1 (2m 9s):
We're at today underscore explained. I'm a trauma sperm. We also have a listener voicemail line. The math is two zero two six eight eight five nine, four four. Support for the show today comes from WBUR and Reddit. They got a podcast called endless thread and a new series called madness the secret mission for mind control of the people who paid the price. It's a shocking story of forced brainwashing a powerful doctor and the murky history of CIA funded mind control experiments. Whoa over five episodes your host then Rock Johnson and Amory sivertson talk to families legal experts and historians about the dark history of government support.

1 (2m 53s):
Brainwashing experimentation and the consequences it continues to have in society subscribe today to endless thread from WBUR and Reddit. David Roberts you cover climate and energy for Vox and last week a lot of our listeners were hitting us up and saying they had a question about one particular aspect of energy and how it works in this country. And that question was how does oil work?

1 (3m 35s):
How does it work

2 (3m 36s):
David?

3 (3m 40s):
How much time do you have John? We're like a 20 minute show usually work. Well dinosaurs died. The main thing to know about oil is traded on a global market. So Global prices are our prices. Our prices are Global prices and it

2 (4m 2s):
is traded on a global

1 (4m 3s):
market through two

3 (4m 5s):
kinds of markets one. is

2 (4m 8s):
called a spot Market which is what you get on if

3 (4m 11s):
you want actual oil like if you want physical oil delivered to you quickly and then there are several what are called Futures markets which are familiar to anybody who sort of follows Commodities Commodities trading in which is just kind of you're making a bet on what the future price of oil will be and what happened last week is people Did concluding that the future price of oil was extremely low. So these Futures contracts You by especially on a short term on a day-to-day Market, which is what people were following last week you buy and sell these Futures contracts throughout the month and then at the end of the month they come due which means

2 (4m 56s):
if you're holding some of these you get

3 (4m 60s):
the oil delivered to you and most of the people participating in these Futures markets don't Want actual oil and don't have the capacity to store a bunch of oil. They're just kind of speculators and Traders that you know that are that are common in every market. So what happens is at the end of a month when these contracts are going to come do all these people who have bought Futures have to sell them and get rid of them

2 (5m 27s):
lest.

3 (5m 28s):
They find themselves the recipient of thousands of barrels of oil what a system the problem

2 (5m 36s):
is last. Eek, everybody had concluded that the future price of oil was basically zero. So no one wanted to buy a bunch of Futures, but the contracts were coming up. And so what you had is a whole bunch of oil traders who were in dire threat of getting stuck with actual oil, which they don't want right? So they're all at the end of the month trying to get rid of their Futures. They're trying to sell these oil Futures and all of a sudden everybody who had any of them was trying To sell them so the price went down and down and down

3 (6m 11s):
below zero the most extraordinary development that took place today when the u.s. Main blend West Texas intermediate fell more than three hundred and six percent. You see it on the screen. It is negative thirty seven dollars 63 a barrel.

2 (6m 29s):
In other words. There are a lot of oil traders who were saying listen, I can't accept delivery of a bunch

3 (6m 35s):
of oil. Someone's got to buy.

2 (6m 38s):
He's I will literally pay you to take them off my hands. I can't get stuck with oil. So I got to get rid of the Future's So I'll pay you to take my oil Futures. That's what a negative prices. It's not that you can just go to the gas station and they'll pay you to fill up or anything like that. This is just Futures in a sense an artifact of the Futures Market that you can go below zero and that's just nobody wants to get stuck holding the bag at the end of it. So everybody was furiously trying to get rid of their oil Futures and that's how you get Negative. Native $37 her oil prices which are unprecedented as far as I know in all of world history. It's never happened that has never happened. And

1 (7m 18s):
if you told someone even a month

2 (7m 20s):
ago that it was even a

3 (7m 22s):
possibility you would have been laughed out of the room. It

2 (7m 24s):
is utterly mind-boggling and unprecedented and novel and crazy.

1 (7m 30s):
Wow. Okay, that was a pretty good explanation of what happened. We're still going to keep talking though because something happened the next day. Where they just kind of came right back, right? They went positive after a volatile trading session oil jump 40% at its high the US Benchmark West Texas intermediate Rose 19 percent and closed at 1378 per

3 (7m 53s):
barrel. It's funny that that's that's the bar where we've set now is it is it above zero

2 (8m 1s):
but what happens is the Futures contracts kind of reset at the end of the month so they kind of started the monthly cycle. Over again

3 (8m 8s):
so they were no longer you no longer had a bunch of

2 (8m 10s):
people frantic to get rid of them. So the price rebounded but let's keep in mind that when we say rebound what we mean is that it got back up to like 10 dollars and even three or four months ago oil was trading at roughly $70 a barrel and even at $70 a barrel there was constant discussion among oil types about persistent low prices and about how Those low prices were putting immense pressure on on various producers. So it's not like 70 was great for them. Then now it's trading at 10 now and who knows how it's going to bounce around but it's definitely not going to bounce back up to 70 and the longer it stays low the more pain the industry fields and the pain

1 (9m 0s):
is due to the coronavirus

2 (9m 1s):
well, It's kind of a perfect storm situation going into the coronavirus like months ago feels like decades but months ago before the coronavirus was a big deal already the oil and gas industry was facing several structural problems. One of which was persistent oversupply which was producing persistent low prices. So low prices were already a problem going into this. So

1 (9m 37s):
more and more

2 (9m 39s):
financial institutions have been turning away from oil and gas. So you're big like investment Banks and investment groups have been making various pledges to decarbonize their Investment Portfolio. So a lot of them are just pulling completely out of coal plant Investments for instance or reducing their exposure to oil and gas and part of that is because governments and The world is taking climate change seriously, and you know public pressure is beginning to mount and political pressures beginning to mount and people are beginning to turn away from fossil fuels for climate related reasons.

2 (10m 19s):
And even the financial institutions that don't care about climate definitely care that other people care about climate, right? That's a risk if people are turning against oil and gas that's a risk. That's a material risk, so fine. Solicitations were turning away from oil and gas withdrawing their Investments. Meanwhile transportation is 70% of global petroleum demand. It's the biggest use of oil in the world is getting around in planes and Trains and Automobiles and what's been happening is that the price of renewable energy is falling super quickly and electric vehicles are scaling up and getting cheaper super quickly.

2 (11m 4s):
Lee and so a lot of analysts are saying look the the economics of using oil to make gas and Diesel to run Vehicles relative to the economics of using clean electricity to power electric vehicles are just

1 (11m 23s):
Cratering

2 (11m 24s):
permanently like they're on permanent structural decline clean power fueled electric vehicles are are on an inexorable rise, and it's happening faster than anybody thought it was so that's another giant vulnerability for oil and gas that was sort of exploding in its face before the virus even showed up and thirdly a lot of these companies have been paying out more. In shareholder distributions and an executive packages, then they have been making in cash flow in revenue and they've been covering that difference with debt like Exxon for instance.

2 (12m 11s):
And that's true, especially in the companies that are focused on Shale gas fracking gas in the u.s. Notoriously debt-fueled sector and now you've got this oversupply we've got demand declining. We got your ability to store it somewhere declining prices declining and so all the and now all that debt is coming due to those companies all that was happening before the virus showed up. Up. So

3 (12m 39s):
in the virus showed up it basically shut down Global demand specifically Transportation, especially Transportation. No one's moving that just hyperaccelerated all the

2 (12m 50s):
negative trends that were already bedeviling this industry, like really

3 (12m 55s):
violently accelerated them. They were in trouble before this. They just kind of brought it to a head at an extremely sort of dramatic fashion.

1 (13m 16s):
more wood David after a break if you're hanging out with your friends on the weekend and like a house party app situation lots of conversation you and the lots of jokes flying about and you're trying to make things serious, but things keep going back to the jokes and the memes and the whatnot and you're like, come on guys. Can we get real? You might want to try better help better help is offering help with people suffering from stress anxiety isolation or depression.

1 (13m 57s):
They offer licensed professional counselors who can help you with whatever you're going through. You can connect with your counselor in a safe and private online environment. And anything you share is confidential to get started you fill out a questionnaire. You assess your needs and get matched with the counselor in less than 24 hours. And after that you can easily schedule secure video or phone sessions with your therapist plus exchange messages better help as a truly affordable option. And right now today explain listeners get 10% off your first month with the discount code explained. So why not get started today better help.com explained better. Heelp.com explained support for the show today comes from Sun Basket, doesn't it just even sound so nice Sun basket son basket hooks you up with healthy delicious meals every single week.

1 (14m 47s):
They deliver a box loaded with pre-portioned Organic ingredients right to your door. So you can throw the meals together whenever you're hungry. They're really easy to prepare and you can go from unboxing to eating in as little as 15 minutes. That's what I like. I don't like a lot of time between the unboxing and eating because I want to do the eating real quick thing. Also to stuff poison strip steak lettuce cups with with pickles and carrots and roasted salmon with with a miso-glazed eggplant black bean tostadas Diablo with cabbage slime and guac. There's all sorts of stuff going on right now. Some masking is offering $35 off your order when you go to Sun basket.com explained and enter the promo code explained at check out that his son basket.com explained and the pro.

1 (15m 37s):
Mo code explained it check out for $35 off your order. So after oil win- last week President Trump tweeted, of course that he will never let the oil and gas industry the great United States oil and gas industry suffer. What's his plan to save

2 (15m 60s):
it right now. So I mean there's a couple of things Trump could do he can fill up the Strategic petroleum Reserve which he's close to doing he can give them access to this giant small business loan fund that's been created. By Congress, he can relax pollution regulations, which he is doing at a furious Pace relax regulations across the board. But all of those in the end are fairly marginal Trump does not have a tool. No national government has a tool large enough to be more than a rounding error on the scale of the catastrophe that is facing the oil and gas industry.

2 (16m 44s):
So I mean even if the oil and gas industry had a whole Coterie of world leaders devoted to serving it as it in fact does that's just not clear that they can do much like for instance Trump organize this deal between Saudi Arabia and Russia.

3 (17m 3s):
I just spoke with the president of Russia Vladimir Putin and the king of Saudi Arabia King Solomon, and we had a big talk as To oil production and OPEC and making it so that our industry does well and the oil industry does better than it's doing right now. It's Russia

2 (17m 26s):
and Saudi Arabia used to be the top oil and gas producers in the world a decade ago oil from the US oil and Shale gas from the US have made the u.s. Number one over the last decade even before the coronavirus Russia and Saudi Arabia in this price War each

1 (17m 41s):
cutting the price

2 (17m 43s):
of their oil.

3 (17m 44s):
To

2 (17m 44s):
undercut the other which of course results in low Global prices, which hurt everyone this is terrible cycle that only got accelerated by the virus. So like Trump comes in and organizes this deal between them

3 (17m 58s):
President Trump live-tweeting. The the oil markets are going to see a huge costs in output. He says quote just folks my friend MBS the Crown Prince over in Saudi Arabia who spoke with President Putin of Russia, and I expect and hope that They will be coming back approximately 10 million barrels a day and may be substantially more well happens. I mean the difference between supply and demand is something like 30

2 (18m 23s):
million dollar barrels a day even today. So it's just like even that is a drop in the bucket, but it's just not clear that he's got the tools or that any government has the tools to substantially affect this what is an enormous tidal Force. That's across the Now it's just bigger than what governments can do

1 (18m 47s):
sounds like a great opportunity for a green New Deal

2 (18m 49s):
David. Oh, what what an interesting idea Sean. It's interesting that you would you would think of that. You know, the broad theme Here is the economy is shut down. So why not when it restarts fix some of the parts of it that aren't working so well we should Restart the economy in as clean away as possible. Let's now that like air pollutions down and greenhouse gases are down and you know, you seeing all these pictures from all over the world of like in

3 (19m 21s):
India. They're like, oh my God, we can see the Himalayas the

2 (19m 24s):
Himalayas are still there. Like all these people around the world discovering the joys of clean air and there's been all this new research over the last decade which I know vaux's Vox has written a ton about of of how air pollution is so much worse. So much more pervasive and so much worse for health than we had even known. So the benefits of reducing air pollution just are getting bigger and bigger and here we are with like a whole bunch of air pollution gone. Let's try to come back in a way that doesn't just resume all our old polluting activities. Let's try to sort of push electric vehicles. Let's push Renewables. Let's push teleworking and and working remotely.

2 (20m 6s):
Let's all these business people. Now who are figuring out how to do business without flying multiple times a week. Let's try to like encourage that and submit that in place and incentivize that let's try to when we bring the economy back. Let's bring back a cleaner economy that I think makes sense to people and it is occurring to governments across the world and lots of them are doing lots of stuff along those lines like and typically what happens when recessions end like if you look back at history, You know greenhouse gases and pollution fall during a recession and then tend to Roar back even to higher levels than previously when the economy recovers presumably we don't want that to happen.

2 (20m 52s):
So good policy right some foresight and good policy could prevent that from happening. It's just a it's a golden and very obvious opportunity. But will that happen unfortunately, unfortunately, the country today is run by people who are clinging to the Past socially economically rhetorically demographically choose your adverb and one of the ways that clinging to the past is clinging to fossil fuels they're very committed to fossil fuels. So I mean the situation you have is a large-scale.

2 (21m 33s):
Structural Global transition underway from fossil fuels to clean energy and I think almost every serious analysts will tell you now the transition is happening. It is inexorable. It is Unstoppable. The only question now is how fast how

3 (21m 51s):
fast are we going to do it? How much more

2 (21m 53s):
pollution are we going to put out into the air before we do this? Like how many more people are going to die of respiratory? Illnesses before we do this how fast will it? Happen and so what Trump and Republicans are doing with their sort of frantic efforts to subsidize fossil fuels and release them and and deregulate them is at best slow this transition in the US such that other countries leap ahead of us and capture these industries that we know are going to be the growth industries of the 21st century. We know that renewable energy

3 (22m 33s):
D

2 (22m 33s):
and clean tech and clean home energy appliances and smart grid technology and smart TVs and smart batteries just like the whole skein of Clean Energy Technologies are all poised for enormous growth throughout the century and some countries are going to be smart enough to use this big economic pause to grab onto them and to accelerate them and to dominate them. And all we're going to do by delaying that transition is let a few more people die from pollution. Let climate change get a little bit worse slow the transition and fall behind in the dominant industries of the 21st century.

2 (23m 18s):
There's no

1 (23m 18s):
long-term plan. The future is going to

2 (23m 28s):
happen, right you're either going to Walk into it eyes open or you're going to do what the US is currently doing, which is flail about wildly with a blindfold over your eyes as like events come and smack you upside the

1 (23m 44s):
head. Well when those eyes open will call you up to explain the best path forward.

3 (23m 54s):
All right. Thanks Sean. Thank you, David.