2 (1s):
Before we start the show a quick shout out to my guy Ted actually his new podcast. It's called Ted interview, you know Ted capital T Ed on the Ted interview podcast. You hear deep Dives with great minds. It's hosted by Chris Anderson. He is the head of Ted and I really hope that's what his business card says season 3 of Ted interview is out. Now. It's got interviews with great minds talking about why So bad at knowing what's going to make us happy or why populists are so good at manipulating human emotions, and there's all sorts of other stuff to check out Ted interview wherever you listen to podcasts.

2 (50s):
Mom, yes, you're a boomer, right? Yes. Have you heard of okay Boomer know? What's that? It's a meme. I mean, it's blowing up on Tick-Tock. Mostly typically. It's like a kid doing an impression of a boomer. Okay, here's one so she goes me going trick-or-treating with my little cousin and then the old lady giving my cousin a handful of candy gives me 1 You're a little old to be trick-or-treating don't you think and then she goes okay Boomer. Have you seen these know? What do you make of it?

1 (1m 24s):
It's more like a woman to say something like that. You're too old to be trick-or-treating. You

2 (1m 29s):
think that's something a boomer would say, of

1 (1m 30s):
course some people that I want so

2 (1m 32s):
you and I clearly don't have this generational divide but a lot of people are feeling like there is something there. This meme has gotten very big a New Zealand legislator said Okay Boomer on the floor of parliament in New Zealand to an elder legislator when he criticized her Climate Change speech. Yeah, one conservative radio host called it the n-word of ageism. Wow. Can you believe that and then Fox just recently apparently tried to trademark the phrase because they want to make a TV show potentially called. Okay Boomer. Oh

1 (2m 12s):
Fox ready?

2 (2m 14s):
Not box fuck. I know it seems like something worth explaining right? Yes. It does need

1 (2m 20s):
explaining. Maybe you should explain it today.

2 (2m 34s):
My name's Sean Rama's firm. And I'm I'm a millennial.

1 (2m 37s):
Well, I'm Asia Romano. I'm a culture reporter for box and I am on the cusp between Gen-X and Millennials Asia for all the people who don't

2 (2m 44s):
sit around thinking about these generational sort of divides all day. Can you just tell us how many we currently have living in the world?

1 (2m 54s):
So you've got about five different Generations that people fall into we've got the silent generation, which is the World War II era the official years from people who research these things are 1928 to 1945. Why do we never hear from the silent generation because their silence Then you have the Baby Boomers and the Baby Boomers were pretty much anybody born between the years after World War two and before the rise of the counterculture. Okay Boomers. Yes, 1946 to 1964. Then you have Generation X 1965 to 1980 roughly and then Millennials anybody after 1982 around 1996 or so shoutouts to Millennials.

1 (3m 34s):
Yes, that's you and then if you were born after 1997, and I think the upper end of that cutoff is between 2012 and 2015. Your if you were born somewhere in there, then you belong to Generation Z.

2 (3m 46s):
Can I just say I don't understand those kids.

1 (3m 50s):
Well, that's sort of the thing about kids these days. No one ever understands them, right? That's why their kids these days.

2 (3m 57s):
Okay, let's talk about the stereotypes or the traits associated with each one of these generations starting with the people before the Boomers.

1 (4m 5s):
If you were in the World War II era that became a huge identifying trademark of your generation. You know, you fought World War Two you defeated the Nazis. And so I think many many people still associate that generation with that specific major major world

2 (4m 21s):
event. I don't know anything about Ryan. I don't care. You know, if going to room now and finding him so he can go home if that earns me the right to get back to my wife welding. Then that's my mission

1 (4m 40s):
boomers are associated with the countercultural movement. They're associated with Vietnam War protests with really turbulent socio-economic changes in the 70s have us a little bit about the war

2 (4m 52s):
in Vietnam, but they're

1 (4m 57s):
also associated. With hoarding wealth and mortgaging the future quote-unquote in terms of how Millennials relate to them today.

2 (5m 3s):
Tell you what I'm doing this weekend gettin late 1990s and nobody is getting late. I'm the only man in America who was getting late this week and I haven't been laid that much

1 (5m 13s):
Generation X is known for sort of the rise of a jaded cultural moles. That's what I tend to associate Generation X with Millennials took that and ran with it into an era of post capitalism. So now they get blamed for things like ruining hole. Industries by doing things like eating avocado toast or not eating cereal or not going to department stores. Maybe Angie

2 (5m 36s):
doesn't care about us anymore. Of course. He dies. He cares about all. Love you. He was putting you in the attic. I saw you can't just turn your back on him now

1 (5m 45s):
buddy. Wake up. It's over and he's all grown up gen Z and a millennial share a lot of common traits because gen Z is notably the first generation to be born entirely in the era of Internet, which is a hugely defining trait that sets them apart from every other generation. This is Tom Hanks saying, if you

2 (6m 4s):
see me in person, please leave me be

1 (6m 9s):
gen Z doesn't drive as much. Gen Z there more reluctant to get jobs. And so there are ways in which the Millennials and gen Z's specifically the traits that are associated with them are more distinctly socio-economic. Which brings us back to

2 (6m 24s):
okay Boomer, I believe how did this socio-economic divide Associated between the Boomers and the Millennials and gen Z lead to this meme AO a yeah. This one goes out to all the 65 Plus crawdaunt.

1 (6m 41s):
On cloud. It's been identified as popping up on places like 4chan as early as 2015 which is a long time ago, but it really took off recently as an insult on Tick Tock when actual Baby Boomers began to post rants about kids these days on

2 (6m 58s):
Tick-Tock one of these days just like the baby boomer generation. The generation before us the baby Buster's who came after us you're going to mature and you're going to realize nothing's free that things aren't equal and that your utopian society you created in your mind in your youth simply is not

1 (7m 14s):
sustainable the the tick tock use responded by just basically creating this this Meme and going wild with it and responding to every what they felt was every condescending baby boomer rant

2 (7m 27s):
with okay what exactly were Millennials and younger responding to with okay Boomer what were they complaining

1 (7m 44s):
about in a lot of The Tick-Tock rants they're very familiar tropes so you've got the fact that teens were being lazy or they weren't searching for jobs correctly you know one of the examples that I that I found really funny and and relatable was a sixteen-year-old girl who I actually talk to you for my article who had made a viral response to her grandfather because her grandfather was yelling at her to get a job even though she was only 16 and she hadn't even gotten a chance to get her driver's license yet and

2 (8m 14s):
this wasn't a joke this was like a serious interaction writing a granddaughter and a

1 (8m 18s):
grandfather right exactly and another thing I think that really jumped out at me was about the expression of gender and sexual orientation one of the means I saw was a Reacting to a relative in her in her family who was mad that she had been holding hands with her girlfriend in public on one level. It's sort of generally about how dare teens be non-conforming in public, you know, but on another level it speaks to how a more sharply Progressive divided politically between Jen's ears and

2 (8m 49s):
Boomers you reference these economic inequities between Boomers and Millennials and gen Z even. Are there real insecurities behind this meme?

1 (8m 60s):
There are a lot and I think some of them are really obvious. If you think about Millennials came to adulthood during the recession they witness the housing collapse. They witness the financial Scandal starting in 2008. They witnessed Occupy Wall Street rise, and then sort of Peter out all the while climate change is looming and growing worse and worse. And I think all of these things have definitely definitely taken a toll on the Way that Millennials approach their finances and and how they think about capitalism in general. We know for a fact that Millennials are saving money, but they're investing less. They're choosing to rent rather than pay mortgages and buy buy houses and they're also more of them.

1 (9m 42s):
So they're competing for fewer spaces in the workforce that Payless and Boomers aren't necessarily retiring as early as they used to so a lot of boomers are basically still in jobs that Millennials could take if The members weren't there before them. So there's a lot of friction I think going on

2 (9m 60s):
there, but there is Nuance to this right and it's important to point that out. I mean there are boomers who are retired who still can't afford prescription drugs. There are boomers who don't retire because they can't afford it yet and they work later into life, right? There's there's Shades of Gray in here.

1 (10m 17s):
Absolutely. I mean, I'm sure we all know people who fall into these Shades of Grey that you're talking

2 (10m 21s):
about. No shade to the to the gray hairs out

1 (10m 24s):
there. This is the complication that always arises when you try to generalize about a very broad group of people, you know, you get people being more. I'm not like that. That's not my experience. So therefore you can't judge me. It's not necessarily to say that every single member of the baby boomer generation acts and XYZ ways. But as a collective, these are the traits that they have culturally indulgent or enabled and so forth, you know, the same thing could be said of Gen X and Millennials and gen Z will all have to critique ourselves at some point. Well, I'll have to Look at ourselves as a collective generation at some point and say okay. What have we got in right as a group till now? What have we gotten wrong? And I think okay Boomer maybe he can say Okay.

1 (11m 7s):
Boomer is an attempt to to hasten that conversation along if you will.

2 (11m 11s):
Yeah. Did it did it work in that sense that it helped facilitate generational reflection of some kind. Is it doing that right now?

1 (11m 19s):
I think maybe I think there are probably a lot of people who are listening to the conversation on all Eyes, although I'm sure that that's being drowned out by the typical media tendency to misconstrue the meme and the typical social media tendency to send people just sort of yelling and shrieking at each other without really listening to what the other person is saying.

2 (11m 48s):
Hello. My name is James Barham. I was born in 1963. So I do believe I am technically a boomer.

1 (11m 55s):
The biggest generational divide I

2 (11m 57s):
have personally

1 (11m 57s):
experienced is actually with some people my own age recently. I've found

2 (12m 2s):
myself in this rather strange position of having to not only explain my take on some of the technological and cultural changes that are happening around us, but also having to defend the millennial Generations attitude to those changes and this is with people my own age for being a little bit weird at times.

1 (12m 22s):
Hi, this is Donna Weinberger. And I am from the boomer generation. I find this conversation somewhat amusing ultimately unsatisfying and really pretty hopelessly retro something kind of like a parody of the sixties. The annoying part to me is that I would never characterize a whole generation. As any one thing no matter what the age it seems really passive-aggressive to do so. And I've never seen passive-aggressiveness lead to any kind of really fruitful discussion. This is an AdWords. I'm just shy of 60.

1 (13m 3s):
I'm still in the workplace. I work with younger people. I think okay Boomer and all variations thereof or away. We can laugh at ourselves and also recognized that when one generation reaches the top of the ladder the generations below or nipping at their heels wanting to get up there a little bit faster wishing we'd get out of their way and as long as we can work together, Other laugh together and even laugh at ourselves. Everything's going to be

2 (13m 32s):
okay. You ever listen to the show and think man, I really need to start a podcast not like a daily news podcast because that just seems like an ungodly amount of work. But you know, there isn't a definitive Maps podcast out there and I know so much about maps and I know so many mapmakers and highly opinionated people about Maps. If only that College in my neighborhood offered like a crash course In podcasting 101. If only I knew how to make a podcast. Well Google podcasts and PRX have teamed up to bring you podcasting 101 not in podcast form, but in video form because there's a lot of stuff you need to see and you know, what else you will see your boy me because I co-host these videos along with my co-host Lobby ajayi we walk you through all of Steps that you need to figure out how to get your podcast a dream into your podcast reality will tell you how to figure out what your podcast should be will teach you how to land that great interview how to record how to edit how to get your idea out there and the biggest one of all how to find your audience you can start now these videos are out at PR x dot org slash podcasting 101.

2 (15m 1s):
They make a great holiday gift. They are free and useful and people Love podcasting PR x.org / podcasting 101. Happy podcast

1 (15m 23s):
Hi, my name is yuuichi. How are you? T. I am 55 years old and first-generation Japanese-American. My partner is originally from Germany and she is just two years younger than I am and she always teases me that she is a gen xer and I am a boomer. It would be wrong to a different Generations. Apparently 1964 is the last year of baby boom. So I feel generational divide is kind of manufactured concept. Thanks. Bye

2 (16m 0s):
Brian Resnick you write about science at vaux this whole generational divide with the okay Boomer meme. It's not actually anything new is it? No, not at all. Like old people have been complaining about young people for as far back. Has anyone can research and we can also assume that young people have been complaining about old people. It's just that there are fewer written records of like a 15 year old gay. Oh my god. Dad. Like you don't fucking get it. Why is there always been a divide? I mean old people create young people if they hate them so much. Why don't they just stop? Yeah. Yeah, like when I've been talking to some researchers about this question. They're like, well if every generation is just worse than the previous ones then like when was the ideal generation?

2 (16m 45s):
Back in Lankenau 4000 BC or there must be something interesting psychologically happening where these patterns of complaints just repeat themselves year after year Millennia after Millennia. Let's just assume this Dynamic is Immortal. Why is this Dynamic? So Immortal it seems to be a problem of memory. There's this Collective memory loss of what kids used to be like And adults are always forgetting that kids have always been like a little entitled and narcissistic and not very conscientious. And this is where we're getting out like the fundamental memory problem.

2 (17m 29s):
We are really bad at remembering questions. Like what were kids like in the past or to say it another way. We're really bad at remembering how things used to be and there's a lot of biases that come across but one interesting bias is called Isn't is MM. Oh, yeah, I've heard about this one you have yeah, it means like we're always just thinking about where we are right now. Yeah. Well, there's also like a very interesting lesson in how memory works here in just to like remind everyone that your memory is not like a video recorder. You don't go back in time and like replay what happened.

2 (18m 10s):
Well, if every generation is just worse than the previous ones and like when was the ideal generation back in Lankenau 4000 BC. The better metaphor is like your memory is like this video editor who's working on this Split Second deadline and just has to grab like whatever tape is nearby to fill in the gaps. So when was the ideal generation where we are right now back in Lankenau 4000 BC or Brian Brian when you're trying to remember something like what we're kids used to be some of those gaps get filled in with stuff from the present.

2 (18m 52s):
We generally like we'll use our present to fill in the gaps of things that we don't quite remember from the past. You don't know this is happening. Like when were using pieces of the present to color in the past like you don't see that memory and go. Oh, yeah, you know, like I'm filling in the gaps here. I'm making a Sumption based on some present-day conditions today. No, you just remember it as the past. Is there any evidence to suggest that this present is MM bias is getting worse or we just seeing more of it because it's on Tick-Tock Twitter and Company. Yeah, I don't know if it's getting worse but there was an interesting recent study looking at this presentism problem where basically the study asked adults to rate kids on a bunch of aspects like our kids these days more respectful of Elders in the used to be our kids these days more.

2 (19m 47s):
Well read or they say Are they less smart and basically the results are kind of neat in that the adults are just taking how they are today and just assuming that's how kids used to be and then comparing the kids of today against that so the more authoritarian you are as an adult the more harshly you're judging kids for not respecting Elders, the more well-read you are as an adult the more harshly you're judging kids for not like not being well-read and so on. Okay so memory and bias have a Lot to do with this generational divide we've been talking about on the show today. Are there other factors involved here? Yeah, so like memory accounts for like how this story is told but a lot of the biases of the human brain come from this like one ideas like we often replace hard questions with easier questions.

2 (20m 38s):
So a hard question is like how the world gets so fucked up and you think about you know, I don't know like corporate interests in America have been to Full and republicanism has become more conservative and more unified against climate change. And you know, you think like lobbying. I don't know. This is a really complicated answer like a simpler question is like what is my stereotype of an older person? And how do they fuck this up? You know, we grew people in two generations and we'd start to tell stories because it's an easy way to interpret the world. It sounds almost like you're saying that there is no General.

2 (21m 18s):
Generational divide that it's a construct. But I imagine a lot of people would argue against that well people are you know divided but this idea of generations there is debate and in science along the lines of like Our Generations real but there's not a lot of good data on it some of the generational differences. We see are really just age differences and and that's kind of like why I was interested in the story like thinking about these young people are saying okay Boomer and Realizing and thinking through like well these young people are going to be old one day. We're going to be in the 2050s, you know, some gen Z are going to be like, ah could staged a stir by an older fancy boots with their brain interfaces and they're not even using a finger to click a button, you know, when we ordered things back when I was a kid, we had to click on Amazon and we had to wait two days.

2 (22m 18s):
For the stuff to arrive and now, you know, you think of your fancy boots and you got your boots and these kids don't have to do anything. I think we can anticipate that moment because of how human memory works of how we forget what we were like as kids we forget what kids are like and you know, we can also see that in history like the cycle repeats. So, you know the okay Boomer young people today. A are going to be the kids of tomorrow. And is that okay? Does this sort of rhyme and reason of generational history actually cost us anything or should we just let it I don't know perpetuate itself into Infinity.

2 (23m 3s):
Well, there are two sides of this and I have empathy for both sides one young people don't want to be condescended to all the time on the old people side of things ageism is real. I think one of the jokes in this okay, Boomer mean is like like go go tell a boomer until I copy and paste something in a PDF or you know, the joke is like they don't know how to use like a PDF or any technology and you can imagine that becoming ageism when these Jen's ears are like, you know, they're like in their late teens now, you know, eventually they can be the like 27 year old person who's somehow a manager at their company firing older people and you know based on this stereotype of ugh.

2 (23m 45s):
Oh, you're a boomer you don't get it. You're going to work slow. The lesson at the end of the day is like we all exist on the same Continuum of humanity young people become old people old people used to be young people. We should have some empathy in that and to realize there's like a developmental trajectory to being a human and then sometimes when you're yelling at the past or when you're yelling at the future or if you yelling at old people you're young a young people, you're really just yelling at like a different version of yourself. Just like, you know Sean you and I will be crotchety old people one day complaining about the youth. I think I think you're already halfway there my guy. Yeah.

2 (24m 25s):
Nice. Nice. I'm gonna find some like kids to go yell at and on a playground or something like that. Okay, Brian. Okay, Sean. Brian Resnick is a science reporter at vaux. He wrote an article called why old people will always complain about young people. You can find it at box.com at that same website in article from Asia Romano who you heard from earlier in the show called. Okay. Boomer isn't just about the past. It's about our apocalyptic future. Okay listener, that's it from us this week.

2 (25m 6s):
You will hear from us again on Monday. We are today explained.