0 (1s):
Coming up on today, explained you've heard of okay. Boomer, but maybe not. Okay. Groomer

1 (7s):
In the last couple of months, conservative politicians and serve media personalities and various social media accounts and influencers have been pushing the idea that liberals and queer people and queer allies and trans people and trans allies are quote unquote, groomers. This idea really got started around the public debate over Florida's don't say gay bill, and then it started popping up all over social media. It started popping up during, for example, the confirmation hearing for justice brown Jackson. And I think from there, it's kind of become almost meme ified, except that people are taking it very seriously.

0 (44s):
The bizarre though, very serious accusations being logged online and one particular Twitter account doing a lot of the lobbying ahead on today. Explained

3 (60s):
Want to tip better call Saul Newsday calls it the best show on TV. It's incredible. Raves rolling stones. Spectacular says the ringer. Perfect hails vanity fair. Don't miss the final season of once again, the best show on TV that one's from TV guide, better call Saul. The special two episode premiere is April 18th on AMC and AMC plus Nita boost, better calls solved.

0 (1m 39s):
Can I explained I'm Sean Rama's for him and just a heads up today's show features discussion of pedophilia and sex abuse. That is what this whole groomer thing is really about. Asia Romano has been covering the story for Vox. What exactly does it mean to be a groomer Asia?

1 (1m 59s):
The idea of grooming has a couple of definitions. The most literal definition refers to a person who's in a position of power over someone who's much more vulnerable than them, either a small child or a teen, or sometimes a much younger adults. How did you get them alone

4 (2m 19s):
Grooming

1 (2m 19s):
It's when they conditioned them over time to accept sexual abuse

4 (2m 23s):
When we were on the ballparks or on, on gym floor, you know, I would make sure which ones I wanted to molest. I would give them special attention, congratulate them. I would give them the attention that an official is not supposed to give anybody. And it made them feel like, wow, he's paid me attention

1 (2m 45s):
In the less literal sense it can be when they condition them over time to accept some other sort of abuse. The extended version basically seems like grooming is being used to brand pretty much any and all ways in which liberals in general, but especially teachers talk about various ideas that the extreme right has coded as left wing.

6 (3m 10s):
Now the last two weeks have taught us anything it's that the left is obsessed with teaching children about sexual and gender identity.

1 (3m 19s):
Anybody who suggests that say the definition of gender is fluid, or that people exist on a spectrum with, they would be considered to be quote unquote, grooming their students.

6 (3m 30s):
What's happening in our schools is sexual influence peddling. And if you want to protect your kids, you have to get up to speed on what your kids are being subjected to at school.

1 (3m 41s):
So sometimes the accusation might be that they are literally grooming them to be preyed upon by child predators, but it more generally seems to be that they are grooming them for liberal indoctrination.

0 (3m 58s):
What we're talking about here more broadly is sort of a really extreme assertion that talking about homosexuality or queerness or even gender is somehow some form of pedophilia or, or predatory sexual behavior,

1 (4m 20s):
Right? That's an idea that has long existed among homophobic rhetoric in the U S and all over the world. This false, obviously very false association of homosexuality with pedophilia and child creditors has been used to marginalize queer people for centuries. And it seemed as though around the time that gay marriage became constitutional in the U S that conservatives had largely lost the cultural war on this specific issue.

7 (4m 49s):
Listen, I've been around for a long time. The pendulum always swings. Will it swing back to that type of small close window more than likely it will. So in the meantime, we're enjoying drag race

1 (5m 2s):
Within the last decade. Basically I think the far right has pivoted to discussing transgenderism and, and progressive thought on gender in general and has sort of used that to, to really stoke reactionary fervor against the LGBTQ community, because I sort of started by attacking the idea that that trans people should have the right to express their gender or express their, their identity through use of pronouns. For example,

8 (5m 31s):
For all of our lives, we've lived in a world of boys and girls, but that is changing along with everything else in 2017 in case.

1 (5m 38s):
And now that they sort of really made headway on that. We're seeing the resurgence of all these, these very homophobic laws across the us. And so I think to mainstream America, a lot of this probably sounds very arcane and even Byzantine, but for the extreme right wing, these ideas, I've always been a huge threat to America. And I think that the fact that they are now essentially directly trying to equate homosexuality and queer identity and gender queer identity with child molestation shows how confident they are. And that they've realized that if they can conflate these things together, they can actually make regressive strides in turning the public against gay rights and against the rights of trans people.

0 (6m 23s):
And how has this panic manifesting in our country right now?

1 (6m 27s):
I think we're seeing it kind of come out all over the place and sort of crawl out of the woodwork as it were, for example, Michigan state, Senator Mallory McMorrow was accused by her fellow state, Senator monotheists of grooming and sexualizing children. And so she sort of went viral a couple of days ago for, in her response to this basically calling out the absurdity of it.

9 (6m 49s):
People who are different are not the reason that our roads are in bad shape after decades of disinvestment or that that healthcare costs are too high or that teachers are leaving the profession. I want every child in this state to feel seen, heard, and supported, not marginalized and targeted because they are not straight white and Christian.

1 (7m 11s):
But I think that just sort of tells you, you know, this is happening among politicians accusing each other of being rumors without necessarily any direct connection to reality. At all, another example you might recall if you watched any of the confirmation hearings for justice, Bron Jackson was that Republicans kept emphasizing her sentencing history when it came to child pornographers.

3 (7m 34s):
Yeah. Look, as I listened to your testimony, I believe you are someone who is compassionate. I believe you care for children, obviously your children and other children. But I also see a record of activism and advocacy as it concerns sexual predators,

1 (7m 50s):
They were accusing her of giving them lenient sentences and being quote unquote soft on them. And they really kind of leaned in hard to that accusation, even though it really didn't hold up

10 (7m 60s):
As a mother and the judge who has had to deal with these cases, I was thinking that nothing could be further from the truth.

1 (8m 12s):
And then we're also seeing it play out, obviously among ordinary people too, because the more things like this flourish, the more it sort of builds up and sort of pops out when you least expect it to attack you in real life. You know,

9 (8m 24s):
I'm here to tell you that what you're supporting is grooming little children. What you're saying is I, I am an adult that wants to talk about sex to six, seven and eight year olds. And I'm an adult who tells you that that's sick.

1 (8m 40s):
Well, one of the more frequent ways you might have seen if you've been spending any time online is people are costing other people by replying to them on social media with the words okay. Grimmer

0 (8m 52s):
Kind of like, okay, boomer, but the better file version.

1 (8m 55s):
Yes. A way of basically dismissing whatever they're saying by lumping them in with child predators and child sexual abusers. Partly this is a meme it's been around for awhile. It's basically become a way of kind of shorthanding the grimmer accusation in one very pithy response. But I think it also functions as a dog whistle to sort of identify people you've labeled and targeted as being liberal and or promoting the queer or gender queer agenda, whatever objection you have this day of the week.

0 (9m 28s):
This all sounds sort of reminiscent of Q Anon, which is as we've covered on the show before this conspiracy, that the former president is going to save the children from, you know, cabal of, of left leaning pedophiles. Is that where this is sort of coming from,

1 (9m 46s):
Right? It's almost identical to Q1 on in a lot of ways.

6 (9m 49s):
Cause sounds good. Save the children. But nationally, some rallies have been tied to bizarre conspiracy theories involving pedophilia and the democratic party.

1 (9m 59s):
But of course, just like you and on the historical roots of this go much, much farther back. You can trace it back to centuries because the tropes that comprise Q1 on and this new groomer variant as it were, are essentially exactly the same as tropes. We've seen dating back to the middle ages.

11 (10m 22s):
Wow. A housemate of gingerbread come on in my dog, the best candies Arvin been,

1 (10m 29s):
You know, there've been conspiracy theories about shadowy figures, kidnapping and abusing children for centuries often baked in with a lot of anti-Semitism, a lot of witchcraft and satanic rights. You know, particularly in the middle ages, you saw a lot of witch hunts, a lot of like blood libel, conspiracies by blood light. Well, I mean that they were conspiracies that explicitly posited, that Jewish people were murdering young Christian children. And then we saw a huge resurgence of that in the early 20th century go figure and then saw it again and sort of revive and recycle itself in the mid to late 1970s, which sort of paved the way for the satanic panic of the eighties and nineties

12 (11m 12s):
Daily, nearly moment by moment, young people are bombarded by distorted visual images and twisted music messages that are saturating their minds. And yes, sabotaging their futures,

1 (11m 27s):
The same exact tropes, the same exact panicking over kids being abducted and forced into satanic rights involving ritual. Something that began to be called ritual sexual abuse. It's basically kind of a glorified urban legend. It just keeps getting recycled. You know, it's that, that horror story you tell around the campfire, except people have extended it into political rhetoric and used it to justify mass genocide and persecution and marginalization of people for centuries.

0 (12m 1s):
And this latest iteration is finding no greater quarter than in Florida,

1 (12m 8s):
Florida of course, was in the media because of the, don't say gay law. But I think we've continued to see the controversy over that law play out now with, with the Disney protests

13 (12m 18s):
<inaudible> wokeness and get them out of,

1 (12m 29s):
And we're seeing, you know, people protesting outside Disney every day, holding up signs that say, Disney's grooming kids.

14 (12m 36s):
It's not just about Disney with the 6, 6, 6 right there. It's not just that. It's the fact that child traffickers get to go free.

1 (12m 49s):
So that's a whole other extension of the original debate. And the fact that Disney is now enrolled in a fight with Florida, governor Rhonda Sanchez over its financial status and all its tax breaks because it spoke out against the Donzae gala

15 (13m 5s):
As promised Florida Republican governor, Ron DeSantis, signing a law ending Disney's self-government and tax breaks

1 (13m 16s):
Because these conspiracies always have the same structure. You know, American history just independently of conspiracies has always been sort of flavored with this paranoid act tendency to believe that there are secret parts of the government that are in league against them, right? We are sort of primally conditioned to believe this sort of conspiracy without a lot of pushback or resistance. And because conservative activists are also using charged terminology like groomer to sort of trigger your alarmism and trigger your all your hand and fear about kids that just makes it spread further

0 (13m 58s):
In a minute on today, explained the one Twitter account, driving a ton of the hysterics around groomers

16 (14m 12s):
It's earth month here at box. So unexplainable is exploring some of the most fascinating mysteries of the ocean.

17 (14m 23s):
It's like interstellar travel while staying here on this planet, it

18 (14m 27s):
Was a fireworks display.

17 (14m 29s):
The closest we can come to that kind of alien contact moments.

18 (14m 34s):
Hey movement, you make triggers, flashes all around you. These vortices of neon blue liquid light would just shoot up and mixed in would be blowing blew embers.

17 (14m 47s):
How much more different can you get from our way of being,

16 (14m 50s):
If you want to hear about everything from underwater light shows to a lost city of octopuses, subscribe to unexplainable, new episodes, every Wednesday, wherever you get your podcasts

18 (15m 2s):
Exploring is better than sex. All the thrill and none of the baggage,

16 (15m 10s):
Hey everyone, I'm Rob stats. Guerrera one of the hosts of the SB nation NFL show with the NFL draft, less than a week away, you might be looking for a podcast to break down the effect it has on your team, your conference, or even the league as a whole. The SBNation NFL show is draft focused until the beginning of may. So you'll hear the athletics, Dane burglar breakdown, the biggest prospects from this class five time executive of the year, Scott Pioli on what it's like inside the draft room and former Raider CEO, Amy Trask on the business side of the big day. Plus we'll be covering the 2022 NFL draft live and dropping the episode in our feed the next day, subscribe to the SB nation NFL show for the big picture and deep dive knowledge of everything.

16 (15m 50s):
NFL draft, new episodes out every day.

0 (15m 59s):
All right, Rama's from we're back. And now we're going to try and wrap our heads around one Twitter account. That's been driving a lot of hysterics around groomers, quite confusingly. This is a Twitter account called libs of Tik TOK. Despite the confusion, the accounts racked up nearly a million followers as a publishing time here today explained

20 (16m 21s):
Lives of tick-tock is primarily a Twitter account. And they basically repost a steady stream of Tik TOK videos and social media posts, mostly from LGBTQ people, but they include incendiary framing and it's all sort of framed at generating outrage. So it's, it's finding clips of personal posts from mostly LGBTQ people and amplifying them for an audience of millions. Online.

0 (16m 47s):
Taylor Lorens writes about technology for the Washington post and she recently investigated this account. That's been massively successful at pushing the idea that liberal teachers and others are quote unquote, grooming kids.

20 (17m 2s):
This account. It doesn't just exist on Twitter, although it is on Twitter, it has a really popular email newsletter. And the founder of lives of ticks. Hawk has said that anybody that comes out to their students should be basically banned from teaching should not have a place in school. The goal is to drive hate towards LGBTQ people, specifically trans people,

0 (17m 23s):
But the power of libs of tick-tock, isn't just making videos of liberal teachers and others go viral on Twitter. The key to its success is in who is watching these videos who is following this account.

20 (17m 38s):
This account does not exist in a vacuum. It's basically become a wire service for the right wing media. So anything that there's account posts gets nearly immediately picked up by Fox news and the right wing ecosystem. The

8 (17m 50s):
IPhone is obviously rearranging our brains and making us compliant dumb and destroying our attention span, but there is an upside they video. So a lot of parents, all of a sudden know for certain what is happening in their kids' classrooms,

20 (18m 5s):
It's also followed by tons of really influential lawmakers.

21 (18m 9s):
This is now the official line from the white house and the Senate Democrats that child pornography and child exploitation is apparently all just a conspiracy theory.

20 (18m 17s):
It's impacting legislation. It's gotten tons of people fired. It's ostracized, tons of gay and trans people from public life. And it's just hugely influential in the right way media ecosystem.

17 (18m 29s):
This account has become popular because it exposes to light people on the left and what they say, how dare there be an account that just basically retweets people on the left

20 (18m 40s):
Lives of Tik TOK. Got it. Start last April originally, but it wasn't until last August when Joe Rogan started promoting it, that it really got traction.

22 (18m 49s):
This is all kinds of crazy liberal people.

20 (18m 52s):
It had tens of thousands of followers and it was gaining prominence by posting these viral videos. But Joe Rogan shouted the account out three times, twice in August. And once in September and every time he did the account would get a huge boost in following

22 (19m 8s):
Libs of tick-tock on Twitter is one of the greatest counts of all time.

20 (19m 15s):
He liked that it was calling out liberals. I mean something, the account constantly purports this book. We're just showing liberals in their own words. These are videos that gay people are putting out on their own. Yes, but you're completely misrepresenting them and then spoonfeeding them to an incredibly homophobic audience. So it's not sharing gay people's content in their own words, it's sort of taking more souls of private people's internet presence and putting them on blast in front of millions. And I guess that resonated with Rogan because he, yeah, it started promoting it end of last summer. So once Joe Rogan starts promoting it, it really starts to get attention. And it starts leaning really hard by the end of the year into this groomer discourse.

20 (19m 58s):
So a lot of people have sought to kind of tie LGBTQ identities to like pedophilia. Of course, this is a completely baseless and disgusting accusation, but it's just a line used by homophobic people to attack anyone advocating for gay rights. And so previously this account had been posting election fraud, conspiracies, and conspiracies related to Biden. But by the end of last year, it was essentially accusing gay and trans people of being pedophiles and groomers and calling for any teacher that came out as gay to their students to be fired on the spot.

0 (20m 33s):
And so what is this account posting that sort of feeding this groomer frenzy?

20 (20m 38s):
It's just posting a non-stop feed on Instagram and Twitter of this types of commentary. Sometimes it's just tweets to news articles. Sometimes it's tweets to segments. Most of the time it's clips of actual gay and trans people and their private social media posts. So these are just average citizens on the account will kind of trawl the internet for any gay or trans person that posts for instance, Hey, you know, I want to create an inclusive classroom. And so that's why we asked children their gender, or it can be another teacher saying, Hey, look, you know, if your parents don't accept you, I, you know, consider me your parent. And I love you. I accept you. And you should be yourself.

20 (21m 18s):
You know, just like mostly what this account is railing against is any kind of acceptance. It's just attacking anyone that kind of is saying that it's okay to be LGBTQ. It will imply that that person is grooming children. They will be smeared as a pedophile.

23 (21m 35s):
Hey, if your parents don't love and accept you for who you are, this Christmas, I'm your parents. Now I'm proud of you, man.

24 (21m 42s):
This viral Tik TOK has been viewed more than 200,000 times. It's one that's captured the attention of us. Senate candidate, Jackson law Meyer, who called Tyler Rin a predator.

20 (21m 52s):
They will get dozens or hundreds or sometimes thousands of people contacting the school board. Anybody that's featured on the account gets viciously, harassed, doxed, stocked. I mean, everything in the book is thrown at them.

24 (22m 4s):
The district said, quote, Tyler Wren is no longer in the classroom. And the board of education accepted his resignation on April 11th at its regular monthly meeting.

0 (22m 13s):
The account posts that Fox news runs it on, you know, Tucker or Laura or something like that. Then this person gets like hell rain on them. And then they end up maybe getting fired. Is that sort of the life cycle of a

20 (22m 26s):
Video life cycle?

0 (22m 28s):
Your reporting actually uncovered who was behind this account. I guess they had previously been anonymous. Who is it running this account?

20 (22m 36s):
The woman behind the account is this woman named Haya, right? Chick she's a former Brooklyn based realtor. She lives in California. Now, according to recent interviews she's done. And this is basically her full-time job. At this point, she claims to have attended the January 6th insurrection and actually posted content from behind the barrier, right by the Capitol. It matters to think about who's behind these accounts because this account is already influencing policy and public opinion. And I think voters and average people deserve to know like, who are these people shaping our politics, right? It's so easy to have these hugely influential social media accounts we should know about who's behind them and where their funding is coming from as well.

0 (23m 20s):
What did you discover about funding? Did you discover anything about funding?

20 (23m 23s):
Yeah, so I discovered that they were funded in part by the Babylon bee, which is a right-wing news media company. And they had been monetizing also directly through Venmo donations through Twitter. So, you know, this person is making money. This person is building an email news list and this person is encouraging followers to run for office and reshape public policy. I think all of those things, even on top of the fact that they're also driving all of these right-wing media cycles makes understanding who this person is and what their ideology is really important. I think the policies that this account supports and that Rachel has advocated for are super regressive and super anti LGBTQ, especially the Florida, don't say gay bill, which DeSantis is on press.

20 (24m 14s):
Secretary said that, you know, her thinking on was completely reshaped by libs of Tik TOK. And others have said the same thing. It's also, you know, Marjorie Taylor green has come out in support of the account. Its impact on lawmakers is significant. And so I think that if you're pumping lawmakers and decision-makers full of anti LGBTQ sentiment all day that's yeah, it's, it's impactful. I think that we're seeing this wave of anti-trans legislation and legislation against gay people kind of just become more, more and more pervasive across America and homophobia is becoming more normalized. And this account has played a crucial role in all of that.

0 (25m 4s):
You can read Taylor Lorens at the Washington post. You can read Asia Romano, who you heard from earlier@fox.com. Our program today was produced by miles Bryan and we'll read edited by Matthew Collette engineered by Paul mousey and fact checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Sean Rama's from it's today explained.