1 (3s):
Don't take spine when he explained

3 (6s):
last night like many nights that came before it there was a democratic debate, but unlike the many nights that came before there was a new person on stage competing for the Democratic nomination and he may as well have been a republican. I

1 (19s):
don't think you look at Donald Trump and say we need someone richer in the White House. Let's put forward somebody who's actually a Democrat.

3 (26s):
Actually he used to be a republican,

1 (28s):
but maybe we should also ask how many A Bloomberg in 2004 supported George w-- Bush for president. I'd like to talk about who were running against a billionaire who calls women fat broads and horse-faced lesbians and no I'm not talking about Donald Trump. I'm talking about Mayor Bloomberg

3 (47s):
back in late November when Michael Bloomberg announced that he would Vie for the Democratic nomination. I spoke to Emily Stewart from Vox about his candidacy. The episode was called can a billionaire by the presidency. So this morning I asked Emily how that's

2 (1m 0s):
Working out for them. Well, we don't know if you will by the entire presidency, but he can certainly buy himself some traction. He is gaining in the polls and you know, everybody's kind of got some Bloomberg fever one way or the other right now if you look at the news

3 (1m 15s):
and why is that why is that? Why is everyone in a tizzy about Michael

2 (1m 19s):
Bloomberg? He spent about four hundred million dollars on ads on television digital and the radio

1 (1m 26s):
next year. We can have a leader who brings people together solves. Oblems and gets results Mike Bloomberg will get it done. Mike Bloomberg is sort of everywhere you

2 (1m 36s):
go. And at first it was kind of like a like here's this guy who's a late entrant in the race. He doesn't seem to have a lot of chances and then by the time January rolled around it was really starting to become clear that he was gaining some Traction in the polls and then it seems like over the past couple of weeks. A lot of Democrats and progressives have freaked out about Mike Bloomberg and there's a ton of opposition research on him. He's a guy who was mayor of New York for 12 years. He has said a lot of things done. A lot of interviews. He has a lot of baggage and so whatever positive messaging he was putting out has also been countered by a ton of negative stuff about

3 (2m 16s):
him. And that's all he's really done between November and now is like blanket the country and ads.

2 (2m 22s):
Yeah. I mean, he's also been out campaigning. He does do rallies. He hasn't been campaigning in the first four primary States, so So he is not an Iowa not in, New Hampshire, Nevada or South Carolina, but he's going to like, Virginia, California, Pennsylvania. So his or her plan is really to focus on super Tuesday, which is March 3rd, when a bunch of States vote so he has been out on the trail, but the main strategy is just inundate everyone with Mike Bloomberg everywhere.

1 (2m 54s):
I like I like I like my I like Mike. I like my colleague and President Obama worked together. No, Mike is not afraid of the gun lobby. I know my story would have turned out very differently. If I had been black. I like about like that loves America. I'm Mike Bloomberg and I approved this

3 (3m 12s):
message and it's working. His poll numbers are going

2 (3m 15s):
up. Yeah, I mean if you look at the real clear politics average of national polls, he's third right now pretty far behind Bernie Sanders who's the front leader, but pretty close to Joe Biden who was for a long time considered to be the front-runner, but he looks like he's doing I'm pretty well in different states and in head-to-head matchups with Trump to there was a poll not too long ago out of Michigan that put different Democrats against Trump and Bloomberg was the one who did the best

3 (3m 43s):
and I guess it's official now that trumps sees him as something of a threat because he like made up a nickname for him.

2 (3m 49s):
Right? Yeah. He calls a mini Mike Bloomberg and you know, these are guys have known each other for a long time. It's clear that Trump is a little bit annoyed by Bloomberg, you know, here's a guy who Is much richer than Donald Trump, he has more than 50 billion dollars in estimated net worth. He runs a giant company a giant philanthropy operation. So you Trump has taken notice of this and I'm sure you know, they have a long history here in New York, not necessarily as enemy is but they've known each other for a long time and Bloomberg is definitely on the president's

3 (4m 22s):
radar. There's that photo of like him playing golf with was like Bill Clinton and Donald Trump and Rudy Giuliani. Any and who else isn't like Joe Torre Billy Crystal. Mr. Potato Head Woodrow Wilson,

2 (4m 37s):
that was some sort of like philanthropy their Foundation. They I mean they really know each other for a long time and I'm sure socially as

3 (4m 43s):
well as Bloomberg success in the Democratic race coming at the expense of someone else's it Biden who suffering as a result or who

2 (4m 51s):
well, I think part of it is by it in before Bloomberg jumped in I had heard from people that basically he I did not to run in the first place because it looks like Joe Biden had a pretty good shot at the White House. And then when he came into the race, it did seem like that was a sign that he and his rich friends who probably were into a Biden presidency as well. We're worried about the former vice-president prospects. But you know, I think there's also just a really fractured non Bernie vote right now, whether it's people Jour Amy Klobuchar even Elizabeth Warren like he's kind of drawing from everywhere. I think if you are not Not into Bernie Sanders or you are worried about his electability or voters are looking kind of wherever they can and Bloomberg is on their television screen and until recently, you know, people are only hearing really positive messaging about him.

2 (5m 44s):
And so he's kind of been drawing from everybody. It seems

3 (5m 46s):
like hmm. Let's talk about that

2 (5m 49s):
debate. It was a real kind of firing squad around Mike Bloomberg last night the

1 (5m 55s):
fact that matter is he has not managed his City very very well when he was there he Get a whole lot done. He has stopped and frisked throwing

3 (6m 3s):
there were a lot of little shots being taken and then there was a really really long big shot taken by Elizabeth Warren that the moderators seem to just let role for like three or four

1 (6m 14s):
minutes The Mirror Has to stand on his record. And what we need to know is exactly what's lurking out there. He has gotten some number of women dozens who knows to sign non-disclosure agreements both for sexual harassment and And for gender discrimination in the workplace, so mr. Mayor, are you willing to release all of those women from those non-disclosure agreements so we can hear their side of the story

2 (6m 43s):
of Lindbergh could ostensibly release people from the non-disclosure agreements, and he has refused and he really doesn't have a good answer on that and he has

1 (6m 51s):
none of them accused me of doing anything. Other than maybe they didn't like the joke. I told and let me just put and let me put Said be agreements between two parties that wanted to keep it quiet and that's up to them. They sign those agreements and we'll live with it. So wait when you say it, except I just want to be clear some is how many

2 (7m 13s):
I mean, I think that heading into last night. Like if you would have asked me who I thought would probably go after Mike Bloomberg most it was going to be Elizabeth Warren. Here's a guy who really is emblematic everything that she kind of of whores and American capitalism. And

1 (7m 30s):
Society it is a question of values. Do we want to invest in mr. Bloomberg or do we want to invest in a better? Thank you. It seemed like he may have been caught a little

3 (7m 40s):
off guard by the NDA question, especially by the confrontation to release these women from their nda's, but he had to have been expecting stop-and-frisk to come up and that came up from the moderators themselves. How do you do there?

2 (7m 54s):
It seemed like it was a similar situation where he knew it was coming, but still he really hasn't. Up good answer on

1 (8m 1s):
that and I've sat down with a bunch of African American clergy and business people to talk about this to try to learn I've talked to a number of kids had been stopped and I'm trying to get was trying to understand how we change our policies so we can keep the city safe because the crime rate did go from six hundred and fifty fifty percent down to

3 (8m 25s):
300. So Bloomberg kind of half apologizes and I think he gets called out for that by Athwart anyway,

1 (8m 31s):
then the apology has to start with the intent of the plan as it was put together and the willful ignorance day by day by day of admitting what was happening even as people protested in your own Street shutting out the sounds of people telling you how your own policy was breaking their lives. You need a different apologies. Thank you.

3 (8m 58s):
It seemed like every time someone brought up something from my Bloomberg's passed last night. He didn't really have much to say that was satisfying and it seemed like being on that stage probably didn't help him a ton.

2 (9m 10s):
But also, you know, who knows? Yeah, he was bad last night begins drop a hundred million dollars more on ads today and could try to erase it. And that was a point Elizabeth Warren made in an interview last night after the debate. So we kind of were just gonna have to see as the polls start. To come out what happened and of course, we really won't know how he's doing until he's actually on the ballot in super Tuesday

3 (9m 44s):
more in a minute. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today explained. The show today was made possible with support from better help that our help is here for us. But better help more importantly is here for you better help is a team of licensed counselors who are standing by professionals who specialize in depression and anxiety, but they're also ready to talk about whatever the heck it is. You want to talk about be it grief trauma stress anger relationships better help has a counselor ready for you.

3 (10m 29s):
You can connect Italy with a better help counselor through texts phone calls or video calls and get help on your own time at your own pace at a rate. You can actually afford and if you sign up right now you get 10% off your first month with the code explained. So why not get some help visit better help.com explain today. That is better help.com explained. Thanks better help.

2 (10m 56s):
Hi, I'm Ariel Jim Ross. And I'm the host of a podcast called reset reset is a podcast about the impact of technology how humans have shaped it and how technology reflects our values and biases reset is also a podcast about how much good Tech has accomplished and how much better it could be if we listen to each other recently. We've covered stories about how artificial intelligence is being used to track coronavirus. We've also covered how to solve the problem of child Predators on gaming sites.

1 (11m 26s):
And

2 (11m 26s):
why our night sky might soon be filled with thousands of new satellites subscribe to reset for free on Apple podcasts Spotify or in your favorite podcast app later nerds.

1 (11m 40s):
Twins.

3 (11m 46s):
All right. So Mayor Mike kind of got a Visser rated on the debate stage last night, but will it matter do debate performances affect the outcomes for candidates? That is the question and I asked political science Professor. Julia has re so there's actually a pretty big literature in political science and Communications going back to the 1980s that suggests that they Do so in primaries where you don't have party labels to help you locate candidates. It does seem like the kinds of very attuned and engaged people who watch debates do take something away from them about the candidates.

3 (12m 26s):
What we don't know is how long those effects last or exactly what they look like in in a very crowded primary like this one, right? Let's talk about this primary because it felt sort of distinct that there were so many people on stage. Especially in the outset where these debates seemed like they weren't even good at getting to the Crux of any issue because so many people had to weigh in and there was such little time afforded each candidate. How did that effect in your eyes the effectiveness of these debates? So I think there's a couple things going on in a debate and one is like people do TuneIn. I think like you said to get to the Crux of an issue to like hear back and forth then like serious proposals about an issue and that's great.

3 (13m 8s):
But as you said this very unlikely to happen in a It was 10 people but it's also for some of these candidates to show themselves and be imagined by voters as president. I think that's it's a very slippery concept. So it's hard to pin down and maybe underappreciated but a lot of what candidates are doing is they're trying to present themselves in a way that voters can see them in that that role and make that intellectual leap from this person who's a politician and other office or a media person or a business person. To see them in this in this office that in our politics is like no other debates offer an advantage to candidates who aren't as well known that I think we've seen that in a couple of cases.

3 (13m 50s):
They have helped some of these lesser known candidates breakout not all of them obviously and it does I think allow these candidates to sort of show, what would they look like on a debate stage with Trump? What would they what would they look like at a Podium? And this is very superficial. But this is TV were talking about right? What would they look like what they sound like? What were the what would their words? Sound like if they were delivering the state of the union and kind of helps people make that leap of imagination. I mean as someone who's watched every single one of these debates a thing that's always surprised me. Was that someone perhaps the people could find the easiest to pictures president Vice President Joe Biden seem to really struggle in these debates.

3 (14m 32s):
He'd say strange things he would ramble he kind of got laughed at several times and yet it never seemed for a long time to affect him in the polls. Is that because the people who watch these debates aren't the people who are being pulled. I mean maybe I think that some of it is just the people's attitudes about Biden are sort of baked in if you're a Democratic primary voter and you're thinking you know what I wanted someone with experience someone who reminds me of the Obama Administration and that person is going to be older almost by definition then you're kind of like, okay, that's Joe Biden and you know, he's always kind of had funny verbal statements.

3 (15m 13s):
That's that's who he is. So you're probably fine with that if you're again if you're a highly engaged voters, I also think that Biden's support in the primary polls was driven somewhat by name recognition. So we'll see I don't want to speculate about what's going to happen in the next couple of primaries is possible that Biden will do really well, but we are living right now as we're recording this in a moment where Biden has been this kind of front-runner but not by that much and then has had a really rough time in New Hampshire and Iowa, so it's possible that what we're getting there is kind of Off support in the polls and that some of the drawbacks and concerns of people have about buying his candidacy were kind of lurking in those debates.

3 (15m 56s):
What about people like Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders who are maybe unlike Biden pushing the party a little bit more to the left who are recognizable who seem to kind of Hit the notes you'd expect them to hit throughout all these debates did did the debates help them in any way? Yeah. I mean, I think maybe I think that Warren General in these debates has sort of done her thing where she has a really dominated the spotlight. Most of the time she's had she's had answers that were basically on topic and where she's prepared. I think I have been a few times especially in areas where Warren isn't a strong like foreign policy where that's maybe been a little bit of a liability for her because her whole appeal is around preparation. I also think the confrontation between her and Sanders over sexism was a very interesting moment and you know, there have been opportunities for the two of them to have conflict in the earlier debates, and they've mostly Resisted doing so so I think that the debates have provided people away to look at how the left wing of the party is.

3 (16m 55s):
Developing is this is this going to be a faction where you have multiple candidates that were capable of coalescing and working together or is is mainly is is mainly about competition between Warren and Sanders for that left lane. And I think that question is still open. How much does Bloomberg sort of upset the conventional logic about how important these debates are. I mean, he's a candidate who clearly came in thinking he could by the Ian and then over the months that followed he sort of proved that that was a distinct possibility and you know last night he showed up on the debate stage for the first time and had surged without even showing up to one before does he sort of upset the conventional wisdom in any way. I think that Bloomberg is sort of challenging the conventional wisdom generally about what it means to enter the primary late on the one hand.

3 (17m 41s):
There's the suggestion that he has run ads that are effective and they're saying what democratic voters want to hear they come out until very Long story against Trump and on the other hand there are complaints, you know, he's sort of buying the primary buying support by endorsements voters have been wondering it seems like about some aspects of Bloomberg's record as as mayor as a businessperson about accusations of sexual harassment and inappropriateness as well as about stop and frisk as a policy and last night. He had to answer those as a presidential candidate on a debate stage. With other presidential candidates and didn't go very well.

3 (18m 21s):
I guess we'll have to wait and see whether it affects him at all. We only have one more Democratic primary debate and I think like I gotta admit despite getting repetitive and being a little frustrating at times. I'll miss these debates. It was nice to hear all of these people talking about the most important issues in this country every few weeks. But I mean next time around should we have more fewer just do them differently now, man, that's a good question. Man, here's what I would like to see. I think the number of debates was fine. There's like nothing you can say that won't make people mad because we should have a debate we should debate every day every hour. We should have a couple of debates.

3 (19m 2s):
However, many we've had they should be at a time when people will watch them and they should be different. What I want to see in debates is like a little bit of variation. So maybe have one kind of signature debate, whereas more General and if people are going to watch one debate they can watch that debate the what what concerns me is it's sort of like this broken record of the candidates having the same exchange over and over again. I'm in the wine and that's great if you like missed the debate or whatever and you can watch the next one will be the same but on the other hand, I think that that really runs the risk of Disengaging people and making it seem like these are politicians with Talking Heads and with talking points at we never really progressed but I would have I would have to look at the data and see how many people are like us and watching them.

3 (19m 50s):
All Julia is re is a political science professor at Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

1 (20m 1s):
Actually. It's pronounced melee while K which is Algonquin for the good land. I was not aware of that. I think one of the most interesting aspects of Milwaukee is the fact that it's the only major American city to have ever elected three socialist Mayors. Does this guy know how to party or what? Huh, huh? Okay.

3 (20m 24s):
Well we got to get going.