1 (6s):
Okay. Google is the alphabet company going to unionize on the website? The verge.com. They say roughly 230 Google employees announced they were forming a union with the communication workers of America. The biggest tech news in the country, maybe the world is the de platforming of president Trump and the violent hateful factions of his mega mob. But the second biggest tech News totally overshadowed by the first is that Google employees formed a union

2 (37s):
In January for the first Monday of the year, over 200 Google employees came out and said they had formed a union.

1 (45s):
So Ghaffary is a tech reporter at Recode.

2 (48s):
This was a huge deal on tech for years. Google workers have been launching these kinds of like one-off activism, campaigns, over issues. They care about whether that's, Google doing business with the military and many people were against that or how they treat contractors. But on that day, when the union came out, it was the first time that there was actually a formal, a group being organized who were full-time employees. These are engineers, you know, project managers, people who are important at the company coming out and saying that they are organizing

1 (1m 22s):
200 union members. Is it much considering that the Google workforce is what like tens of thousands?

2 (1m 28s):
Yeah. It's over a hundred thousand full-time employees and even more contractors. So, you know, yes, it's a small number, but it's growing already. I think by a Today it is now around 700 people, so we'll see.

1 (1m 45s):
Hmm. Okay. Well, let's talk about how this happened.

2 (1m 48s):
Well, I mean, the tension is a, Google go back deep for the past a couple of years, really, you know, this company that once was a startup with the motto, don't be evil. And this culture of letting employees debate and question every single decision. And that's changed because Google has become a bigger company now, and employees have started to realize that they don't always have the final say that there have been some decisions that management has just made in private, and it has not backed down to employee concerns and that's caused a lot of upset within the company.

1 (2m 18s):
So when did Google his old mantra, you know, don't be evil. Start to become a problem.

2 (2m 24s):
I'd say in the past five to 10 years, Google has really matured right from, from this startup culture to really big corporation culture. And I think that's where, where you're seeing this tension come from. And then just the actions that Google has taken in firing several prominent employees who were raising concerns within the company,

0 (2m 48s):
Artificial intelligence, drones, warfare, and Google. It's a mixture that cause an uproar inside the tech giant, where the early motto was, don't be evil in 2019. Google really started

2 (3m 0s):
To kind of ramp up their efforts to reign in company culture, right? And you see them starting to say, Hey, there were certain employees who were upset with Google's decision to work with, for example, the us government on providing AI technology potentially to be used in warfare, the employees are outreach. Google technology could be used by the Pentagon's project Maven to better identify both targets, right, and civilians. And so Google employees started sending out letters, started calling on the head of AI research to back off from this project. And it was a huge kind of scandal internally because this project was supposed to be a secret at that time.

2 (3m 40s):
It was called project Maven News here on Google CNBC confirming with a source that Google cloud chief Diane Green did tell employees Today that the company will not seek to renew a controversial contract with the department of defense after it, you know, it was discovered that Google was working on another secret project.

3 (4m 0s):
Codename dragon fly dragon fly was a censored version of it. Search engine for China,

2 (4m 5s):
It would actually omit certain words, the Chinese government didn't like.

3 (4m 9s):
And so to date, the New York times broke the news about a protest letter signed by 1400 employees. They want it to quote res urgent, moral and ethical issues saying currently we do not have the information required to make ethically informed decisions about our work, our projects, and our employment. We urgently need more transparency, a seat at the table, and a commitment to clear and open processes. Google employees need to know what we're building

2 (4m 34s):
To spend this kind of cascade of mini and large, and in-between kind of employee tensions and scandals at Google over these controversial projects. The Google was working on over alleged sexual harassment around the me too kind of time staff at Google or walking off the job. Today it is happening all across this Google earth. They're protesting. The company is treatment of women and they're demanding big changes in how sexual misconduct allegations are handled, buy the company, really the kinds of issues that people have been debating at Google run the gamut. But I think some of the most interesting ones for Google are around what kind of work should Google be doing.

1 (5m 13s):
So it sounds like what you're saying Shirin is that this union at Google is much more about having power and a voice in sort of the company's decisions and its politics, then say, you know, we need better paternal care and you know, better health benefits.

2 (5m 32s):
I think for Google's tech employees, for those full-time engineers and designers and product managers who make the, the, the tools that we use every day, those people are generally paid pretty well. They have good benefits. Google has been renowned for kinda setting the, the high bar and Silicon Valley for having luxurious kind of amenities at work like gourmet food and all that. So now this is not for, for those tech workers. I don't think this is about the wages and the kind of bread and butter stuff that a normal union campaign would be about. However, Google kind of has this, what's been called shadow workforce or sort of a second-class of, of workforce. And that is our it's contractors, what it calls its TVCs. And these people, you know, they range from cafeteria workers to janitors, to shuttle bus drivers that take the Google employees around from San Francisco to the suburban headquarters.

2 (6m 21s):
And they also have contractors who do data entry and even computer programming. And those people are not getting necessarily paid the kinds of high salaries and having the same kinds of benefits that you might expect

1 (6m 33s):
Also content moderators, right? Which we've talked about on the show, a bunch,

2 (6m 37s):
Totally content moderators are a huge, and there are some times the ones watching these, you know, extremely kind of a traumatizing material out there that, that Google doesn't necessarily want to show up in the results. So those people, I don't want to minimize yes, this union, the first kind of batch of people who were coming out and saying, we're in this union, they are a tech workers. They are people who are paid well. And for them probably what makes them tick isn't necessarily isn't pay or isn't working conditions. But there is this whole other kind of class of people at Google, who they are trying to include in this union to who do have those more kind of traditional issues around pay and working conditions.

1 (7m 14s):
Has anything like this ever happened in Silicon Valley in, in, in big tech?

2 (7m 18s):
No, not at a major tech company in a very long time, but there have been efforts within Google and some other tech companies to unionize, but it's largely been either kind of contractors, like for example, a thousands, I believe over 2000 cafeteria workers unionize back in 2019 at Google. And I actually broke that story. They were employed by a third party though. Right? So they weren't directly employed by Google and they formed a more traditional union that also represents cafeteria workers at other big tech companies and such there have also been kind of these smaller efforts by some white collar contractors for Google in Pittsburgh. They work for a third party as well, but at Google or at Facebook or at Amazon, or, or the Fang companies that we call the major tech companies of our time, Today no, there has not been any kind of white collar tech worker, a union to come out and formally say, we're a union

1 (8m 18s):
At this point. There's what like 700 or something of Google 250,000 or so employees in this union. And these are largely white collar tech employees. How much muscle do they really have with such a small group?

2 (8m 34s):
Well, they're going to need strength in numbers. I mean, any union is only as strong as its members. And so, you know, whether it's Google's new union is, is called a minority union, which is less common than a traditional kind of majority union. And what that means is that because it doesn't have a, it hasn't carved out a little section of Google employees, like let's say all Google engineers in Northern California and then said, Hey, we have a majority of these engineers in California with our union. They don't have that kind of structure yet. They're not actually protected by labor law in the sense that they can't get Google's management to come to the bargaining table. If they did have that majority. And they did have this official, a NLRB vote, then Google would have to actually negotiate a contract and, and they would have more formal leverage the way that this minority union works now is that they can just basically pressure Google management because they can say, Hey, we're backing up this employee who was raising concerns in, has now been fired.

1 (9m 33s):
I mean, when I saw this news last week, I texted a good friend of mine and said, Hey man, you got a union. Look at that. And he was like, what? Huh? Did I miss something? He didn't even know Google how I am. I'm serious. I'm not gonna, you know, blow up his spot or anything, but could the Google union have maybe picked a better week to announce their historic organization? It just feels like the first week of the year, even before they knew about the insurrection, we were in the middle of a presidential transition, did they sort of set themselves up to fail by launching on a week that had so much news that this just became totally buried?

2 (10m 11s):
Could they have picked a slower Newsweek to announce this? Yes. The fact that they already existed by the time this, this mess took place, they were able to come out and sort of show, Hey, we, this is a kind of thing that as a union, we're going to take a stance on whether or not our company kind of waffles, or it takes time to decide we're going to come out almost immediately and say, this is what we think Google should do. What did they say? So the Google union came out just a day after the mob and said that they condemned what happened. And they find Google and its parent company alphabet, squarely responsible for this because they think that it has not done enough to stop the hate harassment, discrimination and radicalization from growing on YouTube.

2 (10m 53s):
And remember Google owns YouTube and they see the company as enabling the kind of extremism that led to the violence we saw at the capital. And they demanded that the company take more action, that they, you know, de platform Trump and more deeply kind of address a, this is what they see is this rod at the core of the platform.

4 (11m 14s):
So we've been removing, you know, you know, thousands of videos, including videos from a president Trump's channel, if he found them to be violative. And then, you know, it's a, we have a clear, consistent policies, you know, content moderation, obviously it's about identifying content at scale and removing it before people can see it. We reduce the spread. You know, we don't recommend or promote content, which we think is violative.

2 (11m 44s):
So YouTube did end up temporarily suspending Trump for at least seven days, which was more than they did initially, which was just take it down a single video where he a seemingly encouraged the insurrectionist. It was at all because of the union. I don't think we can say that. I think the union was one of many groups though, that was pressuring Google and YouTube immensely to take action. And remember YouTube was actually one of the last major social media platforms to temporarily ban Trump's account Facebook and Twitter did it first. So, you know, there is this question of, you know, it is this union providing a pressure and, and would YouTube has been even slower without it.

2 (12m 25s):
I think we don't know the answer yet without being behind the scenes and to Google executives thinking on this. But I think we can certainly say that these employees are coming out and taking much firmer, moral stances and definitive action than the company after this event.

1 (12m 41s):
Okay. So the union started out in the two hundreds. Now it's at 700 or so, and then it has a very big week with this insurrection and the role of Google or YouTube may have played in enabling any part of it. Does that mean it's here to stay? Or could Google executives still try and just get rid of these unionized employees?

2 (13m 3s):
There is a chance they could try that they have hired a, you know, kind of a union busting consulting, a consulting firm in the past. They have fired employees who have been active in worker organizing before. I will say that even though this is a, non-traditional kind of more informal union, you, you do have some rights under labor law, no matter what in the U S so you are supposed to, as a worker, be able to organize your employees without fear of retaliation. Your employer legally should not be retaliating against you. If you want a form, a union, There is a lot of attention on this News because Silicon Valley is known as an anti-union culture, right?

2 (13m 51s):
For decades, Silicon Valley has made it its competitive advantage to be sort of anti-union over the East coast, right? There's there's this idea that if you're a tech engineer, you shouldn't unionize because you're better than that. You don't need a union. You're smart. You're a well-paid. And that unionization is a form of bureaucracy that gets in the way of innovation. That has been the driving ethos of the culture around labor rights and Silicon Valley since Intel. So when you use that, now, one of the most prominent tech companies, that staff that is a unionizing who are engineers, that's huge.

5 (14m 58s):
This is advertiser content

6 (15m 1s):
And we are sleeping terribly right now. Neurobiologists are calling this trend of increased sleep disturbances. COVID Somnia. So how do we fall and stay asleep to understand, we have to go back to its building blocks. We have to look at something called the sleep architecture,

5 (15m 18s):
Your world.

6 (15m 21s):
Explained brought to you by Bose sleep buds to there are four phases of sleep. We go through every night, the first two are lighter sleep. The next two stages are critical. That's where all the recovery and repair happens. During stage three, our bodies do the hard work of recouping from the day we just had. Then their stage four REM sleep REM sleep first takes place around 2:00 AM and is crucial for learning and memory. It's where our brain activity accelerates. Their stage is so important that NASA is working to improve REM sleep for astronauts in space. If you're asleep by 11:00 PM, you'll build three full non-REM stages before entering REM sleep at 2:00 AM.

6 (16m 5s):
What this means for you is not just less exhaustion. High-quality sleep is tied to increased resiliency, lower anxiety, and even better heart health, great sleep starts with a cool room distanced from your screens, quiet and really letting yourself relax. Both sleep buds to can help. When you use both sleep buds to soothing sounds help you fall asleep and stay asleep as noise masking tech keeps out sounds that could wake you all, helping you be the architect of a better,

5 (16m 42s):
Okay. Google is Google going to unionize? Sorry. I don't understand. But I found something similar. Do you want to know whether employees can be fired for trying to unionize? Yes. On the website, ziprecruiter.com. They say the simple answer is no Shirin. What is it with Silicon Valley in unions? Is it, is it like you're better than that? Or is it like, we, we would really appreciate it if you did do that because we're all terrified of organized labor.

2 (17m 16s):
It's both. I mean, I think a, it's a smart kind of marketing strategy to say, Hey, if you're a management tool is to say, you're better than that. You don't need a union. Why would you need someone to slow you down? And you know, it's, it's true. Unions are a, an organized structure, right? And so if your averse to structure and your, an engineer, maybe that appeals to you and I, I don't want to discount that as that's legitimately may be the belief that, that people, some people in tech have Intel co-founder Robert Noyce, one said remaining non-union is essential for survival. Most of our companies, this attitude, right. That goes back to the seventies, eighties, really early kind of computer era.

1 (17m 59s):
And has it been an attitude or sort of a mantra or has there been some, you know, old fashioned union busting and Silicon Valley too?

2 (18m 7s):
It has been an old fashioned union busting Google hire a known consulting firm involves in union busting, Amazon reportedly, according to the documents at vice reported on hire a Pinkerton straight-up Pinkertons. And it's an old school, same firm. That's in your history books right now. And for union busting back in the day, I don't like the pink for the buses to surveil workers in Europe who were unionizing surveillance efforts. I would call it surveillance efforts. I mean, they, they track things at these warehouse sites, right? So apparently Amazon has been trying to hire what they describe as intelligence analysts to keep track of activists and union organizers in their latest documented attempt to make sure that their workers do not have the tiniest glimmer of a shred of hope of power within their own workplace.

2 (18m 58s):
They track how many people have been interested in unionizing. They track how many people have been written up for defying management and things that you could see easily relate to the labor. Organizing open markets Institute is out what the new report detailing Amazon's aggressive surveillance techniques. So according to that report, when you enter an Amazon warehouse, you're scanned and your screen, and you're forced to hand over all of your personal belongings, security cameras watch your every movement, warehouse workers actually wear monitors so that they're literal. Every movement is tracked creepy. Many people think that and you know, Amazon and some others have said, well, they're just making sure their business can run.

2 (19m 39s):
And they're just making sure we can all get our shipments on time. And you can't have chaos at the warehouse. If you want those Christmas packages to come at your door and for Google, you know, you can't have billions of people searching the web. If you are, you're fighting over every single decision every day.

1 (19m 54s):
And then you Google, you know, he has access to our emails, to our search queries. I mean, are they using their technological advantage to surveil its employees who want to unionize?

2 (20m 8s):
We don't know for sure, the national labor relations board in the U S they have a sighted Google for allegedly monitoring their workers in what they say is likely an illegal way back in 2019 Bloomberg also reported that Google had plans to build a Chrome extension on employees, browsers that would keep tabs on if they were creating like calendar invitations

7 (20m 35s):
Concern. It is that this tool it's a new extension for the Chrome browser that's used internally. This one sends up a red flag. When somebody organizes a meeting that occupies a certain number of rooms or involves a certain number of people. Once it reaches that threshold, I think it's 10 rooms, a a hundred people. The concern, the question is, is this an attempt to tamp down organizing to kind of keep us from, you know, raising protests, Whoa,

2 (21m 4s):
Google disputes this. Yeah. And says it wasn't for that Okay

7 (21m 7s):
Google has said to us, look, the memo, misinterprets, this, this is something that we've put in place to cut down on meeting spam, misuse of space and things along those lines.

2 (21m 19s):
It's a very blurry line of is my employer just doing their normal standard corporate thing, where they have access to all my work tools, or are they nefariously using this to make sure I don't start a union. One thing recently that that really aggravated employee's and has kind of set fire to this movement again, of tech worker organizing a Google, is that a star AI researcher named Tim <inaudible>, who was one of the few, if only black women employees at Google on the AI research team, she says she was fired by Google four, trying to publish controversial research that was critical of bias. And Google's algorithms.

5 (21m 59s):
When someone has issues with your paper, you have a conversation about it, especially if it's internal, if they had some sort of PR or policy risk, then the PR and policy people had a chance to talk to us about our paper, because we gave them a heads up before we even wrote our paper and we added them to the documents. So to have somebody just give you an order to retract your paper with not no further discussions is extremely disrespectful to researchers.

2 (22m 26s):
Google says that she resigned by your own will. And then she had certain conditions that they couldn't meet.

5 (22m 34s):
I did not resign. I believe I was fired.

2 (22m 37s):
So this enraged employees, many of them cited with Timney and that I think has really pushed this activism stuff at Google, which has been relatively quiet for the past year. I would say it pushed it back to the forefront kind of, of workers' minds. And I think that's part of the reasons why you're seeing this union announcement come out right now. Google workers still feel like they have a target on their back. If they speak out about concerns that the company that's, how many Google workers feel. And they're hoping that with this union, they can kind of organize and be more of a unified front and not be as as much of individual targets.

5 (23m 20s):
And this union has been founded at the exact time where there's more scrutiny than ever from the United States government, from European governments on Google, Facebook, Amazon, Apple. Is it possible that this transcends Google and you see more organization at Apple or Facebook or Amazon?

2 (23m 41s):
I think that when, when workers a Google do something, it sends a message to all the tech workers in the industry. Everyone is looking at Google and people who work at Facebook, it's just a couple miles away from Google's headquarters. Of course, everyone is working at home right now because of the pandemic, but they all follow each other on Twitter. They're all following this. News maybe not your friend though, but the ones who are the ones who are plugged in to work activism, they are noticing. And I think there's been months of relative quiet, and we're starting to see the flood Gates open again around worker activism and the Valley

5 (24m 26s):
Shireen Ghaffary covers tech Recode Sean rom is for, and this is Today Explained. I'm going to text my mom and tell her that I love her Google to do my taxes. Okay Google hold me closer. Google play this song again a a hundred times.

2 (25m 3s):
Oh, I forgot you have to deal with this new union stuff. That's okay. I'll just ask duck, duck go or something.

5 (25m 22s):
Hi, I'm Avery. Truffleman the host of the cut a new podcast from New York magazine and the Vox media podcast network. Every Wednesday, we work to explore important provocative ideas about the world around us. So far, we've discussed what it's like to move back into your parent's house and why that's actually an incredible and empowering thing to do. We've also talked about what it means to be a radical in society, expects you to be practical and pragmatic. We'd love for you to join us, subscribe to the cut in your favorite podcast app to get new episodes.