0 (1s):
Way back in the autumn of 2018, Tulsa Oklahoma started trying to attract new residents by paying people $10,000 to move to the city. A local billionaire was worried about Tulsa losing population and It was his money that was being spent. Now, at the time that might have seemed faintly ridiculous, 10 grand to Uptakes, moved to a new city where you'd have to find a new house and a new community and convince your boss to let you work in Oklahoma. And then came Covid. Americans had gone remote. 2,400 people have moved to Tulsa through this program and today we are gonna meet some.

1 (40s):
I had laundry that was huge. I had laundry.

0 (43s):
The New Yorker, who realized what she'd been missing. The longtime resident who watched rents go up as new people descended. And the today explained producer who applied for Tulsa remote himself, that's all ahead.

3 (1m 1s):
When I was a kid, years before I came out, I watched certain movies and TV shows and felt a kind of queer awakening from them. I was not alone.

4 (1m 12s):
I definitely had a VHS copy that saw a good amount of wear and tear around that minute, but at the time I didn't even really understand the way it made me feel.

3 (1m 27s):
The film and TV that helped us be queer. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast,

2 (1m 40s):
You're listening to Today's Explained,

0 (1m 44s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King, Vox correspondent. Rani Moola has spent a lot of time since the pandemic covering this enormous shift in the way we work. Remotely Rani, you and my colleague Hady Modi recently went to Tulsa Oklahoma to see what they're doing to recruit remote workers. They are paying people and what else?

2 (2m 8s):
Well

5 (2m 8s):
First off there's that 10,000 headline number, you know, which is a big deal and I think it gets a lot of media play because of it. But what Haddi and I sort of learned from talking to so many people, there was like, it's more than that.

6 (2m 22s):
Yeah, sure. The $10,000 was great, like as like a hook as like the catcher attention, but I was making pretty good money. So like that wasn't the decisive kind of point for me.

5 (2m 32s):
Like for these people they're making, you know, on average more than a hundred thousand dollars a year while $10,000 is a big deal, it's not life or death, you know, it, it's sort of like it helps sort of bump them over the edge.

7 (2m 43s):
I think the $10,000 was helpful to, in terms of the moving cost,

5 (2m 48s):
I think what's really attractive to them is this idea that they could go there and be part of a community.

6 (2m 53s):
I wanted to have more physical space. I was really intrigued with the idea of community. Cuz again, I had moved to the Bay. I hadn't had a lot of time to really build connection and community in that way.

8 (3m 4s):
So for me I think it was a combination of acknowledging the fact that although I love DC it was not a sustainable place to be a single parent for one. And just realizing, oh I'm craving that community that all these people are talking

5 (3m 18s):
About. And I think their program does a really good job of integrating them with other people in Tulsa remote, but also other people in the community so that they could feel like they're part of Tulsa, that they're you know, doing community service, that they belong there and in a way that might be more difficult in modern life and in maybe bigger cities. They also kind of enable these interactions to happen with other people from Tulsa remote and with the city at large. Sort of get them set up and you know, if If you have any questions like hey, how do I get, get involved in the city council or the school board, they'll help you out.

0 (3m 52s):
Okay, so the main draw is $10,000 If. you move here.

5 (3m 57s):
Yeah you have to come there, you have to have a remote job. you know, they check that you have a remote job, they do a lot of background checks, that sort of thing. And then you have to stay there at least a year. And the sort of crazy thing is a lot of people are staying much longer than that. So I

8 (4m 10s):
Actually bought my house sight unseen from dc. It was great, loved it. And at the point that we knew my husband was coming back, I decided to buy a second home. Turned that one into a rental. One of the things that if people really understand and really take advantage of the program, it's so much more than 10 grand. Like for most people, 10 grand isn't gonna change your life, but the access and the community that you get through being an active member of Tulsa absolutely can be life-changing.

5 (4m 38s):
I think 90% stay beyond their first year. 76% of people have stayed since the program began and that began in 2018. So it's, it's got a impressive retention rate. So

0 (4m 48s):
Who's coming to Tulsa? Tell me about who you and Hady met.

5 (4m 50s):
It was actually a wider variety of people than I'd expected. I met people in their twenties, thirties, forties and fifties. It was really all over the place. I mean generally I would say what's similar about everyone I met was, you know, they're sort of ambitious. They have these remote jobs but they also find that something like community is very important to them. I think it's self-selecting in the sense that it's bringing people who already want community and wanna put themselves out there and wanna meet other people and wanna be involved. So you know, they're sort of industrious lot. So

9 (5m 18s):
I bought my first house with the 10 grand and I started flipping houses in Midtown. Now I'm doing like I got a 53 unit apartment complex and we're rolling that in the whole like community redevelopment.

5 (5m 27s):
Holy, I talked to Elena Haskins, she's this 26 year old UX designer. She moved from Brooklyn.

1 (5m 33s):
I was gonna move to Argentina. I was going to get a car and live in a new city every month or I was gonna come here and I couldn't decide. And I thought, well why don't we start with Tulsa cuz it's only a year and here we are more than a year later.

5 (5m 53s):
She said what really drew her to the place after you know she was accepted, she started talking to people on the Slack channels, was this allure of community, this idea that she could be a part of things that she could, you know, get involved. That she could have this big friend group in a way that she didn't seem to have in Brooklyn because it felt so isolating. So

1 (6m 12s):
I did talk to a lot of people who were in the program before I came and they're like, oh this is so great, this is so great. I made all these friends, I have these new hobbies. I started new business. So hearing that just that didn't leave my head. So I kept thinking, you know, maybe that could happen to me.

5 (6m 28s):
There's something like 160 slack channels for these Tulsa River Motors and It ranges in things from book clubs to biking to people with you know, two to six year olds and six to 10 year olds.

1 (6m 38s):
Like anyone who is like, oh I can't really make friends or I haven't found an c I like, they're honestly not trying because we are bombarded with so many opportunities to find something that you like or someone.

5 (6m 54s):
She was a sort of adventurous person. I think the next weekend she was gonna go primitive camping is I think the term for it. She wanted to sort of put herself out there, see what she could do. She ended up starting her own business. She's got a lot of stuff that she wants to try and I think she saw a lot of other people there who were sort of like-minded.

0 (7m 20s):
When a person moves there, how are they introduced to the community? Is there like a mixer?

10 (7m 25s):
Welcome to our in-person orientation?

5 (7m 28s):
Yeah, there are something like 16 events each month. Oh and these are done by Tulsa remote and some of them are for members only, you know, get them used to each other, things like that. But a lot of them have the community there. One of the events we went to while we were there was an orientation.

10 (7m 42s):
So who are the members you are point to yourself? Me, right? So

5 (7m 49s):
What do we, there was 50 new Tulsa remotes and they come there and they kind of learn the ropes, they learn about all the Slack channels, they learn about the different things they have access to, but they also meet a bunch of people from the town. We ran into someone named Tim Bu he was a software engineer from New Orleans. He just moved to Tulsa two weeks earlier. He's out on the rooftop and this guy comes up to him and they start talking and this guy is part of score, which is this business group that kind that for free offers people business help, it shows you how to start a new business or do a side project. And turns out Teamer was like,

11 (8m 23s):
So I definitely, I wanna transition to working for myself as a software engineer and possibly as a photographer. Okay. Don't know where to start. So definitely want to connect with you and talk about that.

5 (8m 31s):
And so this guy's like, oh well here, call me. I'll tell you what to do. If, you have ever had any problems, you know, like it's free of charge. Come ask me about it. And

12 (8m 39s):
Whether they're accountants or attorneys or CPAs or engineers or whatever. And so we got somebody who can help you with that. Yeah, for sure. And it's a great place to start. And like I said, everything we do, we do for free

5 (8m 51s):
And It. So they set them up with people like community stakeholders like that. There were people there signing them up to vote, that sort of thing. And then there's more community service stuff, you know, just volunteering, that sort of thing. What does Tulsa have that makes it a cool place to live? If you're 20 something, you know, I'm a 30 something now, so like take this with a grain of salt. But it felt pretty cool to me. Like there were really nice coffee shops, there were nice restaurants, there were young people about it. It's a nice looking city. We were driving around with Grant Bumgarner, he's a Pulson native and he went away to college, came back and he was saying that a lot of stuff that I, I was looking at was

13 (9m 27s):
A parking lot, a vacant building or a warehouse space. Hmm. Everything you see is new and renovated or remodeled.

5 (9m 36s):
One place we went to was the Gathering place. It's this giant park, it's so fomo inducing like it's a beautiful, beautiful sprawling park with natural plants and open meadows and these like basketball courts lined with wild flowers.

13 (9m 50s):
Yeah, we've got a sports court, it's a skate park, a BMX pump track and science and math museum, all sorts of stuff.

5 (9m 57s):
There's a lot of stuff that you could see like, okay this is, this is a nice place to be. It's a completely approachable and sort of fun city. But it felt, it felt cool but not too cool. Oklahoma is a, is a conservative state. Yeah. Yeah. And this is something I asked a lot of people in the Tulsa remote program about, because you know, recently the state of Oklahoma has enacted all these really regressive laws.

14 (10m 22s):
Oklahoma put into effect the strictest abortion ban in this country, right this moment.

15 (10m 28s):
We want Oklahoma to be the most pro-life state in the country. We want to outlaw abortion.

5 (10m 35s):
There's no gender affirming care for young people. We

16 (10m 38s):
Are simply delaying the day at which someone might choose to access gender affirming care to a time when they might be more mature.

5 (10m 49s):
And so I asked these people who are moving from a lot of liberal places and a lot of liberal people in general, like, you know, how does it feel like, is that okay to you? And you know, the response I got was, yeah, that's concerning. Yeah.

8 (11m 2s):
So I am reminded when I'm out of my bubble and I had to get some, you know, medical things taken care of. And so that's when I'm reminded of that. That's my next question. So when I wanna have those conversations, I have to, I'm reminded of where I am.

5 (11m 14s):
I talked to a woman named Montana Kane. She's a black woman who moved from South Carolina and you know, she loves it in Tulsa. She's found her partner there. She started a business, she's got this really big social network of people, of other people like her. you know, she said it's sort of a bit of a bubble she's created. But like at the same time she says when she's traveling to Oklahoma City, she doesn't wanna stop at small gas stations, you know, for fear of racism or any, you know, sort of violence or something like that.

8 (11m 40s):
I'm not stopping at Mama's gas station, you better go find a qt. you know, like I am always on the defense. So I'm very clear that when I drive anywhere outside of Tulsa, I do not drive at night.

5 (11m 51s):
She also says, you know, when she's looking for maternal care, she doesn't want to, you know, maybe go to a hospital that has a religious affiliation in case something were to happen. So she said as a businesswoman, as someone just like a single person starting out here, it's great. But you know, when I start thinking about the future, it's a little more uncertain for me.

8 (12m 10s):
I've never been stopped by the police. don don't want to, don't ever plan to, you know, but that's something that I fear my partner drives late at night. I am scared for him. So it's in those instances where I'm like, okay, fantasy over back to reality.

0 (12m 24s):
I'm putting myself in the shoes of someone who is from Tulsa maybe whose family goes back generations. And I'm thinking about this newcomer who says, I don't wanna go to a small gas station. I'm worried about going to a hospital in, in a city like this.

5 (12m 40s):
Right.

0 (12m 40s):
And I, I feel some kind of way about that. Right. I feel some kind of way hearing that cuz cuz she's, cuz she's the new one and I've been here. What do people from Tulsa think of this?

5 (12m 50s):
Yeah, it's funny you asked Howdy and I like actually went knocking on doors trying to get people to be like, you know, what do you, what's the real deal with Tulsa remote? Like how do you feel about this? Yeah, and you know, largely people were pretty open to it. Like I didn't get any like, horrible criticism about it.

17 (13m 14s):
It seems like a really cool program. I have a few friends in it. I have a lot of yoga students that came through Tulsa remote and anytime they showed up in class, they all seem to like Tulsa and wanna stick around.

5 (13m 25s):
We talked to a man named David Beary, he's a mental health technician. He's been there for 40 years. He said, you know, most of his interactions with people in Tulsa remote have been pretty good. Every

18 (13m 36s):
Everyone I've met over the years, even some of my neighbors have been really cool that moved here because of that. And I think he's been in more than likely a, a positive thing for the future of Tulsa. I don't know if everyone feels that way. I, I feel like some people get upset with raising rents and such.

5 (13m 59s):
You said maybe it would be better if, if they spent more money on the people who were here rather than bringing people in.

18 (14m 4s):
There's always been a brain drain here and a lot of that can be attributed to probably the politics. you know, the more educated people get, they wanna leave a lot of times and that sucks. And so just offering a little bit of a, an incentive to people who got their educations and grew up elsewhere to come here seems okay, like don don't have a problem with that. But it also seems pretty shortsighted when there's also people who live here

0 (14m 44s):
Coming up after the break, you heard some of the Tulsa Remoters say that 10 grand is not a ton of money, but you add that up over 2,400 people and It sort of is so where's all that money coming from and are longtime residents of the city being

19 (14m 59s):
Left out

20 (15m 10s):
This September? The code conference enters a new era. Join me, Nili Patel, editor-in-Chief of the Verge and my two co-hosts, platformers Casey Newton and CNBC's Julia Borson. As we talk to the leaders making headlines in tech, business, politics and the messy collision between them all, we'll dig deep into the topics that are shaping our world like AI streaming and the future of social media. And as always with code, no one will be safe from the hot seat. You can apply to attend the code conference at Vox media.com/code. That's Vox media.com/code.

0 (15m 57s):
It's today explained. We're back with Vox correspondent Rani Moola who when last we spoke was knocking doors in Tulsa to see what Native Tulsans think about this remote work scheme and Rani, some of them told you they're upset about rents going up.

5 (16m 11s):
It was less about the newbies and more about like what about us?

19 (16m 14s):
There is something about it that discredits the people that are already here and maybe like the artists and entrepreneurs that are from here and live here and they could use that money.

5 (16m 27s):
We talked to a woman who's a chef and you know she has her own entrepreneurial dreams but she hadn't heard about these programs that are there to help entrepreneurs in Tulsa.

19 (16m 35s):
I mean it's kind of, I'm at a loss at how I hadn't heard about that naturally cuz I'm in with a lot of the things in the culture here. Yeah, you feel part of the community but you know, very much a part of the community. I had no idea

5 (16m 47s):
And she was sort of upset like, hey, how come I haven't heard about that? And the thing is, you know, the people who live in Tulsa don't have an orientation event, right. To like the amenities that are there for them in their city that are there. you know, because the city itself and also because of this billionaire funding all of these different programs. But I think it might be in some ways a marketing thing. Like how do you get the people there to know what's available to them so that they're not feeling like, hey, you're just paying people $10,000 to come in here and you know, complain. Okay.

0 (17m 16s):
So people in Tulsa are saying, why don't you spend some money on us? It seems like a fair point of view, 2,400 people times $10,000 is 24 million just on grants to get people to move to Tulsa. And then there's obviously other money involved here, you know, these mixers and et cetera, et cetera. Where is all the money coming from?

5 (17m 36s):
So the Tulsa remote program is funded by the George Kaiser Family Foundation. George Kaiser is a local billionaire who has pledged to give away more than half of his wealth. A lot of it's going towards young Tulsans. He does suffer for early education. There's a lot of these accelerator programs that teach Tulsans how to code, that sort of thing. And he's also investing in Tulsa remote. So that's, that's where a lot of money for these programs and programs like it and just public works in general in Tulsa is coming from,

21 (18m 5s):
My motivation for philanthropy was largely guilt because I realized that I gained advantages by being born in an advanced society with loving parents.

0 (18m 16s):
Okay, so George Kaiser is a local guy at the same time that he's asking or enticing new people, incentivizing new people to come in. Is he doing anything to keep locals from moving out?

5 (18m 28s):
Yeah, there were a bunch of programs that I heard about. One was this Cyber Skills Center and It helps local Tulsans get coding degrees, you know, I think it's in cybersecurity, data science, that sort of thing.

22 (18m 41s):
So before I went to school at Holberton for full stack, I was doing hair and have been for seven years. And the reason I decided to change is when the pandemic happened I was not able to work for six months. So because of that I have a daughter to take care of and I, what can I do from home? If there's another pandemic, what can I do that I can still provide for me and my daughter and It was this,

5 (19m 7s):
These are people who are taking advantage of these programs. They're subsidized again by George Kaiser.

23 (19m 11s):
Oh yeah, daddy Kaiser's all in that.

22 (19m 14s):
He gives us our monthly allowance when we're good. Yep.

5 (19m 17s):
And they, they get like a monthly stipend so that they can afford to go to the school,

23 (19m 20s):
I guess get accepted into Holberton and then you have to make less than $60,000 a year in order to qualify for up to $1,500 a month in stipend.

5 (19m 29s):
Well I think they have to pay back some of it once they make a certain amount of money, but until they get a job in their career, it's, it's free. They're using these programs in order to get jobs. A lot like the people in Tulsa remote have, you know, they want these knowledge work jobs at computers where they get paid a lot of money and you know, if there's another pandemic that happens, they could work from home. And that doesn't mean that they're gonna lose their income. There's also things like build in Tulsa, which helps black entrepreneurs. There's a lot of programs like that, but you know, obviously you have to hear that they exist.

24 (20m 2s):
I mean you're from here, you go to college here. You said you're an entrepreneur. That's how you introduced yourself. Like do you think there should be more programs to maybe try to help you build and stay here? Yeah,

25 (20m 12s):
I do know there is one that's already doing that here in Tulsa. It's cost Sky's the limit. So If, you are a small business owner and you're looking to get some funding. I got funded from them. It wasn't $10,000, but they do have several opportunities for you to get funded. So that's just for small

0 (20m 27s):
Businesses. Rani, we're at a point now where more and more people are being asked to come back into the office by their employers and more and more people are just deciding they want to go back into the office. They don't like remote work as much as they thought they would three years in. What do you think happens in Tulsa? Do you think this 2,400 is sort of peak move to Tulsa? Or do you think this keeps going?

5 (20m 49s):
No, I think it keeps going because you know, obviously there are, there's a callback to the office, but like, I don't wanna overstate the callback to the office. Like still 20% of people who can work, work from home full-time do, and that's many multiples higher than it was before the pandemic. Even if this isn't everybody, this is a big chunk of the population that is now sort of footloose and able to be like, Hey, maybe I could live in a cheaper city. I asked Tulsa remote, you know, what's happened to applications and they said, you know, soon as the pandemic hit it's gone up and It has not gone down. Some of the people who've moved there for Tulsa remote, you know, maybe their jobs have called them back, they've gotten different jobs or started their own business. So Tulsa remote doesn't see it as a, as an issue.

0 (21m 30s):
I mean, you've talked about some upsides, some downsides, some resentments here, but it does appear to be working. Do you think other cities that are struggling to either retain or to attract population might start doing things like this?

5 (21m 42s):
A lot of other cities have, I think there's maybe something like 70, definitely dozens of cities across America, you know, from Muncie, Indiana to Bentonville, Arkansas are starting programs like this because it makes a lot of sense. you know, you offer a headline incentive and then you get it back manyfold over because these people come in with their big incomes and buy houses and spend money and live there for a long time. Ideally,

0 (22m 7s):
Rani Let me ask you, Leslie, would you move to Tulsa?

5 (22m 12s):
I was talking about this a lot with Hady during our trip. I was like, you know, I I could totally see it. It it's livable, it's it, I sent my sister a link on Zillow. you know, when I got there, I, we found this, like, I found this beautiful mid-century modern sprawling house on a wooded lot in Tulsa and It was, you know, way cheaper than you could buy it anywhere else. I mean it, it was still expensive, but it was like, it was I think maybe like 300 or $400,000, but it was for a five bedroom, three bath house and It was just pristine, you know, it was, it was out of control.

5 (22m 54s):
But obviously like people there are probably like, yeah, that's a lot of money because of the average home price in Tulsa is, you know, 190,000. But when you hear that from anywhere else, you're like, wow, that's, that's a lot. I mean. I don't know if I personally would do it, just I've got my own good thing upstate New York in my own middle of the woods place. But I, I could definitely see the draw, especially if I were a little bit more footloose. If I was looking for something new, I could definitely see that being a place to start. It was attractive in a lot of ways to me.

0 (23m 32s):
Today's episode was produced by Hai Mawajdeh who told me that he In fact applied to be part of Tulsa remote.

26 (23m 40s):
Yeah, Noel. I did apply and after visiting Tulsa, I would totally live there if only we could get Vox to allow their employees to live in Oklahoma.

0 (23m 53s):
It was edited by Matthew Collette. Laura Bullard is our fact checker, and Michael Rayfield is our engineer. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.