1 (2s):
This episode is brought to you by US Cellular. There's never been a better time to switch to US Cellular because now when you do you'll get 50% off select new smart phones like the Samsung Galaxy S 10 e or the Google pixel for a great choice on a great phone now, that's fair US Cellular choose Fair terms apply. Explain,

3 (34s):
it's Tuesday, February 11 2020. And you know what? That means right its primary time. It's New Hampshire time. And when you Hampshire's trying to figure out who should be president New Hampshire throws House parties, and because no one likes to go to a house party alone. I'm going with Lauren children from New Hampshire Public Radio

1 (51s):
get pom if you wanted to get in the middle of the mythology of New Hampshire first the nation primary a house party is the best place to start cool basically a house party is just a person having some people over to their house and one of them just so happens to be a presidential candidate. But this is the thing that makes New Hampshire so special or at least the people who defend it and why we should be first aid so special because this is an opportunity where voters in New Hampshire can get that one-on-one experience with a presidential candidate and some would argue that these House parties are not just good. For the voters because they get a real sense of this candidate, but it's also good for the candidate because the candidates end up shaping their policy positions based on the conversations that they have with these voters.

1 (1m 40s):
So they're like high-stakes small Gatherings with lots of wine and tea and snacks. Hmm. No beer. Well, I mean, I guess it would be

3 (1m 47s):
bear. I just know you know, Elizabeth Warren and P Buddha judge like an IPA here and there

1 (1m 52s):
hold on a sec. I'm gonna get me a beer. So why is this? Party traditions so important. Well, it's important because it signals this classic quintessential style of New Hampshire primary politics, but we're in this weird moment in National politics where the primary calendar the way we elect President may be coming a little bit more nationalized whether that's because of the internet social media the way we consume news or because the way the DNC is running these debates by setting these high thresholds for people to get on the stage. That has people in New Hampshire kind of in a tense moment where some of them feel like they've got to defend these old fashion styles and you know, try and ward off the power of them were nationalized primary system.

3 (2m 41s):
Okay, and you got invited to one of these parties.

1 (2m 43s):
Oh, you better believe I did and not only did we get invited but we got invited through an amazing

3 (2m 48s):
voice mail. Good morning. This is represented or Marjorie Smith calling

1 (2m 53s):
wears a longtime State Rep from New Hampshire Marjorie Smith told I thought you might be

3 (2m 60s):
interested and an invitation to what might very well be one of the last old-fashioned New Hampshire primary chats and to see how at least it used to be done and what the value is in it

1 (3m 17s):
and she wanted to commiserate with us about what she sees as the death of the New Hampshire primary. So obviously I had to go to that

3 (3m 24s):
Sean. All right. We'll take us there. What was it? Like, how was the wine?

1 (3m 27s):
Well, I am. Get to drink the wine. I was working consummate professional. I Lauren I'm Marquess Smith. My pleasure, very excited. Basically, it's about 40 people showing up to meet Senator Michael Bennet from Colorado. This is a guy who is all in on New Hampshire who is trying to use this old fashion style of campaigning to boost his low Name ID really grateful to have the chance forgeries be here with

3 (3m 57s):
all of you and in this beautiful place what an incredible house and what an amazing

1 (4m 2s):
setting it was very interesting. It was exactly what was promised. You know Senator Bennet stood in this huge room and marjorie's house or at the piano and all this art and everyone sat on her couches and chairs asked him questions, and he answered every single one of them. So in a sense this was what was promised people in New Hampshire have a big responsibility and people in New Hampshire are confused about what to do with that responsibility. So, how are you going to win, New Hampshire bye-bye on confusing you?

3 (4m 36s):
Look,

1 (4m 37s):
I only used to spend a lot of time here

3 (4m 40s):
and there and the way I'm going to win it is by being in the living room after living room after living room after living room answering every question that Margie will let me answer and

1 (4m 50s):
cutting me off when I've gone on for too long. I mean and so people names are are you know, pretty clued into this idea that they still occupy this special role as like first in the nation voters and so even if it's just 40 people those 40 people that showed up they know Oh that their role is important and they're taking it seriously what you saw tonight was unstaged unprogrammed. No planted questions a group of thoughtful concerned the Hampshire voters who asked questions and listened and they gained energy and so did he but the thing is is that the house party is running up against not just that AIDS but also rallies candidates like Senator Bernie Sanders in 2016, Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders won the New Hampshire primary and they were mostly able to do so because they held these big rallies that's not the style of politics that usually happens around here.

1 (5m 52s):
And the thing is those rallies are also effective and the people who love them would argue to you that they can be just as intimate and just as filled with Community as a house party can and have you

3 (6m 4s):
been to a rally for some

1 (6m 5s):
Parison, I actually went to a rally right up the street from representative Marjorie Smith's house. How was it it was like 700 people. This is kind of Senator Warren. She does a lot of these high. Why did you decide? Oh, wait. Tell me her name. I'm Natalie. Hi, Natalie, Natalie. Would you be insulted if I ask how old you are? No, I'm 10. Whoa. All right, Natalie. The end ready to do a little democracy. Okay, my kind of gal. Okay, Natalie. Why did you decide to to run for to become a president?

1 (6m 48s):
I was brought around by two other state lawmakers state representative Gabby Grossman and state representative Deborah all Schiller. And basically they wanted to prove to me that the new hamster style is alive and well that you can still see that intimacy that community that can be built in a house party in a rally. Relation between the two of us. We would know like two-thirds of the people that are in line because this is our home these this I'm going to run into half of these people at Market Basket after this actually, you know, and then we're going to pick up our dry cleaning next to each other and be like, oh, I just saw you at the thing. This is their Community. It's still very New Hampshire. It's just in a bigger room. Thank you everyone for coming and the photo line for your selfies will start right over here and folks with kids.

1 (7m 34s):
You can come to the front of the Fine and they would argue listen for every person that's healthy line. That's a person with a problem an issue that needs to be solved. Right and they're getting a chance to be one-on-one with someone running for president and they can say hey Elizabeth Warren. This is what means a lot to me. Will you considered, you know picking up this issue on the campaign Trail or where you consider changing your position on this and for them that shows that the intimacy of the New Hampshire primary is still very possible. I mean, it's electric. It's electric. We are that concentrated boiled down. Cider, that's about to turn into syrup. You know, like a apple cider syrup to put on ice cream. Like that's what is happening in this room right here.

3 (8m 14s):
Do you think this Rich tradition of the house party and getting that face time with a candidate and maybe changing his or her mind on something isn't being lost in this new media driven rally selfie Centric tradition. I think that the

1 (8m 29s):
primary is in a really interesting moment right now. I talked to a guy Who is like well, you know what they say Iowa picks for New Hampshire picked presidents. Like that's the joke over here. Obviously everyone is looking at us anyway, but now it feels like the pressure is on for us to perform because we might be the first place that delivers official results and that could make us more powerful provide more momentum to candidates and the even more interesting or impactful than we could have been otherwise, so I mean it really puts the heat on us for sure.

1 (9m 13s):
Lauren children is a reporter in New

3 (9m 14s):
Hampshire Public Radio. She's also one of the hosts of its Stranglehold podcast that might sound like a true crime show to you, but it's all about New Hampshire's first in the nation presidential primary. Maybe you can finish the whole thing today while you wait for results after the break. I'll talk to

1 (9m 30s):
vaux's Elena nilsen about the

3 (9m 32s):
foot race in New Hampshire. I'm Sean Rama's firm. Its today explain.

1 (9m 42s):
Hey, it's Kara Swisher. You may know me as the only person who looks cool wearing sunglasses indoors. But in my spare time, I host a podcast called Rico decode every week. We talk about power change in the people. You need to know around Tech and Beyond some of my recent guests include Edward Snowden Megan Rapinoe and the cast of The L Word which was a huge thrill for me. If any of these sound interesting to you, you should listen them now on Rico decode subscribe to the show for free on Apple podcast or in your favorite podcast app to be the first to hear new interviews every week.

3 (10m 15s):
Hey, so I've been getting emails from listeners and sometimes even tweet saying like how can we support the work that you are doing that today explain is doing that Vox is doing and usually I'm just like I don't know share it. But now there is a different way to support today explained and vaux Vox is launching a contribution effort right now and vox.com give you can give money you can contribute to help Vox make podcasts to The explanatory journalism that you depend on and right now in this crisis is more important than it's ever been so you can choose what that work is worth to you and give to support Vox and today explained and all the stuff that you love that we do go to vox.com give right now and make your contribution just a heads up.

3 (11m 8s):
It's not tax deductible. But thank you so much for your support.

1 (11m 16s):
twins 22 22 22 Senator Sanders, I still can't believe all this mess happened and I will because of a nap.

3 (11m 30s):
Hey, I have an idea for an app. It's called MOA. No computers. No gadgets. No gizmos solve to your polling place. Take a number like you do with the butcher you walk up to the counter and say to the guy give me a pound of whatever's about to go bad. Ellen Nelson politics Vox you've been hanging out in New Hampshire since the Clock Struck 2020. The first thing everyone wants to know is Will New Hampshire go better than Iowa. I think it's going to go way better than Iowa. It's a completely different system than Iowa Iowa has caucuses New Hampshire has a primary and the difference between that is, you know, Iowa has literal in-person voting where you have to go to a school gym.

3 (12m 17s):
You know church basement where Union Hall to literally sort yourself into a group depending on which candidate you support and then you're counted that way. There's realignment there was this very confusing process this year. We're Iowa in addition to doing State Delegate equivalents was also doing raw vote totals so that we're like literally three different sets of numbers that people could spend to their advantage and determining who won and who lost so New Hampshire there is none of that. That in New Hampshire voters are going to go into the polls with their ballot. They're going to have pencils to fill out their preference on that ballot that paper ballot will then be dropped into either a box in some of the smaller towns and literally be counted out by election officials there or it will be scanned via an electronic machine, you know elections officials that I've talked to you here.

3 (13m 10s):
I think estimate after polls close at 8:00 p.m. On Tuesday night. We should start knowing results probably. Around 8:30 or 9:00 results will start coming in. It's tough to say how long that will take. But I think that it's going to be a lot different than Iowa for all those who stopped paying attention to Iowa like, you know days after the actual caucuses. What was the official result there? Do we have official results? Yeah. The official results came in on Sunday night as everybody was watching the Oscars. So, you know perfect timing. A couple of years ago. There was a big disaster here at the Oscars would they accidentally read out the wrong name?

3 (13m 51s):
And it was nobody's fault, but they have guaranteed that this will not happen this year because the academy has switched to the new

1 (13m 57s):
Iowa caucus app a week

3 (13m 59s):
after the actual contest took place the Iowa Democratic party determined that P Buddha judge was head sort of eked out this win. As far as delegates were concerned from Bernie Sanders. Bernie Sanders also declared Victory based on the raw vote counts because he did win the popular vote. In the first and second realignments. So I mean Buddha judge and Sanders both came out. I think the strongest from Iowa and New Hampshire but also had this weird effect where it let people who very clearly did not do well in Iowa skate into New Hampshire as well and start gaining some momentum who's gaining momentum in New Hampshire. I think that Amy Klobuchar is the biggest benefactor here. I mean, she had put everything on Iowa. I mean she had gone to like all 99 counties or something and you know, she was she was banking on doing very well.

3 (14m 45s):
There are experts in Hampshire told me that she needed to do very well there and she came in fifth place. So she did not really over perform. But because we didn't know the results until a full week later. She was kind of just able to go to New Hampshire and start campaigning as if nothing had really happened there and it's been really interesting. I mean, she has been generating some of her largest crowds this weekend and her campaign has been posting some of its strongest fundraising days to date so she's doing pretty well here. Hmm tell me more about their I mean, we spent the first half of the show talking about this shift from House Parties to rallies in New Hampshire. But what do people need to know about the state to better understand tonight's results.

3 (15m 31s):
The New Hampshire is a small New England State. It's home to about 1.3 million people the vast majority of which are white, although there is interesting Lee enough a growing Refugee population here as well. So I mean New Hampshire has had this distinction of being first since the 1950s, but the general ethos and storyline around New Hampshire and why it goes first is that New Hampshire voters are very Discerning. They certainly are very politically engaged. I mean, we have like a Bonkers large State Legislature here with like over 400 people in it. So it's basically like a citizen legislature. If you look at the size of our population, there's town meeting every year that a lot of people go to and you know in every town across the A state so basically the thought is that presidential candidates come here in addition to coming to Iowa for a year out before the primary.

3 (16m 25s):
So we get all this time with them that other states larger more populous and more diverse States typically don't get and so the idea is like this makes better presidential candidates. And also when it comes time for election day New Hampshire kind of serves to winnow the field down to the most serious candidates and do you get the sense of So there's lots of undecided voters at this point or does everyone kind of got their favorite picked out. Oh, yeah. There are still a lot of undecided voters people have told me that they are probably going to make their decision up in the voting booth the day of nice. I talked to somebody Sunday at a peak Budaj rally who was still torn between Amy Klobuchar and people who judge and I would have to say that that is like a very common Duo that people are considering like more moderate voters.

3 (17m 15s):
I would say our are really Stuck between those two and the other thing that is kind of interesting is because Iowa was such a mess. I think a lot of Voters here are feeling like, oh my God, this responsibility is like really falling on us people know that this will have bearing on the rest of the race and they are already thinking ahead to that general election matchup with Trump and sort of trying to game out like who is going to be the best person to go up against him and defeat him. And despite people being caught between Pete and Amy. The man to beat is Bernie, right? He handily won the Primary against Hillary Clinton in 2016.

3 (17m 59s):
Yeah. I mean the latest polling that we have he's like about six points ahead of the nearest candidate behind him, which is Buddha judge. Everybody knows that Bernie's base is like 20 to 25% maybe 30 percent of the electorate here in New Hampshire if you kind of look at Like who voted for him last time and how much of that support he can hold on to because I think right now there is a real battle for like who the moderate candidate will be in in a way that he has just kind of like swept the progressive Lane and is now the front-runner in that lane and are people in New Hampshire worried at all that if they pick Bernie, they're picking a candidate that may not be able to beat Donald Trump because his views are too far to the left of the American mainstream.

3 (18m 44s):
That was something that certainly came up at the last debate. 8:00 on Friday

1 (18m 47s):
night. Is anyone else on the stage concerned about having a Democratic Socialist the top of the democratic ticket? I'm not Senator Klobuchar Bernie and I work together all the time, but I think we are not going to be able to out divide the divider in Chief and I think we need someone to head up this ticket that actually brings people with her instead of shutting them

3 (19m 11s):
out. Yeah, I think that's something that some people are worried about and I mean if you look Beyond New Hampshire like As far as arguments about electability goes I mean besides Joe Biden who is still leading among African-American voters in South Carolina Like Bernie Sanders is closing that Gap among black voters and he has strong support among Latino voters. So like sure, you know, maybe among white moderate voters he is you could make that argument that he's not as electable. But if you kind of look at the country as a whole and look at the demographics of people that are supporting him, it could be a little tougher to make that case. So yeah if If Bernie does well in New Hampshire, I think that it's kind of going to be maybe this like Awakening moment for some people that didn't think he could get this far to say like, oh, no, there's actually something going on here with him.

3 (20m 1s):
Well, will you be available to talk to us tomorrow about it when we get the

1 (20m 4s):
results? How late

3 (20m 7s):
are you guys gonna be up as late as we need to be Ella. Will you be up to I will definitely be up. Yes. Well, let's let's chitchat make a podcast. What do you say? Sounds good to me.