4 (2s):
This episode is brought to you by course correction a production of Doha debates and Qatar Foundation hosted by journalist. Nellie for hidayat each week. Nella fur takes on new challenges to confront the world's problems head on the challenge is to only live on 50 liters of water a day like a shower and connects with the people most affected by global crises.

2 (27s):
Are they put us in a very small cells a presence

3 (30s):
and so I was very dehumanizing

4 (31s):
experience. Challenge yourself to change the world find course correction presented by Doha debates wherever you get your podcasts. This episode is sponsored by Westworld its back for a thrilling third season on Sunday, March 15th, only on HBO. No spoilers. But this time the hosts are out in the real world with a whole new fight and understanding the cost of Free Will. Don't miss jaw-dropping performances from Evan Rachel Wood Aaron Paul, Dandy Newton, Jeffrey Wright and Ed Harris West world's daring new season starts Sunday, March 15th at 9 p.m. Only on Bo I'm 1028

1 (1m 17s):
explain. Let me explain

3 (1m 19s):
Andrew Prokop Vox Six States hold primaries yesterday. What are we calling this

2 (1m 24s):
Tuesday? Some have called it super Tuesday to I've also seen it referred to as big Tuesday mini Tuesday, you're fast Tuesday. It's a sad situation. I mean next time around Democrats really have to get it together and come up with better names for some of these non-super days.

3 (1m 44s):
So what what's our big take away from what happened last

2 (1m 46s):
night? It was a very bad night for Bernie Sanders and his chances of winning the nomination. This was the first actual voting day where we were down to two candidates, Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders Biden had clearly gain the advantage on super Tuesday, but now it was a two-way contest and Sanders needed to really change the Dynamics of the race. And he very much did not do

3 (2m 15s):
that.

2 (2m 18s):
He got utterly blown out in Mississippi and Missouri lost pretty strongly in Michigan as well a state he has affection for because he pulled off a surprising upset Victory against Hillary Clinton are in 2016. He also even lost Idaho, which is a white rural State and showcases some of the differences. In Bernie's Coalition this time

3 (2m 47s):
around. Was there any good news for Bernie last night?

2 (2m 51s):
Not really. He won the North Dakota caucuses, but that is a very small state and the actual margin of victory means that he will probably net about two delegates there. So it's not going to help him in the delegate count. Then there's Washington State we don't have a call yet as of the time of this recording but Only it looks like Biden and Bernie are about tied and that would really be a blow to Bernie in terms of the delegate count to be even in Washington state which was his single best state in terms of delegates last time it was just a huge defeat for him and calls into question how he is ever going to be able to turn this thing around going

3 (3m 40s):
forward. So let's focus on Michigan for a second because that's a state where Bernie surprisingly won in 2016 and lost pretty handily this time around to Biden. How did Biden pull off this Victory there?

2 (3m 57s):
I think it is a similar story that we seen in Michigan and across the country really once the field winnowed to two candidates a clear majority of democratic voters almost everywhere are supporting Joe Biden at this point and that What happened in Michigan Bernie beat Hillary? They're quite narrowly. It was about by one percentage point in 2016. So even then Michigan was more important in terms of the media narrative Bernie pulled off this come back. He got a lot of attention for it and people said, oh maybe this thing isn't over yet.

2 (4m 38s):
Not only did he not achieve that but he lost big he was down by about 15 percentage points. It's at the last count that I have seen and that bodes ill for Bernie in other Northern and Midwestern states particularly with significant black proportion of the electorate, but he has performed more weekly among working-class white voters as

3 (5m 8s):
well. I wonder also with Michigan, you know, Bernie beat Hillary and then lost a Biden and those two seem pretty In a lot of ways, how much do you think that can be chalked up to sexism?

2 (5m 19s):
Yeah. I mean, this is something that I hope is studied pretty closely there seem to be some pretty powerful arguments, you know, because when trying to find out why a certain politician lost it is helpful to have a situation that is quite similar in many respects because there are always many different factors that go into each Race So when you have Hillary Clinton, Joe Biden largely agree on most substantive issues. They're both establishment figures there were both running against Bernie Sanders and they both hope to run against Donald Trump in the general election.

2 (6m 1s):
Of course, there are differences as well this time around but you know, when I look at it just intuitively. I do wonder if there was a large chunk of the democratic electorate. It who sort of instinctively felt Joe Biden. He's a good guy Hillary Clinton something about her that I don't like and whether you put that down to Unique factors of their political history or due to sexism. I think there are strong arguments on both sides and you got to wonder how about what is unfolding

3 (6m 39s):
here? Bernie Sanders actually give a speech today about his campaign

1 (6m 42s):
today. I say to the Democratic establishment. Establishment in order to win in the future. You need to win the voters who represent the future of our country and you must speak to the issues of concern to

3 (7m 1s):
them for a second there. I thought he might actually drop out but I guess he doubled down.

2 (7m 6s):
So Bernie open the speech by saying that the most important thing is to beat Donald Trump in November

1 (7m 13s):
in my view. He is a race Just a sexist a homophobe a xenophobe and a religious bigot and he must be defeated and I will do everything in my power to make that

2 (7m 28s):
happen. Then he moved on to say that Tuesday's results were a bad night for him in terms of delegate math. He tried to point out a few bright spots including his win in North Dakota being about even in Washington and and more broadly. He said that Democratic voters were embracing his agenda as seen in exit polls and he pointed to his success among young voters.

1 (7m 56s):
We are winning the generational debate while Joe Biden continues to do very well with older Americans, especially those people over 65 our campaign continues to win the vast Girardi of the votes of younger

3 (8m 17s):
people if he's winning so many young people over. Why is he losing so badly

2 (8m 22s):
overall Bernie's theory of how he would reshape the electorate has hinged on mobilizing great numbers of people who don't ordinarily vote to turn out to the polls and that simply has not happened and certainly not happened in terms of young voters so far in the primaries and caucuses. Is this year? I saw one estimate that the median age of the democratic voter. This year has been 56 years old and that just goes to show that most democratic voters are older and if Bernie is getting blown out among older voters as he is then winning big among young voters doesn't really do much to counteract

3 (9m 11s):
that so

2 (9m 13s):
why is he staying it sober? He said he is looking forward to his first one-on-one debate against Joe Biden on Sunday

1 (9m 21s):
night. Let me be very Frank as to the questions that I will be asking Joe Joe. What are you going to do for the 500,000 people go bankrupt in our country because of medically related debt. And what are you going to do for the working people of this country and Small business people who are paying on average twenty percent of their incomes the

2 (9m 52s):
healthcare as far as Bernie's larger strategic thinking it is extremely unlikely at this point that Sanders will manage to make a comeback. Basically he'd have to win about 57% of pledged delegates remaining to pass Biden and that is very unlikely, but it is not impossible if this race Which has been volatile in the past were to turn back in Bernie's favor. If Bernie surged to say a 10 point lead in National polls, it's entirely plausible that he could end up winning about 57% of delegates going forward.

2 (10m 33s):
The problem is that the trends are all going in the wrong direction for Bernie at this point and there's little reason it seems that if things continue as they are to believe that He will be able to pull off that come back.

3 (10m 49s):
So you think next Tuesday March 17th could be decision time for the Bernie campaign.

2 (10m 54s):
Yeah, I obviously have no idea what Bernie will decide it's a very personal decision, but he's certainly going to have to think very hard about the best way forward for his ideas and his own influence and and that Best Way Forward may not be staying in the race, too.

3 (11m 15s):
Just lose big to Joe Biden everywhere. Bernie Sanders and Joe Biden clearly have a lot of differences, but they do have one thing in common. They teach be the oldest president ever elected and that might be a problem. That's next.

2 (11m 52s):
This is Advertiser

4 (11m 53s):
content all natural organic a complete meal in a bottle 88% of us will pay more for Foods. We think are healthy, but are those front of the Box claims the real deal your world

2 (12m 9s):
explained?

4 (12m 10s):
This is Health claims explained presented by Daily Harvest splashy Bright Health claims on boxes and packages are pervasive because they work. One study showed that seeing the word natural made people think a product contain fewer calories and a group of scientists in Switzerland found that the pleasure and reward centers of the brain light up when we just perceive ourselves to be making healthy food choices. This is problematic phrases. Like low fat or low sugar can be misleading because taking out naturally occurring fat or sugar can mean putting in less healthy ingredients and words like natural and healthy.

4 (12m 52s):
There are no formal rules around how to use them just being honest. So if you're trying to make good choices ignore the front of the box and go for the label on the back are the ingredients whole easy to identify and pronounce. They are a Harvest Chef crafted delicious food delivered right to your door, their smoothies bowls and soups are made of real food without fillers or additives with seventy five syllables. Go to Daily Harvest.com and enter promo code box for $25 off your first box. That's promo code vo X at Daily

3 (13m 26s):
Harvest.com Okay. I know a lot of people have a lot of thoughts about therapy personally. I'm a fan but I know how hard it is to make it actually happen. You need to figure out what kind of therapist you need where you can meet them whether your schedules have any chance of lining up if you're exhausted by the whole process or even if you've just started thinking about it better help is here for you better help has a team of licensed counselors standing by professionals who specialize in depression and anxiety. The better help counselors are also ready to discuss grief trauma stress anger and relationships.

3 (14m 6s):
Whatever it is. You want to talk about better help has a counselor ready for you. You can connect privately with a better help counselor through texts phone calls or video calls and get help on your own time at your own pace and at a rate you can actually afford and if you sign up right now, you'll get 10% off your first month with the code explained. So why not get help visit better help Dot Cam explained today that's better help.com explained.

1 (14m 39s):
12 to 20 20 to 22 to

3 (14m 44s):
Derek Thompson the Atlantic we still don't know who the Democratic nominee is going to be but we do know that whoever wins is going to be pretty old at the very least. We know that our next president is going to be over 70. Is that unusual?

2 (14m 57s):
It's extremely unusual. We are looking at an election in November where no matter who wins the election the person giving the inaugural address in January will be the oldest president. Ever delivering inaugural address and I think

3 (15m 12s):
this is a problem. So is this a new problem or has it been around for a while?

2 (15m 17s):
This is a relatively new thing in terms of just the extraordinary old - of the contest at the same time though. I think it clicks into a lot of geriatrics that exists in American power today a congress is just about older than it's ever been. If you look at the house Speaker the house whip the Senate Majority Leader. They are all older than 75. I've you find when you look across the corporate world that new CEOs are getting older. You look across the Science World. You see that Nobel Prize winners are getting older. So it seems like power across disciplines political corporate scientific power is getting older and as a result that intersection between old anise and power between what you might call Jaron talk recei ruled by the old and plutocracy ruled by the moneyed those are becoming And it's creating a scenario.

2 (16m 10s):
Where as I see it. There's a lot of negative facts about America that are the result of gerontocracy X plutocracy.

3 (16m 18s):
Hmm. So do we have any idea why why the change to gerontocracy?

2 (16m 23s):
So the way that I think about it is that there is a supply issue and a demand issue on the supply issue. You look at the pipeline of American leadership and it's extremely old you look at the fact that most of the people who are Ready to become president by dint of their political record. They tend to be in their 60s and 70s. You can also look at the fact that campaigns are becoming more expensive. It takes more money to win a presidential campaign and who has the money? Well, it's old people. It's not just the fact that older politicians have more money and they have more donor networks. It's also that they are more willing to leave the private sector and spend a decade being president.

2 (17m 7s):
Look at someone like Jeff Bezos.

3 (17m 9s):
Mark

2 (17m 9s):
Zuckerberg, if they run for president and become president that's 10 years of peak earnings power Peak productivity that they're cutting out of their life in order to live in the White House. Look at that old Trump in my Bloomberg, you know, what's their opportunity cost? They're both in their 70s their greatest achievements in the private sector are behind them. Like what else are they going to do with their 80s except spend money on political and National causes that are meaningful to them. So in a variety of ways, I think that the supply of leadership. Is trending toward

3 (17m 40s):
wholeness. What about the other side of the equation which is demand about voters preferences do voters prefer older

2 (17m 46s):
candidates. Yeah on the demand side. It's pretty simple. The American electorate is getting older Americans overall are on average older than they were 10 years ago, 20 years ago older people tend to vote for older people a finding of political science is that voters tend to like candidates that are somewhat their age. So when you add it all up, you know older voters preferring older. You're going to have an older sort of batch of

3 (18m 12s):
leadership. Is this just an American thing? I mean Europe's got a bunch of young politicians and they must have a lot of old people to

2 (18m 21s):
what's really interesting about Europe. Is that even though Europe is getting older faster than America. It turns out that the average age of European union leaders has actually declined in the last 30 years and what you look across the leadership at mccrone or Trudeau or Johnson and other oecd countries. They tend to be younger than 60. Boris Johnson, for example the prime minister of the UK is quote only 55, even though in the UK old people out vote young people by a really wide margin. In fact Biden Sanders and Trump are all older right now then any of the UK's five previous Prime Ministers today going back to Tony Blair.

2 (19m 6s):
So the u.s. Election is really extraordinarily old,

3 (19m 10s):
you know, you say that in France and and Canada, maybe they have an aging population. Ian but not aging candidates. I wonder if when we look at America and we have mayor Pete whose base was largely old white people and Bernie whose basis is clearly young people are they exceptions that prove the rule or are they just may be showing that America could be headed in a different

2 (19m 32s):
direction Bernie and Peter fast any exceptions because in many ways they are mirrors of the exact same phenomenon. Both of them are relatively popular politicians who are deeply dislike. Among their own age group. Bernie Sanders weakest age group is people over 65, which he clearly is and P. Buddha judges weakest demographic was people under 40, which he clearly is and I've thought a lot about why they might be strangely offensive to people that are their same age given the political science finding that typically voters, like people that are their age and I think in both cases, it's the same two things first.

2 (20m 12s):
It's about ideology the younger American Democratic cohort is pretty far to the left of the median American voter and Pete. Buddha judge was trying to be the median American voter. So in a way, he was a traitor to his generational identity. Bernie Sanders in many ways is the same thing. He comes from a generation that fought the Cold War and meanwhile here he is with all of these video clips saying yes the Soviets do this bad in the Cubans do this bad, but let's praise certain elements of their socialist policy. But in addition to these ideological differences, there's also something personal. When I talk to older people like say my grandmother and her friends in Michigan and I asked them Democratic voters lifelong Democratic voters.

2 (20m 55s):
Why don't you like Bernie Sanders is the same answer every single time. They don't like the way he presents himself. They hate the shouting. They hate the hair. They hit the flying risks. They hate it all and it's actually really similar when you sort of put that up next to the reason why young people don't like Pete Buddha judge their want more like flying wrists when we're flying this. They want Pete to do what Bernie does when Bruni shouts old people think he shouting at them and young people think he shouting it power shouting with them. He shouting with them on their behalf. He is their surrogate shouter and Pete. Buddha judge was never the surrogate shatter Pete. Buddha judge was always this 37 38 year old who looked like he was doing a emulation of someone who is 55 and it had been a senator for 30

3 (21m 40s):
years or someone who had been president for eight years

2 (21m 42s):
before say exactly

3 (21m 45s):
So I guess unless you are you know, a generation Trader, you know going against stereotypes or ideologies of your generation. You're probably going to be like by that generation of Voters. But if that does lead to a lot of old candidates is that necessarily a bad

2 (21m 60s):
thing. Yeah. I don't want this argument to sound like ageism. I don't want it to sound like anti experience and I don't want it to sound like I think young people should just run more stuff by dint of their age at the same time, you know to betray a And Hallmark cards age is not just a number ruled by the old is not harmless and there's three reasons why it's not

3 (22m 23s):
harmless

2 (22m 25s):
first. Jaron taka see is a cousin of plutocracy because wealth is concentrated among the old if you have a situation where older Americans are running everything from the corporate world to Congress in the senate in the White House that leads to a scenario. Where more Is entrenched that helps old moneyed interest and that means that the vast majority of Americans are cut out second. I think old governance can be bad governance because as Americans get older it is more likely that they suffer some kind of cognitive decline not all of them.

2 (23m 6s):
You have some people who could destroy you and me in a chess game and crossword puzzle right now and you also have some people who have early dementia early. A Alzheimer's and as a result because there's so much cognitive diversity among people in their 70s and 80s. It becomes more important. I think to have testing available to determine the cognitive health of America's leaders. If our leaders are going to have a median age of something like 75 76 and we don't have that right now and then number three this is more of a philosophical point, but I think the most important problem in the world right now is climate change and climate change is a sort of problem. Is going to be felt most acutely by younger generations.

2 (23m 49s):
And if you have older people who are not necessarily going to experience the biggest problems of climate change making decisions on behalf of the masses who will be experiencing this I see that as an incentive problem and I think that government of the elderly by the elderly for the elderly is not the right way to establish a government to help younger interest, especially when the problems we Face are in the

3 (24m 14s):
future. Okay. So assuming gerontocracy is a problem. Are there Solutions wealth taxes term limits.

2 (24m 23s):
I think that you know, maybe higher taxes can help maybe term limits can help but I also see clear downsides to those things as well a wealth tax for example is going to be I think really difficult to pass through a sort of moderate conservative government and that might be the wrong place to put America's political Capital if we get a Democratic president and then on term limits You know II want to be mindful of gerontocracy, but I also don't want to be anti experience and I think that you know, one of these side effects of of term limits is that term limits are a really clear tax on experience.

3 (25m 0s):
I wonder you know what you make of the fact that the two most successful leftist candidates who were both super popular among young people were 70 plus. I mean if a Bernie voter here's a conversation like this and they're like, well Bernie's the Who is really radical on climate change and radical on taxes and health care? I mean who cares that? He's old.

2 (25m 23s):
Nobody should Vote or not vote for any candidate because that candidates age. But also when you broaden the lens and look at American government, you have an American government that is older than it's ever been. And that might be a problem. Both parties need to do a much better job at building their pipeline building their bench of political leadership in not just their 60s and 70s, but their 30s through 50s as well. And I think any country that has a menu of viable presidents where every choice in the menu is older than 70 has a problem. It has a political pipeline problem and it has an electoral problem that said, I think that problem clearly isn't going to be fixed in 2020 because no matter what we are certainly Going to elect a president who by January will be the oldest president ever delivering inaugural

3 (26m 17s):
address. Derek Thompson is a staff writer at the Atlantic. I'm no I'm hassenfeld filling in for Sean Rama's firm while he's on vacation. This is today explained.