3 (6s):
It's Tuesday, April 21st, 2020 in the president has reached a deal with Congress. I'm Sean Rama's firm. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained Congressional leaders. And President Trump are shaking on a 500 billion dollar relief package that will replenish the paycheck Protection Program, which provides loans to small businesses the package also funds hospitals and coronavirus testing around. The country President Trump's solution to the pandemic sounds a lot like his solution to everything else close the borders. He announced the plan last night on Twitter were all grown-ups announced their plans writing that in light of the attack from the invisible enemy as well as the need to protect the jobs of our Great American citizens.

3 (48s):
I will be signing an executive order to temporarily suspend immigration into the United States. It's worth remembering that the United States has more confirmed cases of covid-19 than any other country on Earth that has Stop the governor of Georgia from promising to open up some businesses by Friday of this week. Including Jim's salons bowling alleys and tattoo parlors. Just the super dangerous stuff. Meanwhile, the mayor of Atlanta is urging residents to stay at home and then infectious disease specialist at Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta said opening up a section of the country is like having a peeing section in a swimming pool. Hong Kong reported no new infections for the first time since early March on Monday, but still announced an extension of social distancing measures today.

3 (1m 34s):
They're going to keep Jim's bars and playgrounds closed through early May and maintain a ban on public Gatherings of more than 4 idlis looking to ease its lockdown in early May the country's North was hit hardest but now the south is suffering Italy's Prime Minister promised to proceed with caution, and the price of oil has gone negative. I don't traffic in Oil, I ride a bike. So I looked up what that means in the New York Times and learned that if you happen to be in the position to accept delivery of a thousand barrels of oil and Oklahoma next month you could have been paid $37,000 to do so, that's how much demand for oil has fallen. There's way too much to go around and storage is running out President Trump today said we will never let the great us oil and gas industry down.

3 (2m 21s):
He said that on Twitter in case you're wondering today explained will Try never let you down. Keep us honest email today explain to vox.com or tweet at us were at today underscore explained. I'm a trauma sperm or you can call us at two. Oh two six eight eight five nine, four four and leave us a message on our listener voicemail line. When it comes to thinning hair, you know someone with thinning hair I know someone with thinning hair apparently something like 80 million men and women in the United States experienced thinning hair, but now there's a drug-free step you can take to treat it. I have never felt more like a late-night infomercial but check this out.

3 (3m 1s):
Try neutrophil neutrophil is a hundred percent drug-free formulated with pure Botanical situation to grow hair. That's as strong as you are gosh darn it. You can grow thicker. Healthier hair and support this show off that by going to neutrophil.com and use the code explain to get 20% off. It's their best offer available anywhere. They say plus free shipping on every order 20% off at neutrophil.com. Use the code explained its Nu traf o l.com with the promo code explained for hair as strong as you are gosh darn it.

3 (3m 48s):
A few weeks ago. I talked to a doctor who is working different emergency rooms in New York City. He talked a bit about his day-to-day, but we mostly focused on the fact that he didn't have the proper personal protective equipment as disposal. He kept reusing the same n95 mask we've heard a lot from doctors during this crisis and rightly so but there are a lot of health care workers who aren't doctors who are still out there risking their lives every day and on today's Show you're going to hear from them directly. No interviews. No questions. Just a nurse a physician's assistant and a paramedic walking us through a day in their lives. The day was Friday April 10th.

3 (4m 29s):
My name is Katie. I'm a registered nurse and a Pediatric Intensive Care Unit in New York City. It's about six thirty five in the morning, and I am just arriving at work to start my day. Working as a critical care nurse in an ICU. We are used to seeing critically ill patients. However, I don't think anything could have really prepared us for what we are seeing now during this pandemic. Thankfully children have been largely spared from getting critically ill that said our Pediatric Intensive Care Unit has now been turned into an adult ICU.

3 (5m 11s):
That's kind of flipped our world upside down many of us don't even have adult ICU experience. And now we are treating some of the sickest patients I've ever seen and there are all adults. Patients are having to wait in the emergency room for ICU beds. And then once they are finally admitted to us they get so sick so quickly and you know, I've heard a lot of people say it's almost like falling off a cliff a lot of these patients present and they look like, you know, they're going to maybe do okay and then all of a sudden you have to rapidly intubate them they are requiring, you know, ventilators not just for a few days but for weeks at a time, and then the Everything that follows many of them go into kidney failure and multi-system organ failure.

3 (6m 9s):
I think the hardest part about this is when we go in to see a patient everything except our eyes are covered and even then we have a face shield on not one part of our skin is exposed and these patients are alone. And that is really the hardest part is that we are sometimes the last person that they see in this life. You know you want to hold their hand and you want to hug them and let them know that they are not alone and let their family know that you were there to provide that human touch. And that's one thing we can't do a lot of times the units are so busy because we have so many patients that is really hard to keep families updated as much as they should and it's just torture for them to sit at home and have to wait for a phone call.

3 (7m 3s):
you know and oftentimes it's once a day once a day a doctor will call an update them on their family member status and it's just painful to think about the number of people that are alone. Just yesterday. There was a patient that last week many of us thought would not survive. He is a young man, and he was one of the sickest patients that I had ever taken care of. And yesterday we were able to take the breathing tube out and he was able to look at us and talk to us and at that moment.

3 (7m 46s):
I think everybody in the entire room just broke down in tears and this poor young man looked at us. Not quite understanding what had just happened to him. But knowing that he made it through this gave us so much. Hope it's moments like that that really carry us through on that note. It's about 10 minutes before my shift starts. My name is Kira bhandari and I'm a physician assistant in the hematology Department. I'm actually in the parking structure right outside work right now one small blessing of working in the time of covid for anyone that has lived in LA or visit La.

3 (8m 31s):
You know, the traffic is really as bad as they say it is there has been no traffic since the start of the lockdown so my commute to and from work and I'm sure all of my colleagues would agree has been just fabulous. So that has been one small blessing. So I'm in the hematology department but one sector of that is Bone marrow transplant team patients are incredibly vulnerable after that procedure so vulnerable that we have actually decided to put off a lot of our transplants. There's just been so much concerned about what the covid look like here would we have enough blood product would we have enough platelet? We have the things that we need, you know, those patients can get really sick and yet I see you need ventilators. We've been wanting to save that for the potential covid surge here in LA.

3 (9m 13s):
And so the biggest change to my department has been sort of the negotiating. I of I mean literally life and death for some patients in deciding. Okay, if we put off this transplant for this leukemia patient another three months. Are we going to be able to keep that leukemia at Bay long enough to take them to transplant after this is all over and when will it all be over about two or three weeks ago at the hospital? We stopped allowing visitors of any kind, you know family. We had been making some exceptions for end-of-life and unfortunately in the last week or so, we've really had to really clamp it down at this point walking into the hospital. Little I'm going to have my temperature taken take a short survey. I'll get a little green sticker that says I'm allowed to be there in addition to my special badge, which says I'm allowed to even be on campus right now, especially in a Cancer Ward as you can imagine having family friends and visitors is super important, you know, some patients that are here you getting chemotherapy.

3 (10m 5s):
They might be in for an entire month getting chemotherapy and because of covid and because of the no visitors, they're not allowed to leave the room. They're not allowed to walk to the Garden the really not seeing any other people. One of the toughest cases was a young man a few weeks ago who had a very aggressive form of blood cancer and he was in his 20s and wasn't going to make it very long. He had a young child at home three or four months old and his wife and I don't think she really understood the extent of how sick he had gotten because she had not been able to see him during his hospitalization and we had to have a discussion with the palliative care team and the doctors and the nurses and his wife over FaceTime, you know, sort of holding the iPad up to him and Thing about his death essentially in this really strange sort of robotic way.

3 (10m 53s):
Meanwhile everyone who's in the room trying to connect with him and talk to him is wearing masks and some form of protective gear, you know conversations like that. They're not supposed to go that way. To be honest, I'm doing pretty well. I think it's kind of nice to have a purpose in this climate. My friends are a lot of them are at home working and I know they're struggling, you know, they want to help at least I get to see folks every day. I get to come in and take care of my patients and and know that I'm you know, I'm ready to be deployed to go do other things and That being said I'm a probably running late. So I'm going to run into work, but that's been my morning chicken.

3 (11m 41s):
My name is Chris route. I'm a paramedic in New York City is 3 o'clock on a Friday afternoon and I just arrived at the hospital to start a 16 hour shift. I'll be responding to 9 1 1 calls until 7 a.m. Tomorrow morning. You know on a typical day before the pandemic as a paramedic you can normally expect like a little bit of down time. Now. It's pretty much non-stop. It just takes so much longer to do every call because you get on scene and you have to put on all the pee pee and you have to get upstairs.

3 (12m 22s):
You have to assess the patient if to get to the hospital. You have to turn the patient over you have to take off all your peepee. If to clean the ambulance from top to bottom just everything is slower and more difficult now. I work in a neighborhood with a lot of old buildings a lot of walk-up apartments with no elevators and doing a five-floor walk-up with 50 pounds of equipment is not easy on a good day. And if the patient is unconscious or too ill to walk we have to then carry them back down five flights of stairs, but now doing all of that in PPE.

3 (13m 5s):
During an impermeable down and two pairs of gloves and goggles and an n95 mask. It's just brutal and you just feel so drained at the end of the shift over the past few weeks. I feel like I've seen the Acuity of what we're responding to change almost shift by shift just the patients are getting sicker every shift. On my last shift, I pronounce three people dead in three hours. The volume of deaths that were being exposed to on a daily basis is so much higher than anything we've seen before.

3 (13m 50s):
My family worries about me constantly. My girlfriend is scared when I leave for work. I text her throughout the shift so she knows I'm okay. I bought my own respirator a week ago so that I would have something in case our stockpiles ran out and she burst into tears when she saw me trying it on.

1 (14m 31s):
After the break and end of day

3 (14m 33s):
check-in from Katie Kira and

1 (14m 35s):
Chris.

3 (14m 53s):
Right now staying connected is more important than ever. So we can't hang out at our favorite neighborhood spots or say hi in person. But with the next door app, you can stay in touch with your community while staying safe indoors. Next door is the hub for everything happening in your neighborhood. And right now that means it's finding us opportunities to give and receive help the app is connecting elderly people with neighbors who can get groceries for them. It's a space for sharing safety tips. It's Even benefiting local businesses check out the next door app to stay up to date on which local restaurants cafes and shops are still in service. Next door is in every neighborhood in the US and people are already working together to build stronger safer and happier communities all over the world.

3 (15m 41s):
Best of all all the neighbors are next door or certified. So, you know, you're getting trustworthy updates find even more ways to stay connected on the next door app. So what are you waiting for? The app is free. Go to nextdoor.com explained to sign up and see what's happening in your neighborhood. Be sure to use the link from our show to sign up. So they know you support us nextdoor.com explained. Support for the show today comes from better help better help offers licensed professional counselors who want to help you whether you're just trying to cope with this moment whether you're struggling with stress anxiety isolation depression. They have people to make you feel less alone to get started use fill out a questionnaire to help assess your needs and then you get matched with a counselor in less than 24 hours.

3 (16m 28s):
After that. You can easily schedule secure video or phone sessions with your therapist. I wonder if you can meet them on house. Be let me know if you find out you can also exchange unlimited messages connect with your counselor in a safe and private online environment. Anything you share is confidential with better help. It's an affordable option and right now listeners of today explain get 10% off your first month with the discount code explained. So why not get started at better help.com explain that is better heelp.com. / explain.

3 (17m 11s):
My name is Katie. I'm a registered nurse in a Pediatric Intensive Care Unit in New York City. I am just sitting in my car getting ready to leave work. After what was a very busy, I guess now 13-hour shift. We're back with the stars of the show three healthcare workers and their own words Chris. He's a paramedic Kira a physician's assistant and Katie who's a nurse today in really get a lunch break most people. Get a lunch break. We have a little room in the center of our unit. And whenever you were able to have a moment, you just snuck in eat a granola bar. Drink some water did whatever you needed to do to get through these 13 hours.

3 (17m 52s):
Pretty much every patient on our unit is covid positive. All of them are requiring ventilators some patients need to be turned over onto their belly to help with their oxygen saturations. We've had many successes with sending patients to the floor after successful excavations. However, now one patient leaves and one more comes Needless to say, I'm utterly exhausted and I will be going back tomorrow. So it will be a few hours of sleep and then back again for another day.

3 (18m 34s):
Physically. It's really taxing taking care of these patients mentally you worried about Doing the very best you can for that patient, but then you start to worry. What if I get this what if this becomes me? What if it is becomes my parents or my husband or my brother or sister or what is this becomes my co-workers. We like to think that we're taking the best possible precautions however with reusing masks and with the virus spreading as easily and quickly as it does. It's a big question mark a lot of the times.

3 (19m 23s):
I worry about how this will change not only myself but my colleagues every single day. We are giving everything we have and I worry that some may burn out. I worry that some made decide they can't do this anymore. I worry that sometimes I may not be able to do this in the future because it is just so draining. Yet every day. We wake up and we go to work and we do the very best we can and we were all were all hanging on but sometimes it feels like we're hanging on by a string.

3 (20m 10s):
My name is Kira bhandari. I'm a physician assistant in the hematology Department. Basically, what what's been going on at least at this hospital here in Los Angeles is just a day-to-day switching of the rules and of the game plan and we still don't really know what's coming. I think that's been the strangest part. I mean, we had a meeting a few weeks ago when we were afraid we might have a shortage of PPE which right now we were okay, but again, we don't know we haven't even talked about purchasing motorcycle helmets. So at least we have Her face and head protection to protect both the patients and ourselves. So we really have trying to think outside the box and prepare for this the best that we can the rules of the game are changing every single day, you know one day it's where this kind of mask in this room and then throw it out in the next day.

3 (20m 54s):
It's wear this mask and wear it all day and don't take it off and don't get a new one and I'm so impressed and proud to be part of a medical team where you know, we just get our marching orders in the morning and we're all trying to do our best to sort of adapt and be flexible. All to respond to this pandemic the best way that we can without being too McCobb. I think something like this is exactly why I went into medicine and I'm sure I'm not alone in that it's not that you want bad things to happen. But you want to be the sort of person that can respond when they do and so I'm ready to help in any way I can and I'm really happy to be doing it and I just hope that I can stay healthy enough to keep doing that. I'm not scared myself getting sick. But you know, if even if we have an exposure it can wipe out the whole Workforce just last week one of our resident Physicians.

3 (21m 38s):
Had a positive covid test and it meant that all of us have to get tested and basically stay out of work for two or three days which one person doing. That is fine. But for five people doing that on a team is catastrophic as you can imagine, so I think that's what everyone is most worried about. It's about not necessarily us getting sick but us having an exposure that means that we can't come in to work and do the job that we need to do. My name is Chris route. I'm a paramedic in New York City. I've just got into my car after my double shift overnight.

3 (22m 23s):
It is about 8:15 in the morning. I've been at work for a little over 17 hours something that we're seeing a lot of you're seeing patients who are really far along into having significant heart attacks and strokes. Who waited at home with her symptoms for hours because they're afraid to go to the emergency room because the emergency room is full of patients with covid. I feel really really tired. It was supposed to get off at 7 a.m. But we got an assignment at 6:45 and an assignment typically takes about an hour minimum to turn around by the time you get to the scene and assess the patient and treat the patient and then turn them over in the emergency room.

3 (23m 9s):
So now it's an hour and 15 minutes after my service those supposed to end and I get to go home. First thing I do when I get home, I take my boots off outside. I walk directly to the laundry hamper take off my uniform. I don't touch my girlfriend or her dog until I've taken a long shower. I'm really looking forward to taking a shower right now after 17 hours at work. the pandemic Has definitely made me feel differently about being a paramedic.

3 (23m 50s):
I've never felt like the work was so important as it is right now, but I've also never been so scared. Being a paramedic. I've been in dangerous situations before with violent patients and on active crime scenes and things like that, but there's something that's so much scarier about this Invisible Threat waiting for you behind every door. Thanks to Katie Kira and Chris for making time to speak with Jillian Weinberger, and no I'm hasn't felt from The Today explained team and thanks for listening.

3 (25m 3s):
You're worried about the world right now. I'm worried about the world right now. We're all a little worried about the world right now. If you're struggling with anxiety loneliness or having trouble coping with it all you're not alone better help would like to help they offer licensed professional counselors who can help they connect you with your counselors in a safe and private online environment. And anything you share is confidential better help is Affordable and listeners of today explain get 10% off with your first month with the discount code explained go. Better help.com explained that is better heelp.com explained and talk to a therapist online. Better help.com explained that is better heelp.com explained and talk to a therapist online.