3 (1s):
So you're spending a lot more time at home lately. You know what that means. You've got a lot more time to brush your teeth and you know good health starts with good habits. So it's about time to get quip quip will send you a quick brush head toothpaste and floss refills on a dentist recommended schedule. Every three months for just five dollars. Each and shipping is free and if you go to get quip.com explained right now, you'll get your first refill free. That's your first we fill free at getpromofly.com. Get quipped.com explained spelled get Q UI p.com explained quick the good habits company.

3 (52s):
At 4:33 p.m. On Wednesday afternoon to astronauts are scheduled to launch from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida to the International Space Station. As of right now. We are go for launch today the head of NASA Jim bridenstine spoke from the Kennedy Space Center. This is a unique moment where all of them. America can take a moment and look at our country do something stunning again. And that is launch American astronauts on American Rockets from American soil. Even the president will be there.

2 (1m 21s):
I hope you're all gonna join me. I'd like to put you in the rocket and get ready for a while. Okay. Thank you very much.

3 (1m 28s):
President. Trump is planning to go because this launch is a pretty big deal.

2 (1m 32s):
I mean, I would say it's the biggest space news of the last

3 (1m 35s):
decade Lauren grush senior science reporter The Verge.

2 (1m 39s):
It's Important for two reasons one. This is the first time that we as the United States have launched people to orbit from American soil since the end of the space shuttle program the last space shuttle flight took place in 2011. And since then we have not had a way to put our own astronauts into orbit and the second reason is the ride that they're flying on. This is not a NASA vehicle. It's a SpaceX vehicle. It's a private vehicle. And so this will Mark the first time. That humans have launched to orbit on a private vehicle and not a government made

3 (2m 14s):
vehicle. Why is NASA even working with a private company like SpaceX to begin

2 (2m 19s):
with? Yeah. So for most of spaceflight History the government has been in charge of creating the vehicles that take humans to orbit. When Bush canceled the space shuttle, the idea was to go back to the Moon. They wanted to free up money so that they could do these bigger Bolder things in space. And so that's for the constellation program. We

3 (2m 45s):
will build a new ships to carry man forward into the universe. To gain a new foothold on the moon and prepare for new Journeys to the worlds beyond our own

2 (2m 59s):
when the Obama Administration came in they decided to cancel the constellation program saying it was too expensive. So they decided to amplify this new model for doing business where NASA would become a customer instead of the one building the rockets in the first place NASA decided. Okay, we're going to partially invest in these vehicles, but These companies are going to be in charge of the design and building it and of the operation

3 (3m 26s):
we will also accelerate the pace of Innovations as companies from Young startups to established leaders compete to design and build and launch new means of caring people and materials out of our atmosphere

2 (3m 38s):
NASA. Also wanted to help the commercial companies and say, okay, once you're done you can take these vehicles and you can actually use them to turn a profit. So potentially once this is over SpaceX can Sell tickets to private citizens and take tourists to orbit if they wanted

3 (3m 56s):
to. So NASA gets a chance to see if this whole working with private companies thing can really work. What's on the line for SpaceX? Well,

2 (4m 11s):
this is a huge deal for SpaceX because the reason that SpaceX was created was to put people on Mars. So launching humans has been part of their goal this entire time, but it's definitely been a long road to get here. I mean, they had quite a few explosions when they were trying to launch rocket. But eventually they got their technology to work. They had NASA invest in them. And then they were able to send cargo to the International Space Station through NASA. So now they've taken their cargo vehicle called the dragon and have upgraded it into what is known as the crew dragon and they've had to do a ton of testing for this program in order to convince NASA that it's time to put astronauts on these vehicles and then they've also Their fair share of hiccups to last year a test version of the crew Dragon exploded during a ground

3 (5m 6s):
test

2 (5m 12s):
not you know really sent shock waves through both the space community and NASA, but they were able to overcome those and now they're on the cusp of actually putting humans on these

3 (5m 25s):
vehicles. I hate to ask but But if a bad outcome does happen here, what kind of setback is that going to mean for NASA for

2 (5m 35s):
SpaceX? It's going to be a very tragic day for sure and it's something I don't really want to think about and it's going to create a lot of questions of whether or not this way of doing business was right or successful. I don't know if that means that NASA will stop pursuing these kinds of programs, but it certainly will. Be an existential question for a lot of people if that were to happen and it will be a really bad day.

3 (6m 6s):
Assuming this is successful though. I mean, I remember when the former Chief scientist at Nasa Ellen stofan came on our show maybe about a year ago. She was talking about how NASA can only really go as far as Public Funding can take

2 (6m 20s):
it NASA is actually about 0.4% of the US federal budget. So I do hear people sometimes saying ayo. Oh, I don't know if we can make it to Mars and 15 or 20 years. You're like we could go and five if we really tried, you know and spent the money.

3 (6m 37s):
So if this is successful could it mean that we might actually get to that original Mission of SpaceX where they're sending people to Mars or private citizens on a really expensive ticket to space.

2 (6m 49s):
I mean, I think this is obviously the crucial first step for that to happen whether or not you and I are going to be able to afford tickets to space. You know, that's still a Open question right now. It's still tens of millions of dollars to ride on one of these vehicles. So sure SpaceX has been able to bring the cost down but has it been able to bring the cost down in a way that makes it more accessible and is able to sustain a burgeoning market of space tourism. That's something that we're going to find out in the years

3 (7m 19s):
ahead and can SpaceX survive long enough to get to that point where they can start regularly sending people to space.

2 (7m 27s):
I think they're going to keep going No matter what, but let's remember that the reason that SpaceX was founded was to put people on Mars that that is what Elon Musk has been, you know saying from day one and I don't think a lot of people realize that SpaceX hasn't launched anybody yet. I think a lot of people underestimate just what it takes to send a human and not a robot in space. We have a lot of needs that need to be met. We need life support systems. We need no food to eat. We need a place to go to the bathroom. You know, there are a lot of things that need to be engineered to Keep Us Alive in space because we are just not meant to be there.

2 (8m 14s):
So I think once SpaceX finally has the the experience of what it takes to keep people alive in space that is going to be super valuable experience for them and inform the rest of their vehicle designs moving forward.

3 (8m 38s):
It's taken years for SpaceX to get to this point on the verge of sending their first crude rocket to space but they've gotten really good at a different type of launch and it's starting to clutter up the sky. I'm no I'm hassenfeld filling in for Sean Rama's firm. This is today.

1 (8m 54s):
Explain.

3 (9m 3s):
Are you getting tired of cycling through your friends to call them up and talk about how everything is always the same and nothing changes anymore are your friends getting tired to better help offers online licensed professional counselors who can help connect with your counselor in a safe and private online environment anything you share is confidential to get started simply fill out a questionnaire to help assess your needs and get matched with a counselor and less than 24 hours after that. You can easily schedule secure. Video or phone sessions with your therapist plus the exchange unlimited messages so much right now is uncertain and we don't know when we're going to be able to go back to so many things that make us feel normal, but with better help at least you'll be certain about having professional help to rely on when you want wherever you are better help is a truly affordable option and listeners get 10% off for the first month with the discount code explained.

3 (9m 53s):
So why not get started today go to better help.com explained that's better. Heelp.com I explained talk to a therapist online and get help. You probably have a pretty short commute these days which is all the more reason to make sure your morning routine is up to par quick delivers all the Oral Care Essentials. You need to brush and floss better and they'll send it right to you on a dentist recommended schedule of every three months. The quip electric toothbrush has timed Sonic vibrations with 30 second pulses to make sure you're brushing really well and they make a little one just for kids pair that up with quipped anti cavity toothpaste and all the ingredients keep actually need And none they don't quip also has an eco-friendly refillable floss with a dispenser.

3 (10m 42s):
You keep for life and expanding string that helps you clean in between you get all that quick brush head toothpaste and floss refills for just five bucks. Each and shipping is free join over 3 million happy customers and practice good Oral Care easily and affordably good health starts with good habits. Quit makes forming good habits simple, and if you go to get quipped.com explained right now, you'll get your first Phil free that's your first refill free at get quick.com explained spelled get Q UI p.com explained quick the good habits company.

3 (11m 27s):
Today is mine. Some months ago. I was talking to an astronomer Cliff Johnson who was telling me about this kind of extraordinary and concerning thing. He saw through the telescope. He was running observations on I was remotely observing from Chicago, but the telescope is in Chile with my colleague Clara. They were looking at the magellanic clouds. These are two very dim dwarf galaxies suddenly, you know in the webcam start seeing these kind of Street. These are objects start, you know slowly making their way across the frame.

3 (12m 7s):
It's like something out of like a UFO movie and he had never seen anything like it before and they just kept coming kind of like imagining looking at like the Pac-Man dots just kind of flying together in a line across the view one after another after another after another and eventually he determined there were 19 of these dots that work? Crossing over the telescope's view the entire time. We were taking the single exposure. They're crossing the screen. These objects are so bright that they create these white streaks through the image where it's Overexposed and this is essentially like imagining Nails on the chalkboard, you know, basically just like having these like laser streaks go right across and zap your data literally and then Cliffs colleague went to Twitter and poach the picture.

3 (13m 2s):
Of what they were seeing and just for our own I'm in

1 (13m 6s):
shock.

3 (13m 12s):
Brian Resnick senior science reporter at vaux. What are these dots? What are they their satellites and are these government satellites who's behind them? No, they're from SpaceX. They're called star length satellites. There are little satellites or small and there they orbit the Earth at a relatively low altitude compared to other satellites and they're meant to eventually one day beam down internet access to remote areas of the planet. Is that the Only way some places can get internet access like are there a lot of places that can't get online without satellites? Well, there is a really large need to expand internet access to rural places, like even in the United States.

3 (13m 57s):
Rural Broadband access is a huge issue really crucial point of inequities that there a lot of places that big cable companies. They just don't build out the infrastructure for good internet in rural places. And this is a problem that you know, the government has tried to address a lot of people are concerned about because of your cut off from the internet you're cut off from the economy. That's just not just the United States around the world to there's a lot of places that are just cut off from internet. How do we weigh this good of bringing internet to more remote places against these concerns from astronomers. So astronomers get the value of connectivity, but they're really afraid that like a not enough thought has been put into protecting their view of the sky SpaceX has the clearance to Launch 12,000 of these satellites and Space X wants to send even more potentially tens of thousands and they're not the only company that is seeking to send up these small satellites in low earth orbit.

3 (14m 55s):
Perhaps not very long from now the number of visible satellites in the sky might outnumber the number of

1 (15m 1s):
stars.

3 (15m 4s):
Just trying to receive this is like the tip of the iceberg what exists right now is not going to destroy astronomy. They're worried about this. Ation list future where anyone can send up any type of bright object into space and really face no consequences for that and they don't have to think about a the research impact that these objects are having and B also like what does it mean that we might be like permanently changing our view into the cosmos. So let's talk about the cost here. Is it just an aesthetic one that we are sort of going to be looking up at a sky that is a bit brighter and a bit Fuller than we're used to or is there something worse there?

3 (15m 48s):
And I don't want to say that like A Sky Full of Lights is fine. But what's the worst scenario here? The problem is that observatories. They're just like giant cameras. So they're they're opening up their apertures. They're collecting. Light and they're making images. So if you have these bright things that ruins the image like it literally looks like someone took like chalk or like an eraser and erase part of the image every like little bit you erase and an astronomy image is an enormity and increasingly so much of astronomy now is about like taking this big picture and looking for little tiny things that are changing so they're not looking at one star they're looking at all of them or as much as they can at one time.

3 (16m 32s):
In these very wide view astronomical images like if you have satellites everywhere. Well that ruins the image the fear is like this is just the beginning. So the fear is not Elon Musk forces astronomy. The fear is like this will continue unregulated and there are no protections for the night sky. Beyond the Clutter Beyond harming say astronomical images. Are there other problems that come from having more and more satellites in the sky, you know there have already been some examples of things that have been sent up that are have been intentionally bright. There is this group some years ago that sent up a satellite called the humanity star New Zealand's first satellite in space is a huge disco ball.

3 (17m 17s):
The glittering satellite put into orbit by rocket lab is not an invitation to party more a prompt to think a little deeper. About the role of humans on planet Earth and astronomers were not happy

2 (17m 27s):
about it calling the satellite an act of environmental vandalism and a New Zealand light pollution

3 (17m 33s):
project astronomers were like, wow, if you can send something up that's intentionally bright into space like what else could happen and like there's no International ban on Space advertising so you can imagine a scenario where some company sends up satellites into space and has them spell out like a favored brand of cola. Or something horrible. Could you imagine going to Utah going to like one of the darkest places in the world you go out there you do your trip. You'd start stargazing and then you see like overhead flash by like by Coca-Cola and there's nothing internationally at least to stop that from happening. Plus there's this whole other problem of space debris where if we just keep launching more and more things into space.

3 (18m 18s):
We have this potential to create space junk where satellites can go off. And they can break they can just float before they deorbit and crash back into our atmosphere and they can potentially create problems when they bump into other things. So, I mean, it seems like a pretty serious issue both from a research perspective from an aesthetic perspective from a safety perspective in space. I mean, what are astronomers or other stakeholders doing about it? You know, we're at the part of the movie where the scientists are like, this is a problem. We should be thinking about it and they're really just asking for international communities for companies like SpaceX to like think a little bit harder to their credit SpaceX is working with astronomy Community.

3 (19m 4s):
They're working with specific observatories. They're trying some experimental coatings on their satellites to darken them. But at the same time they keep sending up more and more of these satellites that are unaltered and they're going to keep doing it. So that's a part of the The two scientists are like hey, can we just like slow down a second and like figure this out before it's too late before like oh, you know, there's just too many up there. Yeah, you know it sort of reminds me of I guess, you know, I think about the ocean like forever people thought about it as just this infinite expanse you could dump things into it would go on forever and now we look up and there's you know Islands the size of Texas of plastic floating around everywhere and there were people decades ago saying don't dump plastic in the Ocean and only now are people taking it really really seriously and I wonder if what you're talking about this tip of the iceberg is sort of demonstrating that space or at least the space close to Earth is maybe less infinite than we think.

3 (20m 8s):
Yeah. I mean, it's definitely finite there's there's only so much space around the earth and our eyes are really sensitive and so are these observatories they can see the faintest light from light years and Light. Is away like light that predates all of human civilization for sure and like predates like a lot of Life on planet Earth that light that traveled here from the deepest reaches of the cosmos to be blocked by some little like plaything that some humans built, you know, it seems so deeply tragic to erase this light that has come to us over millions of years over tens of thousands of years over billions of years.

3 (20m 53s):
However long that light traveled to reach our telescopes and to just like erase it just seems

1 (20m 60s):
wrong.