1 (4s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. A few weeks ago, I went to Indiana and I met a lawyer who has been trying to overturn Roe V. Wade for most of his adult life. I don't mean that ideally like he doesn't appreciate Roe and he's gone to certain protests or voted for certain people. I mean, it literally, this man graduated from law school with row fresh in his mind, and he came up with a plan and he hit the stack.

2 (32s):
I would go to either the law school library or the Supreme court library at the state Capitol. And so I had to go find the books about the Supreme court, the history of the Supreme court, and particularly overturning precedent,

1 (47s):
Overturning precedent, not easy, but on today's show, we have the story of how his plan work.

3 (59s):
Dakota is a show, but how big ideas really work and where they might go wrong hosted by me, Neil Patel editor in chief of the verge. I interview CEOs, policymakers, tech, experts, and creators about how they make decisions and how those decisions affect our shared future for better or worse. Past episodes have covered everything from self-driving cars to crypto, to social media moderation. It's a thoughtful, critical conversation about business and technology that you will not hear anywhere else. Follow Dakota, wherever you find your podcasts, new episodes come out. Every Tuesday.

1 (1m 41s):
James Bopp runs a law firm in his hometown, Terre Haute, Indiana. It's a corner building. It's kind of easy to miss if you're keeping your head down because the wind chill is about minus 70.

5 (1m 53s):
No. While we went the wrong way, I think, yeah, that's nine.

1 (1m 58s):
We were there in March because we'd heard from a very well-informed law professor that Mr. Bob is perhaps the main reason that Roe vs. Wade was so imperiled. Is it true that you are the smartest man in Terre Haute?

2 (2m 11s):
No,

1 (2m 12s):
That's the rumor. Are you being modest?

2 (2m 14s):
No

1 (2m 15s):
Decades ago. Jim Bopp seized on a novel legal strategy with one goal undermine that 1973 decision. And well, here we are in 2022. Do you remember when you became aware of what abortion was, what it meant, what it involved?

2 (2m 34s):
Yes. Early on my dad was a doctor and he talked often to us about you do no harm and of course abortion kills the unborn baby. The other thing that was really kind of just accidental was in my room. There was a bookshelves above my head at very top shelf where all his medical books and I was interested in becoming a doctor like my dad and uncle and grandfather, but one of the books was the embryology textbook and it fascinated me. I was drawn to it.

1 (3m 13s):
The embryology textbook

2 (3m 15s):
Exactly the embryo and how it was developing for embryo two is I go

1 (3m 21s):
Zygote to embryo

2 (3m 23s):
And the stages of development and what the characteristics were. I mean, it was kind of a thick book, so it had a lot of stuff in it. But the thing that impressed me that's related to the abortion issue is there was no question that the unborn was a human life from conception. There was no debate about that. That was just simply a biological reality that doctors needed to know and would, would deal with. Right? And when you couple that with a physician do no harm, the abortion issue was taking of an individual living human being and that's what's at stake.

2 (4m 9s):
And that's what makes it wrong. Except in rare circumstances,

1 (4m 15s):
Jim is a conservative, he has always been conservative even back in the sixties, during which time he did not swing. Did you ever go through a rebellious phase as a teenager?

2 (4m 25s):
Well, yes, but it isn't the normal one. My rebellion was I was a conservative and a Republican whose teachers were liberal. My rebellion was organizing my high school for Barry Goldwater in 1964.

6 (4m 42s):
Barry Goldwater is calling for courage and integrity and meeting problems. He's calling for an end to do nothing policies for progress based on the dynamic principles of the Republic. He's calling for a rebirth of individual freedom.

7 (4m 57s):
I want to remind you that extremism and the defense of Liberty is no bias.

2 (5m 9s):
We created a group in my high school who were Republicans or believed in Goldwater and wanted to do things to advance his candidacy. When Barry Goldwater ran, he was running against the moderate slash liberal establishment that controlled and ran the Republican party. I mean, we were rebels. I mean, we were serious rebels Goldwater had to overcome incredible odds to get the Republican nomination

8 (5m 36s):
I'm facing that electoral vote board. So I can tell you by moving, by moving those electoral votes in Wisconsin, through the one column, according to a CVS vote profile analysis, Lyndon Baines Johnson has been elected president of the United States as electoral vote has gone over the 275th year by a single vote, 201. And the landslide has carried him in for his first term in office on his own, right by his own election.

1 (6m 5s):
Well, water lost the election by a lot. In fact, and Jim went away to college to become a doctor, but he did not Excel at science. So he went to law school instead, and

2 (6m 16s):
That was at the university of Florida in Gainesville. And on January 22nd, when the opinion was handed down, I was driving from the law school to my apartment. This is as distinct a memory as I have in my, in my life. It was noon. And on comes the noon news report. And it announced what happened with Robbie anyway. And I was just shocked and appalled and

9 (6m 48s):
All of state laws are broken specifically. The court today, overturned laws in Texas and Georgia and rule the government has no right to enter into a decision which should be made by the mother and her doctor during the second three months of pregnancy and rule the state may. Right.

2 (7m 3s):
I it's just like yesterday. And yeah, because I thought this was really important. I mean, I just don't think there's anything more important than government's responsibility to protect life.

1 (7m 17s):
After graduation. He went to work for the Indiana attorney general. Then he opened an office in downtown Indianapolis, where he says he went broke for a few years. And then he got involved in national right to life where there was this battle underway among people who were anti-abortion.

2 (7m 36s):
The battle was between incremental ism and absolute is absolute ism was we would be morally complicit in Roe V. Wade, if we accepted it as law. And therefore the only thing that we can ever propose or support is pre Roe V. Wade prohibitions on abortion period. The incrementalist understood. I mean, you got to learn what fights to fight and what Hills to die on. Right? No one has ever confused me with the Don Quixote, right?

2 (8m 18s):
So the reality is the pronouncements of the Supreme court are the law of the land and will be followed by all judges. And so you have to accept that and work within it. That is not a hill to fight on soulish. They wanted to fight on that hill. And what that would have meant was if the only laws we would ever support are complete prohibitions on abortion, few of those would pass if any, none of them would ever survive the most modest court challenge. And what was threatened that approach was that the abortion issue would be taken off the public agenda.

2 (9m 2s):
Okay. So there would be no prospect of anything about Roe V Wade ever happening.

1 (9m 13s):
It's sort of like Roe versus Wade, that decision exists, but we're not going to wave a magician's wand and make it disappear. So we have to like drill little holes in it where we can.

2 (9m 24s):
And, and that is of course the traditional strategy that has been employed by people who wanted to overturn precedent is that they understood that to overturn a precedent. It requires a series of cases where the precedent is undermined.

1 (9m 45s):
The big thing in your mind is to get these individual cases to the Supreme court.

2 (9m 50s):
You're

1 (9m 51s):
Smiling.

2 (9m 53s):
If they don't take up a case, they can't be asked to or consider overturning the precedent. And if they uphold the law without overturning the precedent, we now have a law that is likely to save lives.

1 (10m 11s):
What did you get the idea for this chipping away at Roe strategy

2 (10m 15s):
Of the NACP

1 (10m 17s):
Plus you've worked

2 (10m 18s):
Exactly Presley versus Ferguson to leading to brown vs. Board of education.

1 (10m 23s):
Explain the whole thing. Oh

2 (10m 24s):
My goodness. It is. I mean, when I got involved with national right to life, one of my first tasks was to develop a strategy to overturn Roe V Wade. I mean, and to implement that strategy. And so I read all about the NACP strategy because it, it, you know, it has been well covered. It was very conscious. I mean, Thurgood Marshall put it together and implemented it.

10 (10m 54s):
The president should have shortly after the decision, or at least by now have gotten on a television network or radio and spoken as the chief executive of this government to the good people of the south, urging them to support the decision of the Supreme court is the law of the land, whether they believed in it or not

2 (11m 17s):
All the elements of what you could see in prior cases. Other instances where precedent had been overturned, all the elements that the NACP recognized had occurred in all these cases and then implemented successfully where all there

1 (11m 36s):
They're identifying individual cases, the NAACP they're saying, if we get this in front of the Supreme court, the Supreme court could make a decision on this particular case that would overturn Plessy versus Ferguson. And they keep doing that

2 (11m 50s):
And they keep doing that, but they do it even in a more sophisticated way. They were dealing with Plessy versus Ferguson and the doctrine was separate but equal. And they said, well, we've got to undermine you. Remember the words undermined, because what you need to do is undermine the precedent by getting the courts to question it, explain it or change it's the doctrine, distinguish it until they're finally ready to jettison it by overruling it. So they started with a medical school,

1 (12m 24s):
Quick correction. It was a law school. The rest of this story is accurate.

2 (12m 28s):
And the reality of a separate school for blacks that would be equal to the white is preposterous. Okay? And of course didn't exist in the real world. And of course said, no, the black school is not equal. Right? And they struck it down. And then they just kept working their way down. Okay. Until they got to the Topeka, Kansas elementary school

11 (12m 54s):
Ruling, and five cases in which five Negro children sought the right to go to the same schools as white children, the card said separate educational facilities are inherently unequal.

1 (13m 8s):
So this was now the incrementalist strategy bring abortion case after abortion case before the Supreme court that the court has to rule on and try to undermine the precedent of RO.

2 (13m 21s):
I set out to advance the conservative cost to make it a majority, not to live in the minority. What was a fringe idea, which was conservative ideas, you know, is become a mainstream. That's huge.

12 (13m 56s):
What do you think about when you hear the word philosophy, Maybe nothing at all, which is totally fine. Or maybe it makes you think of a stuffy seminar room or marble bust of dead Greek guys or giant books written a long time ago with little to say about your life. But philosophy is meant to be accessible to everyone at its best. It speaks to issues. We all face every day in the here and now Box conversations has a new monthly series called the philosophers. Each episode focuses on the ideas of a philosopher or school of thought from the past and explains why they still matter.

12 (14m 40s):
Today. I talk with some really smart professors, but this is not a college course. We're talking about things that are relevant and vital. And we're interested in ideas that the world around us check out our episode on how <inaudible> can help us understand the war in Ukraine or our newest episode on how Hannah rent describes the political dangers of loneliness. Listen to the philosophers with me, show nailing every month, right? In the Vox conversations, feed,

14 (15m 16s):
Check out these courts. Showpad made that sound famous in his funeral March, but it's actually the same chords that are found in Nirvana's song, something in the way This 180 year old ominous chord progression resonates with Cobain's melancholy lyrics. And the sound is connecting with listeners still today. Something in the way climbed billboards hot 100 and March, 2022 marketing. The fifth time Nirvana has been on the chart just like today. Explain breaks down the days. Latest stories switched on pop does the same for today's songs because it's not just Nirvana.

14 (15m 60s):
That's having a resurgence. The angsty sounds of nineties alternative music has made a comeback. The genres anti-corporate perspective, which developed out of the excesses of the eighties is a fitting backdrop to contemporary activists attitudes. This genre is back, but it's taken on a new sound with new faces. The second time around subscribe to switched on pop and discover the new alternative I'm cohost songwriter. Charlie Harding find switched on pop anywhere you get podcasts

1 (16m 34s):
Back with today explained, okay. So Jim Bob started applying the incrementalist strategy. He brought case after case after case. He assisted with lawsuits in Ohio, in Missouri, in Massachusetts. The point was to undermine Roe bit by bit until the justices were ready to overturn it. And then in 1992 came a big one. The case was called planned parenthood versus Casey.

15 (17m 1s):
The Supreme court heard arguments on the constitutionality of Pennsylvania's abortion law. Today. The law is considered one of the strictest in the nation. It requires a married woman to notify her husband.

2 (17m 13s):
This could be the combination of our strategy. We may have the votes for them to actually overturn

15 (17m 20s):
The case is considered the most direct challenge to date of the Supreme court in 1973, Roe vs. Wade decision, which legalized abortion.

1 (17m 29s):
The state of Pennsylvania had tried to add a few restrictions to abortion, not to make it illegal per se, but to make it harder in a few ways to chip away at it. Now, this was an incrementalist dream situation, not to mention eight out of the nine justices on the court had been appointed by Republicans. The restrictions at issue, whereas follows

2 (17m 56s):
Parental notice.

1 (17m 57s):
If a kid under 18 wants to get an abortion, the doctor has to inform the parents

2 (18m 2s):
Informed consent waiting. Period.

1 (18m 6s):
If you want an abortion, you have to sit through informational presentations and then wait a certain amount of time before the procedure

2 (18m 13s):
Spousal notice

1 (18m 14s):
If a married woman wants to get an abortion, she asked to inform her spouse. And then what the Hey happened.

16 (18m 23s):
Our obligation is to define the Liberty of all, not to mandate on moral code.

2 (18m 29s):
I was in the Corps. I'm sitting where the lawyer sit right in front of the justices,

1 (18m 35s):
Presumably suit and tie. Well,

2 (18m 36s):
Yeah, Black socks, as opposed to by normal white socks.

16 (18m 42s):
After considering the constitutional questions decided and RO principles underlying the institutional integrity of this court and the rule of staring decisis, we will affirm the constitutionally protected Liberty of the woman to decide to have an abortion before the fetus attains viability.

2 (19m 2s):
Instead of winning, we lost five to four.

1 (19m 7s):
What went through your head?

2 (19m 8s):
I was Very disappointed, tragically disappointed, and the three justices that we didn't get that we had hoped to get. We didn't get for different reasons, right? But they joined together and one opinion where they did two things, they reaffirmed that the right to abortion is fundamental, but they also changed Roe V. Wade, okay. To make reasonable regulations on abortion, much easier to uphold. It was definitely not a total loss as I'm walking out. And then I'm immediately thinking, okay, the court has given us obviously, a new analysis that will allow for more extensive regulation on abortion.

2 (19m 56s):
And that's what we got to turn our mind to.

1 (19m 59s):
I don't want to put thoughts in your head, but had I been you? I think the thing going through my head at that moment would have been, this is not a total loss. And also I would really like to change the composition of that court.

2 (20m 13s):
Well, we've always known that the constitution of the court is a critical element in this. I mean, let's be real here. I was born at night, but not last night. Okay. And so I understand that justices are human. I understand that they change over time. They're affected by their life experiences. They're affected by their context in which they're living and making decisions. I'm an optimistic person. I've always understood. Politics is a process, not an event and that we were in it for the long haul. And I, and that we believed we had a strategy that could ultimately succeed,

1 (20m 55s):
But only if they had sympathetic judges, there were four Reagan appointees on the court in that Casey decision. And they'd let row stand. So Republican presidents would have to nominate a specific kind of judge

17 (21m 9s):
Leonard. Leo is executive vice president of the Federalist society, which advances the cause of limited constitutional government.

1 (21m 17s):
The Federalist society started on college campuses. It was kind of a club for very conservative young people. That group created a pipeline that went from law schools to clerkships, to the federal bench.

17 (21m 28s):
He organized conservative support for Clarence Thomas and John Roberts and the Sam Malita. But as role increased dramatically, when candidate Trump asked him to draw up a list of potential nominees

1 (21m 42s):
And it's worth noting here, Jim Bopp insists the Federalist society is not that big a deal. I really wasn't under the impression that when the federal society quote, unquote, endorsed a judge, that judge was understood to be somebody who would vote to overturn Roe vs. Wade. And you're saying, there's no guarantee of that.

2 (21m 60s):
I've been in illusion of the Federalist society. I mean, I met him inside of this and that's not the case. We do not ask those questions of a prospective nominee. You know, like even the question, what do you think about Roe V Wade? We would never ask the question. Would you vote to overturn that that would be totally unethical. It would be wrong for us to ask Ron for the judge to answer. I don't know what the liberals do, but I know that that's what we do. Any lawyer that would tell you that judges don't matter, then you have a full for a lawyer and you ought to change lawyers.

2 (22m 44s):
Okay. Because judges do matter because they're human beings. And so there's no question that the fight over judges is understandable, particularly when you have judges like liberal ones that vote based upon their policy views, not what the constitution provides in my opinion now. Okay. So judges matter. I want somebody that'll fatefully interpret the constitution based upon its meaning. At the time it was adopted. Liberals want somebody that will re-interpret that language based on, you know, society's current needs. And, and, and that's a problem

1 (23m 32s):
After the Supreme court draft opinion on row leak. I called Jim Bob, Mr. Bob, hello. Can you hear me? He's been working a case in Richmond. It's been decades. Do you feel vindicated today?

18 (23m 51s):
Not yet. Not until we get a majority opinion. Overturning Roe V. Wade. I mean, you know, we got so close in 1992.

1 (24m 5s):
Do you take credit for where we are today? Tit and I don't mean today in the broad sense. I mean, today, right now this afternoon,

18 (24m 14s):
The only thing I would take credit of is being persistent. And, and my motto always has been, you don't lose until you give up everything else is just a temporary setback or maybe a temporary dance, whatever. And you, you don't lose them to give up. So the way it is. And so I've never given up and I'm not going to give up. And I, you know, I, I can say I I've done that cause I've been persistent and maybe, and, and I just hope one of these days, you know, there's the all not true.

1 (25m 8s):
Jillian Weinberger, co reported and produced today's episode, Matthew collect and Catherine Welles edited it. A FIM Shapiro engineered it. And Laura Bullard and Tori Domingas fact checked it. I want to shout out law professor Mary Ziegler. She was in fact, the person who brought Mr. Pop to our attention. She's the author of a terrific book called dollars for life, the anti-abortion movement and the fall of the Republican establishment. I read it on the plane on the way to Indiana. And Hey, here's a thought it is a Cray new cycle. And we want to know what you would like. Explain whether it's about Roe vs Wade, or about abortion more broadly, or about where this country is headed on this issue.

1 (25m 54s):
We have a hotline, Sean monitors it. If you want to leave us a message, please do call us at (202) 688-5944. I'm Noel king. And this is today explained.