2 (18s):
Just a week ago. I was in an area called neuroma, which is on the New South Wales South Coast. It was on one of the days when the Bushfire conditions were really bad and people were basically preparing for the worst. That been this incredible community meeting the night before we're a volunteer rural firefighters sat on the back of a truck with his community all around him and he basically stepped them through exactly what they need to do. It was almost like a scene from a movie where this firefighter was sort of preparing his troops for battle almost now the next day the sky was basically blood orange visibility was quite bad and all of a sudden this southerly wind that everyone had been expected kid.

2 (1m 15s):
It started getting darker and then all of a sudden the power went out and it was Pitch Black and the Ash and these fires were burning just to the south of us had literally turned day into night. And as we looked up with torches, you could just see the ash falling from the sky in huge chunks. It covered absolutely everything. It started raining at points because this Bushfire system had created its own weather system above us, but it was raining Ash and so it was Is really unsettling and unlike anything I've ever experienced.

2 (1m 55s):
Jonathan hair has been covering Australia's unprecedented Fire season for the Australian Broadcasting Corporation their ABC something like 15 million Acres have burned thus far. That's roughly the size of West Virginia. I guess if you look at New South Wales at the moment the burnt-out areas, it's hard to find on the coast an area that hasn't been burnt out. So on the map that authorities put out to talk about where these fires are burning and where the front's are areas that have He beamed Ian Todd are in black and the whole map of New South Wales. For example is just covered in black massive massive areas of land. And the other thing about these fires is they're so big and so large and burning so intensely that you can't actually put them out.

2 (2m 42s):
The best authorities can do is sort of builds containment lines around it and hope for a favorable wind that pushes the fire back onto itself, which will put it out because there's nothing left to burn how many people have died at this point. In New South Wales, it's more than 20. I believe the total number nationally is pushing 30, but damage assessment crews are still going through areas and finding bodies. They're finding burnt our properties and things like that. So it talks to just how quickly these fires are moved through areas and people just didn't have a chance to get out and we're finding a lot of those people that have died have died on the roads have died in their cars as they've tried to flee some of these areas being impacted.

2 (3m 23s):
Hmm. So in addition to this being the hottest year on record in Australia what's made these fires? So Unstoppable one of the biggest problems that authorities have talked about is the fact that Australia has been in a drought for a while now, so all of the fuel loads which is what they call them which is basically leaves and trees and branches that have fallen from the trees onto the ground are incredibly dry. And all it takes is a little spark and they just take off into a massive fire. Or so it just means these fires can take off and race off quite quickly firefighters have talked about this year, seeing fire behavior that they've never seen before for example, these fires are burning through areas that are considered rainforest.

2 (4m 8s):
Even those are dry at the moment. So they're being burned through as we speak. There's a lot of things people don't expect about fires. And one thing I will say is fires are incredibly scary. They're these huge fire fronts it just whip up in the window move so quickly catch people unawares But I guess some of the onions unexpected things I think was sent from this Bushfire season has want to spend the smoke which is just blanketed huge areas including Sydney. For example choking. The are people with allergies have really struggled with that as well. Like people with asthma have really struggled with that. I don't think people really expected that to hang around for so long. Another thing. I don't think they expected was the impact.

2 (4m 49s):
This will have on things like tourism people are seeing these images coming out of Australia and going Well, I don't know if I want to visit there right now. What's the political response been? Well, the political response has been interesting. The Prime Minister Scott Morrison has been getting slammed essentially by a lot of people about his response to this Bushfire crisis. Just two weeks ago Morrison apologized for being on vacation in Hawaii with his family while his country burn. I've obviously return from leave and I know that that is caused some great anxiety in Australia and Jenny and I acknowledge that and then his Come home, and he's received quite a frosty reception from a lot of locals in these areas that have been affected by Bushfire.

1 (5m 37s):
Hearts of gold mr. Prime minister now, you need it like you

2 (5m 41s):
really are we getting any bites to anybody who's seen images of firefighters refusing to shake his hand now, he has been somewhat on the back foot. He announced that the military would be going into these areas to help his announced a two billion dollar Disaster Relief Fund to Try and help these Bushfire affected areas. So he's been doing a lot of press conferences and media since to try and look like he's been doing something. Well, I'm not surprised people are feeling very warm at the moment. And that's why I came today to be here to see it for myself to offer what Comfort I could and there is still, you know, some very dangerous days ahead and we understand that and that's why we're going to do everything we can to ensure they have every every support they will need but then there's also been this separate argument around people wanting more more action on climate change.

2 (6m 38s):
There's been huge protests in the streets in recent days thousands and thousands of people turning out in the capital cities to demand act more action on climate

1 (6m 48s):
change. I'm concerned about the coal and the more coal we burn the heart of the earth will be ready People In This Crowd are pointing to a government commission, which Years ago warned if the Australian government didn't do something to radically reduce its greenhouse gas emissions that the country would experience catastrophic

2 (7m 15s):
fires many now believe that is a prophecy that has come

1 (7m 19s):
true. Are you absolutely sure that this is climate change cause yes, I'm absolutely certain. The science is telling us this it's telling us that these extreme heat conditions. We've seen this

2 (7m 33s):
year might occur naturally once every 365. 50 years, but once you add the influence of the human emitted greenhouse gases, we're likely to see those conditions once every eight years. And of course that number will decline it will become more frequent as the buildup of gases continues

1 (7m 50s):
given the efforts that are the nation's I'm making to reduce their carbon emissions. How can Australia justify opening new coal

2 (7m 59s):
mines because we've got the best mining industry in the

1 (8m 1s):
world. Did I understands how to do this job properly Australia is doing its bit. But Australians not going to write a blank check with its own economy.

2 (8m 14s):
The government says that they're meeting their current targets and they're doing enough. Do you feel like there's still a question as to whether these fires are connected to climate change in Australia, or do you feel like everyone's pretty much on the same page the issue of climate change in Australia still continues to be incredibly polarizing. There are people saying that there is nothing else this could be and then there are people on the other side saying Australia has always had Bush fire seasons and that this is just a particularly bad Bushfire

1 (8m 43s):
season first the Tabloid conspiracy that's taken off like wildfire that it's all the work of arsonists even activist arsonists. The only problem with that there's always been arson in Australia. They've never been fires like

2 (8m 57s):
these and I guess an unprecedented Bushfire season hasn't really changed the political discussion around this. At all just thinking about the scale of this 15 million Acres thousands of homes dozens dead. I mean is that surprising to you that it hasn't changed the political discussion? Not really I guess because it always has been like this, but I guess it has been interesting seeing the response by the International Community. Obviously the size of these bushfires has been front page news for a few weeks now and a few other countries around the world have been sort of Guest surprised that it is a topic that is still polarizing.

2 (9m 39s):
And in the meantime its peak summer in Australia and these fires are still not over the yeah, it's we're still in the middle of summer here. We still have many months of dry hot weather and what they really need here is a lot of rain and they needed to be quite heavy and in certain areas and unfortunately, there's none of that predicted on the horizon in the short term at least so these bushfires could continue on for many months now before we see any kind of Brave

1 (10m 14s):
we can't pretend that this is something we've experienced before it's not because the weather activity we're seeing the extent and spread of the fires speed at which they're going the way in which they're attacking communities who have never ever seen fire before is unprecedented thousands of people remain stranded on beaches figuring the water may be their only Escape here in New South Wales more than 50 fires are still out of control and fire danger is gone up to severe and extreme today on account of rising temperatures.

2 (10m 58s):
Beyond the millions of Acres burned the dozens of people who have died. Australia has lost something like a billion animals. I'm Shawn Rama's from that's in a minute on today explained. Hey everyone, so I know you know all about Vox podcast because I talk about him all the time you listen to one right now. I know you know about boxes Netflix show explain but Vox is also just getting into the regular like narrative TV game right now.

2 (11m 42s):
You can find a show called Little America on Apple TV plus only in America Dia odd tax after you see the ticket Place only in America can such a perfect game exist Face Forward hamburgers He's progressed bacon. Chili cheeseburger everything on top of everything only in America. Well America comes from the people who brought you the big sick and master of none. It tells 8 extraordinary true stories of immigrants coming to America people from Syria. Uganda Mexico Nigeria.

2 (12m 23s):
These stories are funny romantic their heartfelt and inspiring and who couldn't use a little bit of that right now Little America is live. Now, you can find it on the Apple TV app or go straight to tv.com All.com the show is called Little America 8 episodes check them out now. Hey, it is Ezra Klein. And I want to tell you about an exciting Episode VII has reclined show you can listen to now and episode literally years in the making it is a special excerpt of my new book. Why were polarized which is coming out on Tuesday, January 28th, the book explores the structural and psychological Dimensions behind the way American politics has changed and polarized what it has done to our institutions, but importantly what it is doing to us.

2 (13m 11s):
So I hope you enjoy it and you can listen to it by subscribing to the Ezra Klein show right now for free in your favorite podcast app it to hear a special excerpt from the

1 (13m 26s):
Some of these fires are burning so intensely that after the fire's gone through what you're left with is kind of like a moonscape. There's nothing left in the ground. It's like a suit layer and then there's just sticks of what used to be trees, but they're just black toothpicks sticking up from the ground everything from the top of the canopy down. The soil layer is gone. My name is Professor Sarah Lake. I'm with the Australian National University. But I live in Northern New South Wales. Our area was one of the first regions to go up in flames in November.

1 (14m 9s):
Among the worst of the fires, of course here in Australia is in New South Wales and the focus is very much as well on these three huge fires, which officials fear could merge into a mega Blaze across New South Wales and Victoria border, you know, it's worth noting that a lot of Australian habitats of fire adapted so far does occur and reoccur in those habitats at some frequency, but these fires are different their enormous. They're affecting heaps and heaps. Varies and habitat all at the same time and they're leaving nothing in their wake. One of the biggest concerns Wildlife caught in the fires path images of residents saving koalas going viral, very thirsty poor little thing.

1 (14m 56s):
Has anyone got any more hate. So thirsty

2 (14m 60s):
just on Kangaroo Island alone off the coast of South Australia half of the koala population. We think has been killed and there the species that are easy to count. They've broken through the fence here trying to get through and look at this is just that's just Irving and Really really disturbing lack of I've gone ice and I'll stay away from the gun now, he just leave it on the side of the ride everywhere

1 (15m 24s):
heartbreaking unimaginably. I drool sorry. It's quite emotional.

2 (15m 39s):
I guess this is where we get to this number that it's almost hard to wrap your head around but that that a billion animals have been lost in these most recent fires in Australia. Is that number accurate?

1 (15m 52s):
It's a ballpark number, but it's based on estimates of the density of mammals birds and reptiles in those environments. So it's in the right kind of area in terms of scale of impact because there's no food. I mean if you've seen pictures of these Landscapes, there are just nuked. Nothing left. So even if individual animals escaped the fire escape being burnt directly. There are likely to die in the coming weeks and months

2 (16m 21s):
who's gonna die. What kind of animals are dying here? I

1 (16m 23s):
mean the species that people are seeing I guess on the media would probably mostly be koalas maybe possums maybe kangaroos, but there's lots of other animals living in those forests right down to you know, very small marsupial so to give you an example There's a little carnivorous marsupial called The Kangaroo Island dunnart. It's kind of the size of a mouse. It lives on an island called Kangaroo Island. Now, this done art its entire global distribution is restricted to the national park on that island and its entire habitats gone up in Flames. I mean, there's many many more things like silver tailed antechinus that's again another small marsupial carnivore things like the long-footed potoroo.

1 (17m 9s):
It's kind of a mini kangaroo that lives in the forests of East gippsland and Victoria very large proportion of its habitats gone up in Flames. There's also birds like the Kangaroo Island glossy black cockatoo people often think that birds Escape fires because they can fly but the smoke and the Heat and the lack of visibility creates a lot of confusion, I guess and so it's not unusual to come across big mobs of bird corpses after the fire event. Not far from where the fire occurred and a large proportion of Australia's animals are endemic. So that means they're found in Australia and nowhere else in the world. So, you know, if the populations here experience declines and in some cases populations and species are going to be brought to the brink of Extinction by this event.

1 (17m 59s):
Then those declines are basically a global decline. So they're not just relevant to Australia. There were relevant to the whole world

2 (18m 6s):
and I mean just thinking about the last or potential loss. Of a billion animals. When was the last time something like that happened on this planet?

1 (18m 18s):
Oh, well, gosh, I don't know. I mean, you know the other big fire events that have happened in the last 10 or so years in California and Siberia have been monstrous but much smaller in scale. Actually than this fire event in Australia. So in terms of this an immediate impact on animal lives I don't know what you would compare it to but as shocking as that statistic is probably the bigger Longer lasting impact is going to be what it does to species declines and the ability of species to hang on. So, it's the extinctions that were actually more worried about

2 (18m 56s):
correct me if I'm wrong, but it sounds like you cannot think of an event like this in our history. In our recorded history, is that what you were saying?

1 (19m 8s):
Well, I can't maybe others can but and the other scary thing about this is this event occurred was an average of one degree of warming globally. And unless we get serious about climate change. We're looking at three to four degrees of warming. I can't even imagine what Australia is going to look like with 3 to 4 degrees of warming if this is what happens with one degree of warming, it's a terrifying

2 (19m 31s):
future. Yeah, I mean as someone who's spent her life studying these species and spending time in their habitat. Can I ask you how it's been these past few months watching these ecosystems

1 (19m 48s):
Burn? Yeah, you're right. I've spent my lifetime working in conservation and feels like all of those efforts where you just inching forward all the time. You're trying to make a positive difference just got wiped out in the space of a few weeks. So That's thoroughly depressing and I guess it the anger comes from we all knew this was going to happen. It's not exactly a surprise and scientists have been wanting governments of the the impacts for not addressing climate change, which is the ultimate driver here for a long time and the policy and action particularly in our country in Australia isn't incredibly frustrating and it's hard not to be angry about it.

1 (20m 31s):
Do you feel as an ecologist? Just

2 (20m 33s):
like partly responsible for speaking for these

1 (20m 36s):
animals. Look, I guess I feel responsible for trying to assemble all the evidence that we can about what's getting impacted and how and what can be done about it. But I guess ultimately I think the broader society makes decisions about what you do with that information.

2 (20m 55s):
And after this experience, what do you think is the most pertinent piece of information that you want out there in the world

1 (21m 1s):
that I guess we're not the only Species living on this planet. We do have a responsibility not to wreck the place because of our myopia and I really hope that this event will Galvanize a change in Attitude across the world to just take more responsibility for what we're doing on the planet. Take more care of it.