1 (1s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. A brother and sister were pulled out of a collapsed building in northwest Syria yesterday. The girl who looks to be about six or seven had reportedly said to a rescue worker, get me out of here, I'll do anything for you. And that rescue worker delivered. In fact, the girl's whole family survived the death toll from that 7.8 magnitude earthquake, and its aftershocks that hit Turkey in Syria has risen to 11,600, and that number is being updated every few hours. Turkey's president t Erdogan declared a three month state of emergency saying he believes Turkish people will exhibit patience.

1 (41s):
But after all this, it's unclear how much patience they have. Meanwhile, in northwest Syria, there's little government to even speak of. Up next two reporters join us from the region to tell us what they're seeing.

2 (1m 4s):
Yes, my name is Pki and I'm the economist, Turkey correspondent.

1 (1m 9s):
Where are you right now? Piote.

2 (1m 12s):
I'm on the outskirts of Uck, which is a city of about 400,000 people in southern Turkey, close to the Mediterranean coast.

1 (1m 23s):
Pio Tosky sounded almost stunned by what he'd seen in Anta when we talked. It was Tuesday evening there, and he'd returned to the outskirts of that city.

2 (1m 34s):
They've just come out of the city center where the situation is quite grim. I mean, it's quite grim on the outskirts as well. I don't have the official numbers or exact numbers, but I can tell you that it seems as if every other building in the city, or at least in the city center, has been completely destroyed. There are other buildings that are leaning to one side or another and looked to be on the verge of collapsing, which is one reason why no one wants to go back into his or her house. Some people are camping out outdoors. There are, and cities sprouting up all over the local parks.

2 (2m 16s):
Some people will be sleeping in their cars, but the devastation is quite extreme. And the rescue workers here are, are overwhelmed and overstretched.

1 (2m 28s):
What's the weather like?

2 (2m 30s):
It's not freezing, but it's getting quite cold. It's cloudy. There's also cloud of smoke over the city, and that's a cloud of smoke from East Canon, which is another town about hour away from here and there we were driving by and we saw a port that was being consumed by fire, and it's the smoke from that fire that's spreading over the neighboring mountains and over anta itself. But inside the city, the scenes are quite apocalyptic. People are being pulled from the rubble.

2 (3m 11s):
But by people I unfortunately mean corpses mostly. There are some survivors. There are some miracles, but the situation for the most part is quite hopeless. So much so that you know, you have bodies wrapped in blankets or rugs lining the main thoroughfare, and those are corpses being weighed, you know, waiting to, to be picked up by, by emergency crews. And they're also wounded people in the streets waiting for ambulances, as you can hear, probably in the background. Yeah, there are quite a few ambulances here.

2 (3m 53s):
A military helicopters as well. President Erdogan, the turkeys president, declared a state of emergency in the 10 provinces most affected by the earthquake. So obviously military starting to pour in. It's been now almost two days, I guess 36 hours or so since the quake. And so any hope of finding survivors is quickly diminishing also, because there simply isn't, you know, enough equipment and enough manpower to cope with, with the scale of the disaster,

1 (4m 33s):
I imagine people are in shock. What are people saying to you? What are they telling you?

2 (4m 39s):
Well, you know, I mean, you have people who are obviously undergoing severe anguish. Everyone has a relative, you know, seems to have a relative, they can't get ahold of, you know, social media in Turkey is full of tweets and the like by people in Anta and places like Anta who are trapped in rubble asking for help. And there's a sense of, you know, frustration exasperation because folks are realizing that the rescue workers simply will not get to more than a fraction of the people who are trapped under the rubble.

1 (5m 18s):
Can you tell me why was this earthquake so deadly? This is a part of the world that is frequently hit by earthquakes, and I might imagine that there would be preparations for this kind of thing, but you're saying in, in, in Anta, it looks to you like every second building has collapsed. What's going on? Piore

2 (5m 37s):
In one reason is obviously the fact that Anta <unk> top a fault line that stretches for hundreds of kilometers to the east. And the devastation along that fault line along that 500 kilometer belt is, is extreme. And it's also extreme south of that belt in northern Syria. And there obviously the humanitarian situation is even more dramatic because access for rescue workers is much more restricted. So the scale of these earthquakes also explains the extent, the damage, at least somewhat.

2 (6m 19s):
But what also explains the extent of the damage is the quantity of the housing here. Hmm. A lot of the houses that have collapsed promptly, vast majority are houses that were built in the eighties, in nineties, and that were built in plain, you know, disregard building codes that were not adequately earthquake proofed. And you know, the Erdogan government has actually done sort of a half decent job of earthquake proofing houses across Turkey. They claim to have renewed some 3 million or more than 3 million housing units, but that's only a fraction of the total housing stock.

2 (7m 7s):
And what has made things worse actually is a decision by this government to offer, it's called building amnesty to people who, or developers, eh, who built illegally over the past few years. And clearly this government will have to answer for these building amnesties, but there's no shortage of people who will be or ought to be taken to account. You know, this starting from previous governments who also passed building amnesties to generations of developers who built on the cheap and who built illegally.

1 (7m 52s):
This is one of those events that is obviously drawn the attention of much of the world. What is the international response? Who is, who is helping, who's really standing out at this time?

2 (8m 3s):
I mean, I've seen, you know, television footage of rescue teams arriving from Japan, for example. I understand help is pouring in from a number of countries. I haven't seen any international foreign rescue teams in Anta. The problem is that a lot of locals in Anta haven't seen Turkish teams either. And so the effort is at least as far as they see it inadequate and the resources that the state here has addeds disposal, it are seen to be inadequate as well. Just to give you an idea of, you know, some of the scenes unfolding here, I saw an elderly woman pleading with some soldiers to clear the rubble of her son's house.

2 (8m 53s):
She said she knew that her son was inside, but you couldn't be heard from. And so the soldiers explained to her that they have to make difficult choices, they have to prioritize. So the heavy equipment that they have, the diggers, the cranes they only use in those areas, those buildings where there's hope of finding survivors. And they said that across the street was another building where they could hear the voices of people trapped under the rumble. And they explained to her that her son was probably dead. They tried to help by removing the rumble with their hands, but this was, you know, two or perhaps three story house, and there's only so much they could do.

2 (9m 39s):
The bulk of the rescue effort has been done by locals and by volunteers and people also, you know, flying in or driving in from other parts of the country. And the, the outpouring of sympathy and support by normal Turks has been quite, quite extraordinary as well.

1 (9m 60s):
This earthquake is, is a tragedy in which untold numbers of lives will be lost. On top of that, the economy will be hit hard. There is almost no way around that. And then on top of that, Richard Tie, Erdogan is facing an election in May, historically in Turkey when there is an event of this nature and you point to the quake in 1999, have people tended to blame the government and to vote out the person in charge?

2 (10m 23s):
Well, people won't blame the government for the earthquake. They won't blame the government for the inadequate response. And that was certainly the case in the late nineties and 99 when the earthquake struck near Istan. People felt at the time, and rightly so, that the earthquake response was wholly botched. And a common theme during that 99 earthquake was, you know, where is the state Turks had been taught for decades that their state was there to protect them.

2 (11m 5s):
They have been taught to admire the power of the state. And in 1999, the state was nowhere to be seen. Now, today, the situation has changed and you know, this government has actually taken some steps to improve the emergency response. But it seems to be that the consensus is that the government has not done enough and it probably will have to shoulder part of the blame, and that's going to hurt Erdogan's chances of reelection. And it's obviously going to make it much harder for the ruling party to win come May.

2 (11m 48s):
So there's almost certain to be a backlash, how big that backlash ends up being. Obviously depends on the ongoing rescue effort and perhaps it's too early Talk about reconstruction, but at least prospects for reconstruction. The focus right now is on the search and rescue effort and clearing the rubble, looking for survivors. And even, you know, 36 hours after the quake, there are people being pulled out alive as far as housing, people who have been rendered homeless by this, you know, a lot of folks depend, will depend on friends and relatives and other, the parts of the country.

2 (12m 31s):
Social networks and Turkey are remarkably strong and resilient. So people from places like Anta will be able, or at least many of them, will be able to find shelter with, with Fred's or family elsewhere. Many of the hotels here seem to have open their doors to people displaced by the quake. I've seen libraries converted into temporary shelters, mosques and schools, and they're obviously tent cities, you know, tents sprouting up all over the, the countryside here

1 (13m 12s):
From Anta where Peda is. A video is going around of rescue workers giving us stuck, but still smiling little boy sips of water from a bottle cap. The boys reportedly Syrian, and there are a lot of Syrians in Turkey, of course, as a result of that country's civil war. Coming up next, what this quake did in and to Syria. Here's a question for you. How have apps like Tinder, hinge and Bumble affected our search for love, maybe even your search for love? In the new season of the show, land of the Giants called dating games, the Verge and the Cut are teaming up to uncover the secrets of the dating app industry and show what happens when your love life becomes their business.

1 (13m 59s):
And indeed it does. In every episode, they're talking to experts and industry leaders about how tech has affected our relationships. You'll learn the economics of the dating industry. You'll hear surprising stories of real people trying to find love on an app. Find out what it means when your romantic life is part of a company's bottom line. You can follow land of the giants wherever you listen. New episodes are out every Wednesday

3 (14m 23s):
For as long as I can remember, bread has given me hiccups.

4 (14m 28s):
I always get the hiccups when I eat baby carrots.

5 (14m 30s):
Sometimes when I am washing my left ear, just my left ear, I hiccup

3 (14m 37s):
And my tried and true hiccup cure is,

6 (14m 40s):
Or a glass of water, light a match, put the match out in the water, drink the water, throw away the match,

7 (14m 46s):
Put your elbows out, 0.2 fingers together, and sort of stare at the point between the fingers, fingers. It doesn't work if you bring your elbows down, but it works.

8 (14m 55s):
Just eat a spoonful of peanut butter. Think of a green rabbit. I taught myself to burp on commands like, excuse me. And I discovered that when I make myself burp, it stops my hiccups.

9 (15m 13s):
Unexplainable is taking on hiccups, what causes them, and is there any kind of scientific cure? Follow unexplainable for new episodes every Wednesday.

1 (15m 30s):
It's today explained. We're back earlier this week in Idlib, northwest Syria. A crowd gathered and cheered as an entire family was pulled from a house alive. Three little kids, two girls and a boy were extracted first. The kids looked really stunned, but the rescue workers were loud and jubilant, and later their parents were removed. Unst stretchers to more very loud cheering. Sarah d Douche is a Washington Post correspondent based in Beirut, Lebanon. That's where we reached her. Sarah is also Syrian, and she told us that northwest Syria, where that family was rescued, is unfortunately in much worse shape than even Turkey. So

10 (16m 9s):
The earthquake that devastated Turkey and, and and Syria also struck both government held parts of Syria and rebel controlled areas in the Northwest. It left, you know, destruction in its path, but the Syrians, both in government held areas and in northwest, especially in the northwest, suffer from, you know, already compounding crises and, and a lack of funds and, and abilities to respond to such an emergency. So we're seeing people hit in, in north and central Syria.

1 (16m 39s):
What is life like for Syrians who are living in the northwest? The rebel held northwest.

10 (16m 44s):
So the, the rebel held northwest has really kind of been battered by bombardment battles, brutal humanitarian conditions with no end in sight. There's not enough medical facilities and not enough doctors. There hasn't been for years bombardment by the Syrian government's forces and their Russian allies has kind of pancaked a lot of medical centers and a lot of buildings. It's really, really affected the structural integrity of buildings. All of this was made worse by the earthquake. How

1 (17m 13s):
Are people living in those areas? You know, people talk about refugee camps. What does that look like? Are people in buildings? Are they intense? How might we, you know, envision this area?

10 (17m 23s):
So out of the maybe 4.5 million people living in the northwest, in that opposition held enclave, the un estimates about 3 million people were displaced from elsewhere in Syria. Wow. Many had been displaced several times over.

11 (17m 39s):
Some displaced people here have been uprooted several times and starting over has become routine and mee they need international support now if they're to cope with the dark conditions they live in.

10 (17m 53s):
For years, people have been living in tents, you know, among olive groves and on hard, very hard terrain exposed to the elements exposed to the rain and snow and cold. And a lot of the people who don't live in tents are forced to live in already damaged infrastructure. So that northwest corner was really not ready for a disaster like this.

1 (18m 15s):
We spoke to a reporter in Turkey earlier in the show, and we could hear ambulances behind him. You know, it was evident even though he said, Turks do not have everything they need. They do have some of the things they need. What does the recovery look like? What is it expected to look like in northwest Syria if people are already kind of living at a bare minimum? Who is helping, who is available to help?

10 (18m 38s):
I think the overwhelming sense in the northwest of Syria right now is that no one cares about northwest Syria. The, you know, that's the impression that residents have because there isn't really an estate that can govern. There is a pseudo state there, but none, not one that has funds. It doesn't have enough ambulances. It doesn't have the ability to dispatch firefighters or, or rescue workers. The rescue workers that exist, there are the Syrian civil defense or what people call the white helmets, and they're made up of members and volunteers. It's an aid group that operates in areas outside of government control.

12 (19m 11s):
Our teams responded to, to all the sites and the buildings. And still now, many families now are under the rubble. Our teams trying to save them. But it's, it's, it's very difficult test for us. We need help. We need the international community to do something to help us, to support us.

10 (19m 34s):
The weight of this has relied on them. They're the ones who have been pulling bodies and pulling people and trying to rescue everyone. This group has support from the UK government and other areas, but it has been saying it's not enough. For years, bombardment happened as recently as this past month. The war has not ended in this area, which needs food, water, shelter, medical assistance on a regular basis, let alone after a disaster.

1 (19m 60s):
Presumably, Sarah, the Syrian government cannot do anything in this region because it does not have any control in this region.

10 (20m 7s):
I don't think the Syrian government would want to do anything.

13 (20m 9s):
West Lepo, neighbors, iLet province, the last major areas held by rebels, they and vast numbers of civilians are cornered there by President Bashar AADs forces and their allies.

10 (20m 23s):
The reason so many people have been displaced to that area, to the northwest is because the Syrian government, whenever recaptured areas, it, it filled up, you know, these green buses with, with rebel fighters and everyone that they deemed a trader, which at the time would be pretty much anyone who was left in those rebel held areas before being taken. So they just piled them onto buses and sent them to the northwest. It's supposed supposed to be abandoned. This is on purpose from the Syrian government. So the Syrian governments also doesn't really have enough means to deal with the, not just the crisis, but it's normal economic woes as it is.

1 (20m 59s):
What are the options then for the people living in this area? What can they do? Can they go elsewhere, I guess is the question?

10 (21m 6s):
No, the, the people living there can't go elsewhere. I think many have been trying for a long time. People with special permissions. Sometimes people who work in specific organizations are able to move into the south of Turkey, where a lot of Syrian refugees live. But for mostly these IDPs, these internally displaced peoples don't really have a place to go. So they're just at this point just trying to find a place to sleep.

14 (21m 30s):
Some of those who did manage to escape unharmed are now braving the cold, living on the streets of Aleppo, they're afraid to go home.

15 (21m 40s):
You saw how a whole building just falls. It is terrifying. It's not as if mortars hit here or there. Here you walk in the streets, ambulances are everywhere. Buildings are falling, people are walking in the streets. There are bodies

1 (21m 55s):
Is aid on its way there to northwest Syria can aid get there. I mean, if this is an area where you say there's, you know, the prospect of violence in a normal time, what is it like trying to get help into Northwest Syria?

10 (22m 7s):
Getting help into Northwest Syria is very difficult. Everything that goes in has to be approved. There's a border crossing that the government allows for humanitarian aid to be sent in through Russia threatens to veto the, the renewal of this cross border aid every six months. And now we're seeing the United Nations office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs saying that damage Rose and other devastation from the earthquake has forced the United Nations to stop deliveries from Turkey into northwest Syria, which means millions of people are going to face, you know, dire conditions because of roads are broken, others are inaccessible.

10 (22m 47s):
There are logistical issues that the UN says it's, it's facing right

1 (22m 51s):
Now. It honestly seems for people in northwest Syria like this is, this is a plague. These people cannot win. They're already displaced from their homes. Many have lost people because of the war. They don't have any place to go. And then on top of that, this devastating earthquake,

10 (23m 8s):
Yeah, it feels as if this area just keeps going back in time. I think for its residents, you know, they, they lost electricity because of the war. Internet is not as readily available because they've been cut off water as end of last year, we started seeing all of these cases of cholera that actually trickled into Lebanon because of contaminated water and, and, and, and unsanitary practices. Shelter was scant and now even more so. So it just feels like they're being pulled further and further back into a worse time.

1 (23m 42s):
What do you think that the next few days and weeks will look like in Northwest Syria?

10 (23m 47s):
I think the effort to rescue people will not abate not even for a few days, I think longer because after the rescue effort takes on a more grim tone, and then it just becomes extraction efforts of all the different bodies. If the estimates are right, and if they think that there might be thousands of bodies under the rubble, then this could just be a very, very tiring and exhausting traumatic time for a place that's already been traumatized many, many, many times over. There's just a constant plea for any kind of support. So maybe something will come out of that.

1 (24m 28s):
That was Sarah d douche with the Washington Post in Beirut. We were also joined by Piore Olevsky from The Economist on the ground in Anta in Southern Turkey. If you'd like to know how to best help Turkey in Syria, take a visit to vox.com. My colleague Kelsey Piper, has written the Challenge of Disaster Relief, an insightful article about what helps in these situations and what does not. Today's episode was produced by Aha Artsy and edited by Matthew Collette. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Paul Robert Mosey. I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.