2 (9s):
Will hear argument first this morning and case 28, 28, the federal bureau of investigation versus facade. Mr. Nadler,

3 (18s):
Mr. Chief justice. And may it please the court, the state secrets privilege as firmly grounded in the constitution and the common law and is critical to safeguarding the national security.

4 (29s):
The Supreme court of the United States is trying to decide whether a case involving Muslims who are spot on by the FBI can move forward at issue is whether the government can have the case dismissed without actually showing any of its top secret evidence to a court. Now, that might sound a little wonky, but trust me, when I tell you that the case is absolutely bananas, it involves an FBI informant who is planted in a mosque to suss out terror plots, and then tried to spin up a terror plot of his own Sam black reported on for this American life.

1 (1m 4s):
The story starts in Irvine, California in the summer of 2006, a very large athletic man showed up to a mosque in Irvine, California for the first time and introduced himself as someone who wanted to convert to Islam and eventually stood in front of the congregation at the mosque and converted and his interactions with that community over the next several years will have huge repercussions for the community would end up in he himself being reported to the FBI as a terrorist would end up in the arrest of one man, and ultimately leads us to the situation today where this case has made its way to the Supreme court.

1 (1m 49s):
The man who showed up at the mosque is named Craig Montay. So Craig Montay, he looks like a linebacker for a football team. At the time he spent all of this time at the gym.

5 (1m 59s):
I'm 6, 2, 260 pounds. It's not fat. It's lean body mass. I bench 500 pounds. I have 21 and a half inch arms.

1 (2m 11s):
Craig started off life as a petty criminal. He used to Rob drug dealers for living in his words. This led him into a situation. We had a lot of conversations with law enforcement and he ended up being recruited as an informant by the FBI. And he says he participated in numerous thing, operations over the course of his career. When I interviewed Craig in 2012, he told me about all of these different aliases he had for different operations, Italian

5 (2m 43s):
Drug dealer. Vincent Denato a Russian Hitman by the name of Ivan Chernenko Colombian drug dealer, Pedro Hernandez, a Bulgarian drug dealer by the name of sir guy GERD. Also, I went by Polish names. One was lek Leschi

1 (3m 7s):
In my reporting on this story, we had to depend couldn't depend entirely on Craig's versions of events because Craig is not always the most reliable narrator of his own story. So everything I reported in that story was checked against court documents and the FBI's own statements. And what's clear is that we know for a fact that the FBI created emission for Craig, which is called operation flat.

5 (3m 30s):
I was to lure Muslim males into the gym, using my physique to see what actually is the real pulse of the Muslim community. They told me what I did was vital to America's national security and to do exactly what they said,

1 (4m 1s):
Credit created a backstory for himself because he needed the story as to why he was all of a sudden showing up to this mosque in Irvine, California, and announcing he wanted to convert to Islam. So his backstory was that he had Syrian ancestry, that he was rediscovering that ancestry. And that's why he had chosen to, to convert. And then upon converting, he needed a name in Islamic name. And so Craig took the name for Ruth. I was ease. And so many of the people who Craig met over the these years called him fruit. And they knew him as fruit.

4 (4m 40s):
This is entry into this new world, go initially, do people take to him? Do they, do they buy his identity?

1 (4m 51s):
Paul were extremely welcoming to Craig. I spoke with the people who really first reached out to him were a group of young men in their late twenties and early thirties, mostly Egyptian immigrants who were basically living in a bachelor pad after Friday prayers would hang out, have barbecues, play video games.

6 (5m 14s):
I was engaged at the time, but, but I, I used to play more X-Box and spending time. It was my fiance. It's like 80% X-Box and everything else comes. Second. FIFA soccer

1 (5m 27s):
Was the only thing we played a lot. If he fought, we still play a lot of FIFA. They one by one approached Farrukh, AKA Craig, and incorporate him into their community.

5 (5m 37s):
Well, first of all, they make some different food, which is very good, delicious food. And we sit on the couch for about maybe a couple of hours just have conversation and they would play their Xbox while we're having a conversation in a very competitive way.

1 (5m 55s):
Eventually Craig starts to talk to these men about jihad and about politics and about what they think of the American role in the middle east. And for these men. That's very strange because this, again, a guy who they thought was their gym, buddy,

5 (6m 20s):
I'd say, let's, let's meet tomorrow afternoon to the gym. We'll work out together. I'll teach you some things to how to get your forearms shaped a little better, your biceps, stronger, bigger. And at these workouts, I would ask very sensitive question regarding Islam, for example,

6 (6m 40s):
What do you think about, about, about ?

1 (6m 44s):
So Craig starts doing absurd things like

6 (6m 48s):
To it, you know? Okay. You know, or some of the Latin is a bad guy. He's a, he's a mother or, you know what I mean? All what we are suffering from right now is because of <em></em> new question right now is because of Osama bin Laden. You know what I mean? All of these new laws that they start acting about just searching, you know, sticking their finger in you is because of Osama bin Ladin. So he tell him, yeah, you know, <em></em> is where bad guy

4 (7m 15s):
Was Craig wearing a Mike when he was at the mosque? Was he, was he

1 (7m 19s):
Wired? Yes. So it's very important to understand that the whole time Craig was at the mosque at the houses of these different men, he surveilled in their cars. He was recording. He had a mic. He sometimes would make video recordings. He would attend their soccer games and take pictures of people's license plates, take sometimes videos to show who was talking to whom he would do things like take objects from people's homes that he thought would have their DNA on them. Like one of the men <em></em> men was a smoker and he would grab a cigarette butt and Brit and bring it back and give it to the FBI again with no, according to him, no specific instructions of individuals to focus on.

1 (8m 14s):
At least initially he assembled hundreds of hours of recordings, which he would then pass on to the FBI.

4 (8m 30s):
So where does this lead? I mean, how does operation flex continue

1 (8m 35s):
The absurdity of Craig's mission and his approach to all of this becomes very, very serious all of a sudden one day. So Craig ended up becoming friends with a few married men who were a little more serious about their religion. One of them in Muhammad and another name almond neo-Nazi, he would record his interactions with them when he escalates his tactics. These are two men who he's driving to a mosque up in LA with it's about a 45 minute drive. Let's say

7 (9m 12s):
Neo-Nazi was sitting in the backseat and through was sitting in the passenger and I was driving.

1 (9m 17s):
And over the course of that drive, he started talking to them about the political situation in the middle of middle east. How as a Muslim, he feels his and their people are under attack by the us government and that they need to do something about it. Little by little starts amping up his rhetoric and eventually,

5 (9m 36s):
And we should carry out a terrorist attack in this country because I'm tired, just staying around, doing nothing. I've got access to weapons. I know how to do things. We should bomb something.

7 (9m 55s):
Silence was out there in the car. I didn't say a word until we arrived to the mosque. I refused to talk at all. The first thing that came into my mind that I thought that he's a, a straight shot tourist. And at that, at that point, you know, I, I feel kind of scared from him. He scared me.

4 (10m 17s):
This is the FBI's informant who is sent into infiltrate, a mosque proposing a terrorist plot.

1 (10m 26s):
Yes. We now know that this kind of thing is not that rare. In many cases, the FBI has a vast network of informants in the Muslim community as part of its domestic war on terror and dozens of cases. There were informants who proposed terrorist plots to the men that they were surveilling. What happens with Craig is very unique because he has completely misjudged the people he's targeting. And as soon as he brings up that plot Muhammad and an Ahmed are horrified. They don't say another word for the rest of the car ride.

1 (11m 8s):
And as soon as they get back home, they talk to each other and they're like, well, there was only one thing to do. We have to report this guy to the FBI. He's clearly a terrorist. The way this actually goes down is that they go to a man named Husan, may lose who's the head of the council on American Islamic relations care in Southern California. And who saw him as the person who actually contacts the FBI bureau chief in Southern California, a man named Steven Tidwell. And what's so odd about that conversation. According to his song is that when he calls the FBI to tell them about this potential in their community, the reaction of the FBI is very strange.

1 (11m 58s):
As soon as he says, oh, this is, this was a white convert who had come into our community, the,

8 (12m 6s):
Oh, that's when he said, oh, okay, thank you. <em></em> that's great information. And we'll let you know what happens. I said, wait, wait, wait. Don't don't you need his name? Cause I had his name and I have his address because they knew where he lived. He said, well, you know, don't worry about it. You know, we work closely with Irvine PD and we'll take care of it. We'll take care of it from here. Don't worry about it.

4 (12m 31s):
What's going on there. Does the FBI know exactly who he's talking about?

1 (12m 34s):
Yes. They may have known as soon as, as immediately as that phone call, the person that who was being reported as the terrorist was their informant. Craig Montay,

4 (12m 45s):
What happens next? I mean, Craig proposes a terrorist attack. His erstwhile friends, report him to the FBI. What do they do? So,

1 (12m 55s):
So this is where the story truly turns sinister. This could have been a situation where the FBI backed off admit sort of their mission had gone totally awry, but instead they use the opportunity to further question people in this community. I'm in the Ozzy was one of the men who was in the car with Craig. When Craig proposed the terror plot. Yazzie was one of the men who reported Craig to the FBI as a terrorist.

1 (13m 40s):
And the Ozzie was one of the men who the FBI then went around and interviewed in the wake of that report and asked too many questions. Many of those questions unrelated to correct.

4 (13m 50s):
And why was the FBI so interested in this one guy Ahmed Neassa

1 (13m 55s):
Yes, he is an immigrant from Afghanistan at a certain point. Craig's FBI handlers became focused on the Ozzy as a potential target. And it seems that the reason for this is because one of the Aussie's sisters was married to a man who had been a bodyguard for a Psalm of bin Laden in Afghanistan. And neo-Nazi himself had lived in the U S for many years, had no direct ties to any militant group or any evidence that he himself was violent or criminal in any way. But because of this or tangential relationship, the FBI asked Craig to focus on neo-Nazi. And ultimately when the FBI went around asking questions about Craig, they use that as an opportunity to get I'm in the Ozzy on the record, talking about his immigration history, talking about his family and more generally just talking about his life and not long after that interview, he was approached by an FBI agent who told me that he had lied to them in his interview.

1 (15m 5s):
They accused him of a few things. One not disclosing two trips. He had taken to Pakistan to not disclosing that his sister had been married to someone who was affiliated with Osama bin Laden. Lastly, he was charged with using inconsistent versions of his full name. So what seems clear in retrospect is that the FBI was trying to use small infractions that neo-Nazi may have committed like immigration violations to tell him, well, we can ruin your life over this, but if you cooperate with us, we won't. And what cooperation means is that we're going to turn you into a more effective version of Craig Montana.

1 (15m 46s):
We're going to turn you into someone who actually can help us surveil this community. Does that work? Does the become an informant? Nazee declined to talk to me for this story because his life had really been, been completely disrupted. And by this experience, he did release a statement to me where he talked about how the FBI had ruined his life. But what happens is that I'm in the Ozzie refuses to go along with it. He says, I'm the one who reported the terrorist to you. What are you talking about? I don't need to work for, for the FBI and surveil my, my friends and family in this community.

1 (16m 31s):
And a year later or less, his home is rated. They take his computers, they take many documents and they ultimately arrest him in charge him with a series of minor immigration violations. The government ends up dropping all the charges and it's not clear why, but they must have realized they didn't actually have much of a case. So what do they do to Craig, Craig, Craig? Or should I say, what do they do with Craig? Craig effectively has to lay low during this time because he's been out here and he's useless to them at the same time that Craig was surveilling this community and being employed, being paid a lot of money by the FBI.

1 (17m 17s):
He was also engaged in kind of a, a scheme to sell human growth hormone, to some women who he had also met at the gym. He ends up being prosecuted for this. And without going into the whole story, basically Craig says this was another FBI sting operation he had been asked to do. And then when he became useless to the FBI, because he got reported by these men, that they threw him under the bus and they effectively arrested him for something he was being asked to do as a informant, Craig in many ways ends up on the sidelines of the heart of this story. As soon as he becomes useless to the FBI.

4 (17m 58s):
Does Craig face any consequences for spying on this community for engineering of fake terrorist,

1 (18m 4s):
Craig himself never faced this consequences for his behavior in the Muslim community. Craig has since apologized to many of the men who he surveilled.

10 (18m 15s):
I definitely appreciate the fact that he called, right? And then he apologized for it, but the damage is done. I, you know, I, I don't know what to do. I really don't. I now have a fear that I'm being monitored all the time. I don't know how you can change that.

1 (18m 32s):
Neither Craig, nor the FBI has been held accountable for operation flex and its many failures.

4 (18m 48s):
Muslims in Southern California are trying to hold the FBI accountable with the help of the ACLU and plot twist. Craig Montay himself. That's an a minute on today, explained

BetterHelp (19m 10s):
Support for the show today comes from better help online therapy. And they would like you to know that you don't want to wait too long to get therapy. If you think you could use it, you don't want to wait until you're in some sort of like mental health emergency. Think of it like, like your car, your car is making a funny sound and you're like, oh, I can deal with this now. Or I could turn my music up just a bit. And I'm listening to like, you know, deja VU, Olivia Rodrigo, and now all of a sudden I feel great. And I can't even hear that funny sound, but then you keep turning up deja VU, louder and louder. Cause the sound keeps getting louder and louder. And as the weeks go on, you're like clearly just trying to like, pretend that sound isn't there, but it's there and it's getting worse. And then all of a sudden your car breaks down in like, you know, the middle of like a five lane highway and it's very dangerous and you don't want to wait that long. That was a metaphor, but you know, apply it to therapy and your brain listeners get 10% off their first month at better help.com/explained that is better. aglp.com/explained support for the show today comes from door dash door Nash.

4 (20m 13s):
For those of you not in the know is a delivery service that allows you to order from restaurants, grocery stores, and even convenience stores from the comfort of your home and with their dash pass membership, you can save an average of four to $5 Bob on each order you place for delivery or pickup. If you're ready to save money on your door, Nash orders, here's what you want to do. Use the promo code Vox explained kind of smashed Vox explained all one word for 50% off your first order of $12 or more after you sign up for dash pass, that is 50% off your first dash pass order up to $20 value with the promo code Vox explained, say goodbye to delivery fees.

4 (21m 6s):
Get dash pass from door dash today using the promo code Vox explained when you've got zero delivery fees. You're free to get more because you can start your free month trial today.

11 (21m 28s):
Oh yay. Oh yay. Oh, yay.

4 (21m 34s):
All right. We're back. As you heard operation flex start in 2006 and ended about 18 months later. But as operation flex started winding down, two things went very, very wrong. The first was a big problem for the FBI.

12 (21m 46s):
Hi, Craig is on orders from the FBI kind of speaking to Muslims in Southern California. You know, talking to them about more extremist ideas and even getting involved in violence or terrorist plots. And that became so concerning to one mosque that they reported him to the FBI as a possible security threat, and also filed a restraining order.

4 (22m 7s):
The second was a problem for Craig.

12 (22m 9s):
Craig got involved in a plot where he told two women that if they fronted him money, he would be able to purchase human growth hormone, resell it, and then they would profit and he would provide the money back. And of course, Craig took the money and then never provided it back. And the local police arrested him for the scam. Craig alleges that the FBI told him to plead guilty and they'll take care of it. And so he did that and the FBI didn't take care of it. They let him go to jail and he spent time in prison and he gets out. And at that point, his relationship with the FBI doesn't exist. And so Craig at that point has a score to settle and he decides to go public.

4 (22m 50s):
Trevor Aaronson has been covering the fallout from operation flex

12 (22m 54s):
The intercept. And so he calls journalists in Southern California, invites them to his home in orange county and holds this makeshift press conference in his living room where he basically says,

5 (23m 5s):
I think it's very important that I come out as informant working for the FBI joint terrorism task force.

12 (23m 13s):
And the FBI is spying on Muslims simply because they are Muslims. When Craig went public with what had happened in operation flex, you know, this was the beginning of the time that journalists like me were trying to understand what the FBI was doing in investigating terrorism in the first decade after nine 11, no one did

13 (23m 38s):
At the bulky bald Montay was an FBI informant. However, the FBI does deny that it's informants target Muslim moms as

12 (23m 46s):
Monteria legends in the beginnings of my research, I flew to Southern California and met with him. And what's interesting about Craig and I've gotten to know Craig now for over 10 years, we've been in regular touch since I first met him. I can say that just about everything Craig said was true. And just about everything Craig said benefited, correct.

13 (24m 5s):
Craig Monte went to court to get ammunition at a $10 million lawsuit against the,

12 (24m 10s):
The FBI. And of course among the people who see this press conference and read the read the news reports, our lawyers for the American civil liberties union,

14 (24m 19s):
The lawsuit alleges is that that kind of targeting of surveillance on the basis of religion violates the us constitution protections for religious freedom, it's freedom.

12 (24m 29s):
And they come up with this idea to say, Hey, the enemy of my enemy is my friends. Why don't we call up Craig Montay and see if he'll work with us. And Craig agreed. Craig submitted as part of the ACLU litigation, a sworn affidavit where he lays out exactly what he did and makes clear that his activity for the FBI was based on targeting people solely for the fact that they were practicing their religion solely for the fact that they were Muslim.

4 (24m 60s):
So a guy who voluntarily becomes an FBI informant and then infiltrates a mosque in Southern California and actually proposes some terror plots to genuine Muslims, ends up suing the FBI for infiltrating a mosque in Southern California,

12 (25m 20s):
Essentially I'm Craig, isn't the one suing, he's basically a witness for the lawsuit. And so the lawsuit involves three plaintiffs, three named plaintiffs who were, you know, people that Craig specifically spied on one, a man named , who was the mom at the time of one of the larger mosques in orange county.

15 (25m 36s):
<em></em> president Obama gave a speech this morning and then the speech he was going to be addressing the NSA, you know, the being going around, spying on people and by people here, I mean Muslim people

12 (25m 51s):
And those three plaintiffs represent essentially the class of Muslims in Southern California, who Craig spied on, which you know, is a number that could possibly reach into the thousands. And, and so, you know, what Craig is doing is essentially acting as the witness. You know, the one who's saying I did this for the government and here's what I did. And here's why it's essentially illegal. And what's interesting as well is that the government has acknowledged that Craig Montay did this. They have acknowledged that, that he was the informant. And so it's not a question of whether Craig Montay really was working for the FBI. It's a question of whether Craig Montay, infiltrating Southern California Muslim communities was a violation of the civil rights of these various Muslims he met.

12 (26m 36s):
Okay.

4 (26m 37s):
So how does this lawsuit go? They go

12 (26m 39s):
To court and the government basically says, okay, okay. You know, this happened, Craig Montay was an FBI informant and he spied on these people, but it's not true that the reason he spied on them was because they're Muslim. We have other reasons to spy on these people with these were predicated investigation, which means that they had reason to believe that they were committing some sort of crime. But you know what the government says is judge ACLU, we're going to tell you that this was, you know, on the up and up, but we had predicated investigations, but we can't show you why, because this is all in documents that are under state secrets privilege, that if we show them to you, we're exposing the government to all sorts of national security threats.

12 (27m 26s):
And we just can't do that. So take our word for it. This is all legal. We didn't spy on people because they're Muslim, you know, let's drop this case. And so the judge who initially hears the case, agreed to that and said, okay, I trust the government. The government says they didn't do anything wrong. I'm going to drop this case, but that's not the end of it. That's when the ACLU then appeals the case and the appellate court comes back and says, no, no, no, you can't just say this didn't happen without providing evidence and just expect us to drop the case and what the appellate court suggested. And this, this is a process that has taken years, a decade and all what the appellate court recommended was that under the Pfizer law, which is the foreign intelligence surveillance act, which allows prosecutors to provide in camera privately to a judge evidence that is relevant to cases.

12 (28m 16s):
But if released would present some sort of national security concern, this Pfizer procedure allows the government to go to the judge and say, here's the evidence only you can view it. And you can make a ruling based on what you're viewing here. And you know, this has happened in cases throughout the country and what the appellate court said was why don't you guys just do that? You know, if you have this document that shows that the activity of Craig Montay and the FBI was not illegal, then show it to a judge. You don't have to show it to the ACLU, show it to a judge and let the judge decide whether this case can move forward or not. And really that's the issue that's before the Supreme court. Now

2 (28m 54s):
We'll hear argument first, this morning and case 28, 28, the federal bureau of investigation versus,

12 (29m 2s):
You know, the Supreme court isn't going to rule on whether the FBI and Craig Montay violated the civil rights of Muslims throughout Southern California. All they're going to rule on is whether the government is allowed to assert state secrets privilege and just have this case go away. Or if there's another protocol that needs to happen in order for a judge, for example, to review the evidence and decide at that point, whether the case can go forward or not.

4 (29m 28s):
So the Supreme court held oral arguments in November. How was this question of whether the FBI can invoke the state secrets privilege received?

12 (29m 39s):
My sense of the, of the oral arguments was that the Supreme court was highly skeptical of the government's position that we, yeah, we didn't do this, but we can't show you why. And it

16 (29m 48s):
In a world in which the national security state is growing larger every day,

12 (29m 52s):
That's quite a power at the same time. They weren't entirely comfortable with the, the appellate court solution.

17 (29m 58s):
The information, depending on what it is, it's not the kind of information you want floating around, even in the white house to people much less floating around.

12 (30m 7s):
And I'm wondering if they're going to try to come up with a kind of middle road that requires the government to somehow pass some sort of hurdle to, to show that the documents it says it has really do show. It is not negligent and did not violate these people's civil rights, but at the same time, doesn't go. As far as what the, the appellate court had had suggested.

4 (30m 27s):
And if the Supreme court goes further and rules against the governor,

12 (30m 31s):
If the Supreme court rules against the government, there's really two possibilities. The government could choose to go with whatever solution the Supreme court comes up with to show this evidence that it apparently has. However, if the government isn't comfortable with that, it can still say, no, no, no, we're not going to show you these documents, but we're just going to go forward with the litigation anyway and defend ourselves based on whatever evidence we have aside from these documents. And that's really what the ACLU is saying as well. They're saying, if you want to use these documents, you have to show them if you don't want to use these documents, that's fine to argue on whatever your other evidence is.

4 (31m 14s):
And if the Supreme court does rule against the government and this case is actually litigated, what would that mean for all these people who

12 (31m 21s):
We're surveilled in the post nine 11 era, the FBI recruited more than 15,000 informants, an unprecedented number and its history. And many, if not, most of those informants were assigned to Muslim communities to find would be terrorist to go into mosques and other areas where Muslims congregated and the basis is largely believed that there was no criminal predicate that the FBI was targeting these people simply because they are Muslim. If this case move moves forward, the reason it is so significant is that it really would be a challenge to the legality, not only of what happened in Southern California, but what we, what we seen in the, in the entire post nine 11 era, and which continues today, that isn't necessarily going to stop as a result of this litigation.

12 (32m 4s):
But I think it's going to allow us to kind of peel back the curtain and, and provide some level of accountability to say to the government that you know, you can't just target people based on their religious faith or their religious observances, and do it without any sort of accountability.

4 (32m 28s):
Trevor Aaronson is a reporter at the intercept and the author of the terror factory inside the FBI's manufactured war on terrorism earlier in show you heard from documentarian, Sam black, he reported an operation flex for this American life back in 2012, thanks to this American life for letting us use tape from the original story, it's called the convert. You can find it@thisamericanlife.org. We reached out to Craig Montay for comment on our story today, Craig says there's a quote misconception that the Muslim community notified the FBI out of a patriotic duty while I was undercover during operation flex and quote. Instead Craig said a member of Irvine's local police department had learned he wasn't informant than it needs to the Muslim community.

4 (33m 15s):
As Craig sees it, Muslims and Irvine did not report him because they thought he was a terrorist. But because an officer told the community, he was an informant, we also reached out to the FBI for comment, but they said they usually don't talk about pending litigation. We can expect a decision from the Supreme court in FBI versus fossa Gus, sometime in the new year. Our episode today was produced by Halima Shaw edited by Matthew Collette. Fact-checked by Laura Bullard. And we'll read an engineered by Christian nyala and Paul <em></em> I'm Sean Rama's from this is today explained.