2 (12s):
It's say explained. I'm Sean Rama's Forum optimism has taken a beating this year. We kicked 2020 off with the world on fire Australia was burning now. It's California between the two a global pandemic and economic downturn the killing of George Floyd protests that were sometimes brutally suppressed people are struggling to pay rent to feed their families to find inspiration. People are worried about the post office and they're Good part of the year to go. How do we find the good when there's so much bad? Maybe ask a cheerleader. That's what Avery truffle men decided to do.

2 (54s):
She's the host of a new podcast from the VOX media podcast Network. It's called the cut. For those of you who don't know the cut is like a stylish sexy culturally cool subdivision of New York Magazine, and now there's a new podcast to complement the text version new. Thuds come out every Wednesday. And since it's Wednesday, we thought we'd share the very first episode of the cut with you. It's all about finding positivity in a very bad year. Listen, enjoy subscribe and maybe you'll start to feel hopeful again, even for a fleeting moment the cut the cut the

1 (1m 33s):
cut the cut. the cut there is it like everybody they're making fun of me

2 (1m 42s):
but my coronavirus hobby is going to be I'm going to become a beekeeper Well,

1 (1m 47s):
Ron quarantine. I already bought my book about beekeeping. Yeah, actually, this is a recording from March 9th. When I ever eat Rifleman flew across the country to come visit the offices of New York Magazine to audition to be the host of this podcast. That's when I met Stella bug be the editor-in-chief of the cut and we went to the studio. To see what our chemistry would be like and I bought the beekeepers Bible. I've been joking about it the other day like you don't feel I have a really good name for a honey company is like bug peas API, you know, so then I was like, what would it take to make money in

2 (2m 23s):
Brooklyn?

1 (2m 25s):
I didn't know Stella my potential new boss and I couldn't tell if she was joking or not. I mean we were all just kind of hesitantly laughing in the face of the future even as we are slapping on hand sanitizer and conspicuously not touching our faces. Sure. Couldn't shake sell his hand, but I was hopped up on imagination. I'd been reading York Magazine all my life and the cut is one of my favorite places on the internet. So I was just Starstruck. I fantasized about working for the cut. I imagined myself breathing into the office and a fabulous coat and big earrings clutching one of those Greek diner style paper coffee cups. It all just seems so glamorous and New York and there was such exciting energy swirling around that day.

1 (3m 8s):
I visited the Listen, March. Everyone was planning for the April issue of the cut. And it looked like it was going to be a really fun one. The cover story was going to be a profile of LaDarius Marshall from the Netflix documentary series cheer. I'm not normally very up on TV, but I was really into cheer. So I was really of selling I had something to talk about you are a freaking Neva. Our privilege if you haven't watched cheer its this multi-part Netflix documentary series about this Elite cheerleading squad based in Corsicana, Texas at this junior college called Navarro, Ladarius. Marshall is arguably the most talented of the boys on the team and he knew it he can come off as a bit of a diva, but you root for him.

1 (3m 52s):
Anyway, I've been saying I've been better than everybody says that was boy with Darius is just so captivating and charismatic on the show and the cut had nabbed his first-ever big. Shoot and it turned out with Darius was a natural at it. It's like to be a model. He could be an actor. He could go host Entertainment Tonight. Adrian green is a senior editor at the cut who's working on the Ladarius cover story 2020 was going to be Ladarius as last year cheering with Navarro College and we were all so excited to see what would be next for him. You know, like there's so much Glitz and glamour that kind of like surrounds him

2 (4m 30s):
wherever he goes

1 (4m 31s):
that day. I visited the offices of the cut. But all the writers were infected with the cheerleading Spirit just amped up on this profile. I remember nervously sitting in a conference room with Stella and seeing out of the corner of my eye that all the writers for the cut were laughing and trying on these genuine Navarro College cheerleader bows. Yeah. I remember a group of us put on our bows and walked into a meeting and people were like there they go

2 (4m 58s):
cut people doing cut stuff

1 (4m 60s):
again. I was excited to meet all the cut writers, but day March but I didn't get to. And that's because that day around 3 p.m. An email rippled through the office like a horror movie. I don't know what the company email actually said because I was not an employee then but the message was something along the lines of go home and don't come back. Suddenly. Everyone was grabbing their jackets and racing towards the doors and rows of cubicles emptied before me and I was like what is happening?

2 (5m 34s):
I left so quickly that I left. Single are pod on my desk

1 (5m 40s):
still a bug be fled the office not unlike

2 (5m 43s):
Cinderella. Yeah, I left in a hurry. I don't even know what else I left on my desk.

1 (5m 48s):
I wonder if all those cheerleading bows are still sitting there on the writers desks a forlorn Memento of a joyous time before

2 (5m 57s):
like it never occurred to me that we would be still. We would be launching this podcast like and that would be the only time we ever met that thing really inconceivable to

1 (6m 9s):
me. Of course, it was inconceivable to me too. I just remember being in shock getting expelled out into the street and in the space of a few minutes all are joking about beekeeping was suddenly ridiculous. I think there's a lot of pressure to project a sense

2 (6m 30s):
of positivity when you're talking to another person. Nobody really wants to be around someone who is like a Debbie Downer type

1 (6m 40s):
And I mean, I

2 (6m 41s):
knew I'm sure on some level I wasn't really going to become a beekeeper. It just seemed really funny to think of that happening.

1 (6m 49s):
I mean Sonny sure but under capitalism positivity also means productivity optimism also means optimizing for all the talk about using this shelter-in-place time to learn Spanish or baked bread or read War and Peace or get into beekeeping. I don't think that was the real Ready for most of us. I

2 (7m 12s):
mean I don't know. There's like a sense of delusion. I guess would be the right

1 (7m 19s):
word in the age of pandemic. The adjective optimistic has actually become a euphemism for delusional. I mean that is the way it's used on the news as a polite synonym for unlikely and President Trump, he and health professionals are optimistic. I think 12 to 18 months is extremely optimistic

2 (7m 39s):
not gonna be nearly as easy and economic recovery is an optimistic Market. To presume at this

1 (7m 45s):
point in a weird way optimism started to mean it's very opposite. It reminded me of this old joke where a pessimist says. Well things couldn't get any worse and an optimist says well sure they could but that's the question is optimism saying it could get worse or that it could get better. That's sportswriter. Jordan Carnes. They just so happen to be my neighbor in Oakland, California, and also one of the only people I interacted with and Team life lockdown together in our neighborhood unable to see our other friends unable to hug each other. We started talking a lot about the show cheer. I can't imagine the future which is you know, like who can write and so I'm watching this documentary and I'm just thinking about like how they're doing these things with their bodies in the pyramid that like I could never imagine in tear.

1 (8m 41s):
It's not just waving pom-poms. Navarro College cheerleaders are doing inconceivable things with their bodies like flipping 360 degrees in the air and landing in a tent made of their teammates arms. It's like gymnastics meets dance meets. Nothing I've ever seen before and so I just was thinking about like their ability to execute this thing that I couldn't imagine. Well, I was also like not being able to imagine my future and I was just like damn that's optimism. The show cheer is optimism incarnate. But not just in a way that means productivity or superficiality or denial.

1 (9m 23s):
It's really a show about how multi-faceted optimism truly is. I think when we think of optimism, we think of like the cheerleader and make up with like a huge bow in her hair and like that's like this like hyperbolic image of optimism, which is like not how most people feel any given day and it turns out that's not how the cheerleaders on the Navarro College team feel. Either there's a lot of stereotypes of go to cheerleading people think that were dumb blondes people think that we just do like cheers like give teams stuff like that. But we actually put our bodies in a lot of pain.

1 (10m 5s):
Yes sport is all about having this veneer of like optimism and effortlessness Adrian green again, who edited the profile of LaDarius for the cut. It's a grueling sport. It's like people falling arms the whacking like lots of Lake really intense and grueling movement squeeze your butt. One is crazy. What we do if you think about it, like Whoever thought of taking two people and a back spot and chucking someone is there and see how many times they can spend how many times I can flip that person is psychotic. But yeah, I'm the crazy person because I'm the one that doesn't and even as the cheerleaders are smiling ear to ear popping their chins up raising their arms and Victoria's Glee.

1 (10m 56s):
They are in real danger at all times. At any instant a horrific injury can break the spell. It's excruciating to watch them practice. The cheerleaders are constantly breaking bones and falling from stories up in the air. Their joints are being dislocated. Their ribs are getting cracked. There are understudies waiting on the sidelines for when someone on the team inevitably gets too injured to practice anymore be prepared to step in at any time at any spot circle out get a break.

1 (11m 37s):
This is a part of what their optimism means.

2 (11m 41s):
sacrifice

1 (11m 43s):
which is kind of at odds with the definition I had for optimism. I thought optimism or pessimism for that matter was about how you envision the future. The future will be good or the future will be bad. But another definition of optimism is actually about the present whatever pain and suffering anxiety uncertainty that you might be feeling none of our emotions last forever. And that's true of these more negative ones as well. That's Emily esfahani Smith who wrote The Power of meaning finding fulfillment in a world obsessed with happiness, and she redefined optimism for me as an explanatory Style. A way to make sense of pain telling yourself that this is a challenge not a threat or asking yourself, you know are there opportunities and what I'm going through for me to learn and to grow to deepen my relationships things like that because life is suffering.

1 (12m 40s):
It just is bad things happen. And optimism is a matter of how you frame your role in that suffering. It's the narrative you tell that allows you to move forward. And one thing that's research points out is that the Redemptive story has been used by oppressed people for ages to kind of help them make sense of their experiences and give them hope whether it's you know, the Jews during Biblical times or African Americans during the Civil Rights Movement. Both groups kind of deliberately and consciously told these Redemptive stories of moving from bondage to Liberation in this way optimism is a tool of survival and you can hear the cheerleaders on to your frame their lives this way all the time.

1 (13m 34s):
They are constantly giving each other pep talks. Like here's one of LaDarius psyching up the team without everybody coming together. We're going to fail then we're going to fall but as long as we're all together, and we're helping each other. We're going to rise and we're going to get where we need to go. And a lot of these pep talks definitely sound like platitudes. But the thing is they work so much of optimism is a mind game and that's part of why optimism is a more complicated expansive emotion than we give it credit for. It requires labor Optimus have a capacity to both acknowledge the difficulty of what's going on while also being able to find some good in it.

1 (14m 25s):
They acknowledge the horror of what's happening. But even so there's something about the way their mind works that allows them to still see hope and Find meaning. Optimism Emily esfahani Smith argues is not about delusion or denial. Optimists are able to see the reality and simultaneously believe the Badness is not for naught. They can find meaning in their pain and this is easier to learn to do if you were raised being told that you are empowered and that you are the hero of your own story in this way optimism to degree is a privilege.

1 (15m 19s):
But not exclusively so many of the cheerleaders on cheer came from really hard childhoods including Ladarius and that Tom the abuse that I endured was just so much

2 (15m 35s):
I really felt like I was really alone is that there was nobody that was gonna come save me that I was almost gonna literally just

1 (15m 43s):
died. For Ladarius and for so many of the cheerleaders on the team optimism is the cognitive equivalent of spinning 360 degrees in the air and landing on one hand. They train like hell for it. They're talking themselves up all the time. No matter who you are. Once you're a part of this program, if you need something somewhere in the world, they will be a person that has been a part of this program and they can help you out. Once you're a part of the family you're just in Their optimism comes from their belief that the pain is worth the support they found in each other, but the pain is proof to themselves that they can do impossible unimaginable Feats.

1 (16m 25s):
They are telling themselves that they are growing from their suffering they have to because all their labor an effort leads to just one moment every year there's a big cheer competition in Daytona Beach where the teams from across the country come to perform their cheer routine that one ridiculously elaborate routine that they have rehearsed day after day hour after hour through so much pain all so they can be in this one competition for two minutes and 15 seconds That's it.

1 (17m 8s):
You have one chance to do that one or seen one little mistake can just toss it all for us. If you mess up. That was your only chance you just wasted your whole year. It is gut-wrenching. There's no professional cheerleading after that. There's no career waiting for them. And there's like the Dallas Cowboys, but they don't do the acrobatics that college care does they're essentially two different sports and the Navarro College cheerleaders aren't kidding themselves. They know that the labor The pain of practice is so much longer and so much more than those two and a half minutes of relative Glory at Daytona when we go to Daytona. No one cares literally no one cares, but you know, it's our job watching the show it broke my heart to think that it's the cheerleaders job to get everyone else excited about all the other sports and then no one cares about their own world of athleticism.

1 (18m 6s):
Well as my writer friend Jordan puts it I mean cheerleading is like the invisible laborer the cheerleaders have to find meaning in the process in the larger lessons. They're learning and the community they're finding because the tangible payoffs of cheerleading are so minut and fleeting. Especially now in 2020 Daytona was supposed to be in April. It was supposed to be the grand finale for Ladarius is cure career and then it becomes like how do you start to think about your future when the moment that was supposed to be like you're 10 minutes to stand in the sun isn't there

2 (18m 47s):
anymore?

1 (18m 50s):
It's wild to know that we all had canceled Daytona's of Our Own in 2020 things. We are looking forward to and banking on and ways. We thought this year was going to be different and they just went away. When I was looking for a sublet in Brooklyn, I wanted to make extra sure it had a walk-in closet not to house my collection of fabulous new coats, like I'd been dreaming of but because I know that's where I'm going to be recording this podcast for the foreseeable future. Everyone is kind of like stuck in this limbo of like there was supposed to be some magic in this year and now there's not and what do I do about it and who better to ask than the cheerleader?

1 (19m 34s):
After the break we check back in with Ladarius Marshall long after the cut cover came and went after cheer stopped filming and after Daytona was

2 (19m 43s):
canceled what

1 (19m 45s):
now?

2 (19m 50s):
The cut the cut the

1 (19m 51s):
cut the cut the cut. First of all, hey, I'm so sorry about Jonah. Oh, I'm all

2 (20m 3s):
right. It's okay. We got to move on from it move past it.

1 (20m 9s):
I mean, can I ask how you found out was there some big announcement from the team?

2 (20m 15s):
Yeah. It was our Kochi have put us audit into the Into our basketball stadium and she has told us all their say that we won't be able to continue with us season due to covid everybody was crying especially if I heard years. I was just didn't like it sounds like girl. Y'all knew cover was going to have everything was that they're you know, they're gonna shut us down. So we is not admissible in Superman. I told him there will now be a season I tried to warn them we have to be positive and I was like girl this is a disease that they don't have a cure for we ain't having it.

1 (20m 53s):
What did that mean being positive about it? Like what did that mean

2 (20m 56s):
again is it was like looking out like 1 and season and continued thinking it like garona. We use not going to continue now

1 (21m 3s):
season. So like, how are you finding? Some ISM now because when I like it's funny around the same time you were finding out about Daytona. I was at the offices of the cut looking at your photo shoot and we're all like, oh my God Le Derek. What's he gonna do? Is he gonna like host Entertainment Tonight? Is he gonna be in movies? It just seemed like this was going to be I mean not saying it's not your year, but we're all like ready for it to be your year. Like, what do you what do you make of it now?

2 (21m 32s):
I'm still going to college. I'm going to college I'm here in Mississippi and I've decided even like caught all the stuff. I was like I'm sitting here because at first I was getting myself a little down. I was like, you know what I'm a little sad because I'm like dang I didn't get to finish my season and what's next so then I was like, you know what says everything in the world is shut down because me, just like y'all was seeing a girl. I was ready to be on the TV be on the road. I was ready to go and I was like, you know what I gotta I gotta find Something something different something new to inspire me. So I did I found out that I really like Radiology. So I'm going to be doing a radiology program to get my degree in that

1 (22m 15s):
I mean did you first start like talking to radiologist because of your injuries?

2 (22m 21s):
Yes. Could I have hurt my fingers and I wanted to see what was wrong with them. But you know black people don't go to the hospital and I'll see about to die. So We defined it as like, you know, honestly if I could just check my own fingers, then it wouldn't be a problem. And that's when I got the whole thing started turning in my head like so I'll let you know what honestly I'm going to that field because that's that's seems like fun to me and it was during quarantine when I decided that because I want something that's going to be a staple in this world because you can't get rid of you can't get rid of doctors and stuff like that baby. They ain't going nowhere. We are always always need Always because if you ain't got no dog is girl.

2 (23m 4s):
We all just on it. We might as well go ahead and sign our death

1 (23m 7s):
certificate. How do you do that magic thing you learn to do. How do you turn your because you've experienced some like really bad stuff in your life and you've still been able to turn it around. How do you think other people can learn to do

2 (23m 20s):
that? I feel like you can learn how to do that when you take it for what it is. You look at the issue for just that an issue an inconvenience. So it's always thinking about what is going to make me the happiest because the world is just going to be the world. Maybe do what makes you happy if people if people don't understand that if your job and making you happy quit if your man ain't making you happy Louis, If your woman is making you happy leave you everyone is worth more than that. Do not subject yourself to give it a corporation or something so much of your time. And while they get to sit down and they get to go visit a family they get all the big dogs.

2 (24m 3s):
They get to go do all that stuff that you can't do. You have to work on the holidays. They don't. Oh

1 (24m 8s):
my God Ladarius. Are you down for the revolution this like every time

2 (24m 12s):
for I'm tired? I want the world to be good. I want the words to be something worth it. If you if there's a thousand people in there's two bosses who has more power even though somebody has more money. The people that race your baby I promise you when you start voting these people out and you start making sure the right people are in place. They're not promise you the world is going to be just a little even if it makes a small percent of A change is going to be enough for the world to see

1 (24m 46s):
and you think it'll happen. Like are you optimistic about that

2 (24m 49s):
baby if everybody stay is matters they were doing yes. They will there's no reason that Briana Taylor's Killers murderers should still be free and I don't care and I said it how do you walk into somebody else's house and you kill them when they haven't done a single thing. And the most you can do is I was the wrong person. No apology. No arrest no

1 (25m 14s):
nothing. But how do we square that circle? Like how can we find like there's so much to be mad about like the world is so unfair and the idea that we're supposed to be able to like try to find optimism or like try to believe that everything happens for a reason when Brianna Taylor's murder so clearly was for no reason like, how are we supposed to find the good when there's so much bad?

2 (25m 37s):
Let me tell you this right here. This is how I do it. About myself when this whole black lives matter, so to help and I was like, you know what the world really is corrupt. We got the people out here killing each other in the military. We got Brianna's killer still out here killing her for no reason. We got George Florida out here dying over $20 and I just sit there and sometimes I really be like that really just hate people now and days like the world is so little and then I keep thinking those people are going to get what's coming to them. That's how I stay optimistic because we may not be able to see it. But what God is going to do.

2 (26m 20s):
I always I use God all the time. I say everything happens for a reason it if he saw fit for us to go and do that and do Navarro and do Daytona did not it would have been that but it what he did not see fit and it wasn't just one thing that was canceled. Everybody's thing was canceled. FC fit for anybody to be doing what they were supposed to be doing maybe that was meant to happen. Maybe that was saving us from something that could have been way worse. It just

1 (26m 48s):
like I don't have faith like you have and I'm so envious that you do like. I wish I could put my faith in God or something like God, but like for people who don't have God to lean on how can we find optimism right now

2 (27m 2s):
girl, you know, look, I want you to find your spiritualness. I want you to find out what makes you happy like think of Of something that's pure whether it's a baby or an elderly person and I want you to think of how happy that person makes you and I want you to think of where your life is going to go where your life is going to be because when you survive this like you've survived everything else. You're going to be better out then thinking. Oh, I hate the world hate the world because the world will always have corruptness like it's never going to completely wash away and change. So when you go into life and you like, you know what I understand this is bad right now, but I understand it and there will be change if not today.

2 (27m 47s):
Or tomorrow, it'll happen whether happened when I'm alive or it happens in the Next Generation or the Next Generation. It's going to happen. So that's where I feel like that's where most of my optimism comes from because when I think of things in the future my old girl, whatever won't even get to that point. So then I was like, you know what we gonna be happy about what we have right now.

1 (28m 13s):
It feels impossible to try to imagine the future. For myself in this new job at the cut and my new life in the new New York City and in this nation and in this world, it's like what Jordan said about watching the Navarro cheerleaders formed pyramids with their bodies optimism. Looks like it's trying to reach for an unimaginable thing. But what Ladarius exemplifies is that realism and optimism don't preclude each other and some ways they buttress each other. They help make significance and what we're all going through now because I thought life is right. We're all just going through it trying to figure out what it all means.

1 (28m 54s):
That's what we're going to do here on this show every week make meaning of all this stuff good and bad. I'm really really happy to be here. I'm glad you're here, too. Ba Parker is our show's lead producer production and editorial support from Allison Behringer. This episode was engineered and scored by Brandon McFarland who also composed our theme song special thanks to Corinne's a cadenas and Sangeeta think hurts Stella bugbee and a shot kurwa are the show's executive producers.

1 (29m 34s):
I'm Avery troubleman and thank you for listening. Hi, my name is Martha. I'm a producer inbox and I recently got my first ever pair of all Burns their treat Asher's the world's first performance running shoe made from premium natural materials. I don't know about y'all but going for runs and walks. It's been the key to keeping myself afloat these days. So I was really excited when I took my all birds out for a spin and they felt great on my feet and kept me cool on a run here in Houston, Texas, which is nothing short of amazing, but the best part about my new all birds is that they're comfortable. Will and carbon neutral thanks to sustainable practices like offsetting carbon emissions and I know that because all birds measures the carbon footprint of all of its products and listed on every pair of shoes socks and undies that tells you things like the energy consumption of assembly factories and the amount of energy it takes to run your shoes through the wash because yes, they are machine washable.

1 (30m 35s):
Amazing. All birds knows that you can't reduce your footprint until you know, what it is. That's why they committed to lowering their impact over time. They can leave a better kind of footprint with all birds feel confident knowing you're wearing a product that's doing right by your feet and the planet learn more about their sustainable practices and find your pair at all birds.com.