0 (7s):
Oh, happy Halloween. And what are you Maverick from? Top Gun. I'm dark, Brandon. Ooh. And you're a balloon.

1 (15s):
I'm inflation dummy.

0 (17s):
Scary. What do we have here? I've got full size Skittles. I've got some Tootsie rolls. Ooh. And what else is in here? Rainbow Fentanyl.

2 (31s):
The DEA warning, the deadly rainbow fentanyl could end up inside of a candy bag of your kid.

0 (37s):
They've

3 (37s):
Found rainbow fentanyl in 21 states.

4 (41s):
It looks like candy. And in fact, some of the drug traffickers have nicknamed it Sweet Tarts. Skittles.

1 (47s):
We'll just take the Mister

0 (50s):
Suit yourself. The annual Halloween hysteria on today explain

5 (1m 2s):
Young children now going out to trick or treat. I mean, basically parents have a decision to make. You don't let your kids get that candy. It doesn't mean the person giving it out is intending to go harm. We

0 (1m 13s):
Throw away all the nerds in the sweethearts

6 (1m 16s):
Today explained. But we're gonna talk about three days from today, Monday's Halloween. On Monday, kids across the continents will take to the streets to trick or treat, and some of their parents will be worried about rainbow fentanyl. It's the latest in a long line of Halloween panics candy, Apples with razor blades, poison candy bars, marijuana gummies. The latest freak out over rainbow fentanyl made us wanna ask someone in the know whether any of these Halloween panics has ever been based in, you know, reality.

7 (1m 49s):
Here's to me the absolutely fascinating part of the story. According to sociologist Joel Bass, who began a study of this going back to 1958, and he's actually carried it forward to today. Huh? He updates it every year. He has not found a single incident,

6 (2m 17s):
Oh my goodness.

7 (2m 18s):
A single confirmed incident of either a child's death or injury related to tainted candy.

6 (2m 28s):
Our someone in the know is w Scott Poole. He teaches about the history of horror at the College of Charleston.

7 (2m 35s):
Now, one can never say, you know, with 100% accuracy, it never happened one single time.

6 (2m 43s):
Sure.

7 (2m 44s):
But we can say that despite the huge amount of press attention that's been given to it, that law enforcement has given to it, that politicians have given to it, and religious leaders. Not a single incident from 1958 until 2022 has occurred.

6 (3m 7s):
But there was one case that happened a month before Halloween that terrified the nation,

7 (3m 13s):
The 1982 Tylenol murders, right at the beginning of the eighties. At a moment when probably the panic over Halloween candy and local communities was at its height, added to the idea that there were dangerous strangers out there seeking to harm your children. Even though it was an unrelated issue, it wasn't specifically directed toward children. It didn't take place at Halloween.

9 (3m 44s):
Even if you've never heard of these murders, you see the, the effects of these murders every time you go into a store, because these led to the safety seals that we see in the tamper-proof packaging that we see on everything from salad dressing to Tylenol today. My name is Stacey St. Clair, and I'm reporter with the Chicago Tribune, and along with my colleague Christie Gutowski, we have been digging into the Tylenol murders in advance of the 40th anniversary this year.

6 (4m 17s):
And though this really didn't have anything to do with Halloween, it did have a serious impact on Halloweens across the country that year. Is that right?

9 (4m 25s):
That's right. The murders took place in late September of 1982, and they sent the country into a panic.

10 (4m 34s):
Are they serial? Somebody, Somebody's crazy has to be.

11 (4m 40s):
I think what bothers me more than just this incident is if it can happen with this, what else can it happen? That's, that's the surprising, really, really gives you the, the creeps.

9 (4m 51s):
We talked to 150 people as part of the project, and I would say 50% of them talked about Halloween and how Halloween loomed so heavily over this sort of national crisis, because people didn't know where the killer intended to strike next. And so you saw it in communities canceling Halloween.

12 (5m 16s):
If you're concerned about safety this Halloween, instead of trick or treating, consider having a party at home. If you do decide to send your kids out, keep these tips in mind.

6 (5m 26s):
Well, I wanna ask you more about that later, but walk us through what happened 40 years ago in Chicago.

9 (5m 33s):
So on September 29th, 1982, seven people in the Chicago area took Tylenol that had been laced with cyanide acetaminophen that was in the capsules was poured out, and potassium cyanide was put in its place and then put on the store shelves. Hmm. And there was nothing about the way the capsules looked or the bottles looked that could have warned people about what was inside. And each capsule contained at least three times the minimum dosage to kill somebody.

9 (6m 13s):
So the, once the people swallowed it, they didn't have a chance of survival. Even if the doctors knew what they had had ingested, there was no chance of saving them. It is a violent, horrific death.

6 (6m 26s):
Give us a sense of the seven people who died.

9 (6m 29s):
So the, the seven people include a 12 year old girl named Mary Kellerman, Two young mothers, Mary Sue McFarland and Mary Reiner. Mary Reiner had just given birth to her fourth baby less than a week earlier, and was taking Tylenol per her doctor's orders. During her recovery, there was a flight attendant named Paula Prince, who was the last person found, and then there was three members of the same family. And they were the key for medical investigators to figuring out what was killing young, healthy people so randomly. And what happened was a, a man named Adam, Janice, a a young father, was home from work.

9 (7m 14s):
He took some Tylenol, his wife found him unresponsive and his family gathered at the hospital to hear what happened and try to figure out, you know, what to do next. So they get the tragic news about Adam, they go back to Adam's house and start planning a funeral. And Adam's brother and his new sister-in-law had headaches. Oh no. From just the days grieving. So they went into the bathroom and they took some Tylenol and both died.

6 (7m 47s):
How much of a panic did this stir up in the country? I mean, this was a, a thing that was happening in Chicago, but when you say someone's put cyanide in Tylenol pills, I imagine people were probably freaking out all over the world if this story made it that far.

9 (8m 2s):
Yeah. People did freak out all over the world when it first happened. Johnson Johnson, on the first day recalled about 170,000 bottles of Tylenol

13 (8m 13s):
Here in Chicago. What started as a series of mysterious unrelated doves 48 hours ago, as resulted in the biggest drug warning in US history

9 (8m 22s):
A few days later under, you know, pressure from law enforcement, they recalled 31 million bottles.

6 (8m 29s):
Oh my goodness.

9 (8m 30s):
What? Yeah.

6 (8m 32s):
Is that all the Tylenol?

9 (8m 34s):
That It's all the Tylenol capsules, Yeah. Wow. It was the first time that a product had ever been recalled on a widespread national level like that. Huh? It was news all over the world. It's widely regarded as an early act of domestic terrorism. That wasn't even a word people used or knew at the time, but it's so peer of security that people felt around their families that it shockwaves were felt everywhere, including Halloween.

6 (9m 7s):
Yeah. Tell me more about how this affected Halloween in 19 82, 1

9 (9m 14s):
Of the people we talked to was Chuck Kramer. And, and he was the, the fire lieutenant who, who first identified that, hey, these aren't heart attacks at the Janus house. Like this is something bigger. He talked about all the different ways these deaths change the way we live. And he told us, You're gonna hear a lot about how this impacted Halloween.

15 (9m 36s):
Halloween's changed forever. I prior to 1982, I don't think the parents went through the, the candy. They just let the kids take it. But today, parents are going through, That's not wrapped, that's not wrapped, that's not good. You know, I'm sure they do.

9 (9m 49s):
Communities were canceling Halloween, encouraging their children not to go out. And another we person we spoke with, his name is Sam Adam Jr. And he's a prominent defense attorney here in Chicago who studied the

14 (10m 3s):
Case had just turned 10. And there were rumors at the time and had just come out that people were putting razor blades. I remember this so vividly in apples. And so parents were really, really on this idea of people doing crazy things. At Halloween time,

9 (10m 18s):
His parents didn't want 'em to go out because they were so scared.

14 (10m 21s):
I have vivid memories of not going trick or treating that year. We were not allowed to go cause we didn't know what was gonna happen.

9 (10m 27s):
People stopped giving apples out. You know, you used to go trick or treating and you could get apples and home bake cookies and popcorn balls, and people would just wrap them in their own saran wrap and, and that sort of put an end to that.

13 (10m 44s):
On the surface trick or treating in Virginia Beach tonight seemed normal, but underneath the outfits and masquerades and even more within the parents, there was an underlying tension.

16 (10m 53s):
Now I really didn't wanna take the children out, and my daughter told me that she'd rather just, just go trick or treat and then throw everything away. That's really what she wanted to do, just to go out.

9 (11m 4s):
I think it also was the birth of coupons being given out. People talked about the McDonald's coupons that were given out that year, because that seems so much safer than the typical candy bar.

13 (11m 18s):
Wally sale and his wife were giving away coupons for ice cream at a local Baskin Robins.

17 (11m 23s):
But we've been relying mainly on these because this way the children and the parents know that what they're gonna get is a good deal and they're not to worry about having to check it and deal with it and so forth and so

9 (11m 31s):
On. It made you second guess everything.

15 (11m 35s):
We're

6 (11m 36s):
Gonna talk more about the sort of annual Halloween panic later in the show, but do you think the Tylenol murders had a lasting impact on, on people's, you know, paranoia, hysteria every October 31st?

9 (11m 51s):
I think it absolutely did. You know, the Chicago Tribune articles from the time talk about this novel idea of set trick or treating hours and this novel idea of like going trick or treating at the mall,

13 (12m 5s):
Thanks to the scare created by Tylenol Poisonings and the barrage of copycat criminals, alternatives to trick or treating, propped up instantly. Malls in Virginia Beach offered trick or treating at their stores with all the candy pre-checked,

9 (12m 17s):
And those are commonplace today. Those are sort of standard things we do to ensure safety or, or make us feel safer. Yeah. And here we are still doing it, you know, 40 years later, all of that was introduced as part of the Tylenol scare.

6 (12m 35s):
Did they ever catch whoever perpetrated these murders? Whoever put cyanide in Tylenol pills?

9 (12m 42s):
Nobody has ever been arrested or charged with the Tylenol murders. And as part of our investigation, we, we did find that police investigators have brought a case to prosecutors saying they have a circumstantial chargeable case against a longtime suspect. And now it's in prosecutor's hands as to whether they're going to charge the case or not. Huh?

6 (13m 13s):
Are you allowed to say who the suspect is?

9 (13m 16s):
Yeah. The longtime suspect is James Lewis. He was arrested and convicted of sending an attempted extortion letter to Johnson Johnson. He said he had spent about $50 so far in poisoning the capsules. And you know, he said he would stop the killing if they wired a million dollars to a bank account in Chicago that belonged to his wife's ex-boss. And he claims he sent the letter because he was upset with his wife's boss for her last paycheck bouncing. And he wanted to call law enforcement's attention to what he thought was that man's bad business dealings.

6 (14m 1s):
It seems pretty suspicious. How is that not enough to, to prosecute this guy 40 years ago?

9 (14m 8s):
They've never been able to put him in Chicago or in one of the stores he had left Chicago about three weeks before the killings occurred.

6 (14m 20s):
Do you have any sense from your reporting on, on why this person may have wanted to kill innocent people, families, children?

9 (14m 33s):
The working motive, according to documents we reviewed, is that the suspect's daughter had died in 1974 after a heart surgery in which sutures used to repair a heart defect tour. And those sutures were trademarked by Johnson and Johnson. Hmm. And investigators have told prosecutors they believe that was the motive behind. And records we reviewed said that was the motive behind the killings. I should say. We have tried several times to speak to James Lewis about this motive and about this allegation from police, and he has not responded.

6 (15m 21s):
Stacey St. Clair reported on the Tylenol murders with Christie Gutowski for the Chicago Tribune. And there's a podcast, it's called Unsealed the Tylenol Murders. You can find it right now wherever you listen to your podcasts. We're back with more today. Explained in a minute.

19 (15m 55s):
This is advertiser content brought to you by AbbVie.

20 (15m 59s):
We're always trying to understand how do we stop disease, right? Disease comes in, we try to stop it. That's how we practice medicine. An interesting thought would be, what if we actually didn't get disease? What if we prevented disease? Hi, my name is Howard Jacob, I'm a vice president at AbbVie. I had the Genomic Research Center and I also had our data integration across r and d.

19 (16m 26s):
Better medicine starts with better information. So Howard and AbbVie have been studying a collection of more than 1 million human genomes to advance our understanding of disease.

20 (16m 36s):
It's a large amount of data. Your DNA extended end to end from all of your hundred trillion cells would go to the sun and back 666.5 times.

19 (16m 47s):
All of that genetic information will have major implications for the future of healthcare. Helping doctors tailor treatment to every patient's needs.

20 (16m 55s):
For many genes, there are tests where you can actually say, Oh, this is the dose you should take. This is when you should take it, and this is why you're taking it. It opens the door for prescribing medications differently and at different doses for each individual,

19 (17m 9s):
Their work is already saving lives. But genetic researchers are far from satisfied.

20 (17m 14s):
I just know that we can do more. I know we can enable physicians to practice medicine better. I know we can enable patients to live healthier lives. I know we can develop better therapies and we just have to do it.

19 (17m 26s):
To learn more about how AbbVie is shaping the future of medicine, visit here now. Dot abb v i e cover story from New York Magazine is back. I'm Hannah Rosen, host of season two Seed Money. This season we have a story about a billionaire.

21 (17m 46s):
He's the most articulate, he's the most savvy, he's the most, he's very cunning

19 (17m 51s):
An exy.

0 (17m 52s):
This isn't an aberration that just happened, you know, a couple years ago. This is a pattern of

19 (17m 57s):
Behavior. Many, many women, it's

22 (17m 59s):
Almost like he's using all the women as a startup

19 (18m 3s):
Company. And so, so many lies. It

23 (18m 6s):
Happens once in everybody's life. And this guy is a master liar, master

21 (18m 11s):
Liar. If I can't stop him, I don't think anybody will be able to stop him. And

19 (18m 17s):
What did you think about yourself?

20 (18m 19s):
That I was the dumbest mother in the United States. He got me good

19 (18m 25s):
Cover story Season two seed money. Listen, wherever you get your podcasts,

6 (18m 42s):
It's today explained before we get to all the hysteria. Why do we even do Halloween?

7 (18m 47s):
It seems to have come to the United States and the middle of the 19th century, and that was largely from both Irish and Scottish immigrants.

6 (18m 59s):
Back to w Scott Poole, our historian of horror.

7 (19m 7s):
One of the kind of partial truths about Halloween is that it is based on a ancient Celtic festival called Sal Wayne spelled to look like Sam Hane, but pronounced Sal Wayne. That was kind of a harvest into summer festival. It's kind of hard to make those exact links. One thing that I think is important in the history of, of the holiday, particularly given the way it's come to be seen as a little bit dangerous and a little bit scary, and maybe even for some people a little demonic, is that it's really a Christian holiday. It's all how is Eve? It's the beginning of the celebration of All Saints and all Souls Day.

7 (19m 50s):
Where

6 (19m 50s):
Does the candy show up? As far as I remember from going to church as a kid, there was no candy involved.

7 (19m 58s):
Yeah. So that really begins as early as the 1920s. And the reason for that is in part because part of the history of Halloween is the, the trick coming before the traits in the 1920s Halloween was particularly in, in urban America, was all about pranking. And particularly interesting is that there was a little bit of a class struggle element to it. This was a time that working class kids kind of unleashed on middle class and upper middle class neighborhoods. Huh? The treats part in a way was to an attempt to, and a eventually successful attempt to really kind of normalize Halloween in a way to sort of sanitize it a little bit.

7 (20m 49s):
Hmm. And by the 1950s, the distribution of candy is, is especially popular.

6 (20m 54s):
So the treats were introduced to quell the

7 (20m 58s):
Tricks,

6 (20m 59s):
The tricks and the treats have become this source of hysteria. When exactly does that happen?

7 (21m 7s):
There seems to be something of a patient zero article that is the, the cause of this. There's an op-ed that many people did not seemingly distinguish from a, a news story, an op-ed that appeared in the New York Times, October 28th, 1970, that talked about the possibility that strangers could use Halloween to perform what came to be known as acts of Halloween sadism. Huh.

19 (21m 40s):
Those Halloween goodies that children collect this weekend on their rounds of trigger treating may bring them more horror than happiness.

7 (21m 48s):
You can go read the article today. It's really interesting. Take

19 (21m 52s):
For example, that plump red apple that junior gets from a kindly old woman down the block. It may have a razor blade inside the chocolate candy bar may be a laxative. The bubble gum may be sprinkled with lie, the popcorn balls may be coated with canford, the candy may turn out to be packets containing sleeping pills.

6 (22m 15s):
Were there legitimate reasons to be fearful? Well,

7 (22m 19s):
There were a couple of incidents in the early seventies, both of which are very, very complicated in the sense that they don't fit the story of Halloween sadism. That subsequently different people in American society have told they're not stories of stranger danger. They're actually stories of tragedies and violence within families. One is a, a particularly tragic a thing. There's a, a young five year old boy in Detroit. This is an important one because it comes just a few days after the time's oped.

7 (23m 2s):
And he died from ingesting heroin that his family claimed they had found in his basket of Halloween treats. What it turned out to be is that it had nothing to do with Halloween candy at all. The child had gotten into a uncle's stash of heroin. Oh. That ingested it. And so the family, in kind of an effort to cover this up, had actually sprinkled heroin themselves on the Halloween candy.

6 (23m 36s):
Oh my goodness.

7 (23m 37s):
Yeah. Right.

6 (23m 38s):
Okay. So that's one incident. Were there, were there any others?

7 (23m 41s):
There was another that was even more famous in 1974 in, in Texas, in Houston, Texas. Ronald Clark O'Brien took out in September of that year. He took out an insurance policy on his two children. Huh. And in a really horrific incident on Halloween night, and we assume he was aware of these fears of poison candy on Halloween night, he plays cyanide in their pixie sticks.

6 (24m 14s):
Oh my

7 (24m 15s):
Goodness. Yeah. It's awful. His son Timothy ate it died. Ronald Clark O'Brien became known as the Candyman Killer. And he was convicted of this crime and, and actually executed in 1984. But this was, again, a, an incident of domestic violence, not stranger danger. The very real violence that children and young people facing in American society is much more likely to occur at home than it is from the scary spooky stranger.

6 (24m 49s):
So where does this hysteria come from every year, Scott? Is it, is it purely the, the Candyman killer and, and Uncle Heroin in Detroit?

7 (24m 58s):
You know, I'm completely empathetic to some of the fear. You know, people understandably worry about their children. Now that concern has been weaponized really in three different ways. First, it absolutely fires a very powerful media cycle.

24 (25m 22s):
Crystal police are asking parents to carefully check their children's Halloween

25 (25m 27s):
Candy. Now, the warning comes after several sharp objects were found in trick or treat bags, including at least two cases in crystal.

7 (25m 34s):
And one of the things I've noticed in my years of following this is that particularly on local news outlets, there's significant coverage of the, and let me underscore the possibility that this could happen.

26 (25m 55s):
This is every parent's worst nightmare as Halloween fast approaches.

7 (25m 59s):
I think secondly though, that comes in part from a willingness on the part of local law enforcement to give some credence to these claims. Hmm. You know, third, and, and finally I think that the timing of these fears was interesting. In the seventies and the eighties, you've

27 (26m 21s):
Probably heard of kids being hurt, kidnapped, or even killed. You've seen it on the news or read about it in the papers. It doesn't happen that often, but it does happen

7 (26m 32s):
Like our own time. This is a very anxious period in American history. This is post-Watergate. This is post-Vietnam War. This is the age of rising concern. Actually another panic that was a bit misplaced over the, the fear of serial killers everywhere. And both politicians and religious leaders really played these fears up.

28 (26m 58s):
Our laws represent the collective moral voice of a free society. And right now, that voice is crying out to protect our children and keep them safe.

7 (27m 8s):
One notable thing about the 1980s is that it's the time of the emergence of the religious right, specifically in the form of the organization, the moral majority. This group had particular concerns about Halloween itself because many evangelicals who belong to that movement deemed it as demonic as challenging their religious values.

29 (27m 35s):
Halloween, that's the day when millions of children, adults will be dressing up as devils wishes and goblins to celebrate Satan.

7 (27m 47s):
And so I think that the warning that your child could be physically harmed on Halloween becomes weaponized by these groups.

6 (27m 58s):
But here we are in 2022 and the threat dejo is rainbow Fentanyl.

30 (28m 5s):
Moms and dads everywhere are really worried that their kids are gonna end up with one of these bags of nerd candies and then they'll find their child dead.

7 (28m 13s):
One of the issues is that fentanyl itself is quite dangerous.

23 (28m 17s):
Doctors say fentanyl is 50 times more dangerous than heroin and 100 times more lethal than morphine

7 (28m 25s):
And rainbow fentanyl, which is a real thing, is quite dangerous as well. However, what has happened really over the last several weeks, starting at the end of September, is there have been a number of authority figures, particularly on the right in relation to Halloween. But also it's become something of a bipartisan panic as well. Ron McDaniel, national chair of of the Republican Party, Kelly Loffler, former senator, Republican senator from Georgia, have all made a link between rainbow fentanyl, the possibility that kids are going to be poisoned on Halloween.

7 (29m 13s):
And the empirically false completely falsifiable idea that illegal immigrants are bringing rainbow fentanyl into the country.

31 (29m 25s):
I mean, just last month, 2000 pounds of fentanyl came across our border that that could kill 500 million people were coming into Halloween. Every mom in the country right now is worried. What if this gets into my kid's Halloween

30 (29m 35s):
Basket? You're talking about the rainbow,

31 (29m 36s):
The rainbow fentanyl. What if my, my teenager gets this?

7 (29m 40s):
And it's really stoking fears right before the midterms. And I think this has become so significant that even Senate majority leader, Chuck Schumer, democrat of New York, came out and said, This is a real concern.

32 (29m 56s):
This is a picture of real fentanyl. These are sweet talks. And if you opened up this little container of sweet Tarts, it would look about the same.

7 (30m 6s):
I think that many on the right have found a particularly powerful narrative that combines some very old fears with religious concerns, with a very real concern over rainbow fentanyl. But

6 (30m 23s):
There is no real fear here that, that some maniacal drug dealer or some undocumented immigrant is gonna be giving your kids free fentanyl this Halloween.

7 (30m 34s):
Well, we know from a study done by the Cato Institute that over about a four year period, fentanyl that has been seized by American customs has overwhelmingly been American citizens or people in the country legally not this fear of illegal immigrants. Hmm. There's also just kind of a logical, practical side of this. The notion that cartels have come up with the idea of sneaking fentanyl into the country and then they're gonna give it away, obviously makes no sense at all.

7 (31m 13s):
Right? I mean, say what you will about cartels. They generally have a pretty good business plan and that's a terrible one. Right? Just, Yeah. And there's of course all sorts of risk. I mean, this goes back to, you know, for example, the panic a couple of years ago about marijuana and, and gummy bears.

25 (31m 32s):
Marijuana edibles can easily be mistaken for regular candy. The bright and colorful packaging appealing to kids.

7 (31m 38s):
There's all kinds of risks associated with attempting to market drugs specifically to children. Yeah. Why attempt to do that? Right. There's no gain in it for the criminals that are actually, you know, bringing illegal drugs into the country. We are, as a culture, and particularly in 2022, just like we were in 1975, we are nervous and understandably nervous about a lot of things. And so panics like this give some of us this really, really simple narrative about good versus evil, that something can be done about.

7 (32m 24s):
What I would hope is that people would take a step back and say, you know, do we really need these kinds of, of stories? I mean, don't they hurt our culture? Don't they ratchet up the anxiety? Don't they cause us to be afraid of our, our neighbor and our neighbor neighbors, not just in our next door neighbor, but in the biggest sense of just other human beings and, and other cultures and other subcultures.

0 (32m 51s):
W Scott Pool teaches history at the College of Charleston in South Carolina, and he writes books, his latest has called Dark Carnivals, Modern Horror, and the Origins of American Empire. Our program today was produced by Hovish High Artsy. He had help from Matthew Colette, Laura Bullard, a theme the stream, Sean Ram firm and Jillian Weinberger, who's off to do scary things in a scary new place. Goodbye, Jillian. We miss you.

0 (33m 35s):
Happy Halloween from today. Explain they.