4 (0s):
It's Wednesday, April 29th, 2020 and the FDA is ready to approve a treatment. I'm Sean Rama's for him in this is your coronavirus update from today explained the Food and Drug Administration is planning to announce REM days of ear as an emergency covid-19 treatment a hot off. The presses study says that it's sped up the recovery time of patients with the virus. The Brad Pitt of infectious disease doctors Anthony falchi cautioned that the study still needs to be peer reviewed. You'd But he sounded optimistic President Trump was also optimistic, but it was just last week. He sounded optimistic about household disinfectant. So, please temper your expectations people. Just a reminder that REM does severe is not a vaccine.

4 (42s):
It doesn't prevent covid-19. It's a treatment for people who have covid-19 a vaccine still looks a ways away but good news is good news, right? And it looks like it couldn't come a moment too soon in the first quarter of 2020 United States economy contracted by nearly five percent. That's the most since the financial crisis of 2008 half. The country says that someone in their household has either lost a job or has had their hours reduced because of this coronavirus according to a new Marist poll that same survey found that an overwhelming number of Americans do not think schools restaurants or Sports should be coming back until we have more testing. The governor of Texas said on Monday that movie theaters will be able to open as soon as this Friday according to the LA Times the owner of the austin-based Alamo Drafthouse theater chain said, thanks, but no thanks.

4 (1m 32s):
The company wants more time to create new procedures that will keep employees and guests safe. You can of course support your favorite movie theaters by buying gift cards and you can support the movies themselves by paying to stream them the Academy Awards just changed its rules because of the pandemic for the first time ever movies that had theatrical release. Dates, but are now just streaming are eligible for that Oscar gold the Academy's calling it a temporary exception. They like movies going to the movie theaters. But what about podcasts? I'd like to ask the academy JK Rowling podcast don't win Oscars, but they do win Webbie's today explain this up for one right now at Webby Awards.com. I don't typically endorse popularity contest but we're up against Ben Shapiro's podcast.

4 (2m 17s):
So this is a rare opportunity for us to beat Ben Shapiro, which it turns out. I do endorse so go to the Webby Awards.com and vote for today explained. Okay. Thank you for your vote. Beat Ben Shapiro. I don't know who needs to hear this but rise about cam is an all-in-one system that makes online training easy to create enjoyable to take and simple to manage. You can create training from scratch or customized hundreds of pre-built lessons templates and Sample courses to build training even faster Learners love rise because training is interactive and beautiful-looking see what you will love on Rise by starting a 30 day trial at rise.

4 (3m 2s):
cam /

2 (3m 3s):
today

4 (3m 20s):
about a month and a half ago when this pandemic was just starting to heat up in the United States. We reached out to all of our listeners and said let us know what your questions are and many of you got back in touch and said what's up with the nation's food supply this thing that we never have to worry about this thing that the government handles for us, but all of a sudden, you know, you were worried about so we reached out to people in the know and they said don't worry about it. The nation's food supply is fine, but a month and a half in now, we have a better idea of what this pandemic Is doing to the nation's food and while there still might be enough food. What we know is that farmers have way too much of it food banks don't have nearly enough and food workers are getting sick halina.

4 (4m 5s):
Bottom Miller evich has been covering all the angles for Politico.

1 (4m 9s):
You know, I think we're seeing an unprecedented level of disruption mean there is plenty of food. We live in an age Asian of Plenty we have plenty of calories. We have plenty to eat in this country, but the distribution of food right now is so fundamentally shaken by all of the sudden Americans really not eating in restaurants not eating on cruise ships not eating in cafeterias and the supply chain is really struggling to adapt and that's why we're seeing really I think waste at an unprecedented scale. We're seeing crops being destroyed

4 (4m 46s):
so far we glossed over 4 million pounds. Of green beans over 5 million pounds of cabbage and I have a farmer friend that left 10 million pounds of tomatoes

1 (4m 58s):
milk being

4 (4m 59s):
dumped. It's such a waste of such a trauma for the Dairy Farmer that has worked so hard

1 (5m 4s):
he'll meat processing plants are going down. Now the plant that supplies five percent of our nation's entire pork Supply is closed indefinitely

4 (5m 12s):
and today Smithfield announced two more closures

1 (5m 15s):
joining other companies taking similar measures. We've really not seen anything like like this in our

4 (5m 21s):
lifetimes so the issue here isn't about whether or not people want the food

1 (5m 27s):
it's more that we can't get that food from point A to point B so I think cabbage is a really good example I just did a story that featured a farmer that was we call it disking right so they're grinding their crop into the ground that's what they call it idisk this cropped into the ground he was discing hundreds of Acres of cabbage into his fields and you think why like why can't we just sell all that cabbage at the grocery store well that cabbage is generally used for the coleslaw at restaurant chains like KFC so are Americans going to eat just as much cabbage as they would if they were going to give seeing getting fried chicken and getting their side of cabbage no they're not like the demand of cabbage is fundamentally different in a world in which you're not going to places like KFC so it's just a complete reordering of the food supply it's not that that were necessarily Swimming lessons that were consuming different foods all of a sudden we're going and we're buying pasta and canned foods at a level that we were not before this pandemic.

1 (6m 33s):
So you're seeing certain products get cleared out of grocery stores, but actually there's plenty of produce in most grocery stores and that is largely because of his big disruption as some of the produce can get redirected to retail, but the volumes are just so incredible that we don't have a system set up to redistribute it

4 (6m 51s):
but it isn't just Cabbage, right? I mean I've been reading about milk and eggs, even though when I go to the grocery store, it seems like milk and eggs are often the first things that they're sold out of after toilet paper. So why are Dairy Farmers having issues right

1 (7m 6s):
now? It's incredibly tragic in some ways because Dairy Farmers have struggled with low prices for so long, you know, so many have gone out of business and now we're in a situation where people are demanding milk at the grocery store and like you said you go and they're either limited how much you can Or they're out and meanwhile, they're dumping I think a really good way to wrap your head around what's happening is to think about School meals. So I think about 7% of all the fluid milk in the country usually goes to school lunches and breakfasts. So there in those little curtains and so if all this milk is going into those little curtains every day for millions of school children and all of a sudden you disrupt that or you know, maybe the kids are taking more of a another type of food and not as much milk.

1 (7m 52s):
You then have these plants that are used to produce thing for these very specific Food Service cartons, all of a sudden they don't have gallon, you know containers. They don't have their whole production line set up to do that. So it's really hard to just flip that switch to all of the sudden have, you know, all the processing you need to fulfill that demand and make it all work and I think we're really seeing that there's a lot of places in the food supply that are pretty inflexible. I mean, There is plenty of milk and the fact that you would have outages at the grocery store. It's just it mind-boggling.

4 (8m 28s):
Hmm. So what do you do with all that

1 (8m 30s):
milk third? I mean, they're dumping it on on fields and manure lagoons. It's a cheese plant isn't able to process all of the raw milk in their area. I mean, they really don't have a choice. They may be all their tanks are full. They can't store it. It's incredibly tragic and I can tell you right now Dairy Farmers hate the idea of Being milk, they work so hard day in and day out to produce that they're very proud of what they do. It's one of the things that's really really tough on farmers of all kind. They do not like to see the fruits of their labor wasted like

4 (9m 5s):
this and the same is happening

1 (9m 7s):
for eggs. Yeah. So eggs, you know, if you're if you're a plant that mostly processes liquid eggs for Food Service, like think about when you go to a hotel and you see those big trays of scrambled eggs, you know, those usually come from liquid eggs. The companies they're called breaker facilities. So that facility is not set up to just package eggs in cartons that were used to buying and reconfiguring everything. It does overnight. I actually read the other day. I guess there is actually a shortage of egg cartons for packing eggs. So the logistics of all this are truly complex and I think we're really seeing again the limits of how Nimble this food supply can be In a crisis like this

4 (9m 55s):
and so beyond Dairy and vegetables. What's up with meat? I mean, I don't know if everyone saw this story, but there was certainly this this article circulating around that suggested that the nation has a huge surplus of chicken wings because March Madness didn't happen and a lot of chicken wings were ready to go for all of the bars and restaurants where people would be watching basketball. Is that true?

1 (10m 22s):
You know, I'm not sure exactly about chicken wings, but think about it again in terms of how consumption is changing. Right? So people might be going to the store and buying chicken breasts which are easier to prepare at home. But most people are not going to consume as many chicken wings if someone else is not preparing them for them. So I would not be surprised at all. If that were the case. We just shifted our consumption so quickly there really isn't another time in history where you could point to The entire country changing its consumption on a dime but we throw around the word unprecedented a lot but it really is unprecedented. The meat system is really showing.

1 (11m 4s):
I think some of the consequences also of concentration. So it is become increasingly concentrated with a few companies processing large section or large percentage of the pork beef and chicken Supply. And so when you have these very high Volume meet plants, they're extremely efficient. Like they probably brought the cost of meat down. But if something goes wrong say a coronavirus outbreak among its workers that is incredibly destructive. I mean we've seen one Smithfield plant go down that took out five percent of the pork processing capacity and I think pork processing right now because of coronavirus outbreaks is down the it's somewhere between a you know, A fifth or a quarter of all pork broth.

1 (11m 52s):
Thing is down. I mean that's an incredible amount of disruption to the meat Supply and we do have meet, you know, we have pretty big frozen stores of meat in this country. But a lot of economists are starting to predict that the meat shortages could very well be around the corner because this is so

4 (12m 9s):
disruptive. Of course, the president invoked the defense production act yesterday in just signed this executive order saying that meat packing plants are critical infrastructure and they should remain open. Is the president concerned about the safety of the people who work in these plants?

1 (12m 29s):
I think unions and worker advocacy groups sync not right. They are very concerned about what this executive order will mean for the workers on the front lines of these meat processing plants mean these are already physically demanding grueling jobs. They Are already thankless and many of these workers are afraid to go to work because they're working in very close quarters. I mean, they can be just a few feet away from each other shoulder to shoulder. It's very easy for you to process meat in that way.

1 (13m 10s):
It's very difficult for you to practice social distancing and Ami plant. So there is a lot of criticism about the executive order, you know, the president and his supporters certainly feel that This is critical infrastructure. And the sad part about when you close meet plants. It's not like all the animals can just wait this whole system is built around keeping animals flowing through the processing line. So when you close a Meat Plant the pigs that let's say are going to go get processed. They're the right size. You cannot just wait for weeks and weeks and keep feeding them. It's expensive.

1 (13m 50s):
They'll get too big. They're you know, there's just a million reasons. So you can't do that and all of the small pigs, you're raising the piglets the whole system then gets backed up all the way through and so that's why you now have Farmers looking at having to euthanize potentially hundreds of thousands of animals because they can't process them on time. So it's this really efficient system. We have like it's efficient in terms of we have very inexpensive meat in this country, but I think we're starting to see again the vulnerabilities in the system. And workers are really at the front lines of that because without them you can't keep these plants operating. So you have this tension, I think unfairly between you know, keeping the lines open for meat processing and the humans at the front of that who make it possible

4 (14m 39s):
and I guess in addition to the tragedy that is workers in these plants are dying are getting covid-19 are getting sick. Is the tragedy that potentially we're going to be euthanizing animals were dumping milk where we're breaking eggs were burying onions and destroying disking cabbage when there are lines wrapping around food banks and grocery stores that are giving away free food across the country.

1 (15m 10s):
Yeah. I think the disconnect is stunning to see, you know, some of these lines for food bank people. Wait in their cars for hours

4 (15m 22s):
good thing gas is

1 (15m 23s):
cheap right now. Honestly, like people are having to line up for miles and some cases. There's incredible aerial footage from I think it's San Antonio of 10,000 cars waiting to get

4 (15m 33s):
food. Nobody likes it when your kids ask what's for dinner and you're not sure what to tell them. It's not easy to ask for help and we try to provide for her own family

1 (15m 46s):
and a huge portion of those people are newly unemployed. I've never been to a food bank. So we're seeing I think a stress on that system. It's heartbreaking to watch. I think it's heartbreaking for food banks. It's heartbreaking for the people who are waiting in those lines. It's heartbreaking for farmers and what it seems like we're lacking is a real sense of urgency and Leadership and creativity to work on this

2 (16m 10s):
problem.

4 (16m 21s):
More with Helena after a quick break. You know when you're talking to your friend about like how real you feel about this coronavirus situation and then you can kind of see that your friend is actually not looking at the phone but looking down below playing Animal Crossing on the switch. If you want a better experience about your feelings and you know communicating them to another human being you might want to try better help better help offers licensed professional counselors who want to help you and Who want to listen you can connect with the counselor in a safe and private online environment and anything you share is confidential to get started.

4 (17m 9s):
You just fill out a questionnaire to help assess your needs and get matched with the counselor in less than 24 hours. And after that you can easily schedule video or phone sessions or exchange a whole lot of messages and ain't that the name of the game so get professional help when you want wherever you are better help is Affordable and right now listeners get 10% off your first month with the discount code explained go to better help.com explained I told you a little bit about rise at the top of the show. I'm going to tell you a little bit more about it right now. If you need to train people quickly online, especially considering, you know, maybe you can't go train people face-to-face right now.

4 (17m 56s):
You can go to rise.com and check out their service. It's an all-in-one system that makes online training pretty easy to create and enjoyable to do and And simple to manage with rise anyone can easily create guides and courses and other training content. You can start from scratch or customized hundreds of pre-built lessons and helpful course templates and gorgeous even sample courses to build your your trains even faster in your learner's will love it because it looks good and it's interactive and it's engaging your managers will like it because it's fast and easy to create and distribute, see what You will like about Rise by starting a 30 day free trial right now at rise.com / today.

1 (18m 50s):
Alina let's talk about

4 (18m 51s):
some of the solutions here. The president is clearly concerned about the nation's supply of meat, but that's just one part of a growing problem. It doesn't appear. He's managing very well.

1 (19m 1s):
I think everyone agrees. There's a lot more that the government could be doing and could have done a lot more quickly. One of the things on the Meat Plant side is they could have been more aggressive about issuing guidance or even mandating some of these safety protocols in the Plants, we already have Federal meat inspectors in all these plans to do food safety, you know could they have been leveraged immediately to try to do more social distancing and sanitation and hand-washing between worker. I mean, you know, there are many things that could have been done more quickly on the food bank side. USDA could be relaxing a lot of its red tape around purchasing food and moving it more quickly.

1 (19m 44s):
You know when you have food that is only going To last a short amount of time produce and you know milk depending on how pasteurize it is, you know, they don't last forever. They need to move quickly. What are some of the other creative things we could be doing? There's actually a bill I saw I think it just dropped last night to try to expand food stamp benefits so that people could use them at restaurants may be temporarily interestingly actually in Washington DC. I'm buying a lot of my groceries from a restaurant because they have no shortages of eggs. They No shortages of toilet paper because those Supply chains are still fully intact.

4 (20m 21s):
What is the USDA doing?

1 (20m 24s):
So right now they are trying to set up a fresh box program, which is going to spend a hundred million dollars a month on produce a hundred million dollars a month on Dairy a hundred million dollars a month on some meat products and it's going to put together these mixed boxes of perishable and also precooked meat items and they're going to get them to food banks. The earliest those are going to start shipping to food banks is May 15th. So one of the things I pointed out in my story is that is, you know, two months from when this first disruption happened at a national scale. So not super quick. There's also a lot of concern that it's not big enough.

1 (21m 5s):
I mean a hundred million dollars a month for produce. For example, they estimate the produce Industries missing out on a billion dollars a week the California industry estimates. They're going to be Using more than a billion dollars a month. So they all are glad USDA is going to buy a hundred million dollars to produce. But again, it just puts it into perspective of how big the disruption and the losses right now. There are farmers in California that are turning romaine lettuce into their soil. They don't have anywhere to sell it and again with this increase in unemployment and these Demand on food banks the fact that we're still wasting so much fresh food is just it's just gut-wrenching on every

4 (21m 47s):
level that one just seems so obvious like romaine lettuce people would eat that lettuce if you just put it on a truck and drove it to a food bank did no one think of a way to do that. This is

1 (21m 57s):
America. Yeah, I know in California. They do have a system set up at the state level to connect, you know Surplus produce with state food banks, but you have to realize that California is supplying the whole country with fruits and vegetables. That means that it's very difficult for your local food banks to That kind of scale which I think again points to the need for having a really strong Federal response to this because the distribution is at such a scale that you can't just fix it locally. There's just too much lettuce for you know, the food banks in California to absorb. You would really need to be connecting the dots across the country.

4 (22m 39s):
So does this come down on USDA and the Trump Administration for not connecting the dots

1 (22m 43s):
sooner? I think there's a lot of criticism. directed at them for not moving more quickly, you know, I think a free market purest would say, you know the markets going to fix this and in some ways they are right in that the market will fix this it will destroy enough Supply to stabilize prices, but I think the question is at what

4 (23m 7s):
cost beyond what the USDA is proposing now are their ideas that farmers and and who knows the people who running food banks want them to

1 (23m 16s):
Consider that they're not everyone wants them to think bigger, right? They want them to spend more. They want them to be more aggressive. They want them to move more quickly, but there are some other interesting ideas. I think USD is not considering and really hasn't been creative and thinking outside the box one interesting idea that did not make my story came from agriculture secretary Tom vilsack. He served under the Obama Administration and he said, you know, why don't we use stadiums? They have all this unused cold. Storage where they would normally be, you know, storing the food for concessions, you know can't we move some of this surplus of perishable food to places like that and have people come pick up.

1 (23m 57s):
You know, they have massive parking lots. Could we get volunteers? Like there are probably other ways to connect the dots between, you know, this massive Surplus and the need that we are not even working on

4 (24m 13s):
do you think farmers will be made whole event? SLI by the USDA. I mean they already receive a lot of Federal Aid. Is it going to take years for them to be made whole after this crisis?

1 (24m 24s):
They've already received billions of dollars to respond to retaliatory tariffs and other disruptions from the trade Wars that we've been engaged in. So there's already stress on a lot of these Commodities and then going into this we are slated to spend about three billion dollars on food buys over the next several months and 16 days. Billion dollars on direct payments and almost everyone agrees. It's not nearly enough to compensate the losses that are going to be felt across producer. So the direct payments are capped at $250,000 per entity, but it is really expensive to grow these crops.

1 (25m 7s):
So if you are growing strawberries, you might be spending 30 thousand dollars an acre just to get those strawberries all the way to being ripe. It's Four thousand dollars an acre to grow cabbage its $10,000 an acre to grow tomatoes. So if you're going to lose millions of dollars on this season because of this massive disruption and then you're going to get a 250 thousand dollar check from USDA. That is a welcome help but it is not anywhere near making you whole and that is just a brutal place to be as an industry. And I don't think anyone thinks USDA is going to be able to make everyone whole from this.

4 (25m 43s):
And in the meantime, what about all the people who Who are hungry who are worried about how they're going to plan their next week of meals for their families? What do people most need in the meantime while farmers are destroying their crops and the Trump Administration in the USDA or just playing

1 (26m 1s):
catch-up. I think anything you can do to support your food banks, you know, they would say it is more as welcome, whether it's donations or food you have in your pantry. The other thing food banks actually really need right now is volunteers because Food Bank volunteers tend to be they Trend. Oh Our and those are the exact people that you know are being told to stay home. I think the the tragic news on the food waste front is that's going to continue for some time. The problem really I think is systemic though. So these really big food system problems are going to have to be addressed at a larger scale then, you know individuals supporting their food banks.

1 (26m 41s):
Hopefully more States will step up more leaders will step up to have Creative Solutions because I think it's going to take an all-hands-on-deck

2 (26m 48s):
approach

4 (26m 58s):
Helena bottom Miller evich writes about food and agriculture for Politico where you can find Oliver great reporting on this crisis. I'm Sean Rama's from this is today explained.