1 (3s):
1 74 members have recorded their board in favor of the resolution

2 (8s):
Over the weekend. Pakistan's prime minister, Imran Khan lost his job. The country's parliament held a vote of no confidence despite his fervent attempts to stop it

1 (18s):
As the boss, by daughter D on the total membership of the national assembly,

2 (23s):
The new prime minister

4 (26s):
Ma'am,

3 (30s):
The brother of a three time former prime minister of Pakistan, Nevada Sharif, and himself a three times former chief minister of Punjab

2 (40s):
<inaudible> and family connections. But the story of how he got into office and how Imran Khan was removed, there is intrigue. There are allegations of conspiracy, and there is a us president who may be should call once in awhile. I'm Noel king. That story is coming up on today. Explained If you want to get serious about your workout routine this year, here's an idea team up with a personal fitness coach and build your own custom workout on future. All levels of fitness are welcome. Future is an app that sets you up with a personal coach who will develop your routine and keep you accountable every single day.

2 (1m 20s):
Every month, you'll get unlimited training sessions and workouts with your own elite coach for the same cost as a single person training session, you can get started right now with 50% off your first three months at try future.com/explained again, that's try future.com/explained. Medea of cell is a fellow at the Brookings institution. She's been watching Pakistan carefully, like a lot of people because a little over a week ago, then prime minister Imran Khan gave a speech before a cheering crowd.

2 (2m 1s):
He was holding two microphones and he was speaking in earnest At one point, he used the words in English off the record,

6 (2m 16s):
Off the record, off the record <inaudible>

2 (2m 20s):
And then he took a folded piece of paper out of his breast pocket and he made an allegation What did he say?

3 (2m 33s):
Han is claiming that the us is part of a conspiracy to oust him that the U S wanted regime change in Pakistan. The letter he was waving around, he called it a threat letter, but the letter is really a diplomatic cable written by a former ambassador of Pakistan to the U S about his meeting with the assistant of state for south and central Asia. And the letter Han says was written on March 7th. The day before Pakistan to opposition parties filed a motion of no confidence against hon, but Han claims that the letter basically says that the U S relationship with Pakistan depends on whether Han stays in office or not.

3 (3m 27s):
If Han stays, the relationship will be bad, but if Han were to leave office and Han claims here that the vote of no confidence was referenced, the relationship would be good. Again,

2 (3m 40s):
Did anyone actually see the text that was written on this letter?

3 (3m 45s):
Pakistan's national security committee, basically the equivalent of the national security council has been shown a text of that letter, but that's, that's it opposition parties. The public have not seen that letter and Han claims it's because, you know, it's government protocol not to share these letters, but there are big questions about what the letter actually says.

2 (4m 10s):
This is quite a big deal. You have the then leader of a country saying that the United States wants him out of office and has conspired against him. What does the United States say in response to this allegation?

7 (4m 24s):
The prime minister of Pakistan accused the U S of working with the physician to remove him from power. You just said that today what's the white house reaction.

3 (4m 32s):
This spokesperson literally said there

8 (4m 34s):
Is absolutely no truth to that allegation.

2 (4m 36s):
Why was Imran Khan facing this crisis of confidence? What happened?

3 (4m 41s):
Essentially the opposition party say that Khan came into power because he was the favorite candidate of Pakistan's military, and that they helped him along in the election. And they've been calling for his Allister since 2018. The reason all of this gain traction is because Han had slowly, but increasingly. So in recent months lost the favor of Pakistan's military. And when that happens in Pakistan, that essentially means that, you know, a prime minister or a government's time can be really limited.

2 (5m 19s):
How did he come to be prime minister in the first place? What was the root of his popularity?

3 (5m 24s):
Well, and Ron hon is an, it was an extremely popular cricket star, Internationally renowned. He was the captain of Pakistan's cricket team who took Pakistan to a pretty amazing world cup victory in 1992. For cricket, crazy Pakistan. You know, he was really repaired He then went into philanthropy. You know, he formed a network of cancer hospitals named after his late mother that are considered to provide a very good care and free care for the poor, which is unusual.

3 (6m 13s):
Again, in, in, in Pakistan, he entered politics in the late 1990s, kind of refashioning himself from this international Playboy that he was to sort of a born again, religious politician,

10 (6m 28s):
Whether it's a cricket player, businessman, or lawyer or anything, it surely has to depend on the individual.

3 (6m 35s):
And in 2013, you know, his party became the third largest party in parliament. Before that power had always alternated between two major parties in Pakistan and Han's party was not significant

11 (6m 48s):
Since he first started as party focused on technique and soft 15 years ago, he has never been able to draw such large crowds.

3 (6m 56s):
In 2013, he became a significant force politically, and then became a politician and an opposition leader who really became a thorn in the side of Pakistan's major political parties, holding huge opposition rallies clamoring for the ouster of then prime minister Nevas Sharif, ironically it's Sharif's brother who has now replaced con

2 (7m 26s):
What were the promises he made when he was running for office? What did he say? He would do

3 (7m 30s):
Two major promises. One was to root out corruption.

13 (7m 37s):
I assure you that you do not need rocket science here in Pakistan. We only have to correct the system. We have to bring an honest team that is accountable to itself.

3 (7m 48s):
Khan has reeled against corruption, his entire career,

10 (7m 51s):
Despite four governments being dismissed on corruption charges. Only few people are held accountable. The rest who are non Crocs, get away with it, come back to fight another election

3 (8m 1s):
And against the two major political parties that have run Pakistan for much of the last few decades. And then to build an Islamic welfare state was his second.

10 (8m 14s):
The founding fathers of our country wanted Pakistan to be what was called an Islamic welfare state,

2 (8m 22s):
Islamic welfare state. What does that mean? Exactly?

3 (8m 24s):
Essentially what he means is, you know, he often looked to sort of Scandinavian countries to talk about, you know, their concept of a welfare state and then linked it to the initial days of Islamic rule in Saudi Arabia.

10 (8m 44s):
All the policies which we make in Pakistan are towards that end to make it enjoy human country, where the government takes responsibility of the weakest section of its society.

2 (8m 57s):
Okay. So I see why he might be very popular. He's a celebrity he's brought great honor to the country. And then he's saying we are also going to take care of people who need care. Did he keep his promises

3 (9m 10s):
By and large while there was progress on some of the promises he made, he was unable to deliver on all the expectations. He set up two of the three and a half years that he was in power were taken up by the pandemic. The pandemic is actually one of the places where Han and his government actually did well. Pakistan has not had the death rate of neighboring India, for instance, and of other countries with huge populations. Pakistan is a country of 220 million. And part of the reason is because Han said, look, we can't engage in a blanket lockdown.

3 (9m 50s):
The poor will not be able to survive. And so he engaged in what are called smart lockdowns, you know, essentially kept the country going while still shutting down key areas and key sectors, keeping the spread of the pandemic limited while not allowing the poor to starve essentially. So that's one, he also launched a health insurance scheme, started from one province, has spread to others. And while there are problems with its implementation, it's good in theory. But the big thing that Pakistan needs are not these sort of smaller piecemeal schemes, but, you know, institutional change, you know, figure out how to shore up.

3 (10m 40s):
You know, an ailing economy figured out how to control inflation to control unemployment Han's economic team was not able to do this. So ultimately it's his handling of the economy that made the common Pakistani really upset.

2 (10m 55s):
Okay. So some promises kept some, not a bad economy is bad for any leader that said Imran Khan was ousted through a legal parliamentary procedure. He was not ousted in a coup Pakistan has had coups before, and they are inevitably a sign of real instability in any country. The fact that he was taken out through a parliamentary procedure, is that a positive? Is that a good sign for this democracy?

3 (11m 26s):
It is. And that is essentially the reason he was taken out through a no-confidence vote becoming by the way, the first prime minister in Pakistan to be ousted from power through a no confidence vote. That being said, it's still part of a long history of Pakistani prime ministers, never lasting five years in office. No Pakistani prime minister has lasted five years in office and it's a parliamentary system, not one, not one and only two civilian governments in Pakistan have lasted full five-year terms and handed over power to the next civilian government.

2 (12m 8s):
A lot of the analysis about what's happening in Pakistan right now focuses not just on Imran Khan and on the man who will replace him, but also on Pakistan's military. And this, I think raises a question. If we have a democratic country that holds democratic elections, why does it matter what the military thinks about anything?

3 (12m 27s):
Right. I mean, I can totally understand why this is confusing. Essentially. This is part of a really long cycle and in Pakistan where prime ministers and civilian government don't complete their terms in office, precisely because they lose the support of, or they fall out with Pakistan's military in the past, it's been through sort of other means, right? Coups, in some instances, the president desolving parliament in others in this case, essentially what the militaries lack of support for PON meant was that the military had become extensibly neutral when it came to Pakistan's politics.

3 (13m 10s):
So it would drew its support from hon. It gave the space to the opposition. It let the opposition do what they wanted to do to Alliston.

2 (13m 23s):
You have a situation in which a week ago, the prime minister of the country whips out a piece of paper and says a vast international conspiracy is trying to take me down. He did this right before he faced a vote of no confidence, do ordinary citizens of Pakistan. Look at this gentleman and say, you are out of your mind. There is no vast international conspiracy. You didn't do good at your job.

3 (13m 46s):
Pakistan is incredibly polarized right now. So I will say that Han supporters look at at this and say, oh my God, what he's saying is totally right. This is what is happening. The other side, the opposition parties and their supporters are trying to play this down and arguing repeatedly that there, there is no international conspiracy, but Pakistan has a long history of blaming other countries for what happens in Pakistan and, you know, pointing fingers at the U S also pointing fingers at India for what's happening in Pakistan.

3 (14m 27s):
This really lands

2 (14m 29s):
Why though India makes sense long time rivalry there and also their neighboring countries. Why is the United States involved in this narrative?

3 (14m 38s):
It really sort of took hold starting in the 1980s, when the U S was involved in the region with the Soviet, I've gone jihad, the U S Pakistan, Saudi Arabia were involved in helping fund arm, train the Mujahideen to fight the Soviets. And what was the covert war for the U S and Pakistan? It was very much insight. And the U S left the region. Once the us left the region, Pakistan felt it had been abandoned. And, and so there's a blame of everything that went wrong in the nineties was because of us abandonment. Then the narrative that took hold after nine 11 was that Pakistan allied with the U S and the war on terror in helping the U S and Afghanistan and Pakistan saw the blow back of that in the form of terrorist attacks, which killed tens of thousands of Pakistanis in Pakistan, post nine 11 Han really seizes upon this narrative.

2 (16m 9s):
Everyday people rely on the internet for information that they need to make life decisions big and small, no matter what those people are searching for, they need the right information. But when they're searching for information about your business, are you sure they are finding what they need? Because if they can't find it from you, they will find it elsewhere. Yext puts you in control by consolidating and managing all of your businesses information to make it easy, to find everywhere on search engines, websites, apps, chatbots, and voice assistants. The Yext platform provides accurate timely answers to questions across the entire customer journey from discovery to support and beyond plus says Yext you'll gain rich insights about what your users are looking for.

2 (16m 56s):
That helps you create and deliver new and better content. Implementation is easy. And Yext says that businesses that use it drive more transactions, reduce the number of support tickets and deliver an overall better customer experience. Take control of your business information and make sure it's discoverable by everyone everywhere you need it to be, to learn more, go to yext.com. Support for today's show comes from Canva. Pro Canva pro is a platform that lets you create and share content in just a few clicks. You can choose from over thousands of templates that are easy to customize, or you can start from scratch.

2 (17m 39s):
Canvas pro has endless premium fonts along with photos and videos to add personality and edge to whatever you're designing. Canva pro also helps you stay organized the same page. And on top of team projects, no more misplaced files or tedious back and forth. They promise. Plus if you want to make designing with canvas, a team activity, you and your teammates can unlock all that Canva pro has to offer for just 1299 a month. You can design like a pro with Canva pro. Right now you can get a free 45 day extended trial when you use our promo code, just go to canva.me/explain to get a free 45 day extended trial.

2 (18m 19s):
That's C a N V a dot M E slash explained Canva dot EMI slash explained As we've learned the U S and Pakistan have a history, but back in December, Joe Biden invited Imran Khan along with a bunch of other world leaders to a summit for democracy, it was a whole deal, big names, a town hall for youth panels on protecting human rights and fighting corruption. China very explicitly not invited Russia, very explicitly, not invited Pakistan was invited, but Imran Han didn't go, which Medina Uppsala Brooking says might have something to do with the fact that

3 (19m 12s):
Joe Biden has not called Ron hon in no more than 14 months in office.

2 (19m 18s):
You know, who had been calling meanwhile

3 (19m 21s):
Putin, meanwhile called con three times since August and, you know, invited Han to visit Pakistan then felt it could not refuse that trip. The Russian invasion of Ukraine was imminent and Pakistan's trip was coming up many advised Pakistan's foreign office to cancel the trip. The foreign office felt it couldn't Han ended up being there. I'm sitting next to Putin as Putin launched his invasion of Ukraine.

15 (19m 51s):
Josh does president Putin met Pakistan's prime minister, Imran Khan in the Kremlin today. And this was the first face to face talks since the start of the military operation in Eastern Ukraine.

3 (20m 3s):
No doubt helping Putin in his optics, but hurting hon now, hon remained sort of studiously neutral on the Russian invasion of Ukraine after that. And even during his trip

16 (20m 15s):
In recent weeks, the prime minister lashed out at EU diplomats asking for public condemnation of Russia,

17 (20m 21s):
May your European union.

18 (20m 23s):
I asked these EU ambassadors. If they wrote a similar letter to India, our country's economy lost $100 billion. I asked, did you appreciate or acknowledge us? Are we your slaves that whatever you order, we must comply.

3 (20m 36s):
Pakistan's military. On the other hand, just about a week ago now, essentially called it an invasion of Ukraine, which Han hasn't done. It says

17 (20m 47s):
Invasion against Ukraine is very unfortunate. As thousands of people have been killed millions, bait refugees, and half of Ukraine

3 (20m 56s):
Adopting a strikingly different stance from hon,

2 (20m 59s):
We cannot be responsible geo politicians without now asking what does China think about all of this?

3 (21m 7s):
Pakistan has had an increasingly close, as I said, relationship with China. Pakistan is the home of China's flagship project and its belt and road initiative more than $62 billion in investments as part of the China-Pakistan economic corridor and Khan was in Beijing in the face of a Western boycott of the Olympics. Han was at the opening ceremony. So was Putin by the way, it's unclear how much Beijing is prevailing on Pakistan to stand by its side in remaining very neutral on the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

3 (21m 52s):
And Pakistan says that its relationships with the U S and with, with China are not zero-sum, but in some ways, Pakistan has had to choose a little bit between the U S and China.

2 (22m 6s):
Here's what you've told me. We have the former prime minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan, who is now been removed from office. He got paranoid at the U S at the same time that he appeared to be getting closer to Russia, which made the U S nervous, which made China happy, which made India nervous, which made Pakistan's military feel all sorts of conflicting things. Is it fair to say that this saga that is unfolding is reminiscent of the cold war era in which you have a country being torn between the United States and in this case, Russia and China,

3 (22m 46s):
I would say that Pakistan certainly has felt the tug from all sides here, but where this is manifesting is in terms of the political divisions. This is sewing in the country, rather than any outside influence affecting things in Pakistan. It is actually manifesting itself as a rift between the major players in Pakistan, the military and Han on foreign policy.

2 (23m 18s):
The next leader of Pakistan, we've got a guy here who has some family ties, who is a name, what does he need to do differently than Imran Khan?

3 (23m 27s):
Shahbaz Sharif comes into power on April 11th, 2022 with a maximum of a year that he can be in power before the next election, hon is going to make his life tough. They held massive rallies in Pakistan, all over the urban centers of, of the country.

20 (23m 54s):
The security is high after tens of thousands of people across the country and said, Collins, cool to protest against his removal from office.

3 (24m 2s):
So the kind of agitational street politics is going to occur. They are saying they don't accept this government. They're calling it a government of thieves referring to the corruption allegations faced by the Sharif's. And shahbaz Sharif is actually out on bail.

2 (24m 21s):
What is it? What is he out on bail for

3 (24m 23s):
Corruption charges? So Huns.

2 (24m 26s):
Wow. Wow. Wow. This country cannot win.

3 (24m 31s):
No, it cannot. So shahbaz Sharif has to contend with a very active con and a very mobilized opposition. At the same time, you will want to set things up so that the next election runs smoothly for he and his party, because ultimately this is not about coming into power right now. This is about coming into power and the next election for that next term. So he'll want to set that up. He has a formidable challenge in front of him, and that's on two dimensions the first and the biggest one is the economy.

3 (25m 11s):
And at the same time, he has to deal with this foreign conspiracy allegation. That Han is leveling at him. So if Sharif tries to improve relations, let's say with the U S you know, he can have this targe leveled at him that, you know, look, he wasn't part of this controversy of regime change. So he's going to have to tread pretty carefully, but if he was able to set some things right with the economy, he might actually have a good chance of going forward.

2 (25m 48s):
But after all of this in Pakistan's constitution, there are no term limits for a prime minister, which means there is nothing stopping Iran Han from making a humpback Today's show was produced by Halima shot, edited by Matthew Colette engineered by a few Shapiro. And fact-checked by Laura bowler. I'm Noel king it's today explained.