0 (1s):
For weeks, we've been hearing about the damage that flooding has done to Pakistan. And truthfully it's easy to get lost in the accounting 1500 plus people dead, 30 million plus displaced. 70% of crop staples destroyed. It's less easy to shake an image that the United nations agency for children UNICEF offers the water isn't receding. And it might not for months in some areas. So kids and their families are sleeping next to pools of stagnant water that is full of feces, fertilizer and disease. They're drinking that water to survive. Coming up on today, explained how an added twist to this year's rainy season caused this cataclysm and the case that Pakistan is making to rich countries, that they are owed help.

The OUTThinking Investor on Apple Podcasts (60s):
Welcome To season two of the outthinking investor, an award-winning podcast from PPG, we'll bring unique perspectives to the underappreciated challenges and overlooked opportunities. We'll speak with global thought leaders and PJI experts to understand the current trends and forces reshaping global finance subscribe to PJ's the outthinking investor today for these insights and more This podcast is intended solely for professional investor use has performance is not a guarantee of future results.

Paycor (1m 31s):
This episode is brought to you by Paycor, the HR and payroll software made for leaders. It's never been harder to recruit higher and engage workers. That's why HR leaders and frontline managers depend on Paycor for all things. People management from onboarding and performance reviews to compensation and benefits learn more at paycor.com/leaders

6 (1m 55s):
Listening.

1 (1m 59s):
My name Isha DKI. I am a journalist based in Pakistan, and I cover the environment technology and human rights. The Carra is a mountain range that stretches from Pakistan to India, to China. And the highest point of the carum is the K2, which is located in Pakistan. And it is the second highest mountain in the world. So a couple of years ago, I tracked up to the hopper glacier, which is in Pakistan's north it's in a place called Gil Pakistan. And it was an incredible site because it's been dropped silence, right? Because you're so far away from civilization.

1 (2m 41s):
And you can hear the sound of your own breath because it has such a high altitude. And then you can also hear this faint echo and that faint echo is the glacier slowly melting. It's not a drip, drip, drip, but it's an echo as if there's some sort of movement taking place. And what that means is that the volume of the glacier is decreasing. And if you go see it right now, it's basically a gray mass of rock ice and sludge because I've been landslides there recently.

1 (3m 21s):
And it's located right at the foothills of the CAO mountain range. And so the backdrop of the glacier is this majestic beautiful white mountain. And at the bottom, there's this massive mass of gray ice rock and sludge that slowly making its way south. So in the north, you've got an abundance of glaciers over 7,000 and in the south, you've got a desert, you've got a river that runs from the north of the country, right down to the south where it sinks into the Arabian sea. And so you've got deserts, you've got mountains, you've got glaciers, you've got Hills and valleys.

1 (4m 4s):
And so there's a lot to see, but that also makes Pakistan extremely vulnerable to climate change because when glaciers melt in the north, they increase the volume of water in this river, which then travels south inundates villages and towns, which also farm the country's bread basket,

0 (4m 40s):
Soha. This flooding as bad as it is, is not Pakistan's first experience with this kind of catastrophe, 2010, it was inundated. And the lesson that it took away to prepare for the next disaster was, was what

1 (4m 54s):
So lessons were learned after the 2010 floods, but they weren't implemented. And Pakistan continued along the bots of dam building and grand scale infrastructure projects. Instead of focusing on developing a robust early warning system or climate resilient housing for communities living in vulnerable areas, Pakistan is obsessed with dams. They, they really, and truly are. In fact, four years ago, Pakistan is crowdfunded 40 million for the construction of a mega dam. The D Pahad dam on the river after the then chief justice of the Supreme court, heralded it as a magical solution for Pakistan's water was flooding and power problems, which just goes to show how popular dams are in everyday discords and how they've been promoted as a magical solution to the country's problems, except this year, dams bust and exacerbated the extent of flooding.

0 (5m 51s):
Can you talk about how much of Pakistan is flooded and what that looks like?

1 (5m 57s):
Nearly a third of the country is flooded.

10 (6m 1s):
Our houses have collapsed because of the floods. We had a home and it was enough for us. Now, all our belongings are buried under 12 to 13 feet of water,

1 (6m 11s):
30 million people have been impacted as a consequence. The climate change minister described it as, as a climate change disaster of epic

11 (6m 19s):
Proportions. We've all been reeling from climate shock.

1 (6m 23s):
It's worse than the floods we saw in 2010, both in terms of its magnitude and in terms of the region that has been affected. So, I mean, in my lifetime, this is probably the worst natural disaster I have ever seen.

0 (6m 37s):
I saw a picture online the other day of a Pakistani man and a little boy, and they were waiting through water and the bottoms of their clothes were soaking wet. And it really drove home. The fact that these floods have been going on for months and the water is not receding, at least in some places, why is the water stagnating this way?

1 (6m 57s):
The reason why the, the floods this year are worse is because the areas that are inundated are far from the river. And so for water to recede, it needs to recede to a particular source. And if the place that is underwater is far from the river, where will the water go?

11 (7m 18s):
The volume and scale of water that's come down is so consistent and without gaps for eight weeks, that there's been nowhere to put the water when we, you know, drain it out where you put it.

1 (7m 30s):
This is, and the reason why these places are underwater is because the floods that have taken place this year are a combination of floods because of rainfall and floods because of glacial melt, right? So there are districts that were already inundated because of rainfall when the flood arrived and that has, of course increased the volume of water in these places. And so when there's no place for the water to go, it will remain. And it will remain for days and months, you know, nearly 1500 people are estimated to be dead damages. So far have been put at about 30 billion and send where I'm based, which is Pakistan's Southern.

1 (8m 11s):
Most province, 90% of crops have been ruined. Pharma. Gopi

12 (8m 18s):
Has been sleeping in an open field for a week.

9 (8m 23s):
Our homes are gone. We have nothing. I was able to grow my own vegetables back home, and everything is gone. Now. I can't even feed my children

0 (8m 40s):
As a person there on the ground. You have heard a lot from people who've been affected. Tell me about a story or two, a person or two, a family or two who have stayed with you.

1 (8m 50s):
Yeah. So I spoke with this family who lives in a village called jockey. Jali in the Southwest province of Stan. And they told me that all the mud baked homes in the village jockey Jali had been washed away. So Miam Jali was one of my sources. Miam was seven years old when the 2010 floods took place. She's 19 now and her family associates water with trauma. And so when the rain started in June, her family was in denial. They said, the floods won't happen. There's no possibility that something similar to what happened in 2010 could potentially occur again. And so they were the last to evacuate.

1 (9m 31s):
And her elderly grandmother was the last person in their family to leave. She was eventually evacuated on a tractor, a grandmother every day. She asks her when they're going back, but there's no going back because the home no longer exists. I, I spoke to this other gentleman who is in a town called Les, which is also in, in the province of Stan. And he told me that the graveyards are inundated. And so if someone passes away, there's no place to bury them, which is just, it's horrifying.

0 (10m 8s):
I, I mean, in these situations in disaster situations, people do need, they do need someone to blame who, who are folks blaming.

1 (10m 16s):
Yeah. So to a large extent, folks on ground are blaming the Pakistani government for the catastrophe that has taken place. Some flood victims like Mariama, in fact, who live in areas that were flooded by the 2010 super flood are now questioning why more wasn't done in the past decade to flood proof, their communities, why climate resilient housing wasn't encouraged and why the government pour in all their money into building mega projects like dams that essentially did nothing to prevent the floods from taking place.

0 (10m 52s):
What is the government now saying it's going to do for people who've been affected?

1 (10m 57s):
The immediate promise is that they'll be given some sort of relief in terms of, in terms of payment, right? But apart from that, nothing and, and folks that have been on ground receiving aid have primarily been receiving aid from non-profits and from mutual aid networks. They're the folks that are on ground that are going from village to village and door to door and, and documenting what's happening.

0 (11m 27s):
Okay. So that's what the government is promising Pakistanis who've been affected at the same time. What is the Pakistani government saying to the international community?

1 (11m 39s):
So to the international community, they're essentially saying

15 (11m 42s):
We will certainly learn from our overall experience, but I think the global community should stand by us today.

1 (11m 51s):
They won't climate reference from the global north, specifically from countries that have a larger carbon footprint. And that contribute more to emissions

11 (12m 0s):
When countries like mine are affected in the frontline of climate disasters, one after another, despite our poor planning, I mean, that's a separate issue that does not cause the heat waves that trigger. So many of our categorizes and catastrophes, including,

1 (12m 21s):
You know, 50 and their argument for this is that Pakistan contributes less than 1% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions and that they deserve compensation for the loss and damage incurred as a consequence.

0 (12m 37s):
Does Pakistan have a strong case for climate reparations?

1 (12m 41s):
A pretty strong case, in my opinion, right? Because Pakistan's among the country is most vulnerable to climate change. It faces a rate of warming considerably above global average with a potential rise of 1.3 to 4.9 degrees Celsius by the 2090s and the economy and the people of this country are suffering and they need this all the assistance they can get.

0 (13m 1s):
One of the main voices calling for reparations comes from the minister of climate change, Sherry Raman, how has the international community been responding to what she's been saying?

1 (13m 12s):
So there haven't been any immediate responses as per my knowledge, but there is an existing trend of rich countries, not pledging money to adapt to climate shocks, right? And expressing reluctance to engage in meaningful negotiations about financing loss and damage suffered by countries like Pakistan that have contributed negligibly to emissions the annual UN climate change stocks are going to take place in Egypt, in November, where Pakistan is planning on pushing hard for polluters to pay up after a year of devastating drought, floods, heat waves, forest fires, you name it

0 (13m 50s):
Coming up. A former ambassador from Pakistan to the us tells us whether he thinks this push for reparations will work.

16 (14m 8s):
Hey, it's Amanda Lou Ellen. I'm a producer on today, explained a little while back some friends. And I started joking that it seems like every single show on streaming services these days is a sequel or a spinoff or a certain dragon themed prequel. And I wanted to know why that is and whether we're doomed to a future with zero original content. So I call that my colleague, Peter Kafka, who's been covering the economics of streaming for years now, and I made an episode about it. And I can do that in part, because of contributions from listeners like you this month, Vox is aiming to add 5,000 contributors to the community, supporting our journalism.

16 (14m 49s):
Those kinds of gifts means that our explanatory journalism can stay free. You can make your gift at box.com/give to help us reach our goal. There's also a link in the show notes, thanks for your support. And thanks for listening.

The OUTThinking Investor on Apple Podcasts (15m 6s):
Welcome To season two of the out thinking investor and award-winning podcast from PPG. We'll bring unique perspectives to the underappreciated challenges and overlooked opportunities. We'll speak with global thought leaders and PPG experts to understand the current trends and forces reshaping global finance subscribe to PPGs the outthinking investor today for these insights and more This podcast is intended solely for professional investor use has performance is not a guarantee of future results.

0 (15m 39s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. Now, as catastrophic as things are in Pakistan right now, the country is not shy about making demands specifically for climate reparations. And it has the clout to ask very powerful members of the international community for help, because for years informed region Watchers have told us that Pakistan is like the ball in a great game. Being played by world powers. The us wants badly to influence it. China, which is much closer. Geographically also wants influence in Pakistan. Ambassador Huen Hani is the director of south and central Asia at the Hudson Institute. And he was Pakistan's ambassador to the us during the 2010 floods.

0 (16m 23s):
When the us was very keen to help Pakistan

17 (16m 27s):
American NGOs, American foundations, the private sector, American churches, they were all very generous stewards Pakistan because they saw Pakistan as an ally. And they saw millions of people in Pakistan who were allied to the United States as being in trouble.

18 (16m 47s):
The us Navy and Marine Corps are rushing 10 Osprey aircraft like these to Pakistan as part of USA efforts to the flood drivers country.

17 (16m 57s):
That sentiment is no longer existent. If anything, Pakistan and the us have drifted apart. And because they have drifted apart, even the will to provide humanitarian assistance has diminished somewhat.

0 (17m 10s):
Okay. So us support is not what it once was. The other player in this great game is China. What has China done for Pakistan? Recently?

17 (17m 20s):
Pakistan is very close to China

19 (17m 21s):
Gathered to receive that aid from, from China and also to appreciate the government of China, his excellency, president Xian, P, and the people of China for their abiding love and affiliation for the people of Pakistan.

17 (17m 41s):
30% of Pakistan's debt is owed to China. Pakistan in the United States have a functional relationship. It's not as warm as it used to be. And that is reflected in the fact that at the time of the 2010 floods, the United States contributed more than a billion dollars towards a rehabilitation and reconstruction for flood victims. And this time that contribution is only 53 million so far China on the other hand has never been a huge humanitarian and other aid giver, but it has been a big lender and they have neither given Pakistan any debt relief nor have they given a large amount of support in rehabilitation and reconstruction aid.

17 (18m 27s):
Their aid is around 57 million at this moment.

0 (18m 31s):
Do you think that the United States or China or any other country that is a major emitter of carbon is likely to pay Pakistan reparations?

17 (18m 41s):
I think that reparations are not a practical thing in the modern world. Anyway, all reparations are paid only when somebody can enforce them. And when there is no enforcement mechanism, people generally do not pay reparations. So it is a great, shall we say a great one liner to say that the big emits of the past, those who have polluted the world have a responsibility towards paying the poorer countries that are suffering from their past excesses, and maybe it's even a fair point to make at an academic level, but in the real world, I do not see any major country paying Pakistan repressions. On the other hand, what is more likely to happen is that the international community can be persuaded to provide Pakistan relief assistance because there is a human tragedy unfolding, and the world has a track record of rising to helping nations that are afflicted with humanitarian tragedies.

0 (19m 38s):
Beijing, as you said, has promised 57 million in assistance. It's Pakistan's main ally here. What do you think of that amount?

17 (19m 47s):
In this particular instance, China has just not been generous enough. Pakistan will need something between 10 to 12 billion to deal with flood relief, flood rehabilitation, and post flood reconstruction. People have lost homes, armor have lost crops. They have lost their livestock. And a lot of infrastructure has been permanently damaged. All of that will require a lot of resources. The one thing China could do for Pakistan very easily is to give a debt relief. One third of Pakistan's debt is owed to China. China has a track record of not giving debt relief to most countries.

17 (20m 27s):
Unlike the Western countries and Japan who have a long history of providing aid and providing loans, development loans, which then they either forgive or reschedule. China does not have the experience of providing debt relief, but that's a very flimsy argument. I think that they need to actually provide debt relief as a way of helping the Pakistan government in finding the additional resources that will be needed for dealing with the post flood rehabilitation and reconstruction.

0 (21m 5s):
China's 57 million to an ally in distress seems low in a relative sense because in 2010, the us gave Pakistan a billion dollars. Why did the us drop from a billion dollars to 53 million this time around

17 (21m 22s):
Pakistan in 2010 was seen as a critical ally of the United States. It was a country that was expected to help the United States stabilize of Afghanistan. Keep the Taliban at bay, make sure that there was some kind of an outcome in of Afghanistan in which the us could readily withdraw its troops. What has changed since then is that Pakistan is now seen in the United States as a country that did not help America in Afghanistan. There is a feeling that Pakistan supported the Taliban towards victory. As a result, there is a sense of negativity towards Pakistan, among policy makers and in policy circles.

17 (22m 2s):
Also, there is no readily appropriated large packet of money that can be relocated towards flood relief in Pakistan. Both of those factors are at play.

0 (22m 18s):
I see. So unfortunately, ambassador, what you're saying is some of this response is just the brutal fact of which countries matter on the world stage at which time and in what ways they matter.

17 (22m 29s):
Absolutely. It is a brutal reality. The United States has less interest in the region. The United States used to have Pakistan as an ally at a time when India was not willing to be an American ally. Now, India is a major American ally and partner, and there is no geopolitical need of Pakistan per se. Furthermore Pakistan's own track record in relation to the United States has disturbed American policy makers too much. They think that we have poured money into Pakistan. We have given them aid, we have cutoff aid and nothing works with Pakistan. Pakistan does what it thinks is right for itself.

17 (23m 9s):
And its leaders are too preoccupied with competing with, or going against India. Then they are interested even in the welfare of their own people. Now that opinion is the real reason why American policy makers are not going to commit any significant resources or effort to try and wean Pakistan away from China.

0 (23m 31s):
By that logic ambassador, there really is no great game. The United States has given up playing.

17 (23m 36s):
I am one of those who thinks that there has never been a great game. And I think great games will find during the 19th and early 20th century, they don't make sense in a world in which there is, is considerable economic interdependence, Pakistan, which has a much smaller economy, will always be considered less important than India and its desire to try and go head to head with India will always keep it at a disadvantage.

0 (23m 58s):
What does all of this mean for ordinary Pakistanis who will continue to face the effects of climate change?

17 (24m 4s):
It is unfortunate that people have to pay the price of the wrong decisions of their leaders, but Pakistan's leaders have made a succession of wrong decisions. Unfortunately, as far as the price of climate change is concerned, it's not just Pakistan. Many countries are going to pay the price of climate change. The consequence of denial of climate science has been enormous everywhere what's happening in Pakistan should be a wake up call that if we do not and cannot help Pakistan, then tomorrow there will be another region and another country that will have a similar catastrophe on its hands.

17 (24m 47s):
So the world as a whole needs to take matters relating to climate change much more seriously. We should also not be hopeless because 220 million people are not going to roll over and play dead.

0 (25m 4s):
Today's show was produced by heh Shaw. We had sound design and engineering by Paul Robert mosey. We were edited by Matthew and fact checked by Laura Bullard. It's today explained I'm Noel king.