1 (0s):
Hey everyone, before we get started with the show today a quick note. Our show has ads and Those ads pay for our show. If you a listener of our show are interested in hearing the show without ads. There is a way Stitcher premium go to Stitcher.com / premium right now, and you can try the service out for free and if you like what you don't hear you can pay for the service in perpetuity and never hear another ad again on our show. Thanks for listening. This episode is brought to you by course

2 (32s):
correction a production of Doha debates and Qatar Foundation hosted by journalist. Nellie for hidayat each week. Nella fur takes on new challenges to confront the world's problems head on the challenge is to only live on 50 liters of water a day like a shower and connects with the people most affected by global crises.

1 (55s):
They put us in a very small cells a presence. And so I was very dehumanizing

2 (59s):
experience. Challenge yourself to change the world find course correction presented by Doha debates wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (1m 21s):
Julia Blues senior health correspondent Vox when we spoke a week ago. We had hundreds of people sick on one cruise ship off the coast of Japan and potentially a bunch of sick people who had just been let off another cruise ship in Cambodia. You said it might have been the Tipping Point for what's now being called coded 19 was it?

2 (1m 40s):
Unfortunately, yes, so we've seen the Battlefront against this virus go completely Global in the last week. And if you remember when we first started to talk about this coronavirus, it was really heavily concentrated on China and most of the countermeasures against that the outbreak they are were focused on people coming from China or within China itself. And what's different now is that the number of people being diagnosed with the virus outside of China has been surging and the rate of new infections. Actions in China seems to be going down. So as of today there are more than 80 1,000 cases of covet 19 in 40 countries and territories and that list includes countries this far and wide as Bahrain Afghanistan Switzerland Brazil, even my home turf here in Austria, as of yesterday, they found cases here and there are particularly worrisome outbreaks happening in Italy Iran and South Korea right now because basically Night in these three countries, they went from only 0 or a few cases to more than a thousand cases in South Korea.

2 (2m 47s):
And so that's why on Tuesday the Centers for Disease Control and prevention in the u.s. Warned Americans to brace themselves for more spread of the virus in America.

1 (2m 57s):
Do we know how it got to so many other countries was it that one cruise ship that led its passengers disembark in Cambodia or is this just more of like a natural spread of this virus?

2 (3m 8s):
I think it's the latter. It's worrisome. Now is that a lot of the cases can't be traced back to any particular place. They seem to be occurring locally. What epidemiologist call Community spread in different

1 (3m 19s):
countries. Is this a pandemic yet is that word being used officially?

2 (3m 26s):
That's what it looks like. So a pandemic means a new infectious pathogen is spreading in multiple regions of the world and no Health body has used the p word yet, but a bunch of the public health and infectious disease. I've been talking to are saying we're either on the brink of a pandemic or it's already happening. And what that means is that containing the virus so fully halting its Brad May no longer be possible and countries are going to start shifting their strategies from focusing on containment. So using things like travel restrictions and what not to mitigation meaning doing things that will minimize the harm that local outbreaks can have so that that's things like preparing to take care of thousands of sick people figuring out how to protect the most vulnerable populations making sure hospitals.

2 (4m 17s):
Ready, all of those types of measures

1 (4m 19s):
who gets to decide whether this is called a pandemic or not

2 (4m 22s):
traditionally. It's the who who would declare an outbreak of pandemic but a spokesperson there told me they no longer use this formal definition and that's because of lessons learned during do you remember the swine flu pandemic in 2009? Sure. Yeah. So they use the p-word then and the disease turned out not to be very deadly and they were accused of inciting fear and causing all kinds of disruption to the global economy. So it's unclear whether they're going to make a formal pandemic declaration. But several Global health organizations are now working out an official definition of a kovin 19 pandemic. And in the meantime were probably going to start to hear the word used informally more and more.

1 (5m 4s):
Does this mean that a lot more people are going to die

2 (5m 8s):
saying a disease is gone pandemic doesn't say anything about its severity. So it means that large swaths of the world are now exposed to this. New pathogen and we're going to see it spreading more broadly, but it doesn't mean a lot of people are going to die and we still don't know how deadly this virus is. So in China the case fatality rate has been hovering around 2% and outside China looks like less than one percent according to The Who and his country start to look for more cases especially cases that aren't linked back to China. They'll probably identify more people with mild in asymptomatic disease and that that death rate is going to continue to drop hopefully.

1 (5m 53s):
You mentioned that there's major outbreaks in South Korea Iran and Italy can we walk through what's going on in each of those countries and how they're trying to contain covet 19.

2 (6m 4s):
Yeah. Let's do that. So South Korea is home to the largest outbreak outside of China right now. They went from around 30 cases last week to more than 1,200 as of Tuesday and many of the cases there have been traced back to members who are part of a religious group and then their family members in Congress. Contacts and on the weekend the country's president put South Korea on its highest alert over the outbreak. So thousands of community centers in daycare facilities of close. The government is restricting outdoor rallies. They're asking churchgoers to stay home or gather online and one important thing is that South Korea is a liberal democracy.

2 (6m 45s):
So they haven't been taking the same kinds of measures as China in terms of completely locking cities down. Instead they've been advising people who have respiratory symptoms to stay home and self-quarantine. So there are reports that the outbreaks epicenter shopping malls restaurants and cafes or basically empty right now because of fear of the virus

1 (7m 6s):
Iran is less of a liberal democracy houses going there.

2 (7m 9s):
So this is the biggest outbreak in the Middle East and it became clear that Iran had a big problem when Travelers with the virus started to turn up in other countries, and now they have the most deaths Outside of China at the moment which suggests that many of the cases there haven't even been identified yet. And I should say as of today. They have a hundred and thirty nine cases and disease modelers have estimated that there are thousands and thousands more because of the fact that they've already exported cases to so many countries. So schools and universities across the country are being closed Cinemas in restaurants are shutting down. We're also seeing countries in the region closed their borders to Ron and cancel flights so that includes turkey Armenia Pakistan and Afghanistan one worrisome thing.

2 (7m 59s):
There is that there have been reports and concerns that they aren't accurately reporting cases. So yeah, we'll see what happens there in the coming days and

1 (8m 9s):
weeks and what about this third major outbreak in

2 (8m 12s):
Italy Italy now has the biggest outbreak in Europe with 322 cases and it seems to have started in a town called. Uh done? which is just south of Milan in Italy's Lombardy Province. And since then people have been diagnosed with the virus. In other parts of Italy, but more importantly cases are also turning up around the world that are linked back to Italy suggesting the outbreak there might be much bigger. So people with the virus have turned up in Austria Brazil the Canary Islands and they've all been linked back to Italy

1 (8m 47s):
on the Canary Islands off the eastern coast of Africa more than a thousand tourists. Star trapped in a hotel because an Italian guests came down with the

2 (8m 55s):
virus and Italy has taken measures that are closer to China then to South Korea. So they've imposed pretty severe quarantines to stop the virus and cities in this northern region have been put on lockdown. So people are barred from entering or leaving the affected areas. They've also cancelled sporting events and cultural events museums have shut down Venice is famous. Miss Carnival which happens every year at this time of year has ended early because of the outbreak so yeah things are not looking so good and Italy and and they're definitely taking a more severe approach to stop the outbreak.

1 (9m 37s):
How's the rest of the world bracing for impact here? The

2 (9m 42s):
rest of the world should be bracing so that was the message from The Who on Tuesday. They said the rest of the world has to be prepared for outbreak showing up within their borders yesterday. Basically, like they we need to be preparing as soon as possible and

1 (9m 58s):
this is not the time to focus on what word we use that will not prevent a single infection today or save a single life today. This is a time for all countries communities families and individuals to focus on preparing. We must focus on containment while doing everything we can to prepare for a potential

2 (10m 29s):
pandemic. Again, the CDC came out with a similarly kind of Bleak message saying, you know, we have to brace ourselves for spread and disruption in the US to people's daily lives.

1 (10m 41s):
Lives we expect we will see Community spread in this country. It's not so much a question of if this will happen anymore, but rather more question of exactly when this will happen and how many people in this country will have severe illness

2 (10m 56s):
people have long predicted that a pandemic would completely disrupt the global economy, and we're already seeing that happen. So we're seeing Market stumble this week over concerns about the virus companies from Guinness to up. All and Danone are warning that this outbreak is going to affect their bottom line. Yeah, there's concerns about pharmaceutical Supply chains and Auto Parts Supply chains linked back to China and this is just really the beginning.

1 (11m 30s):
Who's most at risk here? Is it elderly people as a people who are already sick. Is it babies? Is it middle-aged people?

2 (11m 37s):
Who is it? Yeah, we're talking about individuals. This disease seems to be particularly hard on the elderly. So on the data we have from China. We've seen the risk of death increase with every decade after the age of 50 and they're also finding that people with underlying health conditions are at a greater risk. So these are the vulnerable populations that countries We need to be thinking about how to protect.

1 (12m 3s):
How scared should we be Blues?

2 (12m 7s):
Honestly, what scares me most right now is people's reaction to the virus and the fear and xenophobia and lockdowns and damage to the economy that this might cause then the virus itself. even as this Fred's around the world, there's still a good chance it'll look more and more like the H1N1 swine flu pandemic, which was actually less deadly than seasonal flu and less and less like SARS

1 (12m 49s):
After the break what a major Cove ID 19 outbreak might look like in the United States. You know, I used to think therapy was for suckers, but then I moved to New York and they sign you up for therapy at the DMV there and you know, it really helped me in a lot of ways. So if you are interested in trying therapy, if you've got some issues with stress or grief or anger or you know relationship stuff you want to work out better help has a counselor ready for you. You can connect privately with a better help counselor through texts through phone calls through video calls and get help on your own time.

1 (13m 36s):
Your own pace at a rate you can actually afford and right now they're offering today explained listeners and even better rate. If you sign up right now you get 10% off your first month with the code explained over at better help.com explained so that is better help.com / explained and use the code explained to get hooked up with better help. Hi, I'm Ariel Jim

2 (14m 4s):
Ross. And I'm the host of a podcast called reset reset is a podcast about the impact of technology how humans have shaped it and how technology reflects our values and biases reset is also a podcast about how much good Tech has accomplished and how much better it could be if we listen to each other recently. We've covered stories about how artificial intelligence is being used to track coronavirus. We've also covered how to solve the problem of child Predators on gaming sites. And why our night sky might soon be filled with thousands of new satellites subscribe to reset for free on Apple podcasts Spotify or in your favorite podcast app later nerds.

1 (14m 51s):
Brian Resnick, you've been writing for Vox about what a Corona virus outbreak in the United States would look like let's start with how many cases of this Cove ID 19 we have in the country at this point. So the numbers are small so far. So it was roughly like around 14 or you know, it's like a dozen or so people in the United States who have this disease and then there's another 40 or so people who have contracted this disease from outside nice States and now they're in United States, but we now know that this is likely to get worse. Yeah this week the CDC really stepped up his messaging on on this topic saying that it's a win now not an if to see Community spread within the United States how prepared is Donald Trump to deal with something like this.

1 (15m 35s):
So I have three things in mind when you ask that question one is well there used to be this White House Office in charge of pandemic prevention and response under Obama which Trump eliminated so there's there's not a White House Office like specifically about coordinating this O2 is I spoke to Ron klain, who is Obama's Ebola Czar? So he was a person there's a lot of branches of the federal government that could potentially respond to an outbreak and Ron klain was like this one person who kind of coordinated the response in the federal government Trump couldn't point someone like him to do that for this. Hm3 is kind of a worry because wanted to worries.

1 (16m 14s):
Yeah three is more like Thinking about how Trump has acted in the past when the advice of his scientific organizations contradict the messaging he might want to put out. So I'm thinking about Sharpie gate Sharpie Kate like a marker. Yeah. Yeah. I remember in September. There was this hurricane forecast for hurricane that was looking like it was going to hit Florida or it was like coming up the east coast and Trump had tweeted that Alabama was in the forecast range and that was never true that forecast never included Alabama.

1 (16m 55s):
Remember last two days how we got into a disagreement with the National Weather Service where he tweeted the storm is going to hit Alabama and they said what know I do remember this we'll take a closer. Look at Trump's outdated map from last Thursday morning. He in like this little press Gathering showed the press the map that had the hurricane forecast and then it looked like there. Like a Sharpie drawing to make the hurricane forecast and Compass, Alabama. He gave the storm of boob job. It was like this classic Trump moment where you know, what was he trying to do? They're just like prove.

1 (17m 35s):
He was like right all along like you actually took a map from one of his scientific organizations Noah, which is the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and altered it like altered the science altered, you know and places like no or the CDC Centers for Disease Control and prevention exists to help the public. Like they need to have the Public's trust and not have their science undermined and you know already we're seeing reports. I saw in the Washington Post that Trump is furious that the Corona virus is impacting the stock market and you know, I'm kind of starting to get a little nervous that trumps messaging on this might start to contradict the CDC.

1 (18m 20s):
You know when he asked his Trump prepared like is he prepared to confront the truth of a virus that doesn't care about The international boundary that doesn't care about state lines that doesn't care about stock markets or the economy or his re-election prospects. Like is he prepared to confront a virus? Well, what might the administration's actual response look like so the federal government does play a really important role in the response to an outbreak. The biggest one is just having the CDC which is the world's Premier scientific disease expert investigations. Like they provide such a critical role and defining what a case of a virus is sending out test kits to make sure like if someone comes into in a hospital or a doctor's office who think they have this If they can get confirmed and then protect their family members so that function the government is going to continue and they're going to provide that critical information to make sure like we can get a handle on this Outbreak on also like the what the trauma Administration can do they can appoint like Hazard or somebody who oversees the federal government's response the pandemic the federal government also maintains the Strategic stockpile of medical supplies, like respirators.

1 (19m 40s):
So in the case of emergency when In hospitals and local authorities get overwhelmed. Like there are stock piles of equipment that can help save lives and that can be deployed. So the federal government can help and hopefully it will be mindful of these things and act but something that was kind of surprised to learn and talking to a lot of experts was that the power of Public Health really doesn't rest with the federal government. But really the power of Public Health and to enforce Public Health rest was the state's the states. Yeah, like The Tenth Amendment of the Constitution any power not explicitly given to the federal government is given to the states and public health is one of them.

1 (20m 21s):
So does that mean that we're going to see a patchwork of responses in the United States that Texas is going to respond one way and Alabama might respond differently. Absolutely. Yeah. So like it's generally a state power to issue quarantines, you know, the CDC might advise that communities do something. Old social distancing which is basically avoid Mass Gatherings of people. So local governments could cancel concerts. They can cancel sports events, you know, any can even go even more local than like a city or state government like any school board can cancel a school and it's also worth noting like each state has different laws on the books on these things.

1 (21m 4s):
So it could get a little chaotic in that it was reading this recent review of the laws and among all the states and some states. Don't provide good protections for civil liberties. They don't provide like the right to a counsel for quarantine not all states like provide protections for like if you're quarantined and you can't go to work that all them provide protections for you to keep your job and then you know quarantine in the social distancing measures should be thought of like as a type of jury duty. Like it's a civic responsibility to make sure like infection doesn't spread but unfortunately, you know because of this Patchwork a could Play out like kind of unfairly for some people.

1 (21m 45s):
What are the chances that we see something like what China has in Wuhan where there they shut down quarantine an entire city. Could that happen in the United States? Might Austin get quarantine there or even New York City. I'm told no, I'm told like that is extremely unlikely and like that's something China can do because it has this authoritarian top-down rule, but we have this federalized system where each city and state is going to be making decisions for his own. And I'm told that has pros and cons like a pro is that it is flexible. So like New York City which dealt with Typhoid Mary they dealt with polio. They've dealt with it. They've seen everything they can just start on a response and they don't need permission from the federal government.

1 (22m 27s):
They are the experts there in New York City and they have the power to enact a public health response. The con. Is that New York City might do a great job and responding to a virus but New Jersey or Connecticut or any other state that borders it I might do a less of a good job and viruses don't really care about state lines so they can cross them and you know continue to spread. What are we likely to see here then? Yeah. So like the CDC was pretty clear on this that you should be prepared for things like your child's daycare being closed or for schools being closed or for you to have to telework. So be prepared to not be allowed to go to places where a lot of people congregate be.

1 (23m 12s):
For potential concerts to be canceled for sporting events to be canceled. The CDC was pretty clear about you know, if you have a kid go call their school and ask them like what is their plan for like an outbreak, you know the idea is to think about the contingencies now, like if you basically are forced to stay in your home for longer than you'd like. How does that impact your life and you should start thinking through that. There are also like just general pandemic precautions that the CDC emphasizes a always which is, you know, cover your coughs and wash your hands and if you are feeling sick just stay home, like don't interact with people interacting with people is how viruses spread thankfully fox has a generous remote work policy.

1 (24m 5s):
Yeah at least One day off there's a pandemic like it's a little like just give me like one. Okay thing if the horrible thing is gonna happen Brian Resnick always a pleasure. Thanks. Sean. Brian Resnick is a senior reporter here at vaux. He mostly covers science from the office though. He sometimes has been known to work remotely. I'm Sean Rama's

2 (24m 32s):
firm. Its today explained the rest of the

1 (24m 34s):
team includes Bridget McCarthy a female. Shapiro Jillian Weinberger, Amna al-saadi Halima Shaw and no MM hassenfeld who makes music to Cecilia laid checks are facts and I can't forget the mysterious brake master cylinder. The first time I ever collaborated with brake master was five years ago. I was hosting a podcast called Sideshow at Studio 360 and I was throwing this big event at WNYC to honor my favorite MPR news caster Laxmi sing. I had started a meme in her honor to talk about diversity and public radio. I called it the latch meme. You can check it out on the gram. I'm a traumas from brake master cylinder made some music for the dance party at the end of the show.

1 (25m 16s):
Anyway, today is mpr's 50th birthday a historic moment unfolded just moments ago. So many members of our team are connected to NPR worked there in turn their started that a member station met their husband their you name it our show probably wouldn't even exist or not for public radio. So as little tribute I thought I'd play the song Break Master made for my live event five years ago. If you love it, you can find it on bandcamp. That's a website go there and search for the MPR drop. You can even support brake master cylinders work and by the song there and you Always always always support your member station.

1 (25m 60s):
Happy birthday boo

2 (26m 1s):
from NPR news in Washington. I'm laxshmi saying

1 (26m 51s):
The track just sounds so hot from I'm writing my own stuff sitting in front of the computer and then pulling up all the wires. It's down to it. Look at it. Sounds pretty nice. Tremendous tremendous a tremendous impact.

2 (27m 36s):
Now the White House turns its attention to finding someone to let the bass kick.

1 (27m 45s):
And

2 (27m 46s):
Andy are our community you need to

1 (27m 47s):
you in Washington. Patch me turn it down.

1 (28m 29s):
It sounds nice. It sounds nice.