0 (1s):
Whether you're out there in the streets, protesting police, yelling a cab, or driving a lifted truck with a thin blue line American flag waving off the side. One thing we can all agree on is policing alone cannot prevent all the gun violence in this country. Policing can't stop all the mass shootings. Policing can stop a guy from opening fire in a kid who he thinks is trying to steal his car and policing certainly can't stop all the gang violence we see in American cities, but maybe violence interrupters can help with at least that last one. I

1 (33s):
Think a really good example of how this work starts with a guy named so Renzo Strong. He, he goes by Fats. He's a former gang member and drug dealer. He's working the same streets that he used to gang bang on, that he used to sell drugs on ahead

0 (46s):
On today, explained W B E Z. Chicago's Patrick Smith spent a year reporting on Fats and his coworkers trying to figure out if violence interrupters can scale up enough to make a difference.

2 (1m 1s):
Today. Today

1 (1m 5s):
I am Patrick Smith. I'm a criminal justice reporter at wbz Chicago.

0 (1m 10s):
Okay, so let's hear about these violence interrupters. Where do you wanna start the story that you're here to tell us?

1 (1m 17s):
I think I wanna start with, with what this looks like when it's working and I think a really good example of how this works starts with a guy named Sozo Strong. He, he goes by Fats.

0 (1m 26s):
Fats,

1 (1m 27s):
How you doing man?

2 (1m 30s):
Right? Fat. Yeah. Alright.

1 (1m 32s):
He's a, he's a heavyset guy, as you might have guessed from the nickname. He's a former gang member and drug dealer nowadays. He's left that life to be a violence interrupter or outreach worker. He's working the same streets that he used to gang bang on that he used to sell drugs on. We're

2 (1m 48s):
Down at Rockwell. It used to be a project that has been torn down and rebuilt, but everybody still comes back down here and hang out.

1 (1m 58s):
So you heard him talking about Rockwell. There, there were these huge towers, it's now been torn down, but the site where those towers used to stand, it's still the site of a lot of gang activity. Huh. And that gang activity, it happens a lot around this park. It's got this very poetic name, park 5 74, the park sits right in the center where the towers used to be. And when you go to that park, you know it's a park in a neighborhood. When you go to that park, there's this kind of uneasy piece. Hmm. And so fast as coworkers are there to maintain this piece, like they're not there saying, Hey, all these groups need to sing Kumbaya together. They're there to say, you guys, you know, stay in your separate corners.

1 (2m 38s):
And if a fight breaks out or if somebody starts talking shit or something like that, we're gonna be here to make sure it doesn't get any worse. Hmm. And so anyway, I said I was gonna talk about when this works. So, so let me get to, we're at this park around 3:00 AM These groups are all hanging out. People have been drinking. One dude from one gang that hangs out at this park. He starts talking shit to another gang. You know, they, no one's quite sure what started this altercation, but he pulls out a gun and then the people, he pulls out the gun on one of them, pulls out a gun and shoots him.

2 (3m 10s):
Huh. And you point a gun at somebody, somebody don't get shot. So,

1 (3m 15s):
So the guy who pulled out the gun, he gets shot, he isn't killed, but he's wounded. And the people who shot him, they go to the truck of this other guy, one of one of the guy who got shots, one of his friends, and they smash the truck up, sort of like, we shot your buddy. You guys started trouble, we're here to finish it. They smash up his truck as sort of further retribution for, for this fight.

2 (3m 36s):
Hmm. After the shooting man as they his windows, because he run the guy over here.

1 (3m 41s):
So now you've got one guy in the hospital, you've got his buddy with a smashed up truck. Those two are in one gang together. And then you've got the other guys who did the shooting and the smashing. They're in another gang. So this is a recipe for disaster,

0 (3m 56s):
But this is your example of this working. Where does our violence interrupt? Their fats fit in?

1 (4m 2s):
This is where he comes in. Fats is super worried about this, but he has a plan.

2 (4m 8s):
So we were trying to get on top of it, get a handle on him before it escalate and be retaliation behind him.

1 (4m 15s):
So Fats and his coworkers, first they go talk to the people who did the shooting and the, and the smashing. And he's like, Hey, you know, I know you guys had this fight. You shot somebody, you smashed up a truck, we don't want any more trouble. And they're like, we're done. Basically like, listen, we, we took our, our pound of flesh, like we're good. So then Fats goes to the guy who got shot and his friends, and they're like, are you gonna retaliate over this? I mean, you got shot, you know, you're, you're injured. And the guy basically is like, I'm good. I'm not gonna retaliate. You know, I realize I messed up by escalating that, by pulling the gun. You know, we've all made mistakes when we're drunk. And he, he has regret over what he did. Huh. And he, he says, I'm good. I'm gonna leave it alone. His friends, they say they're gonna leave it alone too.

0 (4m 57s):
Wow. That sounds sort of easy. So everyone's cool.

1 (5m 0s):
No, they're still the guy whose truck got smashed up and he is pissed.

0 (5m 5s):
Ah,

2 (5m 6s):
He felt disrespected. He probably would've been like, oh, fuck them. And he could have wanted, wanted some revenge or told him like, okay, well we going over there, I'm gonna bust somebody windows. Well, you know what I mean? I hurt, hurt somebody, anything.

1 (5m 20s):
So even though we've got the shooter and, and the person shot and they're cool, we are still looking at a potential retaliatory shooting and maybe a cycle of retaliatory shootings or other violence over this smashed up truck. And, and so Fatz is like, this is not done yet, but he comes up with a plan. He goes to the other gang, the gang that did the shooting, and he convinces them to pay for their rivals car repair. How much money did he want for repairing the window?

2 (5m 48s):
I think it was like 800. But you know, we was able to talk and you know, some guys came up with money, everybody pitched in and he got more than what he even asked for, you know.

1 (6m 1s):
So the other organization, not the guy who got his window smashed, it was the other organization that, that pooled the money together. Yeah. So for like 800 bucks, he was able to prevent a potential summertime long gun more here.

0 (6m 15s):
So this is the sort of ideal of of violence interruption.

1 (6m 20s):
Yeah. That is violence interruption working at its best. The two groups involved in this conflict, they're not gonna cooperate with police and they don't want anyone to be arrested over this. And so the police are not gonna be able to broker this kind of piece. The courts would never be like, all right, you shot somebody just give 800 bucks to fix a car window and it's over. But that's what the people actually on the ground wanted. And that's what prevented the cycle of shootings that that fats was so worried about.

0 (6m 47s):
Tell me more about Fats. Like is this his job or does he have a day job? No,

1 (6m 53s):
This is his day job. He gets paid for 40 hours a week to do this work. He definitely works more than 40 hours a week having spent time with him. And, and he is a former gang member, as I mentioned. And, and when we talk about workers like Fats, his coworkers, almost all of them are former gang members or formerly incarcerated people who are now using their experience, using their community connections to do a couple things. One is intervening gang conflicts after a shooting or after a fight to try and prevent more shootings like we just heard about, like we were just talking about. And then some of the workers, they help victims of gun violence. You

0 (7m 25s):
Know, hearing you tell that story, Patrick, it occurs to me that, you know, when we watch like The Wire or whatever, police procedural, that is far more contemporary than The Wire. You know, police work can seem dramatic and epic and and exciting and, and what you are talking about is just like a guy in the neighborhood talking to a bunch of guys in the neighborhood, which, which would make for far less entertaining a TV show, but is sort of really effective on a small personal level.

1 (7m 55s):
Right. And, and what really struck me during the months doing this reporting was how much of the violence is about petty personal beefs now gang and clique allegiances, they, they drive a lot of this, these rivalries and allegiances. But what the shootings are actually about are about stuff like smashed up windows or a stolen chain or, or you know, a romantic relationship or something like that. They're not about, you're talking about the Wire, they're not about drug turf. They're not about, you know, making money. You, you know, I talked about that torn down public housing project when the gangs controlled those towers, they sold drugs out of them. There was big money to be made, but now nobody's making money there anymore. Nobody really lives there.

1 (8m 35s):
Here's how Sassy Mannion put it. She's a violence interrupter, a former gang member that I worked with on this series.

3 (8m 41s):
I think it's them protecting the territory. So nobody, no rivals come in and take that spot, take that space.

1 (8m 48s):
So if you're not really making money on the block, it's still important to you to hold it. Yes.

3 (8m 52s):
Why? That's your, that's your hood, that's your neighborhood. I couldn't imagine another rival gang taking over where I grew up. Never.

0 (9m 1s):
Huh.

1 (9m 2s):
So it's not really new, but it is worth saying in Chicago at least, we don't really have any of these sort of top down massive gang organizations that are organized around profit. Instead we have smaller groups of friends who hold each other's grudges and, and who, who commit violence over over really small stuff.

0 (9m 22s):
How long has violence prevention been around for people who are unfamiliar with it? What's the genesis of this idea?

1 (9m 27s):
This really like came to prominence and, and sort of took the form that we see it now in the 1990s it became formalized into what we see it as today. There was a group that started here in Chicago called Ceasefire former gang members talking to current gang members trying to mediate disputes.

0 (9m 42s):
Hmm. And is there like a new emphasis on this because the nineties were like 30 years ago, but you're following this for a year right now. How come?

1 (9m 50s):
This is like having a moment right now

4 (9m 53s):
As Minneapolis grapples with its most violent year in decades, city leaders hope a special partnership can break the cycle of crime.

5 (10m 0s):
DC Mayor Muriel Bowser addressing the newest graduates of the city's violence interrupters program in a ceremony this morning and

6 (10m 8s):
Watch New York City's alarming spike in gun violence prompted a big investment in community groups who can help police officers with prevention and

1 (10m 15s):
Intel. There's been a big push from players nationally starting from the early days of the Biden presidency and, and in the doj in the Biden White House, the term of art they use is community based violence prevention. There

7 (10m 29s):
Are programs that have demonstrated they can reduce homicides but up to 60% in urban communities. But many of these have been badly underfunded or not funded at all of late.

1 (10m 39s):
They started pushing this idea, committing hundreds of millions of dollars in grants for this kind of work. They actually encourage states and municipalities to use covid relief dollars on these kinds of violence prevention programs like we're talking about here in Illinois, where I am, our state committed 250 million of covid relief money to programs like this. Huh? In Atlanta they committed seven and a half million. In Baltimore it was 50 million St. Louis, it was five and a half million, you know, all over the country.

0 (11m 9s):
So there's real money behind this now, but you just named a bunch of cities that have some of the highest murder rates in the country. So the story you told about fats preventing potentially a few more shootings sounds very effective, but is it enough?

1 (11m 27s):
You know, I have seen firsthand, we were just talking about the impact that this kind of work can have on an individual level. Preventing shootings, helping people recover after shootings. Things that like should be done that somebody has to do and nobody else is doing them. But these are anecdotes and, and a lot of us have talked for a long time, like we shouldn't make policy based on anecdotes, we shouldn't be spending government money based on anecdotes. And so I think it's fair to have some skepticism about this. The research here is mixed. There's some ongoing studies here in Chicago that have found some pretty positive stuff that these, these sorts of organizations find the right people, they're able to connect with people who are truly doing the shooting and being shot.

1 (12m 9s):
That's a big accomplishment. That's a hard group to reach as you might imagine. Yeah. And that when they do connect with those people, they reduce at least like a study outta Northwestern found. They do reduce their likelihood of gun violence victimization, they reduce their likelihood of being arrested for gun violence. However, the question is if you, you can have these impacts on an individual basis, but are you having a big broader impact on overall violence? Cuz that's the goal here obviously is to reduce overall violence. Not to just help a couple people. And I, and I'll say here in Chicago, we've, we've put a lot into this in recent years and our shooting numbers are still really high. So you certainly cannot say, look, this worked like this program is working great and we reduce shootings cuz we haven't, they were down in 22 compared to the year before, but we're still way up from where we were in like 2015

9 (13m 2s):
More with Patrick Smith in a minute on today explained. Hey y'all, this is Josh Muci, host of the Pitch, a podcast from Vox Media on the pitch, real entrepreneurs pitch real tech investors for real money. Are you gonna invest in this?

11 (13m 24s):
I'm in, I'm in for 50 k.

9 (13m 26s):
Founders have raised over 10 million on our show from some legendary early stage investors. Several of these startups are worth hundreds of millions of dollars today and on our new season we're doing something a little crazy. We're gonna let listeners invest in the startups on our show alongside the investors here. The next billion dollar idea way before anyone else. We're building a $10 billion company get that's kind of sexy.

12 (13m 56s):
Go make the money

9 (13m 57s):
Honey. Follow the pitch right now to hear our best season yet our comeback season. New episodes start dropping weekly on February 8th.

12 (14m 10s):
Here's a question for you. How have apps like Tinder Hinge and Bumble affected our search for love, maybe even your search for love in the new season of the show Land of the Giants called dating games, the Verge and the Cut are teaming up to uncover the secrets of the dating app industry and show what happens when your love life becomes their business. And indeed it does. In every episode they're talking to experts and industry leaders about how tech has affected our relationships. You'll learn the economics of the dating industry. You'll hear surprising stories of real people trying to find love on an app. Find out what it means when your romantic life is part of a company's bottom line. You can follow Land of the Giants wherever you listen. New episodes are out every Wednesday.

13 (14m 58s):
Stop the fighting,

0 (14m 59s):
Make the Change

14 (15m 1s):
Game.

0 (15m 2s):
Today explained, we're still here with WBE Z's Patrick Smith who spent a year following former gang members doing Antiviolence work in Chicago. The work is called Violence Interruption. And Patrick, you were telling us in the earlier part of the show that there is money for this work and there is, there is a priority from the Biden administration to do more of this work in cities across the country. But when you were telling me Fats' story and that, you know, this was his full-time job, I did wonder like who is paying them? Is he, is he on the Chicago Police's payroll?

1 (15m 35s):
No, he is definitely not on the Chicago police p payroll. In fact, fats and his coworkers. There's this kind of weird relationship with police.

2 (15m 43s):
Like if guys hanging out, drinking on the corners, call us instead of the police and we can come in and hey y'all move around or things of that nature. We trying, we try and keep them from calling the police and let us handle the things ourselves. You know,

1 (15m 57s):
The people who do this work are like, I cannot talk to police. Hmm. Because if I started giving information to police or being seen talking to cops, then the people I need to work with are never gonna talk to me again. Like the whole point is there's a shooting and people on the ground tell Fats what group did it like Oh yeah, that was this gang that hangs out at that corner if

0 (16m 16s):
Fat's right. Cuz in the story you told, he knew who did the shooting. Right. He and he went to that and he, and he resolved.

1 (16m 21s):
Right. If Fat starts telling the police that, then no one's gonna tell him who's actually involved and he won't be able to do his job. So anyway. Hmm. They are definitely not on the police payroll. You asked who's paying them? It's mostly nonprofit groups like grants from philanthropic groups in Chicago. There's, there's this sort of coalition of big money groups that give to this. And then it's also that government funding that we talked about. They get money from the government as well to pay these workers to do this work.

0 (16m 46s):
How much does being a violence interrupter pay? It feels like it could be a dangerous job.

1 (16m 52s):
I think it definitely is a dangerous job. And if you talk to the workers, they don't feel like they get paid nearly enough for how many hours they work, how stressful their job is. The people that I've shadowed the, the salaries range from like 25,000 to $40,000 a year. That is more than the median income in the impoverished neighborhoods that they work in. It is, is significantly less than like what a Chicago police officer would make.

0 (17m 18s):
And I imagine the benefits aren't as good.

1 (17m 20s):
They are not nearly as good and neither is the job security. I mean, I think that any listener today explained is aware that police officers had a lot, have a lot of job security. The workers doing this anti-violence work. They do not, some of them, you know, they're on salary and, and, and they feel like they're at least set for a couple years. But many of these workers are on contracts that are like month to month or every few months because it's depends on when they get a grant from the government or if they get more money from, from a philanthropic organization. That's how, how it is determined whether or not they're gonna keep paying them. So for instance, there's this, this guy who works with Fats named Humpty. He got outta prison recently.

0 (17m 57s):
Humpty Humpty and Fats.

1 (17m 59s):
Humpty and Fats, exactly. I love

0 (18m 1s):
It.

1 (18m 2s):
They are a dynamic duo. They, they each have contacts with different gangs in the area. They're like an important partnership to be able to, to to work with these, to work with the gangs in, in their neighborhood on the west side of Chicago. So Humpty got recruiter to do this work. He's really valuable because of those gang connections we just talked about. He's, he's gungho about it, but he's like, basically month to month they're like, yeah, we'll have work for you next month if, if this grant comes in. And that's an issue because Humpty is still really connected. I mean that's the whole point of this. He's really connected to the streets and he basically is like, if they fire me or if they don't renew my contract, I'm gonna go back to my people that I, that I'm close with and tell them not to work with these guys anymore.

1 (18m 48s):
Like these guys are full of it. They're not worth trusting and that's gonna cause a real problem. And, and so, you know, that's an example with Humpty, but this is, this is an issue for the workers throughout these are, these are people who are close enough to the streets, close enough to the work that they can touch it, which means they're always kind of on the brink of maybe going back to what they used to do. Hmm. And then they're in this situation where their pay is not great and their jobs are not secure and it, it's a tenuous situation.

0 (19m 20s):
Does that create tension between all these groups, the violence interrupters, the police, the not-for-profits paying the violence interrupters the gangs, or, or does this feel somehow harmonious? I mean if, if you're talking about these violence interrupters having information the police want and being close to these gangs and being former gang members, I can imagine tension there.

1 (19m 42s):
There is definitely tension. There's not always tension. The sort of official stance of the Chicago Police Department as an example, is that they appreciate the work being done by these, these workers. And, and, and it's helpful to, to you know, basically like, Hey listen, we, we want, we need all the help we can get. But there is a history of skepticism from law enforcement of this kind of work because yeah, you're paying guys who just got outta prison, you're paying guys who are still on parole, some of these workers. And I don't wanna paint with a brush that's like, oh, they're all almost about to commit a crime if not for this job. But some of these workers get arrested for stuff. They get arrested for gun possession, they get arrested for drug dealing. If you're gonna work with people who are right on the fringe, that means some of them are going to go back to the, the other side of things.

1 (20m 24s):
And so there is a lot of skepticism among individual police officers, among law enforcement as a whole about these workers. Like are they, you know, and even I think from the community of sort of like, are you guys really the good guys here? And I'll say, having spent time with them, I think they really are not like every single person, but they for the most part are working for the good of their communities. But the skepticism is, is understandable. It

0 (20m 49s):
Sounds like you think they're worth the effort. It sounds like there's a number of not-for-profits operating across the country that think they're worth the effort and the president of the United States himself thinks they're worth the effort. Who needs to be convinced here?

1 (21m 1s):
Well, there are still a lot of skeptics out there about this work. And I think that skepticism is good. I mean, as I've said, I have seen these individual instances where these workers have prevented violence or helped a gun victim recover emotionally or, or physically. A and I think that work is incredibly important and it really can't be captured in the data. At the same time, there is a concern from the people doing this work that if we don't see a big reduction in gun violence in the next two years, all this attention, all this love that they're getting right now is gonna go away. And I, I think that is fair. I think it's fair. We should be skeptical about how we're spending our government money. We should not make policy based only on anecdotes.

1 (21m 44s):
I do wanna say one of the things that we haven't talked about yet, because we're talking about what the workers do, is the workers themselves. This is work that's essentially like a jobs program for people who used to be in gangs or who have spent time in prison, who would have a really hard time finding other legitimate employment. And those former gang members, those people who have been in prison before, unless we're gonna say like, we're just giving up on you like you are done. Unless we're gonna say that we have to have something for them to do, we have to have a way for them to contribute to society. And this to me is a, is a way for them to use skills that they've gained, use connections they've made to try to make their own communities better. One last story to try and illustrate that sassy, one of the workers we heard from in December, two of her kids were in a car that got shot up, like 20 bullets were shot at the car.

1 (22m 33s):
Miraculously they weren't hit, but it had her furious and leaning back toward her old ways.

3 (22m 39s):
I have a lot of anger in me right now, a lot of anger. So I tried to put myself in other people's shoes of how my parents, how they're feeling and how I calm them down by talking to them about not going out and doing something stupid. So I try to practice what I preach and it's very hard. It's very hard. But luckily I came home, I was tired, I was cold. I had other people around me, you know, that were there to support, make sure the kids were okay.

3 (23m 25s):
But I think that in my old days, if it was the other type of people around me, I would've been like, no, let's go look, let's go look. But then my kids would've lost me cuz either I would've been in jail or dead.

1 (23m 49s):
So you can hear there, the way that she has changed that doing this work and helping other parents of gun violence victims has changed her. And just the fact that she's doing this work prevented her from, from going out and getting, getting retaliation. And so you can see the, the impact that this has on individual lives and it on a group of people that we as a society don't, don't really think about very much. And so I think there, there's real value there.

0 (24m 22s):
Patrick Smith, W B E Z Chicago, you can hear much more of Patrick's reporting in a podcast called Motive. Our show today was produced by Miles Bryan, edited by Matthew Collect fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Paul Robert Moundy. I'm Sean Ramas firm. Noel King hosts the show with me. The rest of our team includes Victoria Chamberlain, Amanda Lou Ellen, Heidi Ma Wadi Halima, Shaw s Petros, and Aha Artsy AEM Shapiro is our director of Sound. Amina AAD is our supervising producer and we had extra help this week from Jolie Myers. We use music every week by Breakmaster Cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld today explained as distributed by W N Y C.

0 (25m 4s):
We are part of the Vox Media podcast network.