0 (1s):
House speaker Nancy Pelosi landed in Taiwan earlier today. All

1 (4s):
Right. I believe we are seeing Nancy Pelosi coming down. I was just deboarded the plane. After arriving in Taiwan, remember this is the highest level visit by a us official in 25 years coming at a very sensitive time.

0 (17s):
China does not want her to be there. China's foreign minister today said us. Politicians who play with fire will come to no good end the us called that saber rattling, but it should be noted. The white house didn't want her there either. So what is Nancy Pelosi doing in Taiwan? What is she not doing in Taiwan?

2 (36s):
I don't expect her to like stand on a Taiwanese speech and stare across the street with like her arms folded and going, Hmm. China we're here, but I do sort of expect her to make as many, again, small de democratic statements and, and show her support as possible because that ultimately is what this trip feels like. It's about

0 (55s):
That's coming up. I today explained,

4 (60s):
Hey, I'm Sam Sanders and I'm hosting a new culture podcast. It's called Intuit from vulture and New York magazine each week on the show we get into the pop culture that we just can't stop thinking about like Beyonce. I mean, we'll talk about other things too, but let's be real. Beyonce is gonna be a big part of this show. And that's the, that on that, into it. The weekly culture show from vulture with new episodes, every Thursday, subscribe, wherever you get your podcasts,

5 (1m 34s):
Noel king. A thing I know about you is you consume a lot of journalism, so much journalism. What is your favorite journalism?

0 (1m 40s):
The financial times what's

5 (1m 41s):
Yours. I love public radio. I'm such a joke. Anyway, we both pay for those things. Don't we,

0 (1m 47s):
We do couple dollars

5 (1m 48s):
A month, but we don't ask people to pay for this show.

0 (1m 51s):
Not until now.

5 (1m 53s):
We are gonna ask right now. Yeah, not like give us $6 a month or 25 a year, whatever. Just whatever you wanna chip in to support this journalism, because that helps keep it free for everyone.

0 (2m 8s):
And the way to do it is by going to vox.com/give.

5 (2m 12s):
Thank you.

0 (2m 13s):
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

6 (2m 18s):
Listening today,

0 (2m 22s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king, Alex Ward, longtime, friend of the show, national security reporter for Politico. Why are so many people losing it over Nancy Pelosi being in Taiwan

2 (2m 33s):
Because of the escalation that it portends losing necessarily for visit it's more, what could happen afterward? So you're seeing already escalation between China, where they're sending planes to the middle of a Taiwan straight, that separates Taiwan's island from mainland China. You're seeing shift sail near that, that sort of border, the leader of China ping say, Hey, don't play with fire here. And this comes amid a pretty tense moment, not Al already between the us and China, but as the us is trying to get China to stop helping or to not help. I should say Russia and his war against Ukraine. And so having Nancy Pelosi be there, which would make her, you know, the first speaker to be there since 1997.

2 (3m 13s):
There's no, there's no way around that.

0 (3m 14s):
So then why is she there? What's the official reason she's given if all of this is, is stressing everyone out.

2 (3m 20s):
Well, the thing is she hasn't even given an official reason when her office provided an itinerary of her visit. It didn't include Taiwan, right? I mentioned, Singapore mentioned South Korea mentioned Japan. There's no real reason why she's going. The unofficial reason. The, the best thing we can surmise from our own reporting and from others is that, you know, she's fearful. She will not be the speaker by this fall. And she has had a decades long stance of pretty much, you know, China ERY and standing up for human rights in China. She was int and square shortly thereafter. The, you know, the famous tank and the tank man moment saying, you know, the us stands with people of China. The us stands for human rights.

7 (3m 57s):
The three members of Congress had been optimistic about their human rights mission to China until they themselves went to Chinamen square Democrats, Nancy Pelosi from California and Ben Jones from Georgia and Republican John Miller of Washington staged their personal Chinamen remembrance in front of the international media in a square full of Chinese tourists and security personnel.

2 (4m 17s):
And so maybe this is sort of a bit of legacy partnership. Maybe this is, you know, in her final days, she went to Taiwan, stood up for its democracy, gave the middle finger to Chinese leader. She Jin, ping and showed herself to be the true champion of democracy worldwide, not just in the us, that she fancies herself to be.

0 (4m 35s):
Let's put all of this in some context, what is the United States's official policy toward Taiwan?

2 (4m 41s):
It is that we do not recognize its independence. We haven't done so since 1979, when Jimmy Carter officially made the us recognize mainland China with Beijing as its capital and Taiwan as a separate political entity in basically a breakaway state,

8 (4m 55s):
The United States of America and the people Republic of China have agreed to recognize each other and to establish diplomatic relations as of January the first, 1979, within this context, the people of the United States will maintain cultural commercial and other unofficial relations with the people of Taiwan.

7 (5m 19s):
However,

2 (5m 20s):
It does recognize its ability to, to defend itself from, you know, would be invaders, which of course would be China. And we have sold billions of weapons and missiles and planes and, and all other kinds of things to Taiwan to help a defend itself and create what some analysts would call a porcupine quote, unquote, which it's an island. So full of missiles. So full of weapons that it would, you know, basically prick China. If it tried to take the island by force,

0 (5m 46s):
What is China's policy toward Taiwan? And I mean, both it's official policy and also the way it behaves toward Taiwan.

2 (5m 55s):
Well, the official policy is that there is, you know, one China. And by the way, I should say that the us believes in that too, that it's the one China policy. Taiwan is a separate entity by Eugene believes that Taipei is not its own capital, that it belongs to China. And so the sort of official policy is that eventually there will be the reunification of the island. And so it's been decades in which, you know, sort of a democratic Taiwan has built up basically off the shores of a very communist China. And so the, the goal is, you know, perhaps with economic integration, perhaps with change in Taiwan's own politics, or just given enough time, there will be a reunification. The thing that worries a lot of people and that a lot of people here in the us especially is that China may grow impatient.

2 (6m 39s):
And especially with a, you know, authoritarian leader in ping and especially with other, you know, internal politics, dictators of politics too. We always forget, seem to forget that, you know, there are people that might consider she weak for allowing the us to still defend Taiwan. So this is sort of leading to some concerns that China's gearing up for an invasion of Taiwan, not imminently, not in anytime soon, but soon enough Chinese timeline, let's say, and I'm making this up is like 20 years from now. Well, the American timeline, and of course the Taiwan's timeline is never, never do that.

0 (7m 11s):
Okay. So Nancy Pelosi's visit is making a lot of people tense. Did she get approval for this trip from president Biden?

2 (7m 19s):
No. The opposite, you know, well actually not even the opposite Biden, didn't call her as far as we know and say, please don't go. What Pelosi heard was a lot of anger through the media about what us officials were, were thinking white house officials, oh, why would we start another fight when we've got the Russia Ukraine thing going on? And we don't want China to actually start helping Russia in that fight, but what's been interesting. The administration stance has changed and changed in the sense that they're like, look, you know, if she's gonna go, we're gonna do what we gonna defend her. It's her right to go. You know, we're never going to list, you know, cow out or what a Chinese leader is saying. You know, if she wants to go, we will not be intimidated.

2 (7m 59s):
And this was said from the white house podium

9 (8m 1s):
Put simply there is no reason for Beijing to turn a potential visit consistent with longstanding us policy into some sort of crisis or conflict, or use it as a pretext to increase aggressive military activity in or around the Taiwan

0 (8m 18s):
Straight president Biden. Didn't want her to go. What about her Republican colleagues, many of whom share her hawkishness on China. What do they think about this?

2 (8m 26s):
They're delighted. It's a, you know, big deal. And then look, let's not, you know, sure go this. Like it is a massive deal that she's going, because what it shows is that it's, you know, the highest ranking Democrat in decades to show up in Taiwan. And it's the highest ranking American to show up in, in, you know, since 1997 in Taiwan and Republicans like it, because there has been sort of a shift in Republican thinking on Taiwan. And I should say among some Democrats as well, but mostly Republicans, they don't like that. The us has, what's called a strategic ambiguity, you know, stance for Taiwan, which basically means that if China were to invade Taiwan, the us is not going to signal what it's going to do, whether it's going to defend Taiwan or whether it's not, you know, Republicans have told me they've been, oh, very open about this.

2 (9m 11s):
You know, we should get rid of this, get it done. We will defend Taiwan is what they want. Like let, why make it ambiguous? And that's not what Pelosi's going to Taiwan to say as far as we know, but it does sort of show a, a level of closeness and integration that could lead eventually down the line to like, you know, why wouldn't we defend Taiwan?

0 (9m 31s):
Are you willing

10 (9m 32s):
To get involved militarily to defend Taiwan? If it comes to that?

11 (9m 36s):
Yes

0 (9m 37s):
You are.

11 (9m 39s):
That's the commitment we made.

2 (9m 40s):
And I should note president Joe Biden has three times said the us would defend Taiwan in case of an invasion. Although his team has always walked it back today,

12 (9m 49s):
They insisted our policy has not changed. And that the president is simply committed to provide Taiwan with the military means to defend itself as he has in Ukraine.

2 (10m 0s):
You know, it's sort of this fascinating moment where, you know, especially former secretary of state Mike Pompeo was like, Hey, she

0 (10m 6s):
Should

2 (10m 6s):
Absolutely go. And then you've had the former defense secretary mark. ESER also for Trump who was just there basically say, you know, the one China policy has outlived it's usefulness.

13 (10m 16s):
I think if the speaker wants to go, she should go.

2 (10m 19s):
So she's again, not going there to back a Republican stance, but it's interesting. The Republicans are backing her trip and Democrats are the ones who are sort of mostly worry about it. But I, I also wanna reiterate, you know, Pelosi has bucked the democratic party for years on China. And mostly she's been a fierce advocate for small de democratic norms in that country for human rights. And that, you know, those issues have become increasingly problematic as Eugene Ping's leadership continues, you know, the crackdown on Hong Kong, the detention, the forcible detention of Wes in Shang and his consolidation of power to the point that he could be leader for life. So, you know, her going to Taiwan in a moment when there's fear that eventually there could be an invasion, you know, it's unsurprising that she feels that way and is doing this and that Republicans are backing her because she has been sort of on her hockey stance for China, more, I would say on where Republicans have longer been than where Democrats are.

0 (11m 16s):
Alex, do you think Taiwanese leaders feel that they're running a risk with this visit? Or are they happy to have Nancy Pelosi there, even though it's drawn a lot of it's drawn a lot of attention from China.

2 (11m 26s):
I mean, a bit of both. I mean, I've talked to some Taiwanese officials and they are saying, look, you know, we're worried about what this means. There's no illusions that China is just gonna, you know, sit this one out, right. They're expecting maybe missiles to be shot in the Taiwan straight, you know, near Taiwan itself, more planes, more ships near the island, you know, perhaps some cyber attack or something, you know, there's, there's tons of possibilities. So there's a bit, they're a bit fearful, right? It's, it's, it's not like this will be, this will just move on by. And of course, it's not like war's going to break out because of this visit, but the chance of miscalculation rises and that doesn't make anyone feel good.

2 (12m 6s):
But the other part of it is like, yeah, hell yeah. You know, we're happy to have Nancy Pelosi here because it shows how close America and Taiwan are now, you know, how much the us really does seem to care about the plight of Taiwan and sort of all those other things and sort of interesting because you know, the inauguration Taiwan's lead representative, not ambassador, but lead representative to the us showed up there, which was the first time in a while. And then in early 2021, the us ambassador to pull out, went to Taiwan, being the first us Envoy to be there since, you know, the us changes policy in 1979. So there's been sort of a closer relationship now and Pelosi going there is just basically the icing on the gate

0 (12m 59s):
As speaker Pelosi's plane landed in Taiwan, the Washington post published in op-ed she'd written called why I'm leading a congressional delegation to Taiwan quote in the face of the Chinese communist parties, accelerating aggression. Our congressional delegations visit should be seen as an unequivocal statement that America stands with Taiwan, our democratic partner, as it defends itself and its freedom. Hey, it's Noel here. Our friends over at vulture are having a banner week. They just launched their new flagship podcast. It's called Intuit. And it's hosted by dear friend of today explained the excellent Sam Sanders every week, Sam and his colleagues across the vulture newsroom will dive into the pop culture moments that they can't stop thinking about.

0 (13m 49s):
And they'll help us understand what's worth our time to watch, listen, to read, drink, and a lot more like why is Sam so obsessed with the minions? And when did comedy specials become so serious? The first episode is out now, it explores Beyonce's evolution as an artist and a business woman and how she's managed to command so much attention over the years. Have you seen Beyonce? I think that's how anyway, new episodes drop every Thursday morning and you can find into it wherever you listen, check it out, strong, recommend, check it out.

14 (14m 30s):
How is it that the sound of pop music went from this to this, to this? That's the kind of question we try to answer on. Switch on pop, listen closely with us and you'll hear how a single snare drum can tell you what decade you're in the sixties, seventies, eighties, or today, no matter who you are keeping up with. The 60,000 songs that are released to Spotify every day can be a chore. And it's even harder to understand what it all means. I'm Charlie Harding, the co-host of switched on pop a podcast by vulture about the making and meaning of popular music. Switched on pop will help guide you through the sounds of pop music over the decades and make sense of today's latest releases where you'll even hear from the likes of Jack Antonoff.

14 (15m 14s):
The

15 (15m 14s):
Things that pull me to write songs is when I feel something and it scares

14 (15m 18s):
Me, Robert plant,

16 (15m 19s):
We can talk about the structure and the chord progressions, but the bottom line is we just wanted to find songs which we could really empathize

14 (15m 25s):
With and Lizzo y'all

17 (15m 27s):
Ever do this. What other artists? This is so fun.

14 (15m 30s):
Subscribe to switch Don pop for free. Wherever you get podcasts

0 (15m 37s):
Today explained we're back with Alex Ward. He's a national security reporter for Politico. Alex, what is China saying about Pelosi's visit to the us? What is she J ping saying to his own people? What is he DMing to Taiwan's leaders? What do we know for certain about how China feels here?

2 (15m 56s):
So they're unhappy, right? So what they're planning again is some sort of increased aggression in the sense of missile strikes into the water airplane, incursion ships, et cetera. But what they've been saying is like, look in

18 (16m 11s):
A call that we're told lasted more than two hours. She warn president Biden. Those who play with fire will perish by it. It is hope that the us will be clear eye about this.

2 (16m 24s):
And he says that a lot, it's a pretty evocative phrase, but Chinese state run media commentators have basically been threatening and right. They take their cues from the leader and from the government, like they would consider shooting down. Pelosi's play. There's no real risk of that. Sorry, I should not say no real risk. It's like, you know, 0.01%. That would, that would be a Calamus moment. But there is fear in the white house and elsewhere from what the Chinese are saying that like, this is going to lead to short term, perhaps medium term escalation. And that's something, you know, no one can really afford at the moment. And especially with the Russia Ukraine thing going on. So, you know what China is basically saying is like, you should have stopped her from going, you know, Joe Biden, the fact that you didn't is a signal to us, that you really are trying to escalate this moment, because look, it's a democratic speaker of the house under a democratic president.

2 (17m 16s):
And you know, whether or not we know that it's kind of hard for Biden to tell Pelosi what to do. That doesn't translate well elsewhere in the world. I go, okay, well obviously this is a signal, even a wink wink signal. So a very unhappy China about this event.

0 (17m 34s):
What do China's threats about Taiwan actually mean what has happened in the recent past that we might worry about?

2 (17m 42s):
Well, I think we should first know that even though they might be sending signals to the us, it's mostly for a domestic audience, right? We gotta remember where thing is here. And I, and I, I try to always emphasize dictators have politics too. So S J ping has a party Congress this fall, the 20th communist party Congress in which he is both trying to finalize his forever rule and trying to get past some of his own policy preferences. And there are parts of that communist party that do not want him to lead for life and do also consider him weak. And how weak does this make ping? Look if Nancy Pelosi lands in Taiwan, you know, weeks months before that party conference.

2 (18m 24s):
Hmm. It is unsurprising then that she is, and, and his, you know, apparatus is putting out tons of messages, signaling strength, signaling. They would shoot down the plane, you know, showing that they would do more military stuff.

19 (18m 37s):
If speaker Pelosi visits, Taiwan said the Chinese foreign affairs spokesman, it would grossly interfere in China's internal affairs

2 (18m 45s):
Being quite, you know, boisterous about this visit.

19 (18m 50s):
He warned the Chinese military would never sit idly by.

2 (18m 54s):
And again, part of this is just sort of what happens in China, right? That you, when something goes wrong, you, you, you show your strength. You, you roar a bit, but of course the problem, everyone knows that like China doesn't want at the moment of war with Taiwan. Cause it doesn't feel like it's ready. And it would basically shift the entire narrative of what China's trying to do, which is a peaceful rise and could jeopardize it's it's perhaps ultimate goal of being the world's top power, right? If it effectively launches world Wari. So it is for the us, you know, in hopes of like, why not try to stop Pelosi from going, especially if you do, you could make the Biden administration look weak. So that's a win-win, but it is also mostly for the domestic audience of like, she is unhappy and he will respond strongly if this happens.

2 (19m 36s):
So it's a bit of a dual game here.

0 (19m 38s):
Why did Nancy Pelosi's plane go out of its way to avoid the south China? Sea is, is this like polite symbolism, China wouldn't really shoot down speaker Pelosi's plane, would it?

2 (19m 47s):
Probably not, but like, why take the risk? I think of it this way. I know it's not a perfect parallel, but like, but I I've, I've flown to, to Korea a lot. You know, we used to go over, Russia does it now, but it was always the moment when you, you came down over the Arctic through Russia and the fastest way would be to go over north Korean airspace, the plane avoids it, you go around North Korea and then you land at the airport. Part of it, of course, is, you know, North Korea, hasn't granted access to Korean airlines. So, you know, why take the risk? Why go anywhere near that aerospace? So again, not a perfect parallel, but you know, why even take that risk in south China sea and, or you're trying to do a subtle signal that like, Hey, I'm going to visit Taiwan. I'm not here to be provocative towards you, China,

0 (20m 26s):
If China and Taiwan were to go to war, what would that look like?

2 (20m 34s):
Basically what you're looking at is, you know, China is going to look to obliterate Taiwan with just a barrage of missiles, even before any troop show. Hmm. There are just so many missiles already pointed at Taiwan, right? On the other side of the straight, you know, you would, would take out large parts of Taipei, a lot of it's own missile systems. And you also wanna do that because it's a pretty treacherous, you know, 110 or so mile trip across the straight. And Taiwan's a lot of its own missiles and advanced, you know, airplanes on its own. So if you're trying, you're basically trying to just sort of mow the grass. Let's say before you even said foot on Whitney speeches, Andana's fortified speeches already, but you know, there are some of them that that can be landed on.

2 (21m 15s):
And so what most people have sort of come out to in terms of war games is China would very likely win. Of course, a lot, depends on whether or not the us and Japan and other countries get involved, but even so likely China would win, but not necessarily the victory we're all thinking about. They would probably take the Northern part of the island. Taipei would probably still may be in Taiwan's hands, but then you have a currently, already dangerous situation made way more dangerous and way more fraud by having China like right on the, the Taiwanese capital's doorstep and probably always threatening even more. And that gives China even greater leverage over this issue. But frankly, global politics,

0 (21m 53s):
Alex, would the us get involved if China and Taiwan went to war, what do we know about this?

2 (21m 58s):
The us has a, what's a policy of strategic ambiguity. So we do not say whether or not we will defend Taiwan, even though we've, you know, given billions of dollars to, for Taiwan to defend itself. Like that's basically our policy. You Taiwan defend yourself will help you do so, but you know, whether or not we will come to your defense will leave strategically ambiguous. Now president Joe Biden three times has said the us will come and defend Taiwan. And each time his staff has walked back, his commenting, the policy hasn't changed itself has said that. But you know, when you on three occasions and you're the president kind of go, yes, it is our policy to defend Taiwan that ups the anti, you know, that's almost, you know, defacto changes the policy.

2 (22m 40s):
You know, whether a future presence sort of continues that or follows as ambiguity since 1979, we don't know it does feel right. It does feel like, you know, if, if it was 50 50 before, it's like 55 45, now that the us would do so in which case, we're talking about really a massive conflict here, which would also bring in, you know, Japan, probably South Korea, other us allies and, and who knows what else it would be as close to world war II, if not world war II than you'd ever seen,

0 (23m 12s):
What Alex is a war between China and Taiwan, most likely to start over.

2 (23m 19s):
Well, anything that could spark a miscalculation and lead to a mistrust between, you know, the us Taiwan and China and Pelosi's visit. Isn't like the perfect thing for that. But it's darn close because it feels like right. If you're from, if you're in Beijing right now, you're going again. You know, the second in line to the presidency, you know, after the president and, and the vice president themselves, it's the speaker of the house of the same party as the president going to Taiwan to basically go democracy, small D you know is good. Human rights is good. We stand by Taiwan. Then you have Chinese military exercises in response to that because of Ping's own political needs.

2 (24m 1s):
You know, he's gotta act tough, which will then lead to some sort of perhaps stronger response from Taiwan and the us than who knows this could spiral out of control. That's sort of been the big issue here is that something small-ish causes a series of miscalculations and escalations that eventually leads to someone doing something very stupid and starts a war. Again, I wouldn't say Pelosi's visit is it, we have precedent, right? Former speaker Gingrich was there in 1997. Tons of American lawmakers have gone to Taiwan. This isn't new, but the fact that China's responding. So, you know, angrily to this could lead them to do something dumb, which leads Taiwan to the us to do something dumb. And then everyone just sort of dumbs upwards into war.

2 (24m 46s):
There has always been an inescapable tension at the heart of us policy towards Taiwan. We recognize one, China, China is the Karu, which we have relations, but we're still helping to defend this island that China wants to reintegrate to defend its, it was always going to be a band-aid over an irreconcilable problem. And so the reason it becomes such an issue is because, you know, it's a Tinder box, right? It it's so fraught with danger. It's, there's so many potential pathways to miscalculation that the last thing you wanna do is just sort of light the match Pelosi going there and isn't necessarily the match.

2 (25m 26s):
Right. But it is like her basically lifting, you know, taking the matchbook out of her pocket and going, Hmm. So there's a reason everyone's sort of angry about this. And especially with the time that we're in, like, do you really wanna even risk a second bigger fight? Not that it's likely, but do you even wanna risk it? And the problem with Pelosi's visit is that it does risk that unnecessary

0 (25m 59s):
Today's show was produced by John Aarons and miles Bryan. It was edited by Matthew Colette and fact checked by Laura Bullard, Tori Dominguez and Amanda Luellen. The rest of the team includes Halima haw had Modi Victoria, Chamberlain, aha artsy, and my cohost Sean Ram firm. Our supervising producer is Amina. Elsa. Thank you for the music Breakmaster cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld. We're distributed on public radio stations by w N Y C. And here's a thought if you like the show, rate us and review us on apple podcasts. If you don't like the show, Sean, what's your Gmail address. We'll get back to you. I'm Noel king today explained as part of the Vox media podcast network.