0 (1s):
Lot. 6 65. Then ladies and gentlemen, a poster for Vox dot com's production of today Explained, sold to Noel King of Podcasts. Thank you very much, lot 6 66. Then a chandelier in pieces. Some of you may recall the strange phenomenon of the Phantom of the Opera, a musical never fully explained. We are told ladies and gentlemen, that it ran longer than any other Broadway production. Perhaps we may frighten away the ghost of so many years with a little explanation. Gentlemen,

3 (59s):
RuPaul's Drag race champion Sasha Valor says some of the weirdest drags she's ever done was influenced by the Lord of the rinks.

4 (1m 7s):
They did a transformation from like a glamorous 1950s ingenu to Gollum and did the lip sync with both Gollum and Sneel fighting. And then I performed Kate Bush Weathering Heights,

3 (1m 23s):
Sasha Valor on her new book and the history of drag This week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast.

1 (1m 35s):
Today, plane is about to begin.

5 (1m 41s):
The Phantom of the Opera is closing for people who have not had the pleasure or the horror. Andrea Long Cho writer at Vulture. What is this show about?

6 (1m 50s):
So the Phantom of the Opera is a kind of gothic romance about a beautiful young soprano at a Paris Opera house who is being trained by a disembodied voice that she initially believes to be an angel sent by her father. In fact, it turns out to be the titular phantom of the opera, who is not a ghost, but is a man who lives in the bowels of the Opera House, who has fallen in love with her and who goes to extraordinary and often violent lengths to try and install her as the new star of the opera House.

1 (2m 37s):
Your days at the opera popular Heart number Christine Die, I will be singing on enjoy behalf tonight, be prepared for a great misfortune should you attempt to take place.

6 (2m 53s):
So she has, on the one hand the love of this terrifying but beautifully voiced musical genius. And on the other hand, the love of a childhood friend, upstanding, aristocratic lover. And so it is about the way this love triangle works out.

5 (3m 25s):
You describe it as a gothic romance, and I remember that there was definitely, there was a vibe in this play. There was an atmosphere, is what I should say. What is the atmosphere of Phantom?

6 (3m 39s):
Oh, I mean, it absolutely is a bodice ripper, lavish gold sets and huge draperies and Christine's performance. When she goes with the Phantom to his layer under the Opera house, she's dressed in this virginal white like dressing gown. The whole thing is meant to sort of imply sex without there ever actually being any. It has a kind of daytime eroticism to it, if you will.

6 (4m 22s):
It's supposed to be kind of family friendly and because it has to be intended to be a major tourist attraction.

5 (4m 44s):
The other thing I remember, Andrea Haisley is a chandelier plays a big part,

8 (4m 49s):
A chandelier in pieces.

5 (4m 52s):
What is the significance of the chandelier?

6 (4m 54s):
Again, the chandelier is one of the most famous parts of Phantom.

8 (4m 58s):
Some of you may recall the strange affair of the Phantom of the Opera. A mystery never fully explained.

6 (5m 8s):
The show begins with the chandelier, kind of broken and IPEs on the stage,

8 (5m 14s):
Ladies and gentlemen, that this is the very chandelier which figures in the famous

6 (5m 20s):
Disaster. It is raised to the ceiling, in this case, not the ceiling of the stage, but actually the ceiling of the Majestic Theater on 43rd Street,

8 (5m 29s):
Gentlemen.

6 (5m 37s):
And as that happened, the stage is transformed back from the early 19 hundreds to 1881, which is when the actual story is supposed to take place. And the chandelier, which is now all illuminated, has been raised and is, is over the orchestra seats at the end of Act one, the phantom drops the chandelier, and it comes sort of plummeting down. If you're in the orchestra section, it actually does really kind of look like it's going to hit you and then it swings back onto the stage. It is an incredibly famous moment in the history of Broadway, history of musical theater.

6 (6m 17s):
It is arguably the best part of the show, like the chandelier itself. It it, the show just sort of drops off in quality.

5 (6m 24s):
The plate abuse in London in 1986 comes to Broadway in 1988. And what is the initial reaction from audiences from critics?

6 (6m 33s):
There was something like $17 million or more in advanced ticket sales because of how successful it had already been on the West End. But Andrew Lloyd Weber had already had hits. So by the time Phantom comes in 1988, Katz has already been up for several years, was already a major, major hit. There's

9 (6m 55s):
No question. Phantom of the Opera, which opens officially next week on Broadway, is the entertainment event of the year.

6 (7m 2s):
So there's a massive amount of advanced press for this thing, and, and people loved it. I mean, audiences loved it. Critics had never been good to Angel Lloyd Weber through most of his career. The British liked him more, intended to give him higher marks than critics in New York. In New York. It was received at best in a kind of mixed way. So for instance, John Simon's review for New York Magazine back in 1988, the quote is something like, it's not that Andrew Lloyd Webber lacks an ear for melodies so much as that he has too much of an ear for other people's melodies. Ooh,

5 (7m 40s):
Ooh, why didn't critics take Andrew Lloyd Weber? Seriously, I'm looking at the list of things that, that he's responsible for here. Avita, Jesus Christ Superstar, Kaz, what was the

6 (7m 52s):
Deal? The first is that he tended to, he tended to be writing an imitation either of styles or a very specific artist. So like Joseph and the amazing technical Dreamcoat is first musical of his that was ever produced. Like Pharaoh is like an Elvis impersonator essentially. So it's that song that the Pharaoh sings is, you know, just a straight up kind of Elvis paste.

12 (8m 23s):
Fat cows

13 (8m 24s):
Came outta,

6 (8m 28s):
You know, Jesus Christ superstars a rock opera. Avita was sort of borrowing from quote unquote Latin American song styles. So he had, he, he, he didn't seem to have like very original musical ideas. He also tended to actually just take, or at least that's what it seemed like. So don't cry for me. Argentina from Avita seems to be scored to the box prelude sea major from the well-tempered clavier memory from Kaz very famous song, Donald Trump's favorite song,

2 (9m 2s):
Memory, turn Your Face to the Moon Live

6 (9m 8s):
Sounds a lot like,

14 (9m 10s):
Here's a little song that was recorded by Larry Clinton and his orchestra many, many moons ago,

15 (9m 18s):
Midnight.

6 (9m 24s):
I don't think it occurred to him that there was something wrong with taking other people's music. I mean, this is me speculating, but I think for him, if it sounded good, it sounded good. The second thing is that he was a very poor writer of dramatic music. His characters tended to just kind of stand there and tell you about themselves. They, they rarely was music used to actually advance character advanced plot. So it is this tragic lament about something no one knows. The cat just comes on and she's like, you know, disheveled and grimy and just kind of sad.

6 (10m 11s):
And she sings this kind of sad song. One gets a sense that he was sort of taking a shortcut, right? Instead of creating a dramatic situation that would be moving by dent of its emotional force, he's just going straightforward the emotion.

5 (10m 31s):
I think I saw Phantom somewhere around 2014, 2015, and I thought, I don't get it. This doesn't make any sense. This is not interesting. You have written curve ball that this play was perfect for the time of Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher, in short, perfect for the time in which it first appeared. Tell me what you mean by that. Well,

6 (10m 54s):
I, I should say first of all, that this is something that was not lost on critics at the time. You know, Frank Rich writing for the New York Times said that Phantom was sort of appropriate for our own gilded age.

0 (11m 7s):
Mr. Lloyd Webber's aesthetic has never been more baldly stated than in this show, which favors the decorative trappings of art over the troublesome substance of culture and finds more eroticism in Rococo opulence and conspicuous consumption than in love or sex.

6 (11m 23s):
It had a nice refreshing, you know, nostalgia for the days before feminism. So it there, there was something just sort of al altered fitting about having that kind of story for the era in which Margaret Thatcher had cut funding for the arts, had lowered taxes on the rich for which Andrew led Weber himself was very thankful. He was friendly with her at a dinner party with Maggie Thatcher. She once asked him, sort of jokingly to write her some music like the music he'd written for Avita. You know, he, he had no qualms about making money about commercial success.

6 (12m 9s):
He, you know, Lloyd Weber once said in an interview, he felt like the point of of writing music should be to write it for as many people as possible. So he was sort of a populist, he was a maximalist, he was an entrepreneur that was, I think, really appealing. British drama critic, Michael Billington wrote that in the eighties under Andrew Le Weber, the musical became Thatcherism in action. It is no accident that Thatcher seized on Lloyd Weber as a symbol of what theater should be. He embodied everything of which she approved. It seemed apt that the musical should become the dominant form of the 1980s since it represented Thatcherism in action.

6 (12m 50s):
What it celebrated was the triumph of individualism and profitability.

5 (12m 55s):
Can you hear echoes of Phantom in shows that we see

6 (12m 57s):
Today? It was a huge part of turning Broadway into a tourist attraction commercialization that started in the eighties and the nineties. You know, Disney would come in and clean up Times Square. We haven't

16 (13m 10s):
Heard Broadway is shining with a new mega hit, the stage version of The Lion King, the

6 (13m 15s):
Show, it moved musical theater closer to a kind of concert style approach, which has to do with, you know, ho mobility has to do with a focus on melody as opposed to harmonic complexity. You look at a show like Hamilton

17 (13m 32s):
Alexander Hamilton, my name is Alexander Hamilton,

6 (13m 38s):
The sort of the smash hit of the millennium really and is having its own effect on musical theater now is sung through almost in its entirety, which was a feature of Interlaid Webers shows in the eighties. There's like very little in the way of dramatic development outside of the way that the music is supposed to make us feel.

18 (14m 1s):
There is suffering to terrible to name.

6 (14m 4s):
So when the music gets sad, we're supposed to feel sad. When the music is happy, we're supposed to feel happy. We

19 (14m 9s):
Get back to politics. Please.

6 (14m 11s):
Yo, regardless of what's actually happening on the level of, of, you know, quote unquote plot or like listening to an album on its feet than it is like going to see a play where they also sing. So

5 (14m 24s):
Phantom Appears on Broadway in 88. What has happened to the show since?

6 (14m 29s):
The whole reason I wrote this piece is because I and a group of friends took our friend who was having a birthday to Phantom cuz we were like, I think like a lot of people, it's closing. It'll be sort of a lark. It won't be good, but it'll be fun. We were correct on the first count. It was not good and it was not fun. If we're talking about the, the current production that is up right now, there is, you know, all of this dead airtime. No one is jumping on their lines when they have lines. The tempos are, are slowed down from what you would expect to make it a little easier for everyone. It's, you know, it's not just that it's dated though, of course it, you know, it really, really is.

6 (15m 14s):
It's kind of lifeless. The current Phantom is, is trying but is not doing it is not sort of overcoming the material in the way that the Phantom has to in order for it to be interesting. You know, the Phantom it, it has to be incredibly charismatic. We have to believe that it's possible to be taken in by this man. You want it to be, you want it to have a kind of cult status or something. You want it to be so bad that it's good. In fact, it's just so bad

Coda.io (16m 10s):
Support fit. Today's show comes from Koda, as you well know, Q2 is in full swing, but it's never too late to take stock of what's working and what needs a refreshed Koda may be able to help your team run smoother with more efficiency. Koda is the dock where teams can work on entire projects from start to finish with everything they need, all in one place. That includes different documents, spreadsheets, and a stack of workflow tools all in one centralized location regardless of format. With Coda, you'll never have to ask what are the latest project updates cuz you'll have 'em right in front of you. Anyone know where the performance stats are? Cuz you'll have 'em right in front of you. Or is there a report about licenses I can see, cuz you'll have them right in front of you. You can try Coda today for free by going to Coda do io slash explained that coda.io. To get started for free, coda.io/explained,

3 (17m 14s):
Al Bruno ran the mob in Springfield, Massachusetts,

20 (17m 17s):
US growing up Italian and you want to be a criminal. Bruno was the guy that we looked up to

3 (17m 22s):
Till he was gunned down in 2003.

21 (17m 26s):
Al Bruno just took about eight to the body at the Italian club on Winthrop Street. I'm like, oh Jesus.

3 (17m 31s):
Bruno's murder was a mystery, but also an opportunity. It was law enforcement's best shot at taking down the Springfield Mafia once and for all. I'm Ellie honing host of Up Against the Mob, this Springfield crew. As a federal prosecutor, I took down over 100 mobsters, but nothing was as wild as what went down in Springfield.

22 (17m 58s):
Call 9 1 1. I've been shot

3 (18m 1s):
To solve the case. We'd have to convince made men to break their code of silence. You can't put your hands on 'em or you get killed. And as the dominoes started to fall, all

23 (18m 11s):
Of us just looked at each other like this case is blowing up,

3 (18m 14s):
Up against the mob, the Springfield crew from Cafe and the Vox Media podcast Network. Following your listening app to hear all seven episodes out. Now

5 (18m 36s):
It's today explained. We're back with writer Andrea Long two. Andrea, how was news that the Phantom of the Opera would close released to the public?

6 (18m 44s):
So fall 2022, they announced that Phantom was finally closing after 35 years.

24 (18m 52s):
We have some shocking news tonight from the theater district. The Phantom of the Opera, Broadway's longest running show just announced it will close within months. The

6 (18m 60s):
Announcement catching, they said it was gonna close on February 18th, 2023. The cause was that it kind of hadn't bounced back enough after lockdown. It's

25 (19m 11s):
Crazy that you were still feeling the effects of what that shutdown did to Broadway. You know, we're still feeling that. Just have the staple of New York of Broadway closed

6 (19m 20s):
Down. Of course, once News got out that it was closing, everyone wanted to, you know, attend the wake as it were. People

26 (19m 27s):
Have been stopping by the box office all day trying to score tickets to the final show, but they'll have to wait just a little bit

6 (19m 35s):
Longer. And so ticket sales have actually been doing very, very well and they extended the run into April. I

27 (19m 41s):
Am thrilled I have more time to

6 (19m 43s):
Go. The past couple weeks have been some of its most profitable weeks in the history of the show, but that is, you know, that is precisely because it is closing.

5 (19m 52s):
I guess the thing that I'm quite curious about is there are always gonna be people in the middle of the country for whom it is exciting to come and see a Broadway show. This is like the Uur Broadway show for the rest of us, right? It's a people's show thing is how I think of Phantom of the Opera. People still exist all across the country who are not like cool downtown New Yorkers did something shift in society that made this show less appealing to the people who would've stood up and applauded it 20 years ago, 30 years ago.

6 (20m 24s):
You know, in thinking a lot about Phantom have also had to consider this thing that you're kind of trying, you know, not to say too loudly, which is like, is it for, you know, plebs basically. I think the thing about it that was actually populist was that it tried to give you a way to understand music and musical theater. You know, it sat in an opera house and it was in a way a form of music appreciation. The Phantom is always talking about music, always talking about how you should listen to music, how you should let music kind of overtake you, I don't wanna say good, but like many savvy pieces of art or entertainment.

6 (21m 18s):
It was educating you in how to appreciate it even as you were watching it

28 (21m 26s):
Away from,

6 (21m 31s):
You know, has there been a social shift? I don't know that that is in a sense, sort of above my pay grade, but I think it's possible. It's no longer kind of as unique as it was now. Right? Now what you can also do, if you are one of these semi imaginary middle America types now you can see any one of a number of karaoke musicals, jukebox musicals like Mama Mia, and now there's like, there's gonna be a Britney Spears one, there's a Michael Jackson one, right? Like that, the proliferation of jukebox musicals that is part of the, the world that Phantom created.

5 (22m 11s):
And it may have been the first mega blockbuster or among the first mega blockbusters. But it doesn't mean, or does it, does it mean the end of them? Do audiences want something different?

6 (22m 21s):
Oh, no, no. I mean, audiences want something different in the sense that tastes do change, right? Like, has the Broadway musical gotten less commercial? Absolutely not. I mean, just absolutely not. The difference is now what audiences want or what producers think audiences want is on the one hand, the kind of in concert experience. On the other hand, a kind of naive political messaging. You know, so a great example of this is six, which is also a British musical. It's about the six wives of Henry vii,

29 (22m 56s):
Divorced, beheaded, died.

6 (23m 7s):
It is not a mega musical. In fact, a scale is much, much smaller. The whole thing is, is meant to be sort of intimate and more self-reflexive. But ultimately what the show is, each of the wives goes through and says, it talks about, you know, their story and they do it in specific pastes of like, this is the Beyonce song, this is the Adele song, this is the Ariana Grande song. In between they kind of banter on stage and say vaguely feminist things. And that is the whole show. And it's an, it's a one act. It has the Grayson compassion to be one act.

6 (23m 49s):
I mean, it's fine. It's a, it's a, I can tell you it's a hell of a lot better than Phantom. And so, you know, it's a much more modest endeavor, but it's taking some of the most important parts of that formula and then adding a kind of smug, vaguely liberal politic just to kind of justify itself and to meet audience tastes. Right? I mean, one of the things about the British mega musical in the eighties, which includes things like cats and Phantom and also Le Mis, is that they were, they were kind of global exports from the uk, you know, and it's still the case.

6 (24m 29s):
I don't know the number off the top of my head, but the fact that Phantom is closing on Broadway doesn't change the fact that Phantom remains in performance all over the world. And we'll probably stay that way for, for a long time. What

5 (24m 53s):
Did it do for Andrew Lloyd Weber? What became of him?

6 (24m 56s):
Oh, what became of him? He had already become so much before Phantom happened. He was massively wealthy. This was a man who had more money than he knew what to do with basically, other than trying to keep it out of the government's hands. You know, he, he has had a number of shows since Phantom and None has achieved the success of Phantom. He struggled to bring something new to the Broadway that he himself had kind of, you know, created. But he's also been like, you know, very fine. It's not like he's been suffering.

5 (25m 40s):
That was writer Andrea Long Chew Phantom of the Opera closes this weekend. Today's show was produced by Sena Petros and it was edited and edited and edited by Matthew Collette. Fact checking was a team effort led by Laura Bullard, so was engineering. It was led by Paul Robert Mosey with an assist from Patrick Boyd. I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.