0 (1s):
Some musicians are so big they only need one name. Madonna Prince, Beyonce, Shakira, Rihanna, Adele and Pharrell. Pharrell might be the smallest of those big names I just mentioned, but he's arguably played the biggest role out of all of them in shaping popular music over the last quarter century. He was the guy behind this, and this

1 (23s):
My milkshake brings,

0 (25s):
And this and this and this, and of course this, but also this. But now Pharrell's gonna try and conquer an entirely different industry. He's gonna be one of the top guys at the biggest luxury fashion house in the world. That story from the two guys who broke the news is coming up on today, explained

2 (60s):
Cash in, cash out, cash in, cash out, cash in, cash out, cash in, cash out, cash out, cash out, cash out, cash out, cash out, cash out, cash out. Cash out

0 (1m 9s):
Today. Explained Sean Ramas for last week. The Wall Street Journal shocked two worlds at once with one scoop.

3 (1m 16s):
Pharrell Williams has been hired by Louis Vito to be their men's wear creative director.

0 (1m 20s):
Nick Costa, based in Paris, was one of the very fashionable dudes behind the scoop.

3 (1m 27s):
Suddenly here we have like a multidisciplinary artist who, you know, obviously is known for his work in music, taken over one of the, the major major kind of luxury and fashion names in Europe. Lots of reaction, lots of people. Very, very positive, very excited about this. Also, some, maybe more traditionalist people saying, well, what about, you know, the, the kind of pure designers and should they not be at the top of, of house like Louis Vuitton creating the collection. So it's got lots of people talking, lots of reaction, and, and I think that is probably can only be a good thing for Louis.

0 (2m 22s):
You said a major, major fashion house, a major, major company. Tell us how major Louis V is and the company it belongs to. Louis

3 (2m 32s):
V is the biggest luxury company in the world by sales. It did more than $20 billion in sales last year, which is huge. Doubled in four years. And you know, there was always a question of how big can you get? Because obviously these luxury companies, these fashion houses play a lot on exclusivity. That's part of the how they keep prices high. How big can you get before you lose this exclusivity? Louis VI or Louis Vuitton is showing that it can become very, very, very big and still be, be very exclusive. Cash

0 (3m 1s):
And cash. Cash and

3 (3m 2s):
Cash. The conglomerate that they belong to, which is called L V M H, is now Europe's largest company. It's seen incredible growth in recent years

4 (3m 11s):
Despite the inflationary pressures. L V M H, which owns luxury brands, including Louis Vuitton and Christian Dior posted strong third quarter sales.

3 (3m 21s):
Louis Vuitton is the biggest brand, but there are others, which I'm sure lots of people were heard of. The second biggest brand, for example, is Dior, but the conglomerate spans, you know, it has henessy cognac, it has champagne, it has has many other fashion houses like Luve, Celine, it has hotels. They, they own luxury and you know, they're run now by the world's richest manor who is the CEO and chairman and controlling shareholder.

5 (3m 48s):
This man rubbing shoulders with the likes of Natalie Portman, Paul McCartney, and Rihanna is French business mogul. Bernard Arno

6 (3m 55s):
Luxury for, for me is how can you create desire?

5 (4m 1s):
IO is the world's richest person with a net worth of 191 billion at the start of 2023.

3 (4m 7s):
And yes, they're, they're, they're very big.

0 (4m 12s):
It sounds like the wealthiest man in the world can take a chance on someone like Pharrell Williams, but it also sounds like there's a lot at stake here asking a guy who made drop it like it's hot to be in charge of their, their brand. What did they say about this decision when they announced it?

3 (4m 31s):
So I think the first thing to say is that Louis Vu to describe himself as a cultural brand, modern than a fashion brand. And so it has to tap into culture, tap into art, try and find the next cool thing. I think the second thing to say is that there's a bit of a misconception in the luxury industry that luxury is simply based on heritage and tradition. And I think if that was the case, a a lot of these brands that are now in museums and we don't talk about would still be around. And what, what we've really seen in recent years is that it's also just hugely about innovation and that these are the brands that are being the most successful. And that if you stand still, you will die. People will get bored. And so this is what Louis Vuitton has done very, very successfully in recent years.

3 (5m 11s):
They've grown sales massively, but they they are taking risks. They are taking risks. And for now, these risks are paying off. And this, you know, this many people will see it as another risk.

0 (5m 19s):
Most people think of purses and maybe suitcases when they think of Louis Vuitton, but what are they hiring Pharrell to do? What, what exactly will he be in charge of?

3 (5m 29s):
So still to this day, I mean much of Louis Vuitton's profit, much of their sales comes from handbags, you know, suitcases, leather goods in general, which is historically what the company has done. I think what they use menswear for, and listen, menswear is a small percentage of their revenue, but what they use it for is to infuse the brand with that newness, right? That, that Pharrell will be able to bring and, and to make it cool and to make it hype and to make it desirable. What they're trying to do is, is create desire. And so I think that's what he'll be coming in to do. And that's also what Louis Vuitton has done very well with men's wear in general. As I say, it's a small percentage of their sales, a small percentage of their profit, but they get huge visibility.

3 (6m 11s):
And then when people buy this small leather good, the small Louis Vuitton wallet, let's say for for the aspirational customers or whatever, for the first time, they're actually buying into this like, incredibly exclusive universe that has all the best artists, all the, you know, all the best musicians, all the best celebrities. First

8 (6m 28s):
Of all, bts Army. I love the suits. The suits are so classic Louiston,

3 (6m 35s):
They have been very experimental. And he started really with Mark Jacobs.

9 (6m 40s):
I think it's good to not have too many or to not have rules and just enjoy what it is that you choose to wear or, or what fashion means

3 (6m 49s):
To you. He was the designer of Louis Vuitton and he did various collaborations, one of which was with Kanye West actually, but also with other, with other artists. And then in 2017 they did this collaboration with Supreme, which is this kind of cult, streetwear, skateboarding brand. And which people at the time thought was impossible, that Louis Vutton, this kind of like super exclusive luxury French brand, you know, from 1854, would do this collaboration with Supreme.

10 (7m 15s):
All right, so before I start unboxing on these LV boxes, I just wanna give you a little backstory about this release. It's been one of the hardest and most frustrating releases

3 (7m 27s):
To get and that kind of flew off the shelf and has started this kind of new era in fashion. Then the following year they hired Virgil Ablo.

11 (7m 33s):
Kanye and myself have been friends for 14 years now. We've always been driven by fashion, we've always been the key.

3 (7m 40s):
Volo was extremely effective at, you know, broadening the consumer base for Louis Vuitton. That created a lot of hype. He was another guy who was multidisciplinary.

11 (7m 50s):
So I'd studied engineering, then got a master's degree in architecture. And I explained to people it's this, it's like how the world works in a way. It's like an analytical thinking, like how do you make a building stand up? But then there's the, the, the ying yang part of it was like, what does the building look like and what does it do? How does it perform? Why is it relevant or so it's analytical plus like aesthetic. And I use that in fashion design or in my art practice

3 (8m 19s):
Was he was a dj, he was an architect, he was an artist in general. And what he did very, very well was just broadened the base of consumers who were interested in in Louis Vuitton. He never lost touch with, you know, those people who, those aspirational consumers who wanna buy their first, who, who kind of wanna make that quote unquote louiston money, right? And then go and buy like their first leather good or their first piece of, of Louis Vuitton. And so I think that's what he did very well. He bought many new people to that brand who then stayed loyal when, when we say that they've doubled sales within four years, they're the biggest luxury brand in the world. I think Verio Alo does, does have his share of, of credit to take for that

12 (9m 4s):
Alos impact clear as tribute after tribute from stars of fashion, music, sports and Hollywood. Pour in for El Williams writing, my Heart is broken

0 (9m 14s):
And he dies in November, 2021 of cancer. Does Virgil Ablo sort of pave the way for someone like Pharrell to be chosen as his successor?

3 (9m 25s):
Yeah, I think so. I think first of all, the two were close. And then secondly, unanimously p people say that Virgil Ablo was a success. And again, this is another risk which Louis Vuitton took. There was a lot of criticism when they hired someone like Virgil Alo, who again, was not a, not your typical designer. I think also what what we've had is an interim period where they've had nobody at, at the head of Louis Vuitton menswear for like a year and a half. And they've been working off like old designs that the Virgil Alo made. But also it shows that there is a team of designers that will be below Pharrell Williams working under him. And I think that's important for people to understand how fashion works. Pharrell Williams will set the general direction, but these guys, they came out again in the last fashion show and they took a bow and there's, there's, there's hundreds who are working at Louis Vuitton.

3 (10m 13s):
And so you can, you can have somebody who's almost like a figurehead, right? Or a godhead that that sets a general direction and you've got all these other people who work to, to actually make the, make the collection.

0 (10m 24s):
But you said Virgil Ablo was a sort of inarguable success, but you also mentioned that there's still a lot of hesitancy around Pharrell's appointment. Why is it that people still can't see someone like Pharrell in this role?

3 (10m 40s):
I think there are traditionalists who, who think that somebody who heads a fashion house should be a designer, should have formal training as a designer, should be able to cut, you know, cloth and, and Pharrell Williams, whilst he has a lot of experience in the fashion industry and he started, you know, a couple of brands of his own, has no formal training as a closed designer, right? And lots of the other names that have been mentioned as being in the running in recent months were these kind of more, I guess, typical pure designers who maybe some people felt were, were doing great work as smaller brands and should be given their chance at, at a huge, you know, better Martha, like Louis Vuitton.

3 (11m 22s):
As I said, it's split. There's also some people who are incredibly excited at where the industry is going and who think that this is a great appointment.

13 (11m 31s):
Take four.

3 (11m 35s):
And the other thing to say just quickly is, is L V M H the the empire to which Louis Vuitton B belongs? It's so big and there are so many fashion brands that many of their fashion brands do have a more traditional designer at the head of it, including by the way, Louis Vuitton women's wear. Just just to say that, you know, it depends what what you're trying to achieve. Whether you go for someone who's like a, a much more traditional designer, whether you go for multi-disciplinarian like, like for our Williams and obviously on the menswear side of Louis Vuitton, Louis Vuitton has looked at it and decided this, this is, this is what we are about and this this will, you know, this will bring us what, what we need right now.

0 (12m 23s):
That was Nick Costa who, who broke the story about Pharrell taking over men's wear at Louis V in the Wall Street Journal in a minute, Nick's colleague with whom he broke the story on the ever-increasing influence of celebrities in fashion, it's today explained,

1 (12m 52s):
Hears

0 (12m 53s):
Today, explain his back. Nick is not, but his colleague Jacob Gallagher is, and he's here to talk about celebrities in fashion. Pharrell is not the first, there have been a bunch in recent years,

14 (13m 3s):
But primarily on the women's side. So what we have seen in the past, I would say, you know, two decades or so is you have people like Victoria Beckham starting a brand and finding legitimacy with that.

15 (13m 15s):
To celebrate 10 years of her brand, Victoria Becker made her London Fashion Week debut showcasing her spring summer 2019 collection.

14 (13m 25s):
That brand still endures today under her name. You have people like frankly the Olson twins who left behind being child stars and started the row.

16 (13m 32s):
You got it

14 (13m 33s):
Dude. Which is, you know, this kind of luxury Upper East Side corporate ice queen look that a lot of wealthy women really gravitate towards. There's also epic flameouts, there's Lindsay Lohan designing for Angar.

17 (13m 46s):
The recent decision to hire actress and tabloid Queen Lindsay Lohan as the artistic director of an established Parisian fashion house came as something of a shock to most people in the fashion industry.

14 (13m 58s):
A lot of listeners probably won't remember that cuz it was this much mocked blip for the brand and she was promptly fired. And of course, you know, we can't have this conversation without mentioning Kanye West, now known as Ye, who made several runs at the runway over the years, often with the backing of Adidas. And he, you know, there were times where he really did find legitimacy and where what he was doing was looked at as being really influential, but then it would kind of fizzle and drop out. And obviously his runway show in Paris not that long ago was kind of the beginning of the downfall for him of late another

18 (14m 32s):
Day. Another Kanye West controversy this time over shirts sporting the phrase quote, white Lives Matter.

14 (14m 41s):
I think that though it's also important just contextually to note that a lot of designers through their time making clothing have become what we would call mainstream celebrities. You know, Carl Lagerfeld comes to mind. Someone who appeared in movies lent his voice to the Grand Theft auto video games.

19 (15m 0s):
Good morning, Liberty City. I slept in a cocoon. You too. This morning reminds me of Monte Carlo, something about the

14 (15m 7s):
Wave. Ralph Lauren appears on Friends. Hi Ralph.

20 (15m 9s):
Hi Kim

14 (15m 14s):
Martin Score says he makes a documentary about Giorgio Armani and being a celebrity, being a public figure is kind of part and parcel with being a creative director these days.

0 (15m 24s):
I think I get why some of the biggest designers in the world eventually becomes celebrities. But I'm curious what the success rate in your view is of the celebrities becoming designers from Victoria Beckham to the Olson twins to Lindsay Lowen. I didn't even know about that one to maybe Kanye West or, or certainly Robin Fenty

21 (15m 46s):
Right now.

14 (15m 48s):
Rihanna is worth mentioning in this conversation because Rihanna has a partnership or has a contract rather with L V M H, which is the corporate conglomerate that Louis Vuitton is under. Fenty Beauty, as we understand is this is a successful endeavor, but there was a Fenty apparel line that fizzled after two years. Hi

22 (16m 7s):
Vogue, it's Rihanna and welcome to Paris. Today I'm gonna be showing you some pieces from my new collection.

14 (16m 14s):
So that's all to say that full fledged brands that are designed by celebrities, I think the success rate is fairly low. The celebrity working with the fashion brand, we often see that happen as a collaboration, which, you know, our understanding of the vast majority of those is that perhaps not even the celebrity, someone from their creative team maybe just kind of goes in at the very end and goes that, that I like that. I don't like that, that's cool. I'd wear that, that's cool. Make that, you know, put that in purple and put it in the line. And those partnerships are lucrative on both ends, but they're not necessarily enduring and they certainly, you know, kind of to the public, it can be hard to keep up with them.

14 (16m 54s):
They happen so frequently. It can be hard to say X fashion Nova Collection is, you know, making me more excited than X, you know, h and m collection. Louis Vuitton could have partnered with Pharrell on a more temporary basis as Chanel did. But they're clearly putting a lot of backing behind him and they're putting a lot of confidence in him by saying, no, this guy is our creative director, he signed the contract, we're ready to go with him. And however long that contract may be, however long his tenure might last for right now, they're clearly putting their support behind him. For

0 (17m 27s):
People who best know Pharrell as like the guy who sings that happy song, which by the way I hate, I hate it so much. Tell us about his, his background in fashion other than he's consistently been a very stylish looking dude for like 25 years. I

14 (17m 44s):
Was gonna say. So that that is one part of it for sure is that he is a very stylish guy. The other part of it is that, you know, for really almost exactly 20 years now, he has been running businesses and working with fashion brands, designing clothing, billionaire Boys Club, which he started with Nigo, who's the Japanese designer behind a bathing ape. And who now is the creative director of Kenzo, which is also an L V M H brand, keeping it all in the family. Billionaire Boys Club was one of those early kind of pioneering street wear brands all over print hoodies that zipped all the way up, you know, shirts with rockets on them, a lot of skate influence. He had a skate shoe brand called ice cream that, you know, neon colored shoes, shoes with diamonds and dollar bills on them.

14 (18m 28s):
And you know, there was this kind of, he, he identified that that was this market that was out there that people that perhaps listen to the music that he produced were would be into. And he really capitalized on it. But Pharrell also, it's important to note that he has this real, where Billionaire Boys Club, those t-shirts are, you know, comparatively affordable. This guy also has a real taste for luxury. Like Pharrell loves a luxury at good. You know, there's photos of him holding Louis Louis Vuitton luggage going back, you know, 20 years.

0 (19m 2s):
Is that why his music festival in DC was so expensive last summer?

14 (19m 8s):
Well, I think that every music festival is expensive to an extent, but yeah, yeah, I mean, I mean, it, it was not that long ago that Pharrell did a collaboration with Chanel. You know, he and Karl Lagerfeld had this ongoing kind of creative dialogue. Pharrell walked in Chanel collections. This is

23 (19m 26s):
A new time, it's a new era, it's exciting. Let's see where it goes. Chanel,

14 (19m 30s):
I mean, those are really expensive clothes, you know, the, these are, these are candy colored loafers that are y you know, four and five figures. These clothes are expensive. But I would say in terms of the luxury space, what people are looking at now as kind of the example of what Pharrell might be able to do or an exa you know, saying, well he's done this before. He partnered with Mark Jacobs when Mark Jacobs was the creative director at Louis Vuitton on these millionaire sunglasses that, you know, to a certain fashion consumer. These are iconic. He's been through the doors of that atelier before. He seemingly our understanding is, or or our interpretation of that is that he has a real understanding of how the design process works at these studios.

14 (20m 13s):
He's not necessarily going in cold. And again, I think it just kind of goes to show that he's been working toward this for several decades and it's arrived for him.

0 (20m 23s):
Do you think he's got something to prove here? You make it sound like he's already proven everything he needs to prove.

14 (20m 28s):
Well, he is always gonna have something to prove fans of Virgil and consumers that were used to his look, I would say they're primed to like what Pharrell's going to do, but he certainly does have something to proof. There is not a world in which he's gonna get universal acclaimed just because of who sh who he is. People have a short memory in fashion, you know, they might like you one season and dislike you the next and consumers can taste can turn really, really quickly. And I think that you could say that the pathway that Louis Vuitton is, is taking right now is a doubling down a continuation. They're trying to really expand upon something that they have this kind of kernel that they were left with after Virgil died and they're trying to make it bigger now.

0 (21m 9s):
So high fashion might get more and more accessible, but fat chance it gets any cheaper, huh?

14 (21m 15s):
I was gonna say accessible is relative, I think accessible has, you know, you have to parse out the definition of accessible at this point. Like, you know, it, it, I don't think it will ever get accessible in price. I mean these companies are truly just raising their prices. That is what they do these days. And they, you know, luxury houses speaking broadly have been on the record saying, well, we're raising our prices because we can and because that's what's happening across the market. But in terms of a look, you know, the, this prioritization of sneakers and t-shirts and, you know, sweaters and wide leg trousers, these things that are kind of more everyday items so to speak, I think that that really is an indication they really wanna occupy everyday real estate in someone's wardrobe.

24 (22m 1s):
Yo yo, I go by Pharrell from the Neptunes and I just want to let y'all know, y'all, I'm, your push is about the feel, about feel something, something that they never come on.

0 (22m 20s):
That was Jake Gallagher from the Wall Street Journal before him. You heard from his colleague Nick Costa. They're both very stylish but in completely different ways. I noticed you can read them at the Wall Street Journal. Our show day was produced Bys Petros. It was edited by Jolie Myers fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Paul Robert Mosey. The show's called today Explained

24 (22m 41s):
On Peewee Kirkland Platinum on the Block with consistent hits while Pharrell keep talking this music, Patty Cady cake on the Bakers Man, I bake them cakes as fast as I can and you can tell by how my bread stack up then disguise it, his wraps or the fed back off. Watch it like my whip, like my top.