0 (1s):
The second Hamas attacked Israeli civilians and started a war back in October. Everyone feared it would spill out into a broader regional conflict. People were thinking about the West Bank, Lebanon Iran, you know, land, but one of the most conspicuous spinoffs of this war, but been on water

3 (21s):
Missile attacks on cargo ships in the red Sea used to be unthinkable. Since November Houthis fighters have carried out more than 20 of them.

0 (31s):
A rebel group from Yemen has been attacking ships in the red Sea for months now. We will

4 (36s):
Continue to prevent all vessels, regardless of their nationalities headed to the Israeli seaports. until the necessary food and medical supplies are delivered to our brothers in the Gaza Strip

0 (46s):
And, the United States has been blowing up boats. In return. We're gonna try and figure out what The Houthis want and whether they'll get it on today. Explained

Unexplainable podcast (59s):
This week on unexplainable Can scientists save the rainforest by listening to it? Here we go. Well, this is not gonna work. It's in the day. Got it, got it, got it. 20 birds. Let me see if there's anything from the night that's a poison frog. Wait, wait, wait. Where the, I don't. Okay. That's a poison frog. How to make a stethoscope for the rainforest. That's an unexplainable this week for follow for new episodes every Wednesday.

0 (1m 41s):
Sean Ramas firm joined by Joshua Keating, making his today explained debut. Joshua writes about the world for Vox and he iss here to tell us about this group from Yemen threatening global commerce. The Houthis

6 (1m 53s):
The Houthis, which are a Iran backed rebel group that controls a large swath of Yemen, have been launching attacks on container shipping through the Red Sea. pretty quickly after the October seventh attacks, The Houthis declared their solidarity with Palestinians fighting Israel and actually launched some long range missiles at Israel, which were intercepted either by Israel air defenses or by the US military in the region. Because

8 (2m 28s):
Yemen's Houthis rebels have claimed responsibility for a series of drones and missiles launched towards Israel's coastal holiday city of iat. Israel reported destroying an aerial target over the red Sea.

6 (2m 42s):
They've since shifted tactics to sort of targeting the, the shipping through this area. The

9 (2m 47s):
Leader Mohamed Al Houthis sitting down for a rare interview telling a b, C news that the group will escalate strikes on any ship linked to Israel countries that attack us will be a legitimate target for us, such as the ships belonging to the usurping entity or heading to it.

6 (3m 6s):
A lot of the ships they've attacked actually have no connection to Israel or very little connection to Israel. But at this point, there have been about 25 attacks by The Houthis against merchant vessels traveling through the red Sea. And it's caused a great deal of chaos in the global shipping industry. The one that kind of kicked this whole thing off was in late November when The Houthis rebels on helicopters, basically seized the Galaxy leader in Israeli linked cargo ship and, and took it to Yemen where it's still being held.

12 (3m 41s):
Its fighters appeared to land by helicopter onto the top deck. They brandished weapons at the ship's crew and ordered them to lie down

6 (3m 50s):
The Sea. Basically, they are being held essentially as hostages with pretty limited communication with the outside world. And you know, the way the shipping industry works, these ships are, it could be owned by Maersk, a Danish company, but you know, flagged in Malta or Liberia in the case of the Galaxy leader, most of the crew came from the Philippines So. there. Massive numbers of countries sort of involved in just one of these ships, but mostly attacks haven't been like that. There've been a few different types that they've tried. A few different methods.

3 (4m 26s):
The latest target of Yemens Houthis Norwegian tanker strand up struck by a Missile, its crew is unharmed. Its owner, says it traveled from Malaysia heading to Italy with a shipment of palm

6 (4m 40s):
Oil. There was an attack in recent days using a sort of, basically an un crewed boat that exploded. And one that, you know, a lot of defense experts I talked to that really caught their eye is The. Houthis have been firing ballistic missiles at ships. So a ballistic Missile as opposed to a cruise Missile is one that goes a lot higher and a lot faster basically, and is a lot more difficult to intercept. And you know, this may have been the first ever use of an anti-ship. Ballistic Missile anywhere in the world.

0 (5m 13s):
So are The Houthis trying to steal cargo here, like proper pirates? Or are they just in it to be disruptors?

6 (5m 19s):
They're in it for the disruption. I mean, they basically, they want to target, you know, both shipping that's sort of directly linked to Israel or linked to countries that are supporting Israel in its war in Gaza. So, you know, th this is a way that they've found it kind of globalized. The conflict impose costs on the international community for the actions Israel is taking in Gaza. And I think you can sort of see this in the context of a wider set of actions by Iran backed groups in the Middle East. And so, you know, we've seen that with Hezbollah launching rockets into Northern Israel.

6 (5m 59s):
We've seen that with these militias attacking US troops in Iraq and Syria, which the US has begun retaliating against. And so I think The Houthis attacks you can see as part of that. Who is this group that's attacking these ships, that's hijacking these ships? Who are The Houthis? What's their origin story? So the official name, if the group is Anala, they're usually called The Houthis. They're named after their founder Hussein Al Houthis and his family, which is still kind of in a leadership role. They're, which is a minority Shia Muslim sect. They are based primarily in Northern Yemen. And they first kind of came on the scene as a rebel group in the 1990s fighting against Ali Abdula Sala who's the sort of longtime dictator of Yemen.

15 (6m 47s):
I ask for forgiveness from all my people, men and women for any shortcomings during my 33 year long rule.

6 (6m 55s):
Salo was overthrown amid Arab Spring protests in 2012, which left a kind of power vacuum that The Houthis took advantage of

13 (7m 4s):
Shia Houthi Rebels have bombarded the president of Yemen's home and are trying to overthrow the government, says the information minister,

6 (7m 11s):
And they seize the capital city sauna in 2014. you know, despite the fact that they hold the Capitol, they're not recognized as the Yemeni government by the international community. They're still considered a rebel group.

16 (7m 23s):
Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo has announced he will designate The Houthis as a foreign terrorist organization and Abdul Malakal Houthis and two other leaders as terrorists.

6 (7m 32s):
And they received substantial funding and weaponry from Iran. And they've been fighting this extremely brutal war against Yemen's, internationally recognized government along with forces from an international coalition, which is led by Saudi Arabia and has also received quite a bit of support from the US as well. It's been a absolutely brutal war. They, about 377,000 people have been killed. Most of those are actually not due to the fighting themselves, but due to things like malnutrition, unsafe water, famine,

9 (8m 4s):
Yemen's eight year long war has caused millions to flee their homes to camps like Al Jacia on the West Coast. Within seconds of arriving, we were surrounded by people begging for food and help. We don't even have a morsel, not a bit of rice to eat. He says we have nothing.

6 (8m 23s):
Things have gotten a bit better recently, actually, like there was a ceasefire brokered by the UN in 2022. And since then the fighting has died down. And the Saudis have actually been holding talks with The Houthis about sort of ongoing peace talks, which are going on up until a few weeks before the October 7th attacks. The thing about The Houthis is, is they've never hid that they have sort of international ambitions. The official slogan of the group is God is Great Death to America, death to Israel, curse on the Jews and victory for Islam. So not exactly subtle, but you know, despite all that they, they've generally been thought of as just, you know, a threat to Yemen itself and or just a factor in Yemen or for the countries like Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates who've been sort of actively involved in this coalition.

6 (9m 16s):
This is the first time that they've really done something globally. On the scale, I'd say do The Houthis have an advantage here? Well, I would say the advantage they have in this case is geography. They're basically two entrances to the red Sea in the north. There's the Suez Canal in the South. There's this narrow 20 mile straight ba almond between Yemen on the Arabian Peninsula and Djibouti on the coast of Africa. And the fact that about 12% of global trade has to pass through this very, very narrow choke point, gives them some leverage. It means that with fairly limited resources, they can disrupt a whole lot of global commerce just because there's this very narrow area and there's, if you want to go through the red Sea, there's no way around it.

6 (10m 3s):
So what, what does that mean? Does that mean this stops when The Houthis decide they don't wanna do it anymore? What has basically happened is that in December the US announced the, this sort of international coalition, which they're calling Operation Prosperity Guardian. This was basically done at the behest of the shipping companies to sort of make transit through the Red Sea safe. Again, there was a pretty stunning op-ed in Lloyd's list, which is the kind of official journal of the international shipping industry, which actually explicitly called for a return of gunboat diplomacy using this sort of term from the 19th century. That the same way the British Namie like protected shipping in the 19th century, that the international community should be doing this again.

8 (10m 50s):
Let gunboat diplomacy be confined to the past. But there are legitimate uses of gunboats in the 21st century. The continued flow of world trade is one of them.

6 (10m 60s):
Wow. Shots fired from Lloyd's List. Yeah, so we have these, a large flotilla contingent of ships in the Red Sea, the

17 (11m 10s):
US Defense Department saying four boats with Houthis rebels from Yemen firing on US Namie helicopters, those choppers firing back, sinking three of the four ships and killing all crew members on board. The fourth boat got away.

6 (11m 24s):
They're pretty effective it seems like at shooting down these drones and missiles. There was an incident in recent days where they actually sunk for Houthis attack boats. So it's getting a little more tense. The Houthis have said they're not gonna stop that. you know, they view this as a moral mission on behalf of the people of Gaza, on behalf of the Palestinian cause they're, they're gonna keep fighting as long as the war in Gaza continues. The question now is one, is the US gonna sort of escalate by actually attacking targets in Yemen, which would be a pretty major escalation. And two, like can they do enough in the red Sea to make these shipping companies feel safe?

6 (12m 6s):
The answer for now is not

0 (12m 14s):
How The Houthis disruptions in the Red Sea affect you, me and the rest of the world when we're back on today, explained

Ramp (12m 38s):
Support for today. Explain comes from Ramp. If you're looking for a better way to do the finances for your business, Ramp would like to suggest that you check out Ramp. Ramp is a corporate card and spend management software designed to help you save time and put money back in your pocket. Here's what Ramp promises it can give your finance teams unparalleled control and insight into company spending. Issue cards with limits and restrictions. Automate your time consuming monthly expense reports. Ramps accounting software collects receipts, categorizes those expenses in real time. No more chasing down receipts or people. Whether you have five employees or 500 says Ramp. It's easy to get set up with when you get set up. You can start making payments in less than 15 minutes. And right now you can get 250 bucks when you join Ramp. You can go to Ramp dot com slash explained Ramp dot com slash explained RAP dot com slash explained

Robinhood (13m 43s):
Support for the program today comes from Robinhood. There are lots of ways to potentially boost your investments these days and even more options on where to stash 'em. If you're interested in finding new ways to invest, you might consider moving your brokerage account over to Robinhood. Whether you're transferring $1,000 or $2 million right now, Robinhood is offering an unlimited 1% bonus on your assets. Unlimited as in no cap as the kids say. You can see why over 3 million people have rated Robinhood five stars on the app store according to Robinhood. You can visit Robinhood dot com slash explain to claim your bonus terms apply to the bonus. See full bonus terms at Robinhood dot com. Investments offered through Robinhood Financial LLC investing is risky.

TIAA (14m 49s):
TIAA is on a mission. Why? Because 54% of black Americans don't have enough savings to retire. So in collaboration with big name artists like Wyclef Jean TIAA released paper write new music inspiring a new financial future with 100% of streaming sales going to a non-profit that teaches students how to invest stream paper right now and help close the gap.

18 (15m 18s):
Look

19 (15m 18s):
At me. Sure. Look

20 (15m 20s):
At me. Sure. I'm the captain now

0 (15m 22s):
Today Explained is back with Josh Keating. Josh, you mentioned that The Houthis will basically stop hijacking ships when they feel like it. How are shipping companies responding to that?

6 (15m 31s):
Well the big announcement last week was that Maersk, the major Dana Shipping company, basically said it's gonna keep sending its ships all the way around Africa.

21 (15m 39s):
Maersk says one of its container shipments was targeted by a Missile allegedly coming from a part of Yemen control by The Houthis Rebels

6 (15m 48s):
And several other of the major shippers have done the same.

20 (15m 51s):
One in five commercial ships are now avoiding the Red Sea because of the threat of attack. The Red Sea accounts for 15% of the world's shipping and plays a crucial part in the global supply chain. It

6 (16m 4s):
Should be mentioned there is still shipping happening in the Red Sea. The volume is down about 20%, which tells you there there is still a lot of shipping happening. The

20 (16m 11s):
Sewers Canal authority is very keen for shipping to continue making that passage through the Red Sea. They've released a statement. They say the navigation through the sewers canal flows normally as usual. Sewers canal will remain the fastest and shortest route as opposed to of course that route around the Cape of Good Hope.

6 (16m 28s):
The Houthis interestingly don't seem to be targeting energy shipments like oil and gas shipments, yet they're really focusing on these container ships. Hmm. Perhaps 'cause those are like more associated with the Western powers they accuse of faking Israel rather than, you know, middle Eastern countries that are producing the energy. Hmm. It's been interesting to hear the way the Biden administration has sort of presented this. I was on a call with one senior administration official last week who was basically trying to sort of distance this operation from the US support for Israel and Gaza basically saying these are two different things. Hmm. That, you know, protecting commerce and the red Sea protecting the global economy, like the, this is something everybody should be signing up for.

6 (17m 14s):
Like whatever they think about the war in Gaza, there

22 (17m 18s):
Is no justification for these attacks on global commerce. And we hope the world will join us in condemning these attacks and working to stop them. Our collective e efforts remain open for additional countries to join in the crucial mission of defending the free flow of commerce in the red Sea.

6 (17m 33s):
I'm not sure that that message is quite getting across, given that, you know, they, they announced that there are gonna be about 20 countries in this coalition that they've formed, but they've only publicized the names of 12 of them, which, which suggests that there are a few countries that don't really want to be associated with a US-led military effort in the Middle East right now.

22 (17m 54s):
Yesterday the Department of Defense announced the establishment of Operation Prosperity Guardian, a multinational security initiative focused on advancing security in the red Sea. In the face of this threat, we welcome the participation of our allies and partners, the United Kingdom, Bahrain, Canada, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Seychelles, and Spain in confronting the threat.

0 (18m 15s):
And that's why the United States is out there blowing up Houthis vessels.

6 (18m 19s):
Well, it's been a long standing national security priority of the United States since the seventies, if not earlier, to make sure that you know, particularly energy, but that trade can continue through this waterway. In the 1980s, there was a sort of series of us Iran skirmishes in this called the tanker war.

23 (18m 43s):
The war on land between Iran and Iraq is spilling over into the Sea with western tankers being the sitting targets for both sides. If they're going to pick up oil from Iran, they face the threat of attack by Iraqi planes armed with exo set missiles. If they're going to the oil terminals on the other side, they face attack by Iranian planes.

6 (19m 3s):
So there's some precedent actually for sort of us and Iran or Iran backed forces kind of exchanging fire to keep energy flowing from that region. So, you know, the, the US has more military resources in that region than any other country and is the one that shipping companies kind of turn to when, when this happens. you know, in that context. Another country that I didn't mention earlier is China, which also relies heavily on this Sea route, both for, you know, shipping goods to Europe and for shipping energy from the Middle East. Hmm. They are not involved in operation prosperity guardian.

6 (19m 44s):
They do not appear to be involved militarily in any way. Huh. And the US doesn't seem in a hurry to involve them for whatever reason. So that, that's an interesting wrinkle at this. Particularly some of the ships that have come under attack have actually been Hong Kong flagged. So you would think they would have some stake in this in years past the US and China actually did collaborate combating a Somali piracy, like not too far away from this, for instance. But this time no collaboration between the US and China on this problem. Hmm.

0 (20m 16s):
This feels like, just like the latest reminder of how fragile our shipping is. There have been many recent reminders, right?

6 (20m 24s):
Yeah. I mean, people may remember two years ago when a the ever given a cargo ship got lodged sideways in the Suez Canal and shut that down for about a week. The 400

24 (20m 34s):
Meter long ever given got stuck on Tuesday morning running a ground in high winds, reportedly after a power failure on board. A fleet of tugboats has been trying to refl the mega ship ever since. While a digger tiny by comparison tries to extricate her bow from the Eastern Bank.

6 (20m 52s):
That only lasted for a week and it was sort of much lower stakes. This has the potential to be a much bigger disruption. I've spent most of the last two years up until October, writing about the war in Ukraine. It's been my main focus. And that that's been another case where these issues have come into play because there was sort of heavily mining and military activity in the black Sea. you know, Russia basically effectively blockaded the southern coast of Ukraine. And in that case, the key commodity wasn't energy or finished goods, it was grain ukraine's, a major exporter of grain, especially too actually countries like Egypt and, and in the Middle East and Africa.

6 (21m 34s):
And so, you know, the UN got involved. There was a sort of deal that was brokered to allow grain shipments through that fell apart. But that was another, a lot of the same issues actually were involved there. It was, it was shippers needing assurances that they'd be safe, like worrying about, you know, freight rates and insurance. And it's just kind of a reminder of how much disruption that geopolitical tensions can cause this industry that the global economy could not function without,

0 (22m 3s):
Which I think people forget. Right. Because you don't ever see a cargo ship unless you live in a port city. And even then maybe you don't, you just order something online and in two days or whatever, it's at your doorstep.

6 (22m 16s):
Right. And, and people involved in this industry say that like people only pay attention to them when something goes wrong. And it's not just war that does this. I mean, an interesting dynamic right now is that at the same time the Suez route is blocked, the Panama Canal is actually operating at substantially re reduced capacity because of drought. Severe

0 (22m 38s):
Drought is drying up the lakes that feed the canal. Plunging water levels so low, they've had to cut the number of vessels passing through from 36 to 32 per day delaying goods and creating a growing waiting room of ships out at Sea. Some vessels are also being forced to carry up to 40% less cargo and slow down so they don't hit bottom.

6 (23m 1s):
And so, you know, right now we're in this situation where you have both a war in the Middle East and the effects of climate change in Central America just sort of combining to create this massive disruption in the global shipping industry. This is a pretty adaptable industry. They're, they're kind of used to dealing with contingencies, with bad weather, with, with, you know, closed canals. It's gonna cause a disruption. you know, we're, we're sort of through the Christmas season now, which they say is a major time for the shipping industry that the next one to watch is in February.

6 (23m 48s):
It's gonna be Lunar New Year in China, which is like a huge, huge time for commerce in that country and, and is always a time when there's a major uptick in shipping. Hmm. But a lot of industry experts have been, you know, reading and talking to say like, we may be in for a disruption that's sort of on par with what we saw in Covid when, you know, you saw factories shutting down and shipping and, you know, there were shortages of, you know, certain goods. 'cause parts couldn't get there on time. Like it's just, we're we're sort of used to this just in time manufacturing model, which depends on, you know, parts getting there on time, finished goods moving around. And for all the like one click e-commerce of it, a lot of it's still like metal boxes on boats.

6 (24m 33s):
And when something blocks those metal boxes for moving, it causes disruptions like all up and down the supply chain.

0 (25m 3s):
Joshua Keating, you can call him Josh. He writes about the world for Vox. You can read him at Vox dot com. We also had help with today's show from Julian Borger at The Guardian. Thanks Julian Halima Shaw and Haddi Mawajdeh made our show today. Matthew Collette edited Laura Bullard and Amanda Lewellyn fact checked Patrick Boyd mixed and mastered. This is today explained.