1 (1s):
Support for the show tonight comes from a show called made to fail a broken unemployment system in Florida crowded elections in Wisconsin during a pandemic rampant political corruption and Georgia. All these things didn't have to happen and then made to fail they connect the dots between these government failures and pull back the curtain on policies that time and again have failed the people they were supposed to protect and then the end talk about how they weren't accidents they were by design made to fail. Well, you can find it wherever you get your podcasts. the federal government has blocked access to abortion for people with low incomes for over 40 years through the Hyde Amendment enough is enough Joe Biden pledge to an ACLU volunteer that he'd end the Hyde Amendment and if elected we need him to follow through on that pledge Biden can lead on reproductive Freedom by removing bands on coverage in his first budget and refusing to sign bills with hide restrictions the time to end hide is now paid for by American civil liberties Union Inc rights for all dot-org President Trump is looking for a win on covid-19.

1 (1m 20s):
There's an election and a convention and we're creeping up on six million confirmed cases in the United States something like 200,000 deaths around the corner. It is not a rose. Picture but a breakthrough that be something to talk about and now he's talking about plasma Boomer or van. You've been listening for Vox. What's up with plasma all of a sudden on Sunday the Food and Drug Administration held a press conference at the White House and they announced that they were granting an emergency use authorization for convalescent plasma to treat covid-19. The FDA has issued an emergency.

1 (2m 3s):
Use the authorization and that's such a powerful term emergency use authorization for a treatment known as convalescent plasma. And what does that even mean? Well convalescent is just a fancy word for saying somebody who got sick with the disease but got better plasma is the part of blood that's left behind when you centrifuge blood and separates out the blood cells from the liquid and plasma is the liquid that's left behind but it also Contain some of the clotting factors and the idea is in that liquid there might be something that can help people who are currently sick get better and the logic is that people who have recovered have generated antibodies and other kinds of immune factors that are in that plasma and if you give that to somebody who's currently think that could help him get better faster.

1 (2m 53s):
So this isn't like a vaccine. This is a way to help people who already have code just to be clear. Yeah. It's definitely meant as a treatment there have been some experiments with using it as a prophylactic for people who may be exposed but it's definitely not a vaccine. It's what's called passive immunity. You're taking somebody else's antibodies borrowing them for a while and that will help you fight off the infection. If it's there by granting the emergency use authorization. What they're effectively saying is that they think there is enough evidence here to show that there's more good than harm from this kind of treatment and by doing so they give hospitals more flexibility to use this as a treatment for their own patients. Sleeve it has been used but it was mainly on sort of an emergency basis as sort of Last Resort for patients who are in very dire need or on an experimental basis.

1 (3m 41s):
And now by offering this emergency use authorization more hospitals can use it under more circumstances. Hmm, you know, I didn't catch that White House Press Conference who was there and who was speaking well in addition to President Donald Trump. There was Department of Health and Human Services secretary alexei's are Our and most notably the head of the Food and Drug administration's. Dr. Stephen hunt and he was the one that was talking up the promise of using convalescent plasma as a treatment those scientists have concluded that covid-19 convalescent plasma is safe and shows promising efficacy there by meeting the criteria for an emergency use authorization through this study over 100,000 Americans have already enrolled to receive this treatment and it is proven to reduce mortality by 35% Sent it's a tremendous number.

1 (4m 35s):
So Trump saying that this plasma transfer could reduce mortality by 35% which sounds significant and huge of true. Is it true mayor? It's a bit of a misleading statistic. What they're talking about here is a change in the relative risk. Basically, they're looking at a study and the study wasn't actually all that robust either. It was comparing patients who receive plasma within three days of being diagnosed to patients who Received it after those three days. Basically the main variable was when they received it and this is different from a standard clinical trial because one it wasn't completely randomized. This is a retrospective study and to they weren't comparing it to a placebo. They were just comparing two different groups that received the same treatment at different times.

1 (5m 19s):
So that's not as robust. And the main finding was that it did reduce the fatality rate, but only by about 3% Hmm. So it was a little irresponsible to use that 35 number. Yeah. Talk to a doctor about that and he was very Chagrin about that statement saying that both the president and Stephen Han should have known better or at least have issued a correction to clarify what they're specifically talking about when they invoke that statistic have the president or the commissioner of the FDA. Steven Han said anything to clarify that statement since Sunday. The president hasn't he's been pretty busy with the convention. But Steven Han took to Twitter on Monday night and issued a note saying that the criticism was and and that he should have been more careful about delineating the difference between relative risk and absolute risk.

1 (6m 9s):
What could have led the FDA commissioner Stephen Han to over promise or make a statement that was inaccurate could've been pressure from the president. Well, he's made it pretty clear that he's tying the prospect of a vaccine and of treatment for covid-19 to his electoral prospects. He has hinted and alleged without evidence that the FDA has been stalling progress. On treatments and vaccines for covid-19 to try to hurt him electoral a so this is something he clearly sees us something that's going to help him get votes in November. And of course this was what on the eve of the RNC, right the Republican National Convention is this week and certainly he wants to have something to brag about during a pandemic where 170,000 Americans have died.

1 (6m 53s):
How about our national? Dr. Anthony falchi? How does he feel about it? Well, he was very conspicuously absent from the White House Press Conference on Sunday and And there are some reports that came out I think in the New York Times that showed that he was actually pretty hesitant about this emergency use authorization saying that they try to actually put a stop to it because they said the evidence wasn't robust enough to justify it. Hmm when people hear that the fda's okaying this plasma treatment and the president sort of talking it up in a nationally broadcast press conference are people going to be flocking to it and and how will that change its?

1 (7m 32s):
Efficacy, it's used its popularity. That's a great question. And yeah, some doctors and researchers are definitely concerned that one of the side effects of this emergency. Use authorization is that it will actually make Research into using homeless and plasma harder the gold standard for clinical trials is something called a randomized controlled trial where you basically have a group of people and you randomly split them into two groups one group gets a placebo in one group gets the actual treatment, but now that this has been approved as a treatment if you're really sick with the virus is why would you take the risk of actually getting a placebo when you could get the actual treatment and so it might be harder for Physicians and for researchers to actually recruit more patients into clinical trials, which would actually provide more robust evidence of whether or not this is an effective treatment.

1 (8m 17s):
So we're kind of darned if we do and darned if we don't well it means that when you are doing something like this, you have to make really careful consideration of the risks and benefits that you know, this is something that could impair research but if the benefit is that good then maybe it's worthwhile but a People say right now that the benefits have not been demonstrated at the scale necessary to justify this and that's really the source of the controversy with this announcement. Well, in the meantime, what does this mean for treating covid are there other issues of plasma that people need to be nervous about well plasma is something that is harvested from other people. So the main limiting factor and how much plasma there is is how many people are willing to donate it, you know during that press conference Steven Han implored Americans to you've recovered from covid-19.

1 (9m 3s):
Please donate it could save a life and mr. President. The other thing is that this is a transfusion. This is a transfusion of a blood product and there are risks involved in that. There are some inflammatory problems. There can be some pretty severe lung issues that can arise from this as well and some allergies that can lead to anaphylactic shock. So the risk of doing this is not zero, there are some balancing issues that you have to do. You have to make a cost-benefit analysis of whether or not it's worthwhile to get this treatment. How does it compare to the other two? Means we have thus far. It turns out we don't really have a lot of good treatments. There were some that were proposed earlier. You may recall hydroxychloroquine the anti-malaria drug. I think we talk to you about it.

1 (9m 44s):
That's right. This is also received an emergency use authorization back in March, but the FDA revoked it back in June when they realize that there really wasn't much of a benefit and there was more harm than good. There is a drug called REM does severe this is an antiviral drug that has shown some degree of Effectiveness, but that's still undergoing testing. It is being used as a treatment as well in some cases. And then there's another drug called dexamethasone. This is an anti-inflammatory drug. It's a corticosteroid and it actually kind of tamps down on the immune system. So it's only used in really severe cases of this infection where the immune system starts to overreact and cause collateral damage. These are different treatments that are used in different cases. Like you kind of have to make a judgment call here.

1 (10m 25s):
And I think doctors really want to have more options to deal with more patience. I mean, there's a lot of different circumstances in which one drug or one treatment might be viable where another one - Might not be so it helps to have more tools on the table to help solve this problem. Okay, but still not a vaccine not some Panacea. That's right. This is not the Blockbuster drug that's going to get people out of the hospital within a day. And this is not something that's going to prevent you from getting sick and let you get back to work right away either. So it's a baby step and you know, sometimes scientists are still questioning whether the evidence is there for this but you know, it's better than nothing. Okay. Why don't we take a little break here and then we'll talk about what might actually A get us back to work after the break.

1 (11m 7s):
What do you say sounds good? Okay. This episode is brought to you by a vast a global leader in cybersecurity committed to making your life online a lot. Safer. Avast is trusted by more than 435 million users to keep their data safe and their devices protected from nasty malware and other viruses Avast has a whole Suite of tools to keep your identity protected and your online actions hidden from prying eyes no matter what part of your Digital Life you want to protect Avast has you covered a great place to get started is with a vast. Medium security its warts all online threats including ransomware virus has and spoofed websites built to steal your information or check out a vast secure line VPN, which encrypts your internet connection no matter what Wi-Fi network you're on if you use a lot of public networks that coffee shops or airports where your data is, especially vulnerable.

1 (12m 1s):
This is the tool for you. Avast also has services like a vast cleanup premium, which helps get rid of your cyber junk to make your computer as Snappy as it was when you first bought it. They offer a ton of other products to help solve every online security problem. You could imagine don't worry about viruses phishing attacks ransomware hacking attempts and cyber crime again a vast products are there to protect you learn more about Avast privacy security and performance products at a vast.com. The federal government has blocked access to abortion for people with low incomes for over 40 years through the Hyde Amendment a ban on abortion coverage that hurts people enrolled in Medicaid and other insurance programs enough is enough Joe Biden pledge to an ACLU volunteer that he'd end the Hyde Amendment and if elected we need him to follow through on that pledge the polls show Biden ahead of trump with almost a 20-point lead with women the message on reproductive freedom.

1 (13m 1s):
Is clear and Joe Biden has an opportunity to lead by removing bands on coverage in his first budget and refusing to sign bills with hide restrictions. The time to end hide is now paid for by American civil liberties Union Inc rights for all dot-org. I do mayor. Let's get some updates on how we might eventually get out of this situation. We're in right now. How many vaccines are currently being bandied about? There are more than 200 vaccine candidates from different research groups all over the world 200.

1 (13m 40s):
Yeah. That's that's reassuring. Yeah, and I think there's kind of throwing everything at the wall and seeing what sticks and this is definitely a full court press against this disease. It kind of shows how important it is and how serious it is. That so many people around the world are devoting the resources to it. Cool. Which one should we talk about? Like how many of these 200 are worth taking seriously? Well, we can look at some of the ones that are a little bit further ahead. Okay, the ones that are moving into human trials, you know, I think that's also another unprecedented thing worth noting that this was a disease that we only discovered a few months ago. And now we're already testing vaccines against it in humans. This is an unprecedented pace of technological development what we're talking about here with these vaccines are more conventional clinical trials and even that is remarkable because again clinical trials typically take a long time to run and so one of the ways they sped up clinical trials for vaccines is that they started doing some overlapping of the first and second phase of the trial basically where you're looking for the safety and efficacy the earlier stages and so right now we have about 26 vaccine candidates that are in human testing and there are six that are in Phase 3 clinical trials.

1 (14m 46s):
This is the Final Phase before regulatory approval and this is where you have to test the vaccine. in tens of thousands of people Where are those six vaccines currently being manufactured? Well, there are a couple research groups here in the United States. There's one in the United Kingdom. That's pretty far ahead. This is the University of Oxford Group that is developing a vaccine with AstraZeneca. And there are a few in China as well that are entering phase 3 trials and what do we know about them? Well right now with phase 3 not all that much based on their Phase 1 and Phase 2 Data they show that these vaccines were safe that they didn't cause a huge amount of advertising.

1 (15m 28s):
Reactions or cause any severe complications and in the patient's they tested and they saw an immune response that basically patients who were tested generated antibodies. Now, they have to test it in the real world and test it against the actual virus and that's going to be a little bit more complicated and because these trials are recruiting thousands of participants. It takes a long time just to fill out the roster the AstraZeneca vaccine and United Kingdom that's being done with Oxford University. I mean, they have a 10,000 person trial and the group that's this ahead right now moderna which started recruiting its volunteers earliest. I mean, they're still trying to fill up that roster and they don't expect to fill it out until September. So it takes a few weeks just from the beginning of a phase 3 trial before you even have all the patients that you would need and then you have to start dosing the patients with this vaccine and many of these vaccines are two dose vaccines.

1 (16m 18s):
That means that you have to give one shot to the patient wait a couple weeks up to four weeks and then give them the second shot and then you have to wait and Watch What Happens? What about that Russian vaccine? I notice you didn't mention that in the list of some of these vaccines that are further along was their vaccine. No bueno. Well, this is the Sputnik five vaccine that the Russian government has been talking about. Is that what they called it? Yeah cute. It's clear Phase 1 and Phase 2, but they didn't really put it at through phase 3 trials. This was only tested in about 76 people. The Russian government says that that's enough to justify manufacturing and distributing this but a lot of other researchers are saying that you know, you need a lot more testing to do.

1 (16m 58s):
That and you certainly can't import it to the United States because the FDA requires that you tested and you know tens of thousands of people before it's approved for widespread use. Hmm But we were just talking about how the FDA sort of being pressured to move things along by the Trump Administration is it not being pressured that Hardware they accept some under tested Russian vaccine. They will likely not accept anything from Rush, especially with that weak data, but there are concerns that the FDA. Do an emergency use authorization for a vaccine similar to what they did with plasma before the election. The concern is that they will use the very limited clinical trial data that has been learned so far and use that as a justification for manufacturing and distributing a vaccine or at least making the announcement so that you know President Trump can use that as a campaign issue that's problematic for a number of reasons, but the big one is that right now in the u.s.

1 (17m 56s):
We have arrived. Rising vaccine hesitancy movement not just denial but there are a lot of people that are kind of hesitant about how quickly everything is going and they're concerned that a vaccine especially one being tested so quickly may not have been put through all the paces and now that there's concerned that there's political pressure to rush a vaccine out that could make people even more reluctant to take a vaccine and getting lots of people vaccinated is critical toward ending this pandemic so that hesitancy that trepidation about getting this vaccine could Only undermine the fight against this disease and based on how this thing's gone. So far. You couldn't really blame Americans for being skeptical that everything will go right.

1 (18m 39s):
Once we have a vaccine right? The important thing to remember is that a vaccine is pretty important and almost necessary to end the pandemic as we know it, but it's not enough on its own. There's not likely to be a one-size-fits-all solution to this pandemic will likely be different vaccines for different people some for older people who may have weakened immune systems some for very young people some for who are immunocompromised or have other kinds of pre-existing conditions. Those people might need to wait longer for a vaccine even after one is approved for widespread youth. Then you kind of have to manufacture and distribute this vaccine. This is something that has never been done on this scale. We're talking about vaccinating almost everybody in this country hundreds of Millions.

1 (19m 21s):
People and that's something just that would take time. I mean just think about how difficult it is to do the census just finding out how many people we have in this country. It's not going very well. Apparently something like four out of every ten houses haven't completed the senses yet. Right and that's just checking boxes. Now, imagine going door-to-door and convincing people to get a shot of this brand new substance that supposedly can protect them. But some people might be more hesitant to take so now imagine how long it would take just to vaccinate people to convince them to have all the resources to deploy this like, I mean people are already anticipating shortages of the vials used to store at the back seat, and the syringe is needed to administer it.

1 (20m 2s):
That in itself has on is a big logistical challenge. There is no guarantee that the United States will be the first country to develop a vaccine another country might beat us to it. What that means is that if we want to use that vaccine we have to come up with an agreement where we would help them. In fact right help and recover some of the costs and conversely if the u.s. Is first there is going to be an expectation that the US will help other countries as well fight their own pandemics. And so there's a lot of different moving Parts here. And obviously the vaccine is certainly a big part of it, but it's not the only part and Are likely to have to do all this social distancing and some of the Mask wearing? Well after a vaccine is available. That's going to have to continue for a pretty long time after that.

1 (20m 43s):
I think vaccinations have become a part of everyday conversation in this country who may or may be, you know everywhere in the world. But you pay attention to the vaccine. Beat in a way that most of us don't what do you think the likelihood is here that it's coming soon and that, you know, especially in this country will be executed. Well when it arrives personally, I do think we are going to set a record here with how fast a coronavirus vaccine has developed. The fastest vaccine has ever been developed before in history was the mumps vaccine and that took four years. And I think we're definitely going to beat that record here given the amount of effort and the pace of progress so far, but I wouldn't commit to anything with in 2020. I think we're likely to be looking at 2021 for when a vaccine becomes approved.

1 (21m 27s):
And of course what matters for you and I is when we can actually get the vaccine. When do we get that shot? And that can be much longer after that and we're laying the groundwork for that right now. The Department of Health and Human Services for instance is funding the manufacturer of different vaccine. Candidates right now building factories and helping build the assembly lines for them knowing full. Well that many of those candidates won't pan out or won't get approval and similarly what we're doing in terms of controlling the spread of the pandemic right now makes a difference because if we have fewer cases when the vaccine is available, that means that we had much fewer vaccinations to contain the disease if the disease is very rampant if covid-19 is spreading like wildfire then you need many more vaccinations before you start seeing a decline.

1 (22m 13s):
Fine in the numbers and a Slowdown in the spread. I guess that just means I won't hang out with you for a long time are well, maybe we can do a socially distant game of tennis sometime. There you go. That's what I like to hear. There's still things we can do. That's right. game on the mirror van writes about science for Vox you can find his plasma and vaccine reporting at vox.com.

1 (22m 56s):
I'm Sean Rama's Forum today. Explain. Check out Quimby's daily news coverage on the app today with Partners like Vox CBS News, the BBC and VC and Telemundo, you'll get new content and fresh perspectives everyday. Kwibi news shows fast facts fresh perspectives every day. That's Hugh you IBI download the quippy up now and get a two week free trial.

1 (23m 37s):
Hi, my name is Martha. I'm a producer inbox and I recently got my first ever pair of all Burns their treat Asher's the world's first performance running shoe made from premium natural materials. I don't know about y'all but going for runs and walks. It's been the key to keeping myself afloat these days. So I was really excited when I took my all birds out for a spin and they felt great on my feet and kept me cool on a run here in Houston, Texas, which is nothing short of amazing. But the best part about my new all birds. Is that there? Comfortable and carbon neutral thanks to sustainable practices like offset in carbon emissions and I know that because all birds measures the carbon footprint of all of its products and listed on every pair of shoes socks and undies that tells you things like the energy consumption of assembly factories and the amount of energy it takes to run your shoes through the wash because yes, they are machine washable.

1 (24m 28s):
Amazing. All birds knows that you can't reduce your footprint until you know, what it is. That's why they committed to lowering their impact over time. So they can leave a better kind of footprint with all birds feel confident knowing you're wearing a product that's doing right by your feet and the planet learn more about their sustainable practices and find your pair at all birds.com.