1 (1s):
People are leaving the Catholic Church. Its very old. Traditions clash with modern life. It's been plagued by abuse scandals, its most accessible. Emissary of the past decade was the hot priest from Fleabag. I

2 (13s):
Love you. It'll pass

1 (17s):
To address this problem. Its second most accessible emissary. Cool Pope, Pope Francis called a month long summit in Rome to talk about how the church moves forward. Modernizes, even the Catholic church has held these meetings or synods before. But this year, for the first time ever, it wasn't just Catholic clergy voting. There were laypeople or in laypeople terms, regular people. They discussed big things. Can priests get married? Can women be priests? Where does the church stand on L-G-B-T-Q people, the post senate lowdown, Coming up. On today explained.

0 (60s):
I'm Lyn Hill And this week on the Weeds, a growing piece of the care crisis.

4 (1m 5s):
It used to be that there could be seven people to take care of each person. and that number is going down and down and down. So, that has impacts for the people who need care and has impacts for the people who are giving that care too.

0 (1m 16s):
Millions of Americans are caretaking for children and aging loved ones at the same time. Why it's difficult to bridge multiple care gaps and the policies that could fix it. Listen and subscribe.

Vulture in New York Magazine (1m 33s):
Returning this November in Los, Angeles. Vulture. Festival is a pop culture spectacle where Vulture, the website, not the bird, comes to life right before your eyes. This year, we're celebrating even more of the art that unites us, comedy, reality, tv, film, music, and more. Join us for intimate panels, performances, and conversations with iconic stars like Weird Al Henry Winkler, Meg Stalter, Casey Wilson, Sharon Stone, Adam Pey, Billy Porter, Matt Rogers, and many more to be announced. It's all happening the weekend of November 11th and 12th and we can't wait to see you there. For tickets, lineup, announcements and more, visit Vulture Festival dot com.

6 (2m 22s):
ExOne s

2 (2m 25s):
You're

6 (2m 26s):
Listening to today explained,

0 (2m 41s):
Josh,

1 (2m 41s):
Go ahead, gimme your full name and tell me what you do.

7 (2m 44s):
I'm Joshua Mcoe. I'm the news editor for The National. Catholic Reporter. I was previously our Vatican correspondent for eight years, and I'm here in Rome covering The Pope Francis' Center of Bishops.

1 (3m 1s):
The Senate of Bishops is a big summit. There were around 450 delegates, all convened by The Pope, with the express purpose of answering some questions about what the Catholic Church should be and what the Catholic Church should do.

7 (3m 16s):
Some of these issues have included women's inclusion in church ministry, or in the possibility of even being ordained as deacons or priests, as well as better inclusion of L-G-B-T-Q Catholics who have felt left out or marginalized by the church. We've been be able to interview people in the room in the hall. We've heard about the discussions about how they're a little different than how these summits, which are formerly known as a senate of bishops, have been held in the past instead of stadium style seating where The Pope kind of sits at the front and everyone is in a stadium listening to him or the cardinal speaking at the moment, they've held the meeting at round tables. So each of the 450 members have been at round tables of 12 or 13 persons.

7 (3m 57s):
The focus has been on small group discussions on kind of listening to one another and having a more open and dialogical tone. So what we've heard from members is it's quite different than previous sentences where everyone kind of just talked and spoke and you'd hear eight or nine minute speeches from Cardinals this time around. They're giving faith, sharing, moving testimonies from laypeople and some of the people in the room about 80 participants of the full voting members are laypersons non bishops, priests, religious Catholic sisters, and young people. I think the youngest delegate in the room was 19 years old, a college student from Wyoming who at the end of the event a couple days ago asked The Pope to sign his permission slip for being away from college for so long.

7 (4m 45s):
For the first time in the center of bishops, especially for there were 54 women who are appointed as full voting members of the Synod at an equal level with the bishops and priests in the room, given full membership, given the ability to vote on the final document.

8 (5m 2s):
This is the way it should be really, and it should have have happened long time ago. I was, I was at the Synod in 98 and I remember talking about women and in a way it's sort of, well, I should say sad almost, because you know what I said almost 30 years ago still is a message to the church. So, so now I think that we are becoming normal as a human institution.

1 (5m 35s):
Let me start with something really basic. What is a synod?

7 (5m 39s):
So the A Synod is an institution created in 1965 after the end of the second Vatican council, which was this enormous meeting that kind of set the tone for reform in the Catholic church in the 1960s.

9 (5m 54s):
The historic ecumenical council Vatican two comes to a close amid colorful pop and pageantry considered one of the most important councils in Catholic church history. Vatican two saw 2,400 bishops and other PTs revised many aspects of church activity. It was

7 (6m 10s):
The first, and the idea was at out of this enormous meeting, which set reforms such as no longer having the celebration of the mass only in Latin, but also in languages across the world. The idea was the bishops at that council, that event in the sixties, wanted to keep this method of dialogue open. So they created this new institution called the Synod, which is essentially is an assembly of bishops in Rome. That would happen from time to time as The Pope decided to call an assembly. What, what Pope Francis has called now was a synod basically on the institution itself and how to make it more open. The word centered itself is a Greek word that means journeying together.

7 (6m 51s):
So how to create a church where everyone feels they're journeying together and talking about issues, even big issues that maybe have felt off the table for a long time.

1 (7m 0s):
Okay. So there was a lot on the table here and over the past month you've been talking to people who participated. What stood out to them? What moments did they tell you about that were important to them?

7 (7m 12s):
I think the most moving thing that occurred this month might have been something outside the Synod, and that was a Catholic sister from the us Her name is Sister Janine Graham, who has been for five decades, a minister to L-G-B-T-Q Catholics in the US had a meeting with Pope Francis. She met with Pope Francis for about 50 minutes with her group New Ways Ministry.

10 (7m 36s):
Well, we met in a parlor and there were chairs arranged in a kind of a circle. But then I pulled my chair closer to his because I didn't like that arrange arrangement. I mean, it was a fine arrangement, but not close enough. And then we just began to chat.

7 (7m 58s):
And what's quite extraordinary about this is that under previous papacy, under John Paul II and Benik the 16th, sister Gram was really threatened. She was asked to stop her work, was told that she could no longer minister with L-G-B-T-Q Catholics. And there was really a sense of that's it no more. And now Pope Francis invited Sister Janine and her staff members to come to Rome.

10 (8m 24s):
I think it's God's working in the church and in the world that God is saying we, we need to get back to the spirit of Vatican two. And for too long we have been having that fortress mentality of going backward, but I think Pope Francis is trying to get us to move forward, to look, to open our eyes and look to the, to the future and and, and to the changes in the world.

7 (8m 53s):
The sense of joy and, and, and, and just in credibility at this encounter was really moving. And obviously for this, she's 80 something years old. Hmm. She's coming toward the end of her life and this was a really important moment for her to have this moment of reconciliation and of recognition even by The Pope.

10 (9m 13s):
Before we left Pope Francis gave us some gifts, a beautiful set of rosaries. I got a beautiful medallion with the blessed mother and and the infant. Right. It's just lovely. So I got teased by some of my coworkers because you know, I said I'm getting old so I don't like to get things. I'm giving things away. I don't want people to have to do a lot of work after I'm gone. So they said, who are you gonna give these to? I said, no one, these are for me. They're gonna get buried with me.

1 (9m 54s):
Okay. So among the big issues were two that a lot of people were very curious about, would the church change its position on L-G-B-T-Q people and could women someday become priests? So start there. Did anyone tell you anything about the discussion around the ordination of women?

7 (10m 12s):
Yeah, so we spoke to many of the members who took part in the event. For example, we spoke to an Australian bishop named Shane McKinley, who was on the final document drafting committee for the event. He said openly that the discussion had happened. The

12 (10m 26s):
Question of the ordination of women is clearly something that needs to be addressed universally. And if it were to be that the, that the outcome was for ordination to the the to be open to women, I'd certainly welcome that.

1 (10m 41s):
Okay, interesting. And we're also talking about the Catholic church's position on L-G-B-T-Q people and whether it will change. What does that mean? What is the church's current position on L-G-B-T-Q people?

7 (10m 54s):
So the issue at play is more about inclusion and welcoming of L-G-B-T-Q persons, the Catholic churches. Clear teaching is that all persons L-G-B-T-Q persons, all persons have human dignity, deserve respect, and deserve to be treated with respect. The major issue at the moment is that church teaching is clear that although gay persons deserve respect, church teaching does not allow for gay relationships or gay sexual intimacy. So the question commonly at play at the moment in the Catholic Church is whether the church could bless same-sex couples. Obviously the Catholic Church's teaching remains that marriage is a sacrament between a man and a woman.

7 (11m 35s):
But there are bishops even I think some cardinals envisioning a scenario where the church could say there is still something to be that can be said that is wholly or good about two same-sex individuals who have cared for one another and have had a long-term and stable relationship.

1 (11m 55s):
Was there any tension at this summit? I mean, you have people who are sort of on the fringes, and I don't mean that as a pejorative, but people who are sort of on the edges of the traditional Catholic church and then you have some very traditional Catholic church leaders. Was there any tension as people gave testimony?

7 (12m 11s):
I think what we were hearing from the Senate was that one of the most tense discussions in the room was about the better inclusion of L-G-B-T-Q Catholics in the church. My colleague Christopher White reported I think last week during the Synod about some of those tensions. He was able to learn of an instance where a bishop was so frustrated with the discussions that he actually left the room. It wasn't clear for how long that bishop left, but obviously that's a big moment. There was at least a second instance of that happening. It wasn't clear to us on what issue that other bishop left the room. But certainly when you have cases where there are bishops in a senate of bishops with The Pope present, leading the discussion, deciding to leave the room, that indicates there's a bit of heated discussion or debate going on.

1 (13m 0s):
The syn is now over. What is the result here? What is the news coming out of this summit?

7 (13m 7s):
Yeah, so on Saturday October 28th, the Synod released a final document that was voted on by the members. It's about a 41 page text. It's pretty dense, a little theological, but there are 81 proposals from the Synod for both The Pope for the wider church, and then for consideration as they prepare for a next assembly in in October, 2024. What we identified immediately was that, first of all, there was no mention of L-G-B-T-Q or gay Catholics. Hmm. Just a mention of issues of sexuality that the church needed to look at. And although there was a substantial discussion about women's leadership in the church, including language about how the church has wounded women by sexist or chauvinist mentalities, it basically punted on the question of whether women could be ordained as deacons.

7 (14m 1s):
It asked that two earlier papal commissions appointed by Pope Francis that those reports from those commissions be made public. They're still kind of behind closed doors that those reports be made public before the next synod so that the next Synod could better evaluate and make better decisions. So at the end of the day, some of the hot button issues or the issues that most concerned a lot of us Catholics were postponed or not even mentioned.

1 (14m 28s):
That sounds like it must have been very disappointing for some of the people who showed up there, some of the people that you spoke to. What was the response when this document came out?

7 (14m 37s):
I think disappointment is a fair word right now. I think a lot of people are waiting to see kind of what happens in the next 11 months between this Senate assembly and the one next October. We've had some interviews in recent days, including with a Jesuit priest from Africa named AEO Robor, who previously was the top Jesuit official in Africa, in Madagascar. And he said to us on the Vatican briefing that he's reassured by the fact that nothing is off the table.

13 (15m 7s):
I think the important thing to keep in mind, and this is very important certainly for me, is that we are not talking about a definitive text. We are talking about basically an attempt to invite further conversation. And therefore, even now, because this document is not a final document, it saves by that that no issue is finalized or closed.

1 (15m 39s):
And so is that it. We just wait until the next synod next year.

7 (15m 43s):
It's a bit unclear what happens in these 11 months between the two synods. We had an interview earlier today actually with two cardinals, Chicago's Cardinal Blaze Sopi, and San Diego's Cardinal Robert McElroy. Something they said clearly to us as a, as a, as a clear point of agreement was that now that lay people have been appointed as members of the Senator of Bishops, there is no going back. Cardinal McElroy said he thinks it is impossible to go back. That's a interesting point now that these senators of bishops in Rome might never again be only bishops, but also include basically all the voices of the Catholic Church.

1 (16m 34s):
Coming up On today explained the legacy of Jorge Mario Blio, the People's Pope, Papa Poncho, Lolo, Kiko, Mona Lisa The, Pope of the poor Francis man of many names, and even more nicknames. Stay tuned.

Deleteme (16m 55s):
Support for today's show comes from Delete Me. Your personal data is supposed to be personal. If you've ever been the victim of a data breach or a phishing scam, you know that that information is out there and in the wrong hands, obviously identity theft, harassment, et cetera. Deleteme offers a way to keep your personal information personal according to the company. They can identify which data brokers sell your data online and they can remove it on your behalf. Sarah Frank, who's one of my colleagues who works on the business side of things here at Vox, tried out Deleteme. I recently had the opportunity to test out Deleteme and I was really flabbergasted. They gave me a report of more than 50 companies with my data. It was pretty shocking, but Deleteme made it super easy for me to remove my data from these sites. Right now, you can get 20% off your Deleteme plan when you go to join Deleteme dot com slash today and use promo code today. The way to get 20% off is to go to join Deleteme dot com slash today and enter promo code today at checkout. Join Deleteme dot com slash today, promo code today.

15 (18m 6s):
Hi, I'm Abhai Artsy and I'm one of the people whose names you hear in the credits of today. Explained. I helped produce our recent series, Blame Capitalism. We got into how companies became solely focused on profit, how the bank bailout launched populist movements on the left and the right and how amidst the climate crisis and growing in equality. Many of us lost faith in capitalism's ability to meet our basic needs. If you appreciate these kinds of deeply nerdy, thoroughly researched and rigorously fact-checked conversations, then please support our work at Vox dot com slash give. And thank you

1 (18m 53s):
Joshua McElwee, news editor for The National Catholic Reporter Pope Francis has been Pope for 10 years. He is 86 years old. He struggled with some health problems throughout the years.

17 (19m 7s):
Pope Francis today showing the world his health is improving. Almost two months after he was hospitalized for bronchitis, the 86 year old ponta, thankful the doctors caught the infection in the nick of time saying, had they waited even a few more hours, it would've been more serious.

1 (19m 25s):
And I wonder whether he's using this synod, this summit to kind of lay the groundwork of a legacy that he hopes to leave behind. What do you think?

7 (19m 35s):
I think it's quite fair to frame this syn of bishops as a legacy moment for Pope Francis Pope. Francis has tried to create a church that is more dialogical, more based on encounter and more concerned with the modern needs of the world. And as part of this effort, he has hosted now five sentences of bishops in Rome to discuss major issues in this synod. The Pope has done more. He's put almost every issue you can imagine on the table. Hmm. And so now probably towards the end of his papacy, envisioning that he's 86 years old, turning 87 in December, he's made this major moment to discuss these issues, to raise them forward and to see kind of what the church can do.

7 (20m 23s):
And I think a lot of Catholics now will be wondering, at toward the end of this papacy, will something concrete happen?

1 (20m 33s):
Has anything concrete happened? Has, has he changed anything in his time as Pope? And I understand it's the Catholic church, it's a hard thing to change, but has anything actually changed during his tenure?

7 (20m 44s):
That's a hard question to answer because it's 10 years and there's a lot. I think some of the major changes you'll see are on social issues. For example, in 2015, Pope Francis clearly embracing the scientific consensus on climate change.

18 (20m 59s):
Pope Francis has a message for the world, a call to action to reverse climate change. And while some are welcoming the Pope's opinion, certain skeptics are wishing he would just stay out of a highly controversial issue. NBC

7 (21m 11s):
Pope Francis also did raise up the possibility on a case by case basis that divorced and remarried Catholics could take communion in consultation with their pastor

19 (21m 22s):
On divorce. He says it's an evil that's increasing and troubling, but he says the divorced are not excommunicated.

20 (21m 29s):
It can no longer simply be said according to Pope Francis, that all those in a quote unquote irregular situation are living in a state of mortal sin.

7 (21m 39s):
He's done a host of actions, especially on clergy sexual abuse. Appointing the first commission of its kind to advise The Pope on how the church should handle the issue

21 (21m 49s):
For the first time. Pope Francis is publicly addressing the biggest scandal facing the Catholic church clergy sex abuse. The Pope said, quote, I wish to express my compassion to ensure my closeness and prayer to every victim of sexual abuse and to their families. I ask you to continue to support them along the painful path of healing that they have undertaken with courage.

7 (22m 10s):
So I think a lot of what we have seen, although it doesn't get as much interest perhaps, is a Pope who has made significant changes. And there's a lot more, obviously he's considering, but there's still a lot that he has done in 10 years. Does

1 (22m 25s):
What's happening here with the Catholic Church in Rome, does that affect the rest of the world or does it just affect Catholics?

7 (22m 34s):
Well, the Catholic Church is an enormous global institution. There are 1.3 billion members.

1 (22m 41s):
There's no just about it.

7 (22m 44s):
It's an enormous institution. You think of, you know, all of those members, how many parishes, how many churches, how many schools, how many hospital institutions. It's, it's a, it's a huge global entity with huge global reach. The Catholic Church also maintains diplomatic relations as a sovereign entity, as a state with nations around the world where they in, where they exert influence. They have representatives at the UN in New York and Geneva and in other places on different international levels. What the Catholic Church says has always mattered. I think what we've seen from Pope Francis is a, a desire to make the Catholic Church more relevant to global discussions.

7 (23m 26s):
I think that's what we've seen in his effort to push church leaders on the issues of climate change. To talk about the different conflicts around the world. Pope Francis' frequent refrain is to talk about a, a third world ward fought in pieces with all the different conflicts around the world, and also to influence current events in Israel Palestine and in the Ukraine Russia war.

1 (24m 3s):
You know, it does seem like a more relevant church. And I say that as a non-Catholic, particularly the statements about climate change and about inclusion broadly. Do those reforms that we talked about, women clergy inclusion of L-G-B-T-Q people, do those things actually have to happen in Francis' lifetime for them to be part of his legacy as Pope?

7 (24m 25s):
I think maybe not in that. Francis has invited discussions that for many Catholics felt closed for maybe 50 or 60 years. I think largely after the second Vatican Council, this large reform meeting in the 1960s, there was a sense that the church had really closed down Pope. Paul II declared that Catholics could not use birth control. Pope. John Paul II declared that there was no scenario in which the church could ordain women. And Pope Bennett, I 16th, was largely seen as kind of a conservative or retrenchment figure. With Pope Francis, what we've seen is someone who likes to get in the midst of it.

7 (25m 9s):
Hmm. Early in his papacy, he said he wanted a church that was bruised and in the streets, and he preferred that over a church that was locked up in its cathedrals. And so I think what we've seen from Francis is a church that is active, is relevant, is interesting, can create headlines and things can happen that are surprising. And I think largely that was kind of lost, especially over the past 20 or 30 years or so.

1 (25m 49s):
Joshua McElwee of The National Catholic Reporter. Today's episode was produced by Isabelle And. here I am not kidding, Angell. It was edited by Matthew Collette. Laura Bullard is our fact checker. St. Patrick of Boyd is our engineer. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.

22 (26m 29s):
See you Sunday. I'm joking. You're never ever allowed in my church again.