0 (1s):
Hello, Vox listeners. My name is Erin Lamor and I'm one of the hosts of the long-form podcast, the newest edition Devoxx and the Vox media podcast network. We've been doing the show for over nine years. We've gotten to talk to people like George Saunders, Terry Gross, Tallahassee coats, and really tried to explore what it means to be a writer or a journalist today in 2021. We're also expanding to feature documentarians, podcasters, whoever we find interesting. So you can catch up on long-form now at vox.com/long form or in the podcast app of your choice.

1 (53s):
I explained I'm Sean rom is from the team and I are back from a little break. Some of us traveled places in the United States over our little break. We were not alone. Something like tens of millions of Americans traveled over the 4th of July holiday weekend setting all sorts of pandemic travel records. This past weekend, some British guy took it even further flying from New Mexico into space and back. People are moving up and moving on, but it's a strange phenomenon because for so many across the planet, the pandemic is still very much the reality today on the show, we're bringing you Postcards from pandemic purgatory.

1 (1m 35s):
Our first is from Tiffany Park's and American living and Rome who you've actually heard on the show before. So

2 (1m 42s):
The first time I was on this podcast was I believe in March of 2020, I think the street you need to stay in your homes and it's hard to feel like you don't have any freedom of movement. When Italy was really the first Western country to be severely hit by the pandemic, it felt like the whole world was looking at Italy to figure out how, you know, what they should do. You know, since that time, you know, we went through about two months of severe lockdown. It was a legally enforced lock-down and we could not leave like the 200 meter radius around our homes, which is basically you could go around the block,

3 (2m 31s):
The teenager soccer, one of the youngest players ever to play the European championship. He's going to school here to keep Englander life. <inaudible>

2 (2m 57s):
Life is probably as close to again. I always say, quote, unquote, normal, because who knows if it'll ever be back to normal, most of the country is and what they are calling white zone, which means there are hardly any restrictions at all. And the recently lifted the outdoor mask mandate, which I think is a big deal, especially because it's summer, it's extremely hot here and it is hard to be outside, especially if you're in a park, something like that. And to feel like you need to wear a mask since Italy has opened up a few times before, like last summer and a few other times, I feel that every single time Italians go straight back to the mentality they had before.

2 (3m 50s):
I think Italians particularly are so incredibly social and they love to be out. And they they're very convivial. They like to be at restaurants and be with their friends that everybody is out. Everybody is just acting like nothing had happened. And that was what I said to myself at the time. I said, it feels like none of it happened. And by me, Dean I'm from Manila, Philippines, I feel very, very far from the end of the pandemic. Those who are fully vaccinated as at two point 65%. And that's so low because our population is at 108 million with the current vaccination rate, we'll be able to achieve herd immunity by 2022.

2 (4m 38s):
So yeah, that's pretty far from today, specifically here in the Philippines, I feel like people have taken it seriously. Like unlike other countries, like for example, the U S we don't have anti maskers. When the government started at the us to wear masks, be wore masks, we follow a distractions. We didn't go out. So it's pretty annoying that restyle at this position right now, for me. Sure. Yeah. The best vaccine as the one made available to you.

2 (5m 20s):
Right? But you can't blame people if they don't have the same confidence and the Chinese vaccine as to be the other vaccines available in the market, especially when other countries are restricting or banning people inoculated by the Chinese vaccines. Recently, the precedent said something about the vaccine sled threat, then those who don't want to get the vaccine by the jail

4 (5m 48s):
Time. <inaudible> <inaudible> and <inaudible>.

2 (5m 56s):
But with that said, there are so many people who want things to get vaccinated. Even people who line up as early as 5:00 AM. I feel like the communication within the government here is so bad. Like last week they announced COVID tests aren't required for fully vaccinated folks. And I feel like that would be such a good policy to roll out, to drive more people, to get vaccinated, but just today they've taken back their announcement on it. So within the week, just when you think you'll have somewhat normalcy back in your life, the policy changes, and it's so frustrating how it's like we're going on and circle not forward.

2 (6m 38s):
And I'm really hopeful that we'll have a sense of normalcy back in our lives. Cause I miss pre pandemic Manila it's so, so much different. First of all, I miss seeing my friends. I haven't seen them for more than a year and haven't eaten out for more than a year. I think I'd want to, I think I'd want to go to the Japan again and also, and like wishfully hoping. Cause I booked, I booked this festival tickets to Spain. So hopefully it opens up for the Philippines and I'll go.

0 (7m 13s):
My name is Eugene Daniel. I am calling from Brooklyn and New York. My

5 (7m 20s):
Name is <inaudible> and I'm calling from Cordova in Nordic and you

0 (7m 25s):
Know what, Ken and I met and a chat room way back in 2006, a gay chatroom. I was about 14 years old pretending to be 18. And the story goes a long ways after that, but that was the original meeting place. And January of 2020, you know, we were going to eventually pursue a visa very much in the middle of a long distance relationship. Our engagement happened in 2021 kind of reached that point. But also I think that COVID in the pandemic did have a pretty drastic effect on the ways in which we're navigating.

0 (8m 6s):
Seeing each other, getting married was kind of like a sure shot way for us to be the United and one place. I was trying to convince Joaquin that it was going to be a huge deal and he did not believe me until a little bit later on.

5 (8m 24s):
And I really started getting worried when my friends started to get COVID and I got it even today next to my birthday. And I got real sad and scared. I had one friend that almost tied, we're almost we're at July and they haven't started getting vaccines from Pfizer and whether or not, or Johnson and Johnson,

0 (8m 49s):
We were too together. And January of 2021, when we were engaged, we had to go to like a third-party country is how I kind of conceptualize it. We were desperate to see each other. We had gone 11 months without seeing one another. So we met up in Mexico. That is when the vaccine rollout was really kind of taking

5 (9m 9s):
Off. Okay. And I got my, the vaccine and, and New York when I visited

0 (9m 15s):
Two blocks away from my apartment at a pharmacy, no line, no waiting, absurdly easy and such a kind of a stark contrast to how difficult it is to get. And other places like his own country, the

5 (9m 27s):
Us, a lot of people that haven't been as like, as lucky as we have that have not economical resources to meet up, that they are struggling, struggling to through PCRs and tests and vaccines and third-party countries. And I think we're paying a big price. The people that are separated, there are people with children. There are people married, the, the people that had babies and haven't been able to see them or meet them. And there's a lot of damage being done. Other couples breaking up a lot of dreams being burned down because of all this, I have to say that I have been very lucky to have my partner, my loved one, Eugene that kept me going through the darkest moments of my life.

5 (10m 22s):
There were literally days when I did not want to get out of bed because I wasn't even allowed to go to work. I was locked up for 45 days. And I think that he and my family and friends, that's the thing that kept me going. You can have a lot of money. You can have a lot of property. You can travel a lot, but if you have no one to share, it that's worth nothing. The thing I love and I miss the most about Eugene is sleeping with him, laying in bed, doing nothing. The best days we had in Mexico and in New York were days where it rained.

5 (11m 3s):
And we didn't do nothing else that lay in bed, watch movies and the ice cream and laugh. That's the most precious thing a person can have and slob. And those are, we're not having it easy. It is keeping up.

0 (11m 27s):
And I have tears, my eyes. He always makes me cry. And no, he does this. Like he's really poetic. I cry a lot too.

1 (12m 18s):
Support for the show. And he comes from <inaudible> and door dash wants to help with a problem. I don't particularly have right now, but maybe you do. And that problem is like, let's say you have a household with like three kids. And they all have wildly different tastes in food. Like growing up, my brother always wanted like spaghetti or lasagna, but I was like, yo hit me with that Currie. And my mom was like, you two are impossible. So like one of us would always have to kind of like sacrifice and eat the thing the other guy wanted, but it worked out. Cause I think I really liked spaghetti and lasagna. And my brother I think eventually came around to and Curry. So it's all good now. But anyway, door dash is like, maybe you just order all of the different foods you want. So, you know, you say like, listen, Tuesday is going to be spaghetti.

1 (12m 60s):
We'll order it. No hassle. Wednesday is going to be Curry. We'll order it. No hassle. And everyone goes home happy for a limited time, our listeners get 25% off and zero delivery fees on their first order of $15 more when you download the DoorDash app and, and with the code today, explain the whole thing today. Explain no comma though. That's 25% off, up to $10 value and zero delivery fees on your first order. When you download the DoorDash app in the app store and enter the code today, explained no comma, not on the weekends, maybe door dash on the weekends, our show Monday to Friday, that's the code today explained, enjoy goodbye. This is advertiser content from lending tree.

6 (13m 41s):
And when it comes to finding a mate, most of us will compare many possible matches before finding our person. And we invest our time. A survey found that millennials can spend around 90 minutes a day swiping on dating apps. We can't find ourselves in a relationship with someone else. If we don't know who we are, first that's professional matchmaker, Marshawn, Bobby of three days. There's no one size fits all for everybody. But shopping around is important. At first it can feel a little exhausting, but you got to go through it, right? Everyone does. In the end, the things you look for when comparing potential mates are unique to you.

6 (14m 23s):
So why not find a credit card or loan that fits you just as personally lending tree is a one-stop marketplace where you can easily compare loans, credit cards, insurance, and more so not only do you save money, you save time. And that means more time to spend with your special someone find lending tree on the app store, or go to lending tree.com to learn more terms and conditions apply in MLS. Number 1, 3, 6

7 (15m 2s):
<inaudible>. And I am in South Africa in Johannesburg, in the city, in the province of how den while we, as south Africans are in a lucky position, then some other people and some other countries in this continent, but also around the world in that we have the vaccine roll-outs, it's still slow and it's nowhere near enough. And we have a third wave going on right now. So we're probably looking at it going into next year. I hesitate to say just not to jinx it, but maybe the year after that and the one hand you want people to get the vaccine, you want things to work.

7 (15m 44s):
And it's great on the other. I think I speaking for myself of a bit of frustration. I don't know if hurt is the right word, but you watch the governments actively block or at least hinder vaccine distribution in terms of vaccine nationalism and watching people sort of go back to their lives. It is, it is quite a hurtful to know that you're know it. And yet no, my name is Arnaud Chank, and I'm currently in Vancouver, British Columbia when the pandemic hit and I started to work from home like everyone else.

7 (16m 25s):
But my thoughts also went to my family members in Hong Kong, especially my grandmother who's in her nineties. Things were going on in Hong Kong, especially with the pro-democracy demonstrators. And of course with the lockdown rules that came into play, it was also seen as an attempt to control the people which really caused a division in Hong Kong. When it came to COVID, even though people were worried, people were still suspicious in Hong Kong, the vaccine rollout, they had two choices in vaccines, and that was where the problem began because the two choices they had were Sinovac from China and by on tech, which we call the Pfizer vaccine in Canada, obviously, but over there, it's not made by Pfizer or anything to do with Pfizer.

7 (17m 19s):
It's actually made by Chinese factory because of the whole political situation between China and Hong Kong. There was a lot of distrust of anything coming from China and that included stuff like vaccines, stuff that you would put in your body. And as a result, a lot of misinformation came about. So for example, if a safety check came up with a defect in the vaccine, come from BioNTech, it doesn't matter if it wasn't Chinese invented, it was still considered the defect and something quote unquote, wrong. Every tiny little side effect or tiny little incident has been magnified.

7 (17m 60s):
It's very frustrating to be honest, most of my relatives have been very anti-vax as well. And then they were never like this. My brother, who is in China, he is acting like it's no big deal. And it really does concern the rest of us. And in terms of our relatives, nobody is vaccinated except for one aunt. And the reason why she is vaccinated is because she has this intense fear towards disease. That's literally the only reason. And that's so frustrating and looking from Canada because we're getting our cases under control really, really quickly, because we've been vaccinating, we're ready to reopen many things, but Hong Kong is kind of in this limbo.

7 (18m 48s):
I did make a bit of a promise that I somewhat regret. I ha I have a lot of people in my circle, or I had a lot of people in my circles here in Canada who were anti-vax and I cut many of them out of my life. And I finally put my foot down and said, I don't want to interact with anyone. Who's an anti-vaxxer. And this came before all this stuff in Hong Kong happened. And I am normally someone who makes good on those vows. And it's weird because if my relatives in Hong Kong are all anti-vax, then it doesn't seem to make a lot of moral sense for me to see them.

7 (19m 34s):
And quite frankly, I wouldn't, no, I would not feel safe around large gatherings in Hong Kong with many, many extended relatives. If none of them were vexed,

2 (19m 46s):
My name is Rania and I am calling from Texas, Austin, Texas. My parents are retired in Lebanon, Beirut. I have a sister in London and I have a sister in Canada in the U S there's this feeling that it's almost over, like people are celebrating. They went out for 4th of July, the, but at the same time, I see my family in Lebanon where it just feels it's never ending would these variants, right? So today it's Delta and then now it's the Delta plus. And tomorrow, I mean, there's all kinds of alphabets coming afterwards, right?

2 (20m 26s):
And in the richer countries where my sister's and, and I live, we have access to these medicines, but in other countries like Lebanon, it feels like it's, it's endless and people are on their own. So I don't know. It seems like it's going to be forever. My mom got the virus and this was at a time where the vaccine rollout was what's happening in LA in Lebanon, but it was very slow and you need it. It was kind of like a, you needed and what we call and Arabic wasta, or you needed like kind of a, you needed to know someone to get ahead and line.

2 (21m 11s):
Right? And my parents are 74 and 75. And you, they registered with the government and yet they weren't getting scheduled for it. And then my mom got sick and we're talking about lack of medicine as well in Lebanon. Like we were passing around among my, my friends from back home on what they could take. I have a list here. So for instance, it's like, make sure she takes zinc, vitamin C vitamin D gargle with Listerine. And then there was this drug as the throw, my sun, and then ever make teen. But I know for a fact, one of the drugs ever make teen, my husband, like he's into the stuff.

2 (21m 55s):
And he's like, don't let her take that. You know? And cause we, we give it to our dogs

8 (22m 4s):
And to Maidment and I love and Auckland New Zealand. My name is Jackson and I'm in Australia, Melbourne. I don't want to say that we haven't been affected by it. New Zealand obviously relies a lot on things like tourism and also education. But I mean, when I think about my personal life on a day-to-day basis, definitely I've been yeah, much less effective than my friends around the world. And we were in like a level four lockdown for like a hundred days, which is the only reason you leave your houses to get groceries. So it was, it was quite intense. So I think that's why when the small snap lockdowns are happening now, which is what they're calling them.

8 (22m 50s):
It's like three lockdowns here and there. I think that's why they can be so intense and triggering for everyone. Australia. Having an outbreak is definitely a concern for New Zealand. We currently have a travel bubble with them, which means that we can travel freely without having to quarantine when we returned to New Zealand. Yeah. It definitely makes it a bit of a worry for us. And when we finally got out of our lockdown, it was incredible because we returned to what we would consider normal so quickly. And it felt really rewarding because you knew you would put in the effort. We felt so lucky because this is when we were looking around the rest of the world and everyone's still deep in it.

8 (23m 31s):
And Australia and New Zealand with what we've been pretty similar along this whole thing, we were kind of like looked at in the world of how to handle it. And now we're being looked at and how to not handle it. There's just a huge disparity in vaccines. We D we didn't really, we can get any and, and however many we do have, and however many are on the order or whatever is being kept secret for national security. I sold, I sold at the New York times, ran a story about, and how Australia is the place to add and not model your vaccination run after. So we've gone from being put on a pedestal to, to falling pretty hard. It's and it's a difficult thing because to compare us to the United States, isn't quite fear.

8 (24m 13s):
You're a nation of 350 million people. We're a small nation of 5 million people down the bottom of the south Pacific. I, I understand that sort of internationally. We do get held up on a pedestal as that fear that I guess there's more to it than that. It's more sort of complicated than that life and Melbourne at the moment is, is good. It's good. But you just don't know if in two days from now you're gonna be in another lock-down and if we treat lockdowns, like the only solution, then obviously we're just going to be going back into them all the time. And that's just the unknowing. Like we don't know, there's no dates of when more coming and how quiet and quite plan has no has no like deadlines or anything, they call them Horizon's and obviously you can't reach out horizon.