1 (2s):
72 hours after someone shot up a power substation in Moore County, North Carolina. Late last year, the authorities said they were moving quickly, leaving zero stones unturned.

2 (12s):
Our tip line has been very, very active in the last 24 hours,

1 (17s):
But as active as that tip line has been more than two months later, authorities in North Carolina haven't made an arrest. And in fact, they're now trying to find out who's responsible for another attack on another substation, about an hour away from Moore County back in January, the number of attacks on the power grid in the US is rising. The FBI warns about white supremacists targeting it, but some of the attacks haven't had anything to do with extremism, their cases of vandalism or attempts to cause chaos in order to make it easier to rob stuff or just as often as in North Carolina. We don't know. Coming up on today, explained criminals collectively have figured out that the American power grid is the definition of an easy target.

1 (1m 6s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. Tell me your name and what you do.

3 (1m 10s):
My name is Catherine Morehouse and I'm a reporter at Politico, where I cover mostly the electric power grid and federal regulations and, and issues surrounding the power system.

1 (1m 21s):
Every few months it seems like we get a new story about someone who either attacks a power substation or plans to attack a power substation. What's happening?

3 (1m 31s):
I mean, first of all, it seems that way because we actually are seeing pretty significant uptick in these physical or cyber, in some cases, incidents against the grid. Last year, utilities actually reported 169 of these incidents in total, which is more than we've seen in the past decade. According to an analysis of DOE data, that 169 number is actually a 74% rise in incidents just over last year. And it has gotten bad enough that the FBI sent a memo to utilities detailing some recent incidents, including previously unreported attacks in California and Florida that unfortunately left some customers without

4 (2m 9s):
Power. Number of utility companies have reached out to federal authorities in recent days about recent or past instances of sabotage. And Michael all are being

3 (2m 18s):
Reviewed and there have been other really high profile incidents that also unfortunately have really impacted people.

5 (2m 25s):
Police say multiple power stations were shot up in an act of sabotage that knocked out power to thousands of homes in near freezing temperatures. The FBI is now involved

6 (2m 34s):
Four power substations in Washington state vandalized, including one found set of blaze overnight. Knocking out power on Christmas.

3 (2m 42s):
Power is very important to our daily lives. It's keeping the heat on, it's keeping the air conditioning on, so you can imagine on a really hot or really cold day, the grid is out. You know, in Texas we saw that even led to deaths in some instances in kind of the broader incidents. This this 169 number that I mentioned that could include a range of things. Copper theft is really common in other forms of vandalism or, or sabotage at these stations and not necessarily, you know, lead to the kind of power outages that we're seeing again in these more high profile instances. The latest attempts did involve a couple with ties to neo-Nazis, and it was thwarted by authorities before they had the chance to cause this major outage.

3 (3m 25s):
In Maryland,

7 (3m 26s):
The Justice Department has charged a Maryland woman and a neo-Nazi leader from Florida with allegedly plotting to attack Baltimore's power grid. According to a criminal complaint, Sarah Beth Clin Daniels spent months conspiring with Brandon Russell to shoot multiple power stations.

3 (3m 42s):
Russell was serving a five-year sentence for stockpiling explosives and was also known to the authorities for having founded that violent neo-Nazi group called the Adam Waffen.

8 (3m 52s):
According to the Southern Poverty Law Center, the Atom Waffen is a terroristic neo-Nazi organization with the main name of ushering in the collapse of civilization. So a white ethnostate or whites only utopia can be constructed in its wake.

3 (4m 6s):
And according to the criminal complaint that was filed, it charged a pair with conspiracy to destroy an energy facility in this pair actually met in in prison. And that complaint says that the pair believed that attacks on a handful of substations would basically lead to a cascading failure throughout the grid. And their goal was kind of to sow maximum chaos.

9 (4m 26s):
Russell provided instructions and location information he described attacking the power transformers as the greatest thing somebody can do.

7 (4m 36s):
The FBI said the suspects had racially unethically motivated extremist views and wanted to destroy the entire city.

3 (4m 43s):
So clin Daniel told an FBI confidential informant about plans to attack five substations.

9 (4m 50s):
In her own words, clin Daniel said she was determined to do this. She added it would lay this city to waste.

3 (4m 59s):
Ultimately that's how they were caught is through going through this informant. And there have been other instances as well where folks with neo-Nazi or white supremacy ties have been thwarted in their attempts to take down the grid. For instance, last year, three men pled guilty to a plot to take down the grid in the name of white supremacy. The plan was essentially to sabotage three different electric substations across the US to kind of sow unrest, cost the government money and and lead to a race war, which is how they described it. Four men in North Carolina were also charged in 2021 with a similar conspiracy to attack this critical energy infrastructure while espousing neo-Nazi views.

3 (5m 39s):
But of course, on the other side of it, ultimately the pair that was charged in Washington state, for instance, they were not connected with neo-Nazis or alt-right or anything like that. Their motive was robbery. They were hoping to rob places nearby and, and wanted to cause an outage to kind of assist in that.

1 (5m 54s):
Okay, so some of these are thwarted by authorities, but some of these, these attacks have actually happened. Tell us about those.

3 (6m 1s):
The Duke energy incidents, for instance, in in North Carolina, in that case, around 45,000 customers lost power. After two different power substations were shot.

10 (6m 11s):
More than 30,000 people are still in the dark this morning. Some crucial places like the sheriff's office here are running on backup generator power. An official tells me that the damage to these substations was so severe that some of the parts have to be completely replaced and it takes time to ship those replacements. In,

3 (6m 29s):
In North Carolina, the authorities have not made any arrests that that we know of. It appears that they are still looking for the people who who took down the grid there and there. We haven't seen any evidence on who might have done that or what their motivations might have been. And then on Christmas day there were four power substations taken down in Washington state, which left about 14,000 people without power.

11 (6m 50s):
Officials at one of the substations say they arrived to find a fire that was set intentionally at others, they say there was forced entry and equipment was vandalized, causing a power.

3 (6m 60s):
Two people were charged in the attacks in the Washington substation. One man told law enforcement that he, another person had planned to disrupt power in the area and to commit a burglary according to court documents. And again, that attack left thousands of people without power.

1 (7m 15s):
So some of the attacks that have actually happened, in fact a significant number, they have not been about white supremacy, they've been about other things. The FBI though says white supremacy is a through line here. It is a trend here. Why do you think the authorities are saying it's a trend if many of the attacks that happen are not carried out by white supremacists or people with neo-Nazi ideology?

3 (7m 39s):
Yeah, I think because they've uncovered enough plots with the intent of taking down the grid, and in many of these incidents, they haven't actually found people who are responsible for these attacks and haven't been able to assign a motive. I think for them it's a, maybe a jump, but not a far jump to say that among the, the many instances that they have kind of where they have been able to foil these plots, some of those plots were not foiled and in fact did lead to, you know, some sort of attack on the grid.

1 (8m 11s):
Is there a broad awareness that there's vulnerability here and how are the federal government, the state government, local governments, how are they responding? Is there a sense that we should just post a couple armed guards outside of every substation in America?

3 (8m 25s):
Yeah, it's funny you say that because that's pretty much the exact question that the now chairman of ferc, which is in charge of maintaining the reliability of the bulk power system, he asked that exact same question.

12 (8m 35s):
Is the expectation that we can protect these assets all the time? Are we going to have armed guards at every substation, every transformer in the country in order to make sure this doesn't happen? Or is there some different level of expectation?

3 (8m 49s):
I think that federal regulators are increasingly aware that this is an issue and increasingly concerned about the vulnerability of some of these parts of the grid. But at the same time, the question is, you know, how much rate payer money? Because remember utilities, when they make these big updates, they're charging us as consumers through our electricity bills to make those updates. How much do we want to charge rate payers for these updates and, and for, you know, protecting a facility when not all facilities are the same in terms of how they could impact large parts of the grid. And so I, I think that there's, these incidents have certainly made federal regulators and states in some instances want to go farther, but I think that we're far from, you know, posting armed guards at every substation because that would be just incredibly expensive.

13 (9m 40s):
This is just like the North Carolina Utility Commission. They're extremely concerned, they're big concerned with cost. How are we gonna pay? How are we gonna make people pay for this? So I hope we can use some of all that money that's in that, that infrastructure act to start defraying some of the cost of, of the hardening that we know is gonna have to take place.

1 (9m 53s):
And so, I mean, without asking you to predict because you're a reporter, do you think there is a broad solution to this problem, or do you think we're gonna see this go on sporadically until something catastrophic happens? It, it almost seems like we might, we may be barreling toward a disaster here.

3 (10m 10s):
It will be interesting to see, you know, what comes out of the subsequent investigations here. You know, I, after there was a threat in 2013 against specific gas and electric and after that incident we saw a much bigger emphasis on physical protections and physical standards. Obviously there are still some holes in the system as you noted, because we're once again, you know, several years later seeing even more of those incidents. But I think it will be interesting to see, you know, what vulnerabilities federal regulators and federal reliability standards makers ultimately find in their investigation.

3 (10m 50s):
And you know, I do think that there are things that you can do to make a system more secure, right? I don't think it's a doomed cause, but there are also always people who are wanting to kind of disrupt the system. I guess if there's one maybe positive thing, regulators have been warning about this kind of vulnerability since the eighties and thus far we've managed to, whether it's through the FBI thwarting these attacks or whether it's from increased security, we've managed to kind of stave off some of the worst impacts. And, and we do know that, that our most critical assets are really, really well protected. I guess it, it remains to be seen, you know, whether any of these incidents are successful and how far kind of federal and state authorities are willing to go and making sure the most vulnerable parts of our system are protected.

1 (11m 48s):
That was Catherine Morehouse of Politico. Coming up next, what makes the power grid so vulnerable? Here's a question for you. How have apps like Tinder Hinge and Bumble affected our search for love, maybe even your search for love? In the new season of the show, land of the Giants called dating games, the Verge and the Cut are teaming up to uncover the secrets of the dating app industry and show what happens when your love life becomes their business. And indeed it does. In every episode they're talking to experts and industry leaders about how tech has affected our relationships. You'll learn the economics of the dating industry.

1 (12m 28s):
You'll hear surprising stories of real people trying to find love on an app. Find out what it means when you're romantic. Life is part of a company's bottom line. You can follow land of the Giants wherever you listen. New episodes are out every Wednesday.

15 (12m 45s):
Hey there, I'm Josh Muccio, host of the Pitch, A show where real entrepreneurs pitch real tech investors for real money. And this season gets a little saucy.

16 (12m 56s):
We knew that we were not going to join the same old sauce game. We were gonna disrupt 130 billion industry. We're coming after Hines.

15 (13m 5s):
We meet founders pitching everything from a better ketchup to a solution for one of the biggest problems today. Energy in

17 (13m 14s):
The future, the vehicles and garage is gonna be like of giant power plants that could be used to reinforce the power grid, substitute fossil fuel power plants, and allow more renewable energy on the network.

15 (13m 24s):
This season, 14 founders with 12 ideas big enough to change the world. If the investors invest, I would like to invest in this round, $300,000 new episodes every Wednesday. See you in the pitch room.

1 (13m 43s):
It's today explained. We're back with Jonathan Mune. He's a principal at Converge Strategies, a consulting company that focuses on energy and national security. And the pow pow power grid problem is well known to

18 (13m 55s):
Jonathan. It's definitely been something at the forefront of my mind for a long time.

1 (13m 58s):
I asked him, what makes the grid so vulnerable?

18 (14m 1s):
Right now, the way the grid is designed, it's, it's built with what's called an N minus one level of reliability, which is you could remove any individual component, meaning a specific node, a substation, a transmission line, and distribution line. And the grid should be able to solve around that problem. It'll continue to work. You'll find an alternate path, you'll find another way to get it done. But essentially what we see in a type of targeting, like this couple in Baltimore, you know, if they're looking at five different substations, that's obviously well beyond the contingency that utilities are really supposed to plan for.

1 (14m 34s):
What do these substations look

18 (14m 36s):
Like? Certainly they're very unsightly, which is one of the reasons why where these are located tend to be either away from where people live or if they are close to where people live. Companies typically try to obscure them because nobody wants to live next to one of these things. Essentially you're looking, looking at a fence line and inside of it is really just a, a complex network of machinery and components that are really there to make sure that you're maintaining stability of the electricity flow in that particular area. Yeah,

19 (15m 4s):
Amber, these sites can be pretty physically vulnerable. I'm here at the site in Carthage, that was one of the sites that was targeted this weekend, but it does have a fence behind it. But the rest of the station still very visible to a person with a gun that's looking to fire at it.

20 (15m 18s):
Many substations remain vulnerable targets like this one we found in Southern California that serves more than 300,000 customers. Huge transformers protected by a chainlink

18 (15m 31s):
Fence and essentially it's just there to take it from one voltage level to another so that it can be usable by consumers that live close to those substations.

1 (15m 40s):
Does the fact that they're out of sight, out of mind, out of necessity? One might say cuz nobody wants to look at them. Does that make them more vulnerable?

18 (15m 47s):
In some ways it really does because essentially there's, there's no style points when it comes to substations. It's pure function over form in terms of how they're designed. One of the challenges though is when you're looking at the expense associated with building a substation, upgrading a substation, maintaining a substation, it's significant. It's a major asset for a utility. And the hard part is everything's expensive. And so when you're making decisions about what you're going to spend money on, essentially what you want is that initial function above everything else, which is making sure that there's adequate number of transformers that are, are there to handle the amount of capacity that it needs to deliver to, to customers. And so it, it really takes that mentality first and then there's a lot of questions about what other things you can do to make sure that it's more secure and, and that's where the price tag starts to go up very, very quickly.

1 (16m 38s):
Does the level of security at these substations, is it adequate, given how vital these places are?

18 (16m 45s):
I think generally speaking, the security falls below what we would normally expect for something that's that important. Now what I will say is that utilities aren't just leaving the front door open, right? And just letting anybody walk in there that wants to, I think the biggest challenge that they have is the sheer volume of substations that are out there. There are almost 80,000 substations in the United States. There are so many of these facilities out there, and the hard part is you can't harden all of them all the way all the time and have everything that you want for physical protection because it really just becomes cost prohibitive when you consider what it takes in order to protect these. So I think generally speaking, what needs to happen is the baseline needs to come up.

18 (17m 26s):
Meaning that, you know, just kind of the entry level of physical security that's necessary for substations has been demonstrated in these recent events to just be insufficient for what we would expect given the importance of those assets.

1 (17m 39s):
Yeah, it sounds like if I'm one of the bad gals, all I need is a rifle and some bolt cutters and I'm on my way to causing a lot of trouble.

18 (17m 47s):
Yeah, unfortunately I think that's, that's really, really been demonstrated to be true, which is it does not require a lot of sophistication. It really requires simple tools that are readily available to really anyone who wants to perpetrate this type of attack. And unfortunately the methods are being more widely shared.

21 (18m 4s):
C B s news obtained a federal law enforcement bulletin that says Oregon and Washington State experienced physical attacks on substations using hand tools, arson, firearms, and metal chains, possibly in response to an online call for attacks on critical infrastructure.

18 (18m 22s):
So there are forums online, there are places that people can go that if they wanna learn more about what it takes to try and disrupt a substation, just trying to damage anything in the substation is not always gonna bring about the result that somebody who's attacking it would want to have. So having a little bit of knowledge about what components are most important, what pieces of those substations are most likely to cause an outage or, or cause a problem. Those are the types of things that if they learn and they have access to these simple tools already, it's not particularly difficult.

1 (18m 56s):
Who is doing this? Who is organizing people online about how to attack power substations?

18 (19m 1s):
A lot of the recent events have been perpetrated by what we call hvs, homegrown violent extremists.

22 (19m 8s):
The b I says, the man behind the Christmas day suicide bombing in Nashville was fueled by conspiracies and paranoia. The explosion damaged 41 buildings and knocked out part of at and t's communication system across the state.

23 (19m 23s):
A top former energy official claims an attack on an American power grid was terrorism. One or more snipers open fire, knocking out 17 transformers that send power to California's Silicon Valley.

18 (19m 36s):
So whether that's white supremacists or neo-Nazis, it's really just a group of people that are looking to essentially undercut the general faith and confidence in government. What's interesting is that even though it's not typically run by government, the grid is largely owned and operated by the private sector. It serves as kind of a proxy for government competence. So when critical infrastructure systems fail, right when there's a big outage in North Carolina, there's a big outage in Texas like we've seen in the last couple of years. It's the governor who gets called on the carpet even though they're not the one who runs the grid, they see this as kind of a proxy for government. And, and that makes it a very lucrative target for HVS because the ease of access and really the, the potential consequences to government officials, it just helps them achieve either social or political goals with a very low threshold.

18 (20m 31s):
In terms of the point of entry for sophistication,

1 (20m 37s):
We were talking about some of these recent attacks that have been thwarted by federal authorities, the F B I, which is really, really interesting. How is the b i copying onto the fact that these attacks are being planned?

18 (20m 49s):
If it's a lone wolf factor, right? It's just an independent person that's out there doing their thing. There's essentially some limitations associated with the legal pathways that are available to prosecute or investigate individuals in this particular space. Now, without a doubt there are stiff federal laws related to attacking infrastructure no matter what. So if it does happen or when it does happen, they can throw the book at 'em, but obviously you don't wanna wait until the terrible thing happens first. And so when you look at kind of the confluence of these, really like the Venn diagram of the people that are plotting for these types of things, people that are incentivized to do these types of things, it gets back to that domestic terrorism, that homegrown violent extremist and that infrastructure terrorism that really speaks to really the network of planning that happens around these types of things.

18 (21m 41s):
They have to get the equipment from somewhere. They have to get the knowledge and expertise necessary to execute the attack from somewhere. And there's a level of organization that's necessary for targeting infrastructure that at least gives, you know, law enforcement authorities a little bit more ability to investigate these types of things because there are those forms. So that information's being shared, there are places where people are being radicalized and, and see this as a pathway to achieve a political objective.

1 (22m 9s):
Do you think from what you've seen is security enough of a priority?

18 (22m 13s):
Physical security, especially in recent years, in the last decade, doesn't have anywhere near the prominence of both the level of awareness within the general public or the level of funding that's been dedicated to it as cybersecurity has cybersecurity and, and security professionals in that particular area have done a stellar job honestly, of raising the overall public awareness of cybersecurity risk? I, I don't think you could find a person anywhere at this point that doesn't acknowledge the fact that cybersecurity is real and it's potentially a problem when it comes to physical security. I think what's been interesting is there just really haven't, outside of things, just like routine theft, there hasn't been a lot of physical security risks to great infrastructure.

18 (22m 57s):
But now what we're seeing in the last couple of of years and really especially in the last, you know, 12 to 18 months is it's raising in prominence because it's, it's being taken advantage of. The lack of physical security is now being seen. And so I think when it comes to security as a priority, physical security is, has not raised to the level of prominence that cyber has.

1 (23m 19s):
And so what are some possible solutions as you see them, aside from just like put an armed guard in front of every power substation, how do we fix this problem?

18 (23m 28s):
So understanding that in an average substation, a chain link fence with cameras that are not being monitored in real time and is an unmanned facility that's probably not gonna cut it anymore, that's not gonna be enough. Now there are substations and I live close to one that is heavily protected with tall ballistic walls that are impenetrable to any readily available weapon that somebody would just try and shoot at it. You can't get in it, you can't shoot at it, you can't even see it from the street because they recognize the importance of the substation. So somewhere in there is going to be this tiered approach of saying, okay, well if we have almost 80,000 of these substations, we have to get better from the bottom up.

18 (24m 18s):
The lowest level of security that currently exists today for substations isn't enough. And then there just needs to be a clear understanding of where that cost benefit tier really exists of saying this is, this is enough to get us at least to a risk reduction level that's acceptable, but it's never gonna be impenetrable.

1 (24m 48s):
Today's show was produced by Victoria Chamberlain and edited by Matthew Collette. It was fact checked by North Carolina's own Laura Bullard and engineered by Patrick Boyd, who also lives in North Carolina. Hmm. I'm Noelle King is today explained.