1 (2s):
Among the thousands of state ballot measures that passed during the 2022 midterms was Oregon's measure one 14. It's a gun control bill. It passed narrowly 51 to 49, more or less. But it's the law. It requires people to get permits when they buy guns, ensures police keep a database of gun owners and bans some high capacity magazines. But after the law passed, some sheriffs in Oregon made a declaration.

2 (28s):
I don't want people that currently have those types of magazines with their guns to be fearful that we're going to just start pulling people over and and confiscating them and arresting it for it. They

1 (39s):
Don't like the law, they aren't gonna follow it. Elected officials, which sheriffs for the most part are saying they're only gonna enforce the laws they feel like enforcing. Sounds outrageous, but it's happening more and more in the us. We'll tell you why. Coming up on today explained it's today explained. I'm Noel King. Maurice Shama is a staff writer for the Marshall Project. He's been looking into the precise role that sheriffs play in a country where most places also have police forces and police chiefs. Maurice told me a sheriff is different.

3 (1m 20s):
They've come to have this very distinct role in American law enforcement where almost every county in the United States has one. There's a few states that don't, a few cities that don't, but mostly every county has one. And then within the county their role can vary. So in some cities they're primarily running the jail. They are the kind of warden of the large facility where people who are under arrest are held, pending trial and sometimes after they've been convicted. And then in a lot of America, including I would say especially rural areas, the sheriff really is the chief law enforcement officer and is in some ways effectively the police chief.

3 (1m 60s):
He or she is overseeing the deputies who do the bulk of the policing in the community. And that's everything from traffic stops to homicide investigations.

1 (2m 11s):
Maurice has been tracking the evolution of a group of people who have come to be known as the Constitutional sheriffs.

3 (2m 18s):
The constitutional sheriffs. There has been a movement that has adopted that term in the last 10 or so years. And they essentially believe that their power and their authority within their counties is greater than that of the state legislature, the Governor, Congress, the President, et cetera, any other level of government. And they, because of that, argue that their duty is to the citizens that elected them and then to the Constitution. And what that means at a practical level is that they are choosing to enforce laws based on what they think the Constitution says. But it comes down to the term meaning essentially sheriffs who police based on their own interpretation of the Constitution.

3 (3m 7s):
In early 2020, a lot of governors started to issue lockdown orders.

4 (3m 13s):
Moments ago I signed an executive order directing Arizonans to stay home, stay healthy and stay connected.

3 (3m 22s):
And often, you know, the legality of the lockdown orders was contested. People were filing lawsuits. It was very chaotic time. And you started to see a number of individual sheriffs in states across the country come out on Facebook, on Twitter. They often have a really direct line of communication to their constituents because they are effectively politicians. And they said, I am not going to enforce this law. The governor is saying, you know, close your businesses, close your barbershops, et cetera. And we're not gonna do that. We're not going to arrest anyone who is opening up their shop to customers during the statewide lockdown.

3 (4m 1s):
We are not going to ticket anybody who is not wearing a mask and they functionally made their own law within their counties when it came to covid 19 restrictions.

5 (4m 11s):
I have no problem informing the governor that I am not gonna arrest people or cite him over his illegal orders on constitutional orders. It's not gonna happen. The majority of my job is to protect the citizens civil liberties and their God-given rights under the Constitution. That's the sheriff's job. And I take it serious.

3 (4m 37s):
You know, when I started doing this reporting on sheriffs, I would just ask friends, family members, can you name a sheriff? And by and large the names that tend to come up are Joe Arpaio from Arizona

6 (4m 48s):
Is higher than me. I am the elected sheriff by the people. I don't serve any governor.

3 (4m 57s):
And David Clark, who was a regular presence on Fox News about five years ago, he was the sheriff of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

7 (5m 6s):
So when these Trump supporters come in, they have to be in a better position to be able to defend themselves. I would tell 'em, arrive in packs, travel in packs, make sure you have a couple of enforcers in those packs in case something gets outta hand.

3 (5m 18s):
Our PA and Clark would regularly repeat this rhetoric that we've been describing, saying that they are the most powerful and important figure in their county, and that they will go their own way and refuse to enforce laws that are passed by state legislatures or Congress.

6 (5m 35s):
They're not going to scare me away, make me stop enforcing all the laws. I took an ultimate office to enforce all the laws.

3 (5m 43s):
Now the vast majority of sheriffs who subscribe to this movement are not household names. And really I would say the movement arose primarily in rural areas. Places with, you know, fewer than a hundred thousand people in the county, sometimes even fewer than 10,000 in the county. Really being kind of bold figures in this movement and and really voicing the rhetoric and sometimes even attracting national attention here and there in the media for their beliefs. So one example that comes to mind is Nick Finch. He was the sheriff of appropriately titled Liberty County in Florida.

3 (6m 23s):
Nick Finch was one of these sheriffs who got some attention for basically freeing people from his jail who'd been arrested on firearms violations. And the sheriff deputy arrests this person, but then the sheriff comes along and says, you know what? No, I believe in the Second Amendment. And I, my interpretation of the Constitution and of the Second Amendment is such that I don't think anybody should be arrested for owning a a weapon. And so the phrase that was used in that county I recall very specifically was un that it was getting un,

8 (6m 54s):
I made my decision based on the Second Amendment and what the Second Amendment says.

1 (6m 59s):
How many constitutional sheriffs are there in this

3 (7m 1s):
Country? So there's a formal organization, the Constitutional Sheriffs and Peace Officers Association, or the C S P A for short. And they claim to have trained as many as 800 law enforcement officials. Some of these are now former sheriffs who have not been reelected. But my colleagues and I at the Marshall Project, we teamed up with a pair of political scientists who had studied sheriffs and we devised a survey and we sent it out to upwards of 3000 sheriffs around the country. We got about 500 responses. And of those responses, only a small number of sheriffs claimed that they were members of the Constitutional Sheriff's Association formally, but nearly half of those who responded agreed with the key idea that that organization promotes, which is that their authority as sheriff within their counties supersedes the authority of the state or the federal government.

3 (7m 55s):
Bruce,

1 (7m 56s):
That's a lot of people. What is the evolution of this? Who does it start with?

3 (8m 1s):
It all goes back to a man named Richard Mack.

9 (8m 4s):
This is Graham County where I used to be sheriff. This is where my battle against the Clinton administration to stop the Brady bill. It all started right here

3 (8m 12s):
In the early 1990s. The Clinton administration passed laws that were essentially aiming to restrict access to firearms.

10 (8m 21s):
This day is the beginning, not the end of our effort to restore safety and security to the people of this country.

3 (8m 29s):
And one provision of that law, which was called the Brady Bill, asked that sheriffs and other lo local law enforcement officials play a role in performing background checks on people who wanted to buy guns. And Richard Mack says, I don't wanna do that. And he in fact, teams up with several other sheriffs and the National Rifle Association and they amount this lawsuit where they sue the federal government and it goes up to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court sides at the Sheriff's,

11 (8m 58s):
Listen to this, this is the order of the court. The federal government may neither issue directives nor command the state's officers to administer or enforce a federal regulatory program.

3 (9m 13s):
And basically Richard Mac in that moment develops a reputation as the sheriff who was willing to stand up to the federal government in court. And he isn't reelected, but he parlays that Supreme Court victory into a speaking career where he's going around to various conservative groups. This is around the rise of the, the Tea Party movement in the late two thousands. He starts to appear in all of these conservative forums and over time comes to found the Constitutional Sheriffs and Peace Officer Association and become the primary mouthpiece for this idea about sheriffs on their own power. And so he starts carrying out trainings for sheriffs.

3 (9m 55s):
A few states start to say that he can be allowed to train their sheriffs for continuing education credits to remain, you know, licensed as a law enforcement officer. And his brand over time builds and builds to the point where you start to hear his rhetoric showing up in all sorts of forums and, and sheriff elections, debates, what have you.

12 (10m 18s):
The Constitution is the Supreme law plan. It has been since it was ratified in 1789. I don't understand why it would be, it would seem radical to uphold the Constitution and abide by it. We have to trust our, our law enforcement, our peace officers to protect our rights. That is the sole purpose of

3 (10m 38s):
Government. I have seen Richard Mac speak, I've interviewed him over the phone at some length, watched a lot of videos of him talking. And I mean, he is charismatic and he's a good speaker and he is a great deliverer of of his message.

9 (10m 50s):
Do you know the president of the United States cannot tell your sheriff what to do? You know who your sheriff's boss is. It's you and only you. He doesn't report to anybody else. The governor is not your sheriff's boss. He only answers to his constituents.

3 (11m 8s):
There are many communities where you have a sheriff that feels like they don't have enough resources to do their job properly. They are the kind of local spokesman for the community. You know, they, they try to really keep up with what the community says that they need. So they're really at the heart of, of community sentiment. And then you have a conflict with the federal government and they're gonna be conflicts. So, you know, a lot of land in the Western United States is owned by the federal government. There are often conflicts with ranchers about grazing rights, let's say. So these conflicts are inevitable. They're often pretty low stakes. But I think that Richard Mack came along at a time and took those conflicts and gave them a more distinct partisan flavor.

3 (11m 55s):
So at the same time that these conflicts exist, there's increasing partisanship in America. There's increasingly no way to see any political figure from sheriff to Secretary of State to dog catcher as beyond partisanship. And Richard Mack was sort of the man who swooped in at that moment and helped give language to these frustrations and sort of bestow these sheriffs with a rhetoric that could help them see their own role in a more partisan and more righteous path.

1 (12m 26s):
Is Richard Mack a dangerous

3 (12m 27s):
Person? I think that his rhetoric is absolutely dangerous in the sense that he, whether or not he actively thinks that his rhetoric is going to lead to violence, it frequently feels as though it is edging towards it. You know, when you're, when you're talking about ideas and rhetoric, it's easy to call something dangerous. But it's also easy as a speaker to just stay on this side of preaching violence. And, and Mack, for his own part, actually claims to preach nonviolence. He will say things that I think he knows liberals or people on the left would want to hear.

3 (13m 7s):
So he'll say that when George Floyd was murdered by a police officer in Minneapolis a couple of years ago, that a sheriff in his movement or a sheriff's deputy trained in his way of seeing the world would have potentially intervened and saved that man's life because they would've seen that, you know, the Constitution doesn't condone escalating a situation and killing somebody with, with a choke hold in the street.

5 (13m 31s):
They should have never happened. The peace officers of this country have got to reexamine the way we are trained. Cause this should have never happened to Mr. Floyd and his family.

3 (13m 43s):
And of course it's always easy after the fact to make these claims. But then on the other hand, he's constantly warning that if our, you know, election system isn't secure, very much repeating Trump's rhetoric here, that you may see more violence because people are so fed up. So there's this sort of like rhetorical move of almost predicting violence, but not saying you're condoning it yourself, but it's also ginning up this picture, the sort of apocalyptic picture that violence could be coming down the pike. And so in a way I think it's fair to say that it, that it edges awfully close to condoning violence

ClickUp (14m 22s):
Support for the show today comes from click up. And though I will admit I've never used it, I do have something in common with click up, which is I think we're both obsessed with productivity. Good thing I work for a daily new show, plenty to do. Click up is a productivity platform designed to save you a full day every week. That means more time for clients, for meetings, for eating snacks. Who doesn't love snacks? Here's how it works. Click up houses all your projects and documents and goals and spreadsheets and, and anything else you need for work in one place. So you're gonna spend less time clicking between all your tabs and your different programs you're running. You can help your team of 10 plus be more efficient and productive with Click Up listeners can use the code. Explain to get 15% off click ups, massive unlimited plan for a year. Meaning you can start reclaiming your time for under $5 a month. You can sign up today@clickup.com with the code explained.

Gastropod (15m 26s):
Okay, so open the champagne. So when your you're in sommelier school, they teach you that the pop shouldn't be no louder than a nun's fart. A pop that's no louder than a nun's fart. That's the sound. That means there's gonna be a celebration That's right around the world. December is often party time and we here at Gastropod are celebrating in style. We've Got a two part special mini-series for you this month with the stories behind two of these special occasion treats, caviar and of course champagne. Gastro Bud is the podcast that looks at food through the lens of science and history. So we are going to get to the bottom of why the eggs from a massive dinosaur looking freshwater fish are one of the most expensive foods in the world. And why champagne is in a different league to other fizzy wines like Kava and Prosecco. We also discover why champagne's bubbles were originally considered a flaw and how to give a sturgeon an ultrasound. Come join the party, find Gastropod and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts. It's today explained.

3 (16m 33s):
We're back with Maurice Shama, a writer for the Marshall Project who's been reporting on sheriffs, which seem like a uniquely American phenomenon, but in fact they're not. We inherited sheriffs from England originally. The term goes back to the phrase Shire Reeve. So you imagine a shire being like a equivalent of a county in England at some point. And this was a person who was appointed by the king to collect taxes, do some forms of law enforcement, et cetera. That role then came over the United States and as we were trying to gain independence from the British crown, we started electing sheriffs to give them more independence from the crown.

3 (17m 16s):
So baked into the role at the very outset is a sense of independence and a sense of being closer to the members of a community than people at more sort of higher levels of government. And over time that develops culturally.

16 (17m 34s):
I'm sure you and I can settle this little matter. I hope your reason for a comb or a handker, you for something. Cause we take a very di view of bribery in Mayberry. See bribery is one of the things we like to watch on account. There ain't much else to do.

3 (17m 49s):
So even people who have grown up in cities, if they have any sense of a sheriff, they may be imagining John Wayne,

17 (17m 57s):
You can keep your guns Colorado.

18 (17m 59s):
Thanks Sheriff. I don't want any trouble.

17 (18m 2s):
Well, I don't start any,

18 (18m 4s):
I won't as I tell you first

17 (18m 6s):
It's good enough.

3 (18m 8s):
Or you know, I grew up with the film Toy Story Woody, the main character and toy story as a sheriff,

19 (18m 13s):
Reach for the sky. This town ain't big enough for the two

3 (18m 19s):
Of us. And you have these little folksy phrases you associate with sheriffs, like, you know, get outta my town or grab a rope. And sheriffs I think come to play this uniquely American role that is baked into how Americans see ourselves, which is to say, as very locally oriented.

20 (18m 38s):
Tell me Sheriff Taylor, why don't you carry a gun? Oh,

16 (18m 43s):
I don't know. When a man carries a gun all the time, the respect he thinks he's getting might might really be fear. So I don't carry a gun because I don't want the people of Mayberry to fear a gun. I'd rather they would respect me.

3 (18m 59s):
Perhaps the pinnacle of this culturally is the Andy Griffith show. You know, from 50 plus years ago, the kind of kindly local figure who yes is law enforcement. Yes, he's got a badge and gun. Yes, he's incarcerating people in his jail. But the image is also somebody who's resolving local disputes, you know, in a nonviolent way and is the guy you call if your loved one is in some kind of, you know, bad situation, domestic violence, let's say, or or severe substance abuse that the sheriff is the the kind of kindly figure who is gonna step in. I will say that I often feel like that image is very white and it's very attached to a gauzy 1950s image of the United States, right?

3 (19m 45s):
So frequently you will have these sheriffs who say, you know, I am very close to one sheriff told me, you know, the heartbeat of my community. I'm very clued in on what people think. If you know someone's causing a crisis, they call me up just like Andy Griffith and I help. But because sheriffs tend to be white, they tend to be male and they tend to be conservative. And so they're often maybe getting those calls from white conservative constituents. And at the same time they often will be policing different communities to different levels. Chuck Jenkins, the sheriff of Frederick County Maryland, told me he still watches the Andy Griffith Show and really clearly saw himself as like attuned to the local dynamics of what people in his community need.

3 (20m 30s):
But at the same time, his department has been sued for racially profiling Latino people in traffic stops and has been accused of being extremely aggressive in teaming up with federal agents to carry out immigration, you know, sts and raids and incarcerate and help detain and deport undocumented immigrants.

1 (20m 51s):
So what's presented to us in pop culture is compelling, even you're saying for sheriffs themselves, but it's not the real story or it's not the whole story.

3 (21m 0s):
That's right. And, and let's zoom back to the 1960s. It was sheriffs who were violently and vigorously beating civil rights protestors and pushing back on desegregation efforts. You go back even further and there are countless examples of sheriffs playing a key role in lynchings. And going back, you know, a hundred years, there are plenty of examples of sheriffs being active members of the Ku Klux Klan and other white supremacist organizations.

1 (21m 25s):
And now some sheriffs are saying they won't enforce the laws, they're the laws. What is the justification for this when confronted? What's their answer, sir? You are not following the law. And the sheriff says what

3 (21m 39s):
The sheriff says. Well, the law violates the constitution and I have a higher Ty to the Constitution. What they don't say is sort of in parenthesis my interpretation of the Constitution, right? Because the Constitution often has very high flown abstract language. It's been picked apart and debated. We have a supreme court and a court system that aggressively picks apart the language in all of these pieces of the constitution and, and helps us understand whether individual laws violate the Constitution or not. But the sheriffs sort of curtail that whole process and say, no, I read the Second Amendment as saying no gun control, and that means I'm not gonna arrest anybody for owning an AK 47 or

21 (22m 19s):
Something. So I can speak for the sheriff as well as the entire Roosevelt County Sheriff's Office and we will not enforce any executive ordered gun ban. It's the oath of office and we take it seriously and, and we, we try to live by it at all times.

1 (22m 35s):
Are there places in the country where a sheriff has said I won't follow the laws and some higher authority has stepped in and said No. As a matter of fact, you will. You are overreaching. It is not your job to decide what laws you will and will not follow

3 (22m 49s):
The movement to resist it is pretty limited. There was a ballot initiative actually that cut the other way in Kansas this year where basically local county officials would have gained the right to oust a sheriff that they thought was abusing their power in some way.

22 (23m 5s):
Now here are the results. A vast majority of cans say they want to keep electing sheriffs instead of having them hired.

3 (23m 12s):
The opposite result happened with a comparable ballot initiative in Los Angeles. Just the county of Los Angeles residents of Los Angeles voted to give basically a county board the power to investigate and push out a sheriff that they felt was abusing their power. So you, you're seeing a few counties around the country, you know, consider and adopt policies whereby local county officials could, could exercise some power over the sheriff to to sort of push back on abuses. But it remains very hard to oust a sheriff who is abusing their power in some way.

1 (23m 47s):
How do we fix this problem? What is the solution here?

3 (23m 52s):
There have been a handful of solutions proposed. One is not having sheriffs or having a much more curtailed version of a sheriff or a sheriff who is not elected. So I think one way of thinking about this problem is the fact that because sheriffs are elected officials, as the country grows more partisan, there's increasingly incentives for any elected official to bolster their ability to get elected through partisanship. To take one recent example, the sheriff of Bear County, Texas, which encompasses San Antonio, came out and said, I'm not going to enforce any kind of abortion provisions that the state legislature passes.

3 (24m 33s):
I'm not gonna, you know, basically police people seeking abortions or providing them. You can see that he's incentivized in this hyperpartisan moment to kind of score points with his liberal base by saying these sorts of things. And then flip side of the coin, you have conservative sheriffs basically ginning up their support by casting doubt on the 2020 election. And in both cases it strikes me that when you have an elected law enforcement official and you have increasing partisanship, it's just a inevitably toxic mix where policing is going to get infected by partisan ideology to a greater and greater degree.

1 (25m 17s):
Today's show was produced by Hot Modi and edited by Matthew Colette. It was engineered by Paul Robert Moy. Today explains fact checker is Laura Bullard. And I'm Noelle King.