1 (1s):
Hi, I'm nilay

3 (1s):
Patel co-founder and editor and chief of The Verge and host of decoder a new podcast from The Verge in the VOX media podcast network of a big ideas and other problems for over a decade. I've been interviewing leaders from the worlds of Technology business and policy about how they run their organizations make decisions and consider policy changes that could fundamentally alter entire Industries with decoder. I'll be expanding these conversations with a diverse cast of CEOs. Policymakers and innovators some you know, and some you wouldn't expect so look for decoder with nilay Patel in apple podcast or your favorite podcast app.

3 (45s):
20 20 2012.

1 (56s):
It's like explained I'm Sean Rama's firm election day was yesterday and a lot of what we thought might happen happened. A lot of people voted

3 (1m 5s):
the highest voter turnout in a century and it comes down to two choices Donald Trump or Joe

1 (1m 11s):
Biden results are taking a while we

3 (1m 13s):
Exactly when we might know the result. This is an unprecedented election. President Trump looks

1 (1m 18s):
strong early on and looks a little weaker. Now you

3 (1m 21s):
may have gone to bed thinking this election was headed one way and then you woke up and you saw things for different and maybe trending trending increasingly in

2 (1m 31s):
another direction. We're

1 (1m 32s):
going to talk about the remaining election math and what the results mean for America on the show today, and we're going to start with Andrew Prokop and end with Ezra Klein Andrew. We're talking at about 2:00 in the afternoon the day after the big day. What do we know?

4 (1m 47s):
So the election is still too close to call there are several key swing states where no winner has yet been called and Counting of ballots is continuing in several States right now. It does appear that among the remaining States Joe Biden appears to have the better chance of Victory, but it's important to note that Trump can still win. He does have a path to Victory. We just have to wait for more votes to be counted to get a better idea of which way this thing will go

1 (2m 22s):
and of course we spoke to you about the path to victory for both Trump and Biden on Mondays show and you mentioned that there were these six pivotal States three are you know, Southward and three or sort of northward? Let's start with the South what happened with Biden and Trump there

4 (2m 37s):
Florida was called for Donald Trump pretty early in the night. They Count Their

3 (2m 42s):
votes. Weakly sorry to interrupt NBC News is projecting. Donald Trump will be the ultimate winner in Florida. And it's 29 electoral votes Trump had actually improved

4 (2m 53s):
his performance a bit since 2016 particularly in Miami-Dade County a heavily Latino County in Florida, but flutter was a must-win state for Trump. He really had to win it. So then we move on to North Carolina experts

3 (3m 9s):
say it is a must-win state for President

4 (3m 11s):
Trump, North Carolina. Was still too close to call as of this taping Trump appears to have the edge there. He's up by about two percentage points, but there is a lot of vote in heavily Democratic areas that remains to be counted. So the elections calling operations are still being a little cautious with regards to North

1 (3m 35s):
Carolina and the one Southern State remaining in the six you mentioned on Monday. Show is Arizona. What's the story there? So

4 (3m 42s):
Biden is Head by a few percentage points in Arizona and some election calling operations actually did call it for Biden on Election night. Most notably Fox News, which the Trump campaign was very angry

3 (3m 56s):
about. I'm sorry. The president is not going to be able to take over and win enough votes to eliminate that seven-point lead that the former vice president has

4 (4m 7s):
the Associated Press did as well other teams have been more cautious. Leading decision desk which Vox relies on for its own calls, but Arizona is an important state because if Biden wins it Trump's path to Victory really does get pretty

1 (4m 25s):
dicey and I imagine that leads us to

3 (4m 28s):
Michigan, Pennsylvania,

4 (4m 31s):
Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania. Exactly. Those are the three states that decided the election for Donald Trump in 2016. And those are the three states that could Side the election for Joe Biden in

1 (4m 45s):
2020

4 (4m 49s):
Wisconsin is the furthest along in its count it State officials said they're actually done with the count Biden is ahead by 0.7 percentage

1 (4m 58s):
points. And how many votes does that? So it's a 20,000 Vote or

4 (5m 2s):
so difference in Biden's favor that is within the threshold necessary for a recount. If Trump requests one, which he is requesting. It's generally considered to be unlikely that a margin like that could be overturned in a recount. Usually what we see is it has to be a lot closer than that for recount to change that has come so Wisconsin is looking pretty good for Biden right now. We should note that all three of these states officials were not permitted to begin processing the hundreds of thousands of mail ballots that have been piling up until election day or beforehand in Michigan's case.

2 (5m 40s):
So what happened is that on Night Trump appeared to

4 (5m 44s):
be ahead in all three of these states.

3 (5m 47s):
Joe Biden is ahead marginally in the count in Wisconsin. But again razor close some places filled with outstanding ballots

2 (5m 56s):
and has seen those leads gradually

3 (5m 58s):
dwindle and big question again is we think most of

1 (6m 2s):
these are male and early those and if they

3 (6m 5s):
are they could favor Joe Biden

4 (6m 7s):
in Wisconsin, and now also in Michigan Biden has taken a small lead,

2 (6m 12s):
but then the big question Question is Pennsylvania. They have been the slowest

4 (6m 16s):
account of this famous Trio and we just don't have a fantastic read on what is going on there. Right now. There have been estimates that the remaining vote to be counted is very very good for Joe Biden which you would need because he's currently trailing in the count and if that holds true then Biden would win Pennsylvania, but if Biden fall short in, Pennsylvania, Things are really interesting. Then Arizona could decide the outcome Nebraska 2nd congressional district, which Biden one could provide the one electoral vote necessary for Biden to win and avoid a tie a to 69 to 69 tie.

1 (7m 3s):
Okay, that covers the core six that we talked about on Monday show but there are still a few outstanding and

2 (7m 10s):
interesting races in play

1 (7m 12s):
here. Right? Yeah. So the

4 (7m 13s):
other two swing states that have not yet been called are Georgia and Nevada Georgia. That's pretty much a must-win state for Trump at this point. Trump is ahead there by a little bit. But again, we're waiting on heavily Democratic areas, too. Port more votes if I didn't wins that that that's another potential path to 270 for him whereas Trump pretty much has to win it to keep his options alive. Then you have Nevada Nevada only has six electoral votes and it's generally been considered a safe Biden State and the bedding from most is that it will stay in Biden's hands.

4 (7m 59s):
But his margin there is pretty small one of the stories of Tonight has been that Biden underperformed with Latinos to a certain extent so that could be an issue for him in Nevada.

1 (8m 11s):
Okay, so things look good for Biden but there's still the potential for a trump win here. The Biden campaign is saying things look good for them.

3 (8m 23s):
We believe we're on track to win this election. But Trump just straight-up declared Victory last night. We will win this and we as far as I'm concerned. We already have one. So I just want to thank you. How is this going to shake

1 (8m 38s):
out in the coming days and weeks? Well, it's a little too early to

4 (8m 41s):
tell in Wisconsin Trump has asked for a recount interestingly. We saw a tweet from former Republican, Wisconsin, governor, Scott Walker who seem to be throwing a bit of cold water on Trump's experience. Dictations that have recount could change his margin. He emphasized that 20,000 votes is a big number to have to change in the recount. So that could be a signal that if Trump makes some really exaggerated claims that the election is being stolen from him that perhaps Republicans won't go a long we've also seen Republicans are favored to keep control of the Senate right now. So Mitch McConnell might not want to rock that boat by doing anything to help out Trump, but you know, It's really just going to come down to how close things are in how many states if the election really does come down to a very small number of votes in Pennsylvania.

4 (9m 38s):
We are going to see lawsuits flying all sorts of wild efforts to gain the upper hand from both campaigns, but if either candidate wins enough of the remaining states to have some wiggle room, so to speak that could help avoid avoid this really contested outcome for instance think back to 2016 Trump won, Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania by just less than one percentage Point each, but he won all three of them

1 (10m 10s):
which is to say he won them by the same more or less percentage that he's now disputing Biden won Wisconsin

4 (10m 18s):
by yes, but the issue here is that it did not come down to one state because Trump only needed one of those three states. To win the election. So for instance Michigan was very close in 2016, but Trump didn't need Michigan because he already had one Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. Obviously the Trump campaign is going to fight this they'll try to come up with something but it's just unclear what that would be at this point and whether it could stand up in the courts.

1 (10m 48s):
Okay, but just so people know what to look out for what are the paths to Victory now for Biden and for Trump,

4 (10m 54s):
there's one, you know, very well for Biden. It's it's Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania. That's all he needs if Biden loses Pennsylvania, he can get there with Michigan, Wisconsin and Arizona and Nevada. He could also substitute Georgia for Arizona and for Trump. He's really got a hold on to North Carolina, which hasn't been called yet in most scenarios. He has to win Georgia also on top of that he needs to pry away, Pennsylvania from by then and She probably needs to win either, Arizona or Nevada.

1 (11m 41s):
Andrew Prokop continues to cover the election along with the rest of the Vox Newsroom at vox.com since we spoke Vox has called both Michigan and Wisconsin for Vice President, Joe Biden and the Trump Administration filed a lawsuit in Michigan to Halt the vote count saying it was denied access to observing the opening of ballots might be a similar situation in Pennsylvania. The president's personal attorney Rudy Giuliani. Has said he's on his way to Philadelphia with his legal team massive cheating. Okay Rudy love doing Borat more in a minute. I'm today explained.

1 (12m 30s):
Support for the show today comes from guideline. If you're looking to do something special for your employees as the year winds down maybe instead of like a Christmas bonus or a gift you could offer everyone in your business of 401k plan with guideline guideline offers super affordable plans specifically designed to work for small businesses and startups. You can get things set up in as little as 10 minutes. And guideline will take it from there. They handle all the administrative red tape and compliance testing and Investment Management. So you can stay focused on running your business to find out more go to guide line.com explain and tell them you came from today explain for a limited time.

1 (13m 14s):
They'll give you $100 gift card. If you do not currently offer a 401k plan for your employees when you start your 401k plan with guideline again, that's guideline dot-coms explain. To get a 401k for your business. Don't forget that is guideline.com / explain and tell them today explained sent you. Support for the show today comes from the quip electric toothbrush. It's the kind of toothbrush that if you put it next to a bunch of other toothbrushes, it'd be like, hey, I'm smarter than all of you. The clip now has a smart electric toothbrush houses smart you asked.

1 (13m 57s):
Well it hooks up to your quip app and your device using Bluetooth to track how often and how well you brush it will give you tips and coaching to turn you into a bed. Toothbrush sure, you can earn points for daily brushing and bonus points for acing occasional brushing challenges at this point. You might be asking is he joking and let me assure you I am not the points can get you gift cards and discounts and free products. Anyway join the 5 million mouths already rocking the quip and start getting rewards for brushing your teeth today go to get clipped.com explained right now and get your first refill free as well.

1 (14m 40s):
That's Your first refill free at get clipped.com explained G ET Q UI p.com explain quip better oral health made simple and rewarding y'all. As a client we don't have a clear winner yet. The results are looking promising for Joe. Biden Trump still has a chance but what can we glean does far from how the country voted in this election? Not enough. I would say that we are

2 (15m 14s):
currently in an epistemic fog. We don't know how the countries voted. We don't know why the country voted the way it voted the data we do have is not good data. And so I want to be very humble about what I do and don't say if I were guessing predicting based on where we are. Now. I think Joe Biden is well favored to win the White House, but it's not a sure thing. I would say Republicans are well-favored to keep the Senate but it is not a sure thing though. I think it is more sure than Biden in the white house. I would say that we know for certain that Republicans going to keep their 6-3 on the Supreme Court and that they have managed to do very well on State legislatures, and this is very important in my view.

2 (15m 58s):
I'm giving them control over redistricting in the coming decade and it looks like Republicans will pick up a few seats in the house. So Pelosi will keep the gavel there. So I think the likely outcome here is we are headed for an era of divided government at the federal level Democrats at the White House. The House Republicans in the senate in the Supreme Court and then Republican control over the gerrymandering process, which is going to make democracy even harder to entrench in this country in the coming

1 (16m 25s):
decade, which is to say if we are about To see abide in presidency. It might look something like a second-term Obama presidency where you have ideas coming from the top and then struggling to be passed by a republican controlled Senate something Biden might be kind of used to I think that's right. I don't want to

2 (16m 45s):
overrun the analogy just because we're in a different era and coronavirus sure. But but if I had to bet I would say that's pretty much correct. You're not going to see with these numbers and FDR style hyper ambitious legislative presidency. You're not going to get rid of the filibuster. You're not gonna change the composition of the Supreme Court something. I've been arguing on my show and in my pieces recently is it the central fight in this election is about democracy. Are we going to become something closer to a democracy where an emergent multi-ethnic younger majority is able to translate its numbers into power or we going to keep in trenching this path to mine or Therrien rule. The way I would gloss this election right now.

2 (17m 27s):
And again, this could change it could change for the better or for the worse. But right now I would say Democrats have won the presidency and lost democracy.

1 (17m 35s):
Wow, and I think a lot of people seem to be surprised about this. Was there something about the polling which we didn't spend a ton of time talking about on our show, but we certainly talked to our colleague Andrew broke up about on Monday that misled people that gave people a false sense of a landslide or or a really dominant Biden Victory their couple things here. And

2 (17m 58s):
by the way, I want to commend the show. I think it's good not to spend too much time talking about the polling because the polling before the election always gives a sense of certainty. We don't really have the polling had Biden if I'm remembering the average is right something like eight to nine points up in the National and then something like Five Points up in Tipping Point States like Pennsylvania. Nationally, the Miss is going to be given what it looks like right now. Probably two to three point Miss in Donald Trump's And so it looks like fighting will probably have a four to five point popular vote lead. That's really quite big by the way. So nationally the polling is within a within a reasonable are arranged in some of these key States, Florida, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, the pulling this is huge.

2 (18m 40s):
I don't want to Hazard to guess exactly on how big but quite big I mean big enough that it was functionally useless. And so Yeah, so on the one hand that gave people a false sense of security on the left in particular I should know too. By the way the pulling was incredibly off in a bunch of the Senate races. So if you look at the Jamie Harrison Lindsey Graham race in South Carolina, if you look at Collins and Gideon in Maine, I mean in some of these cases what you have is pulling it was tightening towards the end or not getting pulled that much towards the end like in Maine but still the polling is of these races has created an impression of very close winnable seats for the Democrats and that really in a couple key spots did manifest and when you talk about those races in particular, I

1 (19m 23s):
mean, you can't look past the fact that tens upon tens upon tens of millions of dollars of record-setting money was dumped into these races to unseat people like Lindsey Graham or or Mitch McConnell and just none of that really worked out was that like it just a total Miss allocation of resources and of effort could that money have gone to other races or to other causes

2 (19m 49s):
even and yes, that was a total Miss allocation of resources and effort certainly in the case of South Carolina where the amount Harrison raised was eye-popping. It was just crazy crazy numbers because liberals hate Lindsey Graham and I said a point you reach very much a point of diminishing returns. It is a common thing going back for many many years now where you'll see these huge spending candidates. Look, it's a Meg Whitman a couple years back in California just flameout Jeb Bush and the 2016 Republican primary.

1 (20m 18s):
And so it always is

2 (20m 20s):
That in every election people donate emotionally. They donate viscerally they don't etiological e they don't donate efficiently, right? They are often putting their money towards a couple of key races that are really moving them. Like you saw this with the bed O'Rourke Ted Cruz race in 2018. And so then sometimes those Races end up close and maybe that money was well spent sometimes they end up really far and it's pretty clear that it wasn't, you know, the Collins getting race in in Maine probably was worth spending on that was a genuinely close race that you could really imagine a well-funded candidate it making a difference but it is always the case that some of the big names Senate campaigns and up overfunded compared to State Legislature races, which are really important compared to a bunch of like no-name house races that are really important, but it's not the case that if people weren't spending on these races, he would have given the money in a more efficient direction or to another cause right.

2 (21m 13s):
I like I think you have to understand some of that spending as like an expression of identity and commitment and frustration. Or even hope but more to the point. It's not being spent in a like people have their like donate to politics budget and they're just making application mistake. What they want to do is buy a little piece of beating Lindsey Graham and it's a little bit like gambling in that way and you know, so I don't want to criticize anybody for doing that. It's better than actual gambling. It's

1 (21m 38s):
sure it's worth noting that of course all this money was raised in the middle of pandemic in the middle of an economy that is flagging for a ton of Americans right now. Now did those issues make a significant difference here or was it like if you felt that the president was mishandling Corona you voted for Biden and if you were concerned about the economy you voted for Trump. Yeah, so I never

2 (22m 3s):
know how to read that. What I would say is that you're always at risk with those numbers of reading the rationalizations and not the motivations. So Joe Biden centered coronavirus in his campaign and as such when You ask a liberal. Why you voted for Joe Biden the thing Joe Biden and the Democratic party in general ran on coronavirus is going to be top most in their mind Donald Trump to the extent. He centered anything tended to Center the economy and in particularly economy versus coronavirus, right? He was very clear that like, we can't be an endless a lockdown. We need to get the economy moving. So when people vote for Donald Trump, they and you ask what's most important the thing he's been telling them is most important is what they say.

2 (22m 45s):
And so there is a way here in which it is not clear to me. These poll polling questions always tell you what you need to know. And also I'm in general a little bit mistrustful of the polling right now. And so I will say that I am surprised in the big picture way that the coronavirus and the poverty of America's response to it. The incompetence of America's response to it. The number of dead Americans the absolute devastation the economy didn't move the race more, you know, if you look at approval rating numbers, which are a form of bullying. I trust quite a bit more than Trust sort of like Wisconsin state election polling. Yeah II you can really see that Donald Trump's approval rating was unchanged from a year ago.

2 (23m 27s):
And if you look at the way this election is going to play out of whoever wins. It will be the case. If I didn't gains a couple million votes on were Clifton was in a couple you can potentially points on where Clinton was but it isn't a sea change. Its I keep thinking in my head like the phrase like everything happened and nothing mattered and I don't want to say nothing mattered in truth, right 200,000 people died did all matter right the the world is warming but what I mean? By that is it. This was the most tumultuous political era. I can remember everything happened. Right? I mean an impeachment happened a pandemic happened a massive recession happened. And what are we going to get? We're going to get an election in 2020 that looks a lot like the election in 2016.

1 (24m 6s):
Yeah. I mean, what does that say about Joe Biden was he perhaps not the right candidate to run against Donald Trump. It's hard. We don't know the counterfactual

2 (24m 16s):
here. It is possible that another candidate would have done better. It is possible and Candidate would have done worse. So on the One Hand by didn't seems to have lost ground among Hispanics particularly in Florida and Texas on the other hand. He has gained among whites. Which maybe is why assuming he does win Wisconsin Pennsylvania, Michigan will likely be the reasons why that's an electoral a efficient trade in a way. So it is genuinely hard to know. You can't rerun the election Bernie

1 (24m 46s):
Sanders performed a bit better among Hispanics during the primary a bit. First among white

2 (24m 50s):
voters if you're looking at Florida, which is where this seems to have been the most consequential that's a pretty heavy Cuban population. They are pretty against socialism in general. So it's not clear that he would have done. Well there he might have done quite a bit worse. We just truly don't know there's a real tendency after an election practically. If you feel sense of disappointment in it to say we did this it didn't turn out the way I wanted it to therefore. We should have done that but that could have turned out worse or could have turned out better, you know unlike in the forecast models. We actually can't rerun the election at that. Sometimes it with different candidates and Who and see how they all would have performed?

1 (25m 21s):
Well, one thing I think we do know for certain and you know, whether you support Donald Trump or whether you support Joe Biden what we saw yesterday and for the past, you know weeks of voting is historic turnout during a global pandemic during tanking economy while the president was trying to discredit the election, you know, that feels sort of remarkable. A lot of people were scared. Aired that you know, there was going to be absolute chaos in the streets potentially Civil War gun sales were going up and I don't want to speak too soon because they're there still is almost certainly, you know, legal challenges ahead.

1 (26m 2s):
But it feels like American democracy had at least a decent election day and maybe the bar is really low. But is that a hopeful sign?

2 (26m 16s):
I don't think American democracy had a decent election day. Exactly. I recognize what you're saying. So we have not at least at this point collapsed into political violence across the country. We do have the president of the United States trying to declare victory over night and sending out five tweets at least as of the time. I'm talking that have been identified as election misinformation by Twitter and suggesting that was coming is an effort to cheat and steal the election from him. So number one, we're already at a pretty low level. That's not a good night for democracy. Like that's a bad night for peaceful transitions of power. Even if it doesn't go anywhere and then we have an Action where if we were just talking about the popular vote and you want it we'd be having no conversation over who will win the White House Joe Biden is going to stomp Donald Trump in the popular vote the estimates.

2 (26m 58s):
I've seen as something like a 5 to 7 million volt lead now. It's probably going to be enough to win the electoral college too. But the fact that there's even some chance it would not be is astonishing the fact that there would be some chance that three out of six elections since 2000 presidential elections would be won by the loser of the popular vote is just astonishing again. I don't think that's going to be the outcome here. Who have would not be great. Um, then in the Senate Republicans again, I think they're likely to keep it at a very narrow. Margin. They're not going to win more votes. So when far fewer votes and then I mentioned earlier gerrymandering in the long-term about where our democracy is going and whether or not it is going to be anything that deserves the terminology of democracy, which I think it at least in its folk understanding which strikes me as correct for this tends to reflect like the popular tends to be a system in which the popular will Express itself through voting into power.

2 (27m 49s):
Like it's a good night. And I think it's looking towards a good future. So I'm a little bit more pessimistic on that dimension of this and then that I think you are.

1 (27m 56s):
Yeah, I guess when I see, you know highest voter turnout in a century and consider that it happened during a pandemic that's taken 200,000 American lives. I just feel quite frankly like happy to see people out there voting people caring no matter who they voted for.

2 (28m 14s):
Yes, the the level of turnout is remarkable, and I think you're For bright spots. It's that I don't know. I look at this election. Look at this president at I look at the way. He is governed which is poorly and the way he has approached his office, which is cruelly And I don't think it should have been this close. There is a kind of political correctness in journalism where you can say on some level like the president is doing a bad job and that's sort of okay. You're not ever really supposed to question. How about our see him? Right if you're doing that then you're condescending or something. I think the president is a bad president who operates without a moral compass and he proves that every single day and just as it a nerve Min 2016.

2 (29m 3s):
It unnerves me. Now so many people are find his behavior acceptable. I don't think it is acceptable. The question here is not like do I think stimulus multipliers are two three or one point to its I think I should be basic standards of decency. And I don't think Donald Trump is above them. I think we should be basic standards of respect for how the American political system functions and like Donald Trump clears them.

1 (29m 30s):
And so

2 (29m 31s):
yes, we had a very high turnout election, but Donald Trump is Going to best his numbers from 2016

1 (29m 37s):
and that puts a pit in my stomach if I'm being

2 (29m 39s):
blunt with you and that's not because Donald

1 (29m 42s):
Trump is a republican. It's because

2 (29m 45s):
he is a kind of figure that I had hoped more Americans would reject on a

1 (29m 50s):
moral level to

2 (29m 52s):
say nothing then of a confidence level. Whereas you say we've had more than 200,000 people die from coronavirus, but the fact that America's had one of the worst responses of Any well-off Nation as an awesome.

3 (30m 3s):
Affect our politics much at all.

1 (30m 5s):
So yeah my take on this is more pessimistic. I would

2 (30m 9s):
say or maybe it's more realistic.

1 (30m 16s):
Thanks Ezra. Thank you. You can hear more of Ezra on his show the Ezra Klein show and we'll have more for you on this election as the story develops this week. It's today explained.

3 (30m 44s):
Hi, I'm Neil Patel co-founder and editor and chief of The Verge and host of decoder a new podcast from The Verge and the VOX media podcast network of a big ideas and other problems for over a decade. I've been interviewing leaders in the world of technology business and policy about how they run their organizations make decisions and consider policy changes that could fundamentally alter entire Industries like Senator Ed Markey on the future of connectivity in America. Broadband has become the equivalence of Water or electricity for people and dceo. Dr. Lisa Sue on building the next generation of processors. The idea was technology is you have to make a set of choices three to five years in advance Google an alphabet CEO Sundar pichai on the current crisis and adapting to it Kohler does blurred the lines between consumer and Enterprise and people are using products in all kinds of contexts and Neil Young on.

3 (31m 37s):
Well his feelings the MacBook Pro. It's a piece of crap. Are you kidding with decoder? I'll be during these conversations with a diverse cast of CEOs policymakers and innovators some you know, and some you wouldn't expect we'll talk about how they're navigating and ever-changing Landscape what keeps them up at night and what it all means for our shared future. We're asking tough questions going to break some news and we're going to have some fun. So look for a decoder with v-line Patel in apple podcast or your favorite podcasts.