2 (2s):
This episode is brought to you by US Cellular. There's never been a better time to switch to US Cellular because now when you do you'll get 50% off select new smart phones like the Samsung Galaxy S 10 e or the Google pixel for a great choice on a great phone now, that's fair US Cellular choose Fair terms apply.

1 (39s):
Remember President Trump's travel ban. It's been a while. Right but the travel ban is back. In fact, it just got an update.

2 (47s):
So it's going to go to into effect starting February 22nd, which is next Saturday. It got kind of buried in the news cycle a few weeks ago. But now it's really for real,

1 (57s):
Nicole marea covers immigration of vocs and she's been covering travel ban 2.06 new countries are on the list

2 (1m 5s):
Myanmar Eritrea Kyrgyzstan. Nigeria Sudan and Tanzania are now being added but the restrictions differ by country and only affect people trying to permanently immigrated to the u.s. Rather than all travelers.

1 (1m 18s):
Okay. So what exactly will it mean for people from Myanmar Eritrea Kyrgyzstan Nigeria Sudan and

2 (1m 25s):
Tanzania immigrants from Kyrgyzstan Myanmar Eritrea, and Nigeria will no longer be able to obtain green cards or visas that provide a path to a green card, but they will be able to come to the u.s. On Prairie Visa is including those for foreign workers tourists and students the proclamation also bars citizens of those countries as well as Sudan and Tanzania from participating in What's called the diversity Visa Lottery. It was introduced in 1986. That's a program that Trump has been trying to dismantle for years and under that program fifty thousand applicants from countries with low levels of immigration to the US are selected at random to be offered green cards.

2 (2m 6s):
But refugees and existing Visa holders won't be

1 (2m 9s):
affected. So what's the reason President Trump is giving for expanding his so-called travel ban. We have to be safe. Our country has to be safe. You see what's going on in the world. Our country has to be saved. So we have a very strong travel ban and we'll be adding a few countries to

2 (2m 26s):
so the administration says it wants these countries to meet the US has security standards which include sharing information with us authorities and interpol on Holes and terrorists as well as issuing electronic passports in an effort to deter fraud. They basically want to prevent terrorists and other criminals from entering the US

1 (2m 47s):
and how real is the threat of terrorism from these six

2 (2m 50s):
countries. The thing is most of these countries are dealing with various forms of internal threats that don't necessarily pose an immediate threat to the American public. Let's just take Boko Haram the Islamic militant group in Nigeria. For example, it's been known to conduct deadly suicide bombings kidnappings generalized violence. There are some concerns among National Security Experts that the group's ties to the Islamic State could mean that it could start directing attacks the US and that's particularly given Nigeria strong economic and diplomatic ties to the US but the thing is even if that turns out to be true these new Structions from the Trump Administration which are just blocking permanent immigrants aren't going to stop terrorists a terrorist could still theoretically come to the u.s.

2 (3m 41s):
On a visitor Visa. So it's not clear why this would make us any

1 (3m 44s):
safer. So how hard will this hit Nigerian immigration?

2 (3m 50s):
There is a huge Nigerian diaspora in the u.s. Nigerians make up by far the largest population of African immigrants living in the u.s. There about 327,000. The u.s. Is also a huge. Source of remittances sent back to Nigeria about 6 billion in 2017. So this would have a huge impact not only on Nigerian immigrants seeking to come to the US but also their family abroad and many of them continue to like maintain very deep connections with their family in Nigeria, which is Africa's most populous nation and its largest economy.

1 (4m 24s):
So is this like an attempt to like sort of bam African immigration in a way

2 (4m 30s):
that's what a lot of Advocates are calling this An African ban, the president has had a history of seeking to discriminate against African immigrants the diversity Visa Lottery program that I mentioned earlier. That's a huge way for African migrants to come to the u.s. And for many of them. The only way so Trump has been trying to dismantle that for years and that's sort of scene is a direct attack on African migration in particular Trump is also said a lot of things about African migrants that maybe aren't worth. Repeating but like that one thing. He said that he wanted to keep on Africans from shithole

1 (5m 7s):
countries. Right, how can we forget? Hmm? And this is just another big step in that

2 (5m 13s):
direction. Yeah. Trump has really prioritized welcoming immigrants from places like Norway and Western European countries. So this feels discriminatory,

1 (5m 25s):
but that said Myanmar and Kyrgyzstan are not in Africa. How did they get added to the list?

2 (5m 30s):
The Trump Administration has provided the same rationale about these countries not complying with its security standards the decision to include Glued them as a bit surprising. So at least for Kyrgyzstan. It's about 85 percent Muslim and it's an ex-soviet Nation, but it's recently made efforts to distance himself from Russia. And so National Security Experts question that decision just because it really is making efforts to align more with Western interests Myanmar on the other hand has been engaged obviously in a large-scale ethnic cleansing campaign against the rohingya Muslims, so that could be some somewhere. Now that sort of clamp down on Myanmar for doing that

1 (6m 11s):
interesting. So we have on one hand another sort of extension of the so-called Muslim ban, but also including Myanmar where Muslims are persecuted

2 (6m 21s):
the rationale doesn't seem entirely consistent. This isn't what the administration is saying. This is just what people are speculating could be the actual rationale Behind These bands. But as I said, the administration is just saying that they want them to start complying with their security standards.

1 (6m 36s):
We just did an episode covering the crisis. Has the rohingya are facing in Myanmar could this travel ban exclude the rohingya from coming to the United States as refugees fleeing ethnic cleansing.

2 (6m 46s):
The administration says that this won't impact Refugee Admissions. And anyway, so I think the rohingya would still be able to come under the restrictions.

1 (6m 54s):
Hmm. Did this news come as a surprise that the president was expanding the travel ban. I mean after the news leaked about him wanting to have more immigrants from Norway and fewer from so-called shithole countries. Is this just to Expected that he's going to ban black and brown people from coming to the country.

2 (7m 12s):
It's definitely thematically consistent. Yeah that way. Yeah, but we also knew that the administration was considering expanding the travel ban since at least last September and the Supreme Court's ruling on the Travel ban back in 2018 left that possibility wide open and that sense. It's not entirely surprising news, but it doesn't make it any less troubling that the administration is imposing these restrictions based on what a lot of experts considered to be a thin. In National Security

1 (7m 39s):
justification, how are these countries responding? Especially Nigeria where we're seeing a lot of immigration to the United States

2 (7m 44s):
Nigerians were entirely blindsided by this. They have been a huge partner to the US and counterterrorism efforts as well as an economic partner. They export a huge amount of oil to the US. So Nigeria's top Diplomat has recently said that this was catching Nigeria off

1 (7m 60s):
guard. We were somewhat blindsided with the announcement of the visa restrictions by the by the US.

2 (8m 8s):
But the thing is is that the restrictions can be lifted at any point. Oh,

1 (8m 11s):
yeah, we're putting in place the architecture that will now make that the information and the data on that immediately available to the u.s. And all the member states. The member countries of

2 (8m 22s):
Interpol. This could be a kind of carrot for Nigerian diplomats and for all of these other countries to comply with what the US wants in terms of its security standards.

1 (8m 37s):
My full name is Doctor Oh, yay. Oh Wally. Wha I found out that Nigeria was add on to the list about a week ago folks who still want to come here as visitors can still do so however are not allowed become permanent citizens. My parents came to the United States and mad at Northeastern University in Boston. So they met their decided to get married and have children and raise them in Boston. So in my parents case if this policy was enacted Four years ago, I wouldn't be here today. We have a lot of family members are still in Nigeria which include cousins and my grandmother so a very concerned about how we were going to take care of our family back home health-wise and financially as well as we were concerned about some our friends who also had extended family in Nigeria.

1 (9m 26s):
I was extremely extremely upset because this was Again part of Donald Trump's racist and xenophobic agenda. And I personally believe that keeping Nigeria on the banned list until Nigeria finds a way to address terrorism is a red herring. I also see a lot of discrepancies between countries that have posed a risk to Americans in the past versus not so in September 11, 2001. Most of the attackers came from Saudi Arabia. However, there were not included in Donald Trump's original Muslim ban. People have theorized that Donald Trump. This is entanglements different countries affect his policy as a Nigerian American and a Muslim.

1 (10m 14s):
I look at his policies as a direct finger at me saying you are not welcome here. Even though I've done my best to provide for my community. I take care of my family. I still feel like I'm not good enough for Donald Trump. This growing travel ban might just be President Trump's preferred way of doing diplomacy. I'm Sean Rama's Forum as after the break on today explained.

2 (11m 3s):
Hey, it's Kara Swisher. You may know me as the only person who looks cool wearing sunglasses indoors. But in my spare time, I host a podcast called Rico decode every week. We talk about power change in the people. You need to know around Tech and Beyond some of my recent guests include Edward Snowden Megan Rapinoe and the cast of The L Word which was a huge thrill for me. If any of these sound interesting to you, you should listen them now on Rico decode subscribe to the show for free on Apple podcast or in your favorite podcast app to be the first to hear new interviews every week.

1 (11m 36s):
Hey, so I've been getting emails from listeners and sometimes even tweet saying like how can we support the work that you are doing that today explain is doing that Vox is doing and usually I'm just like I don't know share it. But now there is a different way to support today explained and vaux Vox is launching a contribution effort right now and vox.com give you can give money you can contribute to help Vox make podcasts to The explanatory journalism that you depend on and right now in this crisis is more important than it's ever been so you can choose what that work is worth to you and give to support Vox and today explained and all the stuff that you love that we do go to vox.com give right now and make your contribution just a heads up.

1 (12m 29s):
It's not tax deductible. But thank you so much for your support. Nicole when we left off you mentioned that the administration was willing to lift this ban if say Nigeria complied with certain rules and met certain standards is the ban basically being used as an

2 (12m 54s):
ultimatum. Yeah. It appears that the administration is trying to impose these restrictions in an effort to get these countries to comply with their security standards and perhaps under the table work on some other issues that are outstanding

1 (13m 8s):
has the United States done this before with like other

2 (13m 11s):
Trees Belarus was actually previously on the list of countries that were supposed to be covered by the ban, but they were recently taken off after a lot of experts pointed out that Belarus has been making efforts to distance itself from Russia. It

1 (13m 25s):
kind of would be nice to see like Belarus on the list like a country with I don't know,

2 (13m 30s):
you know more more white people. Yeah, and I have to speculate that perhaps they were hoping to put Belarus on the list precisely for that reason, so that Advocates wouldn't be saying Then what they're saying now, which is that this is an African

1 (13m 43s):
ban. Do we know if the administration is doing any you know, like back-channel diplomacy like this with other countries where they're threatening putting a country on a list like this in exchange for some diplomatic end.

2 (13m 59s):
So at least the u.s. Is relationship with Mexico has really taken on a theme like that at the White House today President Trump showed reporters a piece of paper that he claims is a secret agreement with Mexico. To stop Central American migrants heading to the US they threatened to impose tariffs on all Mexican Goods. Unless Mexico complied with what Trump wanted to do on immigration enforcement

1 (14m 25s):
immigration agents in southern Mexico seemed eager to prove they're cracking down on Central American

2 (14m 31s):
immigrants Mexico ultimately complied with what the administration wanted them to do, which is impose the National Guard on their southern border to prevent migrants from coming up to the u.s. Mexico border and trying to cross

1 (14m 44s):
They appear to be pulling looks like a family their children as well off of this one band. They've been checking people's documents. They pull them out of the car and take him into

2 (14m 53s):
custody Trump is trying to sort of arm twist countries and to doing what he

1 (14m 59s):
wants with immigration bands and tariffs. Yes. I mean when you talk about this like not working out with Belarus in Mexico, it feels like this is all but an actual form of diplomacy that the Trump Administration is resorting to hear. Is that what this is

2 (15m 13s):
Trump likes to take the strongman approach and that's definitely what he's been doing in the case of imposing these bands. He knows that if he can bully country into doing something then why wouldn't he and indeed like we've seen a total gutting of the state department under his tenure. He thinks that a lot of diplomats are kind of soft. As compared to the immigration enforcement arms of the Department of Homeland Security. He's been investing in those heavily while there's been a huge brain drain from the state department with senior officials leaving under discontent. The problem is though that this comes at at a major cost

1 (15m 50s):
what might result from this sort of shift in diplomatic approach.

2 (15m 54s):
It really could be the fraying of us relations with a lot of these countries which have been strong us partners in the past. I am not sure how Nigeria is Going to interpret this in the long term or how Nigerian immigrants in the US are going to interpret this in the long term, but this definitely feels like a blow to them. They are some of the most successful immigrants that the US has their Highly Educated they are going to feels like medicine comparable to other classes of immigrants and Nigeria is a major oil exporter to the US. So there's there's a lot on the line here for us relations with Nigeria. Also, this ban would affect almost 1.2 billion people On the African continent plus there are a lot of interests at stake and some of these countries where China and Russia are having competing interests with the u.s.

2 (16m 42s):
So Chinese Turkish Russian and British firms are all trying to sort of stake out their place in the future economy. So the span really could distance the u.s. From African nations at a time that's critical economically.

1 (17m 3s):
On the other hand. Is there a chance that this is playing very well to President Trump's base who seems to approve very much so of the job that he's doing

2 (17m 10s):
yeah, it's an election year and he knows that his base really responds to restricting immigration and his rhetoric about the wall and banning all Muslim immigrants to the US. That was something he said on the campaign Trail in 2016 infamously. So this really is just a continuation of that theme and we can expect him to hit that.

1 (17m 31s):
Art in 2020 Marianne Mendoza. I'm an angel Mom an angel Mom an angel dad. Angel families are someone who has lost a loved one at the hands of an illegal alien criminal in the country. I am voting for President Trump in 2020. Not only for his immigration policies, but for many other aspects of what's going on in this country. The present is MM barring people from becoming legal residents permanently. This is a pause and I trust the president more than I trust the majority of politicians in DC that he has the best interest of the American people at heart and this is why he's doing this a lot of times the Democrats talk about giving free higher education to DACA participants to people from other countries to give them free college if that was all given to American citizens.

1 (18m 30s):
Think about the higher. Education, you know our citizens would be getting in filling those jobs that they claim we need foreigners to fill President Trump understands that Americans deserve to be the number one priority of American politicians. We cannot take care of the whole world. We cannot be the open door

2 (18m 52s):
to every Refugee and every sob story across this world,

1 (18m 57s):
you know, there's enough homeless people and people who are barely making it on a day-to-day basis in America who are citizens who deserve to have a president to place us first. And this

2 (19m 9s):
was what has

1 (19m 11s):
awoken the patriotism in this country is we have a president who recognizes that