1 (1s):
Defense. Secretary. Lloyd j Austin made a public appearance this week. Good

2 (5s):
Day everyone. Thanks for working across time zones.

1 (9s):
His first, since he vanished without leave, while being treated for prostate cancer. Now this made news because pulling a runner is typically not the done thing for defense secretaries, but also right down to the 9 1 1 call. Austin was trying to keep this secret.

3 (24s):
Can the ambulance not show up with lights and sirens? We're trying to remain a A little subtle. Yeah, I understand. Yeah, usually when they turn into a residential neighborhood, they'll turn them off, but they're required by law. Run with them with the main street. Curious if we need them to take him to Walter Reed Medical. Is that

1 (43s):
A possible, we're gonna talk about why all the secrecy. And if you're a man of a certain age, you might already know exactly why. So we're gonna answer some of your harder questions too. State of the prostate Coming up on today explained

The Vergecast (1m 0s):
The Macintosh computer just turned 40. And longtime tech journalist, Walt Mossberg, who has one, has some thoughts on why it stuck around. I don't know of another computer that's 40 years old. I mean, what Apple sit down for the Mac is the way all computers, PCs work. This week on the Vergecast, we talked to Walt about the Max journey over four decades and where it might go from here. Listen, anywhere you get podcasts,

Un Hedged (1m 27s):
I'm Ethan Wu, host of Un Hedged the Markets podcast From the Financial Times on the show, we answer questions like, are we gonna see another financial crisis? So I, I guess where we land at the end of the day is there is a lot of scope for things to go bad here, but maybe not quite 2008. Ugly but smaller, ugly. It's the worst, it's the worst way to describe your second child. At least he doesn't eat much. Listen to on Hedge, wherever

0 (2m 1s):
This is today. Explained.

7 (2m 4s):
Hi, my name is Tyler. I am calling in regards to the prostate.

0 (2m 9s):
Tyler

1 (2m 9s):
Is calling in regards to the prostate because we asked you guys about something.

8 (2m 14s):
Hi, my name is Paul, I'm from Colorado. I'm calling to comment about, I think the question was why don't men want to talk about their prostates

9 (2m 23s):
In general? I think the fear comes from how the exam is conducted. you know, with duct, somebody bending over and then the doctor having to inspect from the dairy

8 (2m 37s):
Air apparently. I don't know this myself, but as I understand it, that Prostate can be stimulated. I guess it's a good thing for the guy don don't know. Personally,

9 (2m 48s):
For me as a gay man, I think there's a lot of homophobia that's tied into that

1 (2m 53s):
Beyond some of this Dar air discomfort. You had some big questions about a cancer that kills 3% of men.

7 (3m 2s):
How accurate is the Prostate screening process and does it pass on from one generation to the next?

8 (3m 9s):
I'm calling not about Prostate cancer, but unfortunately about colon cancer, which really affects the same region for guys and a lack of awareness and attention to that area. It was the most foreign conversation I've ever had. And the first one I had was when I was diagnosed with cancer after my, my colonoscopy.

1 (3m 32s):
Okay, there is a lot here. And so we called up Howard Walinski, who is himself a lot.

10 (3m 40s):
I'm a writer based in Chicago. I'm the former medical editor of Chicago Sun Times. And I, I've been a newspaper guy for, in a writer for over 50 years. And I'm also in grad school now for a master's in public health because I've sort of become dedicated to this issue because I was so pissed off by what I saw in the way I was treated 13 years ago. I was diagnosed with low-risk prostate cancer and came this close, my fingers are close together of having surgery that in the end it turned out I didn't need.

10 (4m 24s):
And it put me on a path that I never expected of creating support groups for men with low risk Prostate cancer like I have.

1 (4m 35s):
I wonder if we can get very basic, very remedial for a second and you can just tell us what a Prostate is and who has one.

10 (4m 44s):
The prostate itself is a gland. Often you'll hear it's the size of a walnut, but that's kind of misleading. I mean, when a boy is born, it's a tiny little thing. As you get older, it grows larger. So If, you hear, hear people talking about walnuts, think young. If you're talking about grapefruits, think old. So what, okay, where is this cland? It's, it's situated below the bladder and in front of the rectum, and it surrounds a part of the urethra, the tube in your penis that carries the pee from your bladder. And so, okay, what does the Prostate do?

10 (5m 26s):
Prostate helps make some of the fluid in semen, which carries a sperm from your testicles when you ejaculate.

1 (5m 35s):
Ah. So y'all need your prostates. Humanity needs your prostates. Yeah,

10 (5m 40s):
You, you need your Prostate up to a point. And, and I should point out too, if a man lives long enough, he's gonna have prostate cancer and probably won't even know it. Something like 80% of men, 80 and above have prostate cancer. you know, it's a disease largely of aging.

1 (6m 1s):
Howard, one of the reasons that we really wanted to speak to you was because you wrote a column and it's called, I understand Why Defense Secretary Austin kept his prostate cancer quiet. What made you write that piece? What were you thinking?

10 (6m 17s):
I understand why Austin would wanna be quiet, but the sub sub headline was to the effect that, you know, he should be more open because he could help other people. I was watching the news with one of my sons and I said, dollars to donuts, it's Prostate cancer. And, and my sons, I think, think that I have Prostate on the brain because I'm an advocate. But here's why I thought this was the case with Austin. First of all, his age, he's 70 years old. The average age for diagnosis with prostate cancer is 66.

10 (7m 0s):
Second of all was his race. Black men have a higher incidence and a higher mortality rate from prostate cancer. So if I were a betting man, I would've bet that it was prostate cancer. Well, I did bet dollars to donuts. Right?

1 (7m 17s):
And you won the dollars.

10 (7m 18s):
Well, I didn't even get the donut. Dammit.

1 (7m 21s):
Why did he keep it secret?

10 (7m 23s):
Well, of course only he could answer that. But I, I can speculate that he, first of all, he was afraid. He was afraid of what was happening to him. He was making some of the biggest decisions of his life. And for all we know, he was in a bit of a panic. He keeps state secrets. That's part of his training and that's his life. And now he's dealing with a cancer. And so I suspect that, you know, he, his first reaction was to be secretive about it. you know, he was in the military and I think that, you know, it's a macho environment.

10 (8m 4s):
And so don don't think you wanna show vulnerability. I don't think you wanna show vulnerability about a cancer in a sexual organ.

1 (8m 15s):
We asked our listeners today, Howard, was there anything they wanted us to talk about or to ask about? And one man said something he, he called in almost instantly.

9 (8m 26s):
In general, I think the fear comes from how the exam is conducted. I've always been told as well that the pleasure from Gaza comes from the Prostate. And for some reason there is a lot of stigma attached to, you know, being vulnerable in a quote unquote, to have your anus inspected in that way.

1 (8m 52s):
I'm a woman, okay, so I don't actually know what's going on in these exams, but can you talk a bit about what happens in a prostate exam that seems to make men so uncomfortable?

10 (9m 2s):
Well, you're, you know, you're exposing your butt to the air. You bend over a table, you know, so you're sort of vulnerable. A doctor could be a male, could be a female doctor, puts a glove on and puts a finger or two in there and feels the surface of the prostate looking for bumps, lumps, so on. I personally, you know, I didn't find it that uncomfortable. I didn't find it that embarrassing, but it's been a number of years since I've had one.

1 (9m 41s):
Dr. Michael Lipman, an oncologist at the Yale School of Medicine is here to help us dig a little deeper.

11 (9m 47s):
Rectal examinations are helpful in some cases, but in some cases they can actually be a false positive. You can think you feel something, even if you're very experienced and it turns out to be nothing. And so, you know, I, I know it's a barrier for some people who don't want to even talk about prostate cancer screening 'cause they're worried it's gonna end up in a rectal examination to the question of having an orgasm ejaculating with a rectal examination. I've never seen it. It's a quick examination and I don't think it's a big concern that someone will, you know, instantly have an orgasm from having a, a rectal examination. The main way that we screen people for Prostate cancer is using a blood test called PSA that stands for Prostate specific antigen.

11 (10m 28s):
It's quite accurate. It doesn't find every Prostate cancer. And in fact, in people who have a, a lower PSA, you can still find Prostate cancer, but it's a very good tool that does detect the majority of aggressive cancers at an earlier stage.

12 (10m 42s):
Hi, my name is Keith. I live down in southwest Florida and I've had prostate interest for many years. I'm 75 now, but probably for the last 20 years at least, I've had elevated numbers for that and came out with a clean bill of health even though I've had numbers on the test as high as 25, I think it was four or once, but not sure why those numbers go around.

11 (11m 7s):
You know, we just said that that PSA is a great test, but it is prone to fluctuation. you know, PSA is a protein that's made by the Prostate and it's made by cancerous tissue in the prostate. It's made by non-cancerous tissue in the prostate. So it doesn't perfectly distinguish between cancer and not cancer. In most people it doesn't fluctuate. But you know, we see this very, very commonly where there are these wide fluctuations.

1 (11m 32s):
What is treatment for prostate cancer typically look like?

10 (11m 35s):
The most common treatment options are, especially for low risk, are active surveillance, which is close monitoring of the cancer, which is what I do. Radiation therapy and radical prostatectomy. And some men it's hormonal therapy, which is androgen deprivation therapy.

11 (11m 60s):
So successful treatment to me is the right treatment for the right patient at the right time. Every person is different and every treatment and every plan has to be different. And so for some people it's not treating the cancer and some people it's careful monitoring and doing what we call active surveillance. In others, it is local treatment to the prostate involving surgery to remove the prostate or radiation in some cancers that we find they have spread beyond the Prostate. And then it's really a multimodal treatment and involving systemic therapy, hormonal therapy, and potentially chemotherapy and other treatments. So prostate cancer is interesting because it is one where you are balancing multiple risks. You're balancing the risks of the cancer itself, the risks from the treatment and every person's preference.

11 (12m 45s):
We know that the cancers that are ultimately lethal and aggressive probably start at a younger age. And you know, they could be as early as thirties or forties or fifties. Most men are diagnosed with prostate cancer in their sixties in the US and that's usually because they haven't been screened earlier. So the guidelines from the American Neurological Association and other organizations recommend at least the consideration of getting a PSA test at age 45 and earlier. If, you have a stronger family history. So If, you have a first degree family relative, a father or a brother, or a known strong family history of cancer or black or African American ancestry, those are considered higher risk groups for which screening could be done as early as 40

1 (13m 30s):
Howard. you know, all of this, the worry around the test, the secrecy around when you're diagnosed, you don't wanna tell people. It makes me wonder whether prostate cancer is maybe even deadlier than it needs to be because so many men really don't wanna have awkward conversations with their doctors or don't wanna get a test. That sounds to me profoundly uncomfortable.

10 (13m 58s):
I Noel I have to tell you, is could be any, any worse than what the doctors do to, to women with vaginal exams?

1 (14m 6s):
Absolutely not. Point taken. Thank you, sir. I'm gonna get in so much trouble with our listeners, but women do tend to man up a lot better than men. So, so I think one of the reasons that we're, we're we wanna have this conversation for our listeners and we wanna talk about this, is because we want to sort of draw attention to the fact that this diagnosis doesn't have to be the end of the world and the test itself doesn't have to be the end of the world. It's just sort of wrapping your head around, okay buddy, this is gonna be uncomfortable for a while,

10 (14m 41s):
But you know, if I can disagree with you a little bit, sure, sure.

1 (14m 45s):
You've earned it.

10 (14m 46s):
Okay. I mean, I'm, I'm on something called active surveillance. I maybe once a year have a PSA test and I have very, my doctor told me I have about the lamest cancer he is ever seen. Those were the words. But you know, when you're getting into this, you, you know, well there's two comparisons on the one end of the spectrum. Like me, it's the sleeping lion on the other end with advanced cancer. It's the snarling tiger. you know, they, you know, there's a huge difference. But you are, you're are where you're at.

10 (15m 26s):
And so you're gonna take that seriously.

11 (15m 30s):
You know, the challenge is that a proportion of them are dangerous and, and many of them are not. We encourage people to stay up to date on screening, but in fact, guidelines suggest that we should not screen people over the age of 75 or people with less than a 10 year life expectancy. Because finding cancers and treating them might not improve their life, might not improve their longevity.

1 (16m 2s):
That was Howard Walinski. Howard's gonna be back with us and we're gonna say goodbye to Dr. Michael Lieman of the Yale School of Medicine. Stick around.

On with Kara Swisher (16m 23s):
Hi everyone, this is Kara Swisher, host of the podcast On with Kara Swisher from New York Magazine and the Vox Media Podcast Network. This week on the show I talked to professor and historian Heather Cox Richardson about how we got here. Here being the age of Donald Trump and the rise of authoritarianism in America, We tend to think about the idea of dictatorships coming in tanks, for example, or with, with people goosestepping. And the reality is in this moment that more often people vote down a democracy that is, they vote into power. People who are pushing toward authoritarianism. It's a great interview, but it's not also despairing. I promise Professor Richardson still has hope for American democracy. You can listen to our conversation now, wherever you get your podcast. Just search for On with Kara Swisher.

1 (17m 18s):
It's today explained Prostate of the union. Today's guest is Howard Walinski. He's a medical writer from Chicago. He writes the active surveyor, Substack Howard. You were diagnosed with prostate cancer. Tell me about how that went.

10 (17m 32s):
I've told you it a hundred, a hundred times, I'm happy to tell it. 101. I dragged my wife along with me and we meet with a doctor and he says, and he's probably said it a thousand times, he says, I have good news and I have bad news for you. The bad news is you have cancer. You didn't tell me I had low risk cancer. You have cancer. The good news is I have a cure If, you come to my operating room next Tuesday. So the pressure was on to have an operation, but remember, you know, I was the medical editor of the Chicago Sun Time.

10 (18m 12s):
So I had already done my homework and found that there was something called active surveillance. And you know, if they found something I was gonna see, I get a second opinion. And so I, you know, got turned away. Well, I pushed away the, the this doctor and the first doctor and I went to see the second one. Second one said, you know, you're the poster child for active surveillance. He said, I predict in 10 years your cancer will not have grown. Well it was even better than they had. 10 years went by and it, no cancer had been seen in any following biopsies.

10 (18m 56s):
They had a total of six biopsies and only one was positive. It must have been on a bad prostate day. But you know, it still has implications 'cause you know you're suddenly a cancer patient.

1 (19m 14s):
We've talked a lot about how when men are diagnosed, they, they may keep it secret, they may not wanna tell anyone. What was your inclination when you got your diagnosis? You already knew a lot. You were, you know, you were, you're a health reporter. How comfortable were you telling people?

10 (19m 32s):
I was of a mindset of sharing a story. And so when I got diagnosed with prostate cancer, I started sharing my story in Facebook and suddenly I got a deluge of phone calls from brothers and husbands and uncles and fathers of, of female friends of mine in, in Facebook. And so, you know, not a doctor, but I can share with them my experience. And there's been, you know, since that time there's been a lot more research, a greater, a new generation or two of doctors who are more accepting of active surveillance. And so remember back when I got diagnosed, only 6% of us went on active surveillance.

10 (20m 17s):
Now it's up to 60% and state of Michigan it's 90%, which is where it should be. We're still lagging behind Sweden and uk.

1 (20m 27s):
We did an episode of today explained last year about menopause. It is not something that women used to talk about. It is not something that historically has been a big topic of con of conversation. But as time has gone on, you're actually seeing women in the public eye talk a lot about menopause. It's something that's gonna happen to all of us. We might as well get it out there. Are there any notable men who have discussed a prostate cancer diagnosis where you think, oh, the situation may actually be changing and evolving here. We might be getting more comfortable with this.

10 (21m 0s):
You know, it's interesting. I don't know. You probably remember Senator Bob Dole

16 (21m 5s):
In my many years of public service, I've never been afraid of fighting for what I believe is right. One of the most difficult battles I ever faced was when my doctor told me a couple of years ago that I had prostate cancer.

10 (21m 16s):
He, he kind of made it okay for men to talk about prostate cancer.

16 (21m 22s):
I'm asking all men to see their doctor for an annual checkup, not only for prostate cancer but for all problems such as heart disease and colon cancer that hit men. Especially hard.

10 (21m 33s):
The Congress is filled with these guys with Prostate cancer. They don't talk about it. And, but Bob Dole made it okay. He even ran for president after he had been treated for prostate cancer. I think that was a first, well, I mentioned Bob Dole, Harry Belafonte. I'm gonna add two more. Two people that the Secretary Austin can identify with Colin Powell and his fellow General Storm and Norman and Schwartz Club. That all four of these people that I mentioned were open about having prostate cancer. Arnold Palmer, the golfer, Warren Buffett, the Zillionaire, Elton John.

10 (22m 19s):
I mean it is like an honor roll of people in sports, in entertainment, politics to some degree, you know, are open about it. And so I wrote an open letter that I published in a newsletter I do called the Active Surveyor. And a lot of people, you know, prominent people in the prostate community signed it. Basically we, we wrote to the Secretary Austin that we hit his back. We would support him, but we wished that at some point he would share his story so he could show leadership and, you know, feel other, help other men feel comfortable with their diagnoses.

10 (23m 4s):
And you know, and in a lot of ways, you know, he, he blew it, but maybe there's time for him to redeem.

1 (23m 24s):
That was Howard Walinski, author of the Active Surveyor Substack, thanks to him and to all from the prostate community who called in. We really did love hearing from you. Thanks also to Dr. Michael Lieman of the Yale School of Medicine. Victoria Chamberlin produced today's episode. Matthew Collette edited David Herman engineered Laura Bullard fact checked Noel King. That's me, explained today.

Vox Media (24m 8s):
Alright, we've reached the end of the show. You're still here. We put jokes in the credits just for people like you. Now all year we're gonna continue to bring clear and fact-check reporting to this election, to the stakes. And we would welcome your support by giving a monthly or annual contribution. You're gonna gain access to expressions of our gratitude members only newsletters q and as with Vox reporters, Sean will come to your home or office and more to be announced. Our explanatory journalism takes resources and your support is a critical part of sustaining this resource intensive work. You can support our work at today explained by going to Vox dot com slash give and contributing today. There's also a link to give in the show notes now if this is not the right time for you, if things are economically tricky, we got you. We'll still be here for you. We'll be doing a show about the economy soon, and we thank you for your support in advance.