1 (2s):
In late September, Vladimir Putin held a big ceremony in the Kremlin,

2 (7s):
Pompous gra, or you could say grand if you're being kind. Ceremony in a kind of gold painted reception room, watched by the most important people in this government,

1 (17s):
The foreign minister was there, the head of the spy agencies

2 (20s):
And pushing basically says that Heon is now is a Russian city. It's Russia's forever. But anyway, if, if you go forward forever, turns out to be six weeks

3 (30s):
Tonight, euphoria in Heon, a major Ukrainian city now free from Russian rule, Ukrainians, hugging and kissing their soldiers, treating them as heroes. Autographing flags

1 (44s):
On today explained how Ukrainian troops pulled off a decisive win in her son and humiliated Vladimir Putin.

4 (51s):
A rare moment of good news in a war which has caused so much pain,

1 (1m 9s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King and you are.

2 (1m 12s):
My name is Luke Harding. I'm a journalist and foreign crossman with a guardian newspaper and a writer of books.

1 (1m 19s):
Describe Luke, if you would, where hair song is and what makes it significant in this war.

2 (1m 25s):
Heron is a port and a city in the south of Ukraine on the Nera River, which is a, a massive river with many tributaries that runs across the country, basically dividing Ukraine into two halves, east and west. It's a Russian speaking city, so, so people, there are native Russian speakers. It has a population or had a population of about 300,000 people, perhaps a little shy of that, maybe 280,000 before Vladimir Putin's invasion in February of this year. Its significance is it was the first and the only major regional administrative capital, which the Russians occupied. It was a jewel, it was a kind of prize, and it was a place that they captured very early on in the first days of invasion.

1 (2m 8s):
What happened on November 11th,

2 (2m 10s):
The Russians executed a massive and humiliating retreat. They basically abandoned territory that they seized early on in, in the invasion in February. We're talking about huge sway of territory on what Ukrainians call the right bank, the western side of the Nera River. It's a sort of bulge, including about 80 settlements. Its step land, its rustic. We're talking about fields of sunflowers, of villages with gravel roads, schools, cottages, lots of animals, geese, ducks, dogs yapping, pine trees, pops, and then the city, the sort of administrative heart of her own province, which is also called heron on this wide rather beautiful Depa river.

2 (3m 3s):
And Heron sits on one side of this and it's, it's a, it's a big functional, modern, busy city, or at least it was with, with an art gallery, with a near classical administration building with a train station

5 (3m 17s):
On this time we were like in prison, we could walk around the city, but everywhere we saw these Russian troops with weapon, they could just catch you.

2 (3m 32s):
And this whole area had been occupied by the, the Russians for, for eight months, and they packed up and having talked to people there, it seems that they, the Russian troops got an order about 5:00 AM local time on Wednesday, the 9th of November.

6 (3m 47s):
Yes, yes,

2 (3m 48s):
The telecom. And they got into their armored vehicles. They stuff them full of things that they'd stolen everything from microwaves to washing machines to, to ladies clothes, to, to whatever they could find. And they rolled off back across the DRA with some soldiers jogging across a pontoon bridge, others trying to swim over and, and some leaving in good order or military vehicles. So it was a huge Russian exodus, and I think a turning point in this, in this wall.

1 (4m 21s):
How did Russia take this city and this province in the first place?

2 (4m 25s):
If you sort of cast your mind back to February the 24th to the, the fear and dread and, and the horror in America and elsewhere at Putin's invasion, it was a sort of multi-pronged, a multi-vector assault with Russian troops advancing from the north, from be Ros through the forests surrounding Chino, the nuclear power plant from the east where there'd been a war going on already for eight years, over a T called the do bass. And then in the south where I had been standing in January, three weeks later, Russian tanks, armed vehicles came rolling over the scenic ismo, a place of ducks of high yellow feather res across this landscape.

2 (5m 4s):
And they kept going. And what's interesting is they went all the way through the sort of southern chunk of hair on province, and they got to a sort of key strategic installation, which is called the Antonovsky, or the Antonovsky Bridge, which is about two kilometers long, spans the Nera River and leads directly into he own city. And by pretty much I would say March the second, 2022, they had seized the city and a key part of southern Ukraine had fallen

7 (5m 33s):
Ukrainian officials say, the battles continue there and claim Russian forces are looting the city.

2 (5m 38s):
The Russians v Putin had thought that his troops would be greeted as liberators, that people would rush up to them with flowers and hug them and so on. And, and in fact, there was a military fight back by the Ukrainian army, which we saw most spectacularly around gif pushing the Russians back after about a month of fighting. But also in Kaison, we just saw civilians, hundreds of them, perhaps as many as a thousand gathering in the main square outside the administration building, facing off against the perimeter of Russian machine gunners of, of, of what the Ukrainian is called, technical vehicles. Basically armored vehicles, waving Ukrainian flags, singing patriot songs, holding banners, which said, in Ukrainian Hassan is Ukraine.

2 (6m 20s):
And shouting at these Russians saying, fascists, go home. Occupy us. We don't want you here. The first time this happened, the Russian soldiers were relatively restrained. They didn't do a huge amount, I think they were completely taken a bag by, by this. But gradually, and, and predictably, they became more and more brutal, and we saw Russian soldiers firing angrily into the air. And eventually by week two, hurling smoke grenades and forcibly breaking up demonstrations. And, and the darkest aspect of all this is that we saw really by, I would say the third week of March by around March 20th, 25th, something like that, a a massive sweep by Russian military police to round up anyone who had a sort of, what they regarded as the sort of pro Ukrainian attitude.

2 (7m 14s):
So we're talking about people who were in the police force, council workers, people on the upstate payroll, journalists, intellectuals, museum curators by kind of mid-spring people in Hassam were disappearing. They were being tortured in some places. They were being killed and, and, and murdered. And now the city has been liberated. You know, were piecing together some of those stories, and they are, they're horrific.

1 (7m 39s):
How on earth did Russia lose control after having such firm control?

2 (7m 43s):
Really what happened actually was, was Joe Biden happened, and, and the, the US administration and, and plus other western partners of Ukraine, including the uk by the summer, by I would say probably late June, early July, they started supplying Kiev. The government of president Vlo Zelensky were the kind of sophisticated, modern, heavy weaponry that Ukraine would be begging for. And, and so I think the game changer actually, or the, the critical enabler is how it's been described to me was the high Mar system supplied by America. It's, it's a highly accurate, precision guided long range artillery system where you scoot and shoot, I mean, I've seen them in, in southern Ukraine.

2 (8m 28s):
It's, it's, it looks like a kind of rather large green painted truck, but it's got a pod of six missiles, and they are devastatingly accurate ba basically if you, if you hit a grid in military parlance and military speech with these weapons, it will destroy, destroy everything on the grid. And, and so what the Ukrainians were able to do, sort of systematically and clinically from, I would say about July onwards, was to degrade Russian logistics roots and supply lines. And what the Russians realized that their horror was, that it was becoming increasingly hard to supply their, their forward forces in, in this large sprawling, rustic flat o list.

2 (9m 10s):
And I think probably by about October they had decided that it was just not viable to, to hold this territory on the, the right bank of the NEPA River Kason. And its in environs. And, and again, we know that not because they said, so obviously these conversations are secret. We know that because they began stealing everything. And when I say everything, they stole the city archives and cares on. They stole hundreds, possibly thousands of private cars, TV sets, microwaves. They went to hairs on zoo, and, and I kid you not, they stole the laas, the donkeys, the wolves. And, and, and, and, and not to forget they stole the raccoon, they stole the zoo's raccoon and bundle it in a sack and shipped it all off to crimee.

2 (9m 53s):
And so it, it was kind of clear that they were preparing an evacuation. So when they did leave, it wasn't a surprise. But at the same time, this was a deeply, deeply humiliating moment for Vladimir Putin.

1 (10m 4s):
What does Vladimir Putin do?

2 (10m 6s):
Of course, this was embarrassing. And Putin is a strong man, someone who, you've seen him, you've seen images who, who scuba dives, who, who fishes bare chested in Siberian rivers, who, who is an action man does judo, et cetera. And his troops were running away and or as one, one care on villager, put it to me, they left our village like goats. He said, like goats describe him as goats running away. And so, of course, how does Peter respond? Putin responds by doing what he's done several times, this autumn, which is to blitz Ukraine with deadly long range missiles, Fard from, from Russia itself.

9 (10m 45s):
Tonight, Ukrainians reeling from a relentless Russian missile barrage, the strikes targeting critical civilian infrastructure across the country from keve to hark to zaia in the capital city, 350,000 homes left without electricity, while 80% of residents lost drinking water, according

2 (11m 4s):
To Putin, is really in the most cynical way. He can't win on the battlefield. He's now trying to, to break morale among civilians and, and so to hope that he can win that way instead.

1 (11m 14s):
All right, so Vladimir Putin is one side of the equation, and the other side of the equation is vo linsky. How does he respond to Ukraine? Retaking her,

2 (11m 22s):
One of my colleagues describes Zelensky as Churchill with an iPhone. And, and what Churchill with an iPhone has been doing has been recording these messages both for a domestic audience and for the wider world, for, for Americans, for Brits, for whoever

10 (11m 36s):
We are ready for peace. But our peace for our country is all our country, all our territory. That's why we, we are fighting against Russian aggress.

2 (11m 48s):
He was quite careful when Kaza was retake. I mean, there was nothing TRAs about it. He said it was, you know, it was a great victory, but also urged people living there to be very careful of mines, to watch out for Russian soldiers, ORs, who may have stayed behind to cause trouble three days after the city was liberated, he came for himself. I mean, that, that didn't surprise me. He, he, he turned up to Keon. I mean, he, he, he's the kind of genuine action man in the way that flood Putin is a kinda fake action man. And there was a very moving ceremony outside the administration building where people had been dancing, celebrating, embracing soldiers, smoking, singing sort of slogans, and pretty serious looking Zelensky stood there wearing kind of olive green jacket, fleece jacket.

2 (12m 37s):
And he watched the Ukrainian flag being, being raised. And he saluted. I mean, he, he, he described it as not, not the end of the war. Again, channeling Churchill here,

10 (12m 46s):
He's at the beginning of the, of the end of the war. It's a bit about this long way, this war to the best heroes of our country,

11 (12m 57s):
Ah, is not the end. It not the beginning of the end, but it, the end of the

2 (13m 22s):
Ukraine has now recaptured more than 50% of the territory. It's lost since February the 24th. I mean, the Russian military is still there. It's still formidable. Putin still thinks against all evidence he can win this war, and it's not, is not letting up. But I think the shape of a Ukrainian victory, while we're not there yet, is sort of shimmering to view. It's, it's becoming a possibility, tantalizing possibility.

ClickUp (14m 19s):
Support for the show today comes from click up. What would you do if you had an extra day every week? I would try and jump in some water, not like a public pool, which DC does well, but a naturally occurring body of water that isn't totally polluted. If anyone knows where the good ones of those are at in the DC area, let me know. Click up wants to get you that extra day by saving you all the time that you spend clicking between different platforms and apps and docs and spreadsheets. So you know that they're saying might just be like a whole day every week that you spend wasting. And, and they can save you that time by putting all your stuff into one place for you and your team listeners can use the code. Explain to get 15% off click ups, massive unlimited plan for a year, meaning you can start saving time for under $5 a month. You can sign up today@clickup.com and use the code. Explained the offer ends soon.

14 (15m 27s):
This season. Uncover story.

15 (15m 29s):
He's the most articulate, he's the most savvy. He's very cunning.

14 (15m 33s):
It seemed like the perfect story, the kind that only comes around once or twice in a journalist's career. Like

15 (15m 39s):
He's very, very, it's why he destroys everybody

14 (15m 42s):
Out in the woods of Montana. One billionaire was creating his own world. Also. He could hide something truly despicable. Have

0 (15m 51s):
You heard of girls being like followed? Is that something you've experienced?

14 (15m 55s):
At least that's what we were told.

16 (15m 58s):
You ask if I consider him a friend or if he's someone I trust. Both are absolutely yes, I would trust him with my life.

14 (16m 10s):
This season on cover story, what actually happened,

17 (16m 14s):
It happens once in everybody's life. And this guy is a master liar, master liar.

14 (16m 20s):
Cover story. Season two, seed money. Listen, wherever you get your podcasts,

1 (16m 32s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. Luke Harding of the Guardian President Vladi Zelensky has called on Ukrainians to fight through the winter. And many military analysts were very surprised by Zelensky making that call. Why is it so surprising?

2 (16m 46s):
I'm not sure I actually agree with the military analysts. I don't think it's surprising. I think it's inevitable. I mean, the logic from Zelensky point of view and from that of his sort of chief general Valer illusion is that when your enemy is on the run, you you, you don't give up and give them time to regroup and consolidate. You, you keep going. And so we, we don't know where the Ukrainians will push next.

4 (17m 14s):
Ukrainian soldiers were given a hero's welcome as the crowd chanted for the military.

2 (17m 21s):
Certainly when I was there, it, it felt like war. It didn't feel like peace. I mean, it's easy to see these pictures of of Julin kras and I think I was all over. No, I I mean I was hearing the boom

0 (17m 33s):
Boom

2 (17m 34s):
Boom from Ukrainian artillery and, and also the whoosh Of outgoing grad missiles, which were, which were sort of blitzing over the DeNiro to, to Russian military positions on the other side and some incoming missiles as well. The winter will not deter Ukrainian forces. And, and just one other thing you have to understand is that people support them. There was no support for Putin's project hair on every, everybody hated the Russians. And so I think with the support of the local population, which is overwhelming, you can kind of mitigate some of the issues thrown out by the fact that it's cold, dark, and a bit miserable.

1 (18m 11s):
Do Ukrainians have what they need to fight through the winter?

2 (18m 14s):
I've seen lots of Ukrainian soldiers actually. I mean, I was in their frontline trenches around about the seventh and the 8th of November. I was having a little chat with a soldier from Lavi called Serge. He showed me his lunch. He had pasties. He was drinking grape juice. They were cooking for themselves in this kind of underground kitchen. They had a gas canister

19 (18m 32s):
Soup. Here you are please.

20 (18m 36s):
It's almost like a city in the forest for these guys. They've got the places to eat and kilometers of trenches.

2 (18m 42s):
And I looked at their sleeping quarters. I mean, even, even in the trenches, they're relatively snug. They have a generator to charge that mobile phones. It's not ideal, of course not. It's, it's tough, but it's durable. I I, I think the, the big concern, the strategic concern from the Ukrainian side is that this extraordinary anti crimin coalition led by America, led by the Biden administration might get fatigued. There may be political pressures. Everyone knows inflation is up, that economies are in poor shape. That that governments generally all over the place are pretty unpopular at the moment. They're worried about whether the west will stay the course. Now, for now, especially in the light of the midterms and the unexpectedly good showing by the Democrats, I think those fears are swayed.

2 (19m 26s):
But what the Ukrainians want, what they say they want is weapons, weapons, weapons. Still, they're burning through artillery at a tremendous rate.

1 (19m 34s):
And what about the Russians? Do they have what they need? They were in total disarray last winter.

2 (19m 38s):
I mean, we can expect more disarray from the Russian troops. I mean, there mean lots of videos of newly mobilized guys sometimes literally kind of scooped up in provincial Russian towns and villages being sent to the front after two weeks training, if you can call it that.

21 (19m 55s):
We were officially told that there would be no training before being sent to the combat zone. This recruit says we had no shooting, no tactical training, no theoretical training, nothing

2 (20m 5s):
Given inadequate clothing, nothing to eat, weapons that are old or don't work, and being flung into battle against, pretty experienced, pretty ruthless now, very effective Ukrainian army. And of course, what we're seeing is we're seeing huge casualties. A lot of Russians are being killed. A lot of newly mobilized troops are being killed as well. But I don't think this makes any difference because the, the point is that the Ukrainians is a democracy, right? It has sort of civil society, it has a journalist like me, you know, or from the New York Times and the Washington Post. We, we can wander around and do pretty much what we want, whereas Russia really is, it's not only an autocracy. I mean it's increasingly totalitarian.

2 (20m 45s):
I mean, it's, it's close to being a full blown totalitarian state where, you know, Putin doesn't care if 50,000 people are killed. A hundred thousand people are killed. 200,000 people are killed. And what's happened is we've had this mass mobilization with so far, I think as many as 80,000, but probably over the next few months, it's gonna be about 200,000 new troops sent to the frontline of the war in Ukraine. And Putin's calculation appears to be that these troops will turn things around, help stabilize the line, prevent Ukrainians from taking further territory, and also prepare for the spring when Russia will, will try and go forward again. That, that's the plan. But I I, I think actually the reality is that these mobilized troops, the, a lot of 'em don't wanna fight.

2 (21m 28s):
They suddenly don't wanna die. And I'm not actually sure if they will, if they make the difference the Kremlin thinks they will make.

1 (21m 38s):
And so if hair really is a sea change and Russia appears to be on its back foot, what's Ukraine's strategy at this point?

2 (21m 46s):
Well, I mean, Zelensky has been very clear that he wants to liberate all Ukrainian territory. All of it means not just the land that's been lost since February 24th since put invasion, but crimee, which, which Russia stole in 2014, and Hanskin Danette, which have been run by pro Russian seventies proxies for eight years as well. So he wants to completely evict the Russians and to restore his nation's borders as they were when the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991. And, and by the way, when, when an overwhelming majority of our Ukrainians voted for independence from Russia. So that's what he wants. Now, the, the may come a kind of inflection point or a sort of decision point, or a dilemma you could call it.

2 (22m 27s):
If and when the Ukrainian sees more territory in the South, whether they, at that point, they keep going to try and take back Crimee because that will be harder. I mean, carries on 99% of the population were against Russia and Crimee. It's tricky because there's definitely a genuine sort of pro Russian population there, if only because the pro Ukrainian sort of Chian left were forced out or have been arrested, deported, intimidated and tortured and so on. But, but essentially Zelensky said that he will not negotiate with this Russian president. In other words, Putin, Putin lies all the time. He cheats all the time. And they think that if, if there's a bad deal that Putin will just use, use a window and let's say to to his army and to attack year again.

1 (23m 14s):
Okay, do the flip side. What's Russia's military strategy now,

2 (23m 17s):
If I can be crude? It, it's, fuck you. Is essentially Russia's not been able to prevail. It wanted to take year for an installer, a pro-US public administration, that that plan failed, fell apart in spring, and the Russians were treated. It wanted to take Hachi, which is a big Russian speaking city, very close to the border and to the Russian city of Belgrade. That didn't happen either. That whole area has just been liberated by, by Ukrainians. And it wanted to build a kind of new imperium around the south and the Black Sea with ke on this, this, this port city historical city as a kind of key, key fulcrum that didn't work either. And, and so, so what Putin is doing, fuck, ally is just destroying as much as he can.

4 (23m 58s):
The truth is Moscow's force is built nothing and destroyed much. This is the TV tower, which they blew up as they left cutting telephone services and the internet.

2 (24m 10s):
There are missile strikes on, on Ukrainian energy infrastructure to make, make everything dark and to, to switch off electricity. But also what I've seen, what I've seen with my own eyes is Russians, for example, leaving villages in the south and has on province. And before they go, I was in a village called Mi Lava on the 11th of November, they blew up the school. It's a village for a thousand people, 300 stayed dream the operation. They blew up the school and they blew up the nursery where they'd be living. And they blew up the TV tab. So these villages, they, they didn't have everything but had pretty reasonable lives, have no school, they've got no heating, they've got no electricity, they've got no water, they've got no gas.

2 (24m 51s):
They've gone back 30 years as one of them put it to me, it's not just sort of killing people, rubbing them out physically, it's verbalizing Ukraine, turning it into a wasteland. And it's vindictiveness. There's something sociopathic about it. But at the moment, this appears to be current Russian military strategy.

1 (25m 12s):
Luke Harding of the Guardian, his book out November 29th is called Invasion. It's about the war. Today's show was produced by Victoria Chamberlain and Halima Shaw. It was edited by Matthew Colette. Fact checking was a team effort led by Laura Bullard and engineering by a theme Shapiro. I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.