1 (1s):
It looked a whole lot like Vladimir Putin was losing his war a few weeks ago.

2 (6s):
Ukrainian army kicking Russian arse, retaking a huge swath of territory, enforcing Putin's troops into an embarrassing retreat,

1 (14s):
Not just in Ukraine but with the Russian public too.

3 (19s):
The politician says Those people who convinced Putin the special operation would be over quickly. They took us for a ride.

1 (27s):
Now he's escalating that war and holding some shady elections to tighten his grip on Ukrainian territory.

4 (34s):
But the concept is claimed ridiculous because they are not even hiding how sham this vote really is. They said that they're gonna send a pretty heavy military presence to ensure peace and stability, but really it is a tactic of intimidation.

1 (51s):
Putin's escalation coming up on today explained

5 (1m 0s):
The case of a missing Indigenous Alaska women sparks new questions about other missing and murdered indigenous women, but when the cops stop looking, a team of local journalists step in to bring the truth to light, that's where ABC's thrilling new drama Alaska Daily begins. And where it's headed will have you on the edge of your seat. Starring two time Oscar winner, Hillary Swank Grace Dove and scandals Jeff Perry Alaska Daily premieres Thursday, October 6th on ABC and Stream. Next day on Hulu,

6 (1m 37s):
There's a big new gay movie out and one of its stars says when you're making a gay movie that you want straight people to watch you tread carefully.

7 (1m 47s):
Are you familiar with the concept of Shonda Sam?

6 (1m 52s):
Tell me all about that.

7 (1m 54s):
It's a Yiddish phrase and it's basically means you're embarrassing us. In front of the Gentiles,

6 (1m 58s):
We unpack the new romcom bros on into it. Vultures pop culture podcast

1 (2m 15s):
Today explained Sean Rams firm, and it was just like a dozen days ago when we had Mary e from the Washington Post on the show in an episode titled, Is Ukraine Winning? Now, Ukraine had just staged this wildly successful counter offensive. Russians were talking smack about Putin's strategy. Maybe Putin heard the show

4 (2m 36s):
He probably did and last week he definitely took action and he threw in a lot of wrenches, not only to Russians domestically, but in terms of the entire conflict. And for a lot of international leaders who are watching this closely. So a lot of Russians last Wednesday, they woke up to see their worst fears materialize and that is the mobilization in the country.

9 (3m 5s):
I think it is necessary to support the proposal of the Ministry of Defense and the general staff to conduct a partial military mobilization in Russia. I repeat, we are only talking about a partial mobilization,

4 (3m 17s):
Which basically means it's not the entire country that is set on the war path. So not like the whole economy, all the industries working towards this, but that means that a lot of men are getting drafted, called up and sent to the trenches. So Russian officials have said they're looking to get up to 300,000 people, but there's concern that might be more because they are reports of people being round up in the far eastern regions of Russia and in some small settlements. So there is definitely fear that the number will be much higher than that. And another thing that he did, he threatened to use nuclear weapons if he decides that West has crossed another line in the war in Ukraine.

10 (3m 57s):
In the event of a threat to the territorial integrity of our country and to defend Russia and our people, we will certainly make use of all weapons systems available to us. This is not a bluff,

4 (4m 8s):
It's not the first time we are hearing from him that he's, you know, inclined to do something as radical as this, but obviously it's not something we can just not pay attention to.

11 (4m 19s):
Whatever you believe that should make your blood run cold.

1 (4m 27s):
Let's start with the reserves. Who are these people that are getting called up?

4 (4m 32s):
So for now we're seeing that it's mostly people who have some sort of previous military experience. They probably served in the army. They probably have a, maybe a junior military rank, but they do have a rank. They are usually under 35 years old, although they are reports of people who are older than that being also handed these mobilization notices. And a lot of these people, despite the fact that they have some military experience that doesn't necessarily mean they've ever been in combat. They served somewhere. They have some profession that is like very technical and very important for the Russian front lines because they don't have enough people with that specific skill set. But you know, they are routing up a lot of younger men who not necessarily want to go to war.

1 (5m 16s):
And how does this differ from who's currently fighting this war in Ukraine?

4 (5m 21s):
So Russia went in with about a hundred hundred 50,000 people and those are people who are contract holders who signed a contract with the Russian Defense Ministry to be at military basis to serve and sort of be on standby. And now this effort is wider. So these are people who are not in the, currently in the Army. They might have a contract that is slightly different with the defense ministry that they are in reserve so that they can be technically called up in case of a conflict, but they're not actively on duty at all times like the other people. So it's just targeting more groups of of freshen.

1 (5m 56s):
Two weeks ago we were talking about how Putin was finally starting to see opposition at home, political opposition from the political apparatus in Russia, opposition from critics. How are people reacting now that he's calling on rank and file reservists to fight this war?

4 (6m 17s):
There's quite a bit of anxiety and in some cases all panic because what we've seen happen is people trying to get out of the country, people seeking legal help to sign up for maybe alternative service or to find legal ways to just avoid this call up and just not take part in this.

12 (6m 37s):
I feel that not really many lots of Russians, people want to to fight and want to be mobilized and want to go to the army.

4 (6m 44s):
They're worried mothers and and wives who are sending their children or husbands away from the country while trying to pack as much stuff they can possibly have to move abroad. All the flights are sold out from people in big cities, Moscow and St. Petersburg, especially the entire last week on each day, any direct flight to a visa free destination country that still allows Russians to come in, they were sold out. I am monitoring a lot of group chats, you know, these telegram channels that are giving live updates from various borders where Russians are crossing, how long the lines are, what did they ask, did they let you out? So there's a huge effort for people to kind of mobilize in a different way to avoid this mobilization.

4 (7m 26s):
And the very same day Vladimir Putin announced this general mobilization we've seen people take to the streets and protest against this

14 (7m 38s):
As people took to the streets against the call up. Hundreds were detained in dozens of cities from St. Petersburg to Siberia,

4 (7m 46s):
Which is quite remarkable just given that any sort of descend, any sort of public criticism of the war and of the authorities has been essentially criminalized in Russia. And people who do protest or speak out somehow they are facing fines, sometimes long jail terms and it's essentially much, much harder to protest. So while these demonstrations, you know, on Wednesday for example, were not as big as we've seen maybe 10 years ago when tens of thousands of people march across Moscow against Putin's reelection is still the biggest outpouring of public discontent since the beginning of the war.

1 (8m 21s):
Do we have any idea if Vladimir Putin will get his 300,000 reservists?

4 (8m 27s):
I think he will. I think he might even get more than that because Russia, what Russia has is a really big administrative resource. If you look at the general numbers of per capita, how many people serve in law enforcement, police, military, commissary, and so on and so forth, they have enough people to see this through. And also one other thing we can't really forget is that Russia, just the day before they announced this mobilization, made it really difficult for people to avoid military service. So they passed a bunch of amendments to the law, which has basically two purposes for people who are already on the front lines fighting in Ukraine. They get really big criminal punishments if they try to leave the service or try to give up and and go captive to Ukraine or something like that because there has been happening and there was a big problem for Russia because people were trying to like get out.

4 (9m 19s):
And second purpose of these amendments is also to ensure this mobilization is very difficult for people to avoid. So they don't really have much leeway once that you have the summons you have to go because otherwise you can be jailed.

1 (9m 32s):
So what will this mobilization mean for the war effort? Do we have any idea how much 300,000 plus reservists tips the scales in Putin's favor or not?

4 (9m 45s):
Even people who are independent military analysts and also prom, pro-war bloggers and correspondent, some of them have agreed on one thing that it doesn't necessarily mean that if you bring 300,000 people to the front lines, it's gonna tip the scale a lot because first of all, morale is a big issue here because these people are not, they don't feel like they have to do it. They don't feel that they are ideologically all out and are supposed to like go and do and fight and kill people. And second of all is that military experience and whether they've actually served in the actual art forces, whether they have some theoretical knowledge of combat, but not necessarily in your real knowledge and capability.

4 (10m 31s):
And another thing is equipment, because we know that Russia has already struggled to provide with enough equipment and enough personal gear to people who are already fighting a Ukraine. So to ensure that all these 300,000 people will have enough, even helmets, vests and enough ammunition and enough guns, enough heavier hardware is again a really, really big question. And another thing on top of all of that that we have to keep in mind is that military, actual military training they're gonna get is big question. Some of the people I spoke to say it's gonna be only two weeks, which is really not enough for some people who even, okay, even if they have common experience, some of them fought into church and more so that is over way over a decade ago.

4 (11m 16s):
These people are much older now and they have not been in battle for a really long time and warfare does change over the years. So whether they will be, you know, to fight on par even with themselves 20 years ago is a big question.

1 (11m 32s):
And if they're not, there's always the nukes or is that just a big bluff?

4 (11m 36s):
Well, everyone hopes it's a bluff. But Putin said in his speech that it's not a bluff. He directly said, this

1 (11m 41s):
Is not a bluff classic bluffing move. This is not a bluff, this

4 (11m 46s):
Is not a bluff. So he is very well known for ratting up the weather rhetoric and he's not known for backing down, right? So he obviously tries to tell Ukraine and tell the western community that is supporting Ukraine that the stakes are really high and he's prepared to go all out. He's not backing down and try to scare them and see who blinks first. And another concerning thing here is obviously the timing because winter is approaching so it's gonna be much harder for both sides to fight and is betting that winter will wear out Western support for Ukraine, but also the referendums that he has announced.

4 (12m 26s):
So what they're trying to do is use this as a pretext to enact for regions and eastern Ukraine that they have partially occupied. And once that happens, what's probably gonna be Putin's line and Kremlin's line is that these are now the territories of the Russian Federation. So any tag on these areas will be met with even more forest and even more, you know, a severe response

1 (12m 53s):
More with Mary in a minute on today. Explained

0 (13m 10s):
Support

15 (13m 11s):
For today's show comes from Coda, which is looking to bring your workflow into one place. Coda believes that having everything in one place makes sense. Sounds fair. Coda is a cloud-based multi-user document editor that helps place document spreadsheets and a stack of workflow tools all in one place. It could help change how you view information depending on what you need to do with that information. Coda is customizable and connected, meaning there are copyable templates for many types of tasks. Product roadmap, remote onboarding. Okay, R tracking. Okay, meeting notes and more. Plus, Koda adapts to growing teams in changing strategies, allowing you to seamlessly integrate with the tools you need.

15 (13m 52s):
Koda believes that your team deserves a tool that adapts to them and not the other way around. And right now you can get started having your team all working together on the same page for free. You can head over to koda.io/explained, That is koda.io. You can get started for free. koda.io/explained. Today's episode is sponsored by Babble. For most of us second language classes in high school or college did not exactly leave us fluent. I spent nine years living in North Africa and studying Arabic and even today, far from fluent nine years now thanks to babble.

15 (14m 34s):
There's a fun and easy way to learn a new language, whether you're gonna be traveling abroad or connecting with some family or you just have some free time. Babbel teaches bite size language lessons that you can actually use in the real world. Babbel allows you to choose from 14 different languages, including Spanish, French, Italian, and German. Plus Babel's. Speech recognition technology helps you improve your pronunciation and your accent. Accent, oh and your accent. There are so many ways to learn with Babel. On top of lessons you can access podcasts, games, videos, stories, and even live classes. Plus it comes with a 20 day money back guarantee.

15 (15m 13s):
Right now save up to 60% off your subscription when you go to babel.com/explained. That's babel.com/explained for up to 60% off your subscription Babel language for life.

16 (15m 35s):
Our Russian controlled regions in eastern and southern Ukraine say they'll hold referendums on joining Russia this week. Keve is calling the move of Sham. It's also been heavily criticized by the United States

17 (15m 46s):
Today,

1 (15m 46s):
Explained here with Mary e Mary. Tell us more about this referendum that that's being held right now in Russian held territories of Ukraine. What is going on?

4 (15m 57s):
So last Friday, Moscow went ahead with their plans to hold referendums in for occupied territories. That is the Hans parts of those are controlled by the separatists and have been controlled for about eight years since the annexation of Crome and everything that unfolded afterwards. But also was Aian, which before the February 24th invasion were completely under the control of the Ukrainian government.

18 (16m 23s):
Russia is claiming its troops have taken control of one city called Hessan. It's a port city on the Black Sea.

19 (16m 28s):
Ukrainian officials are warning that the situation at the Russian occupied Zia nuclear power station is approaching critical.

17 (16m 36s):
That's where Russia sees Europe's largest nuclear plant in early March. Ukraine says Russia has targeted the parts of the plant that send electricity to Ukraine and is now diverting the power to the Russian grid.

4 (16m 48s):
So Russia's trying to, you know, grab these lands even though it's holding in some places, just bits of land here and there. But the concept is quite ridiculous because they are not even hiding how sham this vote really is because there is no observers, there is immense pressure because those lands are occupied. So there is military there. They said that they're gonna send pretty heavy military presence to ensure peace and stability and sort of security in those areas. But really it is a tactic of intimidation. So there's obviously no hope that they will be fair elections and even if you can call it elections, and even before all these referendums started, most of Western countries have said that they will not recognize them as valid in any way.

20 (17m 36s):
We know that these referenda will be manipulated. We know that Russia will use these sham referenda as a basis to purportedly annex these territories either now or in the future. Let me be clear if this does transpire, the United States will never recognize Russia's claims to any purportedly annexed parts of Ukraine.

1 (17m 59s):
So if Ukraine certainly won't be looking at these elections as legitimate and and the rest of the world won't either, why hold them? Well,

4 (18m 7s):
You know, for Putin this is a, you know, bureaucratic pretense to claim them as their own and say that you know, now he can use tougher, worse weapons that he's been using before, but also it is a way to ratchet up some public support because he needs to claim some wins in this word. And there have not been many. And he has recently finally kind of formed this whole purpose of this operation. He said like we want to liberate those areas because we consider them Russian because they're Russian speaking people. There

9 (18m 40s):
We cannot, we have no moral right to hand over our loved ones to the execution. We cannot fail to respond to their sincere desire to determine their own fate.

4 (18m 50s):
He wants to present it as to the Russian general public. Like look, we've brought these people home. And that's the whole concept that him and and all the Kremlin and and state TV propaganda have been saying like we are bringing Russian people home and we want to unite them all under the Russian motherland.

9 (19m 5s):
I want to point out we know that the majority of the people living in the territories freed from neo-Nazis, these are in the first place historical nova land, do not want to be under the heel of the neo-Nazi regime

8 (19m 18s):
NeoNazis.

4 (19m 20s):
So there're kind of two streams here where public supporters also one that is really, really important.

1 (19m 25s):
How do people in these regions where these referenda are being held see themselves as Russians, as Ukrainians? Both. Are they actually gonna buy into Putin's messaging here?

4 (19m 37s):
Well, from what we know, there was a pretty big propaganda effort in those areas in schools and sort of education facilities for really young children. The broad books that say that Russia is, you know, they're real homeland. The Ukraine is not real country and all these things, but some of this propaganda is really, really blunt and not sophisticated in any way. So I'm not sure that a lot of people are buying into this. They are obviously Russian speaking people in those areas. It's, you know, eastern Ukraine, they're very close to the Russian border and there's a lot of family ties and friendly ties and historic ties that you know, tie this whole territory together. But that, that does not mean that they see themselves as part of silver in Russia.

4 (20m 18s):
They are supporters of Russia in Skai, probably more than in Zia and Heron, although in those areas there were also known people who have collaborated with Russia and sort of joined their side. But a lot of these people were really disenchanted with Russian recent retreat from the area because they, you know, with Russians have promised them that was even unofficial slogan is that Russia is here forever. But that ended really quickly in September when Russia was forced to retreat from a lot of areas Inza and Herky area for example. So Russia is moving ahead with this really, really quickly because they're feeling that they're running out of time and they're losing this some like small bits of trust from people who are still in those areas and are supportive of Russia.

4 (21m 9s):
Hmm And also because they're suffering strategic classes.

1 (21m 11s):
So these elections don't close until Tuesday and I suppose we won't know that Russia won this referendum until Tuesday. But if that is the outcome that we should presume what happens next? What does it mean for the war?

4 (21m 30s):
Probably right? It's the vote is gonna be overwhelmingly supportive of joining Russia. But the fear is that once they do join the Russian Federation officially is sort of in the eyes of Russian law. We've heard that publicly from some of the officials saying that the Russian forces will be reinforcing those areas means like all these reservists will probably go in to hold these territories to try to control these territories more. You know, obviously will publicly claim that they've achieved these remarkable goal of liberating all those areas even though they don't really fully control all of these regions fully on the ground. But most importantly for the war and specifically for Ukraine, Ukrainian goal and Lansky's goal has for a long time been to bring the borders back to what they wore before the invasion before February 24th.

4 (22m 19s):
And

22 (22m 19s):
We have no choice but to defend ourselves. We do it, we push the aggressor beyond the internationally recognized border of the Ukraine state.

4 (22m 31s):
They have obviously been more inspired and more motivated after they had some really remarkable wins and gains in recent weeks and months. They are really hopeful that West will supply them with more weapons, with some heavier weapons that will allow them to continue their offensive operations and some of these occupied areas.

22 (22m 50s):
For us, this is war for life. That is why we need defense support, weapons, military equipment and shelves.

4 (22m 60s):
All in all, I've been noticing two main avenues of thought, whether Putin is trying to step everything up to potentially go in negotiations at some point and have like a upper hand to try to, you know, get more than he would've initially gained if he didn't call for mobilization, if he didn't, you know, take all these next land and so and so forth or he completely lost the plot and just wants to nuke, take the land and you know, try to gain as much ukranian land as possible. He doesn't care about losses, deaths or any strategic goals anymore cuz he just wants to get this done.

1 (23m 34s):
So option one, he wants to threaten a massive escalation and the possibility of killing hundreds of thousands if not millions of Ukrainians as a bargaining chip. Option two, he actually wants to do it. This happened on Wednesday as the UN general assembly was meeting in New York City as President Biden was speaking at the un.

11 (23m 56s):
We will stand in solidarity with Ukraine. We will stand solidarity against Russia's aggression. Period.

1 (24m 4s):
How is the world responding? Is, is everyone just gonna lie down and let this happen? We did an episode last week about the security council's abject failures here, but is anyone else gonna get in his way?

4 (24m 16s):
Well the ball is very much in the western court I would say because they have to come up with strategy and a really forceful response if they want to deter flat rep Putin. But what that actually gonna look like is a big question because at first they hope that the sanctions would cripple Russia to, you know, a point of, of a halt that the economy is gonna become absolutely defunct and that it's not gonna be able to hold this war effort. This

11 (24m 43s):
Is gonna impose severe cost on the Russian economy. Both immediately and over time. We have purposefully designed these sanctions to maximize the long term impact on Russia and to minimize the impact on the United States and our allies.

4 (24m 58s):
But that actually did not happen because war is going on and Russian economy is not in shambles. Says Biden has said in in February, he said it's going to target and destroy Russian economy. It's not necessarily true. There are some issues that are gonna be really long lasting, something that is really hurting Russian economy but that didn't stop the war and Russia still sells its gas and oil internationally and it gets massive revenue that helps it lead this effort. So what actually is up their sleeve, for example, I don't exactly know what they can use to threaten Putin

1 (25m 34s):
And he seems to know that.

4 (25m 36s):
I guess he knows that Because you know, especially with the energy supplies, there's been, you know, just to paint you picture of the mockery that's been going on about the whole Europe buying gas from Russia or if they choose not to do that and sort of freeze this winter, there's a live feat that shows turned on gas stove and it says the price I think's like 1 44 euro a month that that person pays for this gas, which is like a hundred times less than a European person will probably pay this winter. So they're definitely mocking people and they're betting that they will have the upper hand at the end.

1 (26m 20s):
Mary Sna, she writes about Russia for the Washington Post. Our show was produced by Jillian Weinberger with help from Amanda Luellen. It was edited by Matthew Colette, fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed and mastered by Paul Robert Mosey will be talking more about the looming energy crisis in Europe later this week. On today. Explained.