2 (12s):
It wouldn't be a u.s. Election without some interference from Russia this time around. It. Looks like they're spreading the love to both sides of the ticket. Alex ward has been following the story for Vox the story starts on February 13th. That's what intelligence officials decided to brief house lawmakers to tell them that Russia was interfering in the 2020 campaign and that their preference might be believe it or not. The President Donald Trump now the person who gave the briefing is someone names Pearson an aide to the Director of National Intelligence Joseph McGuire and I should mention that when I spoke to a democratic lawmaker who was in Pearson's briefing this lawmaker told me that the evidence that at least the Russians had a preference for Trump was quote-unquote.

2 (58s):
Very compelling. Now what that means is similar to what happened in around 2016, which was when Russian hackers were trying to use social media tools Facebook Twitter Etc to influence the election in Trump's favor by so owing racial divisions by throwing anti Hillary Clinton rallies, etcetera. So using very likely similar methods to help Trump defeat whoever the Democratic Contender will be in 2020 which brings us to another part of Pearson's briefing which is she says the Russians are also trying to help out the campaign to the Democratic FrontRunner Senator Bernie Sanders. Well, we like it was not clear what role they're gonna play we were told that Russia may be other countries are going to get involved in this campaign.

2 (1m 42s):
And look here's the message to Russia stay out of American

1 (1m 46s):
elections. So

2 (1m 47s):
it's worth noting that Trump was not aware of this briefing. In fact, he learned about it from Republicans who are inside and we're hearing the intelligence. And by the way, Republicans expectedly were just bashing the intelligence Community for basically claiming that they were trying to go after Trump and that this was a partisan analysis either way it inspired Republicans to let Trump know about this. Briefing and Trump goes off one senior Administration official told CBS News the president quote blew his stack when he learned that the house committee including top Democrats had been briefed. He's upset that one. He didn't know that this was happening to that.

2 (2m 28s):
He had to learn about it from congressional allies and not from the intelligence Community himself, which you know, the intelligent Community is there to brief and prepare the president. Nobody said it to be at all. Nobody freak see about that at all. And so Trump was right to be a little bit upset about that and he summons Joseph McGuire the Director of National Intelligence to his office and dresses him down for doing this briefing Without Really letting the White House know so last week in fact Friday. We learned that Joseph McGuire has formally resigned from the US government right after Trump basically said get out your fire on Friday actually asked a senior White House official if Trump had really McGuire gone because of this Russia briefing and this official did not mince words what the officials said was quote-unquote.

2 (3m 17s):
That's absolutely why anyone from here on out that opposes. The president will get fired and when I went wait that bad the official responded. Yep. He's not fucking around. So who does Trump turn to at a moment when he perceives the intelligence leadership to be disloyal he turns to a staunch allies. Um one who has defended him time and time and time again on social media in print interviews in TV interviews Etc. The guy named Richard Grinnell who happens to be the American ambassador to Germany watching him up close as the master negotiator today for me just really solidified why I early on wanted to support President Trump and what the president decides and announces on Twitter is that Grinnell will be the acting Director of National Intelligence until he can find One else to take the job

1 (4m 12s):
permanently. In fact, we're talking to five different people right now. I think all people that you know all people that you respect and I'll make a decision probably over the next week to two weeks. We have some very good people.

2 (4m 24s):
So not only does it when L come in but he starts Clearing House last Friday. We learned that a guy named Andrew Holman who was the second ranking official at the Director of National Intelligence decided to leave and Report start showing that Grinnell and other people in the White House. We are looking for disloyal people to the president quote unquote and want them gone now Grinnell can't stay in there forever. He is capped as the acting director, but he can be there enough time a couple of weeks to start effectively purging those that the president wants gone. And if you're wondering what it looks like when a president doesn't like being told the truth when in fact a president is upset about what it might say about his presidency or what.

2 (5m 10s):
As about his own beliefs. This is what you get you get an intelligence Community fearful of a president if you're full of briefing Congress and then having years-long experts completely taken out of our intelligence Community, which arguably makes the nation left safe. I should note that over the weekend CNN reported that our general understanding of that intelligence briefing and what the actual intelligence says might be a bit mistaken. Basically what they learned is that the intelligence says that the Russians feel they can work with Trump in effect make deals with him down the line on issues that Royal the u.s.

2 (5m 52s):
Russian relationship that Moscow would have a better working relationship with Washington. If Trump were in the White House all it really says is that between a Republican candidate and a Democratic candidate at the moment Moscow likely assesses that the Republican Trump could be a better partner to work with down the line. So it Alex is a little confusing do we have intelligence that says Russia is interfering with the 2020 presidential election to help President Trump and help Bernie Sanders or do we have intelligence that says

1 (6m 23s):
Russia wouldn't mind Trump winning because clearly Trump is a fan of Vladimir

2 (6m 27s):
Putin. We do have intelligence that Russia. Is interfering in the 2020 election and what it seems to show at the moment is that the Russians are friendly to a trump presidency and friendly to a Sanders presidency, but we still do not have really any clear concrete public evidence that the Russians through their actions want Trump and office or Sanders in office, but we can assume if they're

1 (6m 47s):
friendly to a trump presidency or a Sanders

2 (6m 51s):
presidency that they're going to be interfering to those

1 (6m 53s):
ends

2 (6m 55s):
one could make that case and that's definitely something intelligence officials are going to look at. And the other thing could be of course that it would so divisions right between the left and the right and the Russians would be exploiting the political polarization that exist in the United States. The other reason is to undermine the Democratic process. If you're getting people questioning the result of votes maybe for a Republican or voting for a Democrat then the entire voting structure the entire legitimacy of the system gets questioned. And so this is a pretty low cost way for the Russians to to Really harm the United States by hitting it the core of what it means to continue the American Democratic experiment.

2 (7m 39s):
My takeaway from this whole situation

1 (7m 41s):
though

2 (7m 42s):
is that Trump is actually attacking the American intelligence community at the exact same time. The Russians are attacking the American vote and this will make it harder for the United States to combat the Russians as they interfere in our

1 (7m 54s):
election. More with Alex in a minute. I'm Shawn Rama's firm. This is today explained.

2 (8m 22s):
Hello, this is Jesse David Fox. I'm a senior editor at vulture and I host the podcast good one a podcast about jokes. It's a podcast about well jokes every week. I sit down with a comedian comedy writer or director. We list a one of their jokes and figure out how it all came together.

1 (8m 37s):
I don't sit down with a pen in the pad and physically write down everything. I just that's not my

2 (8m 43s):
style turns out comedians take jokes pretty seriously. I like all Okay, that's what I do. That's what I live for this really nothing else. I care about it's all very

1 (8m 55s):
revealing. What did you sort of learn from this? What was your

2 (8m 58s):
takeaway? All right. Nothing guy. I'm not I'm not a smart

1 (9m 2s):
person good one from vulture and the Box media

2 (9m 5s):
podcast Network subscribe for free on Apple podcasts or on your favorite podcast app. You do not use the Pod casts a parade. Oh, what a great question Jesse David Fox. Hi, I'm Ariel Jim Ross. And I'm the host of a podcast called reset reset is a podcast about the impact of technology how humans have shaped it and how technology reflects our values and biases reset is also a podcast about how much good Tech has accomplished and how much better it could be if we listen to each other recently we've covered stories about how artificial intelligence is being used to track coronavirus. We've also covered how to solve the problem of child Predators on gaming sites and why our night sky might Be filled with thousands of new satellites subscribe to reset for free on Apple podcasts Spotify or in your favorite podcast app later nerds.

2 (10m 5s):
Alex how bad has the president's relationship with his own intelligence Community become. Oh, it's gotten really really bad. You might remember that really early on like he equated the intelligence Community to Nazis, which was not a good way to start.

1 (10m 21s):
I think it was a disgraceful disgraceful that the intelligence agencies allowed any information that turned out to be so false and fake out and that's something that Nazi Germany would have done and It

2 (10m 35s):
do and it's really only gotten worse over time every morning. The president is supposed to read his presidential Daily Brief. And as far as I know from talking to sources and just even seeing the White House's own schedule. The president doesn't get it every day. And in fact, it's been boiled down to the point that Trump just wants like bullet points and pictures on a couple of pages as opposed to the long lengthy briefing that a president should have to begin his or her day and what we're seeing at the moment is now that Trump is then Unshackled from the impeachment drama and all that. He's now going after an intelligence community that he feels has been going after him his entire presidency and its really culminated in this moment when he our intelligence officials trying to brief lawmakers write their customers the people they serve to give them the notification and the information they need to do their jobs.

2 (11m 28s):
Here's Trump attacking them because it goes against the narrative that he likes he wants to be able to say I won the election by Self and I didn't need Russia's help but instead of working with intelligence officials and law enforcement officials and whoever else in government to safeguard the 2020 election process. He's going after our intelligence Community for just speaking truth to power give us a sense of what might be at risk here Beyond The 20/20 election. What does President Trump see as our biggest threats? And what does the intelligence Community see as our biggest threats? Well, I can give you a great example from what happened last year. Top intelligence officials spoke at an annual public event, which is the release of the worldwide threats assessment report.

2 (12m 11s):
It's a Swanky way of saying here's what the intelligence Community is tracking. Here's what might be bothering the United States down the line and they put out Five Points one. Isis still has thousands of fighters in Syria and

1 (12m 23s):
Iraq. The group has returned to its guerrilla warfare Roots while continuing to plot attacks and directed supporters worldwide

2 (12m 31s):
to North Korea is unlikely to give up its nuclear

1 (12m 34s):
program. We currently Italy assess that North Korea will seek to retain its wmd capabilities and is unlikely to completely give up its nuclear weapons and production capabilities because its leaders ultimately view nuclear weapons as critical to regime

2 (12m 51s):
survival 3 Russia will continue to meddle in the 2020

1 (12m 55s):
elections. We expect Russia will continue to wage its information war against democracies and to use social media to attempt to divide our societies

2 (13m 4s):
for for the US will actually be contending with the problems of climate change for years to come and five. Iran is not moving to gain a nuclear weapon at the moment.

1 (13m 16s):
And while we do not believe Iran is currently undertaking activities. We judge necessary to produce the nuclear device Iranian officials have publicly threatened to push the boundaries of jackpoet restrictions. If Iran does not gain the tangible Financial benefits as expected from the deal

2 (13m 33s):
now all five of those things. The intelligence Community believes and assesses could be wrong. But that's the general consensus of our Professionals in government. The funny thing is Trump disagrees with all of those things. He believed that Isis is basically defeated in gone that he had pacified North Korea and that they weren't making strides in the nuclear program that Russia was not going to meddle and if they did would not be preferring Trump that climate change is a hoax and that Iran was on the way to a nuclear weapon and that's why he withdrew America from the Iran nuclear deal and reimpose sanctions this led to a big fight to the point that Trump asked top intelligence officials to the Oval Office to basically kind of say, oh, mr.

2 (14m 20s):
President were totally in alignment with you. We didn't we weren't really saying that we disagree but come on like that's clearly what happened. It wasn't like, you know top intelligence officials were pointing the finger Trump, but implicitly they were because of where Trump stands Are and what we learned in 2019 is that Trump's foreign policy views are just not based in reality and I mentioned all this because this year in 2020. They are not going to give that public assessment again because they're worried about angering Trump. And so the public loses important information people inside the government will still have that intelligence, but it goes to show that the White House is so scared our agents.

2 (15m 1s):
They won't even do a public event about our

1 (15m 3s):
intelligence anymore.

2 (15m 9s):
Have you spoken to intelligence agents? Have you have you heard how they feel about the president about the administration do they feel like they're at war with their own executive only a small few because of course, they're all scared to talk and I've talked to a lot of formers and yeah, they wouldn't say there's a war going on but this is a really really tense moment. It is one where they do feel a bit under siege and believe that Trump is making it harder for them to do their jobs. And in fact somewhat making their job. Obsolete because if Trump believes one thing and our nation's intelligence apparatus believes another then there's really no reconciliation and Trump is unwilling to at least have his mind changed or at least start to engage with intelligence Community as look sometimes intelligence gets it wrong and a president's gut can sometimes be more right than you know, what all of the information brings up, but Trump is not willing even to have that kind of conversation.

2 (16m 3s):
And so the way I think about it is, you know, if the United States were a car or a bus right? We're all In it and Trump is driving and he's doesn't have a GPS. He has no idea where he's going. He is driving blind and one way he would actually get directions to help America go where it needs to go is if he got the map if you got the intelligence, he's not looking at the map. He's not looking at the GPS. He's just driving Full Speed Ahead and frankly blindfolded and we've all got a hope we get to where we need to go. I think we've known from the jump that President Trump isn't terribly interested in Reading long intelligence briefings and paying attention to the details, but are there other People he's currently surrounded by who might be saving him fewer and fewer people.

2 (16m 44s):
So at the beginning there were some folks who would at least challenge the president's views whether or not you liked who was challenging him John Bolton a national security advisor way more. Hawkish than Donald Trump HR McMaster before John Bolton at least tried to walk Trump through kind of every decision he had to make and that's why Trump wanted him gone because he was too prophets Oriole Rex Tillerson the former. Secretary of State Jim Mattis, the former Secretary of Defense to guys had believed in traditional American foreign policy who Trump ended up fighting against and pushing out. There are fewer and fewer people. Now who want to kind of push back on the president? No one is going to tell Trump. Hey, you have this wrong or at least think of it this way.

2 (17m 27s):
But in the meantime, there's a presidential election hanging in the balance. What does it mean that Donald Trump is openly according to the official use spoke to and based on his actions with acting And I Joseph McGwire last week getting rid of people who are trying to present impartial evidence and

1 (17m 46s):
installing a bunch of flunkies. I

2 (17m 47s):
mean if there is strong interference in our election from Russia,

1 (17m 53s):
are we going to find out about it? And this environment

2 (17m 56s):
look before Trump took out McGwire and even took out Dan Coates who was previously the Director of National Intelligence. It was clear that are you know, National Security apparatus was saying, you know, the light is blinking red. The Russians are interfering. Fearing and they're doing this and also I should say that like the Chinese and the Iranians and the North Koreans are in their own way interfering. So it's not just Russia it I think it's clear already. We know this now we knew before the Russians are interfering to what extent what they exactly want. What exactly they're doing. Well, you might not get that at the moment. We might not get that down the line because the present either doesn't believe the intelligence or doesn't want to believe the intelligence and is putting in people that are more loyal to him than the truth.

2 (18m 41s):
And what the intelligence Community is really missing in this era is leadership all the top people are either out or on their way out take Trump's first Director of National Intelligence Dan coats. He was forced out partly for that worldwide assessment that we talked about he gave that prefect Sue Gordon who was his Deputy a long time person in the intelligence Community who many thought might actually rise to the top. She was basically pushed out because she adhered more to what the intelligence said than what Trump. Good to hear McGuire same kind of thing now Andrew Holman who was McGuire's number two last week, you know he resigned now there has always been frustrations with the intelligence community and the executive. I mean, you know, sometimes president's want certain information brought up to the for Bush Administration basically said like give me the case that Iraq has weapons of mass destruction, but more often than not the intelligence Community is a political and just continues go.

2 (19m 34s):
Okay. I may disagree with this white house, but I'm going to give them the best information they have to do their job.

1 (19m 39s):
People

2 (19m 40s):
leaving now are basically saying I can't even do that basic part. The customer the president doesn't even want this information. So what the hell am I doing in this

1 (19m 48s):
job? Alex board is one of the hosts of the worldly podcast from box. I'm Shawn ramas from this is today explained.