1 (2s):
The us state department is telling Americans to get out of Ukraine. It's a big week there. The country's independence day is on Wednesday, but Ukraine has canceled all celebrations. It's also the six month anniversary of the start of the war. Ukraine's president Volodymyr. Zelensky issued a warning in his weekly address that quote, this week, Russia might try to do something particularly nasty, particularly cruel pressure has been building after a mysterious targeted murder on a highway last weekend, a 29 year old woman killed in a car bombing, not in Ukraine where all the violence of this war has occurred. But outside of Moscow, in a nice area, even she wasn't a household name in Russia yet, but the murder of Daria <inaudible> and the revenge that many people believe will accompany.

1 (50s):
It could signal the opening of a new and scarier front in Russia's war. Next on today, explained

Citi (60s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action that together cities committed $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, health care, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach a zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at citi.com/e S G

1 (1m 50s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. Andrew Roth is Moscow correspondent for the guardian. He's been following the apparent assassination of Daria duke and a closely Andrew, tell us what you know.

3 (2m 1s):
So Tanya duke, Anna was leaving a festival on Saturday evening, and as she drove away from this kind of big sort of right-wing political festival, she was driving on her way back to Moscow. When all of a sudden her car exploded, it was a sort of massive explosion that tore through the car and she was killed at the scene of the explosion.

4 (2m 25s):
Russian authorities say she was likely murdered a bomb placed under her seat. The question is why

3 (2m 31s):
So Daria duke Ana is first of all, a political commentator. This is the person who would go on television and she was pretty conservative in what she said. And, and in Rosa right now, that means that she was fairly pro war, meaning the war against Ukraine,

5 (2m 47s):
Russian state televisions, tribute to Daria <inaudible> killed in a car bomb on Saturday night, a signal to us, all the presenter says she died for her views. She died for the idea of the Russian

6 (2m 58s):
World, Dasha Dugan.

3 (3m 2s):
She'd been very outspoken about our opposition to the government in Kiev and her support, basically for the Kremlin fighting and Ukraine.

4 (3m 12s):
He says, people in the west are living in a dream and they need to be nourished by this war.

3 (3m 18s):
But the other thing that makes her important is who her father is. Alexander Dugan is probably one of the better known political thinkers pundits in Russia. And he's best known as an extremely conservative. Some would call him fascist thinker on, on the Russian far, right

7 (3m 39s):
To people in the know Alexander Dugan, a philosopher and Russian public intellectual matters because he says what Putin thinks

3 (3m 47s):
Alexandra duke. And that's known for this idea of Neo Eurasianism, which I guess you could call a version of Russian exceptionalism. This was a person who was fanatical at times. He was viewed almost as a kind of huckster, a person who could always be relied on to come out with an ultra nationalist point of view about any conflict. So this is the person who was born into a military family, but kind of came into his own in the eighties when there were anticommunist movements coming out and this United a bunch of different people. And by the 1990s, Dougan along with another writer who was well known in Russia, it was the moment of founded a movement that basically United far left and far right ideologies

8 (4m 31s):
Russia's disparate opposition has been left to unite under the umbrella of the other Russia, an organization, and includes a wide array of political opinion in the country.

3 (4m 43s):
It was a kind of communist fascist movement that was violent in its ideology, opposed to the kind of liberalism under Yeltsin and supported a kind of much harder, different version of Russia. That was much more aggressive, particularly in places like Ukraine, which they saw as sort of an inexorable part of Russia, a part of Russia that should remain it's around this time in the, in the late 1990s, that Dougan publishes was probably his best known book.

9 (5m 12s):
So in 1997, you wrote a book called foundations of geopolitics. And in it, you talked about how Russia should return to being a global superpower.

3 (5m 24s):
I mean, this is really where he lays out these ideas of why Russia is different. Why there's this kind of clash of civilizations with the west and why Russia shouldn't really turn away from that idea, but it has to embrace its Russian newness. Let's say this idea of empire,

10 (5m 39s):
I all was believed and I believe, and the future greatness of Russia, because Russia was always, and to try to be a super power

3 (5m 53s):
In some places, there are reports that this text is being used either in the military or in certain police groups, basically amongst what you might call syllabi key in Russia, people involved in the security state who have more nostalgia, I think for the strong Soviet union and wanted to see some sort of strong Russia arise in its place. So Dougan is out here with these very radical and very strong ideas already in the 1990s. But I don't think it's totally correct to say that he and letting her Putin see eye to eye in terms of most ideas of what Russia should become or in those sort of rise of what we would call Putinism, you know, for Putin, especially in the first decade at the time that he was in power, his control was really rooted.

3 (6m 44s):
First of all, to a kind of social contract with the public where he ensured stability by fighting against the oligarchy that had grown in the 1990s against the kind of massive wealth inequality that had taken place. And in response, Russians who get to enjoy Western comforts, we kind of just leave politics to him and they would kind of step away from the political realm. So in many ways, Dukin, doesn't fit in there. The moment that duke and becomes more important really comes in 2014. When all of a sudden these views about clash of civilization really come to a head because this is the moment when Russia annexes Crimea

11 (7m 27s):
Us defense officials are keeping a very close watch on Eastern Ukraine denied as thousands of Russian troops gather on the border to quote one defense official. It's like, they're on a hair trigger.

3 (7m 39s):
You know, you can divide Putin's time and power into Korean post Crimea because it's such an important shift for the country. It's no longer about trading prosperity for political control. It's about, re-embracing an idea of empire and re-embracing maybe some of these ideas that duke and thought were so important as time goes on. Dougan trades on this. You know, he really wants to portray himself as somebody who is incredibly powerful, incredibly influential, but I wouldn't say the Duggins influenced always been kind of disputed. Is it because of him that these ideas started to take root in the Kremlin? We don't really think so. You know, Dubin has no photographs with Putin or they never been seen together.

3 (8m 20s):
And duke is, is a bit of a huckster. You know, if we look at Trump world, he might remind you of someone like a Sebastian Gorka, a person who claims to have, you know, power and influence and access, but maybe it's just somebody who is effective at claiming that he knew what was going to happen next of catching on to trends and kind of picking up on them quite effectively. So even though Dougan had kind of come into the right moment, he almost overplayed his hand a little bit. He came out with some very inflammatory comments saying that he wants to see Russians kill, kill, kill Ukrainians.

12 (8m 55s):
It will be what you bullshit. You don't get me those moments <inaudible>.

3 (8m 60s):
And it was so inflammatory that he ended up losing his job at Moscow state university, where he held a position at that point. So since then, he's a person who has been on the fringes of the political power. He's somebody who seems to have captured something about the mood of the directions that Russia is moving in, but it's somebody who has always been held at arms length. And I would say, who remains kind of on the fringes of power in Russia, he's more of a curiosity than somebody who is really running the country

1 (9m 31s):
When Russia invaded Ukraine and took this very aggressive action. Do you think Alexander Dugin was somewhere in the back of, or in the front of Vladimir Putin's mind?

3 (9m 42s):
I think almost certainly not. I don't think that Dougan was directly influencing Putin at that point, but these ideas about conflict, these ideas that the Ukrainian state doesn't exist, those have been growing quite quickly in terms of popularity in the Kremlin and elsewhere, particularly from 20 20, 20, 21. And right up to the war in 2022

1 (10m 4s):
Is Alexander Dugin known to Western officials, is this man on the radar of the United States or the UK?

3 (10m 11s):
Yeah. The funny thing about Alexander Dougan is he's probably better known to Western officials than he is known to most Russians. Oh, this is a person who is very much a self promoter. I can tell you that he has been very popular as an interview subject in the last 10 years. And that he was so popular that he was telling journalists he wanted 500 year old to be interviewed at a certain point after 2014 and 2015. So you get the kind of idea of what kind of person this was.

1 (10m 39s):
What has Alexander Dugin been saying and doing since Russia invaded Ukraine, is he taking credit?

3 (10m 45s):
He has to a certain degree. Yeah. This is the person who says that he kind of forced all the conflict before it happened, but keep in mind that this is not a person who most people are seeing on Russian television, because he was still somewhat a fringe guest, even for the kind of mainstream political pundits that you would see on TV.

1 (11m 3s):
Would you have seen his daughter Daria?

3 (11m 5s):
You would have seen his daughter daughter. Yeah. And I think that's one of the key differences between them Daria to a certain degree, managed to take on a lot of the politics that her dad promoted, you know, those kind of Russian exceptionalism, especially from a kind of philosophical point of view, she presented herself as a deep thinker, but one who came to the same conclusions about, you know, the war being correct about Ukrainians and the west being an asylum based state where some of the things that she said Daria was a slicker version. You could say of her father less well-known of course, but somebody who was kind of carrying on the family tradition, it's something she would say is that you had the kind of same views as her father and was carrying on that tradition as well.

3 (11m 47s):
You know, you could compare it to pat and his daughter and Francis the idea of this kind of single political idea, but it's just a different packaging for it. And, you know, right up until her death was having these kinds of parents as on Russian television where she was saying pretty inflammatory stuff.

1 (12m 6s):
There's a lot of speculation in the news that the target of this car bombing was her father Alexander Dukin. Who do you think was the target?

3 (12m 17s):
My first reaction when I heard about the car bombing was that this must have been meant for him and that it was a mistake. He's an unusual target. You know, if we think that this was done because of the war or in some way, tied to the war, there are much more influential people and people who are much more closely involved in the planning for the war, people have fought in Ukraine, but he's somebody that could make sense as a target for revenge or retribution, especially because he's, well-known in the west. The daughter also, you know, essentially was involved in politics. It was seen, I think still as a kind of a political assassination or some kind of assassination that it hit somebody who supported the war, but there isn't a real sense of, you know, why she would be targeted instead of him.

1 (13m 6s):
My first assumption was that Daria Dougan, his murder would be a huge slap in the face to Putin. The Kremlin released a condolence letter addressed to Dougan and his wife calling this a vial cruel crime. It seemed at first like this was the daughter of Putin's ally, a man that he cares deeply about, but you've painted a different picture of the relationship between Putin and duke. And is it possible that Vladimir Putin doesn't really care about this murder?

3 (13m 33s):
I can't speak for Putin because I can't be inside his mind, but I do think that even calling him a kind of close ally would be an exaggeration, but there is certainly a world where for Putin, this is just part of the cost of the war that's taking place. There was always an expectation that Russia would have to sacrifice some things in order to achieve this greater aim of subjugating Ukraine of pushing back, you know, Western influence. And after six months, this is the kind of first let's say political attack. If this is tied to the war, that's taking place in Moscow. And I think that to him, it could very much be just the cost of doing business

1 (14m 22s):
Coming up. Will it increase that cost of doing business on Putin's turf, the murder of Daria Dougan it may mean this war has finally come to Russia,

Citi (14m 36s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology, that money will help provide access to essential services like education, health care, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the U S but that's just a start. Having ambitious goals is what helps the world to make meaningful progress. And it's going to take all of us working together to make sure we continue to move in the right direction because to address these worldwide problems, it's going to take worldwide action. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at citi.com/e S G.

13 (15m 39s):
What did dinosaurs sound like? Here's Jurassic parks tape that roar was mostly made up of mammal sounds, but dinosaurs were a lot closer to huge bird. And instead of a roar, they might've had more of a punk.

14 (15m 58s):
It's a honk, but it's like a tuba honk.

13 (16m 0s):
The biggest deepest weirdest honk you can imagine

14 (16m 4s):
Get to tubas and having them play two different notes, and then they could rumble. And while your body is still shaking from the rumble, they could blast you with two very low notes. You could get real interesting

13 (16m 29s):
This weekend. Unexplainable, is it possible to figure out what dinosaurs actually sounded like scientists are giving it their best shot, new episodes, every Wednesday, follow unexplainable, wherever you listen.

1 (16m 49s):
It's today explained at a Memorial service for his daughter, Alexander Dugin said she would want Russians to fight. She died for Russia on the front line. He says, and that frontline is here. And that notion that the war is now in Russia, Andrew Roth of the guardian, that's a shift lay out for me how this began and where it might be going.

3 (17m 13s):
So Alexander Dougan and his daughter, they left this festival, which is called <inaudible> or tradition, maybe about five minutes apart. And so he would have been driving down the same highway, also going back toward Moscow when the bunk ripped through her car and when she was killed. So what we know is that after that took place at Dubin, turned around and somehow had heard about what had happened and went back to the site where the car had blown up, where it could call them fire and kind of crashed into a fence close by. And there's some video that was shared or to leaked of him, kind of standing there, holding his head, looking at this car where his daughter had just been driving that had just blown up fairly wrong.

3 (18m 0s):
You know, it, it happened just right after the moment when the attack took place. The images have been shared a lot, especially on, on the internet, on social media, because tensions are very raw. This is a person who was very strongly disliked in Ukraine for the things that he had talked about, you know, violence being necessary. And there wasn't much sympathy for him, I think. And that's kind of driving a reaction in Russia among the elites who knew him as well, who have been very strongly demanding, a kind of backlash or response to that. And he came out with a statement that I would say was fairly hard line pro war, and kind of exactly what we would expect. You can just say, this is something that was put out in written form, but he said that, you know, it wouldn't be enough to demand retribution for her death.

3 (18m 48s):
What we really need is victory. He means victory in the war, over Ukraine, and that he gave up his daughter essentially as part of his contribution to the war that's taking place. So very little in terms of changing any kind of political view or any view on what had happened. I mean, this was a very kind of hard line. Stay the course statement for a person who just lost his daughter in this attack,

1 (19m 11s):
Who is Russia saying is responsible for her death.

3 (19m 15s):
So the Russians have come out and said that they think Ukraine is behind the attack. It's not much of a surprise. That was kind of where this was all going, that they claimed that a Ukrainian woman traveled with her say 12 year old daughter in a mini Cooper, crossed the border into Russia, moved into the apartment where Daria do going to live, surveilled. Her, went to the festival, planted the bomb, you know, and then after the attack that they took the same mini Cooper switched the license plates and drove out of the country and are now hiding in Estonia.

3 (19m 57s):
So that version is a mouthful and it naturally has a lot of people, you know, asking questions, you know, they have put out video of her, this woman crossing the border, coming into Russia and then leaving Russia and apparently entering a house that they say is the same one that duke Anna lived in. But, you know, it's pretty far from any kind of concrete proof that she was involved in. The attack. Ukraine has denied the attack and in general, Ukraine denies cross border attacks against Russia and says that, you know, it only speaks about attacks that basically take place in Ukraine and fighting that takes place in Ukraine, but it has been a very strong denial on this case. And everybody who supposedly knows this woman, or as involved as also so far denied that she has any kind of connection to the attack.

3 (20m 44s):
So in this case, the FSB, which is the Russian security services, we understand why they're accusing Ukraine of this attack, but it is a little bit difficult to take their accusations at face value. You know, we, we obviously need more evidence to understand what happened and it kind of remains unclear. There are a lot of other theories about what could have taken place in the attack. One that the Ukrainians have discussed is the idea that it's what some called a false flag, the idea of a conspiracy where the bomb was planted in order to generate a reason to either escalate the war or launch a political crackdown at home. Right? So it's the idea that Russia itself, you know, launched the attack.

3 (21m 27s):
And then there were a bunch of other ideas too, about what could have happened. But first of all, it's difficult to really find evidence for any of them. And second of all, some of the other theories probably aren't going to influence what happens going forward to me, the key is that Russia came out with these accusations. They went public with them and to a certain degree that indicates that Russia is going to launch some kind of response to what's happened

4 (21m 52s):
And Ukraine tonight, fears of retaliation in a country already on high alert as Ukraine prepares to mark six months of war on Wednesday coinciding with its day of independence, ships will still go president Zelensky warning. Russia may be planning something particularly cruel to ruin the occasion. Ukraine's second largest city will impose a round the clock curfew on a bittersweet independence day.

1 (22m 17s):
Okay. And then there's reporting that a former member of Russia's parliament, a man who is on the outs with Vladimir Putin is claiming that a Russian resistance exists and that resistance has taken responsibility. Can you tell me about that claim and whether you are convinced at all by it

3 (22m 36s):
It's a pretty extraordinary claim. It would be an incredible moment and incredibly politically important. If there was a kind of armed resistance inside of Russia right now that was, you know, physically now taking steps to try to attack the government, stop the war. I think a lot of people were very surprised to see the claims that were being made because there just hasn't been much evidence so far of a kind of real armed resistance inside of Russia. So, you know, in many ways, all we can do is take the remarks at face value, but it seems like officials in Kiev and officials and Russia both have kind of rejected that claim so far.

1 (23m 17s):
Do you think this could be a turning point in how the war is fought in any sense?

3 (23m 22s):
You know, the Russians who are speaking out most loudly about this attack are saying is that they want to see retribution and that they want to see Russia really start to target government buildings and key of government officials. They want to see targeted killings. And while those have to a certain degree taken place so far, you know, we still see missile attacks against Ukrainian cities. It's clear that it could probably be stepped up and we could see something that looks much more like urban fighting, both in Ukrainian cities, but also in Russia as well. This is something that could become a danger for a place like Moscow St. Petersburg, where the rational leader.

3 (24m 3s):
And it would be the first time when for a lot of Russians, the war really starts to come home and Moscow, one thing that's so surprising years, the fact that you could feel like there's really no war taking place at all. People go on with their daily lives. You see some symbols that are, you know, related to the war. Mostly pre-war symbols, like big Zs, you know, public transport. But to be honest, otherwise you don't really see much of, much of the war at all here. And if they start to be bombings shootings and things like that, I think that it really becomes unavoidable and impossible to ignore one place where we've seen that is Crimea, where somehow, you know, people were still going on vacation, nothing was taking place as though there was no war taking place in Ukraine, just dozens of miles away.

3 (24m 51s):
And it was only when ammunition dumps started blowing up there. And that, you know, people started getting a little bit spooked and realizing, oh, wait a minute. Maybe, maybe we shouldn't be on vacation here right now. So I think that's a real goal for the Ukrainian side, if, if this was then behind that. And I do think that that's a huge concern for Russia as well.

1 (25m 15s):
So months into Russia's invasion of Ukraine, this war could now be coming to Russia.

3 (25m 20s):
Exactly. And it not just to Russia, but to ordinary Russians, you know, and to people who live in some of the country's biggest cities, I think that's the fear. And also the whole concern around the bombing is not just about what was in this individual family, but also about what it represents fear terror. The Russians would argue. That's what could worry incredibly in the most.

1 (25m 45s):
Andrew Roth he's the Moscow correspondent for the guardian today's show was produced by Avishai artsy with an assist from Halima Shaw on a Sunday, no less. It was fact-checked by Laura Bullard with help from toy Dominguez. It was engineered by Paul Robert McKinsey almond L Saudi edited the show I'm Noel king it's today explained.