0 (0s):
Ten nine, eight, seven, six coming up on main engine start

1 (7s):
23 years ago. The first module of the international space station launched into orbit

0 (12s):
Just off of a proton rocket and the Zaria control module. The international space station is underway.

1 (17s):
It was the start of an era in which the U S and Russia would cooperate their citizens, living, working, even eating together a board, the shared station. But now that relationship is fracturing

2 (28s):
Space. Travel is probably the greatest form of collaboration between the U S and Russia.

1 (34s):
Loren Grush is a senior reporter at the verge.

2 (37s):
And right now that feels like it might be in jeopardy

1 (45s):
I'm Noel king coming up on today explained how Bladimir Putin's war in Ukraine has reached the final frontier

4 (59s):
Support for the show. Today comes from financial times. Here's the thing about the financial times that you might not know, it covers a lot more than just business and finance. If you want to go beyond the headlines on essential subjects like technology, politics, climate change, and yes, finance and business, then you're going to love the financial times, especially because using our link Ft com slash today explained we'll get you 50% off an annual digital subscription head over there today to read carefully selected articles and grabbed your discount, knowledge and great journalism awaits F t.com/today explained

1 (1m 41s):
Lauren Grush of the verge. I don't think I realized just how much the U S and Russia have had to cooperate in space. What's the history of how this happened?

2 (1m 50s):
Well, let's go all the way back to the early days of the US-based program. In fact, let's go back to October 4th, 1957. That was the date that the Soviet union launched Sputnik

5 (2m 6s):
The radio signal transmitted by the Soviet split Sputnik. The first man-made satellite, as it passed over New York earlier today,

2 (2m 13s):
And this launch shocked the world, Because if you have the capability to put an artificial satellite into earth orbit, then you might also have the same capability to put a nuclear weapon on an Intercontinental ballistic missile that could potentially reach the United States.

6 (2m 34s):
And it's all, but 560 miles above the earth. The satellite reached a speed of 18,000 miles an hour, circling the globe once every 96 minutes.

2 (2m 45s):
And it also prompted a lot of soul searching in the United States about how we should invest in space and space research.

6 (2m 53s):
So we had films of student groups tracking the satellite underscore and the emphasis on science in Russian schools. It is a challenge that president Eisenhower has, then America must meet to survive. Then the space eight

2 (3m 6s):
And experts will say that Sputnik officially kicked off the space race when the U S and the USSR were competing for dominance in space. And that's how we got that famous JFK speech in front of Congress.

7 (3m 22s):
Now it is time to take longest strike time for a great new American enterprise,

2 (3m 28s):
But the U S would land a man on the moon by the end of the decade in the 1960s,

7 (3m 33s):
Which in many ways may hold the key to our future on earth,

2 (3m 41s):
Even in the earliest days of the space race. When we were still just sending people to orbit, there were discussions between the U S and the Soviet union about ways that the space programs between these two nations could collaborate and share data. Those talks occurred under president Kennedy. And so when he was assassinated, they fell apart. So fast forward, the U S was the first to land a person on the moon in 1969 And while the Soviet space program tried to reach that goal, they were never able to,

9 (4m 25s):
I believe

2 (4m 29s):
So then the 1970s come and the relationship between the two space powers becomes much more collaborative. And it culminates in this really incredible mission. In 1975, known as the Apollo Soyuz test project,

6 (4m 44s):
We also have capture docking completed,

2 (4m 48s):
And that's where we see an American Apollo spacecraft doc in earth orbit with a Soviet Soyuz spacecraft. And so astronauts from the United States and cosmonauts from the Soviet union actually met in space. They shook hands with each other. They ate together. They shared some Russian Borsch that was labeled as vodka as a joke, and they did some science experiments together, and it was a really great collaborative project.

1 (5m 22s):
And it was in the middle of the cold war, which is astonishing,

2 (5m 25s):
Right? This moment is often considered the end of the space race. But I think it just goes to show that we've always had somewhat of a frenemy relationship with the Soviet union. And now the Russians, when it came to space, there was always an intent to collaborate, even when we were at odds, you know, militarily and economically,

1 (5m 48s):
How eventually does that get us to the international space station, which is a form of collaboration that is far greater than probably anything the U S and Russia had tried on earth.

2 (5m 59s):
Well, both the us and the Soviet union had wanted to build a space station. Okay.

10 (6m 4s):
I am directing NASA to develop a permanently manned space station and to do it within a decade.

2 (6m 10s):
And the Soviet union had their own station called mirror, which was an orbit from 1986 to 2001, and starting in the nineties, our space shuttle began docking with mirror. In fact, the commander of the first shuttle mission to mirror likes to say his handshake with the cosmonauts. When the hatch open ended the Kramer

11 (6m 33s):
After 20 years, our spacecraft, our dock in orbit. Again, our new era of space exploration has begun.

12 (6m 40s):
This really proves. I think that Russians and Americans can work together and that we can make this international space station project successful. And I can't tell you how much.

2 (6m 50s):
And then in the early nineties, under president Clinton, the U S and Russia decided to collaborate on a space station together. And in 1998, the first module of that space station, the international space station was launched into orbit.

1 (7m 6s):
How exactly do to countries who were once very hostile to each other, decide that they're going to split the responsibility of running something really high stakes, like a space station.

2 (7m 18s):
So the international space station has actually laid out into two complements. You have the Russian side and the American side,

13 (7m 26s):
Then we're going into the Russian segment, be ready. You don't need a passport either

2 (7m 31s):
Which side are made up of modules that each country has made and launched themselves. And the different sides do different things. So the Russia controlled section is in charge of propulsion. So if you ever need to boost the space stations, orbit, move out of the way of space debris, the Russians control that. But in terms of our side, you know, we do plenty ourselves. The United States is responsible for electrical generation. So it's very much a symbiotic relationship, and that's how it was designed so that we have to rely on one another. And that way, you know, it's a great collaborative tool in that respect. And we have command centers in both Houston and Moscow, and they're constantly in contact to make sure that the international space station is running and operating safely.

1 (8m 16s):
And even though there's a Russian half and an American half, I'm imagining that the astronauts do things like eat dinner together, hang out after work together.

2 (8m 25s):
Absolutely it's, it's meant to be a free flowing place where they're constantly working together. In fact, Russian cosmonauts will come to Houston to train. While NASA astronauts will go to Moscow to train, they have to learn Russian in order to go to the space station and the cosmonauts need to know English as well. In fact, when NASA retired, it space shuttle in 2011, the us had to rely on Russian rockets to get its astronauts to the international space station. We have a way to get our people to the ISS. So we had to use the Soyuz.

1 (9m 0s):
The interesting thing about this is that things on earth between the United States and Russia have not been perfect over the last couple of years, has this collaborative relationship been in trouble before?

2 (9m 13s):
Absolutely. And probably the most recent scenario is in 2014 when Russia invaded Crimea. And that was definitely a really difficult time for NASA and rose cosmos the Russian space program. In 2014, we were still reliant on Russia to send our astronauts to the international space station. So we couldn't completely dissolve that partnership. We're less reliant on Russian rockets today because we have the space X crew dragon. It launched its first humans to the international space station in 2020

14 (9m 49s):
<em></em> thanks, Jack Godspeed.

2 (9m 56s):
And so we have that option to send our astronauts to the ISS. We don't need the Russian Soyuz rocket anymore. However, we still need to work together when it comes to the international space station, because we are reliant on various Russian systems to keep the space station of float. So it's not as if we can completely dissolve, but we are in a much more powerful position than we were back when the Crimea invasion occurred.

15 (10m 54s):
This is advertiser content from the American cancer society.

16 (10m 57s):
My name is Cynthia Bigay and I am Hopi born for the Mexican people and T Roberta. We called you birdie. I'm thinking of you, you who inspired me more than any other to stay connected to my Navajo culture. You who made me beautiful silver and turquoise jewelry that I still treasure you, who were one of the last of our family, whose first language is Navajo. You who died of breast cancer from my home in California, I have dedicated myself to helping tribal communities deal with cancer and other health concerns. Growing up as an urban American Indian, I saw firsthand the hardships and health disparities. Our people face.

16 (11m 38s):
We face higher rates of many cancers, and we are more likely to have screenable cancers detected at late stages than white patients. Our elders are getting older. I worry about what happens as the keepers of our culture pass on. So I am here to help keep our culture and to help combat the health disparities that threatened us. We have to make sure we have access to screenings, clinics, and quality health care that we do, mammograms, that we get HPV vaccines to prevent cervical and other cancers. She must sunny birdie. I carry forward your legacy with my career in public health. And I thank you for all the gifts you have given me initially love Cynthia.

16 (12m 22s):
Bigay

15 (12m 23s):
Your support can help make all the difference in the life of a cancer patient by helping fund lifesaving resources, visit cancer.org to donate and to learn more about cancer screening detection and treatment.

17 (12m 39s):
Hey folks, it's Preet Bharara here. I'm the former us attorney for the Southern district of New York and the host of stay tuned, a podcast about law and politics from cafe and the Vox media podcast network. I have a very exciting announcement on Thursday evening, March 31st, we're bringing stay tuned to New York city's town hall for our first in person show. Since before the pandemic. Yes, I said in-person and I'll be joined by two very special guests. Ben Stiller, the actor director, producer, and Goodwill ambassador for the UN refugee agency and Gary Kasparov, the chess Grandmaster, and one of the most insightful voices on Russia and Ukraine today, as always I'll answer audience questions and reflect on the latest news, making the headlines.

17 (13m 24s):
You really don't want to miss it. Join me, Ben, Gary, and your fellow fans by heading to cafe.com/events to get your tickets that's cafe.com/events. I really hope to see you there.

1 (13m 45s):
Lauren Grush senior science reporter at the verge over the past couple of weeks, there has been one voice in particular, one very loud voice threatening the future of the international space station. Who is this gentleman? And what has he been saying?

2 (13m 60s):
This gentleman is Dimitri. Her goes in he's the head of Roscosmos Russia's state space corporation. And he's just been very vocal on Twitter. These past couple of weeks saying things that you would hear from a cartoon villain making threats that people aren't sure whether or not we should take seriously. What

1 (14m 24s):
Is the scariest threat that goes in is making

2 (14m 26s):
Well, perhaps the scariest threat was when he insinuated that the ISS could come crashing down on the U S or in Europe because of the sanctions that have been placed on Russia.

19 (14m 40s):
There is also the option of dropping a 500 tons structure on India and China. Do you want to threaten them with such a prospect? The ISS does not fly over Russia. So all the risks are yours.

2 (14m 52s):
As we said before, the Russians are responsible for the propulsion on the international space station. So what does that look like in order to boost the space stations, orbit or maneuver it? The Russians will dock a cargo capsule to the international space station. These are spacecraft that bring supplies to the international space station, but they also have thrusters on them. So once they are docked with the ISS, they can give the space station a bit of a push in order to raise its orbit or maneuver it. Also, we can rely on the thrusters that are embedded in the Sebesta module, which is also a Russian module.

2 (15m 33s):
So the point is we rely on Russia to do these maneuvers, and there is some truth to what Roy goes into saying that if the Russians were to just completely bow out, we would need to come up with another solution for how to boost the ISS.

1 (15m 51s):
That is rather terrifying, especially coming from a guy who's in a position of such great power. Has he continued banging this drum? I mean, w has someone at the Kremlin told him, cut it out. Like you can't just go on doing this.

2 (16m 6s):
Oh, no, he's been going strong these past few days, but he's known for his bluster and making very provocative comments like these. In fact, many years ago, when we were developing new capabilities to send our astronauts to the ISS, he made a comment about how NASA could use a trampoline to get its astronauts to orbit he's. He loves to make jokes in the most simple terms. So I would take all of the things that he said with a grain of salt. However, they do take on a much more sinister tone in a time like this,

20 (16m 42s):
The head of the Russian space agency, Dimitri ever goes in posting this video on social media, threatening to abandon American astronaut mark van dehy at the station. He supposed to return home on a Russian ship in just three weeks.

2 (16m 56s):
The most recent is he's gotten into a very spicy Twitter exchange with Scott Kelly, a former NASA astronaut.

21 (17m 4s):
I was just enraged that he, the Roscosmos said that, you know, they were going to leave an American crew member behind. I never thought I would ever hear anything so outrageous.

2 (17m 15s):
And he recently said that Russia would no longer sell rocket engines to the United States saying that I don't care how they get there. They can write on their broomsticks for all I care,

1 (17m 28s):
Who is Dimitri Rogozin. And how did he get to be where he is despite seeming to have a very volatile attitude?

2 (17m 36s):
Sure. Well, there is some important context here. So back when Russia annexed Crimea in 2014 Rogozin was actually a high-ranking member of Putin's government. He was a deputy prime minister. And so that invasion occurred. He was personally sanctioned by the U S after that. So he's not allowed to visit the United States. I think he is reacting to further sanctions in a very volatile way because of that history.

1 (18m 4s):
So you have astronauts hopping between Euston and Moscow. Presumably I would think just kind of staying out of it, but the guy who is running the Russian space program, which collaborates so deeply with the United States can not actually come to the United States because he's been sanctioned, right. Has that proven to be problematic at all?

2 (18m 24s):
It's definitely made things interesting. You know, for instance, the NASA administrators have to usually schedule a trip to Moscow in order to meet with him. And in fact, the most recent NASA administrator, bill Nelson, he had talked about potentially going to Moscow to meet with her goes in. But last I checked, those plans are indefinitely on hold.

1 (18m 47s):
What would happen if Russia decided, okay, the, this has gone too far. We want to pull out of the international space station. We're done, we're done with the U S and we're done with this collaboration. What would happen next?

2 (18m 60s):
That is the biggest question on the docket right now, NASA and cosmos are continuing to operate the space station. Normally there hasn't been any changes in that regard, so no need to panic just yet. Yes. From what I understand, we would need to come up with some kind of contingency plan for this propulsion system. And one thing that we could do potentially is use our own cargo spacecraft to boost the space station. So we have two spacecraft that we send to the international space station periodically, and those are the space X crew dragon, and the Northrop Grumman sickness spacecraft.

2 (19m 42s):
In fact, there's a sickness spacecraft at the ISS right now, and it's actually going to test out a new orbit boosting capability this April. So the timing is really great there. However, using these systems to maneuver the ISS is not a long-term plan. We've never really done that before. So we would need to come up with some kind of design or, you know, re-engineer them just to make sure that that is a long-term plan. I think the biggest problem though, would be what happens to the ISS in the longterm. So for now we have an agreement with Russia to collaborate on the ISS through 2024, the Biden administration wants to extend that to 2030, but the Russians have not signed on yet.

2 (20m 35s):
The writing on the wall seems bad for that to happen at the moment. So we need to come up with a plan for what we're going to do when the space station ends. And if that is 2024, that's right around the corner. Now we've come up with a tentative plan that NASA released earlier this year. But that plan relies on using Russian progress spacecraft to bring the space station down over the ocean. Wow. So we would have to come up with an alternative plan and like I said, 20, 24 is not far away and we'd also need to make the decision. Okay. Do we want to continue using the space station beyond 20, 24 without Russia?

2 (21m 16s):
I think that's a big question, mark as well.

1 (21m 21s):
Lauren, do we know how the astronauts and the cosmonauts onboard the international space station feel about this conflict?

2 (21m 30s):
We don't, and that's probably the question I get asked the most.

1 (21m 36s):
Are they hanging out

2 (21m 38s):
From all the context clues I can gather? I would imagine that they are just not talking about it or if they are talking about it, we have, we'll never know what they're saying, but yes, it, it, I imagine it would be an incredibly awkward situation. There are seven people on board, the ISS right now for Americans to Russians and a German astronaut from the European space agency. So I would love to be a fly on the wall for those dinner conversations. But for now that is going to be an eternal mystery.

1 (22m 13s):
I love that there is a German in there as well, might as well make it even even more awkward. And yet, I mean, these people are professionals, right?

2 (22m 22s):
Absolutely. And in fact, they're going to have to maintain their professionalism when it comes to doing some crew swaps later this month. So one big thing that people are keeping an eye on is the fact that mark Vanda high who's been on the space station for the past year is coming home this month on a Russian Soyuz capsule. And he'll be riding with those two cosmonauts that are on the space station right now. And, you know, that means he's going to have to rely on Russia and NASA is going to have to rely on Russia to get him home safely. So I think they all want to put those politics aside to make sure that everyone gets home in one piece.

1 (23m 0s):
What would it mean for this partnership to end?

2 (23m 4s):
Well, I think in terms of NASA, the U S is in much better shape now than it was when Russia invaded Crimea. Like I said, we aren't as dependent on Russia anymore for a variety of things. And in fact, we've been distancing ourselves from them for quite a while. And you know, right now NASA is big flagship program is the Artemis mission, which is to send the first woman in the first person of color to the moon. And Russia is very absent from that. We are making partnerships with Artemis on with other countries, but Russia has been very vocal that it's not a fan of our Artimus program. Wow. And they have been discussing ways that they can collaborate with China.

2 (23m 48s):
Russia has instead of working with the U S so in terms of our future partnerships with Russia, there isn't a lot going on. And right now, you know, we have a very robust private space industry that has been just ballooning over the past few decades. And so we no longer have to rely on Russian rockets to get to the ISS. We now have space. X has crew dragon to do that. I don't want to knock the importance of space collaboration, but we are standing on our own much better these days.

1 (24m 25s):
And possibly the age of collaboration with Russia in space is over

2 (24m 30s):
It's possible. However, I don't think that Russia quite wants that. One thing that a lot of people are noting here is that the international space station is Russia's shining star in their space program right now over the last few years, Russia's space program has been swept up in corruption. It's been losing money. They really don't have much to point to other than the ISS as a beacon of hope for their program. So it really behooves them to continue working with us. They're not doing as many bold things as we are.

2 (25m 12s):
And while they've tried to go back to the moon, they just haven't made it happen. So I think it's in their best interests to continue working with us. But I do think we are seeing a future where we are no longer as interested in working with them.

23 (25m 30s):
So <em></em> So <em></em>

1 (25m 41s):
Lauren Grush is a senior reporter at the verge today's show was produced by will read edited by Matthew collect engineered by Paul mousey. And fact-checked by Laura bowlers. I'm Noel king it's today explained

23 (25m 59s):
Broccoli a show By here.