0 (1s):
The motion is adopted.

1 (4s):
Outgoing Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi had reason to be excited this week. She notched a big, huge historic win in a lame duck session of Congress no less.

0 (14s):
The Respect for Marriage Act takes key steps to uphold marriage equality under federal law. This is what we're celebrating,

1 (22s):
But not everyone's excited. The Bill's biggest sponsor in the Senate told us the legislation is humble.

2 (29s):
The Respect for Marriage Act is actually a pretty humble piece of legislation.

1 (34s):
And an activist we spoke to said maybe marriage has been sucking the oxygen outta the room for like a few decades now.

3 (41s):
I would be pushing for essentially a different sort of a bill that would recognize the multiple ways in which people create family structures right in our culture.

1 (55s):
All that, and more ahead on today, explained

5 (60s):
Vultures. TV critics spend a lot of time looking for the best tv, which in 2022 has been hard.

6 (1m 8s):
There was certainly a lot of TV more than anyone could humanly watch, but then every so often there would be yes, many nights where I would say like, is there just a law and order from 20 years ago that I could watch

5 (1m 21s):
The best TV of the year? And why it's so difficult to find something to watch this week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast

1 (1m 40s):
Today explained December, 2022. This year will be remembered for the Dobbs decision that came outta the Supreme Court of the United States, the one that overturned Roe v. Wade. And in his concurring opinion, justice Clarence Thomas argued the court shouldn't stop with abortion, that it should go after other un enumerated rights, like same-sex marriage, which the Supreme Court legalized in 2015 with the Obergefell case. That freaked out a lot of Americans and a lot of politicians who thought this was settled law. And some of them, including Senator Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin, decided to do something about it. And this week, Congress passed the Respect for Marriage Act, though he spoke with the Senator last week when it passed the Senate.

1 (2m 22s):
So

2 (2m 22s):
The, the Respect for Marriage Act is actually a pretty humble piece of legislation because we know after the Dobbs decision that there's a threat out there. There's a, a open invitation that's been issued by Clarence Thomas to re-litigate marriage equality. What it does, the Respect for Marriage Act is it repeals the Defense of Marriage Act, which was passed in 1996 to create a federal definition of marriage as being between a man and a woman and, and basically saying that the federal government would not be forced to recognize same sex marriages should any state approve it.

2 (3m 10s):
By the way, at the time the Defense of Marriage Act was enacted, there was no state in the United States that recognized same sex marriage. The second thing it does is basically says, regardless of the law in each state, if if you are in a marriage that it was legally valid, where entered, when entered, that needs to be respected by the federal government and every other state by virtue of the full faith and credit clause of the US Constitution, for those who might wanna be married in the future. Sadly, it does not force every state to allow same-sex marriages, but again, it says, if you were to marry in the future in a state that does recognize it, so long as that marriage is legal, where and when entered into it will be recognized by any other state.

2 (4m 10s):
It's a critical piece of legislation moving forward. Should the court ever reconsider Obergefell?

1 (4m 17s):
You called this a humble piece of legislation, which I think means it doesn't do as much as you maybe wished it did. What did this fall short of doing the Respect for Marriage Act?

2 (4m 30s):
You know, it, it turns out that it is very, very complicated to codify a decision like O Berger felt because, and I'd love to also give the analogy of the comparison between this and the interracial marriage case back in 67 called Loving versus Virginia, when that case was decided, and it struck down all the states that had laws banning interracial marriage at the time that case was decided, Virginia and 15 other states had laws on the books barring interracial marriage.

2 (5m 9s):
Today, zero states still have those laws on the books, but it took until the year 2000 for the last state to repeal its ban on interracial marriage. Meanwhile, because of the Loving versus Virginia decision, it was legal everywhere and they were recognized everywhere, but the states took that long to go back and review their statutes. When the Supreme Court overturned Roe versus Wade, many states, including my home state of Wisconsin, had never repealed their criminal abortion bans. Ours dates back to 1849, now jettison to the same-sex marriage discussion today, 35 states have either statutory or constitutional bans on same sex marriage.

2 (6m 1s):
So we have the old Berger felt decision, but I don't know how long it is gonna take for all of those states, including my own, to repeal those laws. And frankly, that's why we need the Insurance of the Respect for Marriage Act. What we were unable to do in this law is repeal or alter state constitutions repeal laws in, in the fifties. Right. You can't do that from the federal level.

1 (6m 31s):
So you're saying you couldn't comprehensively legalize same sex marriage.

2 (6m 35s):
Exactly. And plus we regulate marriage and oversee marriage at the state level.

1 (6m 41s):
I, I think it's easy to look at the Defense of Marriage Act in 1996, next to the Respect for Marriage Act in 2022 and see progress in this country at the same time. You only got support from 12 Republicans. What were the rest of them saying when they told you, I can't back this

2 (7m 4s):
Bill? My Republican colleagues, they were hanging their hat on different, on different excuses, if you will. I would say it's probably only a small handful who, who would say, I oppose same sex marriage. I disagree with the Obergefell decision, and therefore I would not want to vote for the respect for Marriage Act. I think rather what we were seeing was a lot of arguments brought forward that were false, but, but too many people were giving them credence. There were a lot of assertions made, again, falsely that this somehow impinged religious freedoms. It doesn't, it's, it, it's a status quo.

2 (7m 46s):
The base bill was status quo, but my, some of my Republican colleagues felt that they needed clarity, that they needed questions answered, and the way in which we addressed those questions got the support of a dozen Republican colleagues. But, but frankly, others just didn't come on board.

1 (8m 6s):
I read that some of your colleagues across the aisle were, you know, citing religious freedoms, even though a lot of major religious institutions, including the Church of Jesus Christ, of Latter Day Saints, which in the past has been pretty vocally against gay rights, was supporting this legislation. What gives there

2 (8m 24s):
Communities of faith want, of course, to be assured that they won't be forced to celebrate marriages that aren't consistent with their faith traditions. And Berger felt never created that, that pressure, you know, there's a lot of folks who go around saying, the sky is falling, the sky is falling, but in fact it's not. But the, the church of, of Latter Day Saints was, I think, very sincere in their, in their discussions with proponents of the Respect for Marriage Act. And they were also interested in the clarity of making sure that, that we're talking about marriages between two people, not polygamous relationships.

2 (9m 4s):
Once those issues were addressed, yes, indeed we won the support of, of the Mormon church, some of the, the entities rep representing Evangelical churches, Orthodox Judaism. I mean, it was amazing the coalition of folks that came together just because we added the clarity that this bill will protect the status quo. With regard to religious liberties.

1 (9m 29s):
Help me square what you all have accomplished in Congress with what's going on in the States right now. According to the human rights campaign, there have been over 300 anti l lgbtq bills that have been proposed in state legislatures across the United States in the past few years. It, it feels like federally we're moving in one direction, and then in some states we're moving in the exact opposite direction.

2 (9m 58s):
One of the things I would say is I, I suspect a huge percentage of those state laws and state bills that are being introduced are particularly targeting the transgender community and particularly trans youth. It's been so disheartening to see the sort of legislative attacks that our transgender community is, is facing. And of course, we have to stand together and fight these pieces of legislation. And I will tell you that the rhetoric is also present on Capitol Hill. I think where we are seeing this arc of progress has a lot to do with the fact that in the years since the Obergfel decision that so many Americans, including my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the United States Senate, now know married couples, same sex couples.

2 (10m 58s):
They may have family members, they may have somebody on their staff, they may have somebody who they go to church with, a couple who live down the road. And that has changed hearts and minds, and it has moved people and it has gotten us from a place where this vote this week would've been unthinkable a decade ago. But this week with 60 61 votes, we were able to pass the Respect for Marriage Act. We have a lot further to go with regard to true equality and true equity for the entire L G B T Q community.

1 (11m 36s):
And do you think it's only a matter of time?

2 (11m 39s):
I think that one of the things that is proven is that as people see us and know us, that hearts and minds change and that has to continue to happen. Visibility is key to creating change and to creating progress.

1 (11m 60s):
Senator Tammy Baldwin, Wisconsin more today, explained in a minute,

ClickUp (12m 7s):
Support for the show today comes from click up. And though I will admit I've never used it, I do have something in common with Click Up, which is, I think we're both obsessed with productivity. Good thing. I work for a daily new show, plenty to do. Click Up is a productivity platform designed to save you a full day every week. That means more time for clients, for meetings, for eating snacks. Who doesn't love snacks? Here's how it works. Click up houses all your projects and documents and goals and spreadsheets and anything else you need for work in one place. So you're gonna spend less time clicking between all your tabs and your different programs you're running. You can help your team of 10 plus be more efficient and productive with Click Up listeners can use the code. Explain to get 15% off click ups massive unlimited plan for a year, meaning you can start reclaiming your time for under $5 a month. You can sign up today@clickup.com with the code explained.

Money App (13m 11s):
This episode is sponsored by Money App. If your money is currently in a traditional bank, it may be earning little to no interest Money. App now offers an interest checking account with 3.25 a p y on all balances. There are no monthly fees and no minimum balance Money App is also F D I C insured up to 250,000 through Evolve Bank and Trust. Now through January 15th, money App is giving away a total of up to a hundred thousand dollars between 25 winners in their triple your Paycheck giveaway. Here's how it works. If you sign up for a Money app account and are approved every paycheck directly deposited into your Money app account from today through January 15th has the chance to be tripled. If you are selected to win, you can visit www.money.app/explain to sign up for money app. That's www dot m o n e y dot slash Explain Money. App is a technology company, not a bank. Banking services provided by Evolv Bank and Trust member F D I C money app checking account has no fees in a competitive 3.25% annual percentage yield on all balances. Visit money.app/explain for entry and eligibility details. Each winner is capped at $4,000 sweepstakes offered and managed by Prague Services Inc. Not Evolve Bank and trust. No purchase necessary

9 (14m 32s):
You're listening to today explains this is is today Explainer Cha explains,

1 (14m 37s):
Explain death,

9 (14m 38s):
Explain duck.

1 (14m 40s):
L g BT Q activist Kenyon Pharaoh was happy to see the respect for Marriage act get through Congress, but not like over the moon. Happy. In fact, he's been feeling ambivalent about this country's fight for marriage equality for a minute now.

3 (14m 54s):
Well, for many years in the kind of first decade of the two thousands, I was one of the loudest, you know, kind of critics of the same sex marriage movement coming from within the L G B T community think that a lot of people may be surprised to learn that there was actually a lot of debate really going back, frankly, into the 1990s about whether the L G B T movement should pursue marriage equality at, at this point, you know, for, for several reasons. One of the critiques, you know, that I I have had in a lot of other, you know, L G B T activists have had of the same sex marriage work is that it really drew, you know, a lot of resources and time and energy and policy making into, you know, one issue.

3 (15m 44s):
You know, first and foremost a lot of the funding for other kinds of work that L G B T organizations were doing dried up in the two thousands. So if you weren't fighting for marriage funders were reticent to fund your work, right? I I worked for an organization in New York City, you know, in the two thousands and we were organizing homeless people in New York City's shelter system and doing policy change work, welfare, the social safety net institutions, and also the Department of Homeless services in New York City. And after marriage became legal in New York State, the organization ultimately closed because there wasn't funding to do that kind of work.

3 (16m 33s):
About a year or two later, the state equality organization, empire State Pride agenda closed its doors. Initials response from funders was just to not fund because marriage had passed. So obviously L G B T people couldn't possibly have other sort of policy needs for a statewide organization to advocate on behalf of week. The L G B T community, particularly gay and bisexual men and transgender women, still make up the vast majority of people vulnerable to and living with h hiv aids in the United States. And it was tension in the two thousands about whether L G B T groups wanted to continue to do work around H aids because they didn't want the sort of message that gay men in particular were still at risk for H I V to sort of get in the way of their messaging around we're just like everybody else too.

3 (17m 29s):
We're just white suburban dads, you know, trying to raise kids, right? And so there are all these ways in which the fight for same sex marriage definitely pulled resources out of other L G B T work and organizations literally closed despite the fact that they were doing work around homelessness and housing, which is still a huge issue for, particularly for L G B T T Youth in America around immigration and L G B T folks around a whole host of other issues that, you know, just were not seen as as important Generally in American society, people are getting married less and not more.

3 (18m 12s):
And so what do we do with the number of sort of family configurations and households that are not married, but also could benefit from other kinds of civil protections for the kinds of families that they have, but are not necessarily protected just because the people aren't having sex or in love with one another in, in that kind of romantic way. One example that you know, I've used a lot over the years is, you know, what about the Golden Girls? The

1 (18m 41s):
Golden Girls like the TV

3 (18m 42s):
Show, the absolutely the Golden Girls, the TV show character,

10 (18m 46s):
I like you and I like cats. I also happen to have a room for rent and the name is Blanche Deveau

3 (18m 51s):
Hear Me Out. So part of what, what what I'm saying is fewer people are getting married or fewer people are staying married for their entire lives. And so we have an aging population in the US A number of stories have been written over the last, you know, 20 years of, you know, senior citizens who are coming together to cohabitate and live together and share resources. They don't live with their children or near their children and they become each other's, you know, kind of primary caretakers and the people closest to one another, although they are not in, you know, romantic or sexual relationships and they may not be blood relatives.

3 (19m 32s):
So what do we do with, with, you know, households like that, right? And I think that we have a lot of different ways in which people are kind of making their households work and constructing family that don't get protected by a marriage per se at all. And myself and a lot of other folks in the l g BT movement for many years advocated for a different kind of a system that would allow for people to be able to determine, this is my family, this is the person or people whom I want to be able to make decisions for me in any situation where I might be, you know, ill or incapacitated or whatever where I want other sort of benefits to go, we live together, we should be able to file jointly as a household, et cetera.

3 (20m 18s):
That isn't about, you know, whether or not you, you know, won at the dating game essentially.

1 (20m 23s):
It sounds like you've been advocating for this for decades. Is it not going well?

3 (20m 29s):
Well actually when I, when I explain it to people that way people get it right. I I've had this conversation with, you know, within the L G B T community, I've had it with with relatives of mine and they're like, oh, that does make a lot of sense. Why aren't we doing that? But I think, I think why

1 (20m 48s):
Aren't we doing it? Why aren't we doing it? Is it because, is it because it's kind of harder to define some of these less traditional household relationships. I mean, cuz roommates can be the people you consider family, but they could also be the people who drive you nuts who you wish you to live with, right?

3 (21m 4s):
Well, isn't that true of your biological family? Being related to people doesn't necessarily mean, you know, that y'all are always, you know, in love with one another. So, but, but you do know that at the end of the day that these are the people who may have your back right in, in, in a range of different ways. I do think that for some people in the L G B T community, having the marriage piece in a homophobic society says on some level that, you know, I have the same kind of of, you know, ethical and moral or religious compass as a straight person because my relationship can be also viewed in the eyes of the state and of God or whatever in the same, you know, kind of way.

3 (21m 54s):
So I do, I feel like there's some of it is that people are attached to what the, a marriage, given that it does have a kind of quasi-religious sort of moral sort of centering around it, are invested in keeping it that way and just allowing for themselves as a gay person, as a lesbian or whatever to be in, in that institution.

1 (22m 17s):
Does the fact that there's bipartisan support for the respect for Marriage Act in, in Congress mean that we've actually made progress here and that might benefit the progress that you'd like to see?

3 (22m 29s):
I I do think that the bipartisan support does show some sort of social progress, but let's also look at what's happening here in Ohio. Just this very weekend in Columbus, Ohio, which since the 1990s, Columbus, Ohio has been thought of as like one of the cities that has a very large, you know, kind of L G B T population. And we had Proud Boys show up armed at a drag queen story hour for kids and shut it down.

11 (22m 58s):
The event was canceled after the Ohio chapter of the Proud Boys, which is an extremist organization announced they planned to protest the event. More than 50 members of the Proud Boys still showed up to the canceled event to protest. And

3 (23m 13s):
Now members of the, so on the one hand we are in a place where there have been a lot of sort of advancements in culture and representation, et cetera, and even in this case potentially legally, but, but we are still also living with the real back of the advances that the L G B T community has made in the last 20 years. That tells me that we, we still are not, you know, where we ultimately need to be.

1 (23m 39s):
I, if you were a senator in the United States Congress, what would you be pushing for in this moment, if not the Respect for Marriage Act?

3 (23m 47s):
I would be pushing for essentially a, a different sort of a bill that would recognize the multiple ways in which people create family structures right in our culture and what are the ways in which we can create legal protections for all of those families. And, and that would of course keep people who are currently married, whether straight or gay or lesbian or what have you in, you know, they're would still be married, they'd still be able to do those things. But then for the rest of us who are unmarried or who have other sort of, you know, kind of household dynamics or relationships, I, the Golden Girls is the easiest sort of example that everybody knows.

3 (24m 34s):
But, you know, you could also think about, you know, the series pose right on, you know, FX and think about like the House and ballroom community, which are L G B T folks, right? Who are, you know, in a, a certain kind of relationship one another, people often live together. You

12 (24m 50s):
Ever consider joining a house? What do you mean? Well, a house is the family. You get to choose. I'm a house mother.

3 (24m 55s):
I'm providing, there's a, a range of different household configurations in this country that we just don't talk about and we just act like everyone is kind of waiting till the day that they can kind of get up in a veer wing on any given Sunday and walk down the aisle when in fact most people are actually living their lives in, in beautifully constructed ways that have nothing to do with Ozzie and Harriet. And those folks deserve the ability to legally protect their, their relationships and their families as well.

13 (25m 29s):
If you wanna ride, don't ride the white host

1 (25m 36s):
Kenyon Pharaoh. He's a longtime LT Q activist and the VP of policy for an organization called Point Source Youth, which does work on LT Q Homelessness. I'm Sean Ramis firm. This is today explained. We were produced today by s Petros, edited by Matthew Collette, fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Paul Robert Mosey. The rest of our team includes Victoria Chamberlain, Haie Ma Wadi Halima Shaw, Amanda Louellen Miles, Brian and Aha Artsy Amina aad, our supervising producer of theme Shapiro's, our Director of Sound. And I'm honored to share the stage with the first Noel King. We use music by Breakmaster Cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld and had a little extra help from Patrick Boyd on the ones and twos this week.

1 (26m 19s):
Today Explained is on the radio in partnership with W n yc and we are part of the Vox Media podcast network.