0 (1s):
Rafah is the southernmost city In Gaza, it had a population of about 200,000 people. But after Israel declared war on Hamas, after the attacks of 10, seven, more than a million Palestinians fled south to Rafah. They have nothing. They exist between the sky and the land. A reporter told us, despite criticism, Israeli, Prime, Minister, Benjamin, Netanyahu plans a ground invasion of Rafah.

1 (26s):
I think the people who are telling you, oh, you can't do it, you can't go into Rafah under any conditions, are basically saying, don't win, lose

0 (33s):
Facing all of this. Some people taking refuge there have just stopped wondering what comes next.

2 (40s):
If the people thought of what will happen after ceasefire or after the end of this war, they, they will die. They, they will die. They will die.

0 (51s):
Coming up on today explained, can four months of frantic diplomacy lead to a ceasefire before rafa's

Unexplainable podcast (58s):
destruction? If Valentine's Day isn't hitting you right this year, you might just need a good cry. But for some people crying can be almost impossible. I had not cried in more than a decade, and I remember being in my room and just saying, okay, well this is it. Come hell or high water. I'm not leaving this room till I cry This week on Unexplainable crying. Why we do it? And what happens to us if we don't listen to Unexplainable new episodes every Wednesday,

6 (1m 39s):
Roses are red. This poem's a gimmick. The marriage rate is falling for black women and the reasons are systemic.

7 (1m 46s):
The barriers might look different. They might show up differently, but they're facing the same forbidden black love barrier.

6 (1m 56s):
Why is the marriage rate so low for black women? That answer is especially complicated. That's this week on The Weeds new episodes every Wednesday.

3 (2m 11s):
This is

2 (2m 12s):
Today explained. I am Il Mousa, a Palestinian freelance journalist from the Gaza Tribe. I work for the Guardia, the Intercept, middle East Eye, Al, Jazeera and Electronic. And I have been working as a journalist for two and a half years now. I am in the city of Rafah, in the southern part of the Gaza Str. This is my second displacement. Actually. On 13th of October, the Israeli authorities ordered the residents of the Gaza Strip to evacuate the Northern Gaza Strip and to relocate to the South.

2 (2m 55s):
So consequently, my family and I sought refuge in Azi refugee camp where we stayed at my grandfather's house, along with approximately 40 other displaced individuals. The situation there was dire. We faced severe shortages of food, running water, and even the drinkable water. And even Israel claimed that area as a safe area. I lost 10 people of my family. Israel targeted the house of my cousins, and as a result, 10 of my relatives were killed.

2 (3m 35s):
Seven of them were children and one of them was a woman, and the other was a young man.

0 (3m 44s):
That's what brought Aseel and her surviving family to Rafah down by Gaza's border with Egypt. Rafah was a safe zone, but the Israeli offensive that began up north has now come to Gaza's southernmost point. So to the north is all destruction. And to the south is Egypt, where most Palestinians can't go. Aseel, and more than a million other people are trapped.

2 (4m 8s):
Now I can hear the Israeli bombardment. I I can see the civilians, I can see the people who are living in tents and in undescribable situations. On Monday, the residents of Rafah, along with the displaced people, endure a night of terror beyond description. It was Didley night. The Israeli occupation unleashed a barrage of missiles and artillery shells on the city resulting in the tragic loss of approximately 100 civilian lives. So that night, the house of refuge, I am and was shaking the windows of that house shattered. Actually, I consider myself super lucky to be in a house.

2 (4m 50s):
The majority of people are now in the streets and in the tents, they are enduring a severe cold. They don't have even CLOs. Actually, I borrowed clouds from my cousins. When people left their homes and were displaced, they, they only talk their i their passports, their very essential needs. People cannot hold all the things that they may need to another home or to another tent or to another refuge area or shelter. The Israeli bombardment is hard in itself, being under fire, under bombardment, but being under bombardment without even the essential needs such as food, water, medical, supplies, medicines, is making the problem or the tough time harder than enduring it with only bombing.

0 (5m 52s):
As a journalist, you are also interviewing people in Rafah. What are you hearing that you think we should know?

2 (6m 1s):
Okay, today I was in an interview with two sisters who are married to two brothers. They were in uni. They were in a building with their husbands and children. And they are civilians. They are civilians. The Israeli occupation targeted their home, leaving their husbands killed and ordering them or instructing them or forcing them to leave their home. After bombing it, they let the women who are these two ladies, tiam, they ordered, they forced Saha and empty Sam and their children to evacuate this home.

2 (6m 45s):
The two LA ladies told me, Aseel, we left our husbands in the streets, the body of their husbands, they are killed. And we run with our children. And we walked for a long time to reach a safer area. I cannot even imagine how, how how they endured this. They left the bodies of their husbands and the streets. Sahar told me, Aseel, I didn't have the chance to even hug him or to kiss his head or even to protect his body or to bury him. Actually, this was the hardest thing I hear today. In a different interview, I met family who are displaced for three times.

2 (7m 29s):
They are staying in a tent, in a very small tent. They actually have nothing to eat. They have even the, the, the simplest essentials. They don't have them in the tent. They told me that Aseel, that Monday night was terrifying. The situation was indescribable. We were very afraid we decided to leave Rafah and to relocate once again. But we don't know where to go.

0 (7m 56s):
Il much of the international community is really angry about what's happening in Rafah. There is an understanding that people have been pushed into Rafah and have no place else to go. And so why would Israel conduct a bombardment of this place? That essentially feels like a last stand for civilians. Now, when Israel is asked about that, Israeli leaders say, Rafah is the last Hamas stronghold. This is now where Hamas is hiding, is located. Does that strike you as a correct assessment? You're laughing.

2 (8m 32s):
Yeah, I'm laughing. They are killing the children. Women, they are targeting hospitals. They are targeting schools. They are killing journalists. The correspondent of they, they called his wife Hi, his daughters, his sons. And I'm just laughing. They are like saying they are looking for Haas. The the hospitals are not hama the killing of approximately 30,000 people. The majority of them are women and children. Where's Hamas? Where is Hama between the civilians And, and the, the, they order the, the, the residents to relocate Tofa.

2 (9m 14s):
Now we are over 1.3 million Palestinians in Rafah. But let me tell you something. Israel is killing people without getting any accountable. They see that the whole word fails. Palestinians. In Gaza, they left Palestinian in Gaza to be killed, to be wanted, to be targeted, to be bombed. They are not looking for Haas. They are trying to kill behold Gaza. This is what I can see. And in the northern parts of the Gaza strip, there's a real starvation. My friend just asked me, IL, if you can't help me to get any wheat flour, we don't have food.

2 (10m 1s):
I asked him to go to my bombed house and look for any kind of food if he can't find it under the doorbell, people are now looking for food from under durable. They are eating the food of the animals. And we are talking about Haas. No, Israel is not targeting Haas. It's targeting the Palestinian people.

0 (10m 29s):
So what Israel is conducting is an aerial bombardment, but Israeli troops have not entered into Rafah. Are people in Rafah expecting a ground invasion? Yes,

2 (10m 40s):
We are expecting, okay, a ground invasion. Yes, we are. And if the prospect of a ground invasion into Rafah happened, It would be a catastrophe. As 1.3 million people are already displaced in Rafah. So the people now have no place to go to.

0 (10m 60s):
And, and is there any way to prepare for this?

2 (11m 4s):
What can we do? Can what? What can we do? What can we do? We stay. We stay in, in, in the houses, in the tents, the streets and the shelters waiting to be killed. We don't have plan F. We mainly plan A, plan B, plan C. And we have no more plans.

0 (11m 39s):
Aseel Musa, she's a twice displaced Palestinian journalist in Rafah where backup plans have been rendered useless. And people only focus on survival.

2 (11m 50s):
We don't have the luxury to think of the aftermath. We only think how to survive day by day. We think of how to flee from being killed.

0 (12m 8s):
Now there is a method by which the world deals with such catastrophes and that method is diplomacy like Aseel. We wondered where diplomatic efforts stand and we have answers coming up.

Wondery (12m 29s):
Support for today explain comes from American history tellers, the Underground Railroad that is a podcast from wondering. It's about how slavery tightened its grip on Americans in the decades before the Civil War and how a diverse group of abolitionists began to construct a clandestine path to freedom for the enslaved. It's hosted by Lindsey Graham, but not that Lindsey Graham Wondery podcast. American history tellers takes you to the events times and people that shaped America and Americans, our values, our struggles, and our dreams. You can follow American history tellers on the Wondery app or wherever you get your podcasts. You can listen to this season of American history tellers, the Underground Railroad early and ad free right now on Wondery Plus.

Unlocking Us with Brene Brown (13m 26s):
Hi everyone. I'm Brene Brown and this is unlocking us. In this podcast we'll explore ideas, stories, experiences, research, books, film, music, anything that reflects the universal experiences of being human from the bravest moments to the most broken hearted. Some episodes will be conversations with the people who are teaching me challenging me, confusing me, maybe ticking me off a little bit. Some days I'll just talk directly to you about what I'm learning and how it's changing the way I think and feel. Episodes of unlocking us start on February 28th. We're gonna do three or four part series every quarter, so about 12 to 15 episodes a year, and they'll drop on Wednesdays. And now you can find me wherever you normally listen to your podcasts. You can get new episodes as soon as they're published by following unlocking us on your favorite podcast app. As usual, always stay awkward, brave and kind.

0 (14m 26s):
This is today

9 (14m 27s):
Explained.

10 (14m 28s):
My name is Anton LaGuardia. I'm the diplomatic editor of the Economist, which means I write about foreign policy and national security. Alright,

0 (14m 36s):
So this war has been underway for about four months and one week. What has diplomacy looked like so far in this conflict? How would you characterize it?

10 (14m 46s):
Well, it's been intense. There's a lot of flying. There's a lot of time spent in planes and convoys and marbled palaces. Anthony Blinken has been to the region five times so far since October 7th. I'm

11 (14m 60s):
Back first and foremost to consult directly with our partners on the joint efforts to bring all of the remaining hostages home.

10 (15m 8s):
This particular negotiation, I think has been difficult 'cause it's working at three levels. One is to mitigate the humanitarian impact of the conflict on Palestinians. The second part of it is to try and get an immediate ceasefire and hostage deal. And the third and hardest element is try and connect all this to a bigger regional peace deal that tries to, you know, at its most ambitious and more than a century of conflict between Israelis and Palestinians.

0 (15m 36s):
President Biden has said

12 (15m 37s):
United States will do everything possible to make it happen.

0 (15m 40s):
What does that include? What's on offer?

10 (15m 42s):
Well, what's on offer is something akin to what happened in November. You remember there was a one week pause in which, you know, several dozen hostages and prisoners were released

13 (15m 55s):
After nearly seven weeks of intense fighting. Finally a day of peace as the temporary truth took. Hold a moment. So many have been anxiously waiting for.

10 (16m 4s):
The idea is to do it again and do it on much bigger scale. So they're talking about a six week pause in the fighting renewable, and then there's obviously bargaining going on about two main things. One is exactly who gets released and what sequence in exchange for what. And the other thing is, does this lead to a permanent cessation in the fighting or not?

0 (16m 32s):
And what kind of progress is being made

10 (16m 34s):
At the moment, seemingly little. There was hope a week or two ago that things were fluid and moving. Both sides seemed interested in a deal. But we've just heard that after the latest round of talks between intelligence chiefs, including Bill Burns, the director of the CIA in Cairo, the Israelis have said the delegation is not going back to Cairo. And this has obviously caused much consternation and anger among the families of the hostages who feel that not enough is being done to get their loved ones home.

0 (17m 10s):
What accounts for the log jam in negotiations? Is there one particular perspective holding things up?

10 (17m 16s):
I think it's a number of things. The hardest point is that Hamas wants a full cessation of violence and a full Israeli withdrawal. Israel wants a temporary cessation in the fighting and the ability to keep fighting until total victory is the Israeli Prime Minister Binyam. Netanyahu puts it. So Hamas is not going to release his hostages if it thinks the Israelis are gonna come back at them. And Israel says we have to finish this fight so that Hamas is destroyed. So that's I think, the biggest problem.

0 (17m 51s):
We are seeing reports that President Biden is growing very frustrated.

14 (17m 56s):
There was some reporting this morning that President Biden told some campaign donors that Prime Minister Netanyahu quote has been a pain in my ass lately, or quote, he's been killing me lately.

0 (18m 10s):
What's your sense of where Joe Biden is right now, both the pressure he's under and the ways in which his mind may have changed or be changing as this thing continues, this conflict? Well,

10 (18m 22s):
I don't sit in the White House, but the one thing that Joe Biden has never done is put restrictions on the weapons that he's prepared to send Israel. At the same time, he has wanted greater restraint in the way Israel conducts its operations. Has done a lot to try and get more humanitarian aid into try and convince Israelis to think about the civilian population. This comes in part from America's own experience of counterinsurgency in Iraq and Afghanistan. Hmm. Where it, you know, America learned the hard way that sheer military power is not enough. You need a political dimension. And he is tried hard to get this Israeli to think about the day after. The trouble is that the day after he sees and that Netanyahu sees are very different.

10 (19m 7s):
Joe Biden wants a path that ultimately leads to Palestinian state living side by side with Israel,

12 (19m 12s):
With the Israeli security guaranteed and Palestinian aspirations for their own state fulfilled. I say this as a long lifelong support of Israel. That's the only path that guarantees Israel's security for the long term.

10 (19m 26s):
Bi Netanyahu will hear nothing of it because he says a Palestinian state will merely create another terrorist state on our borders this time of the West Bank.

15 (19m 37s):
In

16 (19m 37s):
Any future arrangement, Israel needs security control over all territory west of the Jordan. I tell this truth to our American friends, the Prime Minister needs to be capable of saying no to our friends, saying no when necessary, and saying yes when possible.

10 (19m 53s):
So they disagree fundamentally about where they want to go, although they're still more or less in lockstep on the current aims of the war. But even here you're seeing some parching of the way. So for example, the Americans say the aim is to ensure Hamas can never do October the seventh again, which is not quite the same as what Bibi Netanyahu says, which is total victory in the destruction of Hamas. And I think that implies a realization on the American side that something will remain of Hamas even as a political idea or as a religious movement. You're not going to be able to eradicate that. And Netanyahu seems to want a much more maximalist aim.

10 (20m 36s):
And then there are the kind of repercussions for America's position in the Middle East. So you're seeing an escalating and worsening second front with the, so-called axis of resistance. These are the Iranian groups sponsored by Iran in Lebanon, in Iraq and Syria and Yemen. And where America has now taken, you know, three fatalities under attack has retaliated. And there is a worry that the more this goes on, the worse it will get and the harder it will be to bottle up again. Hmm. So for all those reasons, you're seeing tension between the two leaders. And one of the things that really seems to have hurt Netanyahu is a move to impose sanctions on a small number of settlers deemed violent in the West Bank.

17 (21m 26s):
Four settlers facing financial sanctions and visa bans from the us

10 (21m 29s):
Which is really a sort of warning shot. It's going after not Netanyahu himself, but after his right wing coalition. And to some extent after Netanyahu's base among settlers. And this is a move that's been followed by Europeans. France took similar measures, Britain has done the same. And I think there's a worry that this is going to start to exert real pressure on the settler movement or the, certainly the more extreme fringe of it.

0 (21m 56s):
Benjamin Netanyahu is also under pressure from many sides. And at the moment he's speaking, he's warning of a ground invasion in Rafah. We talked to a journalist there earlier and she says people there are expecting that. Is that changing diplomatic efforts at all?

10 (22m 14s):
I think it's adding urgency to the effort to try and wind down the war, if not stop it and then try to get into diplomatic process that leads to wider settlement. But it it, you know, Netanyahu has a consideration. The Israeli public has moved to the right for all the demonstrations that you're seeing on the streets of Israel. It is not a demand for peace. Now of the kind that was seen after the Lebanon war in 1982. The belief that peace with Palestinians is possible has been greatly eroded since the Oslo accords of 93 for a number of reasons, not least of which is the second Intifada of the two thousands, and now October the seventh.

10 (22m 58s):
So though there's urgency to get there, it's, I think it's just much harder to do it. And there's also mistrust on the Palestinian side of the Israelis, the weakness and discrediting of Abbu Mazen. This is Maba, the Palestinian leader in the West Bank who's now in the 18th and 19th year of what is supposed to be a four year term. And there's of course the tragedy of what's happening in Gaza itself.

0 (23m 25s):
Is anyone at this point speaking with any level of specificity about what comes after this war? Is anyone talking about how Gaza is rebuilt and who rebuilds it?

10 (23m 37s):
Y yes, but it is in the middle distance rather than in the, you know, within reach. Mm. Nobody wants to rebuild stuff that's going to, to get bombed again. So the Arabs are saying we will do humanitarian help, but we will not do reconstruction until there is a full cessation of this conflict. And there is a real path towards a deal that includes a Palestinian state. So the promises there, but it's not going to be acted upon until we get much greater clarity.

0 (24m 10s):
Let me ask you a last very big picture diplomatic question if I can. Before ten seven, Israel was normalizing relations with neighboring Arab countries. Is there any hope of that resuming at any point in the near future?

10 (24m 26s):
You would've thought not just because emotions are so fired up at the moment and the profound lack of trust, but going around with the Americans in the Middle East, there is this kind of surprising sense that Sadi Arabia, in particular, the Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman, really wants to settle this matter and that he's willing to do big things if he gets Israelis to move on Palestinian statehood. And those big things would include recognition of Israel, peaceful diplomatic relations, but seemingly also some kind of Arab guarantee to Israel to try and offer reassurance that it will be safe in future.

10 (25m 13s):
What is included in those secur guarantees is unclear, but it seems to be formalizing some of the things that happen. Intelligence sharing, military exercises, joint air defenses, and so on. But you know, that's kind of, you know, the 10th step. They need to get onto the first step, which is stopping the fighting. No Arab leader can move until the fighting stops and the human misery ends. And then you need to get into a ceasefire and then you need to get to an Israeli commitment for Palestinian statehood.

0 (25m 48s):
That was Anton LaGuardia diplomatic editor of Leading magazine, the Economist. Our thanks as well to Hamed of Al Jazeera English. Today's episode was produced by Isha Artsy and edited by Amman El Sadi. It was fact checked by Kim Eggleston and Laura Bullard. And David Herman is our engineer. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.