2 (0s):
Hey, what time is it?

1 (2s):
It's the financial times in that support for the show today comes from the financial times who's 2020 election coverage might be the best reporting that you are not reading right now, or maybe you are reading it in which case you can like skip ahead 15 seconds and and be done with this. The financial times is taking a look at this election from all of the angles forecasting how different results would change America's response to the health and economic emergencies wrought by the pandemic to read more about the election and a lot of of other things too. You should be reading about visit ft.com New agenda today. If one of the hardest things to figure out these days is what to watch next.

1 (42s):
First of all congrats second of all, you should check out HBO Max discover something new to watch on HBO Max like Lovecraft country the new HBO series from Jordan Peele Micha green and JJ Abrams, that's got everyone buzzing plus HB o-- Max is the only place you'll find new binge worthy Max Originals like Selena, Gomez's new cooking show. You heard that right? Selena Gomez's learning to cook from Of the world's best chefs. No less find your next favourite all in one place on HBO Max start streaming today download the app or visit HBO Max.com to start your free trial.

1 (1m 33s):
The fight to fill Ruth Bader ginsburg's vacant seat on the Supreme Court began approximately a couple of hours after we got the news that she passed. It's now been a couple of days Ian milhiser you cover the Supreme Court for box, where do things stand now? So in the most superficial way things are very ordinary. Airy right. Now. There's a vacancy on the Supreme Court the president plans to nominate someone there's a senate that's controlled by the same party. The Senate is likely to confirm that person. They'll probably be a hearing and so if you don't know anything about what has happened in the last four years this could feel very

2 (2m 11s):
normal.

1 (2m 15s):
Of course, it's not normal. And the reason why it's not normal is that there's an election coming up and four years ago. The Republican party was adamant. Absolutely adamant that there could not be a supreme court vacancy filled in an election year the American people are perfectly capable of having their say there's a On this issue. So let's give them a voice. let the American people decide the Senate will appropriately revisit the matter when it considers the qualifications of the nominee the next president nominates, whoever that might be right and of course the same Republican led the Senate then who leads the Senate now, his name is Mitch McConnell, and he would not give Barack Obama an up or down vote on Merrick Garland in 2016 when Justice Antonin Scalia passed but he seems happy to call a vote a few weeks away from the selection.

1 (3m 24s):
What is he saying about the you know hypocrisy I mean to the extent that they tried to justify it at all President Obama was asking Senate Republicans or an unusual favor. Better than last been granted nearly a hundred and thirty years before them. But voters had explicitly elected our majority to check and balance the end of his presidency. So we stuck with the basic Norm part of the mess that they have created for themselves is if it for years ago when Justice Scalia died and President Obama named a replacement if McConnell have just been honest then and just said hey, we don't like you Barack.

1 (4m 6s):
We'd rather have Donald Trump pick the nominee and we've got the votes. So let me give you both middle fingers. Well, I like The reason he's in a bind this time to the extent that he is in abide is because he told an obvious lie for years ago. And you know to what extent is he in a bind does he have enough of the party with him? I know people were holding out for MIT, but now it looks like that's not gonna work. I know he doesn't have Senator Collins from Maine and senator murkowski from Alaska. That's to how many does he need? So Democrats need to flip for Republican Senators have a chance of blocking this nomination.

1 (4m 47s):
There's only one way for us to have some hope of coming together again trusting each other again lowing it lower. The temperature moving forward and that is for for brave Senate Republicans to commit to rejecting any nominee until the next president is installed. It's very hard for Democrats to count to four. I mean, maybe it will happen. But when you look at the Senate it is a mix of there's some people who are running for re-election, but there are probably more concerned about the right wing and and and angering their base than they are with what Democrats are saying.

1 (5m 28s):
You've got a few retiring Senators, you know, some people originally fixated on Lamar Alexander who's retiring as a possible flippable vote Alexander, you know, the statements that he's made suggest that he's going to back McConnell's play. So, you know, I can't see into the future maybe a miracle happens and a fourth vote materializes, but it does not seem likely hmm. How long does this process? Take because we only have a few weeks here until the election, right so normally takes about two or three months to fill the Supreme Court vacancy. I suspect that this one is going to move much quicker. It's not entirely clear whether it's going to happen before or after the election, but I think a lot is going to depend on what individual Senators want to do.

1 (6m 14s):
There might be some senators and close races who would prefer not to cast this vote until after that race has happened so we don't know yet. Whether it's going to be before or after the election, so potentially Senators who might get voted out of office in November would still have a vote on the Supreme Court nominee. Yeah. No, this is one of the worst things about our constitution is that after a party has lost power it still holds onto it for a few months. And so we could see if we could have a situation where Joe Biden wins in a landslide. We're Democrats pick up five six seven seats in the Senate and yet The lame-duck Republican majority confirms a Justice even though Republicans have just been repudiated at the polls.

1 (7m 2s):
Hmm. So this will be potentially President Trump's third Supreme Court nomination in his one term. What do we know about how he picks judges? White dudes? I so far. It's been white dudes. I mean this time he said he's going to pick a woman because I actually like women much more than I like man. I have to say I will say this about Trump. So Trump has largely delegated whose judicial selection process to conservative groups like The Federalist society and two lawyers aligned with the Federalist Society. It's a very professional operation. And I mean, it picks very very right-wing individuals very ideological.

1 (7m 43s):
The operation that Picks Them is very efficient. It's made up of committed ideologue who are very good at identifying. Other committed ideologue to sit on the bench and because Trump has largely delegated this process too conservative operatives. It doesn't have the sort of Goonies in confidence that pretty much everything else in the Trump White House has and do you do we know who we might choose does he have a short list? So I think it's overwhelmingly likely to be a judge named Amy Coney Barrett. Amy Coney. Barrett is a favorite of the religious. Right.

1 (8m 23s):
She's been very outspoken against abortion. I don't think that the Core case that grows core holding that, you know women have a right to an abortion. I don't think that would change but I think the question of whether people can get very late term abortions. You know, how many restrictions can be put on clinics? I think that would change she's made some statements suggesting that she's likely to strike down the Affordable Care Act, you know, she would be an extraordinarily conservative judge or Justice. She's already a judge there. Are a handful of other names? I've seen floated Barbara lagoa on the eleventh circuit Allison rushing on the fourth circuit Allison rushing by the was a year below me in law school. She's 38 years old.

1 (9m 5s):
So like a lot of these people just don't have very much experience there. You know, I'd like the reason to pick someone like rushing is that she's young and she'd be there for 60 years. Yeah, but I think that it's overwhelmingly likely to be a me coneybear and she's also very young. She's 48 years old. So either way this Justice that Trump picks is going to be on the court for a long time what sort of shift might they create in sort of the current ideology of the Supreme Court. So Chief Justice John Roberts has been the center of power at the Supreme Court since Justice Kennedy's retirement in 2018, and Roberts is really really conservative. But he also believes in procedural regularity.

1 (9m 47s):
There's a certain institutionalist streak to him. He hates stupid arguments he hates Transparently partisan arguments. There was a case recently where Donald Trump tried to add or the Trump Administration tried to add a question to the census. The sole purpose of this question was to prevent immigrant communities for or at least discourage immigrant communities from participating in the census and skew the count towards White Republicans the Trump Administration lied about why they put that question on the census and John Roberts said you can't lie. Yeah, you know like it. At the very least you're not allowed to just make stuff up and there were four two centers in that case.

1 (10m 30s):
So if Barrett or some other Trump nominees confirmed there will probably be five people for the proposition that the president of the United States is allowed to lie and get away with

2 (10m 41s):
it.

1 (10m 44s):
It's not just there's a lot of individual cases like you know Obamacare is in Jeopardy, you're gonna see broader religious exemptions. It's that there's probably gonna B5 vote they'll just take transparently partisan sloppy poorly crafted arguments and say that's fine Democrats don't have the votes but there is maybe one thing they can do more with Ian

2 (11m 16s):
after a break.

1 (11m 35s):
Consumers for safe CBD wants to know what's in your CBD in a recent report to Congress the FDA found that a sampling of CBD products. They tested were mislabeled some of them contains more than 120 percent of the CBD amount listed and nearly 20 products contained th see the ingredient that can cause psychoactive effects as well consumers for safe. CBD is calling on the FDA to regulate the CBD Market to protect consumers from To harms posed by untested products though. The FDA has issued warnings. This has not deterred some vendors for making sweeping Health claims about their products ability to treat a wide range of serious medical conditions.

1 (12m 19s):
Remember just because CBD products are on grocery store shelves does not mean they're risk-free be smart and stay healthy learn more about consumers for safe CBD at for safe. CBD dot-org. That's the number four. Or sa Fe CBD dot o-- r-- g-- Google's free tools are designed to help support millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working with Google tools. Small businesses are staying connected to their customers by updating their business hours switching to curbside pickup activating online booking and more and if you want to support them, there are ways to help whether you're searching for restaurants salons bookstores Jim's boutiques or Other business near you show your support by ordering takeout writing a review buying a gift card or making a donation all With a Little Help from Google.

1 (13m 22s):
And it seems to me like Republicans are maybe just a little bit better at playing this game. They managed to you know, never even take a vote on Merrick Garland a moderate that President Obama chose and here they are after the death of Ruth Bader Ginsburg a liberal one could say they are not even wasting an hour or two to get on with this fight to replace her do Democrats have any leverage? Do they have He play here. Well first I want to push back a bit against the premise of your question great, which is that the problem isn't that Democrats are bad at this. The problem is that the constitution is rigged against democracy. And and I mean, I think it's important to understand like we have a president who wasn't elected.

1 (14m 7s):
He lost the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes when Merrick Garland was nominated the Democratic minority represented tens of Has more people than the Republican majority it's because of malapportionment that Republicans control the majority and now the Democratic minority represents about 15 million more people than the Republican majority. So if we lived in a proper democracy, you know, if the results of our election reflected the preferences of the American people a more representative democracy exactly we Have a probably a 6 to 3 liberal court right now.

1 (14m 52s):
Hillary Clinton would be president and we would be talking about which liberal judge Hillary Clinton was about to nominate to the Supreme Court if we lived in a proper democracy, but we live in a less representative democracy. So in this constitutional republic, we got do Democrats have a play or is this just a done deal? So they do have a play. It's a play that probably only works if they win. In a landslide if they win in this election in a landslide they win in November in a landslide. That's correct. So the Constitution says that there has to be a supreme court. It doesn't set the number of seats on that Supreme Court but maybe 14 or 13 or 12.

1 (15m 35s):
The number of seats has been as few as five in the past. It's been as many as 10 in the past but may be the only night. So if Trump's nominee is confirmed. If they win a sufficiently large majority, they'd have to Nuke the filibuster to do it, but they could pass a law immediately saying that the number of seats on the Supreme Court shall be 13 or 15 or whatever number they want and then President Biden could immediately nominate people to fill those seats and then the Senate could confirm them. Wait a sec and Ian are you talking about court packing? I am talking about court packing. I came by a process of elimination.

1 (16m 16s):
So the conclusion that show short of amendment the only method which was clearly constitutional was to infuse new blood into all our court didn't have TR try this one's and the historical perspective on this is like FDR was so crazy. He tried to pack the cord there is nothing novel or radical about this idea. It is a risky play. So FDR tried Court packing Ami paper posted in 1937 after the Supreme. Or it had been striking down a lot of New Deal proposals and it did not go well for him like a lawyer like all Americans.

1 (16m 57s):
I regret the necessity of this controversy. A lot of people view this a lot of historians view this as the moment that shattered his coalition. Now that said I think there's a lot of things about this moment that are different. So one thing that's different is that there was a very reactionary Supreme Court in the 1930s that FDR had to deal with but every Justice got their fair and square let you know there was no allegation that the Republican Party had made up some rule to block a democratic nominee and then had a strategically abandoned that rule when it no longer benefited them like everyone on the court in the 1930s.

1 (17m 39s):
Had gotten there through a fair normal process. The other difference is that FDR's Coalition already had a lot of hidden fractures in it. There were Southern Democrats who were much more committed to segregation than they were to the New Deal. They're actually Northern and especially Northwestern Republicans who supported the New Deal programs, but didn't have any particular wall of of FDR and were afraid of him consolidating too much. Each power. So it was easier for a hammer to shatter that Coalition. Whereas now I think Democrats are more united and if they had a sufficient majority of put to push through a court packing bill, I think that a lot of them are likely to hold together here.

1 (18m 26s):
Hmm Court packing though. It's come to this. Yeah. I mean, this is something that was completely off the table a week ago, but I think the thing to understand here is that Democrats are in Morning, they are sad they are pissed but I think it's also important to him. Remember who Ruth Bader Ginsburg is if you had asked me six months ago who are the two most revered people amongst Elite Democrats in Washington. I would have said John Lewis civil rights leader. John Lewis often called the conscience of the Congress by his colleagues leaves behind a life long Legacy of protecting human rights and securing civil liberties and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.

1 (19m 9s):
You know, these are two people who did more than anyone who was alive your least who was alive six months ago to achieve the promise of equality in this nation and the trauma of having this President get to replace Ruth Bader Ginsburg under these circumstances where we're coming up on an election and the Merrick Garland thing happened just four years ago. I think that might be enough to get Democrats to say enough is enough. We're going to play hardball. We're going to play as hard as we need to play to win. And so, you know, I don't know if every Democrat will sign on to court packing but if Democrats win a big big victory, I think that there could be a majority in both houses for it.

1 (19m 57s):
Well Chuck Schumer's the Senate minority leader. What does he think about it? Um, you know, I haven't seen an explicit statement from Chuck Schumer beyond that all options are on the table. Most Democrats are trying very very hard to say that they're not taking anything off the table, but they're not committing to any specific play forward. The only Senate Democrat that I've seen explicitly come out for court packing is Senator Ed Markey from Massachusetts. So not looking terribly

2 (20m 25s):
likely. I mean

1 (20m 28s):
it depends, you know the answer to this is that I think everything depends on the size of the democratic majority if there's a 54 55 56 Senator majority then I think Democrats could very well have the votes to do this if there's a fifty one seat majority. I think it's very

2 (20m 48s):
unlikely. Is it worth asking? You

1 (20m 52s):
know what Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg would have wanted. Stood here. I know we talked about on our previous show that her granddaughter said that she would have liked that, you know, the next president appoint her replacement. But what would she have thought of something like Court packing she has in the past spoken out against it. I think that was a bad idea when President Franklin Delano Roosevelt tried to pack the

2 (21m 17s):
court.

1 (21m 23s):
I don't think it is an ideal outcome. If the court is packed. I think it diminishes the legitimacy of the court. I think that Republicans are likely to retaliate with more Court packing if they get the chance and it just winds up destroying the Supreme Court's ability to you know have any kind of moral force in this country the primary benefit of Court packing may come from the threat if Democrats can Credibly cell Republicans on the idea that yes, we will pack the court. If you fill this vacancy with the Trump appointee, then I think it's more likely that you get for Republican Senators to say, you know, what like, we've already got a five Justice majority, and that's pretty good.

1 (22m 9s):
Do we really want to risk losing that? All right. I guess we'll have to wait and see. Thank you. We appreciate it. Thank you. Ian milhiser has been writing a lot about what comes next for the Supreme Court. You can find his work at box.com. I'm Sean Rama's from its today explained. This is the sound of a busy advertising marketing and Technology event in 2019.

1 (22m 55s):
You know where people used to meet in real life and where people actually had to wear trousers in order to conduct meetings. Whoops. It was here that your business Heroes would predict the future. This is marketing for the sake of better marketing until suddenly it all stopped. But now we're back come and learn about advertising week 2020 a brand new virtual event for the advertising marketing and Technology World. We're giving Vox listeners a 20% discount on tickets with the code Vox 2020. So head over to Virtual dot advertising week.com to learn more.

1 (23m 37s):
Hi, I'm Avery troubleman and I'm the new host of the cut podcast from New York Magazine and the VOX media podcast Network. Every Wednesday the cut editorial team and I will explore surprising provocative ideas about style self culture and Power in our first episode. We're looking at what it means to be optimistic in 2020. You can listen And subscribe to the cut now on Apple podcast or wherever you listen.