0 (1s):
It's today explained. I'm Sean Ramas firm. And

1 (3s):
I'm Noel King. Yesterday a congressman from Florida and a senator from Connecticut introduced a gun violence prevention bill

0 (10s):
That congressman has a long history on gun control issues. Before he moved to DC he was marched for our lives, first ever national organizing director. And

2 (20s):
A little over six minutes, 17 of our friends were taken from us. 15 were injured and everyone, absolutely everyone in the Douglas community was forever altered.

1 (30s):
Now, five years ago, tomorrow, March for Our Lives took over Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington DC

0 (36s):
On the show today, democratic representative Maxwell Frost and his friend David Hogg, co-founder of March for Our Lives, tell us what their movement has accomplished in five years. They say it's a long list

1 (48s):
And they're gonna tell us what's on Gen Z's agenda in Washington. Two Gen Z's will tell two old millennials, what's up?

0 (55s):
Oh no. Are we the old millennials?

1 (57s):
We are.

4 (1m 0s):
There's a new TV show out called Swarm. The lead character is this fan obsessed with the pop star who has an uncanny likeness to Beyonce. This fan becomes a serial killer and she's black.

5 (1m 14s):
I'm so tired of seeing black women on TV play therapists and lawyers and doctors and people who just like have their shit together. We can be serial killers too

4 (1m 25s):
Swarm and what black women get to be on screen this week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast.

6 (1m 44s):
I am Maxwell Frost Congressman representing Florida's senate congressional district. I'm David Hogg, a co-founder of March for Our Lives and a Harvard student.

1 (1m 53s):
How do you two know each other? When did you meet

6 (1m 56s):
Maxwell and I first met, it was actually the day that Bernie Sanders had a heart attack. Hmm. Like the night before. Yeah. And I was actually working for the senator on the road on his advance team. So out of nowhere my day became completely free due to very unfortunate circumstances. And so I came to the event and I was just kind of there all day.

0 (2m 14s):
You guys are in this

7 (2m 15s):
Room together with us today because there's an anniversary this week.

0 (2m 19s):
How are you

7 (2m 19s):
Feeling right now about this anniversary, the five year anniversary of the March for Our Lives?

6 (2m 24s):
Complicated. I wouldn't say that I'm always hopeful by any means, considering the what happens every day in this country at this issue. But I also am not entirely pessimistic either because how? How could you be? When we were a group of high school students that started out five years ago, who many people said would never do anything, would never amount to anything, was just a temporary moment. But now I'm sitting in this room with you all five years later with the first member of Congress from our organization to be elected as the youngest member of Congress. It permeated our culture and it created the conditions where, yes, there were people out

8 (2m 59s):
Registering people to vote, which was important, but even more than that, people were going to register to vote on their own. And that's where you have the staggering numbers that you want and youth vote and vote right? You. You wanna organize on the ground, but you want a movement that permeates the culture, bridges the gap between cool and consciousness, and builds an environment where people want do it because it's the thing to do or it's cooler, whatever. And that's really what March for Our Lives did, especially that whole year. Like it was cool to go to the march. I remember going to mine and seeing a ton of people I hadn't seen in a long time, and they were like, yeah, I just felt like I had to be here. Like it's the moment. And that's why I always say the way, you know the strength of a movement, it's what they're doing when no one gives a <unk> when it's not in the news, when no one cares.

8 (3m 41s):
Because when it is in the news and people care the way you organize the infrastructure you built, that's where it matters. And so that's what we see Marshal is doing today, is they're building that infrastructure. Because unfortunately there is a cycle with gun violence, especially in this country. There's a shooting that happens, there's a vigil, there's a press conference, it's in the news for a couple cycles depending on what it is. And then it seems to die down from the national limelight, but it doesn't die down for the families, it doesn't die down for the communities, it doesn't die down. For the activists and organizers who continue to work year round,

1 (4m 14s):
What was the objective five years ago? I mean, you have, as you say, millions of young people out in the streets, but at that point you also need them to do something. What was it you were trying to get out of this moment?

6 (4m 25s):
I think it was about showing physically how big the support is for this. Cuz we know the vast majority of Americans support things like background checks, support things like red flag laws, but there's a tiny minority that shows up at these state legislatures and other places that make these laws that is so powerful. And by showing up there physically, I think we did a couple things. One, it enabled us to help register voters. Two, it helps set the tone for a generation and a cultural shift in that generation to say, this is who we are. You know, for the most part, like this is what we stand for, is making sure that kids are safe in their communities and in their schools. And it's not just about talking about mass shootings and what happened in Parkland. And I think the last thing that it helped do in, in hindsight, I don't know how much of this was us consciously thinking it at the time, but I think one of the most important things the marches have done is offer survivors' solidarity.

6 (5m 17s):
Hmm. And knowing that they're not alone. I think that's one of the really hard things about this is survivors because of the guilt that they feel puts so much pressure on themselves that they have to solve this. That it crushes the movement because those people end up not being able to take care of themselves and they end up feeling crushed. When you're there with your friends and your allies though, and you make new friends, you know that you're not alone and you know that you can have the permission to step back when you need to to rest. And it's not relying on any single one of us. You know, I, I think a lot of it was just we wanted to show that we were mad as hell and get out there and, and show these elected officials that, like they say, a network, bye

9 (5m 53s):
Ms. Mad as hell. Oh, I'm not gonna take this anymore.

6 (5m 56s):
And just praise a, a lot of passion and and righteous indignation for our generation. Yeah,

8 (6m 1s):
A hundred percent. The direct action, the march was the catalyst for everything that came after it. And I'm very passionate about this because I'm a, I'm a musician. I come from like music and event world. And I truly believe that events play a critical role in movements and culture. Everything. And that's what you saw at March for Our Lives. It was a visual representation. It was a feeling when you were there. It was a feeling of not being there and seeing it online. And all of that culminated to a place where you had the highest youth there to turnout in the history of our midterms in 2018. And

1 (6m 32s):
You have something else March for Our Lives sent me and Sean this very tantalizing fact about the movement a couple days ago, which is that this movement has won the passage of 250 plus gun laws since it began. Woo. That's an extraordinary number. What, what are those laws like? Where would we see them out in the wild

6 (6m 49s):
Immediately after what happened in Parkland. We had many adults coming to us and saying, you know, it's great you guys care, but you're kids. This is Florida, you're not gonna change anything. But one of the laws that we did pass after Parkland was a thing called an extremist protection order or a red flag law. Yeah. That enables you to disarm somebody that is a risk to themselves or others. In an instance where this was actually used was for my own mom, whereas somebody threatened to kill my mom and sent her a death threat that said, F with the nra and you'll be do doa. Hmm. We used the law that we passed after Parkland to disarm that individual that lived, I think only like 20 minutes away from us. And that law has now been used, at least last I checked, I think it was around 9,000 times.

8 (7m 30s):
Yeah. That was like last year. So it's probably even

6 (7m 32s):
More so it's, it's been used that many times. And you know, there's a lot of people, the detractors out there say, well, you know, gun laws don't work. But the reality is no law is perfect. I will fully admit that. But you know, that law may have helped prevent me from having to bury my own mom.

7 (7m 46s):
How do you go about taking credit for 250 laws when, you know, there's been movements that have popped up after other mass shootings? So when there's been this preexisting movement for decades,

6 (7m 57s):
I would say that we were part of it in helping to reignite a movement that was already there before us in the first place. Especially movement pioneered by black women in places like Jamaica Queens in New York City, like Erica Fort

10 (8m 9s):
Before I was 30 years old, I was involved in over 20 mass shootings. The only thing, they weren't coal mass set, they would just call shootings in the hood.

6 (8m 24s):
I think that's part of the change that March for our Lives. I would like to think help brought, which is that from really the beginning when we started this work, it was about making sure it's not just about Parkland, it's not just about Sandy Hook or any community that goes through just mass shootings. It's about communities that go through all forms of gun violence. And not speaking for them, but making sure that people understand that they always have been in this conversation and they have to be part of the conversation. And it can't just be about how do we stop gun violence inside of schools.

7 (8m 52s):
I was out there five years ago in DC and I don't think I've ever felt such like a palpable potential for change at a, at a protest like that. And the list of accomplishments is long, but paradoxically so is the list of mass shootings every year already this year. How do you think of these two lists alongside each other?

6 (9m 16s):
It is depressing. I will admit that obviously it is very hard and depressing to know that these things are continuing to happen. But I think it also highlights the need for urgent federal action, not just in the form of by President Biden taking as many actions as he can as an executive to enforce gun laws better, to make sure that ATF and other agencies have the resources that they need to enforce the laws that we have on the books better. I mean, ATF is basically the size of my high school in terms of the number of people that work there.

1 (9m 42s):
And Representative Rust, I hear that you're getting ready to introduce your first piece of legislation. You're smiling, you're drumming. Yes. Can you tell us

8 (9m 49s):
What's in it? Yeah, so we're releasing piece of legislation that's by camera introduce in both the Senate and the House with senator Chris Murphy, who I've known for a long time from my work going to the Sandy Hook vigils and everything. And this is a piece of legislation that's pretty simple. What it does is it creates a federal office of gun violence prevention. And this is really important for many different reasons. Number one, the federal government does not have a coordinated approach to ending gun violence. And so what this would do is have a coordinating office department that works at, works with, you know, dhs, atf, hhs, all these different agencies to provide a coordinated response to ending gun violence that's both preventative and reactionary and looks at the root causes and provides data for members of Congress.

8 (10m 38s):
So that way, you know, most of the data and research that comes from this issue does not come from our government. It comes from outside organizations, third party organizations, nonprofits, and it, that's important work. But for an issue that takes a hundred lives a day for an issue where in this country right now, if you are under the age of 18 and you were to die, God forbid, the most likely reason would be because you were shot to death. In this country right now, the leading cause of death for children is gun violence. And so this would be a federal coordinated approach to ending gun violence, looking at the causes, providing real data after these warble situations happen. So that way members of Congress, state legislatures, municipal governments, have real data from the government so that way they can act upon it.

7 (11m 20s):
Do you have any idea how this is gonna land?

8 (11m 23s):
I think we have a really good opportunity to get, to get this done, whether it's through Congress or through executive action. Cause the president can also create the office himself, but Congress can also do it. And so we're hoping that one of the two will end up happening. But I'll tell you, I've had conversations with people from many different districts across the country, people from very rural areas to very urban areas. And folks think this is a really good idea, right? It's not a, this isn't about policy as it is about having an entity that is there, that is working for the people to end gun violence. And it also shows that the federal government is serious about ending this issue.

0 (11m 59s):
Have you had a conversation with the president yet

8 (12m 1s):
About it? We've been talking with the president about it for a few years. The movement has been, and so really this isn't like an idea, I just woke up and had, this has really been an ask from the movement for many years now. And so, you know, we're we're hoping that, you know, this is a, a next step, right? In getting an office of Gun Violence prevention,

0 (12m 24s):
That was Maxwell Frost and David Hogg, the formers, the youngest representative in Congress, the ladders of founder of March for Our Lives and a senior at Harvard.

1 (12m 33s):
And when we're back, these two members of Gen Z are going to tell us how they feel about the 80 year old silent generation president.

0 (12m 41s):
Is he that old?

3 (12m 42s):
He is.

1 (12m 44s):
Wait, did you, you wrote that He's 80

0 (12m 48s):
Silent generation. I forgot. Oh my God.

11 (12m 56s):
Here's a question. Can science tell us what makes something funny?

12 (13m 2s):
Girl science? Where have you been?

11 (13m 5s):
Comedians like Otoko, tka wanna know

12 (13m 7s):
We've been just flailing around streaming in the streets.

11 (13m 14s):
And scientists best answer might actually come from Skittles,

13 (13m 18s):
The jellybean or the, the

14 (13m 19s):
Skittles one, the Skittle

13 (13m 20s):
Study. I'm supposed to offer you these Skittles. Would you like these Skittles? There's pretty good evidence that laughter is a form of communication. So then the question becomes, well what does it communicate

11 (13m 35s):
This week on unexplainable the science of humor? Follow unexplainable wherever you listen for new episodes every Wednesday.

14 (13m 44s):
So if this makes the podcast, people are gonna be listening and be like, this is not funny at all.

15 (13m 49s):
Well folks, here we are, former president Donald Trump appears on the brink of being indicted by a Manhattan grand jury. I'm Preet Barara, the former US attorney in Manhattan. My podcast, stay tuned, is about law, justice, power and democracy. This week I discussed the latest news with a group of former federal prosecutors who understand how the justice system really works. Joyce Vance, Barb McQuaid and Ellie Hoick. We discussed the questions on everyone's mind, like,

16 (14m 20s):
Can you directly tie Donald Trump to the way these payments were booked and lawed

17 (14m 25s):
Are prosecutors considering additional defendants or additional charges?

15 (14m 29s):
Is this the kind of conduct that merits a charge of a former president of the United States?

1 (14m 33s):
I think this is a serious crime PR and I think it's one that I would charge.

15 (14m 37s):
And where do we go from here?

17 (14m 39s):
The presidency from prison, right? I mean add to the crazy.

15 (14m 43s):
Add to the crazy to listen. Just search. Stay tuned wherever you get your podcasts, new episodes drop every Thursday.

18 (14m 52s):
Stay tuned. You're listening to today explains this is, is it today? Explain or cha explains. Explain duck. Explain duck.

6 (15m 5s):
So Maxwell, is this your first time doing as m r?

8 (15m 8s):
Yes.

6 (15m 13s):
Congressional am smr. Yes. Brought to you

8 (15m 15s):
By congressional breathing.

7 (15m 21s):
Regrettably, we are already talking about the 2024 presidential election in this country. Oh no, you two both represent a certain cohort that we're interested in on this show. What else is on Gen Z's agenda?

8 (15m 35s):
This is an interesting question I get asked a lot and I wonder why.

18 (15m 40s):
No, no.

8 (15m 42s):
I don't think Gen Z cares about different values or issues than Mo than other Americans, right? You know, if you were to ask people of past generations about moments that we're defining for their generation, no matter who they are, you hear about the moon landing post nine 11 where the country came together for our generation. You asked them, you're gonna hear Parkland pulse, George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, death, death, death, trauma. It, it really changes the way a generation thinks about the issues and the impatience it brings because we want, we're we're kind of confused. Like why, why are we still dealing with these issues? And we wanna be a part of the solution. We're not here to play the blame game, but I, I think it's, you know, I think that changes the way we look at the issues.

8 (16m 24s):
And so what does Gen Z care about? I mean, I think we, we care about the existential climate crisis, right? That we're seeing the effects of, we care about ending gun violence because we see that young people are really at the front lines of this issue a lot of the time, especially when it comes to yes, mass shootings, but also unfortunately what many folks call daily gun violence. It's in a lot of our communities, especially black and brown communities that stem from underinvestment in our communities. Poverty in the economic status of a lot of our people. And then you get to another issue when we talk about wages, healthcare the standard of living. You know, I think the age of the single issue voter is kind of dying because young people really see things holistically.

8 (17m 4s):
They really care about everything because they know everything is connected.

6 (17m 8s):
And we also know from our, the polling that March for Our Lives has done and other organizations outside of us have done that. Gun violence is a leading issue for what, what animates us and makes us go out and vote for candidates. And it wasn't just in 2018 that we saw record youth voter turnout. And mind you, it wasn't 50 50 like it was for Bush and Gore for 18 to 29 year olds. It was very clearly in one direction, which I think is so important to highlight here. In the 2022 election, in your average congressional election, it was over plus 20 points for progressives for the 18 to 29 year old demographic. That means that we aren't canceling out our votes like we used to. We are very cl clearly voting for candidates that care about the issues that we care about

18 (17m 48s):
In order to enact

1 (17m 49s):
The agenda that you are talking about. A democrat needs to be president of this country right now. Two of the biggest threats to that happening in 2024 come from your home state, right? Former President Donald Trump, state of Florida, the free state of Florida, former President Donald Trump, a new emigre to your state and and Governor Ron DeSantis who Maxwell, you have accused of engaging in fascism.

8 (18m 10s):
I'm just defining number one, I think Ron DeSantis is the greatest democracy in this country right now.

7 (18m 16s):
Bigger than Trump.

8 (18m 17s):
Oh yeah. Way bigger than Trump. I think. I think DeSantis is worse than Trump. The reason why is I just encourage people to look at what's going on in Florida right now. And I know a lot of it's, it's, I've been thinking about why it hasn't been cutting nationally. I think it's because people just chalk it up to, that's Florida. You know, it's just a bunch of stuff going, you know, you know, it's just Florida, it's messed up and then you see the memes and everything. But it's real, right? I mean, this governor took New College of Florida, small liberal art, liberal arts college, less than a thousand students because it's more of a liberal arts college. You know, they don't wear shoes, right? Like it's a, it's a beautiful campus, it's a great place. He wants to make an example of them. And so he's, he's a abused his powers governor.

8 (18m 59s):
Completely took out the board of trustees, put a bunch of conservative lapdogs on it, they fired the president of the university, installed a new interim president who's the former Republican speaker of the house who's not qualified to be the president of university and changed the salary from $200,000 to $699,000 a year. And then the state allocated 15 million in like a few days to this university for institutional changes, which they're gonna use to make it more of a conservative university market to a lot more conservative areas to change the demographics of the, the demographic of the students. I say that to say that is not something that governors do.

8 (19m 38s):
He's using his power to close down businesses, attack teachers. I can't tell you the amount of teachers and folks I've spoken to in my district who are scared. There's this atmosphere of fear and not just in Orlando, but across the entire state because of what he's doing and he's effective in doing it and he's just trying things. And if it gets ruled unconstitutional, he tries something different. Imagine if someone like that had the federal government,

7 (20m 5s):
What does it say to you guys that this, this individual you d define as a fascist is exceedingly popular that a lot of old people are moving to Florida? Yeah,

8 (20m 14s):
That's what it says to me. Yeah. And also though, like, yeah, when you say popular, I mean numbers wise, what you were talking about in the state of Florida, right? And we have to also realize that a lot of these polls poll likely voters. So not the entire pop, you know, population of a state. I'm not saying, oh no, he's not super popular in the state of Florida. But there's a difference again between policy and politics. And when you have enough money and you know, when there's voids in democratic organizing in a state, you're able to shift the narrative. Even though most people would hear open care or most people would hear about the Permitless carry and over 70% of flirty and say, no, that's a stupid idea. We don't want that. But then a lot of the same people would say, yes, I wanna vote for DeSantis.

8 (20m 56s):
It's because he's effective at separating those two things.

6 (20m 60s):
And what's happening is Republicans are doubling down on their efforts to fuel voter suppression, to change who can vote to change who the voters are instead of changing their policies. And it's gonna backfire on them eventually when those demographics that they're relying on die out because they are inherently older and our generation comes in to start replacing them.

1 (21m 18s):
But Joe Biden does not represent, per se, your generation, if Joe Biden runs, again, this a man who's in this eighties, right? We're talking about age, we're talking about young progressives. Joe Biden is not a young progressive and young progressives have argued, he's not even that progressive. We are looking at a situation in which potentially the Democratic nominee is in his eighties. You are both in your twenties. Should Joe Biden run again? Or is it time for someone new, someone younger?

8 (21m 41s):
I always have the same answer to this because I truly believe this. Look, if the president wants to run again, which it seems like he does, I'm gonna support him. You know, when we talk about the word, like what does progressive even mean? I don't know. You know, everyone has a different definite, you know what I mean? But like the president is the most progressive president that we've had probably since fdr. Do I agree with him on everything? No, I, like I just said, I worked for Bernie Sanders in the primary. Right. You know, I, I I, you know, definitely to the left of the president, but I'm very pleasantly surprised. And when you talk with folks, a lot of people agree, agree with that. You know, you look at the ira, the Inflation Reduction Act, the most money our country's ever dedicated to fighting the climate crisis. Is it enough?

8 (22m 22s):
No. No, it's not. You probably just seen the new report that has even more staggering and alarming numbers that we have to cut emissions immediately so that way we can have a livable planet for future generations and for ourselves, you know, but you know, we're the, the president on gun violence. He just took this executive action on gun violence. He signed until all the Safer Communities Act, bipartisan Safer Communities Act. Is it everything that we need? End gun violence? No, but it's gonna save lives and behind every number, there's a human, there's a person. And so every bit of legislation that we can get, we're gonna take. But you, you look at something like Build Back better, the fact that the president put that forward, you know, free Uni, universal tuition free coll two year college for all of our people, free childcare for all of our people.

8 (23m 7s):
Like everything that was in a build back better really. I think if we were to pass it, Democrats would still have the house right now. And so I think we've seen a president that's really surprised me as a young progressive. Do we agree on everything? No, but I'll support him.

7 (23m 21s):
But do you think he could be pushing harder? When you see President Biden approving new oil drilling in Alaska, do you feel like you can come out and, and speak out against him? Or is the, is the race in 2024 too fragile to, to risk speaking ill of the sitting president?

8 (23m 38s):
Yeah, I mean, I think everything's a bit of a balance. I mean, I spoke out against the, the Willow Project, you know, a lot of times in life, life you have to have, you have to hold multiple truths, especially in politics. The, the president who signed the law, the most money ever going to defeating the climate crisis also approved a, a drilling project, which is, you know, gonna be really bad for our environment. Both things are true at the same time in our reality. And it's just something we have to hold. And now we figure out how do we move forward? Doesn't mean we don't work to hold 'em accountable. No, it does not mean that. Again, I talked about it and I talked about the fact that part of the reason Gen Z turned out is because of the president's, you know, bold vision on the climate crisis and ending it.

8 (24m 18s):
And so I was honest about that, but that's not to the detriment of 2024. It's to help us. Because in order for us to win, we're gonna continue to, you know, we, we need to turn out young people. And the way you turn out young people and really any, you know, marginalized community that never votes is by showing them that government works for them by legislating in a way and fighting for them that shows them that, wow, my vote actually matters.

6 (24m 45s):
I think there's two ways that you can look this, you can either look at it at what's going on in Florida as, oh my gosh, everything's turning back and we're losing, which is what they want us to believe. That there was absolutely nothing that we as a people can do to stand up for the, the founding principles of our country that granted the men who talked about them were very, very, very deeply flawed. But nonetheless, I still think that most of us agree on those principles of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. It means that all of us can succeed together because we all know and care about each other, not as Democrats or Republicans, but as Americans that want a better future for all of us, cuz we know the best is ahead and not behind us.

1 (25m 27s):
David Hog there, he co-founded March for Our Lives

0 (25m 31s):
And Maxwell Frost, the youngest member of Congress and a drummer,

1 (25m 37s):
Today's show was produced by S Petros and Victoria Chamberlain.

0 (25m 40s):
It was fact checked by Laura Bullard, mixed by Paul Robert Mosey and edited by Amina aad. Noel great to hang with you.

1 (25m 48s):
You wanna do it again sometimes?

0 (25m 49s):
Sure. Yeah, let's do it

3 (25m 50s):
Again.