2 (4s):
Boris Johnson is out kind of, he needs to be replaced. And now we know a bit more about our

1 (10s):
Options.

0 (11s):
The two figures are Rishi Sinek, the man who helped bring down Boris Johnson by resigning as chancellor, right on that, in those sort of dying days.

3 (21s):
Did I disagree with him frequently? Is he flawed? Yes. And so are the rest of us

0 (30s):
And Liz trust forest Johnson's foreign secretary who didn't resign and who stayed in her mind loyal to the end.

4 (40s):
The prime minister has my a hundred percent support

2 (44s):
The next prime minister of the United Kingdom ahead on today's plane.

5 (60s):
For over 20 years, Google has been helping protect Americans from cybersecurity threats from turning two step verification on by default for 150 million people, which adds an additional layer of account security with a single tap to protecting new sites and human rights organizations with project shield. Google is building advanced technologies that raise the bar for the entire industry and help make the whole internet safer for everyone. Learn more@safety.google.

6 (1m 29s):
Hey, I'm Sam Sanders and I'm hosting a new culture podcast. It's called into it from vulture and New York magazine each week on the show we get into the pop culture that we just can't stop thinking about like Beyonce. I mean, we'll talk about other things too, but let's be real. Beyonce is gonna be a big part of the show and that's the that on that into it. The weekly culture show from vulture with new episodes, every Thursday, subscribe, wherever you get your podcasts

1 (2m 6s):
Today is gonna be explained. See you

2 (2m 12s):
Every so often we hear today explained, reach out to Tom McTeague from the Atlantic to ask about Boris Johnson. Most recently we reached out at the beginning of the year when no one quite knew if Boris Johnson would last another day or another week in office. Here's what Tom had to say then.

0 (2m 31s):
So he goes from the guy who you quite liked breaking the rules, cuz he was breaking the rules to socket, to the Europeans, you know, and to stick up for the country. Suddenly he's breaking the rules that you are having to stick by. He's laughing at you now rather than at somebody else. And that's why I think it's suddenly flipped. That's the, kind of the, the sort of tragic story of Boris Johnson's political demise.

2 (2m 58s):
We reached back out to Tom to find out more about who might follow Boris Johnson. But also just to ask if that characterization you just heard was indeed what led to his recent and perhaps ultimate demise.

0 (3m 12s):
Yes, absolutely. Boris Johnson is the man, the agent of chaos who, who world into British politics chosen by the people to sweep away the kind of failures that had happened over the previous few years. But the same kind of agent of chaos just kept whirling in, in 10 down street causing scandal after scandal, after scandal. And eventually it was just too much. And the conservative members of parliament decided to get rid of him. That's Boris Johnson in a nutshell, an agent of chaos that span out of control.

2 (3m 50s):
Can we go through some of the scandals in, in order just to remind people what they were, I mean, starting with party gate, which feels almost quaint now that we're in this sort of do it yourself era of the pandemic, but this was about him breaking COVID restrictions, right?

0 (4m 7s):
That's absolutely right. Will

7 (4m 9s):
The prime minister tell the house whether there was a party in Downing street on the 13th of November?

8 (4m 15s):
No, but I'm sure that and whatever happened, the guidance was followed in. The rules were followed at all times.

9 (4m 22s):
He said to my colleague, Catherine West, that there had been no such parties. And clearly he knew there had, because he was there at

10 (4m 28s):
What the event lasted for a number of hours, there was excessive alcohol consumption by some individuals, one individual was sick. There was a minor altercation between two other individuals

0 (4m 38s):
At the heart of it. That was something that nobody else was allowed to do. Sometimes when I explain the, kind of this, the strength of the lockdown that Britain went through during the pandemic to Americans, it's always quite striking, you know, that we had some extraordinarily draconian rules that were introduced. You could only go out for an hour at a time at one point, and then you have the guy who's telling us, we can't do all of this literally going around, having drinks with his friends in number 10. So that's the sort of the source of the fury.

8 (5m 10s):
Firstly, I want to say, sorry. And I'm sorry for the things we simply didn't get. Right. And also, sorry for the way that this matter has been handled. Mr. Speaker, I get it and I will fix it. And I wanna say

2 (5m 29s):
He, he manages to survive that scandal and then finds himself in another one over doing up his apartment. Is that right?

0 (5m 38s):
He has an apartment in 10 dining street, all prime ministers get to use this apartment at the top of the building where they work. It's a little bit like, you know, the white house, they get a certain allowance to put their own tables and chairs in and change the wallpaper if they need to. And all of that kind of thing, just to keep it up to date, that's a reasonable system, but it wasn't enough for Boris Johnson. Even though Theresa May had only been prime minister for a little while and she'd put her own touch onto the apartment, decorating it in her own style. Boris Johnson comes along and he demands a complete remake of this and he lavages so much money on it that he can't pay it out of the official funds.

8 (6m 22s):
He should know that I paid for dining street refurbishment personally, Mr. Speaker,

0 (6m 28s):
This is Boris Johnson all over. It's not necessarily malicious. I don't think he's just extraordinarily bad with money. Boris Johnson has earned lots of money in the past, but he's not a wealthy man. He's not a businessman. And really he's had so many divorces and so many kids that he hasn't actually got that much money left. So when it turned out that he had to pay this extraordinary amount of money out of his own pocket to try and fund his own refurbishment of his apartment, that his, his wife wanted. He started looking around for people to fund it and he it, and that's when it became a bit dodgy

11 (7m 4s):
Bills for tens of thousands of pounds are paid for by government department then paid off by the conservative party and they were then paid off by Tory donor, Lord brown Lowe

0 (7m 15s):
When ethics people got involved in this and said, hang on, this smells really bad. You know, why is somebody giving you all this money to do up your apartment? What are they getting in return? All of these completely reasonable questions. Then the scandal started to build

11 (7m 30s):
Only when others get to hear about the secret payments. Does Boris Johnson get out his own checkbook to settle up the Rede bill?

0 (7m 39s):
It was a kind of completely ludicrous scandal. Again for Boris Johnson completely self-made didn't get him anywhere and cost him a fortune personally. And then you come to scandal three after that, which was the straw that broke the camel's back.

2 (7m 54s):
This is a story about a guy named pincher who may have been a groper if I got it correctly.

0 (8m 0s):
Yes, that's very well put Chris

12 (8m 2s):
Pincher, deputy chief whip, the man in charge of welfare for Tory MPS resigned from government last night in disgrace on Wednesday night, he had been here the Colton club where he allegedly groped two men.

0 (8m 15s):
And the problem was there have been previous allegations against this member of parliament. When people then went to Boris Johnson and said, why did you promote this man who had had previous allegations against him of impropriety Johnson said he didn't know about any of these previous allegations. Then a senior official in one of the government departments that Johnson used to run released a letter within

13 (8m 42s):
The last few minutes, we've just been handed a letter, which the former top civil servant at the foreign office has sent by email to the standards commissioner. And it relates to Chris

0 (8m 56s):
Pincher. It proved that he'd warned Boris Johnson about these previous allegations and Johnson had ignored them. Johnson then comes down and says, oh, I forgot that I knew about these allegations.

8 (9m 8s):
It was something that was only raised with me, very sly, but I wish okay. That we had, I in particular had acted

0 (9m 16s):
On it. That was it really that's. That's the final thing where members of parliament just felt, we are just being told lies by this guy. You know, we've gone through all of these previous scandals, we've gone onto the TV and onto the radio, defending him being told one thing, repeating that thing, and then finding out, you know, weeks or even hours later that it's not true. And they just, they just got sick of it. So he just about survived party gate. And then over this again, a pathetic stupid lie he gets caught and that's the end of him. And they just moved then on mass, the conservative MPEs to declare that they didn't have confidence in him and just became too much.

0 (9m 60s):
The tide swept him out of number 10.

2 (10m 2s):
It was rather dramatic. I mean, all of his ministers were resigning in, in this sort of waterfall,

14 (10m 9s):
Two unexpected high profile cabinet resignations first from the health Sage Jad and then from the chancellor Richie CACH, the Manny lives next door. Both of them attacked Boris Johnson's leadership as they quit

15 (10m 22s):
All day, it felt at times like every 10 minutes or so, conservative MPS were sending letters saying the prime minister should go, is it all over prime minutes

16 (10m 32s):
Going, going surely, nearly gone.

0 (10m 35s):
That's the beauty of the British system in that it's this unwritten constitution. So it's not like the American constitution where things are set and you can get rid of a, a president in this way. And his replacement will be this person and that person. And it's all kind of ordered a neat in Britain. It's very messy, but it can be brutally efficient. So the, a prime minister is only prime minister. If they can command a majority in the house of commons, if they can't command a majority in the house of commons, they're done. They're not the prime minister anymore.

2 (11m 12s):
I, I think if our, if our discussions about this man have taught us anything, Tom it's that he's got nine, maybe 10 lives. Do you think this is the last we've seen of Boris Johnson and British politics?

0 (11m 26s):
I really, I'm not sure because his famous last words now to the house of commons as prime minister, well

8 (11m 33s):
Has Lavita baby,

0 (11m 34s):
Which is obviously not to I'll be back essentially. I'll see you around. I'll see you another time. So he's saying that he's, he, he is clearly setting himself up. He's defending his position in, in, in his resignation speech. He sets out that, you know, know, I, my job was half done. I, I, I did what I said I was going to do. I had a mandate from the people. I had a mandate from the conservative party members and I've been removed because of, in his words, the herd mentality of members of parliament, who just kind of moved like sheep at one moment and took him out. But

8 (12m 13s):
As we've seen at Westminster, the herd instinct is powerful. When the herd moves, it

0 (12m 19s):
Moves so clearly he's setting himself up for, you know, at least keeping that option open in case the conservative party loses the next election under the new leader. And you can see it, right? You can see it right now. The conservative party loses and he stands there and says, you would not have lost. If you'd have kept me. You lost the faith. That was your mistake. We all look to the us and what's happening in the us, Donald Trump lost, but he still looks like he's got a very good chance of coming back. Boris Johnson hasn't even lost. So maybe that's gonna happen

17 (12m 52s):
What's

2 (12m 53s):
Or rather who comes next ahead on today, explained

DirecTV (12m 58s):
This episode is brought to you by direct TV stream. Direct TV stream brings you the live TV you love. That means you can stay up to the minute on 24 hour live news from entertainment to current events, wherever you are on the us, whether that's at home on your TV or streaming on the go and you get your favorite live sports. So you can catch this season's biggest games. Get the best of live TV with direct TV stream. Get your TV together@directtv.com.

18 (13m 27s):
This is a public service announcement from unexplainable, a YN one simple action connects you across species across millions of years of history. You are a Lama, an English bull terrier, a little kitty cat, a Tasmanian devil, because yawning is a secret superpower. You can change the temperature of your own brain. And if you're feeling distracted, a yawn might be just what you need. So stop stifling your yawns, oh God, open wide and yawn with pride.

18 (14m 10s):
Don't hog. All the yawning for yourself. I can't stop. I can't stop. Share your yawns with your family, with your friends, yawn at your teachers who just did that. Get your teachers yawning back at you. Start an infinite loop of yawns this week on unexplainable. Why we yawn and why you're probably yawning right now. Follow unexplainable, wherever you find podcasts today, today, explain,

2 (14m 43s):
Okay, Tom, for all those who are ignorant of how British politics works, what comes next? It, it does seem that that Boris Johnson will in fact leave number 10 in the coming months.

0 (14m 54s):
That's right. So Boris Johnson has resigned as the leader of the conservative party and he stays on as prime minister until the conservative party elects a new leader. That person is in control of conservative members of parliament. And therefore is in control of a majority of members of parliament. And therefore he, he or she becomes prime minister. They will go to the queen. The queen will ask them to form a government. And that is what they'll do. And Boris Johnson will disappear.

0 (15m 34s):
That will happen early in September when the winner of the conservative party leadership contest is announced.

2 (15m 41s):
And we recently found out who the two contenders are.

0 (15m 46s):
The two figures are Rishi, the man who helped bring down Boris Johnson by resigning as chancellor, right in that, in those sort of dying days.

3 (15m 55s):
Did I disagree with him frequently? Is he flawed? Yes. And so are the rest of us

0 (16m 4s):
And Liz trust, Boris Johnson's foreign secretary who didn't resign and stayed in her mind loyal to the end.

4 (16m 14s):
The prime minister has my a hundred percent

0 (16m 17s):
Support. So you've got already a clear divide there between those who thought Boris Johnson wasn't fit for the job. And this trust who did, and what you are getting is essentially a split between the left and the right of the party. Now it's quite ironic this, but Rishi sunk has now become the kind of standard bearer of the moderate and left of the party. The centrist candidate,

3 (16m 46s):
The most pressing economic priority for the new prime minister and the new government is to grip inflation. So I don't think the responsible thing to do right now is launch into some unfunded spree of borrowing and more debt.

0 (16m 59s):
Even though he is a Thatcherite right-winger in the traditional mold, who was a conservative, when he was about 16 writing letters, about how devastated he was that Tony Blair had won election. And he voted to leave the European union, despite all that, he now represents the kind of centrist candidate and Liz trust who used to be a liberal who wants supported a motion to abolish the monarchy who voted to remain in the European union is now the standard bearer of the right of the party. She is the tax cutting Reaganite Thatcherite pro Brexit sort of freedom, loving Brexit here on the right.

4 (17m 46s):
We have to recognize that we are in one of the worst global crises for a generation, the COVID crisis. And now is the time to think about how we do things differently. That's why I'm advocating tax

0 (17m 59s):
Cuts. So that is essentially the split. And that is gonna be the argument now between the two of them alongside Rishi Sunco, who is saying, we must control inflation first and then move to tax cuts versus Liz trust, who says, no, no, no, we need to cut tax now because people are struggling and we need to get growth going. And that is the argument that is, is now taking place. And the winner will take over the conservative party in September and become prime minister.

2 (18m 26s):
So it sounds like either way, you do have something of a continuation of Boris Johnson's politics, if not a more professional political version of it.

0 (18m 36s):
I think that's quite nicely put because a lot of their fundamentals will not really change. You know, all the candidates support Brexit, even if they didn't support it at the time, even the labor party, the opposition party is saying that it won't touch Brexit. Brexit has happened. Britain is not going back into the European union. We're not going back into Europe, single market and its customs union and all of that infrastructure of the European union that Britain left, none of that is happening. So within the conservative party, the consensus is in a way, even deeper than that Britain's place in the world. It's support for Ukraine, it's support for Brexit, it's support for tax cutting measures.

0 (19m 19s):
It's support for this concept called leveling up where, which is essentially to bring the north of England, that kind of industrial rust belt. If you like up up to the kind of same level of wealth as London, and it surrounds, you know, all of that is essentially the, the policies that all candidates will support, what you are having. I think fundamentally is tension within the conservative party between the 2019 Boris Johnson election victory, where he won in areas of the country that have traditionally labor strongholds. Now that is the, the, the sort of contradiction at the heart of this conservative party leadership election.

0 (20m 0s):
How do you maintain Boris Johnson's coalition of voters while doing something to win over these hardcore Tory members who want something quite different?

2 (20m 12s):
Is there a favorite in the race?

0 (20m 14s):
Yes, right now, Liz trust is actually the favorite over Rishi sunk. And that is really because she has adopted this more hard line conservative sort of Thatcherite position. What

4 (20m 26s):
We have to look at is the cost of illegal immigration, the cost to the United Kingdom, the cost of the individuals and their families who are suffering from the actions of these people, traffickers, that's the, that's the issue that we are seeking to deal with.

0 (20m 45s):
Whereas, and, and Rishi sunk is having to own all of the measures that he has taken since the pandemic to try and restore the public finances to some sanity

3 (20m 56s):
By 2024, the OBR currently expect inflation to be back under control, debt falling sustainably, and the economy

0 (21m 7s):
Growing, you know, and you look back and Britain just like the us spent an extraordinary amount of money propping up the economy when it shut it down during the pandemic, you know, it, it essentially bailed out all the businesses. It put workers on what's called, you know, furlough here where businesses could keep the workers employed on 80% of the salary and all of that would be paid for by the state. So for a long time, the state was paying most of the country to not work. And it is now trying to find a way to, to balance the books. And Rishi sunk was the man who had to do that.

0 (21m 48s):
Now, anybody who puts taxes up is essentially unpopular, right? That is the sort of like golden rule of politics. Nobody wants to be the person putting up taxes,

19 (21m 56s):
Read my lips,

20 (21m 59s):
No new

21 (22m 1s):
Taxes.

0 (22m 2s):
So you've got all of these pressures on the conservative party to balance the books, to pay people more. And really they just, something has to give. And Rishi sunk is the one that's getting hit with this. So he's got a bit of an uphill struggle to claw that back and win back support of the conservative party members. But don't write him off cuz he's a very slick, professional, smart operator who does also have a message, which is if you unleash tax cuts too early, you will only stoke inflation. And once inflation starts to build in interest rates will go up and they will hit homeowners.

0 (22m 43s):
And who are the, the fundamental Tory base in Britain, it's homeowners, middle class, middle aged home who do not wanna see their interest rates on their mortgage go up. So that is, that is an interesting challenge between the tour. But right now, trust is the favorite.

2 (22m 58s):
And either way, it's a continuation essentially of Boris Johnson's administration. What does Boris Johnson end up in the history of UK politics, a, a success or a failure? It sounds like there's no way anyone's taking back Brexit. And at the end of the day, he did pull that off,

0 (23m 17s):
Right? Yes. This is the challenge of trying to weigh up Boris Johnson. He, in some ways leaves a legacy that is more consequential on British politics than almost any previous prime minister, even that you're included because you can always cut taxes or raise taxes once the previous guys have been in, right? That's that's, that's how it works. You know, if that's your managers to shrink the size of the state, Tony black can come along and grow the size of the state. And so that's something that is a problem for all prime ministers. When they come to, when you come to weigh up their legacy for Boris Johnson, it's quite simple. He took Britain out of the European union and it's very, very difficult to go back.

0 (24m 1s):
And if Britain never goes back in, it's going back on in, on completely different terms to what it had before. It'll have to renegotiate everything. And that is a stark lasting legacy for his supporters. It's obviously a great thing for his opponents. It makes him the worst prime minister that we've had, you know, since the war. So that is the constant challenge. But what I think both sides will agree on to some extent is that however consequentially he is, He threw it away for such absurd reasons. So, so pathetic were the scandals. So, so of his own fault, nothing about policy, nothing about anything major, you know, he was lorded for his support of Ukraine.

0 (24m 49s):
He came through the pandemic, having nearly died himself in the pandemic with his popularity high because Britain had a good vaccine rollout that he, he got some credit for. He had all of these things and he threw it away for party gate for, you know, wallpaper gate for all of these absurd things that just revealed a kind of lazy character at the center of it. So you have to weigh up both of these things and that's why he's such a conf confusing figure to try and cover he's unlike all of the other prime ministers really in that regard,

2 (25m 32s):
Tom MCT staff writer at the Atlantic based in London, England, our episode today was produced by today, explains owned Philadelphia bureau, chief miles, Brian. He had helped from Tori Dominguez and even more help from Matthew Colette, Laura Bullard and Paul mosey. I'm Sean Ram from you can find today, explained on Twitter at today. Underscore explained if you so choose. We're also available via email today explained vox.com.