1 (2s):
Robert Francis Kennedy. What

2 (5s):
We need in the United States is not division. What we need in the United States is not hatred.

1 (12s):
No, not that one. His large adult son.

0 (17s):
I need my speech.

1 (22s):
Robert Francis Kennedy Jr was running for president as a Democrat. Of course he was. He's a Kennedy.

0 (32s):
You can't read anything, you can't read anything.

1 (34s):
But as of this week, he's running as an independent. It's

0 (39s):
It's upside down. It's upside down.

1 (43s):
Who's gonna hurt more as a result, the current president or the former one, Coming up. On today, explained

0 (58s):
Bye.

Charles Schwab (1m 0s):
Support for today. Explained comes from Washington Wise. It's an original podcast from Charles Schwab. Decisions made in Washington DC can affect the markets every day. But what policy changes should investors be watching Washington Wise is an original podcast for investors from Charles Schwab. The show covers the stories making news in Washington, and also how they might affect your finances and investments. you can listen today@schwab.com slash Washington wise. That's schwab.com/washington. Wise

Canva (1m 34s):
Support for this episode comes from Canva, who just launched Magic Studio, a set of AI powered tools that supports every part of your workflow. With Magic Studio, you can create custom designs from just a text prompt, generate sparkling copy in your brand's voice for any design or document, edit images or create new ones. Generate beautiful content fast. Track your first draft, automate tasks and design like an expert, all the power of ai, all in one place. Explore Magic Studio at canva.com/magic Today.

5 (2m 14s):
David Freedlander. I'm a contributor to Politico Magazine.

1 (2m 17s):
Great. And you recently wrote a piece for Politico titled RFK Junior's Ultimate Vanity Project. Why did you call it that?

5 (2m 27s):
I think Robert Kennedy is not going to be the next president of the United States. We should be loathed to make predictions over the last decade or so of American politics because they often proved me wrong. But you know, it does sort of seem like this is a little bit of a, a quixotic run and it's not really clear, you know, why he's doing it. Robert F, Kenny Jr seemed to be running for president because he got kicked off of Instagram during the Covid vaccine rollout, and he's really mad about that.

0 (2m 58s):
He had to invent

6 (2m 59s):
A new word called malformation to do, to censor people like me. There was no misinformation on my Instagram account.

5 (3m 7s):
He says he was kicked off for what was a sort of a fact about the, the Wuhan lab and, and it was at least, you know, in dispute about whether or not he was right. What Instagram said at the time was he was kicked off for serial inaccuracies about covid and, and about the vaccine.

6 (3m 26s):
We are saving people's lives and we're saving democracy because children should not be getting this vaccine.

5 (3m 32s):
So he seems to like, he's sort of running for like this banner of free speech that's a sort of like in many ways the kind of crux of of his candidacy.

1 (3m 40s):
Were you there when he kicked off his initial campaign as a Democrat, David?

5 (3m 45s):
I was, I, I was in Boston. Part of it felt like a kind of, you know, old home meeting of sort of Kennedy fans, if not really Kennedy family members because most of his family has disavowed him.

7 (3m 56s):
I've listened to him, I know him. I have no idea why anyone thinks he should be president.

5 (4m 4s):
But it was this weird mix of you voters who sort of like traditionally I think are thought of as being sort of on the left side of the spectrum. There was, it was a kind of like hippie-ish quality to them and they're, they were concerned about wellness, they were anti-vaccine, but a lot of their anti-vaccine concerns were about, you know, big pharma and you know, healthy living and sort of natural living in a way that kind of vibe has drifted into like the sort of right wing of the American political spectrum and it includes a sort of distrust of government, suspicion of big institutions, a suspicion of business, all of which, you know, I think are now kind of more conservative and, and right-leaning.

1 (4m 47s):
I don't actually ask this of journalists on this show that often, but you wrote about the speech itself in such vivid detail. I found it so bonkers. I wonder, would you read a section of your piece to us? Would that be too much to ask? No,

5 (5m 5s):
No, no. When Kennedy kicked off his candidacy in April at the Boston Park Plaza Hotel, he began by talking about the history of the Kennedys in America.

6 (5m 15s):
There was legalized oppression against Irish Catholics

5 (5m 19s):
Segregated into the origins of the American Revolution. It was really, he claimed about the corrupt merger of state and corporate power bounced over to Gary Powers getting shot down over the Soviet Union and it U two spy plane and

6 (5m 30s):
The Eisenhower administration denied that. We had a U two program

5 (5m 33s):
That was 1960, went on to the Pentagon Papers, his father's 1968 presidential campaign. The penal railroads, pollution of the Hudson River

6 (5m 41s):
And Central Railroad began vomiting oil from a four and a half foot pipe in the Croton Armon rail yard.

5 (5m 47s):
How God reveals himself through art and nature.

6 (5m 49s):
God talks to human beings through many factors.

5 (5m 52s):
He then paused saying he's about halfway through.

6 (5m 55s):
I wanna move on to a a another issue that nobody's gonna really wanna talk about, but I need to,

5 (6m 1s):
Before launching into discourse on Covid lockdown censorship, of course the Vanishing Middle class, how in March, 2020 public health authorities went to every black neighborhood and locked down the basketball courts, which what the smallpox outbreak that tore through the continental Army in 1775. The Cuban Missile Crisis, the industry capture of government agencies, the chronic disease epidemic, the origins of autism, the war in Ukraine, the National Debt WMDs in Iraq vaccines, and Pete Buttigieg iss stewardship of the Department of Transportation. He's not a fan. Almost entirely missing where any plans to tackle democratic priorities like raising wages, decreasing inequality, combating climate change, reducing gun violence, or wrestling with aspiring cost of healthcare.

6 (6m 44s):
Oh, every Friday Keith goes and picks up 30 oysters, brings them to my house and I pay for the oysters. He shucks them, he makes it,

5 (6m 53s):
The speech clocked in it nearly two hours in the middle of it. I wondered if Kennedy believed he had to do this because it was the last speech he would ever give about three quarters of the way through, just as Kennedy was talking about how Saudi Arabia and Brazil were ditching the US dollars in new trade agreements for their own currencies. And alarm went off in the hotel ballroom and a voice came over the loudspeaker telling everyone to calmly leave. There was an emergency

8 (7m 16s):
Emergency in this building.

5 (7m 18s):
Kennedy told the crowd that an A had told him there is no emergency that affects us and tried to make a joke that the powers of B were trying to shut him up.

6 (7m 26s):
Now he is try,

5 (7m 29s):
But then he just kept on plowing through Willy oblivious to the sirens. All of which is to say the man can be kind of exhausting. If you've ever found yourself in a college dorm room talking with someone who can't believe how, you don't know how Mumia abou Jamal was framed or how about the fluoride in the water because you have been turned into a sheep by the corporate overlord who control the media and the government. Well, talking with Kennedy is kind of like that.

6 (7m 53s):
This is what happens when you censor somebody for 18 years.

5 (8m 1s):
I mean, you know, it's funny like when he, when he first came into the race, I mean there was like, he had a kind of 15 to 20% that he was polling in the Democratic primary polls. And I think that was really like alarming to a lot of political pundits, professional Democrats, you know, is this 20% is he just started campaigning? Is it gonna grow? Is it gonna be 30%, 40%? And instead it kind of sunk a little bit. The more he spoke a lot of that 15 or 20% or whatever it was, you know, there's just a, a place for people who sort of aren't totally sold on Joe Biden or who are mad with him to kind of park their disapproval of him and you know, some of it was probably a little bit of a reverence or the Kenny name or familiarity with the Kenny name.

5 (8m 42s):
And then some of it was this like anti-vax conspiracy laden wellness driven vote if doesn really get aired a lot in democratic party politics. And there were some fears that that vote is like bigger than we know that it's sort of growing on Facebook, but it doesn feel as if it's like a major block in the Democratic party right now.

1 (9m 6s):
So when does it become clear to RFK Jr that he's got a ditch democratic politics and run as an independent?

5 (9m 13s):
Well it's funny, the places where he got like the most interest in his campaign and it was promoted were on right wing media sites. He was like the favorite of right-wing podcasters. Robert

10 (9m 27s):
F, Kennedy Jr is not gonna win the Democratic nomination. What you have is this anti-establishment, anti-authoritarian, populous movement. if doesn trust the administrative state doesn't trust the deep state,

5 (9m 39s):
The Twitter space hosts and YouTube personalities, Fox News Adam on several times, Robert

11 (9m 46s):
F, Kennedy Jr is here to react. Good morning to you. Morning

12 (9m 49s):
Robert, F Kennedy Jr, welcome.

6 (9m 51s):
Thank you Bobby Kennedy Jr. Thank you. Thank you very much Dr. Mr

13 (9m 54s):
Kennedy, welcome back to the program. It's always good to have you with us.

6 (9m 56s):
Thanks for having me Martha.

13 (9m 58s):
Y you know

5 (9m 58s):
What was sort of unique about it was he was kind of obvious that the reason they had him on was because he was a democrat who was willing to criticize Joe Biden. So in other words, here's this guy who sort of sees the world as this multi-layered conspiracy that kind of infuses all that we we see and touch and taste. He was actually in many ways the kind of like subject of a conspiracy and an unwitting one, if that makes sense. Like he was in, in some ways he was the sort of useful duke of all of these right wingers who liked the fact that he was willing to criticize a a a a Democrat. but he seemed sort of unaware of that.

6 (10m 39s):
I'm proud that President Trump likes me, but

5 (10m 43s):
Regardless, I was really aware like he was finding an audience was in those spaces and I think that's why he ended up leaving the Democratic Party.

1 (10m 57s):
So he has another kickoff on Monday when there's no other major news going on, conveniently for him, how does it go?

5 (11m 6s):
I think it mostly went fine, but I still think he hasn't like figured out that the point of these things, it's to get like viral clips that can go on C N N M S N B C maybe leaving news or at least on social media and he just kind of tends to talk and talk and talk. You know, running as an independent is like a little bit of a, of a better fit for him. One of the problems or issues of his candidacy was that, you know, because he was always sort of being cheered on by right wingers, he would say things that they wanted to hear, you know, on guns, well, I'm

6 (11m 37s):
Not gonna take away anybody's guns

5 (11m 39s):
Even kind of on the environment. In a funny way, when he would be asked about them by mainstream news reporters, he would have to kind of quickly backtrack because he was, had to remember that he was still like running in a Democratic party primary. And so I think that this enables him to not have to do that anymore.

1 (11m 56s):
Do you think an independent Robert F Kennedy Jr is different in terms of campaigning than a democratic Robert F Kennedy Jr?

5 (12m 11s):
Well, you know, he's funny because he's like a lefty democrat from like another era, a kind of like pre Bernie Sanders era. Like he's kind of a 2004 version of of a lefty Democrat, which doesn't really exist anymore. It's a kind of democrat who focuses on the environment in this kind of neighborhoody backyard kind of way where it's about like clean water, you know, not having sort of like new development in open spaces, but not about like global warming, climate change, these issues that are now like really what the b a sort of lty environmentalists are all about.

6 (12m 48s):
I approach to climate, I mean my approach to reducing to, to energy, let's say my approach to energy is using free markets And that not top down control.

5 (12m 60s):
Now that he's running not the Democratic party primary, he can, he's kind of free to like not pay heed to democratic party politics in a way which he was doing a poor job of anyway. I mean his, his sort of training is as an environmental lawyer and so you would think he would sort of be foregrounding that like the latest activists on the Democratic left are saying about the environment, but he's not really, I mean he's sort of talking about the environment and this river keepers sort of way and, and not about, you know, zeroing out carbon emissions. So I think he's just sort of a, a better fit for the kind of like idiosyncratic politics he was appealing to. Anyway.

1 (13m 44s):
Spoiler alert, Bobby Junior's not gonna be president, but how he might impact this race when we're back on today, explain

Charles Schwab (14m 4s):
Support for today Explained comes from Washington Wise. It's an original podcast from Charles Schwab. Decisions made in Washington DC can affect the markets every day, but what policy changes should investors be watching Washington Wise is an original podcast for investors from Charles Schwab. The show covers the stories making news in Washington and also how they might affect your finances and investments. you can listen today@schwab.com slash Washington wise. That's schwab.com/washington Wise

NPR (14m 38s):
Support for today Explained comes from NPR and their new podcast, body Electric. Body Electric is an interactive six-part series that investigates how our relationship with technology is affecting our health. According to their research, our bodies are actually changing to meet the demands of technology nearsightedness, mass psychogenic illnesses, gotta look that one up. Type two diabetes rates going up in young people so they're partnering with Columbia Medical School to figure out what's going on and what we can do about it. Body Electric also has some solutions to these problems that you can try out for yourself. Sarah Frank is my colleague here at Fox. She works over on the business side and she listened to Body Electric and then told us what she thought. Maybe some of y'all are like me and get sort of a full body shivers if you hear that Slack or work email noise after hours. This show is gonna explain things like that. And there's also an interactive element so us listeners can follow along and make some of the changes that they talk about on the show, which is really cool. You can listen to Body Electric now on TED Radio hour from N P R or wherever you get your podcasts Explained 2024 Explained Today, explained is back.

1 (16m 2s):
David, can I ask you about third party candidates for a moment? Can we do a little history?

5 (16m 7s):
I think the thing to know about like American politics is that this is just, it's just not built for, for sort of third party candidacies. The last really successful third party in American politics was the Republican party.

18 (16m 22s):
Most of those who were members of the Free Soil Party eventually became members of the Republican party, which also began its life as an anti-slavery third party.

5 (16m 33s):
You know, in 1992, Ross Perot's Reform party got about 20% of the vote. I don't

19 (16m 40s):
Have any spend doctors, I don't have any speech writers probably shows

5 (16m 45s):
And there's still been like a lot of debate about whether or not, you know, that sort of took the presidency away from George h w Bush and and handed it to Bill Clinton. I think, you know, the numbers seemed to say that that wasn't the case, but you know, what per did in that race was he really sort of changed the conversation and and made it on terrain that was friendly to Bill Clinton. And then, you know, more recently I think what third parties mostly have done is sort of play a spoiler role getting very, very, very little of the vote. But in the last 20 years or so, our elections have just been so close that even if a little bit of your coalition kind of drifts away, it can hand the election to the other guy.

5 (17m 30s):
I think that there's some evidence that we saw that in 2000 with Ralph Nader's Green Party bid, you know, handing the election to George W. Bush and then, you know, again in 2016, you know, Jill Stein again just did not by any measure, did not do very well in that election, but kind of took enough votes away from Hillary Clinton that handed the election to Donald Trump. And

1 (17m 54s):
Who can even remember what happened next? What is it about the American political system that makes a third party run so challenging?

5 (18m 6s):
The issue is that in our sort of two party system, what ends up happening is that the parties are kind of this coalition of various factions. Like in most other countries, you wouldn't have a Democratic party that had both like Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders and a o c in it and Joe Manchin in it, a conservative Democrat. They would all be separate parties. But what happens in, in, in American politics is they all kind of become subsumed into this one party. And the same thing happens on the Republican side, where you really wouldn't have like Mitt Romney, Kevin McCarthy and Donald Trump be in the same party. But again, what ends up happening is that our politics are just because we have this two party system and because our politics are so closely divided and because we also have kind of like winner take all political system, it just doesn't make sense for anybody to kind of go their own way and stake out their own path.

5 (19m 1s):
Right? I mean, think of it this way. We have this electoral college and, and the way it works is that if you win a state by a single vote, you then get all of those electoral college votes, right? So, you know, Ross Perot did pretty well in the election. He got 20% of the popular vote and he got zero electoral votes. And so when you have this winner take all system, it means that you all the forces are kind of geared towards like defeating the other side rather than on your own sort of pet political project unless you really do feel, you know, the sort of righteousness of your cause, which bubbles up every so often. But that ends up just kind of getting, again, just kind of absorbed into the two major political parties.

1 (19m 44s):
Tell me, I don't think it's just RFK Jr running as a third party candidate this time around. Can you give us the slate?

5 (19m 52s):
Yeah, that that, that's right. I mean, so Kennedy is running as an independent, it was also last week Cornell West, the philosopher academic social justice activist who had been running for the Green Party nomination. He was no longer gonna seek the Green Party nomination, which is what Ralph Dader and Jill Stein ran on. He was actually also gonna run as an independent, there's

20 (20m 17s):
Two party system that impedes it gets in the way of the unleashing of the kind of policies of abolishing poverty and homelessness of

5 (20m 27s):
Now I can pause here and and note that, you know, it's really hard to run like as a true independent without a sort of party backing you as both Cornell West and Robert F Kenny are trying to do it. It takes a lot of money, it takes a lot of like legal know-how, it takes a lot of effort to get on the ballot. So I think in both cases we're gonna have to see how they do. They, they're just onerous rules to to, to get on the ballot. You don't have, if you don't have major party backing, I mean in a lot of states, like for example the Green Party is, they're on the ballot because they run candidates every year. They are a small party but a national political party.

5 (21m 7s):
And so they're, they're used to this and they're already on the ballot. But if you're not on the ballot, you have to go out and gather signatures. It costs money. You, you have all these sort of hoops you have to jump through that. I don't think these people necessarily all fall through. And then there's also a third option out there, which is no labels, which is this group that they're a little hard to define.

21 (21m 30s):
The problem is not the third choice that no labels is offering the American people. The problem is the American people are not buying what the two parties are selling anymore. How about that?

5 (21m 43s):
They don't have a label. So they're a little hard to define, but what they sort of believe that there is this moderate middle in American politics that is being unaddressed by the two major parties and they are on the ballot and several swing states and they are planning on running a candidate. My guess will be I think a sort of like one Republican and one and one Democrat as as a ticket to compete alongside Joe Biden. Donald Trump Democrats are really, really worried about this. I think they're very worried about Cornell West, maybe a little less worried about Robert F Kennedy 'cause they think he may take votes from Donald Trump right now. But this, this no labels thing, it seems like what they're trying to do is kind of be a party for, in a way for Republicans who are sort of just don't really like Donald Trump but also think that Democrats are too liberal and some Democrats who think the same thing.

5 (22m 37s):
They're also hanging out there.

1 (22m 39s):
Is it fair to say that of all these other candidates, Robert F, Kennedy Jr has the biggest chance of being a spoiler in this race

5 (22m 50s):
As of now? I think he's pulling the highest and I think that may change as more people sort of tune in to the stuff he's saying. You know, the interesting thing about Robert F Kennedy is that, you know, literally until yesterday he was a Democrat, there's a belief that he may actually take more votes from Donald Trump because, you know, a lot of the things he's talking about are the sort of like fringe elements of the MAGA coalition. I mean the, the vaccine suspicion, the sort of suspicion of five G wireless, you know, a kind of return to a kind of small and and local community building kind of way that that's sort of divorced from the national government.

5 (23m 32s):
And so you can see him sort of hurting Trump more than hurting Biden.

1 (23m 37s):
Bringing this back to your piece, RFK Junior's Ultimate Vanity project, how do you think he might feel if he manages to throw this race in favor of the former president or the current one? Would that be something of an accomplishment for him? Would he then go away?

5 (23m 55s):
So he's not gonna go away, I think is, is my answer. I mean he's really, you know, he has this sort of like, you know, the fervor of the righteous and he believes in his cause and he believes that he has been censored from speaking about his cause, which is a ridiculous thing to think. I mean, even when he was kicked off Instagram, he was still on massive other, had massive fall on other social media platforms, I think, you know, wrote or contributed to something like three or four books that are available on Amazon or wherever fine books are sold. So all of which is a long way of saying no, I I don't think he would be satisfied or, or go away regardless.

1 (24m 40s):
He's here to stay.

5 (24m 41s):
That's right.

1 (24m 42s):
And many Kennedy's after him I'm sure.

5 (24m 44s):
Yeah, yeah. I mean, you know, it's funny right? 'cause they, they're all sort of disavowing him. All these Kennedy's that I don't think anyone quite really knew who they were until they were listed as disavowing their brother or cousin or uncle.

1 (25m 2s):
It's been great and terrible publicity for the Kennedys.

5 (25m 5s):
Exactly.

1 (25m 10s):
David Freedlander catches words at Politico and also in New York magazine. Our program today was produced by John Ehrens with help from Haddi Mawajdeh. They both had help from Matthew Collette, Laura Bullard, David Herman and me. I'm Sean Ramas firm. The rest of the Today Explain team includes Halima Shaw, miles, Bryan, Victoria Chamberlain, Amanda Luellen, SI, Petros, Isabel Angel, Abhai Artsy, Patrick Boyd, Rob Byers, Amna Aldi, Miranda Kennedy, and Avi Noel King. We may be used music by Breakmaster Cylinder. And today Explained is distributed by wnyc. The show is part of Vox, which is totally free. Thanks in part to contributions from our listeners.

1 (25m 51s):
Join us at Vox dot com slash give thanks.