0 (1s):
What if there were a news network that didn't really care about facts.

1 (6s):
The department of justice has weaponized the FBI and is now actively targeting its political enemies.

0 (11s):
No, I'm not talking about Fox news

2 (13s):
Before Biden became the masterpiece and senility. He is today. He was a bonafide creep, a class, a pervert.

0 (21s):
I'm talking about something even less factual.

3 (24s):
We're labeled the crazy tinfoil hat. We're in loonies for calling this out the Pizzagate scandal

0 (30s):
Coming up on today, explain the rise and fall of one American news. And what it says about our conspiracy fueled fact free information age.

4 (40s):
I can only go so far with conspiracy theorizing and telling lies before it's going to catch up to you because people are not going to want to do business with you anymore.

5 (52s):
Yes. What I never thought I'd be talking about on national television gay penguins. And yet here we are

Cities (60s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action that together cities committed $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at citi.com/e S G.

DirecTV (1m 43s):
This episode is brought to you by DirecTV stream. DirecTV stream brings you the live TV you love. That means you can stay up to the minute on 24 hour live news from entertainment to current events, wherever you are in the U S whether that's at home on your TV or streaming on the go and you get your favorite live sports. So you can catch this season's biggest games. Get the best of live TV with DirecTV stream. Get your TV together@directv.com.

0 (2m 17s):
It's not explained I'm Sean Ramez from Justin <inaudible> is a media reporter for the daily beast. And he has some personal experience with the folks at one American news.

4 (2m 27s):
A few of the hosts aren't fans, neither is the owner. So, and many of their guests, specifically the MyPillow guy,

9 (2m 36s):
Okay. This is Justin Barra, goanna three terrible reporters for the daily bees and Adam and the other guy, Justin, Justin <inaudible>, Justin. Barguna what a shameful person to our country.

4 (2m 54s):
So, yes, I I've gotten called out a few times on air by OEN folks who are not happy

10 (3m 1s):
And yep. Daily beast and media matters. And the rest of you a-holes out there can do article on this.

0 (3m 6s):
Justin became a persona non grata on OAN by writing about their distinct approach to the news, and more recently their business woes on the show today, he's going to tell us how OAN went from the former president's favorite fat-free broadcaster to getting well canceled.

4 (3m 26s):
Oh yeah. It is a conservative quote-unquote news network that began in 2013 and quickly drew attention for itself over the years, by leaning further and further to the right of Fox news jumping full on into the fever swamps of the internet and trying to mainstream that type of stuff. And eventually it got the attention of Trump and his audience that then became champions of Elliot.

11 (3m 57s):
Okay. A couple of questions. Go ahead, OEN. We'll take a few questions, Emerald OAN and I want to congratulate you on the network. It's a great network.

12 (4m 9s):
Yes, sir. Very good. Treat me very nicely

0 (4m 14s):
For those people who have trouble envisioning something more conservative than Fox news. Can you help them understand how OEN could outfox Fox?

4 (4m 23s):
Oh yeah, because OAN doesn't really have any newsroom standards that a Fox news would have. They would grab on to any type of bumbling internet conspiracy that was out there and put it out to the viewers without checking on it. First, take the Parkland shooting. For example, back in 2018, they were out there putting out stories that David Hogg, outspoken advocate for gun safety, that he was running cover for his retired FBI agent father in the aftermath of the shooting.

13 (5m 0s):
It's disgusting that these trolls are out there trying to make this about me and not the people that were wearing.

4 (5m 5s):
They didn't have any proof behind it other than maybe a gateway pundit story, which again, we're talking about the fever swamps of the right, but then all of a sudden it's starting to get more and more coverage out there on the internet.

1 (5m 20s):
By Tuesday, the conspiracy went viral on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and YouTube, the president's son, Donald Trump Jr. Liked to tweet

4 (5m 29s):
When something like that happens, it's just a, Boldings OEN more to do more and more stories like that, because all they're trying to do is get the attention of Trump world with these type of things that Maga base that feels like it's not getting enough from Fox steams, that that's too establishment, that they're too scared of the deep state and all of that. And that they aren't going to go ahead and give you the real unvarnished truth, which is these crazy conspiracy there.

10 (5m 60s):
It reminds us how important the mission is that we're on and that's to speak truth to power, to hold the powerful elite accountable. And it helps save this amazing Republic.

0 (6m 11s):
What's the origin story of OEN. Where does this network come from? How does it establish itself on people's TVs in America?

14 (6m 22s):
Hello, my name is Robert Herring and I'm owner and CEO one America news network,

4 (6m 27s):
Robert Herring, who is the founder and the owner of the station, along with his sons said that it was actually eight T and T that came to him to fund a conservative network alternative. This would be a channel that they could offer their customers. And so what happened in 2013 is, you know, he announced the launch of it at SeaPak that year.

14 (6m 52s):
I have worked with at T and T in one capacity or another starting when I was 20 years old. I started out as a chauffer, driving their executives around town. And later in life, this little news network that I built with my family and a small group of the hardest working individuals, I know found its way into the 80 and T channel lineup.

0 (7m 11s):
So wait, w at and T would just go up to people and ask them to create deeply political infotainment networks.

4 (7m 20s):
Apparently they at least ask this guy to do this. And we do know that they were responsible for the fast amount of funding to OAN through out of the majority of its history that without a T and T this station would never have actually existed. I mean, hearing himself is a rich guy and he, he could have bankrolled some of it, but, you know, he needed one, the funding structure behind 80 and T to do this. And he needed to be able to be on millions of television sets across the country to be able to make this work at the beginning.

0 (8m 2s):
Okay. So at T and D pitches, this guy, Robert Herring on creating an even more conservative quote unquote news network, what happens next

4 (8m 12s):
At that time, then OEN actually gets in bed with the Washington times, which is a conservative newspaper out in Washington, somewhat reputable, at least in terms of right wing media. And that Owen would run out of the Washington times building now that we just always short-lived OEN kind of went its own way. Washington times kind of pulled back, but that was the original idea was that this was just going to be a somewhat reputable conservative news network. I mean, in those first couple of years, during the day, you would have just very boring news reads with an occasional opinion ish type segment.

4 (8m 54s):
And then you'd have your prime time that, you know, leaned a little bit more to the right. The only thing that actually stood out from LAN and those first couple years was Tomi Lahren

15 (9m 4s):
For United States. Marines are now dead climate change. Didn't kill them. Lack of free community college. Didn't kill them. The income gap, wage inequality. Nope. Not those things either gay marriage. Nope. Oh, white racism. Not that either. So what did president Obama, if you won't say it, I will radical Islam.

4 (9m 22s):
She was the big name for LAN back in like 20 14, 20 15. Well-known for her sort of bite-sized rants about all culture, war issues or hot button GOP talking points. She eventually moved on, probably be just because one American news couldn't pay her. What Glenn Beck over at the blades was to pay her. And then eventually what Fox dues was going to pay her. That's what Owen was until Trump came along.

16 (9m 52s):
If there's anything the Democrats want above all else, it's power and who stands in their way. Trump's supporters.

4 (9m 59s):
Once you've known that Trump is going to be the Republican nominee, they decided to just kind of follow his leak. And so they just start shamelessly pandering to him.

0 (10m 9s):
It's like a soulmate situation. It's like, here's an ostensible news network that isn't wild about facts. And here's a presidential candidate. Who's also not that wild about facts.

4 (10m 18s):
Exactly. Basically the first two or so years of Trump's presidency, he essentially ignored LAN. They were trying their hardest to get his attention, but he was like, eh, whatever. But then he got mad at Fox news and they starts talking about how great Eliane and Newsmax are. I really think the person that appealed to him best that really got him fully getting into LAN was Chanel Rio

2 (10m 51s):
Lefties are those twisted members of society who love criminals and desire. Chaos,

4 (10m 58s):
Chanel Reone is probably the one person that any listener out there is going to associate with one American news at this point, because she also was a white house correspondent. And we remembered her from those COVID era press briefings, where she was sort of Kaley Mackinac he's like security blanket. Kaylee would constantly just let her ask her a question. Whenever things started getting a little heated in the press room, and then she needed a way to get out of that press briefing. And knowing that Chanel would just softball one up to her

2 (11m 34s):
And you consider the term Chinese food racist because it's food that originates in China, or it has Chinese. I don't think it's racist at all. On that note, major left wing news media, even in this room have teamed up with Chinese communist party narratives. And they're claiming you're racist for making these claims about China. As far as

4 (11m 58s):
Part of the ascendancy of only ed within Trump world kind of goes along with the Ukraine scandal that led to Trump's first impeachment.

17 (12m 7s):
First of all, I have to say, the Chanel has performed a real public service and getting this information out.

4 (12m 13s):
And then that's where we start seeing like, you know, they're peddling, COVID-19 full on disinformation.

18 (12m 20s):
There's extensive evidence now that these shots are nothing more than a bio weapon designed by Benito Fowchee in conjunction with the Chinese communist party to cripple America and usher in what geriatric Joe calls the new world.

4 (12m 36s):
And then as we get closer to the election, they start ramping up what Trump was ramping up, which is deselection is gotta be stolen from him.

0 (12m 46s):
That's in advance of the 2020 election. What does OAN do after the 2020 election as Trump begins, the stop, the steel campaign,

19 (12m 57s):
Donald Trump will prevail because once this is all laid bare in court, the trickery and secrets won't withstand the light of day

4 (13m 5s):
On an air. They are just parroting everything that Trump and his legal team is out there saying, which is that, you know, there is obvious evidence of widespread voter fraud that stole all these states from Trump. We know it in Pennsylvania, we know it in Arizona. We know it in Nevada. We know it in Georgia, blah, blah, blah, that a big semi-truck of balance was being shifted from New York to Pennsylvania. And then also stating that like smart MADEC and dominion. These were voting machines that were in league with Hugo Chavez in Venezuela and China, and that they were flipping millions of votes for buying

2 (13m 54s):
Dominion and two others dominate the voting technology market in America. This is a problem, especially if they're in tifo drenched, engineers are hell bent on deleting half of America's voice.

4 (14m 7s):
They don't have the proof for it, but they're like, of course they are because we've got the gout red lips or whatever.

19 (14m 12s):
Solomon says that in order for the ratios to be that exact at clearly designated times, computer software must have used an algorithm to change the votes.

4 (14m 21s):
And they just say a word algorithm because they know that the audience doesn't understand what algorithm is

0 (14m 27s):
Brutal, brutal

4 (14m 28s):
This whole time that this is happening. One of OEM's hosts is actually working as a legal advisor for him. That host is Christina, Bob, who is works on the Trump legal team as she is a host for. OAN nice at this point, there's just no veneer at all left. It's, we're all in it for we're going to do what we need to do to keep them in office. We're going to push these baseless allegations and essentially what we call now, the big lie, as hard as we can

0 (15m 6s):
Is stop the steel and their coverage of stop. This steel peak Owen.

4 (15m 11s):
It is peak OAM. We know it's Pico in because at the January six insurrection, you actually saw an OAM flag being waved there because they know that Len they've got Trump's back.

0 (15m 32s):
Coming up. OEN comes crashing down.

Cities (15m 48s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology, that money will help provide access to essential services like education, health care, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the U S but that's just a start. Having ambitious goals is what helps the world to make meaningful progress. And it's going to take all of us working together to make sure we continue to move in the right direction because to address these worldwide problems, it's going to take worldwide action. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at citi.com/e S G.

20 (16m 51s):
What did dinosaurs sound like? Here's Jurassic parks tape that roar was mostly made up of mammal sounds, but dinosaurs were a lot closer to huge bird. And instead of a roar, they might've had more of a punk.

21 (17m 9s):
It's a honk, but it's like a tuba honk.

20 (17m 12s):
The biggest deepest weirdest honk you can imagine

21 (17m 15s):
Get to tubas and having them play two different notes, and then they could rumble. And while your body is still shaking from the rumble, they could blast you with two very low notes. He could get real interesting

20 (17m 40s):
This weekend. Unexplainable, is it possible to figure out what dinosaurs actually sounded like scientists are giving it their best shot, new episodes, every Wednesday, following explainable, wherever you listen,

8 (17m 56s):
Call your cable provider and kindly demand that what American news is added to your lineup call and subscribe today.

0 (18m 4s):
So Justin, we just talked about how January 6th stopped the steal. This conspiracy theory, that Trump really was the winner of the election is peak OAN because they go all in. But funny enough, it also leads to their demise.

4 (18m 21s):
Yeah. And it totally leads to their demise, just like the other networks, Newsmax and Fox news that they had found themselves pushing out, basically lies about the voting machine companies, dominion and smart MADEC. They end up finding themselves on the receiving end of a billion dollar lawsuit from those two companies,

0 (18m 48s):
A billion dollar lawsuit,

4 (18m 50s):
$1.6 billion to be exact. And because they were shamelessly pushing it more so than the other two networks, they felt like not only was OAN with it, but many of their hosts like Chanel Rio were named in those lawsuits.

18 (19m 13s):
Oh, as you point out continues to this day to give a platform to people like Michael and Dell, despite knowing a recklessly, disregarding the truth about his life and about how false everything he is saying about dominion is

4 (19m 24s):
At the same time, they also got hit with a defamation lawsuit from two Georgia election workers over there repeated claims that these two election workers had brought in stolen balance during the counting phase of the 2020 presidential election in Cobb county, they ended up having to settle that lawsuit and they had to air and apology about that

22 (19m 52s):
Legal matter with this network and the two election workers has been resolved to the mutual satisfaction of the parties through a fair and reasonable settlement.

4 (20m 2s):
At the same time, you tad a lot of a left leaning activists and media organizations like a, the liberal media watchdog media matters advocating for 80 and T and direct TV to drop away in from its lineup

23 (20m 22s):
This year, even after all of the insurrection, all that violence stuff that you referenced before well at and T were nude with one America news, knowing full well, everything that they had done over the previous year, they didn't have to do. They made that active decision.

0 (20m 35s):
So the at and T, which was responsible for creating OAN and owns direct TV comes out earlier this year and says, you know what? We're good on? N

4 (20m 48s):
Yes. And so many words, yes, The majority of the revenue comes from what we call carriage fees. And that's how, you know, the cable provider, the television provider, the satellite provider, they to offer you so many channels. It's so much money, you know, per month. Well, they split that out between the channels, depending on how big they feel. One channel is for bringing in subscribers, they get a bigger slice of the pie and OAN was getting millions and millions of dollars a year just from at and T just off carriage fees. They weren't getting much money, anywhere else.

4 (21m 27s):
90% of their revenue was coming from at T and T direct TV. And it's largely through the carriage fees that they had negotiated.

14 (21m 35s):
We would also like to ask you our viewers to please reach out to the cable provider in your area where they're at spectrum dish or any of the other great providers, and let them know that you would like for them to carry one America news.

4 (21m 49s):
And yet a host Dan ball, urging yours to dig up dirt on a T and T executives, specifically the chairman in order to maybe blackmail them into keeping in on the air.

10 (22m 5s):
If you've got any dirt on Mr. Cannard, I love to see it and put it on this program. You bring me concrete evidence of whatever. It may be cheating on his taxes, cheating on his wife, saying racial slurs towards white people. Folks do that, whatever it may be, find it for me, bring it and we'll air it. Everybody's got dirty little sins and secrets they're hiding.

4 (22m 25s):
None of that actually worked. And then in late July, Verizon, just put a message to a subscribers out there a few days prior saying, you know, we're in negotiations with the herring network to continue to provide you with one American news. And, and another channel that they have few days later, they released a statement saying, yep, we weren't able to reach negotiation. We tried. So they're gone on July 31st, but as this is all happening, oh, losing employees left. And right. So the only other thing is the last challenge is to gripe about how Verizon's a cancel culture company too.

4 (23m 11s):
And they're super woke and how dare they do this to us, just like ATMT and all the rest of the ultra lives that are trying to cancel everything that's even slightly conservative. That's basically, he just goes scorched earth. At that point on the airwaves.

24 (23m 25s):
Although these starts to drop these conservative networks are always labeled as business decisions. We know it has something to do with the worship or profit. It almost always has to do with local leadership with these companies, just caving in and left wing pressure campaigns, and otherwise,

4 (23m 43s):
Where are these airwaves even showing at this point, it's essentially just become an internet company. You know, an online product. There's like a couple of cable providers that even have it on their lineup. And it's like a hundred thousand homes in Alaska. Have it, you know, that's where you could go see OAN. If you want to watch it on television, they have a YouTube account and about got posts or content there because YouTube demonetized away again, back in late 2020 for pedaling too much COVID-19 misinformation. So yeah, they could post their stuff there, but they're not going to get any ads.

4 (24m 25s):
They're not going to get any revenue. So their only hope is to get people to subscribe to their app. And maybe they could run some MyPillow ads, their bike, old ads, maybe some supplements, but these are super low paying ads.

0 (24m 43s):
So where does that leave? The network is a dead or dying.

4 (24m 46s):
I call it dying. You can't say it's dead yet. If they could make it work on streaming, maybe, but the business model was not set up. That way. The business model was centered around being a cable network. I mean, there is a lot of right-wing streaming options out there that are going to constantly just be beating them, whether it's from the daily wire, whether it's from the blaze. I just don't know if they're going to be able to survive in this environment. It just feels like they're almost already a Relic.

0 (25m 25s):
And though OEN is dying, how are the ideas? They promoted doing

4 (25m 30s):
The ideas that are promoted on and aren't going anywhere. They're out there and they're out there full force. You just have to look for them. A lot of times, we're just deciding not to look at them, you know, and that's probably to our peril. Sometimes there's tons of sites out there. Media outlets, streaming channels, even some stuff that's on TV that is going to put out stuff that is similar ish. If not the same as Atlanta,

0 (26m 4s):
Justin Baragon is a media reporter for the daily beast. Our show today was produced by Avishai artsy, edited by Matthew collect fact-checked by miles Bryan and mixed and mastered by Paul mousey. I'm Sean Rama's from it's today explained.