1 (6s):
Train is heading west from Albany to Buffalo, 300 miles away at 70 miles per hour. A minivan is heading east from Buffalo to Albany at 55 miles per hour. How many episodes of today explained can the family in the minivan listened to before they pass the train?

0 (26s):
The sat has been for decades, the cornerstone of American college admissions. You take the test and it essentially decides the course of the rest of your life. Some people like the editor of this show, Matthew Colette, believe any adult you meet who? Quote can't remember what they got on the Scholastic aptitude test. Actually just doesn't want to talk about their score.

2 (49s):
I, I agree with that theory.

0 (52s):
This is Scott Jasick. He's the editor and founder of inside higher ed. Does he remember what he got on the sat?

2 (59s):
I I do. I'm not sure I'll share it, but I do

0 (1m 1s):
Remember he does remember, oh,

2 (1m 3s):
Well they've changed a lot since I took him, but they are a series of multiple choice questions to design, to test vocabulary and math that are reading passages that they have to read and then answer questions. And that's pretty much it. So just a really fun

0 (1m 20s):
Way to spend a Saturday

2 (1m 21s):
Afternoon. Oh, definitely.

0 (1m 23s):
We called up Scott because the sat is at risk of losing its place in American college admissions. Right now a lot of

2 (1m 29s):
Of colleges are not requiring it anymore. And some won't even look at it when you submit it

3 (1m 37s):
Schools like for instance, Stanford and Notre Dame all make test scores optional on their application.

2 (1m 43s):
And this is both the sat and the act, the SATs main competitor.

3 (1m 49s):
She is still relevant with so many schools going test optional.

0 (1m 53s):
Not

2 (1m 54s):
At the same time. The sat has just announced it's going digital. And it's shortening the exam from three hours to two hours,

0 (2m 3s):
Pencils and paper laptops instead. And which schools have made the tests optional well

2 (2m 9s):
About all of them did last year and more than half of the four-year colleges have done. So again, this year,

0 (2m 17s):
The Corona virus outbreak has forced the college board to cancel all spring test dates.

2 (2m 22s):
Students couldn't take the sat or act many could, but many were turned away even after they registered on time because many testing centers were closed. But the criticisms of the tests predate the pandemic.

0 (2m 37s):
It's an inaccurate predictor. It's highly coachable. It's biased against many important populations

2 (2m 43s):
At scores. There are white students who do better and wealthier students do better. Also some Asian students do better and many are uncomfortable with that as our college dividing line.

0 (2m 59s):
So what does this mean for this house? But some people might still take it.

2 (3m 3s):
Yes. Some people are going to still take the test in general. Last year, the students who are applying to the most prestigious colleges continued to take the sat or more of them took the sat, but they had the option of not taking it. And so what most students who take the exams will do is they'll take the exam, get their score. And then they will find the average score at the college. They are applying to it. If their score is above, they'll submit it. If it's below they won't.

0 (3m 36s):
And let's talk about which schools specifically, we'll be still looking at these tests and which of them won't because there's some, some big brands involved here.

2 (3m 45s):
Yeah. I mean, look, Harvard in December announced that for the next four years, they are not looking at the sat. If students don't want to submit

4 (3m 54s):
The big stuff, right? I mean, Harvard often sets the standard. If they have a COVID response, other schools follow it. If they have an admissions response, I think others will similarly follow.

2 (4m 6s):
Now, then there's another category which is test blind, as opposed to test optional test blind colleges will not look at an sat score period. Even if you submit it. And that's the whole university of California system, Berkeley, UCLA, all of the UCS. And in March, the California state university system is expected to join them. I mean,

0 (4m 31s):
Harvard's not looking at the SATs. Why would anyone else look at them?

2 (4m 35s):
Well, I mean, there are some colleges and universities that say it helps them to pick a class that it helps them deal with grade inflation, which is a big problem. But if the colleges find that the students admitted for this fall do well and don't drop out more than previous classes had dropouts, then that argument will go away. Now, the SATs just announced these changes. People are going to want to know, well, did they work? I'm not sure they're going to, but the jury is still out on that. And the,

0 (5m 9s):
As you're referring to, are these sat tests going digital,

2 (5m 13s):
Right? Going digital and becoming a shorter test. Tell us

0 (5m 17s):
More about those changes.

2 (5m 18s):
Well, I mean the digital change makes a lot of sense. Now

5 (5m 22s):
It will be faster and easier and it'll work the way that students work on a computer results also will come faster to

2 (5m 30s):
Students. Today are used to digital. They already take exams digitally, and many would find it more traumatic, I guess, to take a long paper and pencil test than a digital test. So it really makes perfect sense. Students also prefer a shorter test.

3 (5m 48s):
We'll be two hours instead of three, with shorter reading passages and calculators allowed for the entire math portion,

2 (5m 55s):
The changes will probably make sat more popular. It's just, will they be enough to overcome students reluctance to take the test?

0 (6m 5s):
Do students like these? Is that a crazy question? I mean, is it going to be Eddie convincing kids that the SATs like fun,

2 (6m 13s):
Fun. I doubt I'll have it. Look, it's a task. It's not fun. But the students who like the sat and the act are not surprisingly, the students who do really well. And so some students are going to continue to take it hoping for good scores, but I don't think there'll be calling it fun.

0 (6m 33s):
College admissions have always been something of a flashpoint in this country for discussions of inequality and race and meritocracy. We've covered this debate on the show before in terms of affirmative action, the Supreme court just announced it would be hearing cases about affirmative action in college admissions

6 (6m 51s):
Or cases brought by a group of conservative students, mostly Asian Americans who say they were discriminated against by Harvard university of the university of North Carolina. In favor of

0 (7m 2s):
These new test policies make college admissions fairer.

2 (7m 8s):
Well, many people say so while many colleges removed the test requirement because of the pandemic. They're also thinking about the Supreme court case. Many people expect the colleges to lose at the Supreme court. There are not five justices with a history of backing affirmative action. So if they lose, they need to have ways to admit students that do not result in there being no black students, no Latino students. So this is also attractive to them in that sense. Most colleges that have dropped requirements for the sat and act, then experience arise and applications from minority students and a rise in admits of minority students.

2 (7m 55s):
How did

0 (7m 56s):
You judge a student when you're not looking at test scores?

2 (7m 59s):
Primarily on grade,

7 (8m 1s):
We can look at a transcript and get three and a half years of one's academic performance versus three and a half hours on a Saturday morning. And those three and a half years on a transcript is going to tell us a whole heck of a lot more.

2 (8m 14s):
Well, many high schools think they maybe are fooling the colleges with special GPA's. They give extra points for, for AP classes or various other classes. Most colleges, the redo the GPA in whatever way they like. And then they have a tool to compare in terms of the concerns about grade inflation. They also know what students at that high school are getting generally in their grades. And they can also compare that way. Look, the college application process is a lot about students doing things because they're told to do them.

2 (8m 54s):
You're going to you've to study for the sat. So that's something they do. And so, you know, students are very good at listening to others, tell them what to do, but it doesn't mean they like it.

9 (9m 10s):
Hi, I'm a current senior in the class of 2022. I think that the removal of mandatory testing for college admissions is probably a good thing for college accessibility and fairness. I've seen some of my friends and peers struggle with standardized testing. Often really bright kids just don't test very well. And to a lot of us, it really feels like the act is just a barrier to college that doesn't represent who we really are and what we can achieve.

1 (9m 45s):
Choose the phrase that finishes the sentence correctly more today explained after this blank, is it a message from our sponsors B chance to get some app coupons, see dollop of corporate propaganda or D all of the above

0 (10m 10s):
Support for the show. And it comes from the thread up threat up. It's like T H R E D U P uppercase lowercase T FYI threat up is one of the largest online thrift stores where you can save up to 90% off estimated retail prices. They have thrift level deals with the convenience of online shopping. So you don't have to go to the Goodwill or the crossroads and touch all the things. You can just look at them on the internet, save you a lot of time and potentially even money if you're into that kind of thing. Also, if you realize that that blue top you order, doesn't go with those mustard pants after you purchase thread up, makes it easy to return.

0 (10m 54s):
Thread up is offering a deal for new customers right now. So go to thread up.com and get up to an additional 50% off plus free shipping on your first order. That's an extra 50% off plus free shipping on your first order, just by heading to thread up.com. And that is T H R E D U p.com for up to 50% off and free shipping on your first order.

10 (11m 19s):
Whenever you look for news, you may feel forced to choose between partisans in mainstream media and conspiracies in alternative media.

11 (11m 25s):
That's where the last debate steps in I'm Corey Bradford,

10 (11m 29s):
The progressive political organizer turn Tik TOK star, who also wants hosted a Fox news radio show.

12 (11m 34s):
I'm Rick gen Z, New York post columnist and libertarian fighting to protect free speech.

11 (11m 39s):
And I'm Ravi Gupta, former staffer for Obama and school principal, who also fought alongside Republicans on charter schools. And we launched the last debate, a podcast and YouTube show for the politically collective we've lost trust in a polarizing partisan world

8 (11m 53s):
Would also reject the disinformation and manipulation in alternative media.

12 (11m 57s):
Instead of being at each other's throats, we focus on bringing new perspectives to the table and constructive debate. That sounds less like crossfire and more like discussions

13 (12m 4s):
Between real people

8 (12m 5s):
Check out the last debate on YouTube or wherever you get your podcasts

1 (12m 24s):
Reading comprehension. The tone of the last segment was a ironic B pessimistic, C garrulous or D

13 (12m 39s):
I'm Nicole Hemmer. I am a research associate at Columbia university and a columnist for CNN. Beautiful.

0 (12m 45s):
So Nicole, how big a deal are these changes to how colleges decide which students to admit

13 (12m 51s):
It's a huge deal? I mean, the sat has been a staple of college admissions for decades. I mean, your parents would have taken it if they went to college, chances are your grandparents. Might've taken it depending on how old you are when they went to college. So moving to test optional is a real sea change and it reflects, you know, a broader change that's happening at universities as they try to figure out how do we make admissions more equitable? How do we bring in classes that look more like the population of the United States? So it's a pretty big deal.

0 (13m 23s):
I sat become such a sort of essential part of this process in the first place.

13 (13m 29s):
So it actually has its roots in world war one. It was during that time at the Dawn of modern social science, when the army started having people take IQ tests. And the idea was you've brought all of these people, all of these men, really

14 (13m 48s):
Women of different religions, different races, different nationals

13 (13m 55s):
From across the United States, how do you evaluate them? And one of the ways they did this was through these IQ tests and it became so popular that the test was adapted in the 1920s for the college board. And they started using the sat and some other tests. And pretty much by the 1940s, the sat had become the gold standard of testing for college admissions and has been ever since

15 (14m 21s):
And work out the correct solutions to the problems you missed

0 (14m 24s):
And why didn't colleges want something like this? They weren't just comfortable like admitting men whose fathers had gone to Harvard before them. They

13 (14m 32s):
Were pretty comfortable with that.

16 (14m 39s):
The reasons that I have for wishing to go to Harvard. I several, I feel that Harvard can give me a better background and a better liberal education than any other university. I have always wanted to go there as I felt that it is not just a college, but it's a university with something definite to offer then to, I wish to go to the same college as my father to be a Harvard man is an enviable distinction. And one, I seriously hope I shall attain.

13 (15m 5s):
I guess the admissions has been a big part of colleges for a long time,

16 (15m 9s):
23rd, 1935, John F. Kennedy.

13 (15m 16s):
But the idea was that the sat could make college admissions more meritocratic. This idea that the United States is a big country and it's a big country dedicated to this idea that everyone gets an equal shot. And if you have the sat, you can find that diamond in the rough that farm boy out in Kansas, whose parents may have never gone to college, but has this kind of native intelligence that at either a public land grant university or at an elite school on the east coast could be shaped into one of the next leaders of the United States. And it was, as you can tell from that description, it was still a very constricted vision of what counts as meritocracy, right?

13 (15m 58s):
It's almost universally white, almost universally men. Of course there are co-ed colleges in the U S at that point, but the elite colleges were pretty much all male only. And so it was this idea of meritocracy that fit in with the very limited vision of universities in the early 20th century. Hmm.

0 (16m 17s):
So the sat must start out small, but how does it get to be the sort of defining metric of college admissions

13 (16m 25s):
Grows alongside higher education in the United States? Because elite schools are part of this consortium of the college board. They just agreed to use the sat. It becomes standard for their admissions, that sort of spreads and become standard for other schools. Admissions is they're copying these more elite colleges, but, you know, in the 1940s and 1950s due in large part to the GI bill, which is this massive piece of legislation passed to support returning soldiers after the war, the size of the college population in the U S mushrooms G

17 (16m 59s):
I could get up to $500 of tuition, and that would cover tuition at any private or public institution in the United States. At that time,

13 (17m 10s):
Suddenly you have people going to college whose parents wouldn't have gone to college who were middle or working class, and as those college sizes grow. So to do colleges dependence on the SATs by the 1950s, 1960s, it is just a standard part of college admissions.

0 (17m 31s):
That's, you know, growing in popularity, similar to the one kids take today,

13 (17m 37s):
Pretty similar. I mean, the other big news about the sat is it's going digital. So they're getting rid of the paper tests. But before that, I mean, the questions are very similar, multiple choice questions, math problems, there's a reading section and vocabulary. All of that, the idea of how intelligence or preparedness is tested by the sat has remained pretty stable over the course of the last 60 years or so. Hmm.

0 (18m 6s):
You know, part of the criticisms around the sat at least recently are that wealthier students can pay tutors to do better on the test. They can essentially buy a better score. Is that a problem people talk about in the forties and fifties and sixties,

13 (18m 22s):
We talk about it quite as much in the mid-century in part, because, you know, sat test prep does start pretty early. Stan Kaplan of the Kaplan testing regime. He starts offering the test in 1946, but he only offers it in New York. It's really in the 1970s that it begins to spread to the rest of the country, but it does suggest the sat is, is measuring something other than intelligence, right? Because the test prep courses actually have a lot to do with how well somebody does on the test. I mean, imagine two people were basically as smart as each other, but one of them has gone through all these rigorous test prep courses.

13 (19m 5s):
They've taken hundreds of practice tests. They've been drilled on vocabulary and analogies and cultural references. And they go in to take the test. Well, the person with the same sort of level of intelligence goes in having never seen an sat before nobody in their family has seen an sat. All they know is that this is the test you take to get into college. They have their sharpen number two pencils. Those two students are likely to do very different on the test because that level of familiarity that practice does have a real effect on the end results.

0 (19m 42s):
And that I guess brings us to this moment where schools are saying, we don't need this anymore. It seems like we've sort of come a long way from the tests, supposedly, you know, meritocratic origins.

13 (19m 55s):
I think so. I mean, the test has been recognized for some time as having a lot of built in biases. I mean, we talked about test prep, but it has clear biases in terms of performance by race, which suggests that the questions are tilted toward white test takers. It really isn't as meritocratic, or at least not as objectively meritocratic, if there is such a thing as the test has been purported to be. And so the move to test optional, I think does reflect an understanding by college admissions teams that, you know, this test, which measures something is not the type of thing we want to be measuring. When we think about the class that we want to admit, you know, it doesn't solve all the problems of inequality in colleges.

13 (20m 41s):
It doesn't even solve most of them, but it does reflect a real attention to trying to find other metrics for building successful, diverse, equitable classes.

0 (20m 53s):
There are a lot of people out there though who say that, you know, getting rid of the sat just means that universities colleges will just have to make decisions based on other stuff that has to do with wealth and class and status. Like what kind of sports you were able to play, or what kinds of extracurriculars you do, or who knows even how much tutoring your parents were able to afford for all the other core subjects that matter for college admissions. What do you make of that argument?

13 (21m 20s):
Yeah, it's a fair argument because as it turns out, capitalism has a lot of ways of lifting wealthy well-connected people to the top. It is, it is not a system that it's easy to make equitable on class terms on race terms. What I think that it does do though, is it strips away the myth of objectivity, which is something that the sat has that essays and extracurriculars and things like that don't have. So in a way, it does this thing of recognizing that it is an inherently subjective process and it gives more space, I think, to universities to embrace that it's a subjective process.

13 (22m 1s):
And to think about the values that are shaping the classes that they bring in, the students that they bring in. I think that there is space for some kind of testing, but I think you would want to have testing that indicates to a university, what kind of resources should we have in place for the students that we admit to thrive? Right? It's less about saying, you know, this tells us that the student is very smart and the student is going to succeed here and is better at indicating what do we need to do to help the student succeed here? Look, I think that it is a mistake to think about universities, especially elite universities as holy altruistic institutions.

13 (22m 46s):
But I do think that there has been an earnest effort over the past 20 or 30 years to figure out how to make a particularly elite universities. But I think other universities and colleges as well, how to make them serve a broader range of Americans. It is certainly the case that the incoming class at Harvard incoming class at Purdue university, the incoming class at community colleges are much more diverse than they were 40 years ago. And that does represent a big step forward. And it is part of a conscious effort by admissions offices to cultivate a broader and more diverse student body.

0 (23m 26s):
It will always be a couple of steps behind the American population probably is that a safe assumption?

13 (23m 32s):
It's a pretty safe assumption because of the broader inequities in American society. It comes back to capitalism,

0 (23m 45s):
Nicole Hemmer. She's got a podcast called past present where she and her co-hosts spring historical context to present day political and cultural debates, kind of like what you did on this show today. Our episode was produced by will read edited by Matthew Collette buttered by a theme Shapiro. And fact-checked by Laura Bullard.

1 (24m 19s):
You know, you're a real friend of today explained when you can a rate and review the show wherever you listen, be tell your friends to subscribe, see are still using a Quip toothbrush or D can spell Ramas from.