2 (1s):
Welcome to a new week of shows from today explained. It's Monday December 9th, which means we've got five episodes coming at you really soon. But first a message from the sponsor of today's show Q Eco. They've got a website QE co.com explained Ki W IC o---- and at that website, you can redeem the offer to try kiwi Co out for one month for free. The house Judiciary Committee heard evidence presented by Democratic and Republican lawyers today in advance of presenting its articles of impeachment. A lot of the evidence has to do with the president's personal attorney Rudy Giuliani.

2 (45s):
The president might be The Reluctant star of this impeachment shit show, but none of this would have been possible were not for Rudy Giuliani Whispering Ukraine conspiracies in the president's ear. We've talked plenty about the actions really took to bring President Trump to the brink of impeachment. But today we're going to explain how exactly Rudy ended up in this mess to begin with and we asked Andrew kurtzman to help.

1 (1m 11s):
I'm a veteran political reporter. I wrote a book called Rudy Giuliani emperor of the city and Simon & Schuster just assigned me to write a second book about Giuliani.

2 (1m 22s):
I wonder why why would they want a second book about Rudy Giuliani right now?

1 (1m 28s):
Well, I wrote the first book 19 years ago and his story is become if anything more

2 (1m 35s):
Epic. If epic is not the first word that comes to mind when you think of Rudolph the former mayor, here's just a slice of what's on his plate right now. He might be the reason his own client. The 45th president of the United States gets impeached all while he himself may be facing criminal indictment all while he's still chasing Ukraine conspiracies in Europe. There's rumors that he's going to make a podcast about impeachment a documentary about what really He happened in Ukraine. And this is all while he's undergoing a divorce. Not the one from his

1 (2m 14s):
cousin. It was a second

2 (2m 15s):
cousin not the one from his second

1 (2m 18s):
wife. It seemed to the public for a while at least like it was a very very happy marriage until the rumor started that he was carrying on one Affair and then

2 (2m 28s):
second. This was the one he broke up with via press conference

4 (2m 32s):
quite some time. I it's probably been a parent that Donna and I Lead many ways independent and separate lives and I'm hopeful that we'll be able to formalize that today's turn of events brings me great sadness. I had hoped to keep this marriage together.

2 (2m 50s):
And where does he go after

4 (2m 51s):
Donna? I would like to introduce my wife. Mrs. Giuliani

1 (2m 56s):
Judith Nathan and he met her somewhere in his second term there

4 (3m 0s):
Gracie Mansion wedding guests

2 (3m 2s):
included Donald and Melania Trump and Henry

4 (3m 5s):
Kissinger going to be a great.

2 (3m 8s):
And how'd that work out? It's divorce. Number three for Rudy Giuliani,

3 (3m 12s):
New York. City's former

1 (3m 13s):
mayor. Well, he's in divorce court right now

3 (3m 16s):
at a hearing today. It became clear that things are taking a nasty turn.

1 (3m 20s):
It's continuing and things to get worse before they get better with

2 (3m 24s):
estranged wife Judy Nathan claiming Giuliani is playing poor while lavishing spending money on a new girlfriend. That should be coming to her. Okay. Now that we got that all out of the way Rudy's epics. Story begins in New York City in

1 (3m 39s):
1944 Giuliani created a biography of his childhood that turned out to be not completely true. He was raised in Brooklyn and he had told the press that his father worked at a bar and he had said that he owned the bar when it took the investigator reporter Wayne Barrett to unearth the fact that his father actually. Lee work for a loan shark and was a criminal who spent time in singsing.

2 (4m 13s):
When does he become a public figure

1 (4m 15s):
before I got involved with politics stuff. I was a lawyer. He went to the justice department under Reagan and then took over the US attorney's office in the early 1980s and he became probably the most celebrated us attorney in at times he was the Elliot Neff of that decade and was a front-page figure for years and years because of his Unapologetic Fearless efforts to decapitate the mafia and this was a guy who invented the perp walk just a kind of humiliate the people that he had indicted or had arrested and you know, his reputation took a hit a little towards the end of his tenure at the US attorney's office where he was Accused of being overzealous a lot of his cases were overturned and people began to see him in a different light someone who was ruthless to the

2 (5m 18s):
extreme and he parlays that reputation and all that attention into a run for mayor of New York City

1 (5m 26s):
the attention certainly fueled his efforts and in 1989. He used his crime-fighting achievements as the basis for his race. I mean New York City in the late 1980s was really a mess. I mean crime was rampant. There was just a sense that order was deteriorating on the streets of New York. And so what better platform would there be then, you know a crimefighter someone who could take control of the

2 (5m 55s):
place. So, how is his first run at mayor go

1 (5m 59s):
it went badly. He ran against David Dinkins who was shooting to become the first African-American mayor and Johnny was undisciplined. He was unprepared and it showed his lack of experience as a politician

2 (6m 15s):
and he didn't take that loss very well, right. He basically continued his fight against Dinkins even once the race was over and especially exacerbated Dinkins relationship with the NYPD

1 (6m 27s):
Dinkins was hated by the police and the police union. He was seen as anti-cop and it all came to a head during a police raid. Rally against Dinkins during the 93 race that really turned into a police

3 (6m 42s):
riot.

1 (6m 46s):
And Giuliani kind of stood I think on a flatbed truck and

3 (6m 51s):
screamed. Oh is one reason and one reason alone David and the images were

1 (7m 5s):
harrowing of this kind of hothead urging on a

2 (7m 9s):
mob and I mean, it's impossible to not see the racial undertones of this conflict right this mostly white police force being led by a white New Yorker sort of protesting right the first ever black mayor of the city.

1 (7m 25s):
I agree with that. I mean the racial undertones in the entire race were obvious giuliani's campaign slogan was one standard for one city. And the message was that Dinkins was just favoring black people, you know, there was racial friction in New York City and he capitalized on that

4 (7m 46s):
American cities can survive as we know them if they remain so violent.

2 (7m 52s):
How did the one standard go into effect once Once Giuliani wins the mayoralty in

1 (7m 57s):
1993. There was a huge tension between Giuliani the black community during his mayoralty the police force was, you know historically seen as as an independent entity by mayor's it didn't work that way with Giuliani at all Giuliani use the police as kind of his army. And the Crackdown on crime. First of all was enormously successful but a lot of it came on the back. Of the civil liberties of black New Yorkers. He began the practice of stop and frisk, which just a legion of young black men in you know, poor neighborhoods were, you know, patted down sometimes thrown down to the ground, you know by police who had you know, scant evidence of criminality.

1 (8m 51s):
It was harsh the civil liberties were being violated. It was very very

2 (8m 56s):
effective. I should mention that crime trended down words across the country in the 90s. But certainly he's dramatically in New York City. But with that came this extremely fraught relationship between the NYPD and the black community in the city.

1 (9m 11s):
Absolutely. There was so much rage within the black community there are instances which just kind of symbolized his treatment of the community that triggered an uproar. So there was Case of Amadou Diallo who is mild-mannered immigrant police had been searching for someone who had committed some type of crime and I'm quite remember they saw Diallo, you know hovering around the entrance to an apartment building which turned out to be his own apartment building. They told him to stop and he Allah reach for his wallet and the police thought he was reaching for a gun and and they shot and killed him and it sparked just massive massive rallies against Giuliani was probably the closest Giuliani came to losing control of the

3 (10m 6s):
mayoralty.

1 (10m 26s):
Were arrested for protesting giuliani's tactics Dinkins himself was arrested Charlie Rangel a congressman movie stars that it was just a very effective kind of revolt against

2 (10m 41s):
Giuliani Bruce Springsteen himself wrote a song about this incident, right?

1 (10m 44s):
Yeah. He wrote a song called 41 Shots, which had the number of bullets that police fired at Amadou Diallo.

4 (10m 59s):
This is your life. Who secret my friend can get killed just for living your American skin, but none of that stuff really stuck to him because he was about to become

2 (11m 28s):
what some people still call him right now America's mayor.

3 (11m 32s):
This just in you were looking at obviously a very disturbing live shot there. That is the World Trade Center and we have unconfirmed reports this morning that a plane has crashed into one of the towers of the World Trade

1 (11m 45s):
Center. I called into my Newsroom. I was a television reporter at the time. My news director told me to go find Giuliani and by sheer luck. I found him and he kind of waved me over as we were walking North away from the Howard's which were smoking and one of the towers imploded right behind us and you know, we ran for our lives. It was just a whole bunch of us covered in Dust trying to find some semblance of order and I mean, it was really frightening moment. You know, I watched Giuliani very closely. It was standing next to him and and he was kind of the calmest one in the

4 (12m 25s):
bunch. I'm here on behalf of a very grateful and very admiring City. to tell each and every one of you how proud We Are of you and saying how proud We Are of the innocent men and women who were going about their lives seeking their part of the American dream when their lives were cut short by the act of cowardly terrorist and how proud We Are of all of you who have come here to rescue them and return as many of them as we can to their loved ones

1 (12m 60s):
even it's tone changed and Kind of bombastic hot-tempered mayor kind of changed overnight and then Stone became soothing and it was a extraordinary display of leadership. And at the same time the president was incommunicado. We're going to take airplanes when we're supposed to do for business or pleasure. We're going to

4 (13m 24s):
go to public events and we're going to do the things that we normally would do the best way to get

1 (13m 31s):
your children to stop being

4 (13m 32s):
afraid. Raid it's to stop being afraid

1 (13m 34s):
yourself Giuliani became the kind of the Father Figure and it was a very very refreshing thing and he became a beloved figure really across the world.

4 (13m 46s):
America's mayor is

3 (13m 49s):
the mayor of New York City. Ladies and gentlemen Rudy Giuliani

1 (13m 57s):
for years after 9/11. I mean the man could not walk into a restaurant without getting a standing ovation, you know, he was knighted by the Queen of England. He was times person of the year. He could walk on water in the eyes of the public.

2 (14m 20s):
But then he had to give up the mayoralty like what a few few months later.

1 (14m 24s):
Yes, he was due to leave office at the end of that year and he made this disastrous power grab to try to convince the public and the candidates for election at the time to let him stay on for a few months and it was a kind of a classic Giuliani over-the-top measure that went down in flames it was Guess the first glimpse of the beginning of the end of giuliani's heroic stature.

2 (15m 26s):
I've been talking to Michael from Toronto Canada on the show. He's a retired grandfather whose daughter Jillian went to Kiwi co.com / explain and picked him up a subscription of kiwi code crates for adults and we talked about his pinball machine and his coin sorter, but I did not ask him why his daughter opted to get him a kiwi code crate over her kids. His grandkids. My background is is architecture construction and it really Jillian probably saw that when she you know, listen to your podcast that these kinds of things are. The kinds of things her dad would find intriguing because they've been thought out so well and are easy for people to to deal with look together.

2 (16m 13s):
The other thing is I'm both of these things and I haven't got to that stage. You can you construct them and then afterwards you can modify them they sort of lead you into, you know on the pinball machine you can make little more complicated on the coin machine. They actually show you how and I guess this would get back to the kids how you could actually do your own sorting device on a flat piece of cardboard if you wanted to give it a try. So you don't open up the crate and build it and forget about it. No other opportunities to play around with it. So we'll see what happens with the third box. Well when you get it, I might have to call you back to find out how it went because it was such a pleasure speaking with you.

2 (16m 57s):
Okay? Thanks very much Sean. I'm thank you very much for allowing me to share it with you. My pleasure. Okay, bye-bye. Andrew how does Rudy Giuliani go from the guy who gets a standing o every time he enters a restaurant to Donald Trump's Lackey.

1 (17m 20s):
He wagered everything on his race for president in 2008. And it was a disaster. I mean he was as unprepared for that race as he was in the 89 race for mayor he he seemed to be improvising and he lost his 9/11. Hey. And it was a difficult moment for him one day he wakes up and he's no longer the most beloved person on the planet. He's just another politician and his trajectory just went right

2 (17m 51s):
word.

1 (17m 54s):
And you know, I joke that he took up Residence at Fox News. He wasn't really in demand much else where Isis is filling a vacuum created by a vacuous foreign policy. I the President Obama. This is an Obama Isis is an Obama creation. I mean you have to remember that there was a there was a long period after that 2008 presidential run where he was kind of in the wilderness and you know, the one source of Kind of support was the right wing when you say black lives matter that's inherently racist. That's anti-American and it's racist and the other thing going on at the same time was kind of a sea change in his view towards money.

1 (18m 41s):
He was always much more focused on power than money, but that changed along the way it was really focused on is business. He was doing increasing business with, you know, right wing dictators around the world. Hold fast forward to today. I mean the man owns Six houses. He has 11 Country Club

2 (19m 0s):
memberships. What do you do with 11 Country Club memberships?

1 (19m 8s):
I don't know go. Ask Rudy

2 (19m 9s):
Giuliani will reach out to him. When exactly does this quintessential New Yorker link up with another quintessential New Yorker

1 (19m 16s):
Giuliani and Donald Trump always had a passing admiration for one another they didn't spend a lot of time together. Other but there was this theme is video that was shown at the Inner Circle, which is kind of the New York equivalent. The Gridiron Club is skit No, you're really beautiful Giuliani appeared and drag a woman that looks like that has to have her own special scent.

3 (19m 41s):
Oh, thank you. Maybe maybe you could tell me what you think of

1 (19m 44s):
this set and created a video of himself and Donald Trump shopping at a department store and kind of damping around with Giuliana. He dressed in Drag

2 (19m 54s):
and imma Miss video Trump tries to kiss him and like shoves his face into Rudy's fake buzz.

3 (20m 1s):
Mm. Oh you dirty boy. Donald I thought you were a gentleman. Hey, you can't say I didn't

1 (20m 9s):
try you can see two people who clearly were on the same wavelength and they needed each other. I mean giuliani's phone was not ringing from a lot of the other Republican candidates and Donald Trump reached out to him and on the you know, the other side of the token is that Trump did not come from a political world did not have a lot of contacts and politics and Giuliani was Obviously, you know iconic Republican and he was very helpful to Trump. This is a man with a big heart who

3 (20m 43s):
loves people. I am telling you this because I am sick and tired of the defamation of Donald Trump by the media and by the Clinton campaign. I am sick and tired of it. This is a good man

1 (21m 5s):
the relationship deepened, you know, very quickly Giuliani, you know stood by Trump during the Access Hollywood episode and displayed a lot of loyalty and I think Now what you see today is that Trump has stuck by Giuliani long past the time where he would have with anyone else and you know Trump is not a particularly loyal man. I mean, this is a very very deep relationship at this

2 (21m 33s):
point. And of course this very loyal very strong and deep relationship eventually gets both of these people in a whole heap of trouble. Yeah, you

1 (21m 42s):
know, it was during the Mueller investigation that Giuliani came aboard. As Trump's personal attorney and you know Giuliani at the time told the press that he only plan to stick around for a few weeks. And I you know, I thought to myself that is never going to happen. Juliana is not going to go away in a few weeks and Giuliani could have served a very important role as kind of restraining Trump's worst impulses and instead he chose the opposite path. He threw gasoline on the fire and encouraged trumps. Paranoid view of what had happened and you know, it is race against Hillary Clinton and it's turned out to be a disastrous situation Would You Leon e is now on the brink of indictment for his actions in

2 (22m 29s):
Ukraine.

1 (22m 32s):
Good afternoon. I'm Jeff Berman United States Attorney for the southern district of New York today. We unseal an indictment charging live harness Igor Froman and two co-defendants

3 (22m 45s):
charged with conspiring to make it illegal. Campaign donations and lying to Federal Election Regulators. This investigation is about corrupt

4 (22m 52s):
Behavior deliberate law-breaking and these are two Associates who are effectively Rudy's boots on the

1 (22m 59s):
ground in Ukraine. So Rudy Giuliani has got to be

3 (23m 2s):
nervous and listen. There's more those men you are free men and left parties were picked up at Dulles on Wednesday night just hours after the Wall Street Journal reports. They have lunch with rulings Rudy Giuliani.

1 (23m 16s):
And the president is on the verge of impeachment. Just how far did the president's personal lawyer? Go to

2 (23m 25s):
undermine America's normal diplomatic Channels with

1 (23m 28s):
Ukraine. I do not understand mr. Giuliani's motives for attacking me nor. Can I offer an opinion on whether he believed the allegations? He spread about

2 (23m 37s):
me if we wanted to get anything done with Ukraine. It was

4 (23m 40s):
apparent to us. We needed to talk to Rudy

3 (23m 42s):
right you understood that. Mr. Giuliani spoke for the president. Correct? That's correct and Ambassador, Bolton Said But Rudy Giuliani was a hand grenade that was going to blow everyone up. I thought he was clearly pushing forward issues and ideas that would you know, probably come back to haunt us. And in fact, I think that that's where we are to do

1 (24m 4s):
and you know, he has Giuliani to thank for a lot of this. I mean think he rev Trump up on this whole notion that it was Ukraine and not Russia that had conspired against him in the race against Clinton.

2 (24m 20s):
You were standing next to him on 9/11. You were running up Lower Manhattan with him as the city came undone. And you saw an inspiring leader. You saw someone who Rose to the occasion in an unimaginable moment for the city the country the entire planet. How did he go from there to here?

1 (24m 44s):
I mean, he was always hot tempered. He always went for the jugular, but when he Mayor, he always focuses bombast in a disciplined way. He picked a Target and he went nuclear. That's not really the case now. I mean, he's disinhibited. He's kind of lashing out. I can't tell you why exactly. I don't know what's driving it but he's lost a lot of that discipline. I mean Giuliani is being investigated and could be prosecuted by the same us attorney's office that He wants LED. I mean it's a absolutely kind of Shakespearean situation.

1 (25m 27s):
It's what I mean, one of the reasons that got me interested in writing about him again. It's I mean, the the story is just beyond

2 (25m 34s):
epic and if he had just gone off after after being New York's mayor and presiding over 911 and become a professor or an author or an occasional commentator, he would have, you know, some sort of legendary. Legacy in American politics. Do you think he sees that as someone who's hung out with him as someone who

1 (25m 55s):
knows him? No, I think that he sees himself as right and others is wrong and that's been kind of a Hallmark of his personality since since the early days. He believes he's always on the side of justice and right. I don't believe for a moment that he feels he's doing anything but the right thing and he always has and all of his kind of dramas.

2 (26m 41s):
Andrew kurtzman is working on his second book about Rudy Giuliani. The first ones called Rudy Giuliani emperor of the city. I reached out to the emperor to ask. What one does with 11 Country Club. Memberships, but he hasn't gotten back to me yet. I'm Shawn rhombus from this is today explained. Thanks for letting today explain be a part of your day today and thank you to Kiko for supporting the program today. Kiko is offering you the chance to try their projects for kids for adults for grandparents out for free the website to redeem the offer one month freaky week o QE co.com / explained.