2 (7s):
We've done a

1 (7s):
lot of shows about the black lives matter protests that swept the nation after the police killing of George Floyd. We've talked about how the police responded the protesters in major cities the protests about the responses to the initial protests in those cities have talked about how governments are reforming police in those cities. But one thing we haven't really touched on is how this works in small towns small towns where there maybe aren't that many black people but that are still grappling with systemic racism towns like Bethel Ohio.

2 (38s):
That's all is a town. That's about a 45-minute drive from Cincinnati, Ohio. I think in some places people would think of it as like an egg sir. But from what everyone has told me it does not feel like that. It feels like a rural

1 (50s):
place. This is an Helen Peterson. She's a culture reporter for BuzzFeed where she wrote about one fateful protest in Bethel. So

2 (57s):
the town proper is And as people but then you know outside of the the small village line. There are more people who consider themselves residents of Bethel and there's the Village proper which is downtown area that has been there since their early 19th century. It has a bunch of churches people say like there's about a church per person but a lot of other things have been pretty hollowed out like they used to be a normal grocery store and now it's a On grocery store that doesn't have good produce that sort of thing and there's like a bunch of gun shops and pawn

1 (1m 35s):
shops in

2 (1m 42s):
early June this substitute High School teacher. Alicia Key was seeing that there were protests organized in small towns all around her. You know, one thing she said to me was like if Hazard Kentucky can ever privatized and we can have a protest but she was very Deliberate about thinking through what kind of gathering that they wanted to have. They wanted to be a demonstration in solidarity of black lives matter. They wanted to think of it as being a big tent to invite people who were all along the spectrum of you know, defund the police to you know, I just I support working towards equality.

2 (2m 24s):
They wanted to go beyond just the handful of people that she already knew would be stood from her personal Circle. So she decided to post it on the Facebook page that has kind of become a de facto Community page since the local news has pretty much evaporated and she's pretty scared about what would happen and she waited until later at night and then like posted some information about it and then went to bed and woke up in the morning and there were just a ton of messages and comments about like We don't need that here. Like how dare you bring that here and a lot of it.

2 (3m 5s):
I think it's less to do with what the message of the protest was going to be and more to do with what people had seen largely on Fox news about what these protests were which were violent conflagration 's this is just one of hundreds of businesses that were looted vandalize or set Ablaze over the past week the left psychotic so-called solution now to all the violence at all the Anarchy and all the lawlessness and all the Looting and all the arson and violence is a let's get rid of the police. And so people perhaps logically given the information that they had consumed thought that to have a black lives matter protest meant to destroy your small

1 (3m 51s):
town.

2 (3m 56s):
So they were saying, you know do not bring this here and they also there's a lot of assumptions that like if you do have a protest you have to import protesters or pay them all of this is happening on Facebook. So one of the people who gets really mad about the threat of a protest is a guy named Lonnie Meade who has also grown up in Bethel went to high school with some of the people that were showing up to protest and he started doing Facebook. I've

1 (4m 27s):
broadcasts

2 (4m 29s):
asking people to show up to protect the town on Sunday at 3 o'clock. They're supposed to be bringing black lives matter. I want to tell you right now. I hope everybody that feels like me. I hope we outnumber those people a thousand to one and not let that shit happen here and our little town of Bethel on the actual day of the protest, June 14th you have A couple dozen protesters who have shown up thinking that it's going to be just a really docile maybe even boring event where they stand on the corner hold up their signs for an hour and you know, maybe some people honk their horns at them or or even throw a soda but nothing really happens and then what they actually encountered when people arrived in the downtown area of the village were hundreds and hundreds of

1 (5m 24s):
bikers.

2 (5m 44s):
So you have you know just standing with signs on one side a couple dozen people and then you have hundreds of bikers yelling. Racial slurs yelling, like, you know all sorts of nasty things telling them to go home ripping up signs on the other. Why is a lot of bikers have guns that they were carrying pretty openly like AR-15s large guns handguns, but other people just brought bats, right like someone brought a bag full of bats. There was anger that these protesters they decided to stand their ground.

2 (6m 24s):
They're like, We are just standing here with our science. We're not going to leave. It's really really difficult to watch. I think especially anyone who grew up in a small town because it's just so easy to imagine that happening in your small town. It's just a dark dark energy. There's been a lot of criticism about how the police handle the situation because they essentially did not diffuse it in any meaningful way, but I honestly think the police were incredibly overwhelmed They were there expecting again, you know a couple dozen people standing on the corner holding signs and what ended up happening was so much bigger, but they did not intervene or arrest people who were tearing up signs.

2 (7m 30s):
I just got punched in the back of the even the man who came and Sucker Punch this guy in the back of the skull like did not arrest this guy, so, please We were standing right there and watched it and you can see that on tape and I think to though that when that happened that was kind of like the point when the protesters were like we've been here an hour's time to go home people realize like it could have gotten a lot darker at that moment.

1 (7m 58s):
Can you paint a picture of what these protesters looked like? I mean you hear a lot of racial slurs in the videos, but you don't really see any black people.

2 (8m 8s):
It's a whole lot of white people, right? That's one of the things that you have to understand. You know, what a lot of these small towns. They've worked hard to Center people of color in the community and let them lead and say like what matters to them what the protester look like that sort of thing. But there's also a lot of places and I think Bethel is one of them were there just aren't a lot of people of color there actually was a woman who is Black who was recording and she was not there to be part of the protest I think because she knew she would get menaced. So she actually was on the other side with the counter protesters and so people started yelling and word at her a lot of people said afterwards that The few people of color in the community who maybe would have shown up didn't really feel safe.

2 (8m 60s):
Like they knew that maybe it wouldn't be the best place to be and you know turns out they were right.

1 (9m 6s):
I mean considering small towns, like Bethel are very white and only have a handful of people and their police force to begin with. Why is it important to focus on what's happening in these small towns and what their protesters are saying?

2 (9m 22s):
Well, I think one thing that a lot of people have told me me that makes this time feels different is that you know, it's not just black people who are saying black lives matter in the streets, right? It is a whole lot of white people who are also saying, you know, this is something this is an idea that I agree with I think that showing how National the movement is that it's not a city thing. It's not a coastal thing. It's not a thing that is limited to black people or certain class of people like that is incredibly Horton to show just how widespread and popular for lack of a better word this movement

1 (10m 1s):
is how comparable is what happened in Bethel on Sunday, June 14th to what have happened in other small towns across the country as they've tried to organize around this movement

2 (10m 17s):
in some ways incredibly unique in terms of like exactly how many counter protesters showed up in the car. Predation between them but at the same time, I think that it could have happened and many many many different towns. It could have easily happened in my hometown in Lewiston, Idaho where a thousand people showed up to protest but the protest was in a park along the river and all of the protectors were downtown if they had been in the same space it could have easily exploded.

1 (10m 58s):
After the break, I'll speak to someone who's been trying to bring people together to better understand black lives matter in Bethel. I'm Sean Rama's Forum its today explained. Support for the show today comes from Babel. That's ba BB e l it's here to help you pick up that language that you maybe took for a year and high school or college but then sort of gave up on and fantasize about one day speaking leave you you dream that you really nailed French, but you know you wake up and you're confronted with the harsh reality that you're mostly limited to like a little way way here and there anyway,

2 (11m 53s):
I

1 (11m 53s):
can get you speaking like really speaking your dream language in weeks. They got 10 to 15 minute lessons that are thoughtfully created by language experts whose teaching methods have been scientifically proven to be effective across multiple studies. They even have speech recognition technology that helps improve your pronunciation and that whack accent. So right now when you purchase a three-month subscription Babble will give you three additional months free. With the promo code explained that is three additional months free. If you go to babble.com and use the promo code explain that's be a BBE elle.com.

1 (12m 33s):
The promo code is explained. This is Advertiser content.

2 (12m 43s):
Hey, this is Bo's. I'm a podcaster a streamer. But first a gamer 5G is changing the gaming world and really unexpected exciting ways with the help of Samsung 5G. I'm getting a peek at how gaming is getting faster smoother and can even improve our lives. Well, what's dish some secrets about the future of gaming that's dr. Jane McGonigal director of game research and development at The Institute of the future. She's also a best-selling author and game inventor. She's optimistic about Gaming's impact. Us and our minds the biggest thing that we've seen in research is that

1 (13m 18s):
we need to be able to game

2 (13m 21s):
in the moment wherever we are. So what happens when you're playing one of your favorite games is that it fires up the neurological Pathways. It's kind of like having a shot of caffeine and a pep talk from your favorite coach and you've just meditated for an hour this emotional and neurological PowerUp is called the game transfer effect, and that effect is heightened. And when using 5G the game transfer fact requires you to be totally immersed in the game. So you want to have the most amazing graphics and the most immersive audio and with 5G we're going to be able to do that anywhere anytime be one of the first to harness the game transfer effect with Samsung Galaxy 5G now available on Galaxy S 25g and a 71 5G feels good to be first with Samsung.

1 (14m 22s):
Oh,

2 (14m 23s):
that's definitely background noise. Hold

1 (14m 26s):
on. Is that your dog? And yeah, he's coughing. Hold on.

2 (14m 31s):
Why don't we just have you start by

1 (14m 32s):
saying, you know your name and where you are and and who your canine friend is and all that stuff.

2 (14m 39s):
Sure. Absolutely. My name is Rachel. Am I am in Cincinnati while the outskirts of Cincinnati, Ohio and my dog of Years. He just turned eight is named Freedom. My daughter of 12 years is named Liberty. So I have a I have a theme going there.

1 (15m 2s):
Thanks for letting us know. Okay, so so I mean how close are you the

2 (15m 6s):
Bethel Clermont County is kind of an inner working of a bunch of small towns. And Bethel is actually right in between Batavia where I live now. And New Richmond where I grew up and went to high school, we intermingle a lot but you know, we all pretty much know each other and have events together and and Bethel is just kind of a part of my life and always has been

1 (15m 35s):
someone whose whole life is sort of centered around this town. What is your impression of why the protests in Bethel on June 14th went so poorly

2 (15m 47s):
some of the comments that seem to be Happening not just from places like Bethel and and New Richmond and Batavia here in Clermont County. But from rural America all over the place. You see this attitude of oh, you better not bring the protests or the Looting and the rioting to our town will be ready for you. And that kind of became the the country bumpkin Mantra because small town America is not familiar with the language of protests just because they don't happen there as often as they do in the big cities.

2 (16m 30s):
They're not used to them the two words Riot and protest got conflated in people's head. So what did you do? I had planned a barbecue style sit down in the park. Like I said, the language of protests they don't understand but the language that they do understand is Barbecues in the park community events you at least have to have coffee and donuts. I got his way to think about a barbecue coffee and donuts.

2 (17m 11s):
It was morning. It wasn't really it wasn't an evening time dinner. Okay, when we say the word barbecue that basically just means get together. Eat some food. Okay. So we got a bunch of doughnuts from the donut place in Bethel. We had hot coffee. We had we had snacks and we had water and we had invited anyone who wanted to come our idea was that we were just going to sit down and and kind of here why people felt the way they did there's always some thought process to how this person got to tube saying all lives matter when people say black Lives matter why is that so important to you and then we'll explain why black lives matter is so important to us.

2 (17m 58s):
The only problem was that Bethel was still in a very raw State because of everything that happened and I think everyone looked very kind of skeptically on our are luring them in with donuts. They thought that it was just gonna be another yelling with bullhorn. He's across the street. So what it ended up turning into is a bunch of black lives matter allies talking about how we can have conversations in our family units in our friend units at our jobs.

2 (18m 40s):
If we hear or see racist things happening to encourage people. Start standing up to start calling out that Uncle or grandpa or or friend that occasionally says racial

1 (18m 58s):
slurs. So I think that particular protest on June 14th in Bethel as almost anyone who sees the video would agree was sort of exceptional and perhaps got out of hand because of a lot of misinterpretation of what people were coming to Bethel to do that day. I wonder as someone who sort of initiated the conversations they're after what do you think is key to helping people think about what's On right now in the country in a new way and not having sort of these Hang-Ups about what they think black lives matter might be about from you know, I don't know watching Fox News and hearing a lot of talk about antifa.

1 (19m 46s):
Here's the thing about small

2 (19m 48s):
towns. One of the things that

1 (19m 51s):
I heard

2 (19m 53s):
so many times over and over again is you're not from our town. Get out you're not part of our community get out and when someone said to them, hey, I've lived here 20 years. I'm absolutely a part of this town

1 (20m 11s):
the the the

2 (20m 12s):
way the tension and the anger just melts away is probably surprising to people but the small town talking to small town idea. That's what is going to work. It's a simple and obvious. Lucien but for some reason not used as often as it should be we've been taught for so many

1 (20m 37s):
years if you want to keep your friends if you want to keep your family don't

2 (20m 41s):
talk about I think it's politics religion or money, right? We've been bred to

1 (20m 48s):
avoid difficult conversations. Have you had personal experience fostering progress by talking and listening to your own family to your own neighbors and And these small towns in Ohio

2 (21m 2s):
absolutely in my own family unit my aunt and uncle are are very conservative. Socially, the first time that my partner was a black man. I had to have a lot of difficult conversations with a lot of my family members that did not believe in interracial dating the one that really surprised me the most My grandma my grandma and grandpa grandpa specifically he was a racist, you know, and I shouldn't even try to sugarcoat it and that's the thing is that we do that too often.

2 (21m 43s):
We sugarcoat how bad it is because we love people when my Grandpa died my grandma held onto a lot of those same opinions and I remember her saying to me that my boyfriend would never be welcome in her home and I looked at her and I said well, that's a real shame because I love him and I would think that you loving me and me loving him that you would be happy for me and I walked out on the porch for a while and within 10 minutes. She came outside crying and said I do love you and I am happy for you. And I'm sorry these these old ways are hard to kick but I'll do I'll give it my best if you want to bring him over and I Not saying that every conversation would go that easily obviously,

1 (22m 35s):
but when you

2 (22m 36s):
put it out there and you stand up and you tell them that they're wrong and you tell them in a way that involves. Hey, I love you. But but what you said was not the right thing to say or in friend groups, you know, like a man. None of us say that kind of stuff. Why do you have to be like that? You know just just simple statements like that can can hang in a person's brain and it can really make a big difference in possibly changing their mind.

1 (23m 16s):
Rachel will thank you for having this conversation with me and I really I really appreciate your time and give our regards to freedom and

2 (23m 25s):
liberty. I absolutely well. I appreciate you showing

1 (23m 30s):
interest.