0 (1s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. Remember the day Russia invaded Ukraine and Volodymyr, Zelensky held a press conference. There was a rumor he'd fled Ukraine, not true. He said,

1 (12s):
Yeah, totally. Well, Yardena

0 (15s):
I'm here. My kids are here. Then he said this, the enemy has marked me as target. Number one, my family as target number two. Now this raised a question that has gone mostly unanswered, who exactly was trying to kill Volodymyr Zelensky

2 (31s):
No, who is rumored to be attempting to assassinate him. We do. We know that early on at the start of the invasion of Ukraine, there was talk that a group of Russian mercenaries known as the Wagner group had been assigned to take him out and to take out others in his government, in Kiev,

0 (52s):
Coming up a mercenary force, more dangerous than the Russian army and a woman who has spent years tracking them.

3 (1m 0s):
This episode is brought to you by Pollstar a car brand designing a future that's 100% electric Pollstar is saying no for all the right reasons, no empty promises, because Pollstar turns visions into reality. No greenwashing, because their words are set in stone. No conquering Mars, because earth is their priority. No compromises because the planet deserves real action. Get the full story and explore the Pollstar too. At pollstar.com.

5 (1m 30s):
This episode is brought to you by Cox contour TV. Find the entertainment you love with contour, TV and contour stream player. Learn more at Cox cox.com/contour

0 (1m 50s):
Mercenaries, not an easy group to report on Candace. Rando likes a challenge. She's the director of the future frontlines program at new America, a public intelligence service for democratic resilience and next gen security. And she's a professor at Arizona state, and she has answers about the mysterious Wagner group, who or what exactly is the Wagner group?

2 (2m 14s):
Well I'm in group is an amalgam of contingent contract, soldiers of fortune who operate out of Russia.

6 (2m 23s):
They have tampered with Western democracies, conducted high profile assassinations, taken over strategic lands and won wars.

2 (2m 32s):
They're often thought of as a sort of unitary body, just one company kind of like Blackwater. But the reality is they're actually different contingents that operate on different contracts for different parts of the ministry of defense in different parts of the emergency services ministry of Russia. And they've been around for a really long time. Russia's had some semblance of a private military security industry for the better part of 30 years, but what's new about the way the Wagner group is formed is they're more mobile they're on these short term contracts.

2 (3m 14s):
They rotate on and off of their official duties in the military. And they are now notorious for being involved in a lot of war crimes around the world, including in Ukraine

7 (3m 28s):
Methods have alarmed the UN and several NGOs with Wagner contractors accused of carrying out executions, rapes and torture in the course of their missions.

2 (3m 39s):
And in Syria,

8 (3m 40s):
Syria is where Russia boasted about testing more than 300 types of weapons

2 (3m 45s):
And Olympia.

9 (3m 45s):
Yeah, the Wagner group has enabled to have to hard to seize control of the country's biggest oil field, which produces 300,000 barrels a day

2 (3m 53s):
And Central African Republic,

10 (3m 55s):
Including mass shootings torture and the burning of villages.

2 (3m 60s):
They're thought to be run by a man named <inaudible>, who is very close to Vladimir Putin, but there are still some on unknown facts about how they actually operate and for whom and why

0 (4m 18s):
You said they're often compared to Blackwater, which is a private company that protects us business and military interests throughout the world. Actually, they don't sound like Blackwater at all, based on what you're telling me, it sounds more like it's a Hydra, there's a bunch of different heads coming off of the body.

2 (4m 37s):
That's totally right.

0 (4m 38s):
Okay. Okay. This is very interesting so that I imagine makes them even harder to identify. It's not like there's a Wagner group uniform,

2 (4m 46s):
Right? There is no Wagner group unit them that's right. You know, there are patches, you know, that have been seen. And you know, there are lots of social media accounts with these big bulky Russian guys sporting the kind of special forces uniforms, and then a Wagner patch with a skull and crossbones slapped onto the side of their uniforms. But that's right, that it is really a Hydra headed entity that has multiple different firms and multiple different contracts that it operates under. One very central part of how they work though, is the ministry of defense. Just like any other ministry of defense in the world has a procurement arm.

2 (5m 29s):
That's responsible for providing logistics and support to forward troops in the field, actual official military forces that subsidiary that procure treatment arm is responsible for hiring logistics fulfillment. So you use the folks who make sure that there's everything in place in terms of electronic warfare, everything in print, in place in terms of long-range missiles, they're the ones who pick out targets. They're the Scouts, they're the secret kind of espionage spies that are, they're oftentimes not in uniform, right? They're there incognito. They like to refer to themselves even as tourists.

2 (6m 10s):
Wow. There's a whole kind of mythology around them. So they have a lot of culture that seems to unify them. But natural fact, they are, you know, independent contractors that mostly work for state enterprises that are hired by the ministry of defense.

11 (6m 25s):
Majority of the Wagner forces, as far as we know, come from smaller cities across Russia, where we're times are hard, where times are tough and people are looking for money and Wagner pays pretty handsomely.

0 (6m 35s):
Okay. This is the organization that analysts suspect was dispatched you crane to kill Volodymyr Zelensky in early March, the UK government sanctioned the Wagner group. Now you've said, it's speculation. They're involved in an assassination plot. Do the UK sanctions convince you that it is something more than just speculation?

2 (6m 55s):
What it suggests me is that the UK like the United States is struggling to understand what the Wagner group is. You know, if you're going to sanction an entity, you should know what its organizational structure is. And it's pretty clear to me that if you're sanctioning the Wagner group, you don't really fully understand how the business of contract soldiers works in Russia. I think what the west is missing is that there is literally no legal entity called the Wagner group. There is a group of companies that are very well known to be associated with Russian mercenary operations. One very famous one, ever posts.

2 (7m 36s):
That company is one of several shell companies that has been used to provide salaries, travel, and airplane travel for Russian mercenaries as well as equipment. So that has been well-documented. And that, you know, that particular company ever pull is, has been the subject of a great deal of scrutiny from us authorities and has been properly sanctioned because it is an entity that does exist legally in St. Petersburg, Russia. There are lots of other companies affiliated with ever Polis or at least believed to be linked to of Guinea provisions empire. However, there is no Wagner group company.

2 (8m 19s):
There is no LLC Wagner group, right? And so to sanction, it is to kind of suggest you don't really know exactly how to get your arms around the problem.

0 (8m 30s):
Where did this group get their name? Because based on everything you've told me, there is not some dude named Wagner running around. This is a, this is something a little different going on.

2 (8m 40s):
The name came from a man named Dimitri, Ken, who is a airborne paratrooper veteran. He actually was a veteran of the Afghanistan war in Soviet times in the late eighties. So Dimitri pumpkin is sort of this legendary helicopter pilot who, you know, fought in Afghanistan. <inaudible> yeah. He's like, you know, hard as nails and there's all this mythology around him. And sometime, you know, in his career early on, he adopted the call sign Wagner. Huh? Now here's why, I mean, this is kind of weird, but if you ever remember the movie apocalypse, now

12 (9m 23s):
I love the smell of bread coming in the morning, smells like

2 (9m 29s):
There's this like really famous scene where all these American helicopters are swooping down on this open beach in Vietnam, they're getting ready to attack. Right. And there's this huge kind of like crushing sound of helicopters. And suddenly one of the, I think the lead helicopter pilots flips on a switch and outcomes Wagner's ride of the Valkyries really loud. Right,

0 (9m 60s):
Right. Sing it. It's like bump of a bum.

2 (10m 5s):
Right. So this scene, you know, is kind of like the call and response of this guy, Dimitri, Luca, and it's, it's the scene that inspired his call sign and his nickname. And it also obviously speaks to his, this idea that he's a killer, right? And that he's a machine that's out to mow down, whatever gets in his way. So Wagner starts there. It starts with this one guy who had kind of an obsession with apocalypse now and adopted this nickname.

0 (10m 52s):
They seem to be suggestions that can, has either Nazi sympathies or Nazi leanings.

2 (10m 60s):
Well, that's actually a really important part of why the ride of the Valkyries in that scene from apocalypse now is so important to understanding the Wagner group mythology because the right of the Valkyries of course was composed by Richard Wagner, who was Hitler's favorite composer. Oh,

0 (11m 19s):
Wagner.

2 (11m 20s):
Yeah. Oh, that guy

0 (11m 31s):
Tell me about your Guinea progression. The man who's believed to run them own them, operate them. I mean, all of these words seem rather useless if we don't truly understand the inner workings, but who is this man who they might answer to? In some sense,

2 (11m 49s):
Is a St. Petersburg native who came of age around the same time as Vladimir Putin. In fact, they came up together.

14 (11m 57s):
He's been at Vladimir Putin side for years.

2 (11m 60s):
<inaudible> ended up in prison for about nine years early in the 1990s. And when he got out, he and his father launched a Siskey business, they were selling hot dogs, basically sausages in St. Petersburg. It was very, very successful business. And over time he became a pretty good restaurant tour.

14 (12m 19s):
I went on to run a catering company, servicing schools, the military, the Kremlin and dinners for visiting us presidents.

2 (12m 28s):
And so he became very close to Putin over time and, and also became his personal chef. Wow. Sometime around 2008, 2009, this guy who was just a caterer basically started to win a lot of military contracts. And it was at that point that he also started to kind of expand his logistics operations. And so some of these companies that are now associated with the Wagner group and his operations started around that time. And that's really, you have Guinea precautions, origin story. And since then he's been, become famously associated with all kinds of things, including the internet research agency,

14 (13m 9s):
The Mueller indictment also linked per goes in to a Russian disinformation campaign to discredit Hillary Clinton and help Donald Trump in the 2016 election.

0 (13m 20s):
Okay. They are adjacent to lots of types of corruption. What distinguishes them as fighters? What are they known for

2 (13m 28s):
One thing that they're very well known for his long range artillery operations. And so that's why there's sometimes called the music content. That is the musicians. They are essentially the orchestrators of the great Thundurus artillery war that Russia has been conducting and all kinds of places, including Ukraine, but also in Syria. So that's one of the big things that they're known for is operating these large scale anti air force missile batteries, as well as long range, military operations for artillery missiles and so forth.

2 (14m 8s):
So they're really very key for reconnaissance missions as well. They often go undercover. They scope out locations that are important for targeting. They are really important for fascination Koons, as well as you know, all kinds of information operations. They are essentially the kind of spooky soldiers of afforded operations for Russia

16 (14m 53s):
Support for the Saturday, comes from thorn with an E at the end, thorn with an E at the end, it's here to help you feel good about aging from the inside out. That sounds nice. Thorn empowers you with personalized information and solutions to take proactive steps towards healthy aging, towards healthy aging, who doesn't want to do that. They're testing provides individual data, which they use to educate you about your body and the best supplement formulas to support your health goals and needs take for instance, their collagen plus powder Heyo, unlike a more typical collagen product collagen plus features a dream team of skin health ingredients, including plant extracts that have been clinically studied to support beauty from within and at the end of the day.

16 (15m 48s):
Isn't that what it's all about to learn more, visit thorn.com. I will stress it's thorn with an e@theend.com

17 (16m 6s):
It's earth month here at box. So unexplainable is exploring some of the most fascinating mysteries of the ocean.

18 (16m 16s):
It's like interstellar travel while staying here on this planet, it

19 (16m 20s):
Was a fireworks display.

18 (16m 22s):
The closest we can come to that kind of alien contact moments,

19 (16m 27s):
A movement you make triggers, flashes all around you. These vortices of neon blue liquid light would just shoot up and mixed in would be blowing blew embers.

18 (16m 40s):
How much more different can you get from our way of being,

17 (16m 43s):
If you want to hear about everything from underwater light shows to a lost city of octopuses, subscribe to unexplainable, new episodes, every Wednesday, wherever you get your podcasts

19 (16m 55s):
Exploring is better than sex. All the thrill. And none of the baggage

16 (17m 5s):
Hydro died with the red score

20 (17m 7s):
Cuddle one head, the more shall take it to place

0 (17m 11s):
Back with Candice rando, who has spent years researching the Wagner group, the region in Eastern Ukraine, where Russia has an offensive underway. The Don boss, that was one of the places that first drew attention to Russia's mercenaries. Now this is eight years ago, Russia invaded the Don boss and these guys showed up to fight, but they were not wearing military uniforms, little green men, everyone started calling them. So they've been in Ukraine for a long time. They are not confined to Eastern Europe though.

2 (17m 40s):
I think the clearest snapshot of how the Wang group operates outside of Russia outside of Ukraine is to look at Syria. Ukraine was the first laboratory for this kind of experimentation using Russian mercenary forces. And then Syria was the second one. And we know that there was already a presence there of Russian contract soldiers who are guarding <inaudible> regime, especially VIP's. And then of course the military base at Tartu. They had a presence there. So we know even before Russia became officially involved in the Syrian war in 2015, that there was already a Russian mercenary presence inside the country.

2 (18m 22s):
But what happened after 2015 is that that presence expanded and they became the kind of tip of the spear for training and equipping local Syrian militias to assault ISIS forces, but also rebel forces operating against the Bashar regime, but they were much, much more important than this is the key piece. They were very key for securing strategic oil and gas resources in Syria. This was the centerpiece of Russia's strategy for making sure that outside would stay in power. It's not that Syria is a big exporter of oil and gas, but the kind of oil and gas that they export is very big for Europe.

2 (19m 9s):
And it's also really important in terms of where it sits just geographically, relative to Europe, which of course is the biggest client and the biggest buyer of Russian oil and gas. And so that was a really important part of the wagon group's operations is to capture these different oil and gas fields. And you may remember this in February, 2018, Russian mercenaries tried to take over a gas field that was owned by Conoco Phillips and American firm.

0 (19m 40s):
Yes, I do remember that

14 (19m 42s):
We drove to the Conoco oil and gas refinery. Now what U S base it's the first time reporters have been here since American troops came under attack on this spot last month by 500 fighters, including Russian mercenaries and international incident shrouded in secrecy.

2 (19m 60s):
There was a big clash there between us forces that were fighting ISIS on the other side of the Euphrates river and had actually been occupying that ConocoPhillips plant. And th that clash led to an estimated 200 Russian mercenary deaths, just that one night in February, 2018. Wow. And that's really when the world started to wake up to this problem posed by Russian mercenaries for the challenge to us power. And most importantly, for the risk that they might escalate conflict between Russia and the United States in a very direct way.

0 (20m 33s):
Candice, the Russian army is being criticized right now for brutality against civilians. Wagner is kind of an elite fighting force. Are they more disciplined

2 (20m 43s):
By no means, oh, these are very undisciplined soldiers. And we know that because we know more about them than we should simply from their social media accounts. We also know more about their war crimes in the Syria context and in the Central African Republic context and in Libya because they're, they're big fans of coasting their war crimes online.

8 (21m 8s):
A series of videos emerged beginning in 2017 revealing one of the most disturbing incidents of the war in Syria and on our man taunted and tortured by four Russian speaking men in military fatigues, They pin him down and with a sledgehammer, they repeatedly strike his feet and his hands.

2 (21m 30s):
And there's a very famous case in 2017 involving the beheading of a Syria national by the name of Hamdi Butta who had come home from Lebanon, where apparently he was working as a bricklayer and returned to his native Syria, but got caught along the way and was press ganged into service into a Russian run, a militia in Syria. He escaped, but not for long. He was recaptured. And that recapturing led to his on-camera torturing and dismemberment and then burning.

2 (22m 10s):
And that became a viral clip. It's a four minute video clip of one of the worst crimes against humanity that I've ever seen. I think most of the world would be shocked if they'd seen, seen that video. And weirdly that video became a meme, became literally a meme and a profile picture adopted by thousands and thousands of soldiers and fortunes online. Almost like a badge of honor, They're putting it online because it's sort of to them, it's proof that they are bringing it to the enemy.

2 (22m 51s):
You know, it's kind of like a trophy, you know, the old days in these really brutal wars almost medieval, right? Somebody would lob off in a year or take a finger and then sling it around their neck, like a necklace. Well, instead they just create these viral videos and posted online and then adopt it as their profile picture.

0 (23m 18s):
Candace, do we know who is paying these guys?

2 (23m 21s):
The Russian state,

0 (23m 22s):
The Russian state, not the Syrian government, it's the Russian state?

2 (23m 26s):
Well, there are some very creative arrangements. I should say that, you know, at the bottom line, it's the Russian state, because for the most part, they work on contract for the ministry of defense ministry emergency services or for a state run enterprise that is somehow protected by the mod or protected by the emergency services through legislation. And so the reality is that's the bottom line payer, but these front companies, these shell companies that I mentioned that <inaudible> has contacts with and is believed to be the main owner of they're the real payer right on paper.

2 (24m 7s):
But the reality is the banker is Gazprom. The banker is, you know, Ross tech, which is of course the arms maker for Russia. You know, the banker is, you know, all these other large scale state enterprises that the criminal relies on for hard currency for real dollars to come into the country.

0 (24m 25s):
Let me ask you for a 3000 foot view, Vladimir Putin is trying to reclaim Ukraine. He says, it's part of Russia. It belongs to Russia. Is there evidence that this group is operating on Putin's behalf, on Russia's behalf, in the middle east and Africa on the same kind of principle, like they're there to exert Russian influence.

2 (24m 48s):
There's no question that they're operating on Putin's behalf on the Kremlin's behalf and that they are doing so to project power beyond Russia's borders and to give the world the sense that Russia is everywhere and can do anything at any time and pose a threat. In some ways the Wagner group, even as an idea, is a deception operation because it's not a real entity yet. Now the U S the EU other countries around the world are chasing this fictional group that doesn't exist on paper. And it isn't really a legal entity.

2 (25m 28s):
And they're throwing a lot of resources at a fiction

0 (25m 39s):
Today's show was produced by Hadi Milwaukee, D engineered by Paul mousey. Fact-checked by Matthew collect and edited by Matthew Collette in me, I'm Noel king it's today explained

21 (26m 32s):
This episode is sponsored by Salesforce customer 360, you're unique. And so is your customer Salesforce customer 360 gives you a more holistic view by uniting all your marketing sales, commerce service, and it around a shared view of your customer. The result your employees have everything they need to do their best work and give your customers an amazing experience to learn about what Salesforce customer 360 can do for your business. Visit salesforce.com/customer 360.