0 (1s):
Russia started its war in Ukraine with the goal of seizing, the capital Kiev that didn't work. Russia, couldn't pull it together. Militarily. Now the war's main front is in Ukraine, south in the cities of Zia and Heron. Russia wants to annex these areas and is fighting a two-pronged war there. One prong is spooking. The international community Zia has a nuclear power plant and someone is shelling it.

1 (26s):
The United States continues to closely monitor reports regarding the situation at the Zia facility, noting considerable concern regarding the risk of a nuclear incident that would endanger the people of Ukraine, neighboring states and the international community.

0 (42s):
Ukraine blames, Russia, Russia, blames Ukraine. The other prong is subtler and it crossed our radar a few weeks ago. When we learned that Russia is recruiting teachers to go work in Southern Ukraine, why would they be doing that? Coming up on today, explained

Citi (60s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them. The world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg.

DirecTV (1m 43s):
This is brought to you by direct TV stream. Direct TV stream brings you the live TV you love. That means you can stay up to the minute on 24 hour live news from entertainment to current events, wherever you are in the us, whether that's at home on your TV or streaming on the go and you get your favorite live sports. So you can catch this season's biggest games. Get the best of live TV with direct TV stream. Get your TV together@directtv.com.

0 (2m 18s):
It's today explained AB Noel king Layla Lativa is a reporter with the Moscow times. It's an independent English language, newspaper. Layla. When did you first notice that Russia was recruiting teachers to go to Ukraine and teach there?

5 (2m 32s):
So we started catching wind of that. About a month ago, we did see, you know, some reports that teachers or students at specialized institutions that train future teachers in Russia at universities, they have received messages, inviting them to go and work in Russia's occupied or how Russia calls it in the liberated territories. It's a very kind of hush, hush affair, most such postings. They are advertised through private channels. So usually in like teachers chat groups on WhatsApp, for example, or other close social media groups, they have been some teachers who noted that they have seen official directives from Russia's ministry of education that advertise such positions too.

5 (3m 23s):
There is of course, like no way to verify that journalists have not seen those documents, but it is quite possible given the strategy that Russia is using in the conflict.

0 (3m 35s):
Why would Russia be doing this? What's the point of recruiting Russian teachers to go to Ukraine?

5 (3m 41s):
That's what colonizers do, right? That's that's how, that's what empires do. And, and since the very early days of the war, we have seen, you know, Western Ukrainian observers alike saying that it is a colonial war and it is, you know, so for Russia, of course, it's a way to push their narrative, push that propaganda and establish themselves in occupied territories.

0 (4m 8s):
What was Russia using to induce people to want to go to Ukraine and teach

5 (4m 14s):
Huge salaries by Russian standards? Yeah. So from what we were able to decode, you know, teachers are usually offered salaries that are about up to 13 times what they might have been paid in Russia. Russia's statistics agency. For example, they put an average teacher's salary at around like $700 a month. But for example, in Pakistan, that's the Republic in north caucuses. It has some of the lowest, lowest salaries and teachers there get paid usually $300 a month. So in Ukraine for those people who go to the occupied territories, the occupation authorities, or the Russian government that represents them in this case, they promise a monthly salary of about $4,000.

5 (5m 1s):
So you can imagine that's completely unimaginable reaches for those teachers. And important note of that is in fact, from what we know Pakistan, that I've mentioned actually provided the highest number of recruited teachers at about 57 60 people.

0 (5m 27s):
Tell me a little bit more about this propaganda driven education. How might my classroom learning change if I was a seventh or eighth grade student who got a Russian teacher versus a Ukrainian teacher

5 (5m 40s):
With the secrecy overall, we dunno exactly. You know, what changes of the curriculum will be implemented. We do know, and what Russian ministry of education said before that they are planning to implement quote, high quality Russian standards, or, you know, so what that might mean is, you know, we have an example of Don best, the Donette people's Republic, the Hans people republics the two separatist regions where the war initially broke out in 2014,

6 (6m 9s):
Pro Russian protestors took over Donette's regional parliament building declared Donette's independent and called a referendum from may the 11th.

5 (6m 17s):
So a Ukrainian expert on education, policy and memory who I was speaking to, you know, they really believe that it probably will be kind of the same agenda that Russia will be following as they did since 2014 in the so-called Dawn bass region in Don bass, they kind of completely removed all mentions of Ukraine and started focusing on local history, kind of, you know, removing this whole idea that they were once part of Ukraine, it started, you know, very heavily reliant on this narratives of belonging to the so-called Russian world. You know, there is this concept of Ruski.

5 (6m 57s):
That's what Russia calls it, that, you know, there is this big Russian SL brotherhood that Russia is protecting.

0 (7m 7s):
You went to school in Russia. What were, what were your history classes? Like?

5 (7m 11s):
I went to school in the early two thousands. So for lack of a better word, there was still some freedom in my education. And I know gradually, especially in the past 10 years, Russia started overemphasizing the role of key Empress and emphasis like Katherine, the grade and Peter the grade

7 (7m 32s):
And in Russia, president Putin is doing some chest pumping over his invasion of Ukraine on Thursday. He compared himself to Peter, the great Russian emperor who defeated Sweden in the 18th century,

5 (7m 47s):
Just pushing that, you know, strong empire narrative. And then of course in Russian curriculum, even when I was at school, there is, there has always been a disproportionate emphasis on Russia's role in world war II, where Russia calls it the great patriotic war. And, you know, it's very interesting because for example, the Mo ribbon Trump packed, you know, in Russia's invasion of Poland and the attack on its Eastern neighbors, you know, prior to 1941 was never discussed. So it's a very skew narrative.

5 (8m 28s):
And, but I think the most fascinating, you know, part of Russian schooling that I went through is military education classes. You learn how to load and unload AK 47, how to put on a gas mask. And that's part of your education. And, you know, you have these competitive games in like basic military training that all students participate in

6 (8m 55s):
A summer

10 (8m 55s):
Holiday playing war. These colos Niko machine guns may not be loaded with real bullets, but at RAs, but camp, the boys are learning how to handle them. The kids here are aged between 10 and 16.

5 (9m 10s):
In fact, since the invasion begun, Russian senators kind of started talking that this should be introduced in every single school in the country for now. It's kind of selective region by region, but Russia is really pushing for it to be a uniform thing.

0 (9m 31s):
We've spoken to so many Ukrainians since the war started, who say, we are very proud. We are not giving up. We are not going to allow ourselves to be brainwashed. What makes Russia think this is gonna work?

5 (9m 43s):
The Ukrainian experts I spoke with reminded me that, you know, Russia used that in Ukraine in 39 and 40, and then after the world war II, after the Nazi occupation ended in Western Ukraine, Russia will then, you know, Soviet union and Russia as its Imperial core sent Russian teachers to Western Ukrainian areas for exactly the same purpose as it's doing today. As you know, an analyst, I do think that Russia is a bit miscalculating with the strategy. It's very difficult to understand why, you know, it's choosing to rely so heavily on propaganda and at the same time, forsaking, you know, for example, providing basic services to people, which would seem like an easier right way to piece the population.

5 (10m 32s):
That's what we know from other conflicts. And unfortunately, a lot of militant groups, that's how they successfully, you know, at these populations is by first providing basic services. But Russia is really heavily relying on propaganda. You know, Russia is an empire within Russia's borders. There are multiple ethnic republics and Russia did successfully, you know, rewrite histories of those places and has been teaching children in those places, kind of very Russia loving version of what happened to their nations. So Russia does have experience with it, but it took years to do that.

5 (11m 14s):
You know, I honestly do not see how Ukrainian adults, Ukrainian kids, you know, who lived in an independent thriving democratic state for years right now are gonna, you know, turn to people who destroyed their homes and, you know, just swallow that propaganda, believe it. I just do not see that happening. Is it

0 (11m 37s):
Only teachers Leila or is Russia trying to import Russians to do other types of jobs in Ukraine?

5 (11m 44s):
I have seen particularly bricklayers roof, mechanics, painters, and welders. So, you know, alongside teachers, there will be workers coming. So in kind of, you know, the Russian version of Craigslist, which is called ATO, there also have been different postings for, to come and partake in what they call the reconstruction of Don bass. So this campaign has been far more, you know, publicized than the teachers want advertisements are out in the open. I in fact, tried to contact several of those listings. And what interested me in particular is that this advertisements, they promise this big salaries meals, free transportation, et cetera, but there is no mention of safety at all.

5 (12m 38s):
No mention of what will happen to you. You know, when Ukraine starts counter offensive, When I would speak to advertisers, they would, you know, hang up on me, stop talking to me when I, the second I've mentioned, what about safety? And you know, I mean, it's same thing with teachers. And we have seen the teacher's Alliance. That's a Russian watchdog, which is linked to now jailed Kremlin critic, Alex Naval. They have a kind of warned Russian teachers who listen to them, that you understand that you might come back quote in a body bag.

5 (13m 19s):
You know, once Ukraine starts overtaking their territory, there is also a campaign to recruit volunteers. And right now, you know, Russia state channels, they cite that at least 700 people have partaken in volunteer missions in occupied territories. So there are multiple volunteer groups, they're all linked in one way or another to the state and usually the ruling United Russia party. So from what we've heard, you know, volunteers, they go there, some work with kids. They have been some medic volunteers going to occupied areas.

5 (14m 1s):
Some, you know, usually young students who go, they say that they hand out humanitarian aid and some say that they help, you know, with certain policing activities as they call them. So usually, you know, it's literal screenings of Ukrainian population. And, you know, even on a higher level, Russia has appointed a lot of Russian officials to top positions in occupied territories. They also bring their own. So it's a whole effort at diversification

0 (14m 37s):
Coming up after the break, sending teachers and brick layers is just Russia's first move to crucify, occupied Ukraine,

Ramp (14m 52s):
Anybody running a business has a lot to keep track of. There are receipts and orders and payments and people who want free stuff ramp can't help you with those people, but their finance software can help you with some of the other stuff. Ramp is a corporate card and financial software suite designed to help you save time and put money back in your pocket. Here's how it works. Ramp gives your team a clear look at what your company is spending. You can use it to build budgets, automate expense reports and issue cards to every employee with different limits and restrictions. The software automatically collects receipts and categorizes expenses in real time, which means less work. Plus it's easy to use. Takes 15 minutes to get started. I'm told whether you have five employees or 5,000. Right now you can get $250 when you join ramp, go to ramp.com/explained ramp.com/explained one more time for the people in the back ramp.com/explained

Citi (15m 53s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology, that money will help provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. But that's just a start. Having ambitious goals is what helps the world make meaningful progress. And it's going to take all of us working together to make sure we continue to move in the right direction because to address these worldwide problems, it's going to take worldwide action. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg

0 (16m 58s):
Today explained we're back with Piore sour. He's Russia affairs correspondent for the guardian. Piore beyond importing brick layers and teachers and politicians into occupied Ukraine. How is the Kremlin trying to reify these areas?

12 (17m 12s):
Russia has started to hand out Russian passports, for example, in occupied areas. And I've, I've been talking to people in hair sauna in Zakia who tell me that without the Russian passport, you can't start a business or you can't get certain benefits. So they're really putting pressure on, on locals giving them no choice, really, but to take Russian passport, we've seen billboards all around those areas, massive billboards, which say, you know, we are Russia. This will always be Russia. We'll never leave you. So a real sort of intense propaganda machine is going on. The, the currency has been changed. Theism is introduced. Russian products are now sold in stores. All Ukraine products are gone.

12 (17m 52s):
So I think if you're living there, they're really trying to make it feel like you're living in Russia, not in your motherland in Ukraine

0 (17m 60s):
And notably, none of these things that you just told us about involve killing people. Many people have died during this invasion, but, but these are non-lethal tactics. What is Russia trying to do by using tactics that don't kill people, but instead try to force them to be Russian.

12 (18m 19s):
Well, Russia's really laying the grounds for an annexation Hmm. For a referendum, for a vote that is expected to, to happen sometime in September, probably they need some sort of voter turnout. So they're really trying to, to, to create conditions for a referendum.

0 (18m 36s):
And, and what do you imagine the question of that referendum will be when it's put to voters, they'll be asked what,

12 (18m 42s):
Probably something a very sort of simple, do you want to be part of Russia or, or, or not? Wow, but I think we have to be hugely skeptical of this referendum and how it will go from every point of international law. This is completely illegal, of course. And any election Russia, we have to be very skeptical about also domestic election presidential elections. We've seen how Russia is good at managing elections and faking them.

0 (19m 6s):
There's a spokesman at the white house, John Kirby. And he, he made the statement that we noticed. He said, Russia's following an annexation playbook suggesting that Russia has done this before. Where recently,

12 (19m 20s):
Well, eight years ago, Russia did this. Of course in Crimea. Some of the things we see are very similar. The first step for Russia after the troops entered was to appoint local officials that were willing to switch sites, which we've seen in, in these occupied areas happening as well. You know, Ukraine considers some traders for that. Then we've seen that Russia is very quick to shut down all access to Ukrainian and Western information.

13 (19m 46s):
It's hard to tell because I'm from, don't ask, there are only Russian programs on the television there. Now I came to see my son in Kiev and they're only Ukrainian programs. How can I compare them? How can I say who to believe

12 (19m 59s):
You can't get access to Ukrainian television anymore? So Persia has banned Google, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, similar things happen in Heron. So they're making sure that the people that have stayed can only get access to Russian information in mural, the city that was destroyed, we've even seen these bizarre images of big vans with TV screens driving around the destroyed city.

15 (20m 27s):
What they're doing is cutting off Ukrainians from Ukrainian news, Western news and European websites, well bombarding them with Russian state media.

12 (20m 35s):
So, you know, I think for Russia's very important to cut off the Ukrainians of any independent information. And then what we've seen also is the handout of passports, similar to CIA. So if

16 (20m 46s):
I want to come back here, I'm gonna need a Russian visa.

17 (20m 49s):
Yes, you should do it. Crime is not. Your grain crime will be Russian Federation.

12 (20m 54s):
As part of the playbook also is Russia's use of resources in these areas that they've already been doing. They've been shipping tons and tons of grain out of Caron and as a pre to Turkey and to Syria sort of appropriating these lands as if they're already Russian. And the final really step is they've set up elections, which are supposed to organize these referendums.

0 (21m 27s):
Why would Russia want to Russia and hold a referendum? Why not spend more time trying to bring people around?

12 (21m 34s):
Well, so Ukraine has been actually quite open about the fact that they really want to win back the south

15 (21m 39s):
Ukraine's strongest statements have indicated that it wants to take back everything that Russia has occupied

18 (21m 46s):
More and

12 (21m 50s):
Need to remember that Harrison Zia to strategic areas for Ukraine, they, they have access to the black sea. They're also the bread basket of Ukraine and people say the bread basket of the world, huge agricultural area. So without them, Ukraine will have a very hard time to be an economically striving independent country. So for Ukraine, it was always a priority to win back these areas. And with all, all the Western weapons they've been receiving most not to be the high Mars Ukraine officials have, you know, becoming more confident. And they've been more vocal about launching a operation into Southern Ukraine, into occupy Ukraine. And we're seeing the first steps of this.

12 (22m 31s):
For example, the, the attack on the Cian airbase

19 (22m 35s):
This morning, a brazen attack on a Russian airbase in Crimea. These verified videos circulating online shows two massive explosions and beach go is running for cover as a cloud of smoke pauses into the sky and the distance.

0 (22m 49s):
So you have these territories, they are occupied, they haven't yet had the referendum. Tell me what the resistance to that looks like.

12 (22m 58s):
It's tough to get real accurate information out of Harrison. And Zaia, it's important to say that because people are scared to talk to journalists, journalists, themselves, Western journalists can't travel there. So we're hearing bits and pieces, and I've been talking to people from there. We know there is a resistance movement going on for obvious reasons. Those people don't wanna identify themselves, but we've seen attacks on pro Russian officials, car bombings of pro Russian officials, pro Russian officials have gotten so scared that when they're shown on Russian national television, their faces are blown out.

12 (23m 42s):
And the faces of the family members are blown out because Russian knows that there are sort targets for Ukraine. So there is a resistance. There's also a lot of, you know, small acts of resistance teachers that don't want to teach in the Russian curriculum and, and are quitting. A lot of Ukrainians simply have left. Those cities. A lot of men have left those cities. A lot of people have stayed behind, are older people who can't leave. So, so, you know, that's one of the reasons why the economy is not really going anywhere because there's just a huge brain brain.

0 (24m 19s):
How is the Ukrainian government in key of talking about this attempt at Russification? If, if a seventh grade teacher from Russia or a brick layer from Russia shows up in occupied territory, are they treated as an enemy? If the Ukrainians catch them, how is it working?

12 (24m 35s):
We haven't had a precedent, but obviously if those teachers come to those areas and teaching their schools, they will be considered enemies. The more complicated question is what to do with Ukrainians living there and working there, you know, do you punish a Ukrainian teacher who has the choice either to teach or have no income at the moment? Ukrainian officials have said that if Ukrainian teachers will teach the Russian curriculum, they will be considered traders. Oh

0 (25m 1s):
Wow.

12 (25m 1s):
But at the same time, they're relaxing some of the rules before, basically anyone who continued to work in those areas could fall under treason law. Now they've eased that up a little bit, and now they only consider treason those who specifically work with the Russian government. So, so they're, they're relaxing laws a bit, cuz they, they realize that people also have to survive and, and you know, eat something and, and have some income.

0 (25m 28s):
And if Ukraine doesn't manage to win back those lands, if Russia does successfully annex them, what are the implications of that? What is the significance of that?

12 (25m 36s):
Well, I think Russia will further become a pariah state. There will really be a no return back from sanctions. There will mean that Russia annexed the biggest erritory of land since the second world war through force, the west will not be able to negotiate a relief of sanctions. For example, as long as Russia occupies these lands, you know, these are millions of people under Russia occupation. So it'll be like Mia, but you know, tenfold and push Russia further away from any piece negotiations. And Zelensky has said himself, the Ukrainian president that if Russia does this, you know, there will be no peace talks at all. The stakes are very high

0 (26m 22s):
Today's show was produced by Halima Shaw and edited by Matthew collect. It was fact checked by Tori Dominguez and Laura Bullard and it was engineered by Paul mosey. I'm Noel king it's today explained.