1 (6s):
Sarah Pailin is back in the news for those of you too young to remember she used to be the governor of Alaska. She ran against Obama and Biden with the late Arizona Senator John McCain. And more recently she wrapped baby got back on the masked singer in costume as some kind of like Technicolor, Teddy bear. A lot of people like to credit Sarah Pailin as being some kind of pre Trumpy Trump. They share a lot of ticks, including a real love, hate thing with the media,

2 (40s):
Social media and activists like those you're seeing today, they help render the lame stream media powerless, and the people then are empowered. They can do their honor.

1 (53s):
And now she is suing the mainstream media for libel. She's saying the mainstream media made stuff up about her and not just any mainstream media, Sarah Pailin is going after the New York times trials,

0 (1m 6s):
The sort almost never make it to a

1 (1m 8s):
Jury. Erik Wemple has been covering the trial for the Washington post,

0 (1m 12s):
A trial that involves the most storied landmark media protection in American history. It's the 1964 actual malice test, which requires a public figure light Pailin to prove a hell of a lot, if they're going to prevail in a lawsuit against any media organization. So this is an enormous, enormous case in the sense that we don't often see this standard tested before a jury.

1 (1m 40s):
And if she wins, what kind of precedent could that say?

0 (1m 45s):
If Pailin were to win this case? I think it would probably encourage a lot of public figures, public officials, celebrities to come forth with suits, perhaps because, you know, if she can do it, they can do it. I think if she loses, there is a chance for significant ramifications as well. And that is that they could possibly appeal the case and try to overturn or append actual malice. That's something that the lawyer for Pailin have signaled that they might do if they lose the case. But

1 (2m 13s):
For digging into this actual malice test, we figured we should dial it back to the beginning of the story with Pailin and the NYT.

0 (2m 21s):
This story begins on June 14th, 2017. That was the day that James Hodgkinson, who was a leftist Trump hater open fired on a baseball field in Alexandria where a number of Republican lawmakers were practicing for an upcoming baseball game,

4 (2m 40s):
All out gun battle as Capitol hill police and Alexandria officers engaged alone gunmen among the first to be hit Republican whip. Steve Scully's.

0 (2m 52s):
It was the second attack on a congressional lawmaker in about six years because in 2011, Jared Lee Lauffner attacked a bunch of people in the Tucson parking lot where Gabby Giffords then rational representative was holding an event.

5 (3m 7s):
Weaknesses are reporting that they heard 15 to 20 gunshots and an event being held outside that supermarket. Of course, we do not know if any of the emotions that may have flooded over from the political midterms to any sort of play in this event. We do know that that that race was a very hotly, contested race. She won by, I believe two percentage points or even less up against a tea party, favorite

1 (3m 34s):
And the times publishes and editorial about these shootings.

0 (3m 39s):
So what happened in this 2017 editorial was the times was trying to make an argument, trying to fashion an argument about how political rhetoric had amped up the possibility that we would see political violence in this country. And they citing that 2011 shooting claimed that there was a quote unquote political incitement link between a map that Sarah Palin's political action committee had circulated before the loft in the shooting months before the Lochner shooting. In fact, as a lot of reporting indicated after that 2011 shooting, there was no link between that Sarah pack map and the Jared Lauffner shooting, but the times said there was this political incitement, like

1 (4m 34s):
What exactly did Penland take issue with in this editorial?

0 (4m 38s):
We're talking about two or three sentences that are in two paragraphs in the senatorial, the main passage

6 (4m 45s):
In 2011, when Jared Lauffner opened fire in a supermarket parking lot, grievously wounding representative, Gabby Giffords, and killing six people, including a nine-year-old girl. The link to political incitement was clear before the shooting, Sarah Palin's political action committee circulated a map of targeted electoral districts that put Mrs Giffords and 19 other Democrats under stylized cross.

0 (5m 12s):
And then in the next paragraph, they basically compare the two shootings. And they say,

6 (5m 17s):
Though, there's no sign of incitement as direct as in the Giffords attack liberals should of course holding

0 (5m 24s):
Two instances there where they're really, really, you know, their own factual territory, pretty much.

1 (5m 30s):
It was the times within its sort of editorial guidelines to write this, or was this, you know, objectively wrong?

0 (5m 42s):
I think that in today's media age opinion, writers get more and more leeway to sort of do what they do. And you know, that's always the commonly cited defense for what Fox news, Sean Hannity, Tucker Carlson they're opinion journalists, you know, there are talk show hosts, but in this case, the answer would be no, the times did not have the authority to say what it said, because it was directly contradicted by objective facts that had already been reported. And the New York times itself would acknowledge and does acknowledge that its opinions pieces need to be based on a commonly shared factual basis. And this was not anything close to that.

0 (6m 22s):
And so they published the editorial and they learned pretty quickly from Twitter that they had problems, Ross Douthat, who was a colleague and a conservative columnists at the times alerted the editorial page, editor, James Bennett via email to this problem.

6 (6m 36s):
I would be remiss if I didn't express my bafflement at the editorial that we just ran on today's shootings and political violence

0 (6m 44s):
Was clearly starting to get unnerved. He later testified he in sleep that night and sent an email to his colleagues at 5 0 8, the next morning saying, we need to get to the bottom of this and perhaps run a correction, but you know, we need to learn the truth. He said, Hmm, how

1 (6m 59s):
Does that go?

0 (7m 1s):
Well, I don't think it took them that long to figure it out because the editorial itself had linked to a story that debunked it. So right within the editorial itself was a link to an ABC news story saying, you know, that there's no link between the Sarah PAX map and what Jared Lee Lauffner had done. You know, and this is what made, I think the suit somewhat plausible is that this was really widely debunked. And for them to just insert this and say, it was fact, you could possibly think that it was evidence of reckless disregard or knowing falsehood, given that it had been anybody who followed this back then probably would have known

1 (7m 44s):
Corrects itself. But Sarah Pailin still decides to Sue

0 (7m 48s):
Yes, a hundred percent. She says she was harmed. And obviously she has been a critic of the New York times and the mainstream media for a really long time. You're seeing

3 (7m 57s):
Some

0 (7m 58s):
Idiots in the press in this case. I think that she had a genuine gripe and people who have dismissed her suit when, when her suit initially came out, I put a headline on my piece and it was a convincing lawsuit. And I took a lot of heat for that. And my response to those people who are upset with my original assessment is, well, you've probably never been accused by the New York times of inciting a mass murder. So I think it was a pretty serious thing.

1 (8m 26s):
So heading into this trial, what exactly do Sarah Pailin and her lawyers have to

0 (8m 30s):
Truth what Sarah Palin and her lawyers have to prove is one of two things, either the New York times published this falsehood fully knowing that it was false, or they have to prove that the times published it with reckless disregard as to its truth or falsity, which basically means they have to prove that the times entertain serious doubts about its truthfulness. And that's a real tough thing to do because you can't just document that they defied industry standards or industry guidelines or best practices as the wanks might say, they have to prove that James Bennet walked by like informational signposts telling him that this was wrong.

0 (9m 16s):
This case is pretty close because it's proven that James Bennett didn't click on various things that were right in his vicinity that would have alerted him to this false

1 (9m 26s):
And the trial after being delayed because Sarah pale and herself got the Rona started earlier this month. And James Bennett himself takes the stand at trial, right? What was his testimony?

0 (9m 39s):
You know, it was many hours. I found it kind of riveting. I think that he was tremendously measured, tremendously responsible and tremendously contrite. I mean, he said, you know, this was my mistake. I own it. One of the lawyers ask him, did you send the editorial back to Elizabeth Williamson after you finished your revisions? And he said, yes. And he, I think he sensed that answering the question might shift blame onto Elizabeth because maybe she didn't review it enough after he finished his edits. And he was like, I just want to be clear on something here. This was my fault. But it is true that after he put these edits in the story that his other colleagues did not really scrutinize those edits, one of the dynamics there is that James Bennett was a revered editor.

0 (10m 27s):
He was the top editor. He, it was kind of a forceful editor. And I don't think that people were inclined necessarily the challenge, his edits, the way they would be inclined to challenge someone lower down on the organizational hierarchy. If you understand what I'm saying, sure.

1 (10m 42s):
Was Sarah Pailin in the room for all of this.

0 (10m 46s):
Sarah Palin was in the room, I believe every day for the trial.

1 (10m 49s):
Yeah. And she eventually takes the stand too.

0 (10m 51s):
She eventually takes the stand. She bombed, it was catastrophic. In my view, she bombed, I think at every juncture, you know, she came off as authentic, a family person, someone who believes in her politics. I think that when she was originally being questioned by her friendly counsel, her own attorney, she did pretty well. But once they got into the nitty gritty of things, it just, it became a complete disaster. In my view, there was one point at which her attorney was questioning her about the editorial. And he asked her about her reaction to the editorial. And she starts talking about how everybody in her inner circle realized that she needed to respond again to the New York times as lies.

0 (11m 35s):
And so all of a sudden, the judge said, well again, what do you mean by again? Because it was pretty well established that this was a one-off, you know, this was a, the screen error by the New York times. And then she's like, yeah, well, you know, they did this before. And the judge was like, before the editorial was published, they did same thing. And they go back and forth and the judge says, what specifics do you have? And she says, well, you know, the link that they established between me and political incitement. And of course I don't have the articles in front of me here. And, and to anybody who's listening to Sarah Pailin for the past decade or so, you know that her broadsides against the media are these generic, broad brush, lame stream media things

7 (12m 21s):
Are these mainstream media characters to get all we weed up about that first, you have to ask yourself, have they ever, ever attended a Sunday school class even have they, didn't never heard this terminology before. And that's okay.

0 (12m 34s):
She's never really pushed to like state her tastes or build her tastes or cite supporting links and evidence. And so they were like, what are you talking about? And then this forest, a huge sidebar where they had to leave the courtroom. I think that their sidebars now are down the hall because of COVID, but they were in there for a good 10, 15 minutes trying to figure out this situation because they didn't want to poison the jury. Having the jury think that the New York times did this multiple times to Sarah Pailin, did she blow it that enough to blow her case? I mean, geez, I don't know. I can't put myself in the jury box, but I felt that blew an enormous hole in the credibility of her case, if only because the times put forth people who are real sober detail-oriented and they did not jump out of their own brief, you know what I mean?

0 (13m 25s):
They never once went over the line factually they never once really got the court to slip up and say, what are you talking about? They were just outstanding. You know, Hey, you know, in the context of having made this huge mistake, You could see how they all felt terrible about this mistake. And then Pailin comes up there. And she sounds like, you know, she's still on Fox news. The contrast with the New York times journalist was 100%.

9 (14m 24s):
I'm Heather Cox

10 (14m 24s):
Richardson and I'm Joanne Freeman.

9 (14m 27s):
We're the hosts of now. And then a weekly podcast that looks to the American past to make sense of our current political and cultural climate.

10 (14m 34s):
There's been a wave of headlines recently about book bans, school boards and state governments are trying to outlaw the teaching of books that they find objectionable from art Spiegelman's mouse to Toni Morrison's the bluest eye

9 (14m 49s):
This week on now. And then we're releasing first episode of a three-part series.

10 (14m 54s):
The series we'll dive deep into past book panics, explore why public school so often become ideological battlegrounds and dissect the interplay between book bans and political bullying, joy.

9 (15m 7s):
As we try to make sense of the role that bands have played in our national culture and explain why we're seeing so many bands today,

10 (15m 15s):
Listen for free on apple cafe.com or wherever you get your podcasts.

11 (15m 23s):
Have you ever wondered whether New York city bagels are really better because of the water or why the mafia got it, start in Sicily's lemon groves, or if those CBD infused seltzers actually do what they promise gastropub.

12 (15m 36s):
It is a podcast exploring food through the lens of science and history. Each episode journeys into the weird and wonderful as we uncover everything you never knew

11 (15m 45s):
About your favorite food. I'm Cynthia Graber and I'm Nicola Twilley. And whether you're obsessed with food or someone who wants to learn more about what's on your plate, we'd love for you to join us, listen and follow

12 (15m 56s):
Gastropod on apple or wherever you listen to podcasts.

13 (16m 4s):
Did you enjoy your week in New York city? You know, I did Katy and I wasn't sure I would at first New York is of course home to the liberal media elite, but Todd and the kids had a great time going to the central park and, and the FAO Schwartz and that goofy evolution museum,

1 (16m 25s):
Eric, it sounds like in your, in your eyes, at least Sarah Pailin kind of blew her argument here at this trial. And she might be blowing for her at least a golden opportunity to Sue the so-called mainstream media for libel and win. Why is it so hard to do that in the first place

0 (16m 43s):
In 1964, the New York times versus solving case the court decided that we need a robust political marketplace. We need a place where news organizations can feel emboldened to really, really criticize the people who make big decisions about our lives. And this was the

1 (17m 1s):
Supreme court.

0 (17m 2s):
This is the Supreme court, right?

14 (17m 4s):
<em></em> chief, catch it please. The

1 (17m 11s):
Court. What were the details of that case?

0 (17m 14s):
All in the context of civil rights.

15 (17m 21s):
So sad that we would get here on there over back then today knows that we are here and we are standing before the forces of power in the state of Alabama saying, we ain't gonna let nobody turn us around.

0 (17m 41s):
So the New York times was doing aggressive reporting in Alabama. This is where the case came from. The aggressive reporting on civil rights abuses in Alabama and the oppression of African-Americans in that state,

16 (17m 55s):
It was shot in the stomach. He was in critical condition. He says that he thinks,

0 (18m 1s):
And so the New York times ran an ad talking about police brutality or policemen's treatment of civil rights protestors. And it didn't even name this guy, but it sort of insinuated that a man named lb Sullivan, who was a commissioner in Alabama who had jurisdiction over the police, that he had engaged in some sort of misconduct. He sued the New York times he won. And this was part of a, kind of a campaign by people who were opposing the civil rights movement in Alabama. It was kind of a campaign to basically take the New York times out of the gate because there were other suits. There were winning big, big, big decisions.

0 (18m 42s):
I do believe that the New York times pulled out of covering Alabama for a while because of this. And the Supreme court said, look, no more of this. Th

1 (18m 51s):
This goes to the Supreme court and the Supreme court overturns the

0 (18m 54s):
Lower courts decision. Exactly, exactly.

17 (18m 57s):
The review, a judgment of the Supreme court of Alabama, which in our submission poses hazards for the freedom of the press not confronted since the early days of the Republic.

1 (19m 15s):
So how does this times versus Sullivan decision sort of set the standards for libel suits in the United States?

0 (19m 23s):
Basically it sends a signal that if you're a public official or a public figure, it sets the standard that listen, don't bother suing a news organization overall, you know, just an error, like if they screw up there and it's just like an honest mistake, you can't, you're not going to get anywhere. It's going to get tossed immediately. It will be a waste of your time. It'll be a waste of your lawyer's time. It'll be a waste of your money don't even bother. And for whatever, 57, 58 years, my feeling is that an entire culture has grown up around this case. You know, Hillary Clinton has many times she was trashed by Fox news, Barack Obama trashed by Fox news with some racist coverage and so on and so forth.

0 (20m 5s):
Those people, I think they no longer even think about suing because they know what the rules are and they know that they have to go through and prove state of mind. And that is just, this is the culture in our country that if you're big and powerful and rich, you just, basically, you got to deal with your bad press. How has

1 (20m 24s):
This decision been viewed in the decades that followed? Is it sort of a beloved decision, a ridiculed decision,

0 (20m 34s):
And which New York times versus Sullivan is a bedrock precedent for media organizations. It is as close to a Bible as we have, and it's constantly cited, but you know, even the youngest reporters who don't know anything, what they're talking about, they're like, oh, it's sexual. And that's not actual balance public figure, public figure. Even among people don't know a damn thing about it, they will site. And it is something that the media relies on, as I say, consciously. And just as a cultural matter, one of the things that is critical in discussing it though, is that some of the Supreme court justices have started to express misgivings about it. Justice Thomas for several years now has hammered this particular precedent saying that it's impossible to win libel cases.

18 (21m 19s):
Proliferation of false hoods is, and always has been a serious matter instead of continuing to insulate those who perpetrate lies from traditional remedies, like libel suits, we should give them only the protection. The first amendment requires

0 (21m 35s):
And Gorsuch recently expressed a willingness to review it. Although he didn't say I will definitely undo it. So there is more of a receptivity at the Supreme court level than we've had in a really long time.

1 (21m 49s):
Interesting. And this is happening all the while Sarah Palin's case has been pending exactly.

0 (21m 55s):
100% of the five years. Yes, yes, yes.

1 (21m 58s):
As Sullivan come up directly in her trial,

0 (22m 2s):
It has come up in her case in the sense that payloads lawyers file the documents saying, we think you should overturn actual malice that needs to happen here. Huh? They didn't think that the trial judge here in the federal court in New York state would overturn New York times versus Sullivan. But what they were doing was preserving the opportunity to appeal it later.

1 (22m 25s):
I mean, if it did make it up to the Supreme court and the Supreme court decided if, if Gorsuch and Thomas let's say prevailed and they undid this precedent, if they overruled the precedent, what kind of impact would that have?

0 (22m 42s):
I mean, if they overruled this, I'm not sure exactly what would prevail in its place. But if you went to a default, just negligent standard in media coverage of public figures, you would find a lot more careful. And I would say restrained coverage of American politics, local politics, regional politics, celebrities, business, everything. I think the media would be significantly deterred and chilled. Who would it

1 (23m 8s):
Affect most though?

0 (23m 9s):
I think affect Fox news.

1 (23m 12s):
It's going to say

0 (23m 13s):
Fox news would suffer the most. They by far litter, the, you know, American discourse with more damaging falsehoods that any other news organization, this is legal welfare for Fox news. This is the legal welfare act for Fox news. And people don't see it that way. Like the people on the right are like, yeah, these mainstream media people who then sell the New York times himself with their, you know, feeding off of that. And it's like, no, I mean, right now the ne the Fox news is relying on this case. This precedent, this bedrock American media protection in defending itself against the lawsuits filed by smart MADEC and dominion over the big lie.

0 (23m 53s):
And that is the great irony of the conservative backing reviewing New York times versus Sullivan.

1 (24m 0s):
Right? Cause you're saying that Sarah Pailin beloved Fox news commentator talking head in suing the New York times for an actual error that the New York times would admit that it made might actually make it easier to Sue Fox news.

0 (24m 19s):
That could happen. It's, it's, it's kind of fun. It's kind of far off as a scenario, but that's within the realm of possibility.

1 (24m 26s):
You're saying that Sarah Pailin right here could be making the world a better place.

0 (24m 34s):
Well, that's not my view. I think media organizations thrive in this country because of New York times versus Sullivan. And I am squarely in favor of it. And I know that I have a conflict of interest there because it protects me as well, but it protects you too. It's the greatest, bi-partisan constitutional bedrock right now that we have in this country, I think. And I think that it's important. People realize that go ahead and hammer the New York times, but just keep in mind that your favorite news organization has at one point or another relied on this precedent as well.

1 (25m 14s):
Erik Wemple is the media critic for the Washington post, where you can read much more about this trial. Our show today was produced by will read edited by Matthew Collette engineered by a FIM Shapiro and fact checked by Richard SEMA and Laura Bullard. I'm Sean Ramez from it's today explained