3 (1s):
Can you tell me your name and what grade you're in?

1 (4s):
I'm Ben Ben Kafka and I am in sixth grade at Ms. 849. My name is Jonah I go to school in PS 261. I am a 4th grade and I live in Brooklyn New

3 (20s):
York. And how are you in been

1 (22s):
related Ben is my brother.

3 (24s):
So Ben what's going on with

1 (27s):
school? Well, they closed it yesterday. Because of the virus and they don't want large groups of people but last time I was there there were there weren't many people. Anyway, how are you feeling Jonah? It doesn't feel like a weekend because on a because I know that I should be in school right now. So it sort of feels like a break likes like winter break and I think that when I come back to school, I'm gonna be thinking like wait, I'm not in a new grade. I'm still in fourth grade. Happened. Were you surprised all the schools shut down? Yeah like not I thought I thought it was just a district and then it's like every school in New York.

1 (1m 8s):
That's crazy

3 (1m 9s):
Ben. How do you feel about it?

1 (1m 11s):
Kind of feels wrong? I kind of feel like right now I should be in school not sitting around at home Sheltering.

3 (1m 19s):
Is it boring to be at home? Kind of what are you planning to do for the next couple weeks while you're at home?

1 (1m 24s):
Well, my school's been posting schoolwork online. So I'm gonna do a little love that I'm going to play some video games and watch some movies and do some other stuff that doesn't involve digital

3 (1m 38s):
devices. So Jonah with this virus, are you scared at all?

1 (1m 43s):
No, the virus doesn't scary because I know that it's a very hard chance for me to get it and if I get it, it's a 0.2 chance. I'm gonna die. I feel actually pretty scared because I'm not sure where Jonas getting these estimates from but It's spreading quickly and I'm just have sometimes I feel like I think about worst case scenario a lot. So might be just that talking but I feel pretty scared. I'm scared too, Ben. Hmm.

3 (2m 16s):
And you know, I'm glad that you're there with your dad and with Jonah. Yeah. We'll just start at the beginning. If you can just tell me your name and the best way to introduce

1 (2m 36s):
you. Sure. My name is Lauren Gardner. I teach eighth-grade English at a public school in Carroll Gardens, Red Hook neighborhood of Brooklyn.

3 (2m 46s):
And what's your school? Like what do the students like

1 (2m 48s):
their? We serve a fairly diverse population of kids about 40% or more identical. Phi is flat next but a third identify as black African-American out 20% identify as white and the majority of our students qualify for free and reduced lunch, which makes us a title one school as well.

3 (3m 10s):
When did coronavirus start impacting your day-to-day life at

1 (3m 13s):
school. I guess a week ago this past week. We began hearing from our principle that we may expect to see children staying home and that We needed to be prepared to send work home for those children or that it was, you know, time to start thinking about how we might digitize our curriculum in the event that school closed. It's a very impossible to tell what was going on and when we would hear and what we needed to do and even being told you no, yes digitize. Your curriculums felt a little abstract to me this

3 (3m 49s):
week. Did your students stopped showing up this week at all

1 (3m 52s):
this past Friday was the first day that we A significant drop in attendance. We had like 50 percent of our kids showed up. I saw teachers, you know, I'm sure whether to even proceed with teaching like it felt like a very strange day to be in the building and you were starting to hear reports of you know, restaurants need to operate at 50% capacity and schools still aren't closed certain principles were coming out and saying like I've got a confirmed case of a parent in our school of kovin 19. You need to know about this. This you need to be able to make a smart decision for your family and that was prior to the schools being officially

3 (4m 30s):
closed and did that eventually start

1 (4m 33s):
changing. There was a lot of drama over the weekend about why I haven't schools closed neighboring school districts have closed and did they forget about us or what and there were there were calls to call in sick and do a protest and Civil Disobedience and a lot of energy going into getting the mayor too close. Schools and feeling angry and left behind.

3 (4m 58s):
Okay. So where were you when you actually heard the news that New York was closing down the

1 (5m 2s):
school's I was actually on the phone with my co-teacher and she said turn on channel eight turn on channel eight.

3 (5m 8s):
I am very very concerned that we see a rapid spread of this disease and it is time to take more dramatic

1 (5m 17s):
measures the mayor was giving a press conference with the chancellor and it was really intense. He sounded super

3 (5m 26s):
upset. So I regret to have to announce that as of tomorrow. Our Public Schools will be closed. We will make a first attempt to restart our schools on Monday, April 20th. but I have to be honest that we're dealing with a lot of unknowns and a lot of challenges and we understand how difficult it will be to achieve that goal.

1 (5m 50s):
My jaw hit the floor. Like I totally didn't expect that and his phrasing was very ominous because he said the first time we will even attempt to reopen schools as April 20th, and it very well may be that schools. Don't open at all this year again

3 (6m 9s):
other school districts around the country have closed the Los Angeles. The school district has closed. I think that's the second biggest District in the country. What do you think took New York city so long to make this decision.

1 (6m 20s):
I know that there's a significant concern about children who needs schools for basic child care when I know that there's a concern about Food and Health Services, like maybe that was part of the delay in figuring out. How are we going to provide services for kids? When schools are closed Beyond, you know just curriculum.

3 (6m 47s):
Do you know if there are plans to get meals to those students that don't have other ways to get food?

1 (6m 52s):
Yes. So what I'm hearing is that this week all schools are open offering quote grab-and-go meals for kids anyone who comes in will be able to get a quote grab-and-go meal. I presume that some version of that plan is gonna sustain through the duration of this. Racist but IA I don't know the specifics. I think that's definitely one of the giant question marks around this

3 (7m 19s):
how much guidance are you getting right now about how to stay in touch with your students when they're not in

1 (7m 23s):
school. I think that is a gigantic question mark nothing has cohered for me in this way where I feel like I've got a very clear plan about how to move forward but I don't know how that could be expected at this point. I have my students and my family's, you know contact information. They're receiving regular updates. Dates from our principal and starting today or tomorrow there for sure going to be receiving regular updates from all of their teachers. It's just going to take us, you know a minute to kind of get our bearings and figure out how we're going to move forward. There's also a big big question about kids who don't have reliable computer access.

1 (8m 3s):
So on Thursday or Friday of this past week, my principal sent around surveys to the kids asking about Access to a computer or access to Internet and it came back revealing that about 90 to 95 percent of our students have some kind of access to technology but I you know even that I have a question mark around because when I feel anecdotally is that I see kids with a lot of inconsistent access to technology

3 (8m 36s):
even if you are able to teach online or remotely or something. Do you think you're going to be able to cover you know, the Expected amount of material the normal amount that you're supposed to cover in 8th

1 (8m 46s):
grade. No absolutely not. It really feels like a dialing down. We're not necessarily being explicitly told that but this is this feels like a

3 (8m 58s):
crisis. Up next while schools are closed students are going to miss out on a lot more than just class. I'm no I'm hassenfeld filling in for Sean Rama's firm whose back tomorrow. This is today explained. This is Advertiser content

1 (9m 30s):
as a journalist. I'm part of the problem. We reduce people to 1 minute 14 News packages. I've done it. I've done it myself about my own people newsrooms are tasked with covering the whole world, but they don't represent it more than three-quarters of all Newsroom employees in the US are white and three out of five of them are men. This has an impact that voice you heard is Nella for hidayat. She's a journalist a 30-something Millennial women of And a Muslim Now look for is the host of course correction a podcast from Doha debates and Qatar Foundation. It seeks to include the voices were not hearing in the conversations. We are all having around important Global issues, but I was 15 years old and I was watching the news and documentaries.

1 (10m 14s):
It was like this big tall white man who's telling me what the brown people think right and I'm the brown people and it would be presented to us as fact. So the course correction podcast is basically my attempt At trying to change things a classic journalism Trope is the view from nowhere a single journalist certain of their impartiality presenting information as fact, but there's always a view from somewhere to now offer that personal experience is a feature not a bug we all come with a set of biases. It's about taking personal responsibility. Not just as an individual not just as mean elephant a person but as a journalist to Report accurately and truthfully be a part of the conversation for change.

1 (11m 2s):
Listen to course correction wherever you get your podcasts.

3 (11m 10s):
Hey while you're listening to this podcast T-Mobile was busy building the largest 5G Network in America. All right, well into it all during this one podcast. They spent years improving their Network to be ready for the future Wireless 5G. Well, the future is here and it's Nationwide. T-Mobile's 5G network is in over 5,000 cities covering more than 200 million Americans. It's 5G service. You can actually use even in places where other signals just get locked like your living room. Or bank vault. Okay. Will Pi. Not the last one Now's the Time you get ahead of the 5 g game Why not pick the first largest and only Nationwide 5G Network. Go to tea - mobile.com that tea - mobile.com capable device required coverage not available in some areas downlink.

3 (11m 56s):
Only some uses may require certain plan or feature CT - mobile.com We've been talking about Nationwide school closures on the show today. We started with New York and on the other side of the country Seattle was the first major School District to announce extended closures due to the coronavirus last week. My name is Jesse Hagopian. I teach ethnic studies and English language arts at Garfield High School in Seattle and Jesse first heard the news last Wednesday. So I was at my desk when an email alert popped up and I Actually didn't look at the email right away.

3 (12m 38s):
I was in the middle of some lesson planning and then I heard hollering from the hallway and I realized I might want to check that email. It was an announcement in the middle of the school day on Wednesday that the schools would be closed for a minimum of two weeks starting the following day on Thursday. And I realized the whooping and hollering in the in the hallway was from students who were excited about the the school closure, but I think just below that excitement was actually a lot of fear.

3 (13m 23s):
We had some difficult conversations in my class that day. I told them that I was going to work on this and try to help make sure that all the schools were providing free food for kids who couldn't afford it and that we needed to help to get our Union to be part of this effort and that I would help to really advocate for increased paid sick leave. To help their families and that if they needed anything, I was going to work to make sure that we have the technology to where we could communicate and I could provide ongoing instruction as well.

3 (14m 9s):
And that's a real challenge. You know, I think it's highly ironic that in a city with as many Tech Giants as we have that we don't have basic technological. Ility to continue the education of our students and the digital divide is very real. What are the options for trying to communicate with the students during this period I mean are they basically just going to be on break or are there sort of creative ways you're thinking of to continue their education while they're out. Well, the superintendent suggested that we should consider this like a spring break the problem.

3 (14m 52s):
However is that the governor just came out on Thursday and announced that the initial two weeks of school closures. Would actually be extended to over six weeks at minimum and even suggested that they might be closing schools again in the fall when we're talking about that length of extended time away from school. It is really damaging to their education. So that's the actual education but what about all the other stuff students get from schools like meals? Well, thankfully the school district has set up 26 sites around the city that will be providing food to my students but 26 sites to me isn't nearly enough and there will be students that have difficulty finding the site that isn't their own school.

3 (15m 49s):
You know, I Garfield High School we have over a hundred and fifty homeless students and in the state of Washington, there's over 40,000 homeless students and when the schools are closed like This it's not just the meals that they miss but are homeless students at Garfield rely on the school to do their laundry and to take showers and those facilities have not been addressed. And so I think the city and the school district needs to have much more robust conversations about the many services our schools provide from from psychological well-being and counseling services.

3 (16m 31s):
To nursing services that are free, you know to the showers and laundry and meals. Yeah, I wonder you know, they seem sort of like a particularly knotty problem to solve given that schools are these places, you know, we're like everyone needs to be together and that's exactly what we can't do right now and you know, we've heard how so much more than just learning is going to be lost in New York and Seattle all over the country when these schools are shut down. So I mean, how do you sustain communities? In a time like this, that's the really important question because I think social distancing is so important right now to stop the spread of covet 19, but that doesn't mean we have to distance ourselves from each other's Humanity.

3 (17m 25s):
I mean, I think we need to learn a great lesson and from this not all great lessons are taught within the four walls of a classroom. Sometimes we can draw a large lessons from people's activity and Collective action for the greater good and I think that we need to take a hard look at the lack of a social safety net in our country. And see how we can do better to treat the least among us because I think as long as we have such dramatic disparities in our society where all at greater risk.