0 (1s):
Support for the program. Today comes from Walmart. According to Walmart, they're helping their associates grow their families with six weeks of paid parental leave and a $5,000 adoption benefit for all salary. And full-time hourly associates who have worked at Walmart for at least 12 months. Last year, according to Walmart, nearly 30,000 associates took advantage of parental leave and adoption benefits. According to Walmart, learn how Walmart invest in their associates and their families at walmart.com/spark that's. walmart.com/spark Support for the show. Today comes from high drove. It's a state-of-the-art rowing machine designed to transfer the way you work out with places reopening their doors.

0 (44s):
Hydro allows you to get an efficient workout in while still having time to go out with your friends experience, a full body endorphin high, they say it's the hydro high. Learn more@hydro.com. It's spelled H Y D R O w.com. And for a limited time, you can use the code Vox one 50 for $150 off the rower It's election day in the USA, but it's not a presidential election year. It's not even the midterm.

0 (1m 25s):
So things are going to be totally chill, right? Right. Maybe not turns out voters, especially parents have found much smaller local races to get riled up about in 2021. We're talking almost as small and local as you can get we're talking school boards,

2 (1m 49s):
School board meetings in many states around the country, and many districts have become hugely confrontational. Very combative parents showing up public comment is now ended with not just yelling, but even some threats. There's been some arrests Over a vast range of issues. So there's anti maskers anti-vaxxers. There are people excited about something that they call critical race theory.

4 (2m 26s):
<inaudible> that you're providing where it says, if you were born a white male, you were born in oppressor, you were abusing our children.

5 (2m 32s):
What do you mean teaching rave? What, what is that a teach about race humans? There is no systemic racism.

2 (2m 40s):
Also some old favorites like LGBTQ rights.

6 (2m 43s):
I'm retired, Senator Dick black of Ashburn, Virginia. It's absurd and immoral for teachers to call boys, girls and girls boy,

0 (2m 58s):
Anya cabinets. You've been covering these extremely vitriolic school board fights for NPR what's going on and why?

2 (3m 6s):
I mean, I think the best description that I've heard is from Melissa Ryan who tracks a right-wing kind of organizing. And she said, you know, school board meetings are kind of the new tea party. A vast range of activists are really choosing to confront various things that they see as being winning culture, war issues

0 (3m 25s):
Though, these fights and races are small and local. There are bigger implications.

2 (3m 31s):
Well, absolutely. I mean, I think most prominently in the governor's race in Virginia Glenn Yuncken, the Republican has chosen to make a version of the school board confrontations, basically his closing issue in the race

3 (3m 43s):
Home at where Terry McAuliffe says, parents don't have any role in their kid's education. The same moment where parents stand up and say, oh yes, we do.

2 (3m 55s):
But there's also a number of a record number of school board recalls that have gone through in the last year and people running to replace school board members that they see as being, you know, on the wrong side of these types of issues.

0 (4m 8s):
And why now, why is this happening this year? Should we blame the pandemic? Nobody likes the pandemic.

2 (4m 14s):
You know, obviously parents everywhere have been completely overwhelmed and frustrated by the path that their schools have taken at some point in the past year and a half. But the other thing that happened of course, is at school board meetings themselves went virtual because of the pandemic. And that really lowered the bar for participation for better. And for worse

0 (4m 33s):
School board meeting, it used to be a thing you needed to like get in your car and like cancel your plans and go to and wait around for. But, but now it's just something you can do in your living room while you have the computer on mute. And that kind of opened up the flood gates.

2 (4m 46s):
I think so. Yeah.

7 (4m 49s):
And I'm going to come for everybody that comes at my kid with this stupid, ridiculous mandate. So as you can see, fists are now flying all of this on live TV.

8 (5m 1s):
You are allowing child abuse. You are allowing child abuse you with your snotty little face, your allowance as well.

2 (5m 11s):
And also what opened up the flood gates is that parents were really upset. You know, there were so many contradictory messages going forward. There were conflicts with unions in some places, conflicts over hybrid models. And so yeah, parents got upset, they got active, they got vocal about either reopening schools or it's not safe to reopen school. So you see really more involvement happening and more unhappy parents.

0 (5m 35s):
So how does this evolve over the course of the pandemic? How does this go from just being like people sounding off from like on a zoom meeting or something from their homes to whatever it is now,

2 (5m 44s):
The school reopening itself, as well as masking. We're both very polarized. You're

9 (5m 51s):
I think 300 kids, almost 300 kids into a school. How is that following the guidelines that everyone

2 (6m 1s):
It has put out, they became very polarized issues under the last president.

10 (6m 5s):
I think it's going to be good for them politically. So they keep the schools close no way. So we're very much going to put pressure on governors and everybody else to open the school.

2 (6m 15s):
Trump also championed the notion of critical race theory, being a thing

10 (6m 20s):
'cause it's racist. I ended it because a lot of people were complaining that they were asked to do things that were absolutely insane, that it was a radical revolution that was taking place in our military. In our,

2 (6m 35s):
We should pause to note the critical race theory is a legal theory. That's taught in law schools and undergraduate seminars and not in K-12 schools, but it's shorthand for, you know, what's sometimes called like woke education or just really attempting to teach kids about history and racism as a structural issue.

0 (6m 51s):
Where are these cultural wars happening? Everywhere,

2 (6m 54s):
Florida. Yeah. I would say that these school board fights are not ubiquitous by any means. And they're not seen notably in a lot of big cities, which tend to be more blue cities. The places that I've seen them a lot have been more kind of medium-sized suburban school districts, sometimes a little bit larger, but in purple states. So Washington state in Michigan and Pennsylvania, Ohio, and, and this notable one in San Diego county.

0 (7m 23s):
Can you give me some examples of the sort of more extraordinary things you've seen

2 (7m 28s):
In Gwinnett county, Georgia? There's a scope of member named Karen Watkins. And when she was elected last fall, she flipped the school board, she and another fellow candidate. They flipped the school board to be majority people of color and majority democratic. And this isn't a suburban Atlanta county. That's become very diverse over the last couple of decades. And she was targeted off the bat by a policy group that is a offshoot of an offshoot of focus on the family and this, they produced this attack ad

11 (8m 2s):
The radical liberals is running for school and bull, right? Their platform, radical sex indoctrination, removing safety officers from school and teaching our children a false version of American history, the result, more teen pregnancy.

2 (8m 15s):
And so this rhetoric from this video app was parroted in messages to her on hundreds of messages. She got on Facebook. One of them she read to me was Karen, here's some news for you. The democratic communist baby killer party doesn't have any values. Yikes.

12 (8m 31s):
I had a parent call me, call me and told me that, you know, they're coming for me. How am I supposed to take that?

2 (8m 39s):
It's intense. You know? And so when these people showed up at the school board meeting, she and her colleague felt so threatened that they had to leave the room.

12 (8m 49s):
We ask everyone, wear a mask as <inaudible>, if you are unable to comply, please leave

2 (9m 2s):
The premises. And so it's like a pretty effective protest because they're posing a threat basically by standing there, at least in the eyes of, you know, the folks that are at these meetings, you got a little bit

12 (9m 15s):
In there, people saying, stand your ground. He can't remove all of us. Literally stand your ground. That's enough for me when you're saying things like that, they trigger things in my migraine.

2 (9m 25s):
So it feels very scary. And she's not the only one who's been threatened in a way that feels personal.

0 (9m 33s):
It just feels like watching these videos and hearing these clips. People are so, so angry. And if you're like disconnected from this world, you're just kinda like, these are like your neighbors. Why are you so mad at your neighbor?

2 (9m 48s):
You know, not just angry, but the disconnection from a normal frame of reference or normal modes of behavior. And I think what happened in Poway, California to me is kind of the most extreme example of this.

13 (10m 0s):
You're not going to hold a meeting.

2 (10m 4s):
The school board members were meeting, but in a closed session, they were live-streaming the public comments, but the protestors made their way inside. And the school board members felt like the best way to deescalate would be to leave. And so the protestors who were anti mask protestors came into a public meeting room and then they declared themselves the new school board. They held a vote.

13 (10m 29s):
No, they need to vacate because they actually have lost their jobs. So this is the new board they need to leave.

0 (10m 38s):
So was it like some sort of, I mean, the word I want to use here is like insurrection, was it some sort of revolt?

2 (10m 44s):
Yeah. The clerk of the Poway school board called it a mini insurrection. She said like January 6th is our September 9th. Because basically like, you know, on the one hand, of course there was no legal consequence to this. Well, in two ways, first of all, the police didn't arrest anyone. No one was hurt, no one was detained and no one was kicked out. They were allowed to go freely. But also too. I mean, they didn't become the school board because they held a vote. They're kind of just them having their own reality.

0 (11m 22s):
We've got to take a break, but this isn't just a reality. Some angry parents created out of thin air. There's a lot of thinking behind it, more on that in a minute,

1 (11m 53s):
This

2 (11m 53s):
Podcast is supported by at T and T active armor. It would be easier to list all the things we don't rely on our phones for than the things we do because between all the food we order and the memes we send to our group chats and the work questions we field, one thing is clear. We definitely don't have time for fraud calls. Thankfully at and T makes customer security a priority, helping block those pesky calls. It's not complicated at and T active armor, 24 7 proactive network security and fraud call blocking to help stop threats at no extra charge compatible device and service required. Visit att.com/active armor for details.

14 (12m 35s):
Hi, there it's Peter Kafka. And I wanted to tell you that we've wrapped our latest season of land of the giants. It's the podcast that explores the biggest, most important tech companies of our time. This time we looked at apple company that changed what a computer is and then change what a phone is. Yeah. iPhone has given apple tremendous power, but it's forced the company to make compromises. It didn't expect apple says privacy.

15 (12m 58s):
There's a fundamental and human, right? But it also conflicts with its need to follow the laws of every country. It operates in,

14 (13m 4s):
Especially in China and its app store generates billions in profit, but that doesn't work for everyone. Apple,

16 (13m 10s):
Well basically is preventing me a small business owner. I'm servicing my customers the way I've serviced them for many, many years for decades. And they're saying, no, you can't do it that way.

14 (13m 18s):
Meanwhile, what exactly is going on with apple TV? Plus

17 (13m 22s):
My sense is apple doesn't want to win this Treme wars. They want to be extremely highly regarded for their

14 (13m 28s):
Land of the giants, the apple revolution Recode and the box media podcast network. This season is sponsored by web flow and you can catch up on the entire series now, wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (13m 48s):
Okay, Anya, we've got a lot of angry parents activism at school board meetings. Some of the issues these parents are angry about directly relate to the pandemic and the politics of our former president. Who's been carrying the torch for him since he got voted out of office. This time, last year,

2 (14m 4s):
Very wide range of Republican leaning organizations are in support of this school board moving in various ways at various levels. So, you know, like the heritage foundation is issuing supportive press releases as is the Cato Institute. The Manhattan Institute also put out like a guide to woke schooling for parents,

0 (14m 26s):
A guide to woke schooling, like how to know if your teacher's woke or something.

2 (14m 30s):
That's basically it. Yeah. Had any of your teachers woke

18 (14m 34s):
Something peculiar is spreading throughout America's schools. If you're reading this guide, perhaps something similar is happening in your child's school, perhaps your children have come home talking about how their whiteness or blackness or Asian-ness, or Hispanicness really defines who they not their individual personality hopes and dreams.

2 (14m 57s):
It's actually not as good as another one that comes from an organization that was founded by Trump's former budget director. And he issued a 34 page activist guide for critical race theory. One of the most important thing it says is that

18 (15m 13s):
CRT is being used in your schools. There's no time to waste. It's time to get to work. If CRT is not being used in your schools now would be a good time to get involved in your local school board and community before radical CRT activists, take it over and you have a real mess on your hands.

2 (15m 32s):
They know that it's a winning issue, that they can kind of demagogue without needing to have the facts potentially on their side. And you know, it has a lot of basic information there about, you know, how to become an activist and how to recruit your friends and your buddies and hold a barbecue and have a Facebook group they're giving aid and comfort. They're giving information connections to legal, help a template legislation, template letters.

0 (15m 56s):
What's like the larger political strategy at play here. Like keep people engaged, keep people angry, keep people fighting, and then that'll feed bigger elections down the road.

2 (16m 6s):
I mean, yeah, it seems to be evident that this is a Republican based culture war play, right? It's culture war on various levels. I mean, when you talk about the critical race theory stuff that is white identity culture, war stuff, there's still a plenty of LGBTQ stuff. So in Virginia, in Loudon county, some of the upheaval was over a transgender bathroom rules. And then the anti mask in vaccine stuff is also connecting to, you know, basic Liberty. So kind of like libertarian, there's interesting crossover there support from very hardcore second amendment groups for anti-vaccine and anti lockdown activism. And then the anti-mosque and anti-vaccine stuff also bleeds into, you know, the anti-vaccination movement has been around for a while.

2 (16m 51s):
It's not all explicitly political, but it does connect you other conspiracy theories queue and on, and that type of thing. So it's, it's a beautiful garden full of different kinds of blooms,

0 (17m 1s):
Further reinforced by conservative media, right? Where, where you're constantly hearing about these issues like, like vaccine mandates, like mass squaring and critical race theory.

2 (17m 13s):
Oh, absolutely. I mean, none of this would be possible without the sort of ecosystem of right-wing media going from kind of tack at the bottom. So a lot of these groups are producing their own media, social media videos, live streams, and they're trying to go viral, right? So they succeed when they go viral. They succeed when they're parodied on, on a Saturday live,

19 (17m 32s):
Hi, I'm so mad. I'm literally shaking right now. Forget COVID the real threat is critical race theory being taught in our schools. My question is, what is it? And why am I mad about it?

2 (17m 49s):
And also they're getting interviewed on Fox. They're getting interviewed

20 (17m 52s):
On one America network. You are a teacher St. Tammany parish. You decided to become involved and you went to school board meetings. And then what happened?

21 (18m 1s):
I started getting scrutinized. I started getting targeted. I would be called into the targeted by home, by my principal who I work for. I'm a former teacher. So I'm certified. I know you're fired. You're fired. Yeah. I was officially terminated and you're currently unemployed.

2 (18m 14s):
So there's television hits to come out of it. And then there's right-wing websites, news, media websites that are amplifying. So a good example of that would be the cycle of what happened with the national school board association. So the national school board association put out this letter, which brought this issue, I think, to national attention. And it was an open letter to Joe Biden asking him to bring in federal law enforcement, to help with all of these disruptions because school board members and educators, frankly, didn't feel safe.

23 (18m 48s):
These are real threats and they were occurring with greater frequency. So we, our letter to the white house really is indicative of the seriousness of the situation for school board members, but more especially for students in our public schools,

2 (19m 5s):
That letter was jumped on by parents defending education, which is yet another one of these groups. One of the most successful that we haven't talked as much about. And they went around and they called the state school boards to see if they agreed with the national school board association letter.

18 (19m 21s):
The Ohio school board association has decided to terminate membership with the national school boards association. This comes after a letter sent out by the NSPA to the Biden administration, calling parents domestic terrorists.

2 (19m 37s):
And about half of them have said, no, we don't agree with this language, especially the language about terrorism, right? Domestic terrorism, which was used in the letter. And that really puts the national association on, on their back foot. And then after right wing media coverage,

24 (19m 52s):
Obvious that the white house was following the NSB A's lead. And the DOJ was following the white house's lead

2 (19m 60s):
National school board association. Apologize for the letter specifically for that language. And then, you know, meanwhile attorney general Merrick Garland had responded to the letter and said, yes, we are going to help. We're going to get the FBI involved,

22 (20m 13s):
Nothing in this memorandum or any memorandum is about parents expressing disagreements with their school boards. The memorandum makes clear that parents are entitled and protected by the first amendment to have vigorous debates. We don't, the justice department is not interested in that question at all,

2 (20m 33s):
Create a strategy for enforcements and look into these threats and looked into looking at this harassment and fi was hauled in front of the Senate judiciary committee.

18 (20m 45s):
You're the attorney general of the United States.

5 (20m 48s):
You think that a parent who shows up at a school board meeting who has a complaint who wants to voice that complaint, and maybe she doesn't use exactly the right grammar, you think they're akin to criminal riders. Do you agree with it

2 (20m 58s):
Where instead of just spending their time asking about, you know, what happened in January 6th, several different Republican senators took turns, haranguing him for calling ordinary parents terrorists.

0 (21m 11s):
Are any of these groups successfully taking over school boards? Has that actually happened?

2 (21m 17s):
I mean, it's been a, it's been a short cycle. So I think we might see some elections happening today, right? There's been school board recall efforts and a few of those have been successful. So people getting removed and then presumably replaced with people that are more congenial to this, this, this continue.

0 (21m 35s):
And is that sort of like the end game here to, to flip as many school boards as you can. And then, and what reshape education policy,

2 (21m 43s):
It's a gateway to other kinds of involvement. This is drawing so much heat and interest because it's a way of motivating people to get active in politics in general. And so if you, you know, school board might be the venue, it's a venue for the activity for the protest, but, but it helps people identify with these groups and with these issues and draws them closer to getting involved politically, you know, obviously there's democratic control of the branches of government, the federal level. And so how do you get people active if you're on the other side, will you get them active on the local level? And we saw that with the tea party during Obama, we saw it with the resistance quote unquote, during Trump.

2 (22m 23s):
And now we're seeing it to some extent with these school board related movements. And the other thing I should mention Sean, is that, you know, since George Floyd, since the black lives matter uprising in 2020, there has been an imperfect, but sincere attempt on behalf of most public school related organizations in this, in this country to try to reckon with the fact of structural racism, to try to take a strong look at how they teach history and actually teach how, you know, what actually happened in America and what kind of country we are. And it's, it's imperfect. It's under-resourced, but it's, it's an attempt. And the problem with these kinds of acts kind of activism, which has also resulted by the Wayne state laws.

2 (23m 4s):
So state laws about the teaching of race and history that basically amount to in, in many cases that I've heard about a chilling effect for teachers, teachers are worried that if they bring up race in the classroom, that they're going to bring a firestorm onto their heads. And so the safer thing to do is not to bring it up at all.

0 (23m 25s):
Do you think it's occurred to anyone that maybe having all of this vitriol in like school board meetings and all this fighting going on with school administrators and policy makers is just not great for kids? Has that just not, has that escaped this whole?

2 (23m 42s):
I mean, the interesting thing about these kinds of conflicts is everybody will say that they're in it for the kids, right? They're in it for their kids' best interests. They want to protect the kids. And so that ends up meeting kind of whatever people want it to mean. Kids have lost so much learning. They are still struggling to deal with masks policies. They're worrying now about how they're going to get the kids vaccinated. Can they get the staff vaccinated? I mean, there are there's issues with finding school bus drivers, their supply chain issues. There's so many kids that have been traumatized and they're trying to get them social emotional help schools have a lot on their plates. And when they have to deal with this kind of opposition, it just makes it so much harder for them to do their basic jobs.

0 (24m 32s):
Anya cabinets. She covers education for NPR, and she's working on a book about kids and COVID today's episode was produced by Victoria Chamberlain. I'm Sean Rama's from it's election day explained

11 (25m 49s):
Hi, it's me, Jesse David Fox, host of good one, a podcast about jokes. And I am happy. No thrill to tell you that vulture festival is back 19. Really back this time, we're doing it fully live and in-person and outside at the Hollywood Roosevelt in beautiful Los angels, California on November 30th and 14, no faces and little boxes and no awkward silences after people tell jokes, unless they're bad jokes, just all of us together in real life. Having a fun time this year, we have the cast of third rock from the sun where uniting and Henry would go be teaching an acting class. I will be talking to Sarah Silverman and Seth Rogan about comedy friendship and the holidays. And yes, we'll be requiring vaccines, just like the met gala.

11 (26m 30s):
So in a way, this is just like the met gala, except you can dress more comfortably and ISA Ray will be there. Wait, that was an ISA Ray of this year as napkins. Anyway, get your tickets before they sell out@vulturefestival.com.

20 (26m 46s):
You probably know that smartphones really got started with the iPhone, but did you know there was an innovative app driven smartphone six years before it I'm Dieter Bohn and in a new documentary from the verge called springboard, the secret history of the first real smartphone. We look at a tiny startup that tried to create the modern phone before anybody was ready for it. Every little pocket,

26 (27m 6s):
The future is going to have a fast, inexpensive internet connection, and you're going to use it for voice and data and transaction

20 (27m 12s):
And so on, but nobody believed them, not the company that they worked at, not the carriers that sold millions of phones a year and not even Steve jobs in our documentary. We revealed the struggles of making a phone before any of the technology supply chain or even the mobile industry itself was remotely ready. All from a tiny company called handspring.

25 (27m 31s):
We took off like a rocket. Everybody wanted this.

20 (27m 36s):
You can watch springboard now on the free verge TV app and learn more at the verge.com/springboard. That's the verge.com/springboard.