3 (9s):
Ian milhiser you cover the Supreme Court for Vox and the court begins a new term today. The last one as I recall was kind of sleepy. What's on Deck this time. Oh boy. This is going to be a huge term. They've got a big abortion case. They've got two big immigration cases one of which literally deals with whether a Border guard can get away with shooting someone across the Mexican border. There's a big Obamacare case looming that they might have to take and they've got a huge LGBT discrimination case, which is probably the biggest employment discrimination case to reach the court in 30 years. Okay. Let's start with this abortion case that the Supreme Court decided to here just on Friday.

3 (51s):
What is this case that the court will be taking up? So this is the Louisiana case involving a state law that requires doctors to have admitting privileges in a nearby hospital in order to perform an abortion.

2 (1m 6s):
Now why that is so difficult is that there's no law that The hospital to give an abortion provider admitting privileges. So what you end up happening is all of these abortion providers would love to get admitting privileges, but they can't get them because none of these hospitals will allow them to get the

3 (1m 21s):
Privileges and the broader context here. Is there these things abortion Advocates often refer to them as trap laws. They look like regulations to make it easier for women to get into a hospital in case they have some kind of complication but here's the thing like the complication rates for abortion are vanishingly small and it's less than 1% But if women so it's not really something that does anything to help anyone's Health Care. It just makes it really hard for doctors to get a credential so that if fewer doctors are able to perform abortions, that means there's fewer abortions in that state. So it's kind of a back door way to prevent abortions from happening the

2 (1m 58s):
court will consider whether the measure andouille burdens women and this will be the first abortion related case heard by the Supreme Court since Justice Brett Kavanaugh was confirmed

3 (2m 9s):
And the Supreme Court certainly heard many challenges to Roe v-- Wade, is this one similar to one that's come before ya know, these people might be having Deja Vu and they should be because a law I mean like parts of this law are literally word for word identical to a Texas law that the Supreme Court struck down three years ago and was the same thing Justice Breyer wrote a great majority opinion where he listed all the reasons why these laws don't actually protect anyone's health and the change here, isn't that this law? All is particularly different the change here is that the key fifth vote in that decision was just as Kennedy Justice Kennedy as retired and his replacement Brett Kavanaugh is a much more conservative on these issues and they think right now they have the majority and the fact that they took this case suggests that the majority is ready to go and it's ready to if not overrule Roe v-- Wade entirely at least to say that states have tremendous power to limit the right to an abortion.

3 (3m 9s):
But I do remember just as Cavanaugh in his confirmation hearings saying that he believed that Roe v-- Wade was settled law as a judge. It is an important precedent of the Supreme Court by it. I mean Roe v-- Wade and Planned Parenthood versus KC. Then reaffirm many times Casey is precedent on precedent which itself is an important factor to remember yet. I mean judges say a lot of things that their confirmation hearings. There's kind of a script that they've learned to follow so that they don't express an opinion on Roe v-- Wade, but shortly before he was nominated. He actually went to a conservative think tank the American Enterprise Institute and there he praised Justice rehnquist dissent in the review 8 opinion.

3 (3m 55s):
So when he wasn't in his confirmation hearing he gave a very different impression about what he thinks about row and that's odd. I mean for most of my career if someone thought that they were in the running for Supreme Court nomination They do everything they could to not get a record on abortion because they didn't want it to come up in their confirmation hearings the fact that Cavanaugh did that I think tells you a great deal about how politicize the quarters come and now at least on the Republican side. If you want to become a Justice, you've got a signal with big neon light. Hey, I'm your guy on the following list of issues. And so Cavanaugh must have thought that not having a record on abortion was a liability and he needed to convince the people who pick Republican justices that they didn't have to worry about that being a liar a liability.

3 (4m 46s):
Roe versus Wade decided in 1973 is oppressing the United States Supreme Court, as of course, it's shiny thing like that. Do we know where he stands on abortion was reaffirmed in Casey in 1992 and in several other cases, so a good judge will consider it as president of the United States Supreme Court worthy as treatment of Preston like any other yeah, I'd be very Sighs if Gorsuch doesn't vote to overrule Roe among other things when he was a lower court judge. There was a case that came up involving an attempt to defund Planned Parenthood Gorsuch pretty strongly back the side that wanted to defund Planned Parenthood. So I don't have too many doubts about how he views abortion.

3 (5m 27s):
Okay, and in addition to divisive issues like abortion the Supreme Court will also take up things. We all agree on like immigration. That's right. There are two big cases that I think touch on immigration. The first is a case asking whether the Trump Administration can wind down the DACA program. I think it's very likely that they're going to say. Yes, they can do that.

2 (5m 48s):
The immigration policy allows protection of immigrants living in the US who were brought here illegally into the country as

3 (5m 55s):
children, then that program originated from the White House anyway with Obama. So this is a program. It's called deferred action for childhood arrivals about 700 thousand undocumented immigrants are allowed to stay in this country. There are allowed to work while they're in this country and they get certain federal benefits the Trump Administration decided to wind this program down and what's interesting about this case is a big mystery as to why the Supreme Court decide to take it in the first place. If you change a policy typically the federal government has to explain why they did so and when they explain why they do so if they give a policy explanation we say this is a bad idea for these reasons on then courts don't review that they typically are not allowed to review that if they give a legal reason if they say they think that the program is illegal courts are allowed to review that determination.

3 (6m 48s):
And the only thing that happened here is that the Trump Administration gave a legal justification and not a policy justification. So it's puzzling about this case is that the Trump Administration has the power to wind it down if they want to if they just put out a new memo that states a policy explanation for doing so, I don't know why they haven't done that. I mean It's incompetence. Maybe it is that they want the courts to actually consider the legal question and they want the Supreme Court to hold that DACA is itself illegal because if the Supreme Court were to say that that would mean that we could never have DACA ever again. Oh, wow.

3 (7m 28s):
Yeah big deal. Yeah very big deal. And there's another immigration case in addition to that one. There is this is only tangentially related to immigration but it really goes to the values underlying our immigration system. This is It's called Hernandez V Mesa

2 (7m 45s):
back in 2010 a u.s. Border patrol agent shot and killed a Mexican teenager next to the paso del Norte international bridge in El Paso. The agent was in the US the boy was 60 feet away in Mexico.

3 (7m 58s):
Now, the boy's family wants to sue saying the agent violated their sons constitutional rights. There's a bit of disagreement as to what happened in the events leading up to this but the Border guard took out his gun fired Two Shots across the Mexican border and killed a 15 year old

2 (8m 20s):
boy cell phone video shows the boys running away from the fence and America as agent Jesus Mesa arrives agent Macy event takes one of the boys into custody the rest run back into Mexico video then appears to show agent Mesa handcuffing the boy on the ground when rocks are thrown at him. That's when Mesa turned around and shot Hernandez, is it get on the mother and son

3 (8m 58s):
and the question here is whether that boy's family can sue the guard and get money damages directly from that. Her agent the lower court in this case said, you know these border guards are doing really important National Security work the keeping people out of the country that we don't want in the country and we don't want them to hesitate when they have to make a split second decision. And if we impose this kind of liability on them, they might hesitate and that would be bad. So it's really just a case about like conflicting values, you know, do we believe that federal agents need to be accountable and that with their power comes great responsibility or do we believe that they're doing such important work that they should have broad immunities that protect them from consequences when they do something wrong

2 (9m 47s):
when these cases decided it could make a big difference to others who may follow in various situations, whether it's a shot across the border or whether it's somebody in Nevada who's operating a drone that goes off and kills someone in some other

3 (10m 2s):
country and then there's Obamacare Again, right. So the Affordable Care Act is was originally enacted has an individual mandate. If you don't have health insurance, you have to pay higher taxes. Yeah the tax law in 2017 reduce those taxes to 0. There's a lower court decision if upheld the ruling by US District Judge read O'Connor of Texas would

2 (10m 28s):
eliminate all of obamacare's Provisions including Medicaid expansion

3 (10m 32s):
protections for people with pre-existing

2 (10m 35s):
conditions. And the ability of children to stay on their parent's insurance until age 26

3 (10m 41s):
and the legal issue. I mean, it's hard for me to be hyperbolic and describing how ridiculous this case is Right. We've covered this on the show all these Republican Attorneys General are saying that now that there's no individual mandate. All of Obamacare is unconstitutional and by reducing the tax to zero that made the zero doubt mandate unconstitutional. Institutional and because the law now contains this zeroed out mandate which is unconstitutional. The proper remedy is to strike down the entirety of the Affordable Care Act root and Branch. So all told this term is going to be a doozy. Yeah, just get the LGBT cases and we haven't even gotten to the LGBT cases.

3 (11m 24s):
That's right. We'll do that after the break. I've got great news for anyone out there who loves Court TV and maybe you can even guess what this news is going to be. Yes court TV has a podcast and guess what? It's called the court t v podcast if you love how court TV takes you inside the courtroom for the most talked-about trials in the country. Then you're gonna love the court TV podcast if you love Court TV anchors Vinnie politan, And Sima iron, then you're gonna love the court TV podcast because they're the host.

3 (12m 4s):
They do deep dives into the real-life deceptions and betrayals and yes the murders that lead to Justice in the courtroom. You can find the court TV podcast right now, wherever you find your other not Court TV podcasts check it out. So Ian what's going on with the Supreme Court and LGBT rights this

2 (12m 33s):
term? The US Supreme Court is set to consider transgender rights for the

3 (12m 40s):
first time. This case is massive. There's so many layers to this

2 (12m 44s):
case this case and two others could affect thousands of workplaces with this case asking the question is transgender status discrimination sex discrimination.

3 (12m 57s):
So we've got three cases being argued tomorrow the first to involve gay plaintiffs who allege that they were fired because of their sexual orientation and the issue in that case is whether you can be fired for being gay or if you know for sexual orientation

2 (13m 12s):
generally,

3 (13m 16s):
so the two cases are altitude Express visa and Bostock fee Clayton County what happened in each of these cases, it's two gay men who claim that the reason that they lost their jobs is because they are gay one guy was a government worker in Georgia. The other was asked. Diving instructor from New York. Wow. Yeah, and the facts of this case. It's are a little weird the skydiving instructor the skydiving instructor. Yeah, he would do tandem jumps with people who weren't experienced skydivers and apparently a thing that he liked to do when he was strapped to a woman is he would tell that woman that he is gay in a way of I guess reassuring her that like there wasn't a sexual interest there.

3 (13m 57s):
Yeah and somehow that led to the employer at least he alleges finding out that he was gay and deciding that they did not want to have this person working for them. You said there are three cases on this issue being sort of lumped together tomorrow what's case 3 so this case comes out of Michigan and involves a funeral home and a woman who was fired from that funeral home because her boss has religious objections to the fact that she's

2 (14m 29s):
transgender the case involving a me Stevens. She worked at a funeral home came out as trans started presenting as a woman

3 (14m 37s):
and the boss said that men have to wear, you know, male suits and women have to wear female suits and he decided that she is a man so she must wear the mail suit and tie and as she did not present as a man, then she could not work for his funeral

2 (14m 55s):
home. The Department of Justice filed a brief in the Supreme Court saying transgender discrimination is not prohibited by title 7 the group representing the funeral home arguing that Congress didn't include trans people when the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Or was

3 (15m 11s):
passed which says it is illegal to fire someone because of

2 (15m 16s):
sex the Civil Rights Act is a challenge to all of us to go to work in our communities and our state's in our homes and in our hearts. To eliminate the last vestiges of Injustice in our Beloved Country.

3 (15m 35s):
And so basically these cases our attention between whether the text the law all controls the case or whether what people are actually thinking in 1964 controls the case because I feel is about women the the federal government banned hiring of gay people entirely until 1975. So I don't think anyone thinks that in 1964 Congress passed this law intending to prevent gay or trans discrimination. Yeah that said the words of the law were really expansive no discrimination because of sex and I should clarify that sexier means gender not sexual intercourse. Yeah, and if sex is in any way part of the calculus, it's

2 (16m 16s):
illegal.

3 (16m 20s):
Sounds like you're talking about what the Supreme Court types like to call textualism right textualism. Our originalism what exactly is that originalism is sort of a subspecies of textualism textualism means you're governed by the text. That's the only thing that is relevant to your decision. Originalism says that when you consult the text, you give it the meaning it had when it was adopted not some later modern meaning and that's part of what makes this case. So interesting is you have a number of very conservative members of the Supreme Court, you know Claire It's Thomas and you'll Gorsuch Hussein who live and die by the letter of the law.

3 (17m 1s):
Exactly. They say doesn't matter what Congress thought it was doing in 1964. The only thing that matters is the taxed as of this is a case of whether we can really trust these guys when Neil Gorsuch has that the only thing that matters is the text. Is he going to stick to that principle when the text points in a in a liberal result or is he going to say? Oh, well, I'm going to make up some other To get the result that I want in this case you're saying this will be a test of whether or not they will allow their sort of legal Theory to serve a progressive end. That's exactly right.

3 (17m 41s):
You know that the question I mean ultimately the what makes these cases so important is that they will tell us whether the Supreme Court has engaged in law or whether it's just engaged in politics because if this is a case about wall the Supreme Court said in the 1980s that when you're applying the Civil Rights Act of 1964, you have to look at the tax doesn't matter what Congress thought it was doing in 1964. That's what the president say. You have a you know, at least two conservative justices who have said over and over again. The only thing that matters is textualism as we're going to find out whether they mean it we're going to find out whether they're willing to apply their principles when it hurts.

3 (18m 24s):
It's funny that you present this sort of dichotomy between whether this is about the law or whether this is about politics when this term, it sounds like the Supreme Court is going to have to weigh in on the most divisive issues in our politics abortion immigration Obamacare LGBT rights, how much do you think that's Weighing on Chief Justice John Roberts and his fellow justices. That is the single most important question in Supreme Court land right now. I mean, there is a reason why Merrick Garland is not on the Supreme Court. There is a reason why despite all of the allegations that came out with Christine blasi Ford against Brett Kavanaugh that Republicans thought it was so important to get their guy there and the reason why is because it matters who sits on the court, you know, we get very different policy and political outcomes depending on who sits on the court and if the court is engaged in law then I think it's okay for them to have Fair amount of power because the law was written down and are often not only has one clear meaning but if all it really is is politics all the way down it calls the question of why we have the Supreme Court because they're not elected.

3 (19m 39s):
Why should they have this power? If at the end of the day all that they're doing is engaging in politics and it also just makes me wonder. I mean a lot of these decisions come towards the end of the term which will be June of 2020, right which will be mere months before the presidential election. Can the politics of the Supreme Court end up influencing this next election. We know there's a lot of people who think that the reason why Donald Trump got elected is because Republicans cared so much about making sure that when Justice Scalia died, he would be replaced by a Republican and not by a Democrat that they were willing to hold their nose and vote for Donald Trump.

3 (20m 19s):
The Supreme Court is probably going to hand down a lot of decisions in June that Going to remind Republican voters why they cared so much about the Supreme Court and why they might want to vote for Donald Trump again could a decision on abortion or Obamacare or LGBT rights just as easily energized Democrats. Yeah. I mean the one thing that I think this term is going to make clear is how high the stakes are when it comes to the Supreme

2 (20m 46s):
Court

3 (20m 49s):
historically courts have been something that have really charged up Republicans and the Democrats just haven't paid that much attention to and I mean, I've been in this business for 12 years now and I've yet to find the magic key that causes Democrats to realize that the courts are very very important. But if anything can do it it's going to be this extraordinarily contentious term that we've got coming

2 (21m 14s):
up.

3 (21m 24s):
Ian milhiser reports on the Supreme Court for vocs and is piece that published today about the Supreme Court's new term. He writes about a few cases that we didn't get to include in. Today's episode find it over at vox.com. I'm Sean Rama's from this is today

2 (21m 39s):
explained.