1 (0s):
When it comes to hiring you don't have time to waste you need help getting to your short list of qualified candidates fast. That's why you need indeed.com post a job in minutes set up screener questions, then zero in on qualified candidates using an intuitive online dashboard, and when you need to hire fast accelerate your results with sponsored jobs new users can try for free at indeed.com / explain that's indeed.com / explained terms conditions and quality standards apply offer valid through March 31st, 2020.

1 (52s):
Hey as a heads up. Today's episode features, Senator Strom Thurmond. He uses some pretty racist language at about 4:00. A half five minutes into the show just a warning. Ever since Donald Trump became the president of the United States people have resorted to this refrain online IRL. It's a bit of a mantra coping mechanism. See if you see if you know, it it goes something like

2 (1m 17s):
this. We are living in a yeah a simulation simulation. It started after he won the 2016 election. We're living in a simulation became shorthand for there's no way this can be the real outcome this cannot be happening. Where are you at? I continue to believe mr. Trump trump will not be president. There's no way that Donald Trump is going to be President. Donald Trump has won the State of Florida one of his must win States right

1 (1m 53s):
there the AP now projecting that Donald Trump has won the state of Pennsylvania. It's the

2 (1m 57s):
biggest political shocker in American history. Or moving boxes editor-at-large. Ezra Klein has a counter argument what we are living through with Donald Trump has an almost Eerie level of normalcy. The election of President

1 (2m 20s):
Donald Trump was

2 (2m 21s):
normal

1 (2m 24s):
you might have expected when somebody like Trump who has a very idiosyncratic personal style kind of crashed into the Republican Party through the side door ran in a way that people would have thought would have disqualified and other candidate bragged about his penis size. He

2 (2m 40s):
referred to my hands if they're small. Something else must be small. I guarantee you there's no problem. I guarantee he's just Integris. His father was involved in the

1 (2m 49s):
assassination of John F Kennedy. You can look that one up. He really did

2 (2m 52s):
that. Harvey Oswald prior to Oswald's being you know shot up in the whole thing is ridiculous. What what what is this rate prior to his being shot? And nobody even brings it up. I mean, they don't even talk about that and during the campaign talked about how much he liked Planned Parenthood. So security MediCare at another Point had

1 (3m 10s):
praised the Canadian single-payer Health Care

2 (3m 11s):
system as far as single-payer. It works in Canada. It works incredibly well in Scotland. It could have worked in a different age, which is the age you're talking about here. This is not the kind of candidate who would win Republican Party. Nation, and even if he

1 (3m 24s):
did certainly not the kind of candidate who would win an election and when you step back what ends up

2 (3m 30s):
happening is strikingly

1 (3m 32s):
normal. The election of President Donald Trump was normal for a country that super polarized despite being someone that during the campaign many Republicans expressed grave misgivings about you just have an election that looks very much by the numbers like almost every other election we've had that is the wages of polarization when the two parties become this different ideologically and demographically what happens is that the idea that you would vote for the other party no matter who your party is running or what they are doing becomes. Honorable and rationally that creates a politics and we're seeing this play out in impeachment and a lot of other places where the stakes of your side losing feel 280 illogically and psychologically hi to actually discipline your side when it is doing the wrong thing.

1 (4m 21s):
Ezra has been thinking about polarization a lot lately. He just wrote an entire book about it today on the show. We're going to figure out how this particular phenomenon functions in impeachment and elections. In America First up. How did we get so polarized so in the 1950s there is a move to make the parties more polarized and that can sound weird to us today because we use the word polarized as a kind of negative word an epithet sometimes but we shouldn't think about it like that what happens in the mid-century American politics was very well described. There's this famous report that came out from the American Political Science Association in 1950 called towards are responsible.

1 (5m 3s):
A two-party system and this report which is covered on the front page of the New York Times it argues that the political parties are breaking the way the American political system is supposed to work and the way they're breaking it is this that they have these state-led and Regional instantiations. And so when somebody is voting for say Strom Thurmond for Senate in the South

2 (5m 26s):
there's not enough troops in the Army to force a southern people to break down segregation and Miss Anna Grace into our theaters into our swimming pools into our homes and into our churches, but it's a Democrat

1 (5m 42s):
but in that same election you could have voted for Hubert Humphrey also a democrat in Minnesota and he would have been one of the most liberal

2 (5m 48s):
Senators the newspaper headline there will be no and there will be no watering down if you please are the instruments and the principles of the civil rights program. So the argument

1 (6m 1s):
that the the political scientists and many others made is it what parties are supposed to do in political systems is create a clear choice between different governing Visions for the country. And then when you as a Citizen cast your vote for members of One party or another you're supposed to see that choice honored that is one of the key ways you are able to exert power. Do I want Democrats to hold the Senate the house the presidency or do I want Republicans to do those things? So in the 1950s people In these parties realize it could help to be more polarized. How does it actually happen? So the rupture is the Civil Rights

2 (6m 38s):
Act Congress passes the most sweeping Civil Rights bill ever to be written into the law and thus reaffirms the conception of equality for all men that began with Lincoln and the Civil War 100 years ago

1 (6m 55s):
where you'd had until this point was this Southern dixiecrat weighing the Democratic party that was there first. Local reasons was very conservative. You have this liberal Northern Republican wing and the Civil Rights. Act is actually itself in the senate in the house a bipartisan bill. In fact a larger proportion of congressional Republicans vote for it. Then do Democrats. But Barry Goldwater runs against civil rights act as standard-bearer of the party in the following election and sort of in doing that. He reshapes apart. He's around this axis of conflict. He begins to create the Republican party as a party that is a fusion of ideological movement conservatism. and white back us politics and and finds a connection between them right that a government that does less write a smaller federal government is also a government that is not going to come in and enforce Racial equality the Democratic party, which had long had this tension between being a party of racial redistribution and economic uplift and then also party that contained this Southern dixiecrat weighing begins to then Focus as well on redistribution on worrying about poverty and that is a very very clear fusion into becoming a more diverse party because for a lot of the people Reports in the country there non-white and a lot of the reason they're very poor is legacy of horrific racial discrimination.

1 (8m 6s):
So once that happens and it takes time, it's not like every Democrat in the South becomes Republican overnight or every Republican in the north becomes a Democrat overnight. But as it begins to happen is a Democratic party becomes the liberal party and the party of diversity in the Republican Party becomes the conservative party and the party more of white Christian voters. That's the stuff both an ideological and a demographic sorting that really continues on to this day. So the He's actually start to look completely different. They actually change in who's in them. So Liliana Mason the political scientist University of Maryland. She's got these great figures in her book or she shows if you go back to the 50s and you look at different demographic groups be they religious or racial even to some degree etiological in for most cases actually with the exception of Southerners for reasons of the Dixiecrats.

1 (8m 50s):
It is very hard to find a group that had was more than 10 percentage points more represented in one party than the other. So the parties were pretty close in terms of what they look like. And then now you look, Like the lines on the chart just like race away from each other. The Democratic party is about fifty percent non-white the Republican party's about 90% white. The Democratic party has a high proportion of the country's immigrants Republican party much lower the party's really look different than obviously the Republican party is I believe it's 75% are self-identified conservatives at Democratic party, 50% self-identified liberal. So these are very very different parties now, and by the way that goes down to other things density and geography culture we can tell if you're a Democrat or Republican at pretty high.

1 (9m 30s):
All sorts of specificity depending on whether or not you live near a Whole Foods or a Cracker Barrel everybody. Yeah Democrats represent something like seventy eight percent of all Whole Foods locations and I think 28 percent or something of Cracker Barrel locations. Okay. Well beyond Whole Foods and Cracker Barrel were talking a little bit about how the parties are becoming more polarized. But what is actually happening to individuals are they becoming more polarized even outside of politics or this? Is this sort? Of like a strictly political phenomenon so hard questions. So the thing that is interesting here, is it our political identities are becoming big enough and powerful enough to absorb a lot of other identities to and so one of the things that you had for a long time was very deep division in the country, but it didn't quite map on to politics and I'll give an example Michael Tessler who's a political scientist at UC Irvine has studied racial controversies something he's looked at is how the polling broke down on Ray.

1 (10m 30s):
Controversies in the 90s versus now and the 90s by the way, you already had a lot of this polarization happening but nevertheless if you look at things that were racialized then like the OJ Simpson trial the Bernhard Goetz trial of the subway shootings in New York that kind of thing. They're very divisive in the country, but they did not divide people by party. So Republicans and Democrats had function the same views on the o j-- Simpson trial even as people are divided over it. If you look at things like that now the George Zimmerman trial the question of whether 12 years of slave should win. An Oscar a couple years ago, they were incredibly / party and this is happening in a lot of different spheres of life as he's different identities fuse together as a Democratic party becomes not just the Democratic party, but the liberal party the party that represents and looks forward to a more diverse America, etc.

1 (11m 17s):
Etc. You have a lot of dividing issues that would have always created conflict in American life. But now the particular way they create conflict is expressed politically and that can Good and I can be bad but it does divide us even more and it makes things that maybe add another point would have thought of as non-political it makes them political latches him on to politics Donald Trump. I should say is a particularly aggressive purveyor.

2 (11m 41s):
When you love to see one of these NFL owners when somebody disrespects our flag to say get that son of a bitch off the field right now out he's fired fired.

1 (11m 54s):
So you remember when Colin Kaepernick LED other NFL players in kneeling during the national anthem. That's something that you can imagine. Imagine being a dividing and conflictual issue in American life, but it's not something that I think most presidents would have decided they needed to take a position on certainly not on Twitter and demanding he be fired but he does and so what ends up happening after that is Republicans become very Grim on the NFL their ratings have it turned very unfavorable and Democrats begin to like it about this much as they had her even more and so the NFL becomes very highly polarized. So that's this issue here where political polarization Now includes a enough identities that are in other contexts non-political that it can absorb almost any fight into itself and you'd argue this kind of polarization can be good.

1 (12m 42s):
Even though it feels bad does the cost justify the benefit of say just knowing which party you belong to this is very important. There is nothing conceptually wrong with polarization as these apps arguments and others suggest in some ways. It makes much more sense. Sense for parties to be polarized which is simply to say for them to be very different from each other. So you can make a very clear choice then for them not to be polarized and for them to include a vast range of opinion that has to be worked out inside the party the problem in the American political system is it we have a system that can only function well and it's very high levels of compromised almost reaching up to consensus polarization often breaks our ability to govern it breaks our ability to do big things and to do them clearly and cleanly because it takes away.

1 (13m 30s):
That Central capacity to have that high level of compromise in other systems where you also have high levels of polarization that are more parliamentary. What happens is that somebody wins power and they have the power to govern and then the other polarized party can be mad at them. It can say you should elect us instead because you don't like what they're doing, but it can't usually stop them from governing. What we're able to do in this country is a minority can often stop the majority from being able to govern effectively and then try to win back power on top of that sabotage, but the kind of macro effect of that is people End up in a political system that is not meeting their needs where one party after another promises to solve problems and doesn't and that creates a high level of frustration and alienation that ends up making the underlying polarization problems in my view worse.

1 (14m 13s):
Is that what we're seeing play out with impeachment right now just comparing the way this impeachments going to say how Nixon's went is stunning. I mean Nixon resigns Trump is denying everything

2 (14m 24s):
fighting everyone threatening

1 (14m 26s):
those who disagree with him. Yeah a couple things here. So the Thing I'd say is that impeachment does not function of its conditions of polarization. So as you know, I have this podcast impeachment explained on Saturdays and I say on it often that fundamentally what it is ended up being is a podcast about polarization because impeachment was a mechanism built by the founding fathers at a time when we thought the American political system would resist parties. And so the primary way the system would work is that the branches would compete against each other ambition would check ambition institutionally Congress would have a sense of itself as Congress in competition for power and centrality and Primacy with the executive branch.

1 (15m 6s):
And of course that is not how things played out but we have our political parties at cooperate across branches and we're seeing that in this impeachment trial extremely explicitly Mitch McConnell has said that he is in close coordination with the White House on how he'll manage the trial Lindsey Graham and others have said that they are not going to approach as impartial jurors. They think this is all ridiculous. They think the president is great and they're going to protect him, you know at any cost. And so something that is so simple to say is you can't do impeachment given the supermajority requirements. It needs in the Senate particularly. If you do not have two political parties that are willing to set aside their interest as political parties both of them and act as Trustees of the American Constitution and the American system of government into the future.

1 (15m 55s):
Nixon when he resigns what happens is that a delegation of Republican Senators go to him and say you will not survive this because we will vote against you you will not survive because Republican party thinks that what you've done is wrong, even though you are our party leader and Nixon resigns because his own party tells him to resign think a very scary thing to consider is what would have happened if the Nixon impeachment occurred in this political condition, and I don't think there's really any question about it. If Richard Nixon's crimes had come to light in 2020 he would have survived because Republican party and Fox News would have protected him very tellingly Geraldo Rivera appeared on Sean Hannity show a couple months ago.

1 (16m 37s):
And he said to

2 (16m 38s):
Hannity the difference between Donald J Trump and Richard Nixon in Nixon's case if he had someone that stuck up for him. He wouldn't have been, you know motivated to cover up bed. Burglary you would have let the

1 (16m 53s):
perpetrator and is one of these moments. That was probably more telling than he had intended it quite to be.

2 (17m 6s):
what to do about our polarized political system more with Ezra and a minute on today explained I was watching the Grammys last night there is ad for indeed.com in which this employees and a meeting and her boss announces that this other guy got the job she wanted but then she gets like a broke notification from indeed.com being like you got that interview for that other VP position somewhere else and all of a sudden she's really stoked for the guy in the meeting who got the job. She's like cheering for him. It's a cute ad for indeed. This is also an ad for indeed.

2 (17m 46s):
When you start your hiring process. You may have questions. Will you find good applicants to choose from what about education and experience and how you know, you've made the Higher indeed is here to help millions of great candidates use indeed every day to find their next opportunity. You can post a job in minutes and use screener questions to help create your short list of applicants fast and also add skills tests to your job post. So you can be confident in your applicants abilities their library of more than 50 skills test ranges from the industry specific skills, like accounting to General aptitude test, like critical thinking indeed gives you the smart tools to make hiring decisions quickly and to be confident that you're making the right hire for your team post your job today to indeed.com explain and get a free. We sponsored job upgrade on your first posting. That's indeed.com explain terms conditions and exclusions apply.

2 (18m 31s):
The offer is valid through March 31st 2020.

1 (18m 36s):
Hey everyone, so I know you know all about Vox podcast because I talk about him all the time you listen to one right now. I know you know about boxes Netflix show explain but Vox is also just getting into the regular like narrative TV game right now. You can find a show called Little America on Apple TV plus

2 (18m 55s):
only in America Dia odd tax after you see the ticket Place only in America can such a perfect game exist Face Forward hamburgers These Burgers bacon chili cheeseburger everything on top of everything only in America. Little America comes from the people who brought you the big

1 (19m 20s):
sick and master of none. It tells 8 extraordinary true stories of immigrants coming to America people from Syria. Uganda Mexico Nigeria. These stories are funny romantic their heartfelt and inspiring and who couldn't use a little bit of that right now

2 (19m 39s):
Little America is live. Now, you can find it on the Apple TV app

1 (19m 42s):
or go straight to tv.com All.com the show is called Little America 8 episodes check him out now.

2 (19m 56s):
today today explain you spoke to President

1 (20m 3s):
Obama about these very issues in 2015. You asked him directly about polarization in the American political system. What did he say? He ran very directly on a platform of reducing polarization. He argued, you know in that famous 2004 DN c--

2 (20m 19s):
speech problems like to slice and dice our country into red States and blue states red States for Republicans blue States for Democrats, but I've got news for them to we worship an awesome guy. In the blue States and we don't like federal agents poking around in our libraries in the red States and I think

1 (20m 38s):
that Obama himself really tried in the ways he could to be less polarizing he had this like almost tick rhetorically of whenever he would say something he would first explain, you know, the other side of some good points. Like here's our arguments. Here's why I don't ultimately agree, but he really tried I think and he failed he say he tried he was Then followed by President Donald Trump, right? So he was himself by the time I spoke with him in 2015. About this the most polarizing president in the history of polling and then that Crown would be taken a couple years later by Donald Trump and then you also have to think about well, why did the Obama era ended Donald Trump? / why is that what we got after Obama after his efforts to Camptown polarization that the level of conflict in the country escalated into into the current presidency and conditions were in and I think there are a lot of reasons but one thing that Obama said to me in that time was that

2 (21m 28s):
everybody's got a family Mer or a really good friend from high school who is on the complete opposite side of the political spectrum and yet we still love them.

1 (21m 42s):
Right and his argument was that our polarized political identities are not our truest identities that if we can pull people out of that political frame and pull them into their more Community frame into their family frame. I mean, these are people who love their children and care for their aging parents and so on that we would See that a lot of our divisions are not as deep as we think they are and are in fact illusory. And the thing that I think he ultimately was somewhat wrong about is it those political identities are not that true and not that deep and as more and more identities fuse into our core political identities those identities strengthened. They become activated by constant Threat by constant reinforcement, and it makes it much harder to get out of them and much easier to pull them forward.

1 (22m 27s):
So if you look at Our system and say see polarization as this sort of infection as this disease that we have that that's leading people to vote for party without thinking putting party before principal or causing divides in our discourse. I just wonder like what do you see is ways to address it. I think about a couple things one is it I think in an era of polarization, which I do not think we're going to get out of four reasons. I described in the book, I think.

2 (23m 0s):
Gonna

1 (23m 0s):
have to move towards permitting more majoritarian forms of governance, which is to say if bipartisan compromise is increasingly basically impossible. Then you have to limit the damage that not being able to get it can do and make it possible to govern even when it is absent. So there are some simple ways to do that like getting rid of the filibuster which would at least take the out the majority supermajority requirement in the US Senate you can think about things like getting rid of the actual College dealing with gerrymandering. I think we should make DC and Puerto Rico States because we should do Ooh that because those are American citizens and they deserve our presentation but also not having them Estates. One of the things it does is it means that the Senate is which is already very tilted towards more Rural and white areas is even more so because we've disenfranchised two parts of the country that are heavily non-white you're talking about things here.

1 (23m 50s):
That seems wildly implausible considering how polarized we are blue states are okay to get rid of the electoral college, but red States aren't DC wants statehood. But Republicans don't ever want DC to get it. I mean what is an individual to do right now when the system is stuck? There isn't some magical answer here American politics. So is highly responsive to the people who are most engaged and so the question of whether or not it's going to become more manageable or more polarized more bitter or more conciliatory comes a lot from what is happening from the people who are volunteering who are Calling their members of Congress who are paying a lot of attention to political media like the show who are donating.

1 (24m 37s):
And so what they do and where they attach themselves is truly kind of what will drive the system forward but being involved at the state and local level is on the one hand a check against polarization because it's what you call a cross-cutting identity the place you live has different needs than the two major political parties and in terms of their National collisions can deal with and so, you know used to be that one of the ways that you would get saved. The other party is it yeah, you know, you're a democratic majority and you're trying to win over an Oklahoma Republican, but that Oklahoma Republican. There's a bridge that is broken in his district. And if you can help him rebuild that bridge he'll vote for you on the bill because he's an Oklahoma Republican.

1 (25m 18s):
It matters more the district. He's from then the party he represents. So I really urge people individually to spend a little bit less time on Twitter and taken note of nationalist political media a little bit more time getting re-engaged and In state and local politics, it won't fix everything for any individual person to do that. But if people did it and mass I think it would be both better for them and better for politics. Ezra Klein, thank you so much. Thank you. Ezra. Klein is now officially the author of the longest Vox article of all time. It's a book called why we're polarized and it comes out Tuesday wherever you buy your books.

1 (25m 58s):
I'm Shawn Rama's Forum. This is today explained. Ezra Klein, thank you so much. Thank you. Ezra. Klein is now officially the author of the longest Vox article of all time. It's a book called why we're polarized and it comes out Tuesday wherever you buy your books. I'm Shawn Rama's Forum. This is today explained.