0 (0s):
Chinese fashion behemoth. Shein is one of the fastest growing companies in the world, which means the people of planet Earth like it. but it has so many critics. Designers say Shein steals from them. Shein

1 (15s):
Straight up just stole my pirouette. Squirt design.

0 (18s):
Influencers say they've been misled.

2 (21s):
I make mistakes. I'm imperfect. I'm forever growing and evolving, and that's like probably one of my favorite things about

0 (27s):
Myself. Danny, sorry about that. Trip to China, Congress said, Shean being deceptive about who makes the clothes.

3 (33s):
Consumers don't. All things being equal wanna purchase goods that are contaminated by slave labor or forced labor.

0 (40s):
And a Vogue editor says the clothes are just not that good.

4 (43s):
These are not very well made clothing. They're not made to last

0 (47s):
On today. Explained as she and flirts with going public in episode. We first ran Earlier this year on why this hated company is so beloved and why this beloved company is so hated.

Fetch Pet Insurance (1m 2s):
Your pup deserves the very best, the best food, the best dog bed, the best medical care. With Fetch, Pet, Insurance, you can use any vet in the US or Canada and get paid back up to 90% on unexpected vet bills. Fetch Pet Insurance is the most comprehensive insurance for dogs and cats and covers more types of injury and illness than most other providers, including sick visit exams and breed specific issues. Get a fast and free quote at Fetch Pet dot com slash Vox.

Atlassian (1m 35s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian. Atlassian Software like Jira, confluence and Trello help power global collaboration for all teams so they can accomplish everything that's impossible alone, because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. No matter If, you're a team of two, 200 or 2 million Atlassian software keeps everyone connected and moving together as one towards shared company goals. Learn how to unleash the potential of your team at Atlassian dot com. That's A-T-L-A-S-S-I-A n.com.

7 (2m 8s):
Atlassian

0 (2m 21s):
It is today explained. I'm Noel King with Hillary Milnes, the Executive America's editor at Vogue Business. She does not shop at Sheen. I have

4 (2m 30s):
To say the user experience on the website's not, it's just not for me, it's

0 (2m 34s):
Fine. She works at Vogue, but the user experience on the website is for so many people that she and dwarfs other fast fashion companies like h and m and Zara and is valued today at $66 billion.

4 (2m 48s):
That's more than Zara and h and m combined. And so I think when people bucket them together, what doesn't really come, you know, into play or isn't really that common of knowledge, If, you don't know the fashion industry that well is just how big Sheen is compared to these other companies. And at the core of its business model is a very reactive technology based, algorithm driven response cycle that can pick up trends very quickly as they're happening. They're tapped into what's happening on social media, on the internet, and regurgitating these trends as they're coming into popularity. And a big thing that she and often talks about is that they then seed, you know, some styles onto the website and then only if they start to perform will they mass produce 'em.

4 (3m 35s):
So that's something that other fast fashion companies have done as well. But Sheena's uploading like 10,000 products a day. So it's just a, a massive operation. Gimme an

0 (3m 45s):
Example of one of the trends that they've jumped on

4 (3m 48s):
The parachute pant we're seeing Yeah, that, that, that's very popular. I, you know, like a lot of Gen Zs are really into that Y 2K style. And so you'll see like the baggy low-rise jeans, the parachute pant, the crop top, you know, it's, it's weirdly reminiscent of like the Mall fashion that we were all shopping. But you can look and and see, you know, Kendall Jenner's spotting, wearing, you know, a designer's parachute pants. We actually recently wrote about the designer that, you know, first became popular with the ones that were being worn by Kendall Jenner and Bella Hadid. Then that, you know, filters its way directly to she. And that used to take time and it now takes no time at all.

0 (4m 32s):
A thing can show up in photos and it can be like, wow, that looks really good. That should be a trend. That will be a trend, but it, it's supposed to take time to then make the thing. How does it make these things so quickly?

4 (4m 44s):
Sheen has accumulated a network of thousands. I saw 3000, I saw 6,000 exactly how many, I'm not sure. But they have a really big network of manufacturers that are making clothing under the Sheen label. Hmm. And you know, I don't think you can talk about Sheen without talking about their labor practices and that is where a lot of the criticism, controversy, and, and scrutiny comes from. Because there have been exposes, documentaries looking into the working conditions for Chian. It is zero time off, 75 hour work weeks and you know, accusations of forced labor and modern slavery.

8 (5m 22s):
If, you wanna take a day off or go back to your hometown, your wages will be deducted. This is completely unreasonable because there is no rest at all. I feel really, really tired. Exhausted

9 (5m 34s):
Rother and Bunch says most of the apparel stems from the Xinjiang province, an area where the US State Department says there's a genocide happening. Members of the Muslim minority Uyghur population often forced into prison and labor camps produce the very goods that enter the US through the apps.

4 (5m 52s):
Shein says that it has implements in place internal teams that ensure that none of the suppliers that they're working with are practicing forced labor or sourcing cotton from regions that, that have been accused of practicing forced labor. It's difficult to confirm because lots of what's wrong with Sheen, I guess you could say, is that it is so incredibly non-transparent and it's hard to know exactly what is all laddering up to what we then ultimately see on the website. What we do know though is that, you know, in the US and some other countries around the world, they've started calling for investigations into their labor practices and wanting to really cut down on Sheen's presence in the country.

0 (6m 36s):
Tell me about some of the criticisms about sustainability and what it means to have very, very, very fast. Very, very, very cheap fashion. There

4 (6m 46s):
Is no way that you can make these clothes at this volume in a way that's sustainable. I think a lot of companies, and this is across fashion, it's it's not just sheen. They look at regenerative or organic cotton. They look at alternative materials that put, you know, less plastic out into the wash whenever you wash them. Sheen could overhaul its entire material source, but at the end of the day, if they are still producing at the volume that they're producing at, it's never going to be sustainable. It outpaces the amount of production that could ever be healthy for, for the planet. And within planetary boundaries, they've, you know, been hit with lawsuits around the toxic lead that is found in their products and the amount of carbon emissions that their facilities produce.

4 (7m 34s):
And then you bring in the human rights issues in the, in the supply chain from top to bottom. It's not a sustainable company. Fashion is not a sustainable industry as a whole. Hmm. But Sheen is basically as far as you can get.

0 (7m 47s):
When, you look at survey and polling data, you find that generation Z cares more about sustainability than older generations. They're really concerned with climate change. How does she and hold onto them if it's doing things that are like documented as really bad for, for the planet. I

4 (8m 2s):
Think what it comes down to is no matter who you are, the allure of cheap, trendy clothing is pretty hard to resist. When, you don't have the means to spend on more expensive fashion and I think over time clothing itself has become separated from quality. That's just not what people buy clothing for. They're not thinking about what can last. They're thinking about what their look the best wearing and what event they're going to and what they need a new outfit for. and I think, you know, we have seen a new type of customer behavior, you know, pattern come up with Gen Z, it's, they're very into resale. They're very into secondhand shopping and thrifting has gone online.

4 (8m 45s):
And so I think people will justify new purchases by saying, oh, I can just resell it. And then that even comes, comes down to the Sheen purchase, even though ultimately these are pieces of clothing that are disposable. So it's very contradictory and I think, you know, it's, it's like the, the hive mind versus the the individual urge that's at play. Hmm.

0 (9m 9s):
Alright, this company's been around since 2008, but all of a sudden I'm reading about it everywhere in Forbes, in Bloomberg, in the New York Times, in the Wall Street Journal and in Vogue. Why have we hit like peak sheen here? Why is everyone talking about it right now? Where

4 (9m 23s):
It like blew up into public consciousness was on TikTok.

10 (9m 27s):
I spent $500 on Shein chapter

4 (9m 32s):
If. you look at Sheen's Rise in the us, it's pretty in step with tiktoks. It's over the past, you know, three years or so. And the Sheen purchase behavior is like perfect for the TikTok Hall.

10 (9m 45s):
I kind to wanna do a try on hall.

4 (9m 49s):
And so you have creators, influencers on TikTok who will buy, you know, If, you buy hundreds of dollars in Sheen clothing, that's a massive hall and then they're trying it on the hashtag Sheen Hall is trending everywhere.

12 (10m 2s):
I heard Sheen's getting banned or something or suited or something. So I had to get my last big order in and let's do a hall and I

13 (10m 9s):
Got this pink case and this pink shirt. I love

14 (10m 12s):
It. Now we have this Hounds tooth set, obsessed with it.

12 (10m 16s):
Love it. So I have a few more things coming because I just kept ordering and I couldn't stop. So there's definitely gonna be a part two,

4 (10m 25s):
It's kind of normalized that behavior, even though it's over consumption kind of flying in the face of the sustainable ethos or thoughts that Gen Z is said to be having. At the same time you have the pushback. And so that gains momentum as well because you know, a lot of people don't agree with sheen's behaviors and at the same time that's gone up to lawsuits and potential congressional action against Shian as well. And which I think also goes back to the TikTok question because we're seeing some more scrutiny around Chinese based companies over data and privacy. And so they've already kind of brought TikTok in front of Congress for that. And so the question is, is Shein next

0 (11m 6s):
And it wants to go public?

4 (11m 7s):
That's right. So there are rumors that Shein is considering an IPO, which is an initial public offering, which means that it would, you know, be a publicly listed company on the New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ or Wall Street. And Shein has not confirmed or commented on whether or not they actually are considering an IPO, but we do know that they have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars in lobbying efforts in the US so far this year. There's definitely a precedent for Chinese companies doing very well in the us but We will see, I guess if the mood changes around it and if they decide like, oh, okay, this would, this would really open us up to scrutiny.

0 (11m 54s):
Hillary Milnes of Vogue coming up, is Sheen really stealing from designers and if so, how is it doing it? A designer is gonna walk us through it.

Eli Lilly and Company (12m 31s):
Fox Creative, This is advertiser content from Eli, Lilly and Company. Dr. Brandy Matthews is a neurologist in Alzheimer's disease expert at Lilly who thinks the first step to tackling Alzheimer's is knowing what it is and what it isn't. Alzheimer's disease at the early stages, the signs and symptoms may be ignored. I, I think in part due to the association of the disease with advancing age and a lack of understanding that there's an ongoing disease process, not part of normal aging. So what might be the difference between forgetting an appointment and forgetting the name of your hometown amyloid plaque? An amyloid plaque's a clump of misfolded protein that abnormally accumulates inside of the brain and then triggers a cascade of other events. This eventually leads to disrupted communication between the brain cells. Tests are available to check for the abnormally folded sticky proteins in the brain that are associated with Alzheimer's disease using brain Pet scans, cerebral spinal fluid tests, and even more recently with some specialized blood tests. Diagnosis that's timely in a patient's disease course may also have an impact on the progression of the disease. If the intervention happens early. Empower yourself with knowledge If, you are noticing memory and thinking issues. Go to more than normal aging.com to learn more about what you can do.

CookUnity (14m 11s):
Support For today's show comes from Cook Unity If, you love to eat out, you know there are some expenses associated with that. You might wanna check out Cook Unity, which says they're the first quote chef to you. Service delivering locally sourced meals from award-winning chefs right to your door every week. Plus says Cook Unity, it's cheaper than most other delivery options. Cook Unity provides hundreds of dishes, seven different dietary preferences. The vegans, the paleo, the pescatarian, the gluten-free and more menus are posted two weeks in advance. Sarah Frank, our colleague from the business side of things at Vox, tried out Cook Unity. I recently Had the chance to try Cook Unity and I was really impressed. What's really different here than lots of other meal plans is this food comes fresh, not frozen. Chef quality meals every week delivered right to your door. You can go to cook unity.com/explained or enter code explained before checkout for 50% off your first week. That's 50% off your first week using Code Explained or by going to cook unity.com/ Explained.

Atlassian (15m 19s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian. Atlassian Software like Jira, confluence and Trello help power the collaboration for teams to accomplish what would otherwise be impossible alone. Because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. That's why millions of teams around the world, including 75% of the Fortune 500 trust Atlassian software for everything from space exploration and green energy to delivering pizzas and podcasts. Whether you're a team of two, 200 or 2 million, or whether your team is around the corner or around another continent altogether, Atlassian software is built to help keep you all on the same page from start to finish. That way every one of your teams from engineering and IT to marketing, HR and legal can stay connected and moving together as one towards shared company-wide goals, learn how to unleash the potential of your team at Atlassian dot com. That's A-T-L-A-S-S-I-A n.com. Atlassian.

18 (16m 29s):
I am Joanna Cosentino, I am a crochet designer where I sell my crochet pluses, accessories and I also design clothing. And then I sell the pattern. I think my designs get popular because nowadays like the trend I would say is color and expressing yourself through color. My patterns kind of are, they're simple, but like they are colorful and like sometimes have a fun graphic on it and I think people like that. It was, I believe the summer of 2021, a follower had messaged me on Instagram and they said that they were online and they saw my strawberry vest. It's like a circular kind of shape.

18 (17m 10s):
It has Mint green on it with pink trim at the bottom and like pink trim around the shoulders. And then in the middle is like a really plump red strawberry with some green leaves. And they sent me a screenshot of this strawberry vest that Sheen was selling. It was Mint green with a pink trim strawberry in the center, the exact same color scheme and design as mine, except it was made with like a fake knit stitch. So it was clearly mass produced with a much cheaper material. I sell the PDF pattern to make it yourself on Etsy for about $10. But if I were to make the strawberry vest by hand and sell it, I usually sell it for anywhere between 90 to a hundred dollars just based on the materials, the labor they were selling the finished piece for $12.

18 (18m 0s):
And obviously this wasn't actually crocheted by hand, it was a machine mock knit stitch. The fact that they were selling it for $12, which is only $2 shy of just the pattern for it, says a lot about how exploited the labor is.

0 (18m 18s):
That was designer Joanna Cosentino. Hillary Milnes is our co-pilot this half hour. She's an editor at Vogue Business. So Hilary Joanna says, Shein stole a vest pattern from her. This is how I learned. We're doing vests again and they sold it for cheaper than she could. When this happens, is there ever accountability for the big company?

4 (18m 40s):
It's definitely not new for designers to accuse fast fashion companies of ripping off their designs. And historically the most that really happens is that the, the fast fashion company gets some bad press. It's very hard to kinda get, you know, any sort of copyrights around fashion ip. And this has been, you know, just a longstanding fact or factor in the fashion industry when it comes to who owns what design. This

18 (19m 3s):
Had been happening to like so many crocheters that I follow, like mutual designers in the community that I wasn't surprised when they sent me this message. And then I posted on Instagram a side by side of the screenshot of Sheen's design and my design with me wearing it next to it and I just announced it to my followers that, hey, this happened to me. Sheen is like this really shady company like If, you can just do not support them. And the picture kind of blew up.

4 (19m 32s):
That said, I, there are some interesting nuances about the Sheen lawsuit that stand out and make it feel a bit different. The most recent lawsuit I, I think on the designer side was a few coming together and they accused she and of being in violation of the Riko Act, which was set up I think in the 1970s to fight organized crime and of racketeering. So this lawsuit is different in that it's not saying, you know, look at my design, she and ripped it off. This was a standalone offense, but it's saying that design theft is a core part of Sheen's business model. Basically implying that if Shehan did not rip off design from other designers on mass, then she and would have no business.

4 (20m 14s):
Oh,

0 (20m 14s):
Because there's no, like, there's no Coco Chanel, there's the design house, but there's no designer. So the brains are coming from elsewhere, right? Yeah. More or less it, you know, in this day and age, I think you could look at this and say, this company uses technology to identify trends and then it makes them, how does that become illegal? It seems smart.

4 (20m 38s):
It's not illegal on its own. We, we look at how many companies and, you know, design houses themselves are starting to use AI and technology to help inform the design process. So the narrative is typically how is fashion combining art and science and you know, where, how do you get the right balance? And a lot of fashion is, you know, creating the trends, not just following them, not just repeating them. So you need to have some element of, you know, I know what my customer will want before they even want it. you know, If, you bring in too much data, then you're just gonna kind of be in, in the same repetitive process. So Sheen is not, it's not using its own customer data to inform its design trends and then bringing in exactly what you said that that designer element on top that creates something new out of what they are predicting their customer will want.

4 (21m 31s):
It is sourcing customer data from all over the internet in order to pick up on what trends the customer will want to buy on mass as close as possible to as soon as they're wanting it. So it's reactive. It's not leading any sort of design trend. you know, you mentioned, is it, is it illegal? I think that's what we're going to, to find out whenever we see how these lawsuits go. But one thing that the recent lawsuit from the designers mentioned was that she and was worse than TikTok in terms of how it protected or, you know, did not protect customer data and privacy, which again is notable considering TikTok was questioned by Congress in terms of how they used customer data in the us

0 (22m 15s):
Okay. So this company is facing just about every kind of criticism a company can face up and down the ladder. Has it tried to fix its reputation? Has it done any sort of public outreach?

4 (22m 29s):
Yeah, so I think the most notable example of of she and trying to change the narrative around its business and its practices was the June influencer trip.

0 (22m 40s):
Oh yeah.

4 (22m 45s):
Essentially she and flew some influencers out to a couple of their manufacturing plants, showed them around and really fed them topics to, to talk about

19 (23m 1s):
Getting to see the whole process of Sheen clothing from beginning to end with my own two eyes was so important.

4 (23m 7s):
So they were showing basically the how the technology is such a core part of Sheen and they were very complimentary in terms of like how advanced Shehan was and met some of the workers and talked about how well treated they were. Everybody

20 (23m 30s):
Was just working like normal, like chills sitting down. They weren't even sweating.

21 (23m 34s):
Now I can go home feeling reassured, feeling confident in my partnership with Sheen.

4 (23m 40s):
It looks very clean. It, you know, it did not match any sort of notion of what we think a sweatshop worked look like.

22 (23m 48s):
She had sent influencers to its factories to show them, I guess, that they don't abuse their workers. The influencers took their PR spin for gospel and reported back to their millions of combined followers.

4 (23m 57s):
The takeaway was to be, oh, you know, this is just a very technology advanced company. They are treating their workers well workers and they are, you know, working in environments that are very safe and friendly and you know, able to be toured in a very modern looking like office environment.

0 (24m 14s):
Okay. So all of this, and on top of that, the OG influencers, American congresspeople are mad at Sheen two.

4 (24m 23s):
You have select committees in Congress who are in calling on Sheen to change its practices and wanting to dig into these forced labor allegations as well as looking into sheen's shipping practices into the us. And so the way that Sheen is able to get so much volume into the us, they've actually found a shipping loophole. So it's, it's called de minimis shipping. And it basically says that any company that if you're shipping goods under $800 worth of value into the us, they will not be taxed import Taxes and they will also not be scrutinized as much as any other retailer might be.

4 (25m 5s):
So it's not going through customs basically in the same way. So this has really been a key mechanism for, for she and when it comes to growing its business in the US and I think Congress is now kind of picking up on the fact that she and as well as Temu both building their businesses off of this practice,

9 (25m 23s):
Bulk sales from China over $800 are subject to American tariffs. But because each Shein and Timus sale is processed individually and cheap, both companies are able to sell hundreds of millions of dollars worth of clothes in the US tariff free.

0 (25m 40s):
I'm an old millennial, so I heard about Shehan not through the TikTok or through the Insta, I, I actually read news stories about it and heard like this is a company that potentially is doing some terrible things. And then I, I went on their website and I was like, oh my God, this is so cheap, this is so trendy. and I filled up a cart. And then I thought through what was happening and I closed out. I didn't buy anything. I went to LL Bean instead. And, and, and it makes me think I mean I am not the generation that Shein is meant to appeal to. But I wonder, If you think, does the responsibility for ensuring that this company does better, does it just lie with the people who are gonna go on and fill up their carts?

4 (26m 22s):
Absolutely not. I don't think we can, we can expect most people to have the, the sheen to ll Bean cart pipeline and I. I think that a lot of the, the thinking around customers will vote for their dollars is, is kind of a myth when it comes to sustainability. When your dollar just isn't going that far and you know, you are either, you know, believe you don't have the, the extra, you know, money to spend on nicer clothing or you're just, you know, someone who's young, you're in college And, you have a lot of events that you're going to, you, you're constantly seen on social media. You're keeping up with your friends who are also buying the trends. Like it just becomes such a force that can't count on the customer to make those decisions to such an extent that it will put this company out of business.

4 (27m 13s):
I think at the end of the day, it is going to come down to legislation regulation and kinda like the market forces to, to rewrite this company because we just can't ask customers to take them down themselves.

5 (27m 30s):
Hillary

0 (27m 31s):
Milnes of Vogue the magazine, today's show was produced by Halima Shaw, editing by Matthew Collette and Amina El Sadi Facts by Laura Bullard Engineering by David Herman and Patrick Boyd. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.