0 (0s):
Chinese fashion behemoth. Shein is one of the fastest growing companies in the world, which means the people of planet Earth like it. But it has so many critics. Designers say Shein steals from them. Shein

1 (15s):
Straight up just stole my pirouette. Squirt design.

0 (19s):
Influencers say they've been misled.

2 (21s):
I make mistakes. I'm imperfect. I'm forever growing and evolving. And that's like probably one of my favorite things about myself.

0 (28s):
Danny, sorry about that. Trip to China, Congress said, Shean being deceptive about who makes the clothes.

3 (34s):
Consumers don't. All things being equal wanna purchase goods that are contaminated by slave labor or forced labor.

0 (40s):
And a Vogue editor says the clothes are just not that good.

4 (44s):
These are not very well made clothing. They're not made to last.

0 (48s):
Coming up on today explained as she and flirts with going public. Why is this hated company so beloved? And why is this beloved company so hated?

Intuit Vultures Pop Culture (1m 1s):
Hollywood writers and actors are still striking and one of the things they're fighting against is AI swooping in and taking their jobs. But truth is AI is already all over Hollywood. You know, Harrison Ford has come out and said that he not only is okay with the de aging process that was used in the most recent Indiana Jones, but he thought it was skillfully done. The fight over AI in TV and film this week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast.

8 (1m 37s):
The way we talk about mental health is changing and that's a good thing. But while the conversation has shifted, access and insurance haven't caught up.

9 (1m 47s):
We have research that shows mental health care is three to five times more likely to be treated by an out-of-network provider as opposed to an in-network provider.

8 (1m 59s):
So why is it so hard to get insurance to pay? That's next time on the weeds.

0 (2m 15s):
It is today explained. I'm Noel King with Hillary Milnes, the Executive America's editor at Vogue Business. She does not shop at Shein. I have

4 (2m 24s):
To say that user experience on the website's not, it's just not for me, it's fine.

0 (2m 28s):
She works at Vogue, but the user experience on the website is for so many people that she and dwarfs other fast fashion companies like h and m and Zara and is valued today at $66 billion.

4 (2m 42s):
That's More than Zara and h and m combined. And so I think when people bucket them together, what doesn't really come, you know, into play or isn't really that common of knowledge, if you don't know the fashion industry that well, is just how big Sheen is compared to these other companies. And at the core of its business model is a very reactive technology based, algorithm driven response cycle that can pick up trends very quickly as they're happening. They're tapped into what's happening on social media, on the internet, and regurgitating these trends as they're coming into popularity. And a big thing that she and often talks about is that they then seed, you know, some styles onto the website and then only if they start to perform will they mass produce 'em.

4 (3m 29s):
So that's something that other fast fashion companies have done as well. But she is uploading like 10,000 products a day. So it's just a, a massive operation. Gimme an

0 (3m 39s):
Example of one of the trends that they've jumped on

4 (3m 42s):
The parachute pant. We're seeing, seeing that, that that's very popular. I, you know, like a lot of Gen Zs are really into that Y two K style. And so you'll see like the baggy low-rise jeans, the parachute pant, the crop top, you know, it's, it's weirdly reminiscent of like the mall fashion that We were all shopping. But you can look and and see, you know, Kendall Jenners spotting, wearing, you know, a designer's parachute pant. We actually recently wrote about the designer that, you know, first became popular with the ones that were being worn by Kendall Jenner and Bella Hadid. Then that, you know, filters its way directly to she. And, and that used to take time and it now takes no time at all.

0 (4m 26s):
A thing can show up in photos and it can be like, wow, that looks really good. That should be a trend. That will be a trend. But it, it's supposed to take time to then make the thing. How does it make these things so quickly?

4 (4m 38s):
Sheen has accumulated a network of thousands. I saw 3000, I saw 6,000 exactly how many, I'm not sure. but they have a really big network of manufacturers that are making clothing under the Sheen label. Hmm. And you know, I don't think you can talk about Sheen without talking about their labor practices. And that is where a lot of the criticism, controversy, and, and scrutiny comes from because there have been exposes, documentaries looking into the working conditions for Sheen. It is zero time off, 75 hour work weeks and you know, accusations of forced labor and modern slavery.

10 (5m 16s):
If you wanna take a day off or go back to your hometown, your wages will be deducted. This is completely unreasonable because there's no rest at all. I feel really, really tired. Exhausted

11 (5m 28s):
Rother and Bunch says most of the apparel stems from the Xinjiang province, an area where the US State Department says there's a genocide happening. Members of the Muslim minority Uyghur population often forced into prison and labor camps produce the very goods that enter the US through the apps.

4 (5m 46s):
Shein says that it has implements in place internal teams that ensure that none of the suppliers that they're working with are practicing forced labor or sourcing cotton from regions that, that have been accused of practicing forced labor. It's difficult to confirm because lots of what's wrong with Sheen, I guess you could say, is that it is so incredibly non-transparent and it's hard to know exactly what is all laddering up to what we then ultimately see on the website. What we do know though is that, you know, in the US and some other countries around the world, they've started calling for investigations into their labor practices and wanting to really cut down on Sheen's presence in the country.

4 (6m 30s):
Tell me about

0 (6m 31s):
Some of the criticisms about sustainability and what it means to have very, very, very fast. Very, very, very cheap fashion.

4 (6m 40s):
There is no way that you can make these clothes at this volume in a way that's sustainable. I think a lot of companies, and this is across fashion, it's it's not just sheen. They look at regenerative or organic cotton. They look at alternative materials that put, you know, less plastic out into the wash whenever you wash them. Sheen could overhaul its entire material source, but at the end of the day, if they are still producing at the volume that they're producing at, it's never going to be sustainable. It outpaces the amount of production that could ever be healthy for, for the planet. And within planetary boundaries they've, you know, been hit with lawsuits around the toxic lead that is found in their products and the amount of carbon emissions that their facilities produce.

4 (7m 28s):
And then you bring in the human rights issues in the, in the supply chain from top to bottom. It's not a sustainable company. Fashion is not a sustainable industry as a whole. Hmm. But Sheen is basically as far as you can get.

0 (7m 41s):
When you look at survey and polling data, you find that generation Z cares more about sustainability then older generations, they're really concerned with climate change. How does Sheen hold onto them if it's doing things that are like documented as really bad for, for the planet? I

4 (7m 56s):
Think what it comes down to is no matter who you are, the allure of cheap, trendy clothing is pretty hard to resist when you don't have the means to spend on more expensive fashion. And I think over time clothing itself has become separated from quality. That's just not what people buy clothing for. They're not thinking about what can last. They're thinking about what they're look the best wearing and what event they're going to and what they need a new outfit for. And I think, you know, we have seen a new type of customer behavior, you know, pattern come up with Gen Z, it's, they're very into resale. They're very into secondhand shopping and thrifting has gone online.

4 (8m 39s):
And so I think people will justify new purchases by saying, oh, I can just resell it. And then that even comes, comes down to the Sheen purges, even though ultimately these are pieces of clothing that are disposable. So it's very contradictory and I, I think, you know, it's, it's like the, the Hive mind versus the the individual urge that's at play. Hmm.

0 (9m 3s):
Alright, this company's been around since 2008, but all of a sudden I'm reading about it everywhere in Forbes, in Bloomberg, in the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal and in Vogue, why have we hit like peak sheen here? Why is everyone talking about it right now? Where

4 (9m 17s):
It like blew up into public consciousness was on TikTok,

12 (9m 21s):
I spent $500 on Shein.

4 (9m 26s):
If you look at Sheen's Rise in the US, it's pretty in step with toss. It's over the past, you know, three years or so. And the Sheen purchase behavior is like perfect for the TikTok Hall.

12 (9m 39s):
I kind wanna do a try on Hall.

4 (9m 43s):
And so you have creators, influencers on TikTok who will buy, you know, if you buy hundreds of dollars in Sheen clothing, that's a massive hall. And then they're trying it on the hashtag Sheen Hall is trending everywhere.

14 (9m 56s):
I heard Sheen's getting banned or something or suited or something. So I had to get my last big order in and let's do a hall and

15 (10m 3s):
I got this pink case and this pink shirt. I love it.

16 (10m 6s):
Now we have this hounds too set, obsessed with it. Love

14 (10m 10s):
It. So I have a few more things coming because I just kept ordering and I couldn't stop. So there's definitely gonna be part two.

4 (10m 20s):
It's kind of normalized that behavior, even though it's over consumption kind of flying in the face of the sustainable ethos or thoughts that Gen Z is said to be having. At the same time you have the pushback. And so that gains momentum as well because you know, a lot of people don't agree with sheen's behaviors and at the same time that's gone up to lawsuits and potential congressional action against Sheen as well. And which I think also goes back to the TikTok question because we're seeing some more scrutiny around Chinese-based companies over data and privacy. And so they've already kind of brought TikTok in front of Congress for that. And so the question is, is she in next

0 (10m 60s):
And it wants to go public.

4 (11m 1s):
That's right. So there are rumors that Shehan is considering an I P O, which is an initial public offering, which means that it would, you know, be a publicly listed company on the New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ or Wall Street. And Shehan has not confirmed or commented on whether or not they actually are considering an I P O, but we do know that they have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars in lobbying efforts in the US so far this year. There's definitely a precedent for Chinese companies doing very well in the us but we will see, I guess if the mood changes around it and if they decide like, oh, okay, this would, this would really open us up to scrutiny.

0 (11m 48s):
Hillary Milnes of Vogue coming up, is Sheen really stealing from designers and if so, how is it doing it? A designer is gonna walk us through it.

6 (12m 9s):
Basically. The more I talk through this with y'all, the more I am perplexed. I do not know

18 (12m 17s):
This week on Unexplainable, we're bringing you a new episode of our game show, unexplainable or not, and we've got three potential mysteries. One

6 (12m 27s):
Oh

18 (12m 28s):
Mystery two

5 (12m 30s):
Oh

6 (12m 30s):
That's so cute.

18 (12m 32s):
And Mystery three

6 (12m 33s):
Oh, my God Stop. I should have been a scientist.

18 (12m 38s):
Our guest this week is Sam Sanders, host of Vultures Intuit podcast.

6 (12m 43s):
I'm good at some things, I'm not particularly good at science things, but I love to talk.

18 (12m 50s):
Sam's gonna try to guess which of these mysteries are still mysteries and which one has actually recently been solved.

6 (12m 58s):
I'm scared, I don't know if I'm right or wrong

18 (13m 0s):
To find out. Follow Unexplainable for new episodes every Wednesday.

19 (13m 7s):
Hi, I'm Neli Patel, editor-in-chief of the Verge and host of the Decoder podcast. This September I'm taking over as one of the new hosts of the code conference alongside CNBC's, Julia Borson and Casey Newton from Platformer and Hard Fork. You've heard us all talk to major players in the worlds of tech and business on our shows, but code has live unfiltered journalism you won't find anywhere else. This year we have onstage interviews with x slash Twitter, c o Linda Yao, Microsoft C T O, Kevin Scott, and many more. From AI to streaming platform shifts to privacy. No one knows exactly where we're headed, but code is where the world's most influential people come together to find out. Join us for the start of a new era.

19 (13m 48s):
Apply to attend the code conference now at Vox media.com/code. That's Vox media.com/code. We'll see you in September.

20 (14m 9s):
I am Joanna Cosentino. I am a crochet designer where I sell my crochet pluses accessories and I also design clothing and then I sell the pattern. I think my designs get popular because nowadays like the trend I would say is color and expressing yourself through color. My patterns kind of are, they're simple, but like they are colorful and like sometimes have a fun graphic on it and I think people like that. It was, I believe, This summer of 2021. A follower had messaged me on Instagram and they said that they were online and they saw my strawberry vest. It's like a circular kind of shape.

20 (14m 51s):
It has mint green on it with pink trim at the bottom and like pink trim around the shoulders. And then in the middle is like a really plump red strawberry with some green leaves. And they sent me a screenshot of this strawberry vest that she was selling. It was mint green with a pink trim strawberry in the center, the exact same color scheme and design as mine, except it was made with like a fake knit stitch. So it was clearly mass produced with a much cheaper material. I sell the P d F pattern to make it yourself on Etsy for about $10, but if I were to make the strawberry vest by hand and sell it, I usually sell it for anywhere between 90 to a hundred dollars just based on the materials, the labor they were selling the finished piece for $12.

20 (15m 41s):
And obviously this wasn't actually crocheted by hand, it was a machine mock knit stitch. The fact that they were selling it for $12, which is only $2 shy of just the pattern for it, says a lot about how exploited the labor is.

0 (15m 58s):
That was designer Joanna Cosentino. Hillary Milnes is our co-pilot this half hour. She's an editor at Vogue Business. So Hilary Joanna says she in stole a vest pattern from her. This is how I learned, we're doing vests again and they sold it for cheaper than she could. When this happens, is there ever accountability for the big company?

4 (16m 20s):
It's definitely not new for designers to accuse fast fashion companies of ripping off their designs. And historically the most that really happens is that the, the fast fashion company gets some bad press. It's very hard to kinda get, you know, any sort of copyrights around fashion ip. And this has been, you know, just a longstanding fact or factor in the fashion industry when it comes to who owns what design.

20 (16m 44s):
This had been happening to like so many crocheters that I follow, like mutual designers in the community that I wasn't surprised when they sent me this message. And then I posted on Instagram a side by side of the screenshot of Sheen's design and my design with me wearing it next to it. And I just announced it to my followers that, hey, this happened to me. Sheen is like this really shady company. Like if you can just do not support them. And the picture kind of blew up.

4 (17m 12s):
That said, I, there are some interesting nuances about the Sheen lawsuit that stand out and make it feel a bit different. The most recent lawsuit I, I think on the designer side was a few coming together and they accused she and of being in violation of the Riko Act, which was set up I think in the 1970s to fight organized crime and of racketeering. So this lawsuit is different in that it's not saying, you know, look at my design, she and ripped it off. This was a standalone offense, but it's saying that design theft is a core part of Sheen's business model. Basically implying that if she did not rip off design from other designers on mass, then she would have no business.

0 (17m 55s):
Oh, because there's no, like, there's no cocoa Chanel, there's the design house, but there's no designer, so the brains are coming from elsewhere, right? Yeah. More or less it, you know, in this day and age, I think you could look at this and say this company uses technology to identify trends and then it makes them, how does that become illegal? It seems smart.

4 (18m 19s):
It's not illegal on its own. We, we look at how many companies and, you know, design houses themselves are starting to use AI and technology to help inform the design process. So the narrative is typically how is fashion combining art and science and you know, where, how do you get the right balance? And a lot of fashion is, you know, creating the trends, not just following them, not just repeating them. So you need to have some element of, you know, I know what my customer will want before they even want it. you know, if you bring in too much data, then you're just gonna kind of be in, in the same repetitive process. So Sheen is not, it's not using its own customer data to inform its design trends and then bringing in exactly what you said that that designer element on top that creates something new out of what they are predicting their customer will want.

4 (19m 12s):
It is sourcing customer data from all over the internet in order to pick up on what trends the customer will want to buy on mass as close as possible to as soon as they're wanting it. So it's reactive. It's not leading any sort of design trend. you know, you mentioned, is it, is it illegal? I think that's what we're going to, to find out whenever we see how these lawsuits go. But one thing that the recent lawsuit from the designers mentioned was that Shein was worse than TikTok in terms of how it protected or, you know, did not protect customer data and privacy, which again is notable considering TikTok was questioned by Congress in terms of how they used customer data in the us.

0 (19m 56s):
Okay. So this company is facing just about every kind of criticism a company can face up and down the ladder. Has it tried to fix its reputation? Has it done any sort of public outreach?

4 (20m 9s):
Yeah, so I think the most notable example of of she and trying to change the narrative around its business and its practices was the June influencer trip.

0 (20m 21s):
Oh yeah.

4 (20m 26s):
Essentially she and flew some influencers out to a couple of their manufacturing plants, showed them around and really fed them topics to, to talk about getting

21 (20m 42s):
To see the whole process of she and clothing from beginning to end with my own two eyes was so important.

4 (20m 47s):
So they were showing basically the how the technology is such a core part of Sheen and they were very complimentary in terms of like how advanced sheen was.

22 (21m 3s):
I,

4 (21m 5s):
And met some of the workers and talked about how well treated they were.

23 (21m 10s):
Everybody was just working like normal, like chill, sitting down. They weren't even sweating.

24 (21m 14s):
Now I can go home feeling reassured, feeling confident in my partnership with Sheen.

4 (21m 21s):
It looks very clean. It, you know, it did not match any sort of notion of what we think a sweatshop worked look like.

25 (21m 28s):
She had sent influencers to its factories to show them, I guess, that they don't abuse their workers. The influencers took their PR spin for gospel and reported back to their millions of combined followers.

4 (21m 38s):
The takeaway was to be, oh, you know, this is just a very technology advanced company. They are treating their workers well and they are, you know, working in environments that are very safe and friendly and you know, able to be toward, in a very modern looking like office environment.

0 (21m 55s):
Okay. So all of this, and on top of that, the OG influencers, American congresspeople are mad at Sheen two.

4 (22m 3s):
You have select committees in Congress who are in calling on Sheen to change its practices and wanting to dig into these forced labor allegations as well as looking into sheen's shipping practices into the us. And so the way that Sheen is able to get so much volume into the us, they've actually found a shipping loophole. So it's, it's called de minimis shipping. And it basically says that any company that if you're shipping goods under $800 worth of value into the us, they will not be taxed import taxes and they will also not be scrutinized as much as any other retailer might be.

4 (22m 45s):
So it's not going through customs basically in the same way. So this has really been a key mechanism for, for she and when it comes to growing its business in the us and I think Congress is now kind of picking up on the fact that she and as well as Temu both building their businesses off of this practice,

11 (23m 4s):
Bulk sales from China over $800 are subject to American tariffs. But because each Shein and Temu sale is processed individually and cheap, both companies are able to sell hundreds of millions of dollars worth of clothes in the US tariff free.

0 (23m 21s):
I'm an old millennial, so I heard about Shehan not through the TikTok or through the Insta, I, I actually read news stories about it and heard like this is a company that potentially is doing some terrible things. And then I, I went on their website and I was like, Oh, my God, this is so cheap, this is so trendy. And I filled up a cart and then I thought through what was happening and I closed out. I didn't buy anything. I went to l l Bean instead. And, and, and it makes me think, I mean, I am not the generation that she and is meant to appeal to, but I wonder if you think, does the responsibility for ensuring that this company does better, does it just lie with the people who are gonna go on and fill up their carts?

4 (24m 3s):
Absolutely not. I don't think we can expect most people to have the, the Shein to ll Bean cart pipeline. And I, I think that a lot of the, the thinking around customers will vote for their dollars is, is kind of a myth when it comes to sustainability. When your dollar just isn't going that far and you know, you are either, you know, believe you don't have the, the extra, you know, money to spend on nicer clothing or you're just, you know, someone who's young. You're in college and you have a lot of events that you're going to, you have, you're constantly seeing on social media. You're keeping up with your friends who are also buying the trends. Like it just becomes such a force that can't count on the customer to make those decisions to such an extent that it will put this company out of business.

4 (24m 52s):
I think at the end of the day it is going to come down to legislation regulation and kinda like the market forces to, to rewrite this company because we just can't ask customers to take them down themselves.

0 (25m 10s):
Hillary Milnes of Vogue the magazine, today's show was produced by Halima Shaw, editing by Matthew Collette and Amina El Facts by Laura Bullard Engineering by David Herman and Patrick Boyd. Now before we go, we would love it if you could help us out on a show that's gonna be airing next week about this new medication for postpartum depression. If you've experienced postpartum, if you've heard about this medicine, if you have questions, we would love to hear from you. You can give us a call and leave us a message at 2 0 2 6 8 8 5 9 4 4 2 0 2 6 8 8 5 9 4 4. Give us your name, tell us where you're calling from, let us know what's on your mind, 2 0 2 6 8 8 5 9 4 4 and just know that we might use your voicemail in an upcoming episode.

0 (25m 57s):
Thank you. I'm Noelle King, it's today explained.