0 (0s):
What does that people have internet I'm Marquez, Brownlee, AK MKBHD. And I just want to quickly tell you about my podcast way form. So I've been making tech review videos on YouTube for over a decade. And through the years I've gotten my hands on some pretty cool jaw dropping tech on wave form, along with my co-host Andrew Mangan Nelly, we take a more, in-depth look at some of the most recent bleeding edge tech out today. We covered the crazy stuff that you don't see every day, like camera, robot, arms, and rollable TVs. But we also covered the everyday tech like smart phones, laptops, and like the influx of EVs that seem to come out or what feels like every other week. So if you want to stay up to date with the latest tech and internet news, you can find us on Spotify, apple podcasts, or anywhere you listen. See you there

1 (42s):
One week ago, the most influential Japanese politician since maybe emperor Hirohito was assassinated

2 (49s):
Tonight, the assassination of former prime minister Shinzo abbaye shot, not just Japan, but the world

1 (56s):
Shinzo Abby was killed while campaigning for his LDP, the liberal democratic party, which days later gained a super majority in the Japanese Parlin

3 (1m 7s):
Prime minister. <inaudible> pledged to continue working on Abby's legacy. I work on challenges that I may could not solve on his own.

1 (1m 15s):
The election win could be key in realizing Arby's ultimate vision for Japan.

4 (1m 21s):
You want it to make the Japanese state better defending itself. We want it to build a proper national security establishment. You wanted to lift the restrictions on what the Japanese military could do, both just to defend Japan, but then also to work in collaboration with the United States, with other countries,

1 (1m 36s):
Shinzo lobbies call to arms coming up on today. Explain today explained Sean Rama's from, with Tobias Harris,

4 (1m 53s):
Author of the iconic class Shinzo obey and the new Japan, which is the only English language biography of the late prime minister.

1 (2m 2s):
Tobias is still in a bit of a state

4 (2m 4s):
Shock that I think I'm still working through, to be honest,

1 (2m 7s):
The whole thing's extra shocking because Japan,

2 (2m 10s):
Japan has some of the strictest gun control laws in the world.

1 (2m 15s):
Unlike some countries, not a ton of guns,

2 (2m 18s):
The suspect was quickly apprehended police say he used a homemade gun

1 (2m 23s):
And a little ironic if we're being real because Shinzo lobby's whole thing was beefing up. Japan's military autonomy, which it lost after world war II. This hawkish former prime minister who wanted to militarize a conflict averse country shot dead with a homemade gun by a former Japanese soldier on the show today, we're going to try and understand why Shinzo ABI was so gung ho on remilitarizing Japan and whether his death could ultimately secure his vision.

4 (2m 55s):
What is becoming clear? What really has become clear in the last few days is just how monumental and towering a figure he was in Japanese politics and around the world.

1 (3m 6s):
Tobias is our guide

4 (3m 8s):
Globally. You know, he was, you know, an extremely activist prime minister have traveled the world, you know, 80 something trips over the course of his second premiership, constantly meeting with world leaders, constantly trying to raise your Pan's profile in the world stage

7 (3m 22s):
Honored to have my friend prime minister, ABI Japan. We have many things to discuss.

4 (3m 29s):
And the tributes that came in from around the world immediately after his death are just, I mean, it just is a measure of, you know, just how big his footprint was globally.

8 (3m 38s):
Cindy has prime minister, Narendra Modi said he was shocked and sad. And beyond words, India has declared one day of national mourning for RB on the 9th of July as a mark of respect for the fallen statesman,

4 (3m 47s):
No Japanese leader has matched maybe ever, certainly not in a long time.

1 (3m 52s):
What's his backstory. How did he come to power

4 (3m 54s):
With obey? You have to start with his family. Both of his grandfathers were in politics, his maternal grandfather teaching the Busquets, the one who's certainly more famous. He was a member of to-do's wartime cabinet, including the cabinet to declared war on the United States wound up in prison as a suspected war criminal after the war was not tried returned to politics in the 1950s became prime minister. Again, I mean, just this really fascinating figure whose career spanned a lot of years,

10 (4m 29s):
18 years after Pearl Harbor, premier Kishi, a one time war, criminal links, his country's future, and more closely with the United States.

4 (4m 36s):
And he really bequeath to his grandson, this vision of removing these post-war restrictions, helping Japan, reclaim its rightful place in the sun. So to speak

11 (4m 49s):
There's baker. The prime minister of Japan

4 (4m 57s):
Very much got that from his grandfather,

9 (4m 59s):
1957 <inaudible> Tishi my grandfather standing right here, began his address by saying it is because of our strong belief in the Patek principles and ideas that Japan associates ourself with a free nations of the world.

4 (5m 36s):
But his father was also a really important political figure in his own, right. You know, faction leader in the 1980s, longtime foreign minister, who I've actually worked as a private secretary to during those years. And so kind of traveled the world and, and saw from his father how to succeed in personal diplomacy. And then also tragically died young just before really. He was due to become prime minister. And so bay interest politics, two years after his father's death, inherits a seat and is kind of helped along. It sort of sped along in his career because his father had so many people who were loyal to him and then wanted to pay favors to his son.

4 (6m 17s):
And so Amit ended up speeding through a lot of kind of checkpoints and ends up becoming prime minister only 13 years after entering politics, which is very unusual. Yeah. And he admitted himself that he was not ready for it, that he hadn't had enough seasoning. He hadn't done enough of the jobs that would have prepared him to be prime minister. And his first premiership is just an absolute mess. I mean, it, it just, you know, he relied on bad advisers, his judgment wasn't good. I mean, he just one thing after another ends up leading the LDP to a big electoral defeat,

12 (6m 51s):
I think probably irresponsible a dereliction of palette, government surrendered, all phrases used in the Japanese press off to the surprise resignation of prime minister Shinzo Arba

4 (7m 2s):
2007. It looks like his career is over resigns, also happen to be suffering from an attack of his chronic digestive ailment. And yet somehow, you know, over the next couple of years, returns to political activity. Once again becomes sort of the leading conservative reinvents himself as someone who had an economic plan for Japan. And by 2012 is back at the top of the LVP becomes prime minister again, and really has an opportunity to put his vision for a new Japan forward. And what does that vision? The vision really is to, to a great extent what he inherited from his grandfather, this belief that postwar institutions, the constitution that the U S introduced during the occupation years because of those institutions, Japan had been constrained from defending itself, from playing a fully active role in the world as a great power from being a regional leader from being a global leader on a number of different issues.

4 (8m 4s):
And some of it was institutional that he felt that the Japanese government kind of pre 1993 power was too diffuse. You didn't have a strong executive. If you didn't have a prime minister who could say, this is what I'm going to do, and then actually be able to follow through on it. Power was there, there were way too many veto players. So part of it was just centralizing power, concentrating power in the hands of the prime minister. Some of it was just building new institutions that would enable the prime minister to make a foreign security policy has never before. And some of it was strengthening Japan's economy and finding a new growth model and, and finding a way out of long-term economic stagnation by 2012, he had fixed that he had a solid group of economic policy advisers and had a clearer sense that there was no way to talk about a stronger Japan.

4 (8m 52s):
Japan is a great power again, you know, in the first rank of if Japan hadn't fixed its economic problems. So that was sort of the complete vision.

1 (9m 1s):
Was that vision controversial in Japan,

4 (9m 3s):
There were certainly parts of it. You know, for many Japanese, they look at what are they called the post-war regime, not as something to be embarrassed about or something shameful or something that prevented Japan from realizing some better version of itself. I mean, for a lot of, a lot of Japanese, particularly those who came of age, you know, during the war and immediately afterwards, they saw the institutions, the postwar institutions as something that created a prosperous, peaceful galitary in society. And they saw them as something genuinely good and worth defending. They saw the constitution that yes may have been introduced by U S occupation authorities, but even so, I mean, if it became something Japanese people became attached to as something that made Japan unique that made Japan special in the world, you know, that we have article nine, you know, we have decided that, you know, war is not, you know, as the, the text of the, of the constitution says that war will not be an instrument of national policy, that this was something that sets a pan apart and was worth defending.

4 (10m 1s):
And so it was very controversial. I mean, pushing you, you saying that these institutions were outmoded or they were shameful, or they were something that prevented Japan from being its best self. That was not something that a lot of people agreed with,

1 (10m 16s):
But now that he's dead, this, this dream, this vision of his is the closest it's ever been to being realized in, in modern Japanese history.

4 (10m 27s):
Well, in many respects, it has been realized You really did have performs. That really changed how the Japanese government worked. I mean, you now have a much stronger prime minister's office, a stronger cabinet, the national security reforms maybe are a little more controversial, but those two of the changes that he introduced are, and that other prime ministers in the last couple of decades have introduced are also here to stay. I mean, you know, there, there's an acceptance that even if just to defend Japan, the military needs to be more capable. There just doesn't seem to be a lot of controversy around that. There might be more controversy.

4 (11m 7s):
You know, if there were questions about Japan sending troops overseas to fight in wars overseas, but that seems less of an issue now. And it's much more about given the threats in its immediate vicinity. What does your hand have to do to defend itself? And also, how does it work more closely with the United States, Australia and other countries to meet the security challenges in east Asia,

1 (11m 30s):
More with Tobias in a minute on today, explained,

13 (11m 49s):
And I'm Alex Heath, we're hosting land of the giants, a podcast about the biggest tech companies of our time. This season Metta, formerly known as Facebook. It's a company in a particularly controversial and vulnerable moment. Mark Zuckerberg is placing a multi-billion dollar bet towards an imagined metaverse future. Meanwhile, the rest of us are still grappling with what he's already built

14 (12m 12s):
This season. We're going to talk to the executive steering Meta's biggest decisions. And you'll hear from some of Meta's sharpest critics, it's former employees

13 (12m 22s):
We'll explore wise. Zuckerberg is taking the company in a bold direction and how Facebook's past will inform its future

14 (12m 29s):
Land of the giants. The Facebook Mehta disruption from Recode, the verge and the Vox media podcast network. This season is sponsored by Klayvio

13 (12m 38s):
Subscribe for free wherever you listen and get our first episode on Wednesday, July 13th,

Coda (12m 47s):
Support for the show today comes from Coda. And I'm pretty sure we're not talking about this year's winner for best picture at the academy awards. We're talking about a company that wants to help you work from home a little better, because we know that you love working from home. You love working, you know, while you put your toenails, cause no one knows and you love walking your dog while you're in that meeting or whatever it is. Anyway, Coda things, that's all great, but they could maybe refine the process a little bit better. They got a roadmap for your products. They got remote onboarding, they got gold tracking. They got note taking Coda wants to help make your work more workable while you're doing it remotely with Coda, you can solve just about anything they say. And right now you can get started having your team all working together on the same page for free head over to coda.io/explained that C O D a.io to get started for free coda.io/explain

13 (14m 10s):
Today explained back with Tobias Harris. We've been talking about how Shinzo Abe wanted nothing more than to append Japan's post-war structure to bias is going to remind us how that structure was put in place.

4 (14m 24s):
So Japan is defeated in 1945.

15 (14m 28s):
The total casualties were approximately 194,000 accurate figures are unknown and difficult to obtain because of the,

4 (14m 37s):
And the United States military arrives and establishes a occupation, but by Douglas MacArthur,

17 (14m 44s):
And I should pray that peace be now or start the world. I'm not, God will preserve it. Always

4 (14m 54s):
Working under MacArthur. We're a number of young Americans. Most of them not specialists and Japan who really set about undertaking a pretty sweeping changes to how Japan, government and society function

18 (15m 10s):
As members of America's historic seventh regiment of the first cavalry division, enter Tokyo with the precision of a well-oiled machine. The occupation rolls into the Sydney,

4 (15m 22s):
No starting with the constitution and really strengthening Japanese democracy, breaking up some of the industrial combinations that Americans believe contributed to the war, disarming the country, demilitarization and democratization where the watch words at that time and what we're, it gets complicated. And I think, and you know, in many ways this is really the root of, and if the long-term political conflict that ABI, when he enters politics, really what is determined to resolve in his side's favor is so for the first couple of years of the occupation, you have these liberalizing reforms introduced actually by, you know, veterans of the new deal in the United States.

4 (16m 7s):
But then as the cold war really begins to heat up, so to speak, the United States government starts looking at the world and seeing well in Japan that is fully disarmed de-industrialized that is essentially taken out of international politics. If we don't fix its economy, the communists are going to take advantage of that.

10 (16m 28s):
The new agreement is a key factor in the defense of the forest against the growing might've read China.

4 (16m 34s):
And so the Truman administration recognized that actually we're better off having Japan as an ally and rebuilding Japan as an ally. And what that meant in practice was that the liberalizing reform basically stopped some of the conservative politicians, businessmen, wartime leaders, who were basically prisoned and, and being tried as war criminals, ended up being released and making their way back into politics. And so you ended up this incomplete transformation. And as a result of that, you have this fundamental conflict about what is post-war Japan, you know, is it this democratized liberalizing place, or is it this place dominated by these old guard conservatives, you know, who would prefer, you know, and aligned to the United States, but also would want Japan to resume the business of being a great power as soon as possible.

4 (17m 26s):
And you end up with this with these situations where you do have restraints, you know, th you know, the constitution goes unchanged, but by 1954, Japan has self-defense forces. And of course it's hosting large numbers of us forces,

19 (17m 38s):
A very modern military force, some of the most advanced hardware in the world, this is Japan self-defense force strictly limited in how and where it can operate despite the fees, technically civilian,

4 (17m 52s):
This reality is controversial among the left controversial, among some elements of the right, but then you have this large mainstream consensus that this is okay, that Japan not being a full fledged green power. And that in the meantime, Japan would focus on economic growth reconstruction recovery. And that was the status quo for basically the duration of the cold war.

1 (18m 14s):
What do Japan's defense capabilities look like from, from the 1950s to present day?

4 (18m 21s):
The best term used to describe Japan during this period, this anti militarist,

20 (18m 27s):
Because of the Japanese constitution, that we are not allowed to participate in peace enforcement activities.

4 (18m 33s):
It has armed forces, but they are not terribly sophisticated. They have equipment, you know, of course, lots of it bought from the United States, but you know, the different surfaces are disjointed. They're just sort of scattered across the archipelago. There is a strong, strong emphasis on civilian control. And what that means in practice is that there's essentially this very thick layer of civilian bureaucracy separating politicians from the military. So the military almost has very little interaction with political leadership. You know, you don't, you would, you really would not even think of the prime minister as commander in chief in the sense that we would think of a U S president as commander in chief, or even the Japanese prime minister.

4 (19m 16s):
Now, in some ways as commander and chief of the self-defense forces you had, we just had booze around the military self-defense forces personnel when they were off base would not wear the uniform because people would yell at them and spit at them. And the term that was popular was calling them tax the

1 (19m 32s):
Wow.

4 (19m 38s):
I mean, there, there was a really thorough brute Volusion of the idea of military power. And so, you know, I think there was, you know, an acceptance of the fact that, okay, self-defense forces exists, but people didn't like it.

1 (19m 51s):
And how has that changed in recent years

4 (19m 54s):
Over the last 30 years? Certainly since I've entered enter politics in the early nineties, I mean, you know, a lot of those taboos have eroded and some of it is, you know, because the public has come to appreciate the self-defense forces. For other reasons, the self-defense forces are really capable at disaster relief and recovery. I mean, not surprisingly given Japan propensity for earthquakes. And so they've, you know, they've been present in some of the big disasters last few decades, and I think that really has helped enhance their reputation, but there's also, I think, a realism among the Japanese public that maybe even during the cold war, it was not, there were Japanese have looked at north Korea's missiles and nuclear arsenal, and, you know, are cognizant of the threat that, that poses, you know, they've of course more recently watched the rise of China and watch China's military power and are very aware of that.

4 (20m 54s):
And I think the last, maybe other part of it is generational change. You know, I think for Japanese who grew up during the war grew up immediately after the war, you know, it's a very visceral feeling about what war brings to a country and not wanting to see that again,

21 (21m 12s):
They will gimbal on it.

22 (21m 14s):
Of course, Japan should have a military run than a self-defense force. They should be able to fight with full capacity to defend us and be as strong as armies in other nations.

4 (21m 24s):
Younger Japanese do not have that. This rule discussed the idea of military power at the idea that, you know, Japan should have the capabilities of defending itself from some neighborhood and that's a big change. And I think there's every sign that that can continue to be a permissive condition in the future for efforts to expand Japan's role defending itself. And also just in regional security more broadly,

1 (21m 51s):
How is Japanese re militarization viewed outside Japan in the region?

4 (21m 58s):
It depends on where you, where you look in the region. You know, I think in, you know, I think in Southeast Asia, you know, Japan has been a partner for a number of countries that have territorial disputes with China and the south China sea has been quietly engaged in building, you know, providing them with equipment, particularly with coast guard equipment. So, you know, generally benignly and in fact, welcome, you know, and, and the fact that you're now seeing maritime self-defense forces, warships Mo you know, passing through the south China sea more, I think it's welcomed. I think certainly Taiwan would welcome a more capable of Japan that was more explicitly committed to come to.

4 (22m 41s):
Taiwan's a, you know, of course then you get to Northeast Asia and, and the picture gets a lot cloudier. We have south Koreans there've been polls in recent years that show that south Koreans view Japan as one of the major military threats that South Korea faces China, you know, of course, is going to look at pages to Japan, defense policy changes to the equipment it's acquiring, and we'll, we'll accuse your pan of arms racing, but really what's shocking, of course is how long it's taken Japan really to enter the arms race that's already going on in the region.

1 (23m 13s):
So it's clearly a question of when and not if so when this dream of Shinzo, ah, you know, to fully militarize Japan is realized, well, that ended up being his most prominent legacy.

4 (23m 32s):
I think you can make that argument, but even bigger than that, I mean, I think just given how much his efforts changed, how the Japanese government works and that you have a Japanese government that is just able to respond to crises, conduct foreign policy basically formulate a national security policy in a much more coherent way, and then actually execute it that, that ultimately this can be even bigger than, you know, you have, you know, a Japanese government that looks out at the world in a more strategic way than it used to is determined to play a leadership role in ways that it could not in the past that ultimately I think is going to be, you know, the legacy and the fact that, you know, I'll be after his death received as many tributes from world leaders as he did, you know, and president Biden, ordering flags flown at half-mast, you know, to honor abbaye, you know, that's an extraordinary tribute to the ways in which he changed how Japan acts in the world,

1 (24m 47s):
Tobias Harris, he's a senior fellow for Asia at the center for American progress. And he's the author of the iconic class Shinzo bay and the new Japan,

4 (24m 56s):
Which is the only English language biography of the late prime minister.

1 (25m 1s):
Our program today was produced by Halima Shaw edited by Matthew Collette fact-checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Paul mousey. The rest of the today explained team includes my cohost Noel king Abishai artsy, Heidi, Milwaukee, D miles, Bryan, Victoria, Chamberlain, and a theme, the dream Shapiro. We had extra help this week from John errands. Our audio fellow is Tori Domingas. Our supervising producer is Amina <inaudible>. VP of audio is Liz Kelly Nelson. We used music by Breakmaster cylinder and no I'm Hassenfeld we're on the radio in partnership with w N Y C today explained as part of the box media podcast network.