1 (8s):
Hello friends, I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today explained just a warning that if you're listening with people over the age of 18 today's episode features a political ad from President Donald Trump's re-election campaign. And this ad we're going to play is just teeming with lies

3 (26s):
Joe Biden promised Ukraine a billion dollars if they fired the prosecutor in Investigating his sons

1 (31s):
company shawnigan just a reminder. There is no evidence that ever happened. Now, here's the rest of the add

3 (39s):
the prosecutors not fired. You're not getting the money. Oh son of a bitch fired, but when President Trump asks Ukraine to investigate corruption the Democrats want to impeach him and their media lap dogs fall in line. They lost the election now they want to steal this one. Don't let them. I'm Donald Trump and I approve this

1 (1m 2s):
message. Okay question should Facebook run an ad like this one. It knows contains just garbage information information that might change the way people vote in the past. Facebook has said no

2 (1m 17s):
so Facebook's advertising policies have said you're not allowed to put misinformation in your ad if you're trying to say something deceptive Facebook can and has removed that kind of ad from its.

1 (1m 30s):
Systems, but recently Facebook actually changed its mind.

2 (1m 34s):
Yeah, so a journalist named Judd legum took the bite and add to Facebook and said hey Trump is lying about this situation. Why have you allowed it given that your policy bans misinformation and Facebook said well actually our policy now says that we are not going to fact check the contents of political ads. We're just going to essentially let the people decide

1 (1m 60s):
so Is Facebook saying now that it's essentially? Okay for politicians to lie in ads that it runs on its site. Is that what's going on here?

2 (2m 7s):
Yes, although they're not phrasing it that way what they've essentially said is if you look at the big broadcast networks, they do not fact-check political speech. They simply allow politicians to say essentially whatever they want to and Facebook wants to take a similar approach the context for that. That is that after the 2016 election one of the major concerns that people had about Facebook now that it is so big and so powerful is that decisions that it made around speech could have an outsized effect on the outcome of an election. So Facebook has been under a lot of pressure to not influence elections.

2 (2m 50s):
And I think their solution has been to say well we're just going to stay out of the debate over what is true and false when it comes to politics and we will let Actually the news media and the citizens of the Democracy sort of work together to sort out fact from fiction. What would it

1 (3m 11s):
look like if we trusted Facebook to police political

2 (3m 15s):
lies think about some really hot button issue like say abortion something where people have incredibly strong feelings where there are disagreements about when can life be said to begin and then imagine some politician and a very closely watched national race takes out an ad where they say something about abortion in which there is not

1 (3m 40s):
Total

2 (3m 40s):
Clarity on whether it's true or false. And so then Facebook has to send this add to a fact Checker. The fact Checker has to make a determination about whether it's true or false, even if there is some nuance and then Facebook has to decide whether they're going to keep it up or take it out. So then they make that decision and one group has one and the losing group is going to make a great deal of hey about how Facebook is biased against them and all of a sudden Facebook's self-image as a place that is designed to be for everyone to Talk with each other is under assault because now it has been painted as a partisan Outlet, right and you could just imagine how in all the elections to come there are going to be those kinds of ads and those kinds of controversies and if Facebook Works to maintain that old policy it would just face an unending series of headaches over them.

1 (4m 30s):
Is there sort of a double standard here from what people expect from Facebook versus traditional broadcast media

2 (4m 36s):
TV radio there is a distinction between broadcast and cable TV just to name one. Some cable networks actually do fact-check political ads before they decide to run them. And if somebody is saying something that is erroneous, they just won't run it CNN for example took down the bite and add that has been at the center of this controversy Fox News to mirrored. So So different cable networks make different decisions broadcast networks generally do not fact-check. So for different kinds of media Outlets, we apply different standards and Facebook is in the middle of figuring out. You know, what it wants to be in that

1 (5m 14s):
regard. What did you think when you first heard about this policy change from Facebook

2 (5m 19s):
initially? I thought Facebook had the policy, right? You know, my rationale was look lying has a long and proud tradition in American politics. Expo we also have this really robust system of checking it. We have a media that spends a lot of time and energy everyday fact-checking political speech and then reporting what it finds and I think there is something healthy about a world in which politicians are free to lie. If only because it then reveals that the politicians are liars that's good information to know heading into an election. And if you're worried that Facebook is too big and too powerful, which I am then having them sort of put their thumb on the scales. As a political speech it makes me uncomfortable and I heard from a lot of people that they felt like I had gotten it

1 (6m 5s):
wrong, right you defended this policy change in your newsletter the interface. How did your readers respond

2 (6m 12s):
just to give you some flavor of the response that I got one person wrote. I am canceling this crap feces book Fanboy newsletter you were obviously willfully ignorant to who and what you write about where feces book is concerned. You're giddy little exclamations exhorting feces book. Transparently

1 (6m 29s):
false.

2 (6m 32s):
He was very excited that he'd come up with feces Bush. He was definitely going to use it three times in a threesome season.

1 (6m 41s):
Did you get anything more constructive than

2 (6m 42s):
that? I've gotten to really constructive pieces of feedback from people. One thing that people seem comfortable with is they would be okay with Facebook allowing political ads if they didn't allow, Ting and the thought there is it'll be harder to go after I don't know like really vulnerable or low information voters with some sort of obvious lie. If you have to address the entire nation at once and then the other piece of feedback that I've gotten this very popular is Facebook just shouldn't accept any political ads whatsoever Pinterest. Does that Tick Tock does that you can argue whether that is a truly neutral position and whether it might not just help to preserve the status quo, but among people who want to see a difference.

2 (7m 29s):
Tuition that we have now, those are two of the most popular ideas

1 (7m 32s):
the last time we spoke you told us about how Mark Zuckerberg and Elizabeth Warren had been butting heads lately calling each other out in meetings and online because she wants to break the company up. I imagine she has some thoughts on this policy change Facebook.

2 (7m 46s):
This has been catnip for Elizabeth Warren, right? She has been tweeting about it. She has launched a fundraising campaign around it and the cleverest thing that she did what she She called Facebook's Bluff. She made an ad with a lie in it in which she posted a picture of Zuckerberg meeting Trump and

1 (8m 6s):
said

2 (8m 8s):
breaking news Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook. Just endorsed Donald Trump for re-election. You're probably shocked and you might be thinking how could this possibly be true? Well, it's not sorry it continues. But what Zuckerberg has done is given Donald Trump free rein to lie on his platform and then to pay Facebook gobs of money to push out their lives to American voters. If Trump tries to line a TV ad most networks or refused to air it but Facebook just caches Trump's text Facebook already helped elect Donald Trump ones. Now, they're deliberately allowing a candidate to intentionally lie to the American people. It's time to hold Mark Zuckerberg accountable. Add your name, if you

1 (8m 44s):
agree was Elizabeth Warren right will most TV networks refused to run the ad that Facebook was allowing here.

2 (8m 52s):
So I'm not an election like expert but my understanding is that big broadcast networks like a ABC CBS NBC generally speaking do not fact-checked these kinds of ads and that was basically Facebook's point when they tweeted back at her looks like broadcast stations across the country have aired this ad nearly a thousand times as required by law FCC doesn't want broadcast companies censoring candidates speech. We agree. It's better to let voters not companies decide and then they added the FCC and candidate use which I don't know why they without those hashtags, but they did that.

2 (9m 34s):
Wow

1 (9m 35s):
did Elizabeth Warren have anything to say back to that? Tweet?

2 (9m 38s):
Oh, yeah. I mean she is. Yeah. Let me see if I can find her response here because it was

3 (9m 44s):
good

2 (9m 47s):
quote. You're making my point here. It's up to you whether you take money to promote lies. You can be in the disinformation for-profit business, or you can hold yourself to some standards. In fact those standards were in your policy. Why the change?

1 (10m 1s):
Is that the question everyone's asking here why this change right now?

2 (10m 5s):
It's the perfect framing of the question for her. She is making this a moral issue. Whereas I think Facebook wanted to make it a kind of election law issue and she is trying to take that move away from them by saying no. No, we are going to talk about what you're doing is ethically correct and you know, that's not an issue that the He can speak to you because ultimately it's one person making that decision and it's Mark Zuckerberg. And I think he is very reticent to Wade in because he is already somewhat unwillingly in the middle of a big Feud with the potential future president of the United States.

1 (10m 44s):
So after all the back-and-forth, do you Casey still think it was the right policy change for Facebook?

2 (10m 52s):
I definitely think about it differently than I did the day that the policy was announced. I still think think there is a good case for Facebook trying to stay out of Elections. I think there's a good case for a democracy citizens to take the primary responsibility for sorting fact from fiction with the help of a free press and not Outsource that responsibility to a for-profit corporation where I think I've changed though is that I now believe that if Facebook allows this policy to continue through the election. It is likely that it will still play a huge role in the outcome of that election.

2 (11m 35s):
Facebook has historically spread really inflammatory speech. And so if you're giving politicians license to lie, it's quite possible that those lies are going to spread very far and very fast. And in fact this bite in Ukraine add that's at the center of the controversy has already been seen five million times, even though it's a lie. So this is not a theoretical fear, right? These lies can spread very far. Far and so this policy of neutrality is probably going to still wind up having a big effect on the

1 (12m 8s):
election and that's not even taking into account. Right the prophet Facebook makes from these sorts of dubious

2 (12m 15s):
ads and this is just where I think it gets very dangerous for them because now every time a politician tells a lie people in the media and their users are going to turn around and say not only are you making the world Dumber? Spreading misinformation, but you're making a profit from it because of all the blowback that's going to generate every time another one of these ads goes viral. I think it's just going to create an endless series of PR headaches for the company and it's the sort of PR headaches that the company hates it wants to avoid. So while I understand where their company was coming from and I appreciate that there were trying not to put the thumb on their scale. I think with this policy the more that I thought about it, I think they're putting their thumb on the scale and Anyway, and I think that ultimately it's not tenable and they're going to have to change it.

2 (13m 3s):
It reminds me of that

1 (13m 4s):
question in the internal Facebook QA that you leaked that we featured a few weeks ago on the show where someone was asking like, what are we supposed to tell our friends who don't like Facebook anymore? All of this policy change about political speech doesn't seem like it's going to

2 (13m 20s):
help exactly and that's why I think Facebook may eventually change this policy soon if it cannot attract and recruit. Retain the best employees then the company doesn't do as well and all sorts of bad things start to happen. So you can just imagine being a software engineer in the Bay Area and you go get drinks with your friends this weekend. And your friend says hey, I heard you guys are letting politicians lie and you're taking money for it. Like what's the deal with that? If Facebook can't give a good answer to its employees. I suspect we might see a lot of employees get very frustrated by that and so that's Ultimately, the point of Leverage that I think will cause this policy to

1 (14m 2s):
change. It just feels like at best Facebook is sort of in the middle of some kind of identity crisis and maybe at worst. It's just like trial by fire over there which is kind of wild to think about because these are very smart people who are very well paid and our elections. Hang in the balance. I mean, what are we supposed to take away from all of

2 (14m 23s):
this? I mean, what are the things I take away is that too much power has been constant. It into the hands of too few giant technology companies another takeaway that I have is that questions about what belongs on the internet and what has to come down are some of the trickiest problems that we Face there are always trade-offs involved. There is not usually a super clear answer and frankly. I think it's the sort of thing that we should be having a big National discussion about For Better or For Worse a great deal of our political speech now does take place on a handful of large social platforms?

2 (15m 6s):
And I think every American should have an informed view about essentially what do you think should be the Rules of Engagement here? What should be allowed? What shouldn't be allowed in so many ways. We are having a reckoning over free speech in the Modern Age and this story is right at the heart of

3 (15m 25s):
it. Facebook Newton, thank you so much for making time for us today. Appreciate it. My pleasure. Thank you Shawn. Casey Newton is the author of so much more than a feces Buck Fanboy newsletter. He is the author of the interface newsletter. You can find it over the Verge where Casey reports on

1 (15m 52s):
technology and democracy this afternoon just a few hours ago Mark Zuckerberg spoke at Georgetown

3 (15m 59s):
University about free speech on Facebook. We don't fact-check political ads and we don't do this to help politicians, but because we think people should be able to see for Selves what politicians are saying he acknowledged how

1 (16m 13s):
unpopular this new policy of allowing lies in political ads might be and he said Facebook has

3 (16m 19s):
considered banning all

1 (16m 21s):
political ads from the site,

3 (16m 24s):
but political ads can be an important part of voice, especially for local candidates and up-and-coming Challengers and advocacy groups in the media might not otherwise cover so that way they can get their voice into the debate. Banning political ads favors incumbents and whoever the media chooses to cover but for now Facebook is sticking with

1 (16m 48s):
its decision to allow

3 (16m 50s):
lies in political ads, even if we wanted to ban political ads, it's not even clear where you draw the line are there are many more ads about issues when there are directly about elections. We ban ads about health care or immigration or women's empowerment and If you're not going to ban those does it really make sense to give everyone else to voice in political debates except for the candidates themselves. So they're going to be issues. Anyway, you cut this and I believe that when it's not absolutely clear what to do that. We should err on the side of Greater expression.

3 (17m 31s):
It's going to be one hell of an election folks. We're here for you. This is today explained.