0 (0s):
America. America has a problem. It's a drug problem. It's mostly an opioid problem.

2 (8s):
The situation right now with the drug supply in America is that fentanyl is showing up in just about everything you can imagine. The

0 (18s):
Opioid problem is so bad. Users might be taking them when they're trying to take other drugs.

2 (23s):
And so people are overdosing of fentanyl, who are taking meth, who are taking cocaine, who are taking pills, who are just out for a party night on the weekend. And

0 (35s):
If you don't know you're taking opioids, it gets a lot easier to overdose. Over

3 (38s):
100,000 people have died from drug overdoses in the past 12 months. The vast majority from opiates, including synthetic drugs like fentanyl.

0 (49s):
But there is a quick and easy drug that can reverse an opioid overdose. It's about to be available over the counter. It's ahead on today. Explained

1 (1m 0s):
This episode is brought to you by Betterment. Are you waiting for the perfect moment to invest your money? Turns out that perfect moment might not exist. Even experts agree that it's tough to time the market. Betterment gives you the tools you need to make an informed investing plan so that whether markets are up or down, you have a plan no matter what. Sign up and start investing in just a few minutes@betterman.com. That's B E T T E R M E N t.com. You'll thank you. Later. Investing involves risk of loss performance, not guaranteed.

5 (1m 39s):
The H B O drama succession is in its fourth and final season. And for diehard fans, some of the characters have achieved pop star status

6 (1m 49s):
That just feels like, so like, you know, you're that bitch for you. Cause of that conversation like that. Like he's it. I just kind of like,

5 (1m 58s):
Did you just compare Logan Roy to Beyonce?

6 (2m 1s):
Well, I mean, why not?

5 (2m 5s):
Oh, let's keep this going. We talk succession this week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast.

2 (2m 23s):
I'm Julie Weau. I'm a health and medicine reporter at the Wall Street Journal.

0 (2m 27s):
Tell us, Julie, what is up with Narcan?

2 (2m 32s):
So last week the FDA approved this medication that people use to reverse an overdose for over-the-counter use, which means that pretty soon you can walk into a retail pharmacy and just pick up this medication along with like your vitamins and Tylenol and any other number of things you might grab at the pharmacy.

0 (2m 55s):
And that's a big deal.

2 (2m 56s):
It's a big deal. It's something that people have been advocating for for years. We have a pretty serious opioid crisis out there.

7 (3m 4s):
New numbers out today from the C D C show how drug overdoses have surged. During the pandemic, more than 107,000 Americans died of drug overdoses in 2021. That's the highest annual death toll ever recorded. And a 15% increase from the year before deaths involving fentanyl, meth, and cocaine rose sharply.

2 (3m 26s):
So they were asking that this medication, which is in some ways kind of a miracle drug. I mean, it literally just takes someone who is not breathing, who is not responsive and pulls them out of that state.

8 (3m 40s):
You can see it through police body cams. This woman in the back of a Salt Lake City PD squad car isn't breathing. The officer sprays naloxone up her nose with a device called Narcan. Stay with me, watch it. Take effect.

9 (3m 56s):
There you go. There you go. There

2 (3m 59s):
You go. And so we have got approval for that for the first time ever in decades of the opioid crisis.

0 (4m 8s):
And people have been asking for it for years. Why did this just get approved, you know, a few days ago?

2 (4m 14s):
Well, that's a great question. And the answer might not be what you would expect. The FDA actually kept pushing and pushing and pushing the pharmaceutical companies to go ahead and apply for these drugs to be over the counter. And nobody was showing up for years. And so little by little the FDA made it almost impossible for them not to apply. For example, a couple years ago they said, here, here's what the packaging could look like if you want to apply. And actually made a mock-up of a potential over-the-counter version of Narcan. They don't do that kind of thing that often.

2 (4m 55s):
They also then came out with a statement that essentially said, if we see scientific evidence that there's no reason that this drug shouldn't be over the counter, anyone who continues to sell it as a prescription only drug will be doing something against the law. Hmm. And that little by little pushed the pharmaceutical companies to start the process of applying for these medications to go over the counter.

0 (5m 24s):
So in all this time where people have been advocating to make it easier to get Narcan and the sort of move to make it easier has been punted down the road. Has it been really hard to get this drug? Well,

2 (5m 38s):
What's interesting is originally right, I mean this is a prescription only medication. And so it would be the kind of thing that you'd have to go to a doctor, the doctor would have to give you a prescription, then you go to your pharmacy, you get it filled, et cetera. Because there was no, over-the-counter version of this states advocacy groups, anyone you can think of that works with drug dealers, health advocates figured out all these workarounds and at the state level made it possible to get this drug a little bit easier. So for instance, if you walk into your pharmacy right now and you don't have a prescription, you ask for it, they'll give you this medication. And the reason is they have this, what they call statewide standing orders.

10 (6m 17s):
Think of this as a prescription for everyone in the state, whether it's a police department, a fire department, or even an individual to go and obtain this drug so that they can start saving

2 (6m 27s):
Lives. Also, you have, insurers will pay for it. They've tried so many ways to make this medication accessible and work around the fact that we didn't have an over-the-counter version of

0 (6m 37s):
It. Interesting. Okay. So though this is a major change and it's a big deal, essentially a bunch of states had figured out a way to get this to people. Even without this change.

2 (6m 47s):
They figured out ways. In fact, in some states, you know, depending how liberal they've been with those standing orders, they've got it in free vending machines. What,

0 (6m 56s):
Once

11 (6m 57s):
You gain, gain access to a locker, it pops open, you reach inside and you'll find a bag with two doses of Narcan gloves, a face shield, and a visual aid on how to administer the life-saving doses.

2 (7m 9s):
You can go into the city center somewhere and you'll see, you know, you punch in a code and out comes your little kit with naloxone in it.

0 (7m 19s):
Okay. So depending where you live, it's, it's difficult to, extremely easy to get Narcan right

2 (7m 25s):
Now. That's right. Part of the problem has been though that that's not the same everywhere. Right? Because ultimately you still have, for the most part, these pharmacists are like the gatekeeper Hmm. For whether or not you get this prescriptions. Hmm. And so there are some people who will not sell it to you on like ethical grounds essentially. There's also the fact that m, a lot of the sort of free Narcan that's out there is in the hands of big harm reduction groups that work with drug users. So if you're sort of a recreational drug user or you just wanna have this stuff on hand, you probably aren't really, that you're not in the know about who those groups are and where to go to get it. It might be, you know, something that ends up being on your to-do list, you know, for three years and it doesn't happen.

2 (8m 9s):
Versus, oh, I'm in here and I'm buying my shampoo. That's right. I'm gonna grab my Narcan.

0 (8m 14s):
So maybe this change then to make Narcan over the counter is just making it more consistent across the country. Is that what we're gonna see?

2 (8m 24s):
Yes, that's right. Also, I think it's a very important symbolic move for the country. Essentially the, the country is policy wise, trying to move away from this idea that the only way to deal with drug use is abstinence. That you know, we need to eradicate drug use in America versus that there are really obvious tools that we can use that help reduce the harm to the people who are using drugs. Particularly in this case, death.

2 (9m 4s):
It's in some ways, you know, the lowest hanging fruit, right? Can we keep people alive? Does that mean that they're gonna stop using drugs? Not necessarily. Does it keep them alive so that they can go to treatment if they want to? It does. So that's, that's a little bit where we're starting right now in terms of thinking in this country about reducing harm to drug users.

0 (9m 32s):
So are there any drawbacks to making this drug easier to get?

2 (9m 37s):
So I would say the, the people who are really not in favor of just widespread adoption of Narcan are folks who think that this is enabling drug use. There are many drug users who are overdosing multiple times a week. It's

12 (9m 53s):
50 times more powerful than heroin and 100 times more powerful than morphine.

2 (9m 58s):
I've talked to drug users who are overdosing multiple times a day.

13 (10m 2s):
It is the deadliest drug threat our country has ever faced

2 (10m 6s):
Because fentanyl is so unpredictable and our supply and is so powerful.

12 (10m 10s):
Drug dealers found that mixing a little bit of illicit fentanyl into heroin could make their product much more potent. The white powder could be pressed into counterfeit pain pills that look like Vicodin or Xanax. The white powder is measured in milligrams and it only takes a few grains for someone to overdose.

2 (10m 26s):
And so the folks who you know are against this saturating the entire market are saying, well, like if you overdose once you know, which doesn't always kill you and it's horrific and you end up in the hospital, maybe that would be your path to drug treatment and you wouldn't do drugs anymore. Right? That was the thinking on it. And of course on the other side people say, well also there's a very strong chance you'll just die. So it's a difficult conversation that a lot of public health officials are having about how do we make sure that people aren't dying, but at the same time, like, what's the pathway here to treatment?

0 (11m 1s):
So right, greater availability could encourage people to use opioids, fentanyl, whatever. But we're currently in a situation where people are just using them anyway without as easy access to Narcan.

2 (11m 16s):
It's sort of like the helmet effect argument. I don't know if you've

0 (11m 20s):
Heard of this. Yeah, yeah,

2 (11m 20s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's this idea that like people end up getting injured because they, they have this idea that they have this safety lover of the helmet or the padding and end up like going harder and more hardcore. Right? So there's this idea with drugs.

0 (11m 37s):
It sounds like the issue we're talking about broadly here is just the stigma associated with drug use, especially opioid use, which is way scarier than say pot use where there's already stigma. Should I say pot people laughing when I say pot, I like,

2 (11m 52s):
I dunno why I say pot. I know what are, what are the kids calling it these days? I don't know. There's pot, weed, marijuana, what have you, Delta eight.

4 (12m 1s):
How do you do fellow kids?

2 (12m 2s):
What?

0 (12m 3s):
So what are we to do? Address the issue and provide these kinds of drugs that can revive people and save lives or make them hard to get so that people might be in theory more careful. But it doesn't necessarily seem that way when we have over a hundred thousand overdose deaths a year.

2 (12m 20s):
I think one of the things that's changing the conversation a little bit right now, which is why you're seeing more conversations that allow more Narcan or fentanyl test strips, et cetera, is that we came out of the pandemic and faced a totally new drug market.

15 (12m 48s):
If it weren't for the Covid pandemic, this would be the epidemic that Americans are talking about. This is now killing more than a hundred thousand people a year

2 (12m 58s):
In that drug market. Fentanyl is in a lot more things than heroin. Dope. What you're expecting, it's showing up in cocaine. It's showing up in these fake pills that look so good. They look better than the real pills. So people are at parties who are not hardened, you know, heroin users and are encountering fentanyl. These are people who maybe don't need drug treatment because they might do like a little coke every, you know, six months or something like that. And so I think that's changed things because we're, people are turning up dead around the country who grabbed a Xanax from a friend at a party.

2 (13m 38s):
It feels a little too random to people right now, I think. And that is changing the conversation.

15 (13m 44s):
And you know, one thing that I, I always like to point out is that unlike the Covid pandemic that largely hit older Americans, this crisis has really hitting young people, which has a devastating impact on communities, on economies, and, and there's also no end in sight. Unlike Covid, which we're slowly putting behind us, this seems to just keep getting worse.

2 (14m 4s):
Fentanyl users are pretty accustomed to fentanyl. They're actually very smart about how to use it. They have learned, you know, how to stay safer if you are completely ignorant about opioids and never use them and it just shows up. That's a different story. That's scary.

16 (14m 42s):
This episode is brought to you by Circle. Digital Currency is helping to form the base layer for new global commerce infrastructure and stable coins like U S T C issued by Circle Help to bring faster payments at internet scale for merchants at the point of sale to corporations that want to pay global suppliers and even employees. It's all done more efficiently. Visit circle.com/spotify to learn more.

17 (15m 7s):
Tackle your New Year's evolutions with vitamins and supplements from Ollie. Because this year pressure filled resolutions are out and evolutions are in. Sure, lofty goals are great, but little steps count too. One good night's sleep, one feel good choice. BITESIZE goals lead to big wins O supplements for your New Year's evolution. Find your new wellness go-tos at o.com. Ali, these statements are not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.

18 (15m 40s):
Today is gonna

0 (15m 41s):
Be explained.

18 (15m 43s):
See you

0 (15m 45s):
Julie. I think it's high time. I ask you, what is Narcan?

2 (15m 51s):
So Narcan is actually a brand name for a drug whose scientific name is Naloxone. Now what this drug does is actually pretty simple. If you have opioids in your system, they like to sit on the opioid receptor. Hmm. Aptly named, that's what it's called. Yes. It's a particular opioid receptor that the opioid will just sit on and kind of hang out.

19 (16m 22s):
These receptors are found on cells in your brain, spinal cord and other areas of your body. Opioids act on these receptors to make you feel less pain.

2 (16m 32s):
And what it will do is if, if you've had too much, it's going to reduce breathing, respiration, et cetera. This is how people's hearts stop right?

20 (16m 42s):
Soon. Lips and hands start to turn blue within just a couple of minutes. Without oxygen, brain damage can start to happen.

2 (16m 49s):
So Naloxone also has a very strong affinity for this same receptor. And the opioids don't just like stay on the receptor. They kind of cycle through. And it's a little bit hard to explain, but essentially the naloxone comes in and it replaces the opioid before it can get back on the receptor.

20 (17m 8s):
When Naloxone attaches itself to the opioid receptors, it counters the effect of the drug. Soon it begins to reverse the impact of the overdose.

2 (17m 17s):
And restores breathing knocks every other op, you know, the opioids just like leave your whole system. They can't get back on the receptor. Which is also why one of the not so fun parts about getting revived with Naloxone is that immediately, if you're an opioid user, you're gonna go into some pretty bad withdrawal.

20 (17m 36s):
Sometimes they can come back in a daze, often mad, scared and aggressive as they're coming down from their high.

2 (17m 43s):
But you'll be alive.

0 (17m 44s):
What does Naloxone, at least in its Narcan form look like? How does it

2 (17m 51s):
Work? Yeah, so if no one's ever seen this drug, it's actually ridiculously simple. What they did is they put naloxone inside this essentially like a nasal spray type contraption. The person is passed out, you put it up the person's nose, you hit the spray function and you've delivered the dose. That's how it works, huh? Within two to eight minutes the person will come out of it. They might be a little mad at you cuz they're gonna be in really bad withdrawal. They might not be, you know, in the most happy state, but they will have their breathing restored and be back to square one.

0 (18m 32s):
And for people who are just learning about this drug and this process, like where is this happening? Where are people using Narcan in this country right now?

2 (18m 42s):
So this is a drug that's in a lot of places and growing to more places. So it's showing up in schools, in churches with first responders, you know, police officers, EMTs, it's, it's in hospitals, it might be at your workplace and it, it's an old lady's purses. It's very small. You can fit it anywhere.

0 (19m 1s):
Old ladies in America are carrying around Narcan in their purses.

2 (19m 4s):
Well, I guess that's the hope. It depends who the old lady is, right?

21 (19m 8s):
It's been 84

2 (19m 9s):
Years. But I think it's, it's something, you know, if your, if your son, grandchild cousin, brother, if you know that there's someone who's using drugs and you just wanna have this thing around just in case. Yeah, a good place for it would be your purse for sure. I have two doses of it in my purse. Hmm. That carry all the time. I hope I never have to use them. But you know, it's pretty easy to carry around. It's also something that people should know is that the place and the people that are most likely to use this drug are actually drug users and people who are with other drug users. There's been lots of studies that have shown that, unlike opioids of the past, fentanyl, illicit fentanyl, which is what is all over the drug supply now, and is much more potent than say, you know, the pills that cause this crisis in the first place.

2 (20m 1s):
It just works so fast that in, if you really want to revive someone, you need to be like right there when it happens. And so that's a big reason for this push is that it used to be, you know, you call 9 1 1, they show up. It could be a while later and you're able to really revive someone. In this case it could happen within a few minutes and by the time 9 1 1 gets there, it could be too late. And so that's why we're seeing this e everywhere you can imagine is they're trying to saturate the United States with overdose reversal medications to hopefully unwind some of the deaths that we're seeing.

0 (20m 40s):
Hmm. Because this might soon lead to a saturation. I have to ask like, what if you're someone who doesn't need this drug but takes it? What if a kid is going through grandma's purse, finds her Narcan, seizes a little nasal spray and takes a pop?

2 (20m 55s):
That's such a great question because that was my worry is like, well I don't know. What if this person's not overdosing and I accidentally give them this drug? Right. It doesn't do anything to you if you are not on Oh good. Yeah. In fact, one of the ways that they test for approval with the F D A is they give it to people who are not on opioids and then they like test to see how much of the drug they got in their system. But the people who are in those clinical trials feel absolutely nothing like, they're like, why are you spraying this thing in my nose? Hmm. Yeah. So it's totally innocuous if you're not on opioids. It would work for anything that is an opioid. So it could be a prescription pill that's an opioid, it could be fentanyl, it could be heroin.

2 (21m 39s):
It's all the same to the brain, if that makes sense. Hmm. What it won't work on is other kinds of overdose like alcohol. There's a tranquilizer right now that's been making its way into the drug supply that people refer to as tran. Huh. It's not going to work on that. It's not gonna work on your benzos. So what health professionals recommend is, like we talked about before, it's not gonna hurt 'em. Just try it. Even if you think, you know what this isn't. They overdosed from I think something else. You never know what people have taken. They might not know what they've taken. So it's worth a try.

0 (22m 17s):
Will this decision by f d a be a difference maker do you think? We'll see overdose numbers drop.

2 (22m 23s):
I hate to say it this cuz everyone says this on every podcast, but time will tell. One of the reasons that time will tell is we're still waiting on information from retailers and insurers about pricing. Is this drug going in over the counter going to mean that it's actually more affordable? Or is it actually going to be more expensive? All told so, Hmm. Right now, I mean, I walk into the c s pharmacy and get this prescription only supposedly drug right behind the counter and give them my insurance card.

2 (23m 4s):
It costs me 10 bucks. It costs like 125 bucks to the insurer. Huh. So they're a lot of non-prescription drugs you can get your insurance to pay for, but it's up to them to tell us if they're going to pay for it. So I, you know, if I wanna go get my Flonase or something for my allergies, my insurer will actually help cover it, even though it's an over-the-counter drug. Now, you can't necessarily do that with everything, but we're waiting to find that out. At the same time, you know, the manufacturer could say, we're gonna sell this to, you know, the Walgreens and RiteAid and c v s pharmacies of the world for, you know, $4.

2 (23m 45s):
But those guys could say, well we wanna take a cut and we're gonna sell it back to the public for $45. So we're waiting to find out what the pricing is gonna look like, which we might not really know until late summer.

0 (23m 58s):
But that ultimately could have an impact on how big of a game changer this is.

2 (24m 3s):
It could have an impact on how big of a game changer it is for Narcan. One thing that people don't realize is that this is just a first drug maker who's going over the counter. There are a couple of other drug makers, one of which is a non-profit pharmaceutical company. You don't hear about that very often. Hmm. That is specifically set up just to try to create a nearly free version of over-the-counter Naloxone. So when those competitors, you know, get through the F D A process and enter the marketplace for sure, this is going to be a game changer. The pricing is gonna go down across the board and it will be, you know, something you can go grab with your bar of soap.

0 (25m 2s):
That was Julie War. Now she reports on health and medicine for the Wall Street Journal. Our show today was produced by Haddi Ma Wadi. He had help from Jolie Myers, Paul Robert Moundy, and Laura Bullard. I'm Sean Ramo. This is today Explained.