3 (5s):
It's a new year and there is new news, but we are not quite back yet team today explained is resting up before bringing you a Year's worth of wall-to-wall election coverage and other coverage and all that character. You've come to know and love we are back on Monday the 6th of January. So today you get one of our favorite episodes from last year from September 2019 an episode. I asked today explain producer. No, I'm hassenfeld. To go out in the world and make because I heard there was a chance that my recycling was being burnt. Yeah, Sean you sent me this article in the guardian from a couple months ago and it was about how Philadelphia was having problems with its recycling system and was sending its recyclables to an incinerator outside the city.

3 (47s):
Yeah, and I think it was kind of like shocking right because it flies in the face of like things that we were taught as children. What happens to your recycling? Yeah. I sort of couldn't believe that it was happening. And so I had to go check it out for myself. I To go to a local incinerator operated by the same company and so I went to an incinerator in Alexandria, Virginia right outside of

1 (1m 6s):
DC. Inside the combustion chamber. So this is where we're burning weighs about 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit. It's a good view in there. Oh. Scared. Yeah, it's just crazy to see this like huge. I mean that's a bigger fire than I've ever seen in my life. I

3 (1m 33s):
think. The u.s. Is in a recycling crisis

1 (1m 43s):
say goodbye to recycling. If you live in a city of Deltona with lower demand for recyclable

3 (1m 48s):
products and rising

1 (1m 49s):
cost of recycling the city decided to suspend its recycling program. The city of Jackson is suspending its

3 (1m 55s):
curbside recycling program until further notice in Sierra Vista concerns over contamination and cost for city leaders to do away with curbside service a slow-moving recycling. Crisis, this comes after China stopped accepting the bulk of American Recycling last year. So now we're sending this stuff to Southeast Asia. So we were doing that for a while what's happened is because there's so much plastic that we're talking about a lot of the Southeast Asian countries have now been overwhelmed and they have also put in their own plastic bands. So there's all these tons of plastics basically floating around with no clear home. The story of this recycling crisis starts at the beginning of 2018.

3 (2m 39s):
That was when China essentially stopped accepting the world's crap. The ban was disruptive about half of the plastic that we were recycling was getting exported to China Jenna Jam Beck. She's a National Geographic fellow and a professor at the University of Georgia. There were a few reasons why this came to be reason number one basically in the mid-1990s recycling was changing. In the US and we went to this single stream system. We could just put all of our recyclables into one bin and then we design facilities to separate those materials out. Those facilities didn't always do the best job. And so they needed sort of this secondary sort, which China was down to do in large part because of Reason number two.

3 (3m 24s):
The WTO was really encouraging global trade China shipped Goods to the US those ships had to make a return trip and they could go back with this recycled. stick that then could be imported into China, but the profit margins on recycled plastic are tiny and eventually China said all the extra pollution wasn't worth it to them which basically gets us here a slow-moving recycling crisis, but it's worse than it seems The US was in a recycling crisis. Well before China has banned, even when we were exporting it our average recycling rate for plastic has been around nine percent.

3 (4m 5s):
So, you know, that means over 90% of our plastic was not getting recycled. Anyway to be clear that means for the majority of plastic in America about 79% was getting landfilled. It wasn't that long ago that plastic seemed like a miracle

1 (4m 28s):
just one word. Yes, sir. I listening just so you Plastics.

3 (4m 36s):
Well, I just want to say one word to you complicated. We all learned the plastic needs to be separated from trash sure and it helps if your city separates plastic from glass and metals but beyond that plastic needs to be sorted from other plastic, you know those numbers on the bottom next to the recycling logo. Those are actually different types of plastic all made from different materials. All of which have to be separated ones and twos are more recyclable. Those are things like your beverage bottles your detergent bottle. bottles milk jugs peanut butter jars, then from there number 3 through 7 are things like polypropylene like the container my takeout came in on Thursday and things like PVC, you know, when you think of like water pipes and things like that and they all have different properties in terms of processing so you can't mix them together and when you get to some of these higher numbers more plastic starts ending up in landfills, there's many places that really just even wouldn't accept them in the first place because again, you don't have Enough value in capturing those and then what we are putting into the recycle bin if it's contaminated, then that doesn't get recycled itself.

3 (5m 51s):
And so that percentage that is able to even be recycled just gets smaller and smaller but great news even this is way worse than it seems The us only recycles nine percent of its plastic seems bad, but that's only plastic. We recycle once and most plastic can only be recycled once or twice, you know, really recycling just delays. It doesn't ever really prevent disposal at whatever point and that would be not a landfill or incinerator. And so it really simply only delays that eventual disposal that's needed. So only some plastic can be recycled and during the process more and more gets disqualified and Only delays the inevitable which is plastic going to an incinerator a landfill or even worse the ocean and all of that is happening while plastic production is skyrocketing.

3 (6m 42s):
It's a great future in Plastics that has been rapidly increasing since we started recording this in 1950. And annually now it's over 330 million tonnes. We also calculated the cumulative amount of plastic that we had produced and that was equal to eight point three billion metric tons. It's very hard to imagine and even when we turned it into something like it's actually equal to 80 million blue whales it's still very hard to imagine. But here's a Twist contrary to everything.

3 (7m 24s):
You've been taught throwing your recycling in the trash might actually be better for the planet a question that was always on our minds was what would be the optimal recycling rate Thomas Kinnaman economics Bucknell University. We were hearing that a complete circular economy with 100% recycling was a goal and that sounded great. But we were concerned about the environmental cost of recycling combined with the economic costs. If you care about recycling you probably throw your plastic in a bin and you feel like great. I did my part but your plastic goes on a journey. It has to be transformed and all that effort makes your good deed complicated.

3 (8m 11s):
At each stop in the recycling Journey there are both economic and environmental costs. So that recycling bin has

1 (8m 17s):
put out on the Monday morning with all of the other recycle materials and probably a different truck than the garbage truck will come down and collect those recycled materials the truck dumps it at some processing facility where all the plastic is

3 (8m 31s):
separated. Ideally. This is all idea because a lot of the plastic ends up in the landfill at this stage because they open up the recycling truck and there's Plastic wrap in there and you know vegetable containers and different types of plastic that buyers don't want in their plastic. And so the buyer comes and looks at and says I won't take that and ends up going to landfill but if it is being truly recycled, then it will be put in a

1 (8m 58s):
container with other exact materials like it and that container will then be trucked somewhere else probably far from your home. So that's a long truck drive probably shredded in a little bit. Required energy those little plastic bits than could be used in some type of

3 (9m 14s):
new products. Think about every individual cost in that Journey the cost of the trucks the equipment the labor the gasoline

1 (9m 23s):
necessary to go around and collect the recycle materials and materials are then processed this requires energy as well as additional labor all of that

3 (9m 32s):
energy and all of that labor has a significant environmental cost in the end adding it all up. Plastic is one of those materials where the benefits are outweighed by the costs my results suggest maybe we shouldn't even be considering recycling for plastic given that the social costs seem to be higher than if we were to do other things with it. You're basically saying that recycling can be bad for the environment not just like neutral or forgettable, but actually bad it can be landfills tend to be closer to municipality than a final recycling Outlet is or you take it to the coast and have it shipped. To a developing country which still does ocean dumping, you know, which bottle is more likely to end up in the ocean.

3 (10m 15s):
The one that you sent to your misery landfill or the one that's being shipped to developing country that still dumps in the ocean. So in some cases recycling is actually be bad for the planet. Absolutely and why do you think these sort of second layer questions about you know, whether recycling can actually be good or bad or not necessarily being asked by most people. I think it became more of a social question that an economic question. The idea was that we produce them too much garbage. Judge, it's not sustainable recycling is a way of kind of entering into a more circular economy. And therefore it just makes sense to do this. Yeah, I think recycling maybe at some point was considered to be sort of like a Gateway activity Gateway into the world of a responsible environmental living that you know, we can get people starting to recycle.

3 (10m 57s):
This will trigger other questions. How else can I help the environment? Maybe I'll stop driving everywhere and get my bike working and use that more often or all walk and I'm not sure that's taken off like that instead of a gateway. It's been used as an excuse like hey, I recycle and I don't need to do anything else that I can continue to drive my SUV to work and keep my house nice and cold in the summer because I recycle my plastic. I'm I'm okay, you know, I'm doing something what's I'm putting you in a situation where you're standing in front of a trash can and a recycling bin and you're holding that one water bottle for you. The cost is exactly the same, you know, you can put it in either bin. Which would you decide to put it in yourself? Well, you know, I'm a creature of habit like so many of us so I still find myself Myself putting it in the plastic Bend.

3 (11m 42s):
It's possible that we want to keep the supply chain going just in case there is technological innovation that occurs soon. We're all hoping for that. Right but to be clear for right now. It's better to throw that bottle away with classic. He has better the landfill or

1 (11m 56s):
incineration.

3 (12m 4s):
All right, this is Sean. I'm back. I started off this whole thing saying incineration is shocking that absolutely cannot be the thing we should do right? But what if it is no, I'm stairs down the fire after the break on today explained.

1 (12m 39s):
What are you doing baby of you? And what are you doing real you and what are you doing baby out of you? And what are you doing rate it and reviewing and one more every now pick your favorite episode and send it to a friend and one more thing. Thank you. Favorite episode is send it to a friend. What are you doing fives? What are you doing? This show today?

1 (13m 23s):
Explains Trudy

3 (13m 25s):
explain? Before we get to incineration. Let's just set the stage. Our recycling system is broken. The vast majority of America's plastic is not getting recycled. It's mainly ending up in landfills or Worse the ocean. So what do we do well to figure it out. I hopped on a

1 (13m 50s):
bus and headed down to the covanta incinerator in

3 (13m 54s):
Alexandria. It's one of about a hundred ways to energy plants in the u.s. And like Mom says it's designed to do two basic things get rid of waste and generate

1 (14m 3s):
energy right be a little Gusty out there. You know, we've few thousand tons of trash so there will be an odor too.

3 (14m 13s):
Kevin mcgonagle Environmental Compliance specialist. He also gives the

1 (14m 17s):
tours. There's an odor. To be honest, though. It's not that bad.

3 (14m 24s):
Like it's certainly not as bad as where I used to live in New

1 (14m 27s):
York. So yeah, the crane operator is operating the crane or call using a series of joysticks. We're in a giant Warehouse.

3 (14m 36s):
There's a guy on a perch operating a jumbo version of that arcade claw game picking up mountains of crap instead of teddy bears.

1 (14m 43s):
There's a huge wall of mixed waste on either side of us

3 (14m 46s):
plastic cardboard furniture.

1 (14m 48s):
Banana peels you name it and right in front of us. Maybe 30 40 foot

3 (14m 53s):
drop down to where the trucks are dumping

1 (14m 54s):
waste in the waste-to-energy process. This is the beginning Step 1 sorting waste comes in its dumped onto the Tipping floor before being pushed into the Refuge storage Bay. So Kevin, I just saw the claw like lift up and then sort of drop a chunk down with that in a mixing process. That's what we call a fluffing the way. It's preventing you from just having all of one kind of material all cardboard wallpaper. We know some ways it's more heating value like Plastics wet cardboard is going to have less heating values. That's why they're mixing it before feeding. They need to get it just right

3 (15m 31s):
there's this sea of waste out here, but they're always burning 1/3 plastic 2/3 non-plastic and on the upper ledge with us is a series of Hoppers which are basically these huge buckets with slanted ramps for the waste to slide down on its way to the combustion chamber once the claw picks up a good

1 (15m 47s):
mix. It's gonna be dropped into that Hopper where to begin. Gravity fed. This waste will be reduced to Ash in about one hour to two hours. All the trash in the hopper gets burnt up. Yeah, it's going directly into the municipal waste combustor. Can we see some fire? Absolutely Step 2 combustion. This is a view inside the combustion chamber. So this is where we're burning waste about 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit the way we're generating electricity as we have water wall tubes lining inside of the boiler for heating up water to convert steam steam goes for generator and turns the blades to generate electricity.

1 (16m 28s):
Energy. It's a good deal. Oh shit by the time the weights get to this wall. It's reduced to Ash at this point. We've taken a pile of mixed waste burned it and what's left

3 (16m 42s):
over is Ash and chunks of unburnt metal which brings us to step three metal

1 (16m 48s):
recovery - passes off the end of this vibrating pan. It falls into one truck. The metal is picked up and dropped into a separate box. Which is eventually sent to a scrap metal yard, so we should see some recovery here. I'm sure you'll see some spoons and knives and stuff like that. So this is just like enormous rotating magnet. Yes. The bicycle just went by the shopping cart.

3 (17m 18s):
It's hard to picture just how crazy this all looks there are big chunks of metal like mattress Springs bed frames silver. We're all just going

1 (17m 28s):
and sticking to this huge rotating magnet. We're gonna 30 tons a day at that. Material 11,000 tonnes per year. That's 11,000 tons of metal that's being

3 (17m 37s):
recycled every year instead of heading to a

1 (17m 39s):
landfill. Let's go outside. Except for pollution control see that ductwork there. That's where all the flue gases come so you burn trash you've got gases that come off of that. That's what that ductwork is. Basically you're injecting a lime slurry

3 (17m 58s):
a lime slurry is basically a chemical missed that reacts with the flue gas to reduce acid gas emissions.

1 (18m 4s):
Then it goes to a bag house Kevin walks over to the bag house which handles the bigger pieces of flying Ash six compartments were gases are going through It's designed that way so they go through a cleaning cycle one at a time just blast are knocks Yash down into a hopper here and drops it back into the boiler. So it's kind of a closed loop system. You've got combined - sent to a truck which is eventually at this at this site is Central amount of filler Ash landfill that

3 (18m 33s):
Ash goes to a landfill but that's only about 10% of the size of the original waste finally we get to step five energy creation. So the

1 (18m 42s):
steam There's the turbine which generates electricity goes to a switch yard run by Dominion, Virginia Power who will sell that to the end user.

3 (18m 56s):
Okay, that's how they work. So should we be burning all our plastic? It's not ideal. The ideal situation is to reduce waste Marco castaldi chemical engineering City College of New York. The ideal situation after that is to reuse it and then whatever cannot be reduced or reused or recycled have to extract the energy from it and converting it with waste-to-energy has a lower environmental impact. Ben landfilling, there's something called the waste hierarchy the waste hierarchy starts with reduce reuse recycle. And that's all most of us got in school. Just the first three words of the waste hierarchy and that's best to worst reduce then reuse then recycle, but guess what's

1 (19m 42s):
next Plastics?

3 (19m 44s):
No go away. It's incineration. Then all the way at the bottom the worst thing we can do with our waste is drop it in a landfill when you put material into a landfill you're releasing methane, which is 86 times stronger than CO2 over a 20 year time frame, which means for every one ton that you convert in a waste energy facility. You have offset nominally one ton of CO2. So greenhouse gas emissions definitely a benefit with waste-to-energy still there's obviously the whole Waste thing anytime you're dealing with this garbage. There's going to be a missions in one form of the other whether it's air emissions a solid emissions, but the amount of dioxin that's released from waste-to-energy facilities is miniscule.

3 (20m 32s):
You will get more exposure to dioxins looking at a firework display for 15 or 20 minutes. Then you will be exposed to dioxins of a waste-to-energy facility processing waste for a hundred years, and there have been studies that Examine the effects of living near these plans. In fact one that's just come out where there was a seven-year study on facilities in the UK that looked at infant mortality, you know birth outcomes in terms of you know abnormalities and it showed that there was none even so incineration is really controversial most of the incinerators in the u.s. Today are located in communities of color and low-income communities that are often referred to as environmental justice.

1 (21m 18s):
He's

3 (21m 19s):
and they contribute pollution to local communities that are already overburdened by other pollution sources on a Baptista runs the Environmental Policy program at the new school in New York. It's very difficult. If not impossible to trace Public Health outcomes to any one particular facility. What I am confident about is incinerators are definitely contributing to the overall pollution burden in a community in Bayern mental Justice communities if you ask them what their target is, they would say they don't prefer landfills or incinerators Professor Baptista wants the world. We were promised ideas like zero Waste Solutions that divert a lot more of the waste stream to composting and to recycling and in some cases looking at opportunities to reduce the overall burden load on Waste Systems.

3 (22m 19s):
I should point out that this particular debate is very American in Europe. It's a whole different ball

1 (22m 25s):
game.

3 (22m 32s):
First of all, they're just way better at recycling. They're also way more into incinerating. There's about 500 incinerators in Europe. America's got under a hundred greater Paris garbage that can't be recycled

1 (22m 45s):
is converted into energy some of which the plants use to run themselves

3 (22m 50s):
sweet and burns half its waste and even import some from the UK just to burn it Sweden is considered the world leader in the

1 (22m 57s):
Field of

3 (22m 57s):
waste-to-energy in Vienna. The incinerator is featured on postcards.

1 (23m 1s):
I think it's pretty remarkable step that city of Vienna did this but the most original plant is probably in

3 (23m 9s):
Copenhagen downhill downtown. This is the city center Power Station the neighbors don't object to the Danish plant has an actual ski slope on its roof. Seriously our ski slope here there at Copan Hill is a lot different than when you visit a mountain also good. There's a lot of reasons why the US and Europe are so different when it comes to waste Europe needs the energy from incineration more than the u.s. Does because it's not as rich in fossil fuels and they have much much less cheap land for landfilling most European countries even have landfill bans, but most noticeably incinerators are right there in the middle of some of the ritziest neighborhoods the most well-known like the one in me and now the Copenhagen and the one in Amsterdam.

3 (23m 57s):
In Paris, it's not necessarily it is where you have a poverty. I mean most lands in Europe. I would not say that they are kind of hidden somewhere Yannick vac zero-waste Europe Brussels, not a fan of incinerators, but not because of the pollution. I don't think the hair pollution is the main issue nowadays. It's mainly the lock-in effect the fact that these are plants that have to be there for in order to pay back at least 25 30 40 years and and that locks the race management system into burning even though countries in Europe are some of the best recyclers on Earth Yannick wants even more government investment in recycling like Professor Anna Baptista at the new school.

3 (24m 40s):
He wants the world. We were promised Reduce Reuse maybe even recycle in Europe. It doesn't feel nearly as Out Of Reach back in the United States things are a little more dire China doesn't Plastic we're using more and more of it every day only 9% of it is getting recycled and then people are scared of incineration, but maybe that's because people don't understand just how bad waste really is and who can blame them Europe is burning things out in the open. We're mostly doing it in poor neighborhoods and communities of color Europe talks about landfill bans.

3 (25m 20s):
The u.s. Talks about plastic straw bands and that is not putting much of a dent in those 80 million blue. Whales worth of plastic Attic incineration can and should be part of the solution, but we can't just go burning all of our plastic plants can't handle it which is why I covanta stopped burning recyclables outside of Philly and has rejected similar offers from other cities to What's Left is a choice with no easy answer either. We stop making so much plastic or some how we innovate our way out of the problem in a sense China forcing our hand here might have been a good thing. It might Force us to confront the Ugly realities of incineration or the even uglier realities of landfills more the ugliest reality of floating plastic Islands the size of Texas, whatever the less than ideal scenario is we're living it right now and most of us don't even know it.

3 (26m 31s):
No, I'm hassenfeld reporter producer composer today explained that was importing he did back in September. I'm Sean Rama's from a female's the engineer Bridget McCarthy, Amna al-saadi and Halima shop reduce will read probably helped with this one too. Olivia Xtreme checks are facts. Now the mysterious brake master cylinder brings us music today explain his back and better than ever on. Monday the show is part of the VOX media podcast Network