3 (1s):
You know ever since I had a septuagenarian on the show last week talking about kiwi

1 (5s):
Co in one of our ads people have been saying I had no idea that kiwi co-maid stuff for adults. Well kiwi code does you can try out your first month on kiwi Co for free right now at kiwi co.com explained. It was hard to not feel a little cognitive dissonance watching those impeachment hearings. The last two weeks it here the head of the house intelligence committee Adam Schiff say something like are we prepared to accept that a president? I'd states can leverage official acts military assistance White House meetings to get an investigation of a political rival and then you'd hear ranking member devilboydamien.

1 (55s):
Luna's respond with something like they got caught trying to obtain nude photos of President Trump from Russian pranksters throughout the two weeks of televised testimony. It always seemed like the ranking Republican. Devin Nunes was chasing a completely different story like he had zero interest in the story about the Trump Administration that was being presented to him. And then right as the proceedings were wrapping up on Friday. Devin Nunes became A part of that story he wasn't interested in

3 (1m 28s):
which is actually not that unusual for

1 (1m 30s):
him. Marissa Lagos co-hosts political breakdown. It's a podcast from KQED in San Francisco. The

3 (1m 37s):
congressman who is from California Central Valley essentially was accused first in a Daily Beast story that love parnas. One of those indicted Associates of Rudy Giuliani essentially said that he had helped arrange meetings and calls for the congressman with some you. Minions

1 (1m 56s):
another of Partners as lawyers Ed McMahon told The Daily Beast earlier this week that parnas quote helped arrange meetings and calls in Europe for representative. Devin Nunes in 2018 Nunes a Derek Harvey participated in the meetings. The lawyer said which were arranged to help Nunes investigative

3 (2m 16s):
work and then there was some Congressional Record showing that noone has indeed did travel to Europe last November December early December with some of his aides. On the taxpayers dime. It's I think we should note and that it's an interesting time frame, right? Because at that point Democrats had taken back the house at the polls, but hadn't actually been sworn in so he was still in the majority party at that time. So there was you know, not a lot of oversight from the minority party which was about to assume the

1 (2m 44s):
majority. Hmm. What exactly is left parnas trying to suggest representative Nunez was doing in Ukraine.

3 (2m 51s):
Well at first it was a little unclear but over the weekend, there was some other reporting And a couple of his attorneys have essentially come forward to a couple different news outlets and said that noone has asked parnas to hook him up with that former Ukrainian prosecutor Victor

1 (3m 8s):
shokan. So getting was a symbol of hiding corruption and supporting corruption, especially high rank corruption in Ukraine

3 (3m 20s):
who has been sort of the center of a lot of these questions around the Biden's and whether Token, you know who was widely seen as corrupt by the West had been investigating Biden and other Western leaders. And you know, as I said, it's clear that Nunes did take a trip to Europe around this time frame, but you know, this is all basically on the word of the attorneys for a guy who is indicted on campaign Finance fraud charges right now,

1 (3m 48s):
right so that the the insinuation is that representative Nunez may have also been seeking help. To gaining the Biden's.

3 (3m 56s):
Yeah, I mean, we know that he's one of you know President Trump strongest allies in Congress. These allegations would indicate that even as he's been, you know, the ranking members sort of helping preside over these impeachment inquiry hearings and really calling them completely ridiculous the whole time that he perhaps a year ago was actually the one not Rudy Giuliani, but the one going to Europe to try to encourage an station of the Biden's and of course, you know, Joe Biden's son Hunter Biden and that Energy company buries

1 (4m 31s):
mama. So as bad as that could be for representative known as the flip side is it's coming from someone who doesn't exactly have a sterling record of

3 (4m 40s):
credibility. Yeah, that's totally true. And I think that you know, there's a lot of sort of Tainted folks within this entire process. And so essentially one of Partners as lawyers are saying hey, we'd love to testify about this in front of the intelligence community. The which I think raises questions about what he might hope to get in exchange for that. Of course, he's being prosecuted by the federal government. This is Congress. They are separate Department of Justice, you know is part of the Trump Administration. So it's very messy

1 (5m 10s):
Shawn. If this turns out to be true could Nunes have just avoided all this by saying. Hey, by the way, let's just get this out there. I also went to Ukraine for a minute and had a conversation but it's all good. Nothing happened. Here. We are

3 (5m 22s):
I guess maybe but from what has been reported. So far and if you look at the timing, it looks like he specifically did it at a time frame when he thought he wouldn't be caught so that doesn't always bode. Well, right if you are sort of building in hiding something. Yeah, and I think that this gets to the sort of Crux of these impeachment questions, which is like, is there any situation where it's okay to enlist a foreign government to dig up dirt on a political opponent like maybe but it's I think the fact that it seemed to have happened if it did happen on the Public's dime is also going to be releasing. The key for

1 (5m 56s):
him. So this news broke on Friday. It's Monday what has representative Nunes said about it since then

3 (6m 1s):
he criticized all the outlets have reported this as fake news. No. Yeah. He's never been particularly fond of the news. Let's

1 (6m 10s):
say the media has become totally corrupt that now they're willing to actually engage and help with criminal indicted

3 (6m 19s):
criminals. He's been threatening

1 (6m 20s):
lawsuits. We are going to take both CNN and The Daily Beast. Beef likely into federal court right after

3 (6m 29s):
Thanksgiving and I think sort of denied it but has it took him a while to get to that point on Fox. So, I think it's a little unclear and he's sort of promising more details to come in his lawsuits and other responses.

1 (6m 41s):
We're gonna file all this everyone's going to know the truth. Everybody's going to know all the facts, but I think you can understand that. I can't compete by trying to trying to debate this out with the public media when they 80% of the media are totally corrupt. So he hasn't come out and just flat-out denied it. He has promised further action further information and is suing CNN. I don't know

3 (7m 7s):
if he's filed a lawsuit yet, but he is certainly threatening to and that would not be out of the norm for Devin Nunes.

1 (7m 17s):
What do you mean?

3 (7m 18s):
So he's been very Soo happy lately. He has sued a farmer in his tricked into other folks who actually went to court asking that Nunez not be allowed to be called a farmer on the ballot last year. They felt like it wasn't accurate because he's not really farming anymore. He sued a couple of anonymous Twitter users who ran parody accounts against him including one that's at Devon cow.

1 (7m 45s):
This is a road. Devon's boots are full of manure. He's utterly

3 (7m 50s):
worthless, and it's pasture

1 (7m 52s):
time to move him to prison.

3 (7m 55s):
And one of the people involved in that is a republican consultant if you can believe that who he thinks is responsible for some of these parody accounts. He has gone off to the Fresno Bee which I think it's worth noting until this past cycle had actually endorsed Nunes every time but has done some reporting on some of the financial interest in his Winery and some of the bad behavior by those folks and he has basically accused them of smearing him. He's gone after another other journalists Ryan lizza from Esquire who did a really interesting story about Nunez and how basically his family dairy farm is not actually in California anymore. It's an Iowa. So yeah, he's happy to go to court when he feels like people have defamed him in.

3 (8m 40s):
None of these cases has he been successful yet? But actually some of them are still moving their way through the system, but you know, I think there's an argument to be made that some of these could be viewed as

1 (8m 51s):
frivolous. For those of us who just spent two weeks watching Nunez on a national stage. It seems like he's very much with the president and aligned with this Republican cohort who sees these Democratic proceedings this impeachment inquiry as a total farce as a shambles. How do people back in Devin Nunes is home District see him right now

3 (9m 17s):
that is where I think it gets really interesting. He is basically been sort of embraced as a home. Tony Hero by farmers in his district, you know, he could does come from a dairy farming family. And I mean, I think people a lot of people not everybody but by the his argument that it is a conspiracy against him by the media that he is sort of doing right by his district. He's been really strong on Farmers water rights, which is basically like the issue and the Central Valley and I think that a lot of times what we hear from folks is like that's what we care about. All this other stuff is noise, you know, it's the left-wing media. Trying to take tear him down and he's one. I mean he only won by five points last time which was a pretty dramatic difference in that district is you know has a republican registration Advantage.

3 (10m 6s):
So he's gotten more real challenges in the past couple of years, but he seems to still be really well-liked in this District which is fascinating especially in part because it's very heavily Latino, and we know in 2018 that Latino turnout actually help Democrats flip a lot of other Tricks around the state that have been held by Republicans, but they have not had success with this one. Yes, although I should say they are going to Target it again.

1 (10m 31s):
Tell us a little bit more about his district.

3 (10m 33s):
It is Farmland. I mean, this is the Central Valley it includes Fresno but also parts of Tulare County, which is I think sort of even more rural Fresno's kind of, you know, one of the population centers in the Central Valley and it is a very different place than the coast in California. I mean we think of California as such a blue place, but if you go east A couple hours. It's Farmland. Its Heartland. It is largely very conservative. And again, like people who I think understandably more concerned with their bottom line, especially as Farmers, which is a tough industry to begin with then, you know, what's happening thousands of miles away in DC or quite frankly a couple hundred of miles away and like San Francisco or Los

1 (11m 15s):
Angeles and did Nunes grow up a farmer. Does he actually have a claim to to that cohort?

3 (11m 22s):
They did Farm his family. Still own dairy farms, but in Iowa, so I mean that's part of the reason that you've seen like folks who oppose him come out and say hey, why do you get to say farmer on the ballot? Like you're not really a farmer. I mean, he has really been as an adult a politician. I mean, he did go to a good school. He had run when he was in school for like the board of his college because he was worried that they were going to shut down their Farmland that kids trained on when in fact they said no, we're actually just Sprint to buy a bigger place, so it's sort of like a conspiracy theory launched him into his first political office, which is pretty fitting because that's sort of like his Vibe. I mean, he's always been very much like on the outskirts of the mainstream sort of assumptions.

3 (12m 10s):
And it's not just like a republican Democratic thing. Even when Republicans were in charge of Congress and you know, he's on the intelligence committee. There's a lot of anecdotes about him sort of listening to one person in the field who contradicts what the entire intelligence Community is saying and Republicans really getting frustrated with him over that so like I think that there was something especially with Trump that they saw eye-to-eye on from the get-go and really sort of bonded over which was like this. Distrust of the system and this idea that everyone's out to get you and that there's something like whatever the establishment thinks is the case. There's probably something different about it.

3 (12m 51s):
I mean, he's always had that sort of skepticism and I think some people would say paranoia about the intelligence Community about DC about the media. This is all in line with sort of his approach to politics and I would say probably life.

1 (13m 24s):
Devin Nunes constantly casting doubt on the legitimacy of our institutions isn't just a one off in a minute boxes David Roberts argues. It's part of a grand old plan. I'm Sean Rama's for him. This is today explained. Michael from a condo all the way up in Toronto. We spoke last week about how your daughter Jillian got you signed up with a kiwi Co subscription at kiwi co.com / explained where people can get their first month for free, but we didn't talk about the particular as you started with a pinball machine with a pinball machine.

1 (14m 5s):
So, you know, probably collectively if I hadn't been interrupted probably took it, you know, two or three hours to put together, but it's that particular thing and I don't know what as I said what next is coming was Quite durable. I was quite surprised when it all got tied and snap together and I've got a almost a four-year-old grandson and seven year old granddaughter and they're not always to Gentle but they've been playing with the thing and enjoying the heck out of it. And the best part is you now have a subscription to these Kiko projects and there will be more. Yes and my wife wasn't too pleased to have we're going to store all this stuff here.

1 (14m 50s):
That's my problem not hers. David Roberts you write about energy and politics for Vox and you recently kind of wrote about how people are running out of energy to participate in our politics. You wrote that we're undergoing an epistemic crisis. What does that mean? Epistemology is the philosophical term for the for branch of philosophy that's about knowing things but knowledge, but how we gain knowledge about how we assess knowledge. What is evidence? What's the difference between truth and Onion all those related questions in philosophy or known as epistemology. And so when I say an epistemic crisis, I mean a crisis in the way that we collectively come to know things IE when we don't seem to collectively come to know things anymore.

1 (15m 41s):
It seems we are now have been kind of hived into two separate epistemic communities who know different things trust different sources of information have procedures for evaluating knowledge and just are increasingly unable to communicate across that Chasm and I think that would sound or seem familiar to anyone who watched the impeachment hearings California representative Schiff leading the charge for one community and California representative Nunes leading the charge for the other and these two representatives of the same state may as well have been from different planets and you argue this particular phenomenon is something Called tribal epistemology.

1 (16m 26s):
What's that about sure, what the term tribal epistemology is just meant to sort of indicate a situation where the kind of dictates and interests of your tribe in this case meaning sort of the right-wing tribe in the US what you come to know and how you come to know things is dictated by the interests of your tribe rather than vice versa. You believe what's good for your tribe to believe and disbelieve what? Not good for your tribe to believe this isn't something that Trump invented, right? How exactly did we get to this crisis that you write about sure. It's been ongoing for decades, but I really think Mitch McConnell Republican Senate leader is a politician who almost more than any other contemporary politician has realized what's going on and how to use it to his advantage.

1 (17m 22s):
So he realized before Obama even took office people aren't paying close attention to politics and they have a kind of these basic heuristics. They apply to politics and one of them is if something is legitimate if an idea or proposal is legitimate, it will get some agreement on both sides of the aisle. It will command some consensus that's sort of like a signal of legitimacy to everybody really like it's really deep in us, too. Think that way and so what Mitch McConnell realized was well, all I have to do to prevent Obama from being able to command consensus or get cooperation on both sides is just deny cooperation. Like I can single-handedly make him look polarizing I can make him look divisive just by refusing to go along with him.

1 (18m 14s):
One of the most fascinating stories about Nixon's impeachment is Roger Ailes, even or one of those right wing figures was actually in Nixon's Administration instead. If you had a network of your own we could get through this like almost verbatim ever since then they've basically more and more come to view mainstream institutions. That's the mainstream media the mainstream science the academy you name it as their enemy. As members of the other side, right so they have decided we need to build institutions of our own basically. So they built a kind of parallel set of of think tanks and academic institutions and media.

1 (18m 56s):
So now you have this sort of separate epistemic tribe with its own sources of information its own history its own principles its own science. I mean, its own sort of freestanding world, you know, Trump I think they felt the need to sort of keep a foot in the old world or at least speak the language of mainstream institutions or sort of speak a language that gave their kind of tribal reasoning a kind of plausible deniability a Sheen of being something else. But what Trump has done is render that impossible because any sort of principle you stake your claim on he'll violate the next day. I mean, we've seen it over and over again to keep doing it for tell a story about why you know why his behavior is okay, and he'll come out the following day and just All over this story.

1 (19m 43s):
So even this notion that we need to sort of like frame these beliefs in a way that's plausible given the old standards has kind of faded away and it's just become a much more naked thing things are bad, but our lawmakers used to shoot each other and and you see legislative sessions in other countries descend into straight-up brawls, but still you argue that this is a crisis that could like make or break our democracy. I'm only you know About halfway sure of that. I mean I've been watching, you know, politics elastic several decades and I keep thinking like this. This will be the moment it reaches a boil like this is the crisis Point.

1 (20m 24s):
Something's got to break. Something's got to give but it just like keeps going on and on so I should say like Maybe not maybe this isn't the crisis but it feels to me like a combination of the stakes. Right? I mean, this is like the third impeachment trial of a president in American history. It's a really Big deal and what's more Trump's guilt in what he's being accused of is just so obvious at this point. It's it's almost comically obvious. We've got like multiple Witnesses multiple Administration officials have admitted to it on camera that he also mentioned to me in past the the corruption related to the DNC server.

1 (21m 8s):
Absolutely. No question about that, but that's it. And that's why we held up the money before the Later came and scrambled and tried to take it back. We have a significant reversal. Now from the White House a new statement from Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney saying, once again, the media has decided to misconstrue my comments to advance a biased and political Witch Hunt against President Trump. Let me be clear there was absolutely no quid pro quo between Ukrainian military aid and any investigation into the 2016 election. He himself.

3 (21m 38s):
That you

1 (21m 38s):
admitted to it on camera on those on the White House lawn. We had a great conversation. Your station I had was largely congratulatory was largely corruption. All of the corruption taking place was largely the fact that we don't want our people like Vice President Biden and his son creating to the corruption already in the Ukraine in did it again solicited help from foreign powers investigating his opponent to help his political run China. She started Into the budgies because what happened in China is just about as bad as what happened with with Ukraine.

1 (22m 28s):
He did it on camera in front of all of us. So to me it just seems like if even this can't break people out of their Us Versus Them our tribe versus their tribe sort of fixation. Then it really seems like nothing can and furthermore like the the conservative movement is going Anna see what happened with Mueller and then it's going to happen again with impeachment. They're just going to learn again that there's no reason not to make stuff up. It's become so much easier to lie and get the LIE out in front of millions of people.

1 (23m 8s):
I mean, it's literally now easier to get a lie in front of millions of people than it is to get a truth in front of millions of people and representative Nunes actually pinned the entire weight of the Proceedings on exactly how many people were watching as if the only possible metric of the importance of the entire impeachment inquiry would be how many people were watching it on TV? Well Ambassador, mr. Morrison, I have some bad news for you TV ratings or way down way down. I don't don't hold it. Personally. I don't think it's you guys. Whatever drug deal the Democrats are cooking up here on the dais American people aren't buying it. I should say Millions upon millions of people were watching this on TV.

1 (23m 51s):
So he was again misleading at least some American people because some American people are inclined to believe the ranking Republican member on the house intelligence committee. What is the antidote to this moment? We're into this tribal epistemology the antidote To Nunez is for institutions to do their job. That's sort of the key crisis. I'm trying to describe here is like this is this looks to me like us institutions just like their last gasp their last chance to sort of behave the way they're supposed to but the institutions are weak Sean.

1 (24m 32s):
I don't know if you noticed this but like our institutions are weak and they've been under constant assault, you know, like the media is a great example of just been under constant unremitting assault from the right for decades now and it has been beaten into this position as sort of Hesitancy and sort of refusal to sort of draw clear lines or say this is true in this isn't it? So the institutional checks that used to sort of keep this Behavior Limited in its impact at least are weakened and dying. So this is just one of many many many reasons, you know, whenever Trump's gone whenever this country thinks about how to sort of rebuild and revive itself.

1 (25m 16s):
We've got to sort of recapture the value of these Norms of just like fact-checking of like evidence and you know respect for principles, even if they work against the interests of your tribe your beholden to them this sense that we are all of us beholden to some principles higher than partisanship. We've got to restore that sense somehow all of politics is suffering from the lack of it.

1 (26m 5s):
What are your 7 going on a tour 79 going on a tqe coat would like to give you the chance to try out their fun and engaging and educational projects for free to redeem the offer. You can type in ki w i Co dot c om / expl AI NE d