1 (2s):
The Honorable Kevin McCarthy of the State of California, having received a majority of the votes Cast is duly elected Speaker of the House of Representatives.

2 (13s):
Since the dawn of his speakership, Kevin McCarthy's position in the House of Representatives has been tenuous at best. It took him 15 votes to win the position, and it's been a tough road ever since.

3 (28s):
A military cannot defend themselves if you train him in woke.

2 (33s):
But this past weekend, he faced his toughest challenge, yet avoiding a government shutdown.

3 (39s):
Nobody wins in a government shutdown, nobody wins in a government shutdown. I've been here

2 (46s):
And he pulled it off. All he had to do was work with the Democrats. Now it might cost him his job. Anyway, that's Coming up. On today explained.

4 (1m 1s):
I went to the precinct and I said, look, I wanted to talk about a murder that I think happened

5 (1m 9s):
In 1993. Travell Coleman shot a man but was never a suspect. He kept the secret For years and years.

6 (1m 17s):
I've heard of people turning themselves in, but it's usually soon thereafter, the crime. I've never experienced anything like someone coming forward 17 years after the fact. So no, this is absolutely extraordinary

5 (1m 30s):
Here. Traves story on the latest episode of Criminal, listen, wherever you get your podcasts

0 (1m 43s):
Explained.

2 (1m 47s):
Jordan Weissman is the Washington editor at Semafor, which means he didn't get out much this weekend. We asked him why the government was on the precipice of yet another shutdown. He said it came down to the hardliners, the folks who call themselves the Freedom Caucus.

7 (2m 3s):
There are a few different things that the Freedom Caucus wanted, and I should be specific. Yes, it's the Freedom Caucus, but because Republican politics are infinitely complicated, it's like a fractal. You keep looking and they're just repeated patterns forever. Some of the hardliners in the Freedom Caucus, some are not like Gates, but he's sort of temperamentally aligned with them. He's

2 (2m 22s):
Freedom, curious.

7 (2m 23s):
He's freedom. Curious. Some like Marjorie Taylor Greene have been booted from the Freedom Caucus because she was too close to leadership at points. She was too close to McCarthy, but then she became a pain for him later on.

8 (2m 35s):
I mean, this dynamic is especially fascinating because Marjorie Taylor Greene is one of the most pro-Trump pro MAGA members of the House. And the Freedom Caucus has long been considered one of Trump's top allies in the house.

7 (2m 46s):
Anyway, let's just talk about what they actually were looking for. They wanted a lot, it's hard to summarize everything because their demands were a little bit sprawling, but I think you can really focus on three things. One, they wanted bigger spending cuts, and this sort of goes back to the debt ceiling deal essentially they had earlier this year, they didn't get the spending cuts they wanted during that in the final agreement. And so this was their second bite at the apple. So they wanted to cut deeper. We will

3 (3m 15s):
Prevent President Biden's executive overreach to spend money outside the normal process, which President Biden has abused to

7 (3m 24s):
The team. Number two, a lot of hardliners, especially Freedom Caucus, wanted to deal with border security as they put it. They wanted more spending on the border. They wanted changes on border policy because as they see it, the flow of migrants coming across the US Mexico border has just spiraled completely out of control.

9 (3m 43s):
The real issue is not the shutdown. The real issue is the two crisises we have in this country. Economic security crisis and economic crisis.

7 (3m 53s):
And number three, another huge issue here is Ukraine. There is a large contingent of the Republican party, though not all of it. That is essentially done with the war in Ukraine.

10 (4m 4s):
There is a growing rift within the Republican party over how and if to assist Ukraine as its war against Russia enters its second year.

7 (4m 17s):
They'll often connect it directly back to the border. They'll say, we should be spending that money at home securing our own, you know, borders not defending somebody else's And. that sort of became a sticking point with the likes of Marjorie Taylor Greene, for instance. And so I think those three issues spending levels, the border and Ukraine sort of dominated the discussion. But there was all sorts of other stuff swirling around that that made it kind of hard. To summarize what the, the conservative ask was here

2 (4m 48s):
Were Democrats willing to negotiate on any of the, the key cornerstones of the Freedom Caucus asks spending cuts, more spending at the border and no more spending in Ukraine

7 (5m 1s):
Dramatic spending cuts at No, I mean that's, that's sort of a non-starter. I think that there, there were sort of whispers about whether or not you could see a, a deal with some border funding for Ukraine, some kind of Ukraine aid, some kind of trade there. But no, in general, Democrats have not been in a mood to negotiate. That I think is the gist here is that in the House Democrats were just not even engaging because they saw the Republican party kind of disintegrating. It

11 (5m 28s):
Is one of the basic items that Congress has to deal with and it should be done without conditions. So there is going to be, there's gonna be no negotiation over it. This is something that must get done.

7 (5m 40s):
And in the Senate there was this interesting dynamic where Democrats and Republicans were actually just kind of working together in a bipartisan fashion to pass their own budget bills. That kind of stuck to the deal that Biden and McCarthy had struck. During the debt ceiling showdown, they said, we have a deal. We're going to write bills that fund the government at those levels and we are going to include Ukraine funding because this is the Senate where most people want Ukraine funding. So there was these kind of two totally different dynamics where you had the house in kind of chaos mostly. 'cause the Republican party was at war with itself over how to pass a completely partisan bill and the Senate where things were kind of just rolling along pretty functionally.

7 (6m 21s):
And there was a lot of speculation that the Senate might just jam the house as people on Capitol Hill like to say that they would just send them a bill and make them meet it And. that was going to be the end of story and that's not quite how things played out. But if you went back a few days, that was sort of what a lot of people were expecting.

2 (6m 39s):
So yeah, let's talk about how things actually played out heading into the weekend. Shut down was the word, and then what the heck happened.

7 (6m 47s):
What happened in the end is that Kevin McCarthy swerved, His strategy was to try to make whatever herculean effort he could to pass a G O P only bill, which is, you know, the most conservative bill he could that would then give him some kind of negotiating position with Democrats in the Senate. That was basically his strategy. And in order to both, you know, give himself a good negotiating position, but also to keep his job and keep his conference happy and he just couldn't do it. He could not pass even a temporary spending bill. He was having trouble passing the individual appropriations bills that his, you know, hard line members had asked for.

12 (7m 30s):
What ultimately happened was that after trying again and again to get just Republican votes on a short-term spending, bill McCarthy couldn't get the votes no matter how conservative he made that bill. And

7 (7m 44s):
There was a point where all kind of looked lost where he brought up a short term spending bill with, I think it was a 30% spending cut baked into it for a short period of time and also had the border security money. And the hardliners still said no because many of them just did not want any kind of short term funding. They are kind of philosophically against the idea of short term spending bills so-called continuing resolutions. And so it seemed as if nothing could pass the house until finally he said, okay, fine, I'm going to turn and work with the Democrats. And what you ended up getting was a sort of what they call a clean continuing resolution. And what it was is basically kept funding where it was, you know, just continued the government's funding at at previous levels.

7 (8m 30s):
And it also included disaster aid, but the concession that Democrats and some Republicans and the Senate had to make in order to get this thing through the house was dropping Ukraine aid from it for temporarily.

2 (8m 42s):
So it sounds like Ukraine loses, who else loses?

7 (8m 46s):
You could say hardline Republicans because they essentially protested their way out of a deal, right? They didn't get any input in the end for the most part on what this short term budget resolution looked like. And I think there are big questions about whether they're gonna have much input on what the final budget looks like, because already you're setting up this situation now where McCarthy is working with Democrats and he's been making comments like, it's okay to work with Democrats if it's necessary. He's suddenly, you know, talking up the virtues of bipartisanship because some of his members refused to take yes for an answer. When

3 (9m 21s):
Are you guys gonna get over that? It's all right that you put America first, that it's all right. If Republican and Democrats join together to do what is right, there has to be an adult in the room

7 (9m 33s):
And. that might mean that they just get the satisfaction of saying no and kind of fighting their good fight. but they may not have much say over what the final budget looks like.

2 (9m 43s):
And I guess the winners here are a little less clear. Obviously if you're an air traffic controller or a United States service member and you're getting a paycheck this week, you're a winner. But in Washington, did everyone kind of lose here?

7 (9m 56s):
No, I don't think so. I think actually there were, there were a bunch of winners. If you are a moderate Republican, guys like Mike Lawler from New York and Don Bacon from Nebraska, who you hear from all the time basically urging McCarthy to ignore as they like to put it, the crazies or the lunatics to his right. These

13 (10m 15s):
People can't define a win. They don't know how to take yes for an answer. It's a clown show.

7 (10m 22s):
You got what you wanted with this continuing resolution. He finally just said, enough is enough and extended an olive branch to Democrats at least temporarily and passed something just to keep the government governing. That's what a lot of moderates have wanted. Mm. If you are Kevin McCarthy, you know, it's a question if he's going to end up the winner or the loser. If he manages to keep his job, he may look like a big winner. If he doesn't keep his job after all of this, then well, you know, history's going to look at him as one of the losers

2 (10m 52s):
Because his arch nemesis, Matt Gaetz, is now saying that he's gonna come for his job.

7 (10m 56s):
That is the next chapter of this drama. The thing to understand about the Gates and McCarthy fight is that no one fully seems to have wrapped their heads around it and know all the details, but a lot of it appears to be purely personal. Huh? That's what makes the whole thing so crazy. You know, I've been joking for a while that gates is sort of, I don't, this is gonna age me, but is sort of like the Sean Connery to McCarthy's Alex Trebek, that he's just constantly there.

14 (11m 25s):
This is the sound a doggy makes Mr. Connery Mole.

2 (11m 31s):
What a reference. Yeah.

7 (11m 32s):
Just constantly there trolling him, ruining McCarthy's life.

15 (11m 36s):
Well that's the sound your mother made last night.

7 (11m 39s):
But everyone says this, and McCarthy has said this many times, that this is actually just a pure personal vitriol, you

3 (11m 46s):
Know, this is personal with Madda, he's more interested in securing TV interviews than doing something he wanted to.

7 (11m 52s):
And McCarthy has suggested it points that it actually has to do with an ethics investigation. Oh, into Gates that's going on that McCarthy has refused to try and intervene in Gates has is being investigated in Congress over potential sexual impropriety.

1 (12m 7s):
The House Ethics Committee launching a bipartisan investigation, examining allegations of sexual misconduct, elicit drug use, and whether Gates shared inappropriate images or videos on the house floor.

7 (12m 20s):
The Justice Department looked into this a while ago, essentially whether or not he was involved in what might have technically been sex trafficking, they decided to close that investigation. It gets very complicated, but the poisoners is, all of this isn't really necessarily related to policy. I mean, there is some of that gates, we'll talk about how McCarthy made a deal with the hardliners when it came to things like spending levels and the process for the budget And that McCarthy has now reneged on that deal, especially by working with Democrats.

16 (12m 51s):
It is going to be difficult for my Republican friends to keep calling President Biden feeble while he continues to take Speaker McCarthy's lunch money in every negotiation.

7 (13m 3s):
And so now, because McCarthy broke his word, he is now going to bring what's called a motion to vacate to try and oust the speaker. But no one really believes, this is all just about numbers on a page or about parliamentary procedure. A lot of this appears to be real, real interpersonal hatred.

2 (13m 24s):
This is pretty great. Miles sent a meme from Godzilla with, what's his name again? Oh, the

7 (13m 30s):
Let The Let 'em Fight Meme. Yeah,

2 (13m 33s):
We'll put it in the show. Let them fight.

7 (13m 37s):
So we actually have to figure out what next year's budget is going to look like. I wouldn't wanna place a bet right now on exactly what that spending bill is going to look like, what that deal is going to look like. My hunch is it's gonna be pretty similar to what they agreed upon in the original debt ceiling deal. Assuming that you have this coalition of Democrats and Republicans in the house coming together to push something through and working with the the Senate where you already have a lot of bipartisan agreement on what should happen. That is the substantive thing that has to happen now in the next 45 days. And in the course of that, you're also gonna have a fight over Ukraine funding. That's going to be a a, I think a big showdown over exactly.

7 (14m 18s):
You know, do we fund Ukraine? How much do we fund Ukraine? What conditions do we attach to that? That's going to be an important thing to keep your eye on. But then there's also just this regular daily kind of juicy house drama about whether or not McCarthy's going to remain speaker.

2 (14m 39s):
Well, maybe we'll catch you in like mid-November Jordan.

7 (14m 42s):
Yeah, sure. I can talk to you about the ins and outs of the Commerce Department appropriations

2 (14m 52s):
Jordan Weissmann Semafor dot com is where you can read him. Everyone in Washington just kicked Ukraine funding down the road, even though Ukrainian President Velo, Demir Zelensky was just here in Washington. Meeting with President Biden lobbying for more aid. We're gonna ask the White House how it's feeling about the cost of this compromise when we're back. On today explained,

17 (15m 22s):
I'm Josh Muccio, host of the Pitch from Vox Media. People describe the pitch as the Antis Shark Tank. And I actually agree, take everything you think you know about venture capital startups and fundraising and throw it out because on my show, you'll hear the true story of how these deals get done On our upcoming season. You'll hear legendary investors like Charles Hudson and Elizabeth Yin invest over a million dollars in the startups featured on our show. And let me be clear, none of this is staged. Each episode of the pitch features real entrepreneurs pitching real investors for real money. Then we go the extra mile to tell the true story of what happens after everyone shakes hands and walks out of the room.

17 (16m 8s):
Listen to season 10 of the Pitch podcast to learn from the smartest investors and founders in the world. New episodes drop on Wednesdays. Follow the pitch for free wherever you listen.

18 (16m 21s):
Support for today explain comes from Noom. There is a whole big weight loss industry. It can be hard to figure out what works for you. Noom wants to tell you a bit about noom. Noom uses science and personalization to try to help you manage your weight over the long term. Noom says that their psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors, and you can decide how Noom fits into your life and not the other way around. Noom offered a sample of 4,272 Numer, and 98% of them said Noom helped them change their habits and behaviors for good. Sarah Frank is my colleague here at Vox who works on the business side of things. She had a chance to try out Noom and tell us how it went.

19 (16m 59s):
There were days where I was overeating based on my goal and days where I was undereating and Noom had a very clever way of also matching my mood to those days. So I could actually see after about a week that I tend to eat less on days that I'm a little anxious or stressed. And days that I'm more relaxed, I'm eating more, and I know some people's habits are the opposite of that.

18 (17m 22s):
You can sign up for a trial today@noom.com. That's N O O m.com to sign up for a trial today.

0 (17m 33s):
Ukraine Ukraine Slave. It's

19 (17m 36s):
Ukraine Slave.

20 (17m 38s):
This is Ben Lebo. I'm the White House communications director.

2 (17m 41s):
Wonderful. Ben Congress has averted a government shutdown for now, but for just 45 days. Does the White House, does President Biden see this as a win a loss? Something in between which

20 (17m 54s):
Well, look, it's, it's a win for the American people. This means that 1.3 million active duty troops will continue to get paid. It means that air traffic controllers will be paid. We won't have an impact on, on morale and operations. The Border Patrol will be paid and be able to do their jobs. The 7 million women and children that rely on food and nutrition assistance will still have access to that. If you've got a problem with your Social Security check, there will be someone to call. So this was the right vote, this was the right thing to do. But at the same time, the President believes we've got to stop governing by crisis and, and House Republicans have to stop holding the American people hostage.

20 (18m 38s):
You know, earlier this year, the President, the House and the Senate agreed to a bipartisan budget agreement on how to fund the government for the rest of the year. House Republicans need to keep their word and stop careening from one crisis to another.

2 (18m 52s):
However, one of President Biden's top priorities, Ukraine got the short end of the stick here, just I think 10 days after he had Ukrainian president, VMR Zelensky at the White House, and promised again that the US was in this fight for the long haul. Has the President called Zelensky now to update him on the situation?

20 (19m 15s):
Well, the President made clear that he believed that Ukraine funding should have been included here. There's a bit of residual funds that can use to continue to support Ukraine as they take on Putin's aggression. But now the President and the White House will be working closely with Congress to make sure that Ukraine is funded. The speaker needs to keep his word. There's bipartisan support, bipartisan majorities in both in the House and Senate to continue funding for Ukraine, which is important for our national security interests as well. And the President believes that the speaker should keep his word. He's made clear publicly, including this weekend, that he supports continued funds for Ukraine.

20 (19m 59s):
And that's a, that's a top priority for, for this president to see through Congress

2 (20m 4s):
And, and have the two presidents spoken on the current situation.

20 (20m 7s):
I don't have any news to, to make on that front.

2 (20m 10s):
Okay. When President Biden met with President Zel in Washington, he said he was counting on the good judgment of the United States Congress.

21 (20m 20s):
And earlier this week at the UN General Assembly, I made it clear that, that no nation could be truly secure in the world if in fact we don't stand up and defend the freedom of Ukraine from the face of this Russian brutality and aggression.

2 (20m 38s):
But the outcome here, you know, a lot of Republicans didn't have anything to do with it. It was Democrats who helped pass this measure. Was that under the President's guidance?

20 (20m 48s):
Well, look, as I said earlier, the President believes that this bill was a win for the American people. It would've been absolutely untenable to see our active duty troops go without pay to see 7 million women who require food and nutrition assistance for that to be cut off. Which it would've within a matter of days if, if Congress refused to act and, and fund the government, you would've seen air traffic control delays. You would've seen disaster relief funds for communities like Florida and Maui that had been impacted by storms this summer dry up. So that would've been an absolutely untenable situation. The President believes that Ukraine should have been part of this bill.

20 (21m 32s):
It was not ultimately, but that was the choice facing members of Congress whether to shut down the government due to these extreme ideological demands from Republicans, who by the way, just days before, were threatening to cut domestic programs, funding for domestic programs by 30% across the board and not fund Ukraine. So certainly, you know, the legislation that moved did move with Democratic support, but now the pressure is really on Speaker McCarthy to keep his word here and, and make sure that our support for Ukraine continues.

2 (22m 7s):
Polling suggests that the American public is losing its appetite for Ukraine aid. Do you think we're getting to a place where the United States will move away from providing as much aid as we have to Ukraine? I,

20 (22m 22s):
I think that, and the President believes that our support for Ukraine will continue. He's built a coalition of 50 plus countries around the world supporting Ukraine. If Putin thinks he can outlast that support from the United States and our allies, he's wrong. The president has sent a supplemental funding request to Capitol Hill that he believes that that Congress should pass. And our support for Ukraine has had a significant impact in turning back Putin's war of Aggression. There is bipartisan support from both majorities in the House and Senate leader McConnell and Speaker McCarthy on the Republican side have said that they support continued support for Ukraine.

20 (23m 8s):
And so the president is counting on them to, to keep their word and move this package through.

2 (23m 13s):
However, we have to address Ben that it now seems that Speaker McCarthy could lose his job over this spending. Bill that y'all agreed on this weekend, does the White House have any favorites in mind for the speakership? If that happens?

20 (23m 28s):
Well, that's, that's a vote that the President doesn't have and he'll leave that to the House of Representatives.

2 (23m 51s):
That was Ben LaBolt. He's the communications director for the White House. You can find the White House on Twitter at White House. I'm consistently surprised how sassy that account is. My name's Sean Ramas for the show Today was produced by John Ehrens and Miles Bryan with an assist from SI Petros. We were edited by Miranda Kennedy fact-checked by Amanda Lewellyn and Laura Bullard and engineered by Patrick Boyd and Rob Byers. This is today. Explain.