0 (1s):
A strain of avian flu began spreading in these United States. In late 2021, the CDC was watching the situation unfold and by March of 2022 it reported the flu had been found in 14 states a month later, 34 states by November 46 states, it's easy to bemoan higher egg prices, a real consequence of this flu, but also sort of think this virus is for the birds. However, it's not, not anymore.

1 (27s):
Watch where you step, right? Cover your shoes, it's biosecurity. It's very simple. It's good common sense to say. Where was I? Was I close to poultry?

0 (36s):
Was I close to poultry? How did we get

2 (40s):
Here? Yeah. Okay. So I don't think you should panic.

0 (43s):
Okay. Vox reporter Benji Jones. But we have some questions for you. They're coming up on today, explained it's today explained. I'm Noelle King. Benji Jones is an environmental reporter at Vox and he's been covering this ongoing outbreak of avian flu,

2 (1m 12s):
Avian flu, a k a bird flu or avian Influenza is a disease caused by a virus like covid or the cold. And these viruses belong to a group of viruses known as influenza A. And right now the strain that people are talking about is a kind of bird flu caused by a virus known as H five N one. And it's been spreading a lot lately. Bird flu in general, and there are a lot of different strains, has been around for a long time, at least since the, the late 18 hundreds. Oh, this particular strain was first detected in the late nineties around 19 96, 97 in China.

2 (1m 52s):
And since then it's been spreading mostly through birds, through poultry in many parts of the world, Asia, Africa, Europe, and North America and the US where we're seeing a major outbreak right now.

0 (2m 4s):
And what does that outbreak entail?

2 (2m 7s):
H five N one is a pretty scary virus for birds. It's really contagious. It spreads very quickly and it can kill large percentages of a flock upwards of 90%, even a hundred percent within as few as 48 hours. And what's happened in the US over the last year or so is that we've just seen a huge amount of birds. I mean millions of birds come down with H five N one and farmers have tried to contain the spread by killing birds that are uninfected as well, but also birds that are infected. And it's not just poultry. So domestic birds, chickens, turkeys, things that we eat, but also wild birds. And the numbers are pretty staggering right now.

2 (2m 48s):
Nearly 60 million birds have been affected by this, and I've seen people talk about this as the largest outbreak of avian flu ever in the us.

0 (2m 57s):
60 million birds affected. That is a large number of birds. What happens when a bird gets avian flu? Like a coffins or throat?

2 (3m 9s):
Yeah, birds can get coughs as well as us. They, they sneeze actually was looking up YouTube videos of birds with coughs to see what it, what it sounds like. And it's very cute because they can sometimes like chirp when they cough, but the, the virus targets cells in their respiratory systems and also in their digestive tract. So often you'll see things like coughs and other respiratory system, but also diarrhea and things like that. And then in some cases that can kill them pretty quickly, as I mentioned. How

0 (3m 37s):
Long would you say this has been going

2 (3m 39s):
On? It started to spread within North America in late 2021 and early 22. And since then we've seen this outbreak kind of accelerate. Right now it seems, I was just looking at numbers this morning. It seems like January has seen less affected birds than December. But I also just wanna mention that spring is migration for wild birds and wild birds can also spread this disease. So we could see a flare up happen in the coming months as well.

0 (4m 2s):
How is it spreading?

2 (4m 3s):
So scientists think it's mainly spreading through saliva, mucus, potentially in air that birds are breathing out when they're coughing, when they're sneezing, but also in their feces. And in bird poop, birds poop a lot and in these farms there's a ton of it. And so birds are stepping in it, they might get it in their food. So there's just a lot of ways that it can spread. But like with covid and humans, we think that it can also just spread through, through the air from from bird to bird as well.

0 (4m 33s):
What makes it contagious?

2 (4m 35s):
Yeah. Okay. So this is where we get into some of the like virus science And viruses, as insidious as they seem, they are very incredible organisms for how they work. So this particular strain of avian flu, H five N one targets receptors on cells that line the respiratory tracts of birds and also in their digestive tracts. Those receptors are basically their entry point into cells. Once they enter those cells, the virus can start replicating and that's when it becomes a problem. So birds have a lot of these entry points in their respiratory systems, which allows the virus to replicate, accumulate. And when there's a ton of virus in your airways, that makes it easy to spread from one bird to another.

2 (5m 19s):
And there also could be other traits that give this virus just a very good ability to spread again among birds. Specifically,

0 (5m 31s):
What are the stakes for farmers?

2 (5m 33s):
I think the worst case scenario is that they lose a large proportion of their flock, which means that they might not make money, not be able to make ends meet, and it becomes a crisis for, for them on the farm. And it can also become a crisis for people who eat eggs are famously a very cheap source of protein and we're seeing egg prices rise. And so the stakes are pretty high. When you see an outbreak of bird flu, you see a constraint on the supply of poultry, of, of eggs. And that can make some of our important proteins inaccessible to a lot of Americans and and to people elsewhere as well. So the stakes are, are very high.

0 (6m 5s):
So what are farmers doing to keep chickens from being exposed?

2 (6m 8s):
They're killing a lot of birds and the way they, they do this is also very controversial and sad. A lot of farmers are, are killing millions of birds using an approach called ventilation shutdown, which basically means that they're closing the vents in the chicken coop, which allows it to heat up and they're essentially like frying these birds alive. So it's very dark and sad and a lot of animal rights activists have pushed back on this method pretty strong. And then there are are a range of other prevention methods. I mean you wanna avoid contact with wild birds, you wanna keep your coops very clean, things like that. So we actually have a fair number of tools to try to prevent this from spreading. But even so, we're seeing these as, as I mentioned these wild numbers here,

0 (6m 50s):
What other animals are getting avian flu,

2 (6m 52s):
Even though it's called avian influenza, this virus can actually infect a pretty wide range of mammals. I've seen reports of H five N one in mink in cats in dogs and recently there was a report from Montana of avian flu in grizzly bears. I'm reading now from a release from Montana's wildlife department. They said we observed bears that were in poor condition and exhibited disorientation and partial blindness among other neurological issues. So the state said that they euthanize these bears due to sickness and poor condition. And I was quoting

0 (7m 29s):
There and this virus can spread to dogs. I'm asking on behalf of the dog people what happens when the dogs get

2 (7m 35s):
It. I did see that in 2004 the remains of a domestic dog did test positive for H five oh days after it was eating a dead duck that was presumably infected with with the virus as well. So, and and I think it's important to mention here that animals that are getting infected by this are, are not necessarily passing it among each other but getting it from eating an infected bird or getting it from an infected bird so birds can spread it among each other. But we haven't seen as much animal to animal spread in other types of non bird wildlife.

0 (8m 7s):
I don't wanna panic, but how notable is it that this avian flu can infect mammals?

2 (8m 13s):
Yeah. Okay. So I don't think you should panic. We know that mammals can get infected by H five N one. We also know that humans can, and since the nineties, since it was first detected, the strain was first detected, several hundred humans have been infected by this virus and many of them have died that it can cause severe disease in humans. That is scary, but it's perhaps less scary than I just made it sound because H five N one and other types of avian flu are, are not well equipped to invade human bodies and to cause severe disease or to spread very easily among humans.

2 (8m 53s):
So it is important to to understand that avian flu is called avian flu for a reason. It is very good at targeting birds. It is not as good at targeting humans. And this comes back to this idea that different animals have a different makeup of of receptors on their cells that are entry points for different kinds of viruses. Birds have a lot of these receptors that H five N one can use to invade cells. Humans have some of those avian type receptors too, but they don't seem to be as much of a problem for us than they are for birds. So our physiology essentially means that we are a little bit better defended against H five N one than birds are.

2 (9m 34s):
And the people who have gotten sick and died are likely those who have exposed to enormous amounts of the virus. So it really takes a lot of the virus to infect a person. But that's really different than thinking about whether that virus can jump from one human to another through our breath or whatever. We're not seeing age five n one becoming contagious within humans at this point.

0 (9m 56s):
And so presumably the humans that are getting avian flu, these are not people who like passed a pigeon in Central Park? No. These are people who are working directly with poultry or other birds.

2 (10m 5s):
Exactly. So most cases where humans have contracted avian flu, including a recent one in the US from this current outbreak, were exposed to sick birds and to presumably a large number of them. So it takes a lot for this virus to actually infect humans and it would take a lot more for it to reach anything close to pandemic potential. I mean H five N one is not an immediate risk for humans. Like I think I can say that fairly confidently. So, so that's good news. What's also good news is that we have lots of tools to combat it. Should humans get infected? Should it become a bigger problem? And one of those is is vaccines. According to the cdc, the US already has a stockpile actually of H five N one vaccines.

2 (10m 49s):
And so while having vaccines doesn't necessarily mean that we're gonna be able to vaccinate people effectively, as we've learned from the covid pandemic, it means that we have tools at our disposal. And so that's great news that we kind of are prepared in a sense.

0 (11m 2s):
Okay, good. That's really good news. Can one vaccinate birds? How does that work? Do you like pick up a little wing and jab 'em?

2 (11m 10s):
Yeah, actually yes, there are flu vaccines for birds that are already approved and some countries are already vaccinating their birds. Some of them are doing this with a, a kind of like shot like injection. You can also do it by vaccinating the, the egg itself before the bird hatches and they're really effective as well. So we definitely have vaccines. But what's interesting is that the US does not use vaccines right now on its commercial flocks of birds for a number of reasons. One reason is that countries that vaccinate their poultry tend to be associated with countries that have a high risk of spreading avian influenza. And so it kind of closes them off to the global market.

2 (11m 49s):
So we export a lot of, of poultry and if we start vaccinating our birds, that might make it more difficult for us to export birds because buyers might think that means that we could spread avian influenza. And then there's also just the, the issue of cost. It's expensive to vaccinate a massive amount of birds and farmers might not have the resources to do that. It'd be probably better if you care about animals to, to find a solution. That doesn't mean killing a bunch of them. It might mean better surveillance trying to mainstream this idea of vaccines make it more popular. I mean we're seeing just these enormous numbers. It's sad for the birds, it's sad for us. So yeah, we've gotta do something here.

0 (12m 37s):
We've gotta do something here. Something must be done mostly about the chickens that's coming up next.

6 (12m 59s):
Hey y'all, this is Josh Mucci, host of the Pitch, a podcast from Vox Media on the pitch, real entrepreneurs pitch real tech investors for real money.

5 (13m 10s):
Are you gonna invest in this? I'm in, I'm in for 50 k.

6 (13m 14s):
Founders have raised over 10 million on our show from some legendary early stage investors. Several of these startups are worth hundreds of millions of dollars today and on our new season we're doing something a little crazy. We're gonna let listeners invest in the startups on our show alongside the investors, hear the next billion dollar idea way before anyone else.

5 (13m 40s):
We're building a 10 billion company get that's kind of sexy. Go make the money honey.

6 (13m 45s):
Follow the pitch right now to hear our best season yet our comeback season. New episodes start dropping weekly on February 8th.

0 (13m 57s):
Here's a question for you. How have apps like Tinder Hinge and Bumble affected our search for love, maybe even your search for love? In the new season of the show, land of the Giants called dating games, the Verge and the Cut are teaming up to uncover the secrets of the dating app industry and show what happens when your love life becomes their business. And indeed it does. In every episode they're talking to experts and industry leaders about how tech has affected our relationships. You'll learn the economics of the dating industry. You'll hear surprising stories of real people trying to find love on an app. Find out what it means when your romantic life is part of a company's bottom line. You can follow land of the giants wherever you listen. New episodes are out every Wednesday.

5 (14m 42s):
The Incredible Egg,

0 (14m 46s):
It's today explained. We are back talking about the spread of avian flu With us now is Tom Philpot. He's a senior research associate at the Center for a Livable Future at Johns Hopkins University. He's also a long-time food and agriculture reporter and he wrote a book called Perilous Bounty, the Looming Collapse of American Farming and How We Can Prevent It. Tom, we were talking to Vox, who's own Benji Jones earlier in the show and he was telling us that something has to be done. It seems like the something that has to be done is about chickens. What connections do you see between the way this flu is spreading and the way we're raising chickens?

7 (15m 21s):
So the vast majority of us egg production, this sort of eggs you buy in the grocery store, they tend to come from these huge facilities where a single barn can house as many as 200,000, 250,000 birds. There could be like 15 or 20 of these barns of that size kind of smushed together in one big facility. And so what you get is literally a millions of birds in close proximity. I mean you, you've got in a cage system, which is still the most common kind, you've got birds in these cages sticking their heads outta these little holes in their cages to get feed. You've got a situation where you've got lots of opportunity for viruses to mutate and you've got lots of opportunities for viruses to spread really fast in these facilities.

7 (16m 12s):
And so it's an extremely vulnerable system and it leaves us vulnerable to stuff like the current spike in egg prices.

0 (16m 22s):
How are the birds treated otherwise? Are they healthy?

7 (16m 25s):
To put up bluntly, they're treated like little machines for producing eggs. And so the, the whole game is to get them to produce, you know, something on order of 250 to 300 eggs per year. There's about a 5% mortality rate, I think on these big factory farms. So they tend to keep them alive and producing, but that's really the best you can say about it. They're not treated with any consideration of the naturalness, they don't get to do bird stuff.

0 (16m 56s):
You know, Tom, I would imagine, but tell me if I'm wrong. I would imagine that we've been raising chickens like this for a fairly long time. What has changed in the way we raised them that's making them more susceptible to avian flu?

7 (17m 9s):
If you go back about a century, you still had a situation of widely distributed egg production, lots and lots of backyard operations, small operations distributed across the country. There was a good amount of genetic diversity. So you know, different regions might specialize in specific varieties of of hens. And as we sort of scaled up as we them indoors and move to larger and larger facilities, something else happened where they start breeding birds for one thing and that is efficiency. And so you get this pretty robust genetic diversity narrowed down and there's this one variety called the white leghorn, which is the dominant variety used in US egg production.

7 (17m 53s):
And the problem with that is there's a natural, what people who study this kind of thing call firewall when you have a lot of genetic diversity. So a certain strain of flu will come in and you know, in fact some birds in, in certain areas of the country, but other birds will have a natural immunity to it. When you take away that diversity, what you get is a situation where you've got flu varieties that have this habitat of millions of birds of the same species. And so you get a very rapid spread and a very rapid ability to mutate. And I, I think that really is the biggest problem.

0 (18m 29s):
Let's say avian flu is lurking outside one of these facilities, right? How does it get in and then how does it spread?

7 (18m 36s):
That is a big mystery. There was a big outbreak, as you guys probably know in 2014, 2015, And the buzzword was, we've got a ramp up biosecurity. We've gotta be really careful about what comes into the facility. And so you've got protocols like workers who work in these facilities have to shower before they go in. They put on company clothes that have been washed since they last used and they really tried to control what comes in. They remember in 20 14, 20 15 there was this idea that it was coming in through feed. So you got a bunch of corn and soybeans and whatever else it is they put into feed that's gonna be attractive to wild birds.

7 (19m 17s):
Maybe some of them are infected, they come in, they deposit their waste in it, it gets into the feed and then it gets into the facility that way. You know, the other thing is to keep birds alive. In a situation where you've got 250,000 birds in one facility, you need a lot of ventilation. So you have a fan on one end, a second air in and a fan on another blowing air out. So you're taking in all this air, possibly there's wild birds close by and their waste is getting caught up in the wind. And so it seems likely that it's coming in through the air in these ventilation systems When they detect it, it is a major freak out.

7 (20m 5s):
It is time to coal, you know, kill essentially every bird in that flock.

0 (20m 9s):
The reason that the industry is freaking out is because avian flu spreads quickly and it doesn't stay contained in one barn, presumably it jumps and jumps and

7 (20m 18s):
Jumps. That's right. And it can get outta control really fast. And also it's, you know, it's not great for the industry's reputation. And you know what the real freak out would be is if this sort of avian flu, this really highly pathogenic avian flu got into the meat bird system. And that is also a very, very even more concentrated system of producing birds for chicken, mostly on the east coast and in the southeast region of the country. And if people are freaking out because a dozen eggs is now five bucks instead of two bucks, just imagine if, you know, we had a major outbreak in meat birds and suddenly a Popeye's chicken sandwich was 10 or 15 bucks in this current outbreak.

7 (21m 4s):
We've had a couple of incidences in that sector of the industry, but no one really knows why it hasn't hit yet. I can tell you, I remember talking to executives from the chicken industry in 2015 and they are also boosting their, you know, biosecurity, but you know, that hasn't worked for the egg industry. And so they, they are just worried that they're next.

0 (21m 28s):
Tom, where do we go from here? So Benji Jones tells us, you know, don't panic over avian flu and that's good, but then I hear you saying some things that really worry me.

7 (21m 38s):
Yeah, it's one of those annoying situations like climate change where we know these terrible impacts are coming and we're already starting to see them play out. But it's still hard to get people's attention And I, I think the, the box reporter is correct that this, you know, this current situation, you know, it too will pass this flu strain will burn out. The industry will declare itself all better. Things will go on as usual, but it's just setting us up for the next one. And so, you know, what I think is we're at an inflection point where we really need to decide what kind of food system that we have to have.

7 (22m 18s):
And I think that the way to change it and the way to make it less vulnerable to these shocks is gonna have to come through policy. I mean, I think consumer choice is important and consumers should think really hard about what they buy and things like, you know, supporting pasted egg production makes a lot of sense. But I think at the end of the day it's going to have to be a policy issue. And you know, something that's gonna be happening this year is that Congress is gonna be redoing the farm bill, which is this once every five years, sort of massive legislation that sort of sets up federal incentives for how people farm mostly in terms of crop agriculture like corn and soybeans.

7 (23m 3s):
And I think figuring out how to get policies in that move away from this long-term policy of cheap production of feed for animal production is gonna be really, really important. Unfortunately, I don't foresee major changes in this farm bill in any kind of positive way. That is to say anyway, this is a very consolidated industry. Small handfuls of companies dominate each part of the market and these companies, they're not stupid and they take a portion of the profits they capture and invest them in things like lobbying and donating to candidates and things like that.

7 (23m 43s):
They have a lot of friends on Capitol Hill. And I think getting over that challenge, you know, at the end of the day gonna have to be people power that does it. But you know, I've been following this industry for about 20 years and I've been through four or five farm bill cycles and you know, we haven't figured out the formula yet.

0 (24m 10s):
It was Tom Philpot from the Center for a Livable Future at Johns Hopkins. We also heard from Vox Environmental reporter Benji Jones. Today's episode was produced by Aha Artsy and edited by AM Saddi. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and it was engineered by Paul Robert Mosey. I'm Noel King, it's today explained.