2 (1s):
Let me tell you a story about an electric toothbrush that would love to be a part of your morning and your evening but not necessarily your afternoon because it thinks it's going to brush your teeth. So well that you won't even need to brush in the afternoon. It's called the clip electric toothbrush. It's available at get clipped.com / explains G. ET Q UI p.com / explained with a clip starts, which is 25 dollars in your first set of refills is free. Here's a by no means comprehensive list of the ways. The fight over Kashmir is complicated. China has a part of it called oxide chin Pakistan has a part of it called Azad Kashmir.

2 (41s):
India has a part of it called Jammu and Kashmir. All three countries have nuclear weapons all three disagree on who actually owns what and all three have gone to war over Kashmir and this week India decided to make things even more complicated. This is the deal when this one part of Kashmir decided to become part of India it did so with some serious exceptions. This is the territory known as Jammu and Kashmir.

2 (1m 22s):
These exceptions are baked into the Indian constitution article 370 gives Jammu and Kashmir all sorts of autonomy from Indian laws and article 35 a says that only Kashmir. He's can own land in Jammu and Kashmir. This has been the status quo almost as long as India's existed and this week India unilaterally decided, you know what let's not and he has government has made a

1 (1m 52s):
significant move to take Direct Control of the state of Kashmir. It will try to revoke a part of the Constitution which gives India's only Muslim majority State the right to run its own. There's uncertainty. I made a massive security build-up and the government advisory asking all pilgrims and tourists to leave Kashmir immediately mobile internet has been a blocked in many places and public meetings and rallies have been

2 (2m 14s):
banned in the days before the aid holiday. These streets are usually crowded with two wheelers rickshaws buses and commuters. But now the roads in India administered Kashmir are mostly empty except for Indian soldiers

1 (2m 34s):
on Monday, August 5th. The nature of Kashmir completely

2 (2m 38s):
changed man be Kapoor is a reporter at Quartz India. She spoke to me from New

1 (2m 43s):
Delhi. The government of India has repealed a section of the Indian constitution. It's called the article 370 and article 35 a these are two sections that pertain to the state of Jammu and Kashmir and basically Define its relationship with the country of India the nation-state Jammu and Kashmir had the right to have its own Constitution have its own flag create its own laws how its residents were called permanent residence, even though they had citizenship of India. What it does is that it takes that all of that away and puts just the Indian constitution in play so Germany, Me is no longer an independent state it now will be a union territory directly under the rule of the central government of India with the article 35.

1 (3m 35s):
Aegon. Non-cash. Mary's can be permitted to permanently settle in the state which was not the case before kashmiri women could not inherit property if they married out of Kashmir, this was basically done to maintain the demographic makeup of the state. The fear was that if Outsiders were allowed to settle in the only Muslim dominated state in India could perhaps be sidelined with the article 35 a gone. All of that is now

2 (4m 7s):
open and how big a game changer is this in the region

1 (4m 12s):
Jammu and Kashmir has been a disputed State since the British rule ended in India in 1947, and it has geopolitical each as the border with Pakistan. On one side and China on the other. So it is really the epicenter of all the Diplomatic Ties That India has with its neighbors for the people of Kashmir when a law like article 370 that basically gave it autonomy. It gave it the right to declare its own Constitution when that law was abolished the government probably anticipated a lot of backlash and hence.

1 (4m 53s):
There was a complete blackout in the state. There were no phones there was no internet. There was no cable TV, very few journalists were allowed inside the state Beyond a point prominent leaders including former Chief Ministers of the state were put under house arrest.

2 (5m 9s):
How are the people in Kashmir reacting to

1 (5m 12s):
this? So they have been very limited voices coming from Kashmir given the complete clamp down at the moment the people who manage to get out of Jammu and Kashmir or the few journalists in the valley who have been To report they have all spoken of a very daunting military presence check-posts monitoring movements every couple of kilometers Kashmir. He's and other parts of India and the world are anxious because they have not been able to reach their families back home. The rest of India. I would say a large majority of it is pleased with the decision to millcote. Jordan has a rupee a There are a small number of opposition leaders from parties like the Congress who have fiercely protested distance.

2 (6m 8s):
The home minister has to be concerned about this because by locking up but Democratic parties and their leaders, you're opening up a space for undemocratic forces,

1 (6m 19s):
but the bill to change article 370 rendering it toothless was passed in Parliament with a comfortable margin in both houses constitutional experts right now expect this move to be challenged in the Supreme Court through probably a public interest litigation, but that is yet to be seen.

2 (6m 42s):
And of course, I guess the elephant in the room is Pakistan has the Pakistani government spoken out about this.

1 (6m 50s):
Yes vocally so Pakistani prime minister. Imran Khan has been very vocal on Twitter as well as in the Pakistani Parliament, although glossolalia Kiki. I just don't get

2 (7m 3s):
a nuclear Black Milk around my Nuclear blackmail.

1 (7m 7s):
Linkara. Make Common Sense copy look around. Hope for the best

2 (7m 13s):
be prepared for the worst.

1 (7m 16s):
He has said that it is now time to end the long night of suffering for the people of occupied Kashmir that they must be allowed to exercise their right to self-determination. According to the United Nations security Council resolutions. And also Shahbaz Sharif is the president of the Pakistan Muslim League. He said that Kashmir is the jugular vein of Pakistan and anyone laying a hand on our jugular vein and honor will need a frightful end in the region that India calls Pakistan occupied Kashmir.

1 (7m 58s):
There have been public demonstrations against this move Pakistan also believes that it was not up to India to modify a space that is disputed Pakistan's stances that it is. International dispute and not up to India to

2 (8m 14s):
decide Why is this happening right now? It feels like such a complicated and controversial decision to make at such a delicate time between the two countries.

1 (8m 29s):
I would say that there are two major incidents from 2019 alone that have sort of led to this suddenly planned move. I would say the first is the attack on crpf forces in Kashmir. It will it happened in cashmeres pulwama region and it killed 40 soldiers. This had escalated tensions between India and Pakistan because India believed it was an attack orchestrated by terror camps within Pakistan Pakistan on its part denied. This India had led a targeted air strike operation earlier this year against these terror camps and an Indian Air Force officer was also captured by Pakistan.

1 (9m 14s):
He was later released. This was the first Incident after the elections in India in May and after the bharatiya janata party came back to Power the second flash point came in the form of the u.s. Presidents offer to mediate the Kashmir issue between India and Pakistan. I was with Prime Minister Modi two weeks ago. We talked about this subject and he actually said would you like to be a mediator or arbitrator? As I said, we're so Kashmir India vehemently denied these claims and it fervently turned down that offer experts say that India saw this as a diplomatic snub, especially when it considers Jammu and Kashmir in internal Affair and not an international one.

2 (10m 1s):
So what comes next is there going to be further escalation between two

1 (10m 4s):
countries so that fear always remains especially given that both India and Pakistan are nuclear-capable powers, of course one hopes that doesn't happen but India and Pakistan have gone to war before what happens next is a fear. That is I think growing day by day as of now in India. Both houses of Parliament have voted in favor of the bill. It will now be signed off to be turned into a law. The only thing that might stop it is if there is a public interest litigation in Supreme Court again that is yet to be seen

2 (10m 45s):
we covered this beef between India and Pakistan over Kashmir on the show earlier this year and our guest talked about religion nationalism identity. But what makes this land the so special

1 (10m 58s):
the other bone of contention between India and Pakistan is of course water.

2 (11m 6s):
This is

1 (11m 6s):
because there are six rivers that flow from India to Pakistan by a Kashmir and the Indus water treaty signed in 1960 between the two countries regulates. This Pakistan has often complained that India has been building dams across the rivers for hydropower. But India on its part cannot deprive the people of Kashmir of water or electricity. So it's a tricky situation but both countries have does far upheld this water treaty through three Wars. So it is an important peacekeeping instrument that would be in Jeopardy if an article 370 or a 35 a comes into question, it calls into question a lot of very very finely balanced equation in

2 (11m 60s):
Kashmir. the war for water next on today explained the quit people as I've mentioned want to be a part of your morning and evening brushes, but to me, that's kind of funny because I never brush my teeth in the evenings. I brush my teeth at night / midnight / like the next day early in the morning because part of my routine is like brushing really really late.

2 (12m 41s):
I can hardly keep my eyes open anymore late. Whatever your routine is. The quip wants to make sure you're Brushing in the morning. And before you go to bed and they want to be the toothbrush you use to do it because they've got a lot to offer they've got time to Sonic vibrations that offer an effective clean that's gentle on your sensitive gums in Just 2 minutes twice a day. They've got a lightweight compact design, which means you can bring your clip along with you wherever you go to make sure the clip is always part of your routine. They've got a website get clipped.com / explained you can even spell it out if you want G ET Q UI p.com Explained in the clip starts at just $25 there and your first set of refills is free.

2 (13m 24s):
Take a look won't you? Jeff Nesbit you wrote a book all about climate change called. This is the way the world ends and you focus on water. Could you help us understand why the water in Kashmir is so important sure. So let's actually take a giant step backwards to understand what's going on there. Maybe even go back in time for thousand years ago Once Upon a Time the Indus River Valley, which is broadly speaking all of the tributaries around the Indus River created a an immensely fertile civilization.

2 (14m 5s):
When the climate changed for thousand years ago and things happened that Civilization started to collapse. So this situation where the water comes down from the Himalayas and creates these river deltas that flow through India and Pakistan have been around for thousands of years, but in 1947, it really started to come to a head between the countries India and Pakistan as they were formed as independent countries. And right in the crosshairs was the Kashmir region at the heart of all of this is water. Water is at the heart of what Pakistan especially is concerned about but also what India is leaders are concerned about just look at the map and look at how centrally located the Kashmir region is at the Northern end of India and at the Northern end of Pakistan and the way in which the Indus River begins its track starting in Tibet and China Works its way through the Himalayas and then flows down into Pakistan into India.

2 (15m 5s):
Most of what Pakistani industry Pakistani Agriculture and even Pakistani citizens where they get their water from is from the Indus River tributaries, which begins its journey in the Himalayan Mountains. It goes right through the Kashmir region that India controls. Per your instructions. I pulled up a map and I looked up Kashmir and it's funny. It isn't exactly Minnesota or something. You don't see little lakes and bodies of water everywhere. All you really see is the river and maybe one other lake. Is there a ton of water there or is it just a very valuable River there is a ton of water an immense amount of water so much that the Indus actually breaks off into six different rivers and under the treaty that was actually brokered by the World Bank that both countries honor India, totally controls three of the major arteries that come off of that River Pakistan controls.

2 (16m 3s):
The other three that region is so fertile that most of the agriculture that supports Pakistan is actually right there because of there's so much water. It's what supports all of their cotton farming it supports all of their agriculture. That's even before it flows Downstream to get all the way to Karachi and supports the civilian population. So if India were to make a decision Abrogate the treaty or to build dams as China is building at the headwaters of the Indus. Pakistan would have no choice. They don't have anywhere else to go to get their water. And what about India? The truth is India actually also needs this water. Just take a look at Chennai.

2 (16m 43s):
It's a true cautionary tale right now what major cities in the world including Los Angeles including Beijing and others are up against the region is suffering a severe heat wave and seasonal Monsoon rains haven't arrived many reservoirs are almost empty. This is one of the four main ones in Chennai a city of around 11 million people.

1 (17m 4s):
This basically means piped water for drinking is available only once in three days people have resorted to buying water as these water tankers come at a hefty cost over 12 percent of India's population, which is hundred and sixty three million people of 1.3 billion live under what's called a zero conditions with no access to clean water near their home.

2 (17m 25s):
They've effectively run out of water and people are panicking in that City in some respects just like they were panicking and Cape Town when they felt like they were going to hit the day Zero and run out of water Jenai. Is a good example of what every major city that is facing water stress is likely to be up against at some point or another in the next 10 to 15 years. And I mean, well India and Pakistan are basically already in a cold war could there be an even greater escalation some kind of water War? I hate to say this but my prediction is there will probably be water wars there. They've been at the brink of a water War over the Kashmir region for four years and they've come right to the brink and several occasions with India threatening to just shut down the water treaty and take unilateral actions for which Pakistan would have no recourse other than to go to war with India over that so not only do I think it's likely that there will be water wars.

2 (18m 25s):
I think it's almost a certainty because if you look at the tropical countries in the subtropical countries around the band of the equator around the world, they're all already starting to experience water stresses. And in many countries water shortages, India and Pakistan and China in that region the world fall squarely into that mix where climate change is already. Having an impact and it's causing real problems in that part of the world. So you've got that stress. You've got the shrinking glaciers in the Himalayas and then you've got overuse of the river and pollution problems. All of that is creating a powder keg. That's that's not just a military Powder Keg but a natural resource Powder Keg, which is the guts of a water War India and Pakistan have not yet abandoned this treaty right just to be clear neither side seems to be ripping the thing up.

2 (19m 14s):
Correct there. India has come very very close on multiple occasions, but then when they come back to the table twice a year where the commission that administers the treaty looks at it, they don't actually pull the trigger. So to speak they've said so yet again in relation to you know, revoking article 370. They said we're going to look at the water treaty situation. So they haven't done that yet, but they've come so close so many times in my view. It's probably just a matter of time before they make their own self-determination case and decide now, We need to control the waters ourselves. If or when they do that. That's what triggers an actual water War these two countries present a particularly cataclysmic example because they don't get along famously because they both have nuclear weapons because they both have these bellicose leaders, but how many other situations like this are we currently facing across the planet we've already seen the first example of a true water war in Yemen.

2 (20m 16s):
Yemen is in that subtropical Zone where climate change is having impacts right now. They started to run out of water 14 of their 16 aquifers that supplied most of the water which is very arid country to begin with effectively went dry right about the same time. The Saudi Arabia is a kafir went dry. But in Yemen, everybody was studying it kept advising the Miniatures you're out of water and when you don't have water the government collapses you see Civil Society unrest you see food riots. Everybody was advising them you have to deal with the situation because otherwise the Warlords who control you know are at are hoarding this water. They'll be okay. But the rest of society won't two years later, that's exactly what happened.

2 (20m 60s):
It created a wave of refugees, right? Yeah, we covered that too. It's just bad news on bad news on bad news. Let me try to be a little bit helpful there. There was a really wonderful environmental so I don't come Mishra in India who died several years ago, but people should go and look at his Ted Talk where he talked about reclaiming water. There are a number of techniques to harvest rain. This is a new word. It's a new program, but for the desert Society, this is no program. This is their life. What Mishra talked about was India needs to go back to the way in which they reclaimed their water?

2 (21m 42s):
Whenever you have waterfall make sure you capture it and hold it and store it every city in America every city around the world. That's potentially looking at this water stress should follow that rule capture water reclaim it figure out a way to use it. Again. The other thing that you can do is what indigenous farmers in the Sahel countries started to reclaim the desert by when they would plant crops. They would put one tree in the center of their crops and then they would put catchments around that individual tree inside of their crop land and they would create this diverse plot of land with farming and with trees and lo and behold that part of the world became green again, because the water captured at the tree would then be available for the rest of the cropland and Greenery would come back so sort of the old ways of capturing water and using it wisely is We need to do in the short term in the long term because water scarcity is just going to continue and to get worse and worse over time over than over the coming decades.

2 (22m 42s):
We're probably going to have to figure out a cost efficient extremely cost efficient and effective way to turn salt water into fresh water because we've got tons of water on Earth. It's just not available for widespread use Jeff Nesbitt worked in the first Bush Administration as well as the National Science Foundation and the Food and Drug Administration. You can read about how the world might end in his book. It's called this is the way the world ends. I'm Shawn Rama's Ferrum. This is today explained.

2 (23m 24s):
Thanks again to the clip electric toothbrush company for supporting the show today the clip electric toothbrush people would like to be a part of your routine every day. They want to be with you through it all and they've got just the item. It's the quip electric toothbrush starts at just $25 first set of refills is free at get clipped.com explained that is GE T Q UI p.com explained