1 (4s):
Hey, I'm Sean Rama's firm. We're doing a new thing it today explain to coronavirus update to keep you on top of some of the biggest stories of the day. Here's what we have so far on Thursday, March 19th two days ago. I told you the United States had just crossed 5,000 cases now. Well over 10,000 people have officially tested positive for covet 19 including two members of Congress one from Florida and another from, Utah. Ah a new report from the CDC says Americans of all ages are getting seriously sick with covet 19 not just older adults older adults are at greater risk of dying but a 508 patients hospitalized Stateside who were studied 38% were between 20 and 54 and nearly half of the sickest patients were adults under 65.

1 (51s):
So be careful Millennials and be careful Boomers. The state department says that American citizens living abroad should get ready to come. Home or stay wherever they are for a long time. The timeline hasn't exactly been finalized. But even more travel restrictions are imminent Australia and New Zealand are shutting their doors to foreigners. India is banning all international flights into the country. And there have now been more Cove in 19 deaths in Italy than in China the death toll in Italy climbed over 3,400 today and meanwhile in China today for the first time in a long time. No new local infections were reported and a new study says that people people who became sick with Cove in 19 in Wuhan China had a lower death rate than previously thought 1.4 percent of those who got sick died instead of earlier estimates of to 23.4% You can write us with your coronavirus questions e-mail today explain to box.com or tweet at us.

1 (1m 49s):
The show is at today underscore explained. I'm a trauma surgeon

3 (2m 4s):
T-Mobile's the first and only Wireless company to offer Nationwide 5G covering over 200 million Americans and Counting. That's right. It's not just five genes select parts or select cities T-Mobile Nationwide 5G covers over 5,000 cities and towns and that's just the beginning indoor/outdoor. No signal goes farther or is more reliable than T-Mobile's 5G find out more about the First's largest and only Nationwide 5G Network at t - mobile.com. That's t - Cam capable device required coverage not available in some areas downlink. Only some uses may require certain plan or feature CT - mobile.com

1 (2m 51s):
Okay, I'm standing in a park in Northeast Washington DC. It's basically the first time I'm leaving the house to not go to the grocery store. And on my way here. I passed a dog that immediately stopped in its tracks and was practicing safe social distancing as far as I could tell and I thought hmm, maybe I could ask Brian Resnick vaux's science reporter to come to said park with me to explain social distancing because he lives very Close to me. It turns out in Washington DC and Brian here you are. Let me let me bring this microphone over to

2 (3m 27s):
you just to make sure everything's clear. We are as far away as recommended around six feet. I mean, you're the only person I've seen this week. So this is a joy. It's always a joy bride, even though there's still some distance between us,

1 (3m 48s):
you know, we've been getting a ton of questions about social. Distancing brine I wonder are there like golden rules to this game? Are there like the fundamental social distancing best practices? Is there a 10 commandments for social

2 (4m 2s):
distancing not Ten Commandments, but I do have five, you know, there's a thousand rules that you can think of or thousand situations like oh should I go to the grocery store when and like, but we're going to try to break it down into just like five big picture rules.

1 (4m 20s):
Okay, so let's do it. Let's let's go one by one starting with this is a biggie. Yeah commandment one. So I think the most

2 (4m 27s):
important commandment is the first one and it's it's your responsibility to not just protect yourself but to protect others, so that's the whole point of all this social distancing. We're not just keeping ourselves safe and well, we're keeping other people who we could spread this virus to say if and well so do you feel this

1 (4m 47s):
way because people aren't protecting others. They're just protecting themselves. You feel like a selfishness. Let's look around here. I mean, there's no one in this park but I certainly saw like kids playing on my way over here. Should they not be playing with each

2 (4m 60s):
other? So today? I saw I think CBS News got it in Miami like a bunch of Spring Breakers who are like all in their teens or early twenties talking about how like they didn't want to ruin their fun. But the thing is young people can get this disease and not necessarily get the worst symptoms or necessarily die in it from it and high number. But they can disproportionately spread it to some of the most vulnerable people among us. And so like the first commandment is about like this is a collective human virus. It's going to infect humans. You are human who can carry it and to spread it to someone. You don't want to be the cause of someone's death.

1 (5m 40s):
Okay commandant one protect others as you would thineself Brian commandment to

2 (5m 46s):
okay commandment to

1 (5m 48s):
is you have like a cute little Oscar speech

2 (5m 51s):
prepared. Therefore this I do because you know, this is important and actually, you know leave like put some thought into it's important to get this right. So I've written it down the second one is to obey or Public Health Department. So this one yes, there is a general recommendation or guideline from the federal government that we should not congregate in groups of 10 people. But depending on where you live and your situation and your city or state the situation could look very different for example in the Area people are being asked to shelter in place which basically means like don't leave the home under most conditions. If not necessary at all. So listen to your public health department or mayor's office or sometimes governor's office and remember to like the overall federal guideline is groups of 10 or more.

2 (6m 39s):
You should really avoid if en you know, and also like when in doubt like avoid if you like find yourself thinking I would do I really need to go see this person and if the answer is no like like there's just so much not known about this virus and also because testing hasn't been very good and widespread. We don't know where it is and unfortunately right now in this really uncertain period where it is starting to spread exponentially better safe than sorry, maybe a good place to start.

1 (7m 9s):
Okay commandment to obey thine Public Health Department, Brian

2 (7m 14s):
Resnick commandment three. Okay commandant three is if you feel sick any member of your Old feel sick or if you feel like you've been exposed to this virus, please stay home. Please quarantine yourself or if you're sick put yourself in isolation and do not touch or contact or go near people who are not sick

1 (7m 34s):
if you think thineself six self isolator quarantine, OK Brian commandment for

2 (7m 43s):
this is a big one too. Social distancing is a little bit of a misnomer. It's physical distancing. We're supposed to be physically apart from one another. Other but that doesn't mean we can't care about each other and check in on each other. So like social distancing does not mean emotional distance saying just not letting people Be Lonely by themselves, especially the older people who may not have a lot of Mobility to begin with and then even more isolated because you know, we're being told not to go near older people. So check in on them Brian. This is my favorite commandment yet. It's a good one. It's hopeful it's the most proactive. One we can help each other because isolation and loneliness is going to be a terrible problem for a lot of people who are already isolated and lonely and it's a going to be a tough time for a lot of people and just to check on them but not like physically check on them

1 (8m 40s):
commandment for my favorite yet not going to do God voice because I liked it so much Social distance is physical distance. Call your mom. Call your grandma if he's still got one. Keep in touch with your people. Oh Brian,

2 (8m 53s):
commandment 5 so commandment 5 is a simple one to you have to remember one number actually 5 is 6 because you're supposed to say six feet away from other people. This virus spreads by droplets that spread out of your mouth and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze and like six feet is like the splash sound. So if you can if you have to go out try to maintain six feet of distance between other people

1 (9m 17s):
Commandments 5 is actually commandment 6 feet. Away, and luckily my arm is extremely long and I'm staying six feet away as I hold this microphone in front of Brian Resnick.

2 (9m 29s):
I am trying my best to stay six feet away from you

1 (9m 32s):
and I will continue to do so after the break but you know first we got some messages for you.

3 (9m 39s):
You

2 (9m 41s):
need to stay six feet

3 (9m 44s):
away six feet away. You called me twice in a row. Road asking me out. I said let's stay in and I don't wanna be alone. So I need you to know I need you to know six feet away. Six feet away six feet away if you were my hands I would wash you like the sea.

3 (10m 51s):
CDC says you deserve and if you work around I would flatten your flatten your five six feet away six feet away.

1 (11m 26s):
I know this isn't the first time you've heard a song on our show, but this one's different because we want this song to bring people together in times of quarantine. We want you to participate you've heard no arms version of six feet away. Now, we want to hear yours record your own version of this song or if you're not musically inclined. There's a dance to you can find it over at vox.com / today - explained while you're there you can download the song and keep it share it user for reference while making your cover or doing your dance, but Are you do share stuff with the hashtag six feet away song again find the song of box.com today - explained shared on Twitter or Facebook or Instagram or wherever you share stuff with the hashtag six feet away sung.

1 (12m 11s):
Can't wait to hear and see what you do. If the Corona virus has you thinking about buying a house you're in luck because this episode is brought to you by fundrise the company working to build the best real estate investing experience ever big words, right? What a moment fundrise is an investment platform that gives people the ability to own a portfolio of high-quality real estate its kind of revolutionary because if you had to figure out how to start investing in real estate on your own be honest how well would you do with fun rides they've made the experience Easier than ever by using technology to lower costs improve return potential and create unprecedented transparency to get started.

1 (12m 54s):
You can visit fundrise.com slash explained or download the app on your telephone then within a few minutes, you'll be the proud owner of a balanced Diversified portfolio of serious real estate assets. All of which have been carefully vetted by the experienced fundrise team who know this stuff backwards and forwards. That's probably why more than a hundred thousand investors have already started in Fasting with fundrise check it out. Visit fundrise.com explained that's Fu ND R is c.com / explained and you have your first three months of fees waived right now. You cannot spell fun rides without fun. They didn't ask me to say that I just realized.

1 (13m 41s):
What would you do? If you had to figure out how to photograph something in deep space that nobody knows is really there and do you know who actually invented the first electric light bulb got a guess but I don't want to embarrass myself these questions and more get answered Auntie mystery the Mew original podcast from atlassian hosted by filmmaker and documentarian Gabriella cowperthwaite. Did I say it right cowperthwaite? I did turns out I take last name seriously because have you seen mine? Anyway team is Street looks past the front page headlines and into the untold stories crucial of teams behind some of history's most

3 (14m 22s):
groundbreaking moments. Each episode of

1 (14m 24s):
Team mystery examines the extraordinary Chemistry Between people on teams, like the seamstresses behind Apollo 11 space suits the true story behind Thomas

2 (14m 35s):
Edison's electric light system. That was my

3 (14m 37s):
guess about the lightbulb that guy

1 (14m 39s):
and the team who photographed a black hole for the first time listen to Team mystery and find out how teamwork can make the impossible possible download Team Stream app for free wherever you listen to your podcast new episodes are available every other Monday while I'm here. Shout out to the team who makes today explained. I think we pull off some miraculous stuff most of the time. Okay. Bye. Okay, Brian. We're back in the park. We actually never left but the show left us

2 (15m 13s):
a question. We keep

1 (15m 14s):
seeing over and over again is like can I have two people over for dinner? If you have two people over for dinner and the whole time you're eating dinner. You're somehow six feet away from each other because you have I don't know an expensive apartment or something. Is that okay or is that

2 (15m 29s):
foolish? I believe sharing food is like a big risk for communicating diseases among people. Yeah, so, you know because you're touching the Utensils the general rule right now. And unfortunately, there's just uncertainty testing hasn't been great. We don't know where this virus is. The general rule right now is that if you can avoid people it's probably the right thing to do, although you know, we'll know more soon. Hopefully that could make those decisions easier.

1 (16m 0s):
What about ordering food then like if I get takeout from my favorite restaurant that I still want to support in this time were restaurants are closing down. Down and laying people off. Could I get it from the noodles? Could I get it from the you know Pizza? Yeah, I think

2 (16m 17s):
getting delivery because the food itself will be you know, it's like hot and like viruses will be killed, you know, during the cooking process. What about sushi sushi? What about Susan? It's often called how you just really threw me there. Anyway, I have seen people getting deliveries where the delivery driver just like. Puts it on the front of their house. Like you don't like touch them. You don't go near them and then like once you get the delivery, I've seen it recommended that yeah, you could take the food out of its container. You can like wash the container, you know, like takeout food as an option.

1 (16m 53s):
Okay. So let's say you just go to the local grocery and just go to the local pharmacy. Are you still at risk of Contracting covet 19 in those situations because maybe someone touched that box of Cheerios before you did or maybe And had touch those tongs from which you selected some prepared foods, maybe grocery stores aren't even doing prepared foods as much anymore. But could you catch this from stuff you touch at the grocery store and should you be avoiding the pharmacy which you might need in times like these

2 (17m 25s):
obviously people need food people need their medicines. I mean, you can go out and get those things. It's like at least for most parts of the country like the order is not to shelter in place. Although like I said, you know remember that. Commandant listen to your public health department. And if they do not want you leaving your home that was

1 (17m 44s):
commandment to I believe.

2 (17m 46s):
Yeah. Yeah. So like see what your local situation is like but yeah, if you're going to the grocery store, or maybe it's not a good idea to if you see a huge crowd in there, maybe, you know go different time if you go to the pharmacy, see if they do delivery a lot do these days.

1 (18m 1s):
Okay, you wrote a story for vox.com recently saying that we might need to be practicing your five Commandments and abstaining from delivery and dinner parties and maybe only going to the grocery store and the pharmacy for a year,

2 (18m 17s):
maybe more please explain. Yeah, so I was talking to a bunch of epidemiologists this week about this and there's a new report out and I have to say it sucks like don't like these conversations. Did not make me feel good and I was kind of sorry to report on them. But the truth of the matter is that if social distancing works and this virus stops spreading as aggressively as a can if peoples don't seem to be dying and the numbers that we fear that means social distancing works. And then if you lift it this virus which can spread undetected for variety of reasons it Allowed there so you can't necessarily just declare an early Victory and make life.

2 (19m 7s):
Go back to normal in a few months. Even China and South Korea, which really do seem to be getting a handle on their situation through aggressive policies, including social distancing like they're not in the clear yet. It might take like a stepwise approach where we're going to have to see what the right balance is between letting our economy work at all and having people people live the

1 (19m 34s):
yeah. I mean, let me let me interrupt you for a second or two just reiterate that after a year. I mean these restaurants aren't just going to be taking the Hiatus. They might be done. Right? We might lose the things in our society that we most cherish if we do this for a year tell me more about the cost-benefit analysis

2 (19m 53s):
there. This is a terrible choice. Choosing between like our society or economy running people's livelihoods and hundreds of thousands of people potentially dying. It's a horrible Choice. It's choosing between

1 (20m 10s):
life and all the things that make your life rich, I

2 (20m 13s):
think about the things I love like going

1 (20m 15s):
to the movies going to see live music

2 (20m 17s):
supporting museums the theater and I will say all this can change. There's a lot of parameters of this virus that aren't completely well understood and once we understand them better, we could probably make less broad sweeping recommendations. It's the uncertainty and the potential of harm that makes these kind of

3 (20m 37s):
of

2 (20m 38s):
draconian seeing policies we need them because we just don't know but if there's a treatment that stops people from dying from this that changes the Outlook if there's a vaccine a year from now, you know that obviously changes it the more we learn about how this is transmitted from one person to the next like if we learn that oh, wow doesn't seem like kids are like really transmitting this virus very much then perhaps it's okay to reopen schools, but these projections are no joke like I think projection if we were do nothing and we are doing things like we're not doing nothing like Millions would die in this country and you know more around the world and then by doing things, you know, there's still a level of suffering and unfortunately death that will probably occur.

2 (21m 24s):
But you know, we're just going to need to find out what the balance is and in time at least what I'm hearing is like it's not going to be a few weeks. It might be a few months. I think it's okay to recognize like as all like upsetting last. For instance. I felt completely terrible but I couldn't go to a friend's funeral and like canceled plans and cancel tickets and you just like I knew like I know this as well as anyone the flatten the curve and you know, I've been reporting on this but still felt terrible and I still didn't want to like make the call to my friends and tell them like I wasn't going to be there. So I'm sorry about the funeral bride. It's okay. I'm like ultimately glad I didn't travel because like the day after was like the all the He and vacationers coming back and the did not seem like a good situation to be in.

2 (22m 13s):
I'm glad we had this time together, you know, this is like checking in on people. You can come by. You don't live that far away Shawn. You can come check in on me. I can wave to you from my window at least a kind of kind of need you to

1 (22m 26s):
come to my window. Come on inside wait by the Light of the Moon come to my window. I'll be home soon.

2 (22m 43s):
I don't I'm not singing. All right. I think those were the

1 (22m 48s):
lyrics this is Shawn Rama's Furman Brian Resnick reporting from a park in Northeast, Washington DC practice social distancing it's worth

2 (22m 58s):
it. But that's the bottom line. You got it.