3 (4s):
It's Thursday April 9th 2020 in the weather in DC is really turning so I'm going to do this part of the show from outside. I'm Sean Rama's forum. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained. Dr. Anthony fauci finally had some half-decent news for the United States today emphasis on the half. He's saying it looks like the u.s. Death toll could be 60,000 instead of a hundred thousand or two hundred thousand. Thanks to social distancing that is of course still a very staggering amount of death 799 people died in New York City since yesterday the death toll in the city is now over twice the number who died on 9/11 new research suggests that this coronavirus started spreading in New York City as Is mid-February that was weeks before the first confirmed case that research also suggests that the virus spread mainly from Europe not Asia, apparently Europe and the United States are outbidding Latin American and African nations for medical supplies, like masks and tests.

3 (1m 4s):
That means countries without enough ICU beds also won't have enough tests and masks and that news comes as Oxfam says around half a billion people could be pushed into poverty as a result of this. Pandemic the eight organizations asking richer countries to take urgent action to help nations in need. But of course that picture is a little topsy-turvy right now. We got new jobs numbers today in the United States and other 6.6 million Americans filed for unemployment insurance last week that's on top of the 10 million in the previous two weeks ten percent of the labor force is out of work and economists. Say we're facing the worst jobless rate since the Great Depression meanwhile.

3 (1m 48s):
Congress is fighting over additional stimulus. Good news for Boris Johnson. According to a Downing Street. Spokesperson. Bojo is out of intensive care. He's now receiving somewhat less intensive care in hospital as they say over there and something to soothe all the baseball fans out there. The season was supposed to kick off two weeks ago today, but then of course all this happened but whether or not you love or hate the Red Sox Fenway Park's organist is still putting in work for you Josh Cantor has In streaming a seventh inning stretch from his living room in Cambridge on Facebook. He told the Washington Post. He'll be doing it every day at 3 p.m. Eastern until baseball returns or people stop streaming it.

3 (2m 32s):
Um, here we go stand and stretch and we change

1 (2m 36s):
one of the lyrics we don't say I don't care if I ever get back we say I do care if I ever get back

3 (2m 41s):
because good Lord. Do we want to get back to baseball and baseball games? Here we go.

3 (3m 21s):
Hooray, thank you. My dad's a Hindu and my mom's a Catholic so my brother and I were raised Catholic and this was always a big week for the Catholics even bigger than Christmas in a way. You've got Palm Sunday. Today's Holy Thursday. Tomorrow is Good Friday. Sunday's Easter. There's lots of church some fasting followed by some feasting lots of chocolate. If you're lucky Passover also began at sundown Wednesday time to read the Haggadah drink wine and eat matzah at seder if you're Muslim Ramadan is around the corner.

3 (4m 6s):
These are some holy holy days for billions and billions of people around the world more than half the planets population, but this year they can't get together and worship

1 (4m 17s):
in some places. We found that religious communities have actively helped spread this virus when they gather together in large groups,

3 (4m 25s):
Jack Jenkins has been reporting on how the major faiths have been coping with covid-19 for Religion News service.

1 (4m 32s):
You know it one of the biggest early examples was actually in South Korea there was a religious group there that early on was traced to the spread of the virus. The

3 (4m 43s):
church itself says that it is cooperating fully. It's provided contact details of all of its members so that the authorities can follow up and health officials can check with them to see if they are carrying the virus has these numbers continue to

1 (4m 57s):
spike but in actually it led to the Government testing all 200,000 members of that religious tradition because they could trace it back. To their worship services, but then here in the United States we've seen similar things as well in the County of Sacramento actually a third of at the time when they reported the source of 300 odd cases of coronavirus in that county and a third of them were attributed not only to Faith communities in general but most of that third to one specific Faith Community in the region the church movement services online weeks ago. So the problem hasn't been people congregating here, but at other people's homes for service. So we had another instance in North Carolina were multiple cases of the coronavirus were traced back to one Gathering that one Church helped lead and in Washington state although this church choir practiced social distancing two

3 (5m 50s):
people are dead and dozens more sick the grouper Hurst right before the health department recommended no large gatherings

1 (5m 57s):
in New York City their suspicions that early on Purim Services among Jews who were very careful by the way, really, you know, there was a lot of anxiety. Whether they should have even held those services and they went they call the authorities who actually gave him the green light to do it. There's a lot of you know, looking back 20/20 hindsight thinking that that actually led to the spread of the virus in New York City as well. And so we see a lot of these pockets of outbreaks of the virus across the country, you know rooted in religious communities and from the perspective of many health professionals that make sense this the virus spreads when there's lots of people gathered in the same

3 (6m 33s):
space. So how is the United States attempted to deal with This I know it's a patchwork throughout the country. But where you have shelter in place locked down tight measures. Do you have exceptions for religious services or are they included

1 (6m 49s):
this is an interesting question and it's one that has come up a lot recently because it's you know, all these Governors are issuing these new shelter in place or stay-at-home orders and some of them some of the earliest ones explicitly, you know outlawed religious Services alongside. Any other large Gathering But as time has rolled on we've started to see some of these Governors either issue stay-at-home orders that exempt religious services or even retroactively redesignate Faith groups as quote unquote essential Services now back here in Kansas lawmakers have reversed an order by the governor that restricted Church

3 (7m 26s):
Gatherings. Most of them are already planning to stay home and pray together and watch services online. They just felt like it was a violation of their constitutional rights. To have the government tell them that they cannot participate in a church service

1 (7m 40s):
in there have been a couple of polls. Now that show roughly 12% of Faith communities are continuing to gather in person as of a week a week and a half ago. We don't have the latest data on that, you know in some states you can still have a church service or go to a synagogue but you need to do it with 10 people are less and those seem to be carve-outs for a specific small religious ceremonies, whether that's you know, a baptism or something of that nature where everyone in the church would also have to Stand six feet from each other. So you're kind of seeing of really hodgepodge reproach to all of this and then above all of that is the White House, which was really slow to address this issue early on vice-president pins.

3 (8m 20s):
People were still going to church. What's your message to folks still heading outside of their home to go to church services? Well for Karen and

1 (8m 29s):
I and I know the president we've been enjoying worship services online, but they didn't actually come down on it until very recently last week. Vice president Pence did finally answer a question about this. We really believe this is a time when people should avoid

3 (8m 48s):
Gatherings of more than 10 people and and so we continue to

1 (8m 53s):
urge

3 (8m 55s):
churches around America. He do that. Are you seeing religious leaders rebel against these stay-at-home orders against the administration against their own clergy? Yes.

1 (9m 7s):
We're actually seeing several points of

3 (9m 9s):
tension here.

1 (9m 12s):
The two most dramatic examples came up last week where we had the arrest of a pastor in Florida and a pastor in Louisiana who had continued to defy local authorities and gather in large groups of hundreds or in the case of the had a pastor as many as a thousand people gathered together in one place just hours after Pastor Tony spell of Life Tabernacle Church in central was charged with six misdemeanor counts of disobeying the powers of the governor. Tuesday service was still on schedule.

3 (9m 42s):
This is an affront and attack on all Christians across the world and my entire congregation stands in solidarity with me as their Shepherd. We had an emotional time had water baptisms and a lot of people saved. I do find it a Florida Pastor arrested for openly blatantly violating a ban on large Gatherings continuing to hold Sunday church services. You can see how it brown preaching to a room full of people many of them shoulder to shoulder in total disregard of the cdc's six feet. Social distancing guidelines fish not I'm bound and virus is about the church being a essential service to the community since

1 (10m 25s):
those arrests occurred the State of Florida has now, you know said that religious gatherings are exempt from their stay-at-home order and even the county in which that Florida Pastor, you know was was gathering his church. They've also issued an order saying that religious communities are exempt. None of those orders are retroactive. So that Pastor is still going to face charges of endangering public health for continuing to gather amidst this pandemic. And so there has been some tension between these Faith groups and ruling authorities across the country

3 (10m 56s):
he refused. Repeated requests the please don't put or 500 people in danger to where they then go home and put thousands more in danger with the possible spread of this covid-19 virus when you close every door in this city will close this door and we'll go underground but we are going to assemble and congregate as God-fearing Christians. What is it that prevents these religious leaders from just adhering to these stay-at-home orders to the guidance from the White House? Even

1 (11m 32s):
you get people who say that, you know God protects them if they they continue to worship or you get people who argue that it's just simply part of their religious liberty and for a lot of these communities there is this concern that if you take me from my house of worship, you're really taking away a lot of the reason and and the ability for me to exist in Society as I have known

3 (11m 54s):
it. My name is Robin Freeman and I live in Southern California in Orange County and I was up visiting my parents in Westlake Village Thousand Oaks during this quarantine time and attended church with them at Calvary Chapel. God speak Palm Sunday. When I pulled up the church, you know, I pulled up and all of a sudden I saw these news reporters and this one guy with a sign and he had said fake Christians on it and I decided to see that people were protesting this when they think you know, it's fine to go to the supermarket and get stuff.

3 (12m 37s):
I went to Target last week and the checkout lady. She was like coffee on her hands and then she would, you know take my groceries and scanning them and touching them and it's like that. Okay, but people at church that are doing a great job of practicing social distancing. That's not okay. Like that's where I have trouble with that. What they did that day at the church. It wasn't in lieu of church service. It was you could just come take communion and then go back home. So they weren't trying to gather masses of people together and spread the disease or anything. Like they took every single precaution necessary.

3 (13m 18s):
Every single employee was wearing a mask and gloves. Like everyone was 6 feet apart from each other or more, you know, all the juice and the bread they were going to be just packaged like there was absolutely Contact with anybody hear anything, you know, so yes, even though they violated the governor's orders. Like I wasn't fearful at all because of that and I just, you know think it's a Believer. It's just important to take part in that Sacrament. I definitely miss not being able to go to church every Sunday because that's always very safe place for me and is a place where I can come and kind of get rejuvenated for the week. And you know, it's wonderful thing friends at church and I think a A lot of people are just very fearful right now.

3 (14m 0s):
I'm just, you know have no idea what's going on. And while I have no answers for how long he's going to last. You know, I just able to trust that God is in control and he knows what he's doing and I do trust that he's going to bring an end to this. I haven't loved being quarantined at all. Like I miss getting together with friends at having my normal routine and going to work and going to CrossFit and church and yeah, but I really feel like my face has just allowed me to stay. Last year during this time and distribute the God. I just thank God for allowing me to not these were fearful during this time. After the break all the ways people are worshipping without breaking the law right now.

3 (14m 53s):
This episode is brought to you by greats greats make classic stylish sneakers that are ready to be worn. Wherever the day takes you who knows to the couch to the kitchen to the bathroom. Maybe one day even outside greats is a brooklyn-based sneaker brand in case you were wondering they've been making sneakers for men and women since 2014 and given people that little junice a coma for their fit greats sources really good materials. They work with responsible factories that maintain the highwomen. Best environmental and labor standards to craft premium quality Footwear. And right now they're donating $15 from every purchase to City Harvest, which is New York City's largest food rescue Organization for covid-19 Relief $15 from every pair of shoes to learn more about grates and see their styles of sneakers go to greats.com and use the code explained for $20 off at checkout.

3 (15m 46s):
That is grea t s.com and the promo code is explained. Hey, it's Kara Swisher. You may know me as the only person who looks cool wearing sunglasses indoors. But in my spare time, I host a podcast called Rico decode every week. We talk about power change in the people. You need to know around Tech and Beyond some of my recent guests include Edward Snowden Megan Rapinoe and the cast of The L Word which was a huge thrill for me. If any of these sound interesting

1 (16m 17s):
to you, you should listen them now on

3 (16m 19s):
Rico decode subscribe to the show for free on Apple podcast or in your favorite podcast app to be the first to hear new interviews every. weak Okay, Jack, we've established a few things here. It's a very holy time for a number of religions and handful of religious leaders are breaking the law. But most of them are complying and a lot of them are innovating to let's talk about some of that. What are followers of Christ up to on this very Holy

1 (16m 49s):
Week one of the big images that's come out of the pandemic in generals this image of Pope Francis offering a blessing in an empty safe Peter's square and empty Vatican City. I'm a couple of weeks ago.

3 (17m 3s):
Yeah Momiji to We pray for the deceased for those who lost their lives because of the virus in a special way at like us to pray for the health of workers that are dead recently. They donated their lives to serve the sick people and

1 (17m 17s):
apparently that is also the plan for Holy Week. He will continue to observe all of the rituals of Catholicism in st. Peter's Basilica at the Vatican while basically alone like when he was observing Palm Sunday this past weekend, you know, he was basically In this gorgeous church, that's normally filled with parishioners and completely empty. Although I will note that his message in the midst of that aloneness was for him to declare do not be afraid. You are not alone

3 (17m 49s):
or actual happy corium yamori. Sin, Ti the constellation Leo Katie sistina.

1 (18m 0s):
Meanwhile, you have your these very different approaches to liturgy and worship among Protestants across the country in the here in the United States. So if you are a part of a small Church, they hold Zoom meetings where you show up to worship and this past Sunday, you know, people would waive their palm fronds into their computer cameras as worship began. Then when it came time for Eucharist or communion during the course of the worship you had particularly in the Presbyterian tradition where the authorities have spoken out and said this is okay each person brought their own elements to the table where they had their laptop or their iPad and when they said you now it's time for us to break bread together people picked up their donuts or their bagels and broke them and then drink their coffee as if that were the wine all while looking into the camera together.

1 (18m 49s):
Wow, I mean as someone who was raised

3 (18m 51s):
Catholic that actually sounds like an improvement.

1 (18m 53s):
Aunt I will say that I have I have heard many reports that the bread has become significantly more delicious when it's in Krispy Kreme donut

3 (19m 1s):
farm, they finally figured

1 (19m 4s):
it out exactly and so you so there's that kind of creativity that's being built into this you're also seeing a lot of worship Services again go online and you're also seeing that in Judaism as well, you know, people will have multiple Traditions have now embraced the idea of you know, kind of this virtual Theater where while people can't Gather in person they can, you know again get on Zoom you've had different Jewish authorities create principal who God has designed so that these are like the order of worship for a Passover seder the union of Reform Judaism created a guide for creative ways to get online and get involved.

1 (19m 53s):
Helping people be able to gather

3 (19m 55s):
together not convinced. This is the holiday of all of the holidays in the in the year that most Jews are most likely to observe and that's because at the heart of this holiday is really a story of hope. It's a story of our people who moved from enslavement to freedom from anguish into a place of joy, and that's a story that I think we need perhaps more than ever before this year.

1 (20m 18s):
No word on whether or not you'll have like an empty Zoom window for Elijah. There's like a lot of questions. About how this will be expressed for different Jewish communities, but alongside that are groups like say the ultra-orthodox who are not embracing technology and instead having more analog approaches to this. You've had Orthodox leaders here in the United States, you know outline very stringent and strict rules for how people can engage with satyrs basically saying if you're going to invite anyone outside your immediate family into your home for Passover, it has to be someone who absolutely is unable to repair a set of a Passover seder. Otherwise, they have to ruin undergo a two-week quarantine in advance before showing up to the Seder and they must maintain social distancing when they come in and they can't exhibit any symptoms of the virus when they appear.

1 (21m 19s):
And then in the meantime, you have Muslim Traditions, you know who were kind of slowly going into this Ramadan season and and that's a little bit different because there's actually been a lot of conversation about how the jummah prayer the Friday prayers that normally happen weekly for many Muslims. It's actually not okay for a The most Muslim authorities to have a virtual version of that it tradition often argue is that you have to have a certain number of people physically present for that scenario. And while there have been some conversations among the Islamic scholars about the possibility of trying to you know, try to do a virtual jummah prayer. The reality there is that most of the authorities at this point are saying you're just going to have to you know fast from this for now and kind of do these back up prayers for lack of a better term that often happen when someone can't physically attend a jummah prayer Are

3 (22m 9s):
as Muslims we believe that our public health and our bodies have a right over us and that oversees the necessity of rituals that we have to do. So in this case, we thought that the best thing was to not have Services because when you're having you know hundreds of people come in for prayer, you just need that one person who is sick to contaminate everybody else and we did not want to be the breeding ground for that.

1 (22m 32s):
It doesn't super impact Ramadan in terms of fasting because it's already on the books that if you're ill Or traveling the rules are amended for you during that time period but it certainly keeping a lot of Muslims from gathering together in a way that they would

3 (22m 47s):
prefer what about people who don't have maybe the technology to attend virtual Mass who maybe don't have a laptop with zoom capability or who don't have an iPad or who have you know phones with bad reception and lag a lot what are people who don't have the means to sort of update to this new normal. Do

1 (23m 10s):
this is a big and serious question for a lot of communities and in some communities. It's notable that you would think would have a hard time with this are not apparently for instance. The Amish are taking this pandemic very seriously, and we now have, you know, drive through testing facilities that the Amish show up to in horse and buggy, but in general, you know, it's actually it's a big unanswered question that a lot of people are figuring out on the ground and a lot of faith leaders are really struggling with right now

3 (23m 36s):
if they actually get there They get to that seder if they get to that Friday prayer or that Sunday service. Do you know what leaders are saying right now about why this is happening. I mean, what's the answer to like? Why would God let this happen?

1 (23m 56s):
Right the some people have made really dark arguments that this is the result of the sins of humankind Etc. Most are taking a very different tact, you know, these people are preaching about how this is a difficult time just as there have been in many difficult times throughout history and then they say the second thing which is that while Faith isn't always able to answer a give a firm answer to the question of why would a pandemic sweep the globe Fates are arguably built for crisis. I mean, this is where they are often at their strongest and their boldest is in the midst of any sort of disaster or in this instance a Health crisis. Many rabbis are referencing the Past Times that Jews have encountered pandemics.

1 (24m 39s):
So have many Christians and again, I will go back to that image of Pope Francis speaking alone in a church talking to a flock of a billion people and saying You Are Not

3 (24m 50s):
Alone what actual happy Korean meal morning? Sent it, I that consolidation is Geo. Did he sustain

1 (25m 9s):
they already knew that it's just helpful to be reminded in the midst of a crisis that even if they're clustered in their own homes and not within the physical walls of a mosque or a church or a synagogue. They are connected to their community and that is the kind of spiritual connection. Religion

3 (25m 26s):
forges Jack Jenkins is a national reporter for Religion News service. And he's now an author to he's got a new book If you're looking for something to read it's called American prophets the religious roots of progressive politics and the ongoing fight for the soul of the country. What a title I'm Sean Rama's from this is today explained.