0 (1s):
For all of the bad news in the world right now, and there's a lot of it. The results of Poland's Parliamentary elections over the weekend were really good news for democracy.

1 (12s):
Poland won, democracy has won. We have removed them from power.

0 (16s):
Donald Tusk is the head of the opposition, which got enough votes to prevent the ruling law and justice party from continuing to rule.

1 (24s):
This is one of the most beautiful days of Poland's democracy, and I have no doubt that this day will go down in our history as a day that opens a new era. And the rebirth of our republic

0 (35s):
Law and justice is a nationalist populist party with authoritarian tendencies and its undermined poland's democratic institutions since coming to power in 2015. Many people expected it to keep doing that, but these election results indicate that Polish voters have had enough Coming up. On today explained what this all means for Poland and for the rest of Europe. It's today explained I'm Noel King v's. Senior foreign correspondent. Jen Kirby traveled to Warsaw for the Polish elections. Now these were elections that many people in Poland and outside of Poland said were the most important in a generation.

3 (1m 25s):
The line that I heard over and over again was that this was the most important election since 1989 when Poland had its first partly free election in the aftermath of communism. The current ruling party, which is a conservative right wing populist party called the Law and Justice Party, or Peace, that's the acronym p i s. They have been in power for eight years and in that time they have overseen the undermining of the rule of law and democratic institutions in Poland

4 (1m 56s):
Since last eight years. What's happened was destroying the democracy and nowadays democracies are dying silently. So we don't need tanks on the street to see it. And that's why it's very dangerous. They've

3 (2m 11s):
Entrenched themselves, most notably in the judiciary, putting in, you know, judges who would be favorable to their perspectives and point of views. They've also taken control of public media and really made it a mouthpiece of the state. And they've done other things in terms of capturing state institutions that have really consolidated their power. And so Poland has been on this pathway to having in a liberal democracy, and a lot of people felt if the Law Justice Party won another term, that that would be the end. That there would be no going back, that the next time the opposition wouldn't even have a shot because the party in power would skew the field so heavily that that would be the end.

0 (2m 54s):
You went around Warsaw talking to people, in addition to some of them saying, we are concerned about the fate of our democracy. What were the issues?

3 (3m 4s):
Yeah, so it was really interesting. The economy was definitely a big one on people's mind and also healthcare, which was sort of something I wasn't necessarily expecting. You know, in Poland right now, the cost of living is a really, really big issue. It has some of the highest inflation in all of Europe and it sort of creates a lot of pressure on especially working class people. And we heard a lot of that in some of the neighborhoods of Warsaw.

5 (3m 27s):
I dream about Poland that they will take care of young people for sure. They will take care of the workers, they will take care of the housing crisis.

3 (3m 35s):
You know, I will say the thing that was most interesting to me was in Poland, as we know, they took in over a million Ukrainian refugees after

6 (3m 43s):
The war begun. Poland welcomed Ukrainians, fleeing the war and treated them as guests.

3 (3m 49s):
So pretty much everywhere you go you run into somebody who is from Ukraine. And a lot of the Ukrainian refugees were probably the most supportive of the current government because they were really grateful for what they had done in terms of welcoming Ukrainians and standing up for Ukraine in the very start of the war. And of course they couldn't vote. but it was interesting because the ruling party itself was kind of picking a fight with Ukraine.

7 (4m 15s):
Poland has suggested that it will no longer provide weapons to Ukraine. Prime Minister Mattea sch Moki made the comments after days of antagonistic statements between the two countries. And

3 (4m 26s):
I would say the other interesting thing was that a lot of people were voting for fringe parties. And so we saw a lot of people voting for folks who were not necessarily the top two big parties. They were looking for kind of a change. And I think when you've had a party in power for eight years, but also the opposition, which is led by Donald Tusk, who was the former Prime minister before the law and justice party took over, people were eager to have new face.

0 (4m 53s):
So you are hearing from voters what they care about. Was there anything that you thought voters might care about? Anything that you thought you'd hear a great deal about that you just didn't?

3 (5m 3s):
Yeah, absolutely. So one of the big things that we thought we would hear about was migration because you know, the Law and Justice Party is a super nationalistic party. If

8 (5m 12s):
We are accepting someone from outside at the cost of our basis, cultural basis, this is disaster.

3 (5m 18s):
They often pick fights with the European Union on the issue of migration. And one of the things they did to try to motivate their voters in this poll was to kind of create this referendum where they were asking really leading questions. And one of them was essentially

9 (5m 35s):
The question asks, do you support the admission of thousands of illegal immigrants from the Middle East and Africa in accordance with the forced relocation mechanism imposed by the European bureaucracy?

3 (5m 47s):
An extraordinarily loaded question that was designed to sort of gin up xenophobia within the Law and Justice party's base. This

10 (5m 55s):
Is gonna put Prime Minister Mov Vichi on a huge collision course with the European Union. I dunno if you've seen the video, but it's, it's quite spicy. The video shows scenes of streets burning. This is put out by the Polish Prime Minister pushing towards this referendum. But what,

3 (6m 14s):
And we didn't hear anyone on the street really talk about that. We heard one person criticize European bureaucrats in part 'cause Donald Tous himself is, the other thing I thought I might hear about was Catholic Family Values the ruling party, the Law and Justice Party, they kind of have a populous economic agenda, but they're very socially conservative and they've waged the kind of culture wars against L G B T Q groups. You know, the the woke culture wars, so to speak,

11 (6m 41s):
Under law and Justices mandates. Poland had restricted abortion and L G B T Q rights as well as distancing itself from the European Union

0 (6m 49s):
Going into this election. What did many analysts and many Polish people think was going to happen? Everybody

3 (6m 57s):
Knew that the election was gonna be pretty close

12 (7m 0s):
Ahead of a heavily contested election. The country has seen its most aggressive campaign since it became a democracy 32 years ago. A country long seen as an example of democracy after decades of communism is now deeply divided.

3 (7m 16s):
And of course, you know, as many people said to me that I spoke to in Warsaw, you know, this election is gonna be free and that, you know, people will be able to vote and that vote will count, but it's not going to be fair. The Law and justice party in their time and power has really kind of skewed the playing field. For example, they put more polling stations in rural areas where they have a lot more of their own base, and so they're trying to cater to them and get more of their voters out to the polls. Meanwhile, there was a record number of polls abroad who've registered to vote some 600,000 and all those votes, which tend to favor the opposition, had to be counted in 24 hours or they were disqualified.

3 (7m 58s):
So you see these little tweaks to the system that is designed to give the law and justice party a little bit of an edge. What

0 (8m 4s):
Ended up happening? Yeah,

3 (8m 6s):
So the opposition won. Basically there was record turnout in Poland about 73%, and essentially the opposition coalitions won and they didn't quite have enough votes to form a government on their own. But if you take in all these other smaller opposition coalitions from the center from the left, they do have enough votes potentially to form a government

9 (8m 28s):
Opposition leader. And former EU council president Donald Tusk hailed it as a victory.

14 (8m 38s):
I want to thank thousands of Polish men and women who are sitting in polling stations and making sure that no one tries anything. This result speaks for itself. No one will cheat this. No one will take this away from us. We want democracy, we want freedom. We won our beloved Poland again.

3 (8m 56s):
The problem is the law and justice party has won singularly the most votes, but not enough to form a government on their own. So the question is, could they maybe find a partner if doesn seem likely based on the math? And so the normal course of things would really to just have the opposition form a government. However, it is possible because the law and justice party has again, presided over in a liberal democracy that they may try to do something to make it very, very difficult for the opposition to form a government to take power. We don't know what that might be and we don't know where things are going. But that is a fear that you're starting to hear from some democratic activists, even as they're celebrating what is a really huge and amazing victory for them and their cause

9 (9m 42s):
For those polls who want to see their country returning to the center ground and repair relationships with close allies across Europe and the eu. This is a good night.

0 (9m 53s):
How did they pull it off? How did the opposition actually get this win or this this close to a win?

3 (9m 58s):
I think it was a combination of factors. They were very united and they really tried to lean into the idea that this was as existential. This is the last chance elections to keep democracy in Poland. And then I think there were some other factors that maybe they didn't necessarily do that helped them out. One again is the economy is not great and so you have just support for a law and justice party flagging. You have a party in power for eight years, you get a little sick of them. And then I would say the third factor was the rise of this very radical kind of chaotic party called the Confederation, which is far right, but is much more kind of weird. It includes, you know, anti-vaxxers and conspiracy theorists and, and they were attracting, especially young voters who are really disillusioned with the political system.

3 (10m 51s):
I think the big takeaway is that it is possible in an even backsliding democracy for the opposition for the, you know, defenders of democracy to win an election. And that even when election is not necessarily fair, but it is free, it is possible for democracy to win.

0 (11m 25s):
That was Jen Kirby. She's a senior foreign correspondent at Vox. Coming up. Poland is not the only country in Europe that took an authoritarian turn in the last several years. You might remember our adventures in Hungary last year, but now that Poland has taken a step back, what about the other European nations

Indeed (11m 49s):
Support For the show already comes from Indeed. They say good things come to those who wait. But maybe you've tried that already and it's time to get proactive. Well, if you're hiring, you don't have to wait around for that perfect candidate Indeed wants to help bring them to you. Indeed is a hiring platform where you can attract, interview and hire all in one place instead of spending hours switching between multiple job sites. Searching for candidates with the right skills indeed can help you streamline your process by finding the right people for you. Here's how it works. You post an open role and indeed immediately shows you candidates whose resumes fit your description so you can hire faster. Plus you only pay for applications that meet your must have requirements. you can start hiring now with a $75 sponsored job credit to upgrade your job. Post at indeed.com/today. Explain offer good for a limited time. Listeners can claim their $75 credit now at indeed.com/today explained. That's indeed.com/today. Explained terms and conditions apply

15 (12m 56s):
bro

Shopify (13m 1s):
Support for today. Explained today comes from Shopify. If you wanna sell stuff, maybe you're just starting to think about setting up that online store, or maybe you've already conquered the vintage, an maniac Snow Globe market and you're now like a full on snow globe Baron Shopify might be able to help you out. Shopify is a global commerce platform that helps you sell at every stage of your business from their all in one e-commerce platform to their in-person point of sale system. Wherever and whatever you're selling, Shopify's got something that might work for you. you can sign up for a $1 per month trial period at shopify.com/explain all lowercase. Ironically, that's an uppercase. you can go to shopify.com/explain to see if Shopify can help you grow your business no matter what stage you're in. That's shopify.com/explained It is today explained.

0 (14m 9s):
We're back with Ana Grzyma Bussa. Ana's a professor at Stanford and she directs the Europe Center there. She's an analyst of both Poland and Europe more broadly. And I asked her a question, a generation from now, when you're teaching students about this election in Poland, what do you think the story will be?

16 (14m 27s):
I think it'll be seen as the election that turned the tide. I think it's remarkable that we have a denunciation of the peace policies of the last eight years. We also saw remarkable turnout, 74%, including close to 70% of young people, the 18 to 29 cohorts coming out to vote and that turnout was decisive.

17 (14m 50s):
The results are higher than any of the most optimistic polls. We also are very surprised positively with the turnout that's 10% higher than in 1989.

16 (15m 1s):
It was basically a clear renunciation of these kind of autocratic, xenophobic, conservative policies of the Peace Party. Now, you know, the tide may turn back again, but at least for now, this is a, a massive sort of speaking out by society against this party and its policies. The youth turnout really surprised me. That is an electorate that everywhere, whether the United States or in Poland is very hard to get to vote. But I think for them, the issues in these elections, whether abortion or climate change or marriage equality just became so pressing that they all turned out un mass. And that to me, I think is both the biggest surprise and the biggest reason for hope for the future.

16 (15m 42s):
Hmm.

0 (15m 42s):
People often say that Poland is representative of wider shifts in Europe. What are those shifts? What has Poland represented for the past couple years?

16 (15m 52s):
You know, I'm not sure that Poland is all that representative, but I think there is a sort of a broader shift in Europe where a lot of the mainstream parties, the sort of classic parties of governance where increasingly seen as unaccountable, unresponsive, you know, totally failing to live up to the expectations of the electorate. And so a lot of voters turned to these illiberal populist parties instead, they tried them out. And in some cases, you know, these parties remain a minority. In other cases as in Poland or Chea or Slovakia or Hungary, they gained power. And the problem with these parties that once they gain power, they want to entrench themselves. And so I think that's the kind of shift that we're seeing and where these parties entrench themselves as in Hungary, democracy dies.

0 (16m 38s):
Yeah, I was in Hungary last year and we interviewed a lot of people about the backsliding, the democratic backsliding that was happening under Victor Orban. And one of the things that was really interesting was how compelling Orban is to many Hungarians,

18 (16m 53s):
Orban Victor.

19 (16m 56s):
He stands up for the interest of the Hungarians all the time. He does everything so that he, so that we can stay out of the war and we can, we can live peacefully because peace. Peace is the most important thing.

0 (17m 9s):
Where else in Europe has this democratic backsliding been happening? Just gimme a look at the map, if you would, and tell me what's going on and where. So

16 (17m 17s):
We are seeing sort of these kinds of illiberal populist parties supported across Europe in Italy. Georgia Maloney won the elections last year and she's very much in this vein.

20 (17m 29s):
Maloney's party has ideological roots in Italy's Neofascist movement, a movement that gained traction after dictator Benito Mussolini

16 (17m 38s):
In France. Marran Lapin tends to do very well in the presidential elections.

21 (17m 43s):
Its progress compared to 2017 Ma Lappen did better in the second round

16 (17m 48s):
In Germany. The alternative for Germany party is also increasing in its vote.

22 (17m 54s):
Germany's far right a f d has won its first district election. It's a further boost to the anti-immigration party as its surges to record highs in opinion polls.

16 (18m 3s):
I think the big difference is that with the exception of Italy, these parties haven't come to power in Western Europe, whereas in Eastern Europe they have because people expect a lot of democracy. And so what happened in the countries that became democracies after the fall of communism in 1989 is that there were sort of several political options and voters tried at the center left, they tried out the center right, they tried some other parties out and none of them could really sort of address, you know, the fundamental difficulties that are associated with making the transition to a market economy with becoming fully integrated in Europe and so on. And so eventually I think people turned to populace these illiberal populace.

16 (18m 45s):
And in the case of Hungary, that party was extremely successful and has now basically locked itself into power.

0 (18m 53s):
What are the challenges that populism promises to address that have made it so compelling?

16 (18m 59s):
You know, it's not that populism offers solutions, but it speaks a language that a lot of people want articulated. It is a criticism of the elites of the fact that there's this cartel of, you know, highfalutin elites that all just basically create institutions and succeed in the market and economy and do very well for themselves, but do very little for the people. It's a critique of not protecting sovereignty enough. So one of the sort of criticisms that populist parties articulate is that the European Union is demanding too much from these countries and it's not doing enough to protect these countries from the big threat of immigration as they see it. Victor Robin held a hard line against immigration.

23 (19m 43s):
Immigration

24 (19m 44s):
Increases crime, especially criminal acts against women.

25 (19m 47s):
The Polish parliament has voted that migrants can be pushed back over the border. A tactic illegal under international law

20 (19m 55s):
Among her flagship policies, a naval blockade to stop the arrival of immigrants and refugees who she says are bringing crime and poverty to Italy.

16 (20m 5s):
Unlike the United States, many of these societies are culturally homogeneous. And so an influx of immigrants from foreign countries speaking different languages with brown skin and very different sort of attitudes is seen as a cultural threat. And there's the fear that with more immigrants, you know, the healthcare system, schools, housing, all get stretched to the breaking point.

0 (20m 29s):
Alright, so populace whip people up into a frenzy about immigration. They do it successfully enough that they get elected, and then what we see are the populace get into office and we start seeing something that is less populist or partly populist, but also autocratic. What have we been seeing broadly in these countries in Europe where we see populism on the rise and then we bring autocracy in, we say, okay now, now we're seeing autocratic governments. What does that actually look like?

16 (20m 57s):
It's basically a gradual erosion of democracy. We don't see military coups, we don't see revolutions, nothing like that. Instead, precisely because these parties criticize the establishment elites as self-serving and not responsive to popular needs. The first thing that populists do is to assert the need to bring democratic institutions under democratic control. But what they really mean by that is to first and foremost go after the courts.

26 (21m 26s):
The ruling party in Poland has reduced both the powers and the independence of judges there, citing the need to make its judiciary more efficient and stamp out communist influence, which

16 (21m 38s):
Basically means that these political parties then don't have any constraint and they can do what they want. And once they've taken over the courts, they go after the media. The state media is are basically government propaganda, mouthpieces. They try to eliminate free media. And then so you know, as time goes on, they go after civil society, they go after universities. And in the Hungarian case where the party had the votes to do so, they even changed the constitution permanently.

27 (22m 5s):
Protesters say the ruling, the dead party is getting rid of democratic institutions who tightening its grip on power.

16 (22m 12s):
And of course on the edge there are also all kinds of electoral shenanigans. There is buying off voters, there is incentivizing their own constituencies and so on in ways that sort of violate free and fair elections.

0 (22m 25s):
That was the trend that everyone feared was happening in Poland. And yet Poland has just had an election and what you've told us is, wait, it seems the Polish people decided they don't want that. How typical is that? How typical is it that a country begins sliding into autocracy and then the people have an election and say, no, this, this is actually not what we want.

16 (22m 46s):
It's happened. In other cases in Slovenia, the sort of populous, you know, would be Trump got voted out of power in Chaya. The LAIs presidential elections saw basically a rejection of exactly this kind of populism. So voters can and do speak up. The problem is that the longer that populists stay in power, the harder it is for that voice to be heard. In the Hungarian case, it is now virtually impossible for the opposition to win the elections the way it just did in Poland. Hmm. Because in Hungary, these changes went much, much further and much more deeper into the institutions and everything from electoral districts to sort of, you know, voting rules in parliament have been changed to keep that party in power.

0 (23m 29s):
Okay. So Poland had not slid too far is what you're telling me. It was able to come back with a vote with a democratic vote. Where else are we seeing this around the world, this push and pull between populism, authoritarianism, and democracy?

16 (23m 44s):
Well, you know, the obvious scenario is the United States,

28 (23m 47s):
The only way we're gonna lose this election is if the election is rigged. Remember that it's the only way we're gonna lose this election.

0 (23m 56s):
Hmm,

16 (23m 56s):
Yeah. We also saw in the 2020 elections, a massive turnout, 66%. A lot of young people coming out and again voting out what they thought was a populist, who was bent on eroding democracy. That's the clearest case. In other places, you know, like India, Venezuela, Turkey, we see more and more formality lease of an autocratic populous entrenchment.

0 (24m 19s):
Poland seems to be a canary in a coal mine in some sense. Is it now that we need to be concerned less about populism and authoritarianism? How much of a bend have we rounded here? Really?

16 (24m 32s):
I would still be concerned, and I'm concerned because you know, it took an enormous amount of effort. This was a really closely fought election. It could have easily gone the wrong way. And had it not been for the missteps of the populist party, especially regarding abortion and education and climate change, they would've won again. So this was, I think, a story as much of an opposition upsurge as it was of populist incompetence.

0 (25m 10s):
That's Ana Grzyma Busa. She teaches political science at Stanford and directs their Europe Center. Today's show was produced by Isabel Angell and Isha Artsy. We were edited by Miranda Kennedy and fact checked by Tien Nguyen. The show is mixed by Patrick Boyd. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.