0 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from more than this. It's a new podcast from straight talk wireless produced by Vox creative. Those are our friends in the advertising department here. It's all about those winding non-linear stories that lead to life altering changes. You can find more than this. Wherever you find today explained, and you can visit vox.com/more than this for an immersive transcript experience today. Explain doesn't even have one of those.

0 (46s):
Are you familiar with the oath keepers? You might be, even if you're not

2 (50s):
One of the really haunting images from January 6th was this column of people snaking their way up the Capitol steps wearing helmets and cammo and flack vests. And, you know, looking like there was some kind of organized military style operation going on. And the people in that image, those were the oath keepers. A number of them have now been charged in a conspiracy to coordinate an attack on the Capitol.

3 (1m 23s):
The far right extremist group, the oath keepers appeared in federal court. They face charges of conspiracy and breaching the Capitol during the January 6th, insurrection

4 (1m 38s):
Fucking hair fucking Liberty.

2 (1m 53s):
The oath keepers have really evolved from a malicious style organization into a political force within the Republican party mainstream. Now with members who are not participating in, in weapons drills or boot camps, but are actually serving in public office,

0 (2m 17s):
Isaac Arne star. If you've been reporting on the oath keepers for ProPublica, how did this group get started

2 (2m 24s):
With keepers started in 2009 by a guy named Stewart Rhodes.

5 (2m 30s):
It is a fact, the sad fact that most politicians and most lawyers, when they raise their right hand to take the oath, they kind of roll their eyes and smirk and just mumble the words cause they don't,

2 (2m 41s):
Who was an army paratrooper who then went to Yale law school. And yes, I'm

0 (2m 48s):
Sorry. The oath keepers origins trace back to

2 (2m 50s):
Yale. Well, the founder was a student there. Yes,

5 (2m 55s):
He was a lawyer as I'm sure

2 (2m 57s):
They had their kickoff event. They called it a muster like the military term on the Lexington battle green. So the site of the shot heard round the world from the revolutionary war.

5 (3m 10s):
Good afternoon. I'm Stuart Rhodes on the founder of oath keepers. I served as a trooper

2 (3m 21s):
And the idea of the oath keepers was kind of picking up where the 1990s militia movement left off, but wanting to focus specifically on recruiting former law enforcement and military people.

5 (3m 38s):
I've thought about this idea while I was working for Carson Paul's campaign into data. As a volunteer did not matter to any of us who was going to become president. We were going to found this organization regardless because we understood at the time had come to remind all of our brothers in arms or their obligations and to make sure that they stood for.

2 (3m 59s):
So the appeal was that, you know, when you swore an oath to defend and uphold the constitution as someone in the military or as someone in law enforcement, that, that even if you're not on active duty anymore, that oath never expired. And being an oath keeper joining this organization is like the way for you to continue upholding that oath and continue serving, which on its face doesn't sound nefarious, I guess will exactly. I mean, that's how radicalization usually works is to kind of, to kind of draw people in with something that sounds very innocent.

2 (4m 42s):
You know, you're upholding the constitution who could argue with that.

6 (4m 46s):
When we say those words, it's not just something we say we know, but it means we're writing a blank check made out to the people in the United States for an amount up to and including our lives. When a firefighter goes into a burning building, he knows he might not come out, but he's duty

2 (5m 5s):
Well, and the do it. But then you start to introduce them to ideas that push that in a more and more extreme direction. So from the starting point of, you're just continuing your oath to defend the constitution. Then here are what oath keepers actually pledged to do when they join. They pledge that they will refuse to implement unconstitutional orders from the federal government and they list out 10 of them that they'll refuse to obey.

7 (5m 42s):
We will not obey any order to disarm the American people. We will not obey any order to conduct warrantless searches at the American people, their homes, vehicles, papers, or effects such as warrantless house to house searches for weapons or personal. We will not any order to detain American citizens as unlawful enemy combat. We will not obey. And he ordered to blockade American cities, thus turning them into giant concentration camps. We will not obey, not ornate anywhere. We will not obey any orders, which infringe on the right of the people to free speech, to peaceably assemble and to petition their government lives under any emergency pretext whatsoever.

2 (6m 22s):
The things in this list are there, right? Wing fever, dreams, they're conspiracy theories that construct a worldview where, where the federal government is on the brink of tyranny and is going to take everyone's guns away and take everyone's rights away and put people in concentration camps. And so that's how, how they start pushing people down this path of fear and extremism and seeing this threat. That's so intolerable that it starts to prepare people to think that they can respond with violence in the face of something so unacceptable.

2 (7m 6s):
How does this group start to pick up steam? So it started off really small and it became more prominent in the mid 20 teens. When those keeper members started showing up at the racial justice protests in Ferguson,

8 (7m 26s):
I've said before, are here, they're documenting the activities. And we're here to keep,

2 (7m 32s):
If you remember, there were a series of standoffs in the Western us between ranchers and federal agents, because the ranchers were insisting that they were sovereign citizens.

9 (7m 44s):
Jim Lordy came from Montana to join the protestors. He says he and other militia members are not afraid to shoot if necessary,

10 (7m 53s):
Why the gun? Well, they have guns. We need guns to protect ourselves from.

2 (8m 1s):
And there were oath keepers involved in that. And so that is sort of how people started to hear of them. And they started to grow that way also. So does the group have some sort of central hierarchy? The justice department describes it as, as loosely organized, which is apt. You know, it's really, it's more of an ideology than it is like a regimented organization. And, and that's how it's important to understand it as distinct from like a militia and more like a political entity. What was motivating this group and, or around 2009, there was an analysis by the department of Homeland security in 2009, that, that raised an alarm that right-wing extremists were using the financial crisis and the election of the first black president and fears about gun regulation and things like that to, to recruit and specifically trying to appeal to military veterans.

2 (9m 6s):
And this report ended up being leaked and became very controversial with congressional Republicans who kind of made it out to be the Obama administration, persecuting conservatives for their belief that

11 (9m 24s):
No Timothy McVeigh's out there right now, portraying standard, ordinary, everyday conservatives as posing a bigger threat to this country. Then Al Qaeda terrorists, naming veterans groups as possible extremist groups,

2 (9m 39s):
DHS kind of apologized and disbanded the unit that did this. And, and the message that went out from that basically was you don't want to mess with right-wing extremism. It's too political. It's a bad look. Just, just don't, don't go there. And in the decade that followed groups like the oath keepers were able to hugely expand. And, and there were some prosecutions of individual Oathkeepers for, you know, weapons charges and things like that as isolated incidents, but there was not the kind of investment in right-wing extremism that, that law enforcement made in left-wing extremism and, and foreign inspired terrorism until after January 6th,

0 (10m 31s):
Thinking about January 6th and the kinds of people I saw raging out there at the Capitol, I'm picturing angry white men. I know there are members of the oath keepers who happen to be people of color. I don't know how predominant they are, but, but is there a racial dynamic at play within this group? As far as you know,

2 (10m 52s):
That's not really their niche in the right wing extremism universe. They are actually, they're not marketing themselves as white nationalists or white supremacists. And those keepers are actually trying to differentiate themselves from groups that are more along those lines. And, and their focus is more on government tyranny.

0 (11m 15s):
How does like the tenor of the oath keepers organization change under president Trump?

2 (11m 21s):
Their rhetoric starts getting very heated in the summer of 2020, around the George Floyd protests and taking it on themselves to help impose from their perspective, impose law and order where there's rioting and looting going on. And then it escalates from there to, to embracing Trump's lies about the election being stolen, and then setting up the idea of January 6th as being like a last stand for the

12 (11m 57s):
Country. We have men already stationed outside. Do you see as a nuclear option in case the attempt to remove the president illegally, we will step in and stop it. It's either president Trump has encouraged and bolstered strengthened to do what he must do. Or we wound up in a, in a bloody fight. We all know that the flight's coming.

2 (12m 14s):
What role did the other

0 (12m 15s):
Keepers play in the,

2 (12m 18s):
You know, when Trump tweets that, you know, he wants to see everyone at January 6th and it's going to be quite wild. You know, they take that as a command to show up and, you know, deploy and they start making plans for how they're going to get there and what weapons they can bring and how they're gonna store and stash their weapons. And then they're, you know, they're in communication throughout the day as a group of them go into the Capitol and clash with law enforcement.

0 (12m 51s):
And now we know for a fact that members of the oath keepers have been charged in connection with the January 6th instruction.

2 (12m 59s):
And there's a large group of both keepers that are charged as a group, as a conspiracy. And then there's a handful of additional people who are charged individually just as, you know, being people in the mob who also happened to be oath keepers. And then I also found three more people who were charged individually and not identified by prosecutors as oath keepers, but as it turns out, we're on the membership list, how does

0 (13m 27s):
The insurrection change the perception of this group, if it does at all?

2 (13m 31s):
One way that it changed is that that Republican leaders and the Republican party as a whole really didn't disavow or distance itself or condemn what happened, they developed a counter narrative based on misinformation about January 6th to minimize or deny the violence and the role of groups like the oath keepers in it. So really it's kind of a, a legitimising or a tolerating of the oath keepers as part of the movement.

2 (14m 17s):
It wasn't that long ago where basically no politician would ever want to be associated with a group like the housekeepers. And then what we've seen since January 6th is actually a lot of Republican officials who are, seem to be totally fine with it. And then what we found out is a number of them actually are oath keepers themselves.

0 (15m 8s):
Support for the show today comes from more than this, you know, that old yarn that you know, it's not about the destination, it's about the journey. That's kinda what this podcast is about. You probably know people who, you know, blew up their lives during the pandemic. They switched jobs, move across country. You know, a lo got a dog, maybe like four dogs. Maybe they need to calm down with the dogs. That's sort of what this show's about. Not really like where they ended up, but how they got there. Cause that's where the really interesting stuff is your host, Danielle Prescott, who's a fashion editor, turned author on the other side of her own more than this moment is introducing listeners to people like Mandy Harvey.

0 (15m 48s):
Mandy is a musician who found her way back to her craft. After the loss of something crucial, her hearing, you can find more than this where you find today, explain, and they've got this cool visual transcript experience that you can find at vox.com/more than this Isaac. Before the break, you were talking about how Republicans didn't disavow this group, they didn't condemn the oath keepers. And then in your reporting, you found out that Republicans, in some cases, aren't Oathkeepers what did you find out and how so?

0 (16m 34s):
What happened was the

2 (16m 34s):
Oath keepers were hacked back in September. We don't know who the hacker was, but the hacker gave the files to an organization called distributed denial of secrets, which is a nonprofit that discloses information that they think the public should have. And they shared it with journalists, including us at ProPublica. And one of the things that was in these files was a membership list. And more than 35,000 names throughout the whole decade plus history of the organization,

0 (17m 9s):
Is there a membership list because like you gotta pay dues and subscribe to get like your monthly patch or something. Yeah. Basically

2 (17m 16s):
It's $50 for an annual membership or I think a thousand dollars for a lifetime member.

0 (17m 23s):
Do you know what the benefits are? Do you get like a discount at the movies?

2 (17m 27s):
Know, I think for most people, the point was to, was to support this cause that they wanted to identify themselves with. But I do think that there's a, there's like a patch or a decal or some kind of merge that goes with it. And there, there was also a merch store for some amount of time.

0 (17m 42s):
Love it. So who's in the group, who's on this list of 35,000 people. Well, first of all, just

2 (17m 46s):
More people than experts expected. I think analysts and people who follow this thought, you know, maybe more in the 10,000 range. And so just a lot more people just showing how much this group has grown and spread. And, you know, as you might expect in a group that intends to recruit law enforcement and military veterans, there are a lot of law enforcement and military veterans, you know, there were hundreds of people who actually signed up using a government or a military email address. So there are certainly well-represented. But what I was interested in was looking for people who were involved politically, and one of the ways of doing that was, you know, when, when people signed up, there was a place for them to kind of write down either why they were joining or what they, what they had to offer the organizations sort of, and I'll read you the entry from a retired and my PD officer who moved upstate, and he wrote pistol shooting, police street, tactics, driving skills, county, Republican committee member.

2 (19m 2s):
So right there, you have kind of, he's sort of crystallizing his understanding of what this group is all about. It's about the preparation for violence, but it's also about the politics and that he was involved with the Republican party in his local town. I found 48 people who I could identify either by matching their name to a list of public officials or because of, you know, what they volunteered about themselves when they filled out this form. So I could, I could identify that they were either party officials or elected officials. So 48 hours,

0 (19m 41s):
The 35,000 members doesn't seem like, you know, I don't know, like the end of the world, but why did you find that notable all the same?

2 (19m 52s):
Well, I couldn't check every one of the 35,000. These were the ones that I was able to find either through a name match or because they basically volunteered about themselves. Like, you know, Hey, I'm, I'm in, I'm into politics. So, you know, this is a, this is a bare minimum, but, but the other thing is that, you know, again, you, you wouldn't have, you know, that number would have been zero in a world where, where the major political parties said, there's no place for violent extremism in our party. And instead when I called these folks to ask them about their affiliation, you know, most of them were, were proud to be identified as, as Oathkeepers and did not feel they had anything to apologize or account for in terms of being a member of the group that was involved in attacking the Capitol.

2 (20m 47s):
What are

0 (20m 48s):
Some of the more high ranking positions you find oath, keepers holding?

2 (20m 53s):
So there were 10 state legislators, two in North Carolina, one in Alaska, one in Indiana, one in Georgia, and then two in Arizona who had actually were already known to be affiliated with the oath keepers. There were a bunch more candidates for the state house and an aid to a state legislator. There were former congressional candidates. And then there were people who were, you know, county commissioners and alderman and whole worker and sheriffs and constables and mayor and, and those kinds of positions. There was a guy in Idaho who actually had it right on his official government bio.

2 (21m 35s):
He had a long list of affiliations. It says military police, regimental association, American Legion, John Birch society, Oathkeepers Idaho farm bureau. And then there was a guy in, in South Dakota and another state Senator from South Dakota, who actually is the only one who said that he doesn't support the group anymore.

0 (21m 58s):
Is there a lot of that? Like, oh, I signed up for this group back in the Obama administration because he was coming for our guns and you know, it doesn't really mean that much to me. I go, what, what is the line between, I am an oath keeper and believe that the election was stolen and therefore the insurrection was valid and like, yeah, I love the constitution. And I gave this group some money in 2012.

2 (22m 22s):
Certainly the majority of the people I talked to were in the position of, you know, yeah, I joined, I paid my dues. I never heard from them again. Maybe I went to a few meetings, but that was it. It was a long time ago, but I always asked everyone, you know, what do you think about being affiliated with the housekeepers, given what happened on January 6th and almost all of them would answer with misinformation about what actually happened on January 6th or, you know, excuses or, or minimizing, and very few adjust one or two actually condemned the housekeepers.

2 (23m 5s):
And what happened on January 6th?

0 (23m 7s):
Obviously there are people in our federal government, in the house of representatives in the Senate who believe, or at least purport to believe that the election was stolen from the former president. Why does it matter that there's also people on the local level who hold these?

2 (23m 21s):
It makes groups like the oath keepers more dangerous because that lends them credibility. They're being there instead of being shunned by people, in positions of authority, they're being welcomed by people in positions of authority, and that helps them spread their message further. Mike Clampett in North Carolina is a state legislator. And, you know, I was talking with him about joining the other keepers a long time ago. And I asked him, do you still participate in the housekeepers now? And he said, yes, I'm a state legislator for him being a public official is how he participates in the oath keepers. You know, he sponsors bills like increasing penalties for demonstrating, which was a response to the George Florida protests in Raleigh last year.

2 (24m 11s):
Ironic. And he also, co-sponsored a bill to let elected officials such as himself carry concealed weapons in places like court houses and schools where they're currently not allowed state Senator Wendy Rogers and a state rep mark Fincham. They have been leaders of this effort to audit for 20, 20 election. And then on the basis of that, recall the electors or de-certified the election and mark Fincham is actually running for secretary of state now, which is the position in Arizona. That's in charge of the state's elections. And Trump has endorsed him for that,

0 (24m 49s):
The foreign presidents out of office, but the oath keepers are going strong. They participated in the insurrection. Some of them are facing criminal charges for doing so, but that hasn't slowed anything down. How has this group grown? I dunno, even more bold since then.

2 (25m 6s):
I think it's important to, to distinguish between like the group, meaning the organization itself and like the cause of the group or the ideology of the group. And so like the organization itself is like kind of a mess and, you know, the charges have made things worse in that regard, the idea that, that the FBI was going to dismantle the oath keepers the way that the FBI dismantle the mob is just not what's going on here. And really, if you think about it less as an organization and more about a movement or an ideology that has clearly only spread more and become more widely accepted in the Republican party.

0 (25m 47s):
And just to be clear here, it is not illegal to belong to this group.

2 (25m 51s):
It's not illegal to belong to any group. How does the government handle this? That's a really hard problem that federal law enforcement is trying to figure out sort of, how do you disrupt the radicalization? How do you stop people from turning ideas into violence before they're violent, but without, you know, infringing on, on freedom of political expression, it's, it's a really difficult challenge, you know, then, and back to what happened in 2009, with that DHS assessment, they've messed it up in the past. You're are seeing a bunch of candidates who were, you know, even if they were an oath keepers, they were there on January 6th.

2 (26m 35s):
And that's a key message of their campaign. Now, I mean, this has become kind of a core part of what one of the parties

0 (26m 43s):
Stands

1 (26m 44s):
For

0 (26m 51s):
Isaac Arne store. He covers national politics for pro Publica. Our episode today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain. She's a veteran, but not an oath keeper, happy veterans day it's today explained The support for the program today has come from more than this.

0 (27m 43s):
They're asking a scary question on the show. What if, what if this actually isn't my dream job? What if I did start that business? What if I took that trip? What if I did go on that date with that person who I don't think I like, but what if they're the person of my dreams listen to more than this, wherever you're listening to this and go to vox.com/more than this each week for a visual transcript experience.