0 (0s):
Today explained Rama's from yesterday. Noelle, you told us how hungry became a democracy and then kind of democratically, at least fell apart. You are still in Budapest. What are you going to tell us today?

1 (14s):
I'm telling you the weirdest thing, which is that Budapest feels a lot like the United States, huh? Yeah. There's no secret police following me. My phone is not being tapped. This does not feel like authoritarianism to me. So the question is if, as an outsider, I not noticing anything anti-democratic, but I know that the country is moving away from democracy. How much do Hungarians notice what's going on and how much do they blame or credit their prime minister, Victor Orban. Who's the guy who's really behind these anti-democratic movements.

0 (45s):
And you're going to ask some Hungarians,

1 (47s):
So many Hungarians.

0 (48s):
I'm excited,

1 (49s):
Nice meat, too

0 (60s):
Support for their shelter that comes from better help. Better help is customized online therapy that offers video phone and even live chat sessions with your therapist. So you don't have to see anyone on camera. If you don't want to, it's much more affordable than in-person therapy, according to better help. And you can be matched with that therapist in under 48 hours. According to better help today. Explain listeners. Hi, get 10% off their first month@betterhealthdotcomslashexplainthatisbetterhelp.com slash explained

3 (1m 32s):
The money revolution. Isn't just coming. It's already here. More and more people are investing in an asset class. The wall street journal called among the hottest markets on earth. And while traditional investors might be sitting out on the sidelines savvy investors who recognize unique opportunities when they arise are boldly entering a growing $1.7 trillion asset class. See the rest of the story at masterworks.art/box and see important regulation, a disclosures@masterworks.io slash CD that's masterworks.art/box

1 (2m 16s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king.

6 (2m 18s):
You're going to get, This is a Hungarian song.

1 (2m 28s):
Here's what's going on while we're waiting out in the street in downtown Budapest to be let into a lovely old apartment building our fixer. <inaudible> told us about this couple named Tibor and air. Shay bet. Horvat in liberal Budapest. Montay told us you will not find a lot of pro or bond people or people who support his party fetus because of the whole authoritarian ish thing. But these two, like Orban they're from outside of Budapest. Originally,

9 (2m 57s):
She came from the east. I came from the Western. Now we have met here 45 years ago, and it was a love at first sight and he get to love one another seeing the time

1 (3m 14s):
Does she agree? It was love at first sight.

10 (3m 19s):
It,

1 (3m 20s):
She says they get along well. Tibor is in his late sixties. He's a retired telecom engineer. Airshow. Beth is in her early seventies. She's a retired dental assistant who lights up like a Kissling chandelier. When you say the name, Victor Orban, can we ask her what is so nice about Victor Orban? Why does she like him? And if he does so much

10 (3m 43s):
Jenny Alish or by Victor, Mindy modular,

6 (3m 49s):
He stands up for the interests of the Hungarians all the time. He does everything so that he sort of, we can stay out of the war and we can, we can live peacefully because peace, peace is the most important thing

10 (4m 0s):
Has shrink. Your

1 (4m 2s):
Well bond was just reelected. And one of his campaign promises was to stay out of Bladimir Putin's war in Ukraine. Now hungry is a member of NATO and Orban is chummy with Putin. So he wasn't ever going to get involved in this war, but truthiness, it worked

9 (4m 19s):
10 times more clever, clever than anybody in the last thing. Parties he's been a star since he was born. I think he was born at a secondary school in the university and SOA. So he's a talented politician, a bone politician.

1 (4m 44s):
Would you compare him to, is there a politician like him in the

9 (4m 47s):
United States?

1 (4m 49s):
Ronald Reagan,

9 (4m 50s):
Ronald Reagan. I know that the American people consider him the best president ever and reconsider Mr. Orban, the best president ever

1 (5m 5s):
T-bar knows that Orban is not a Saint Hungary has a lot of economic corruption. Some guys get rich, they get good government contracts because they're connected to feed as it bugs him. So he decided to address it with the man himself.

9 (5m 19s):
Four years ago, I sent a letter to the secretary of the prime minister. Oh, we took points. One point was, I can appreciate your efforts to stop the big migration at the Hungarian border. Congratulations.

1 (5m 43s):
He's happy that Orban built a fence along the Southern border to keep out migrants from places like Syria and Afghanistan.

9 (5m 49s):
And the second point was that the corruption is higher and higher. And I've got an answer within two weeks. Thank you for the congratulation.

1 (6m 0s):
The congratulations got a thank you. Note. The criticism went unanswered. Let's talk about democracy and Victor Orban. I think many people who are critical of prime minister Orban, they think he has too much control control over judiciary control over the media control over the economy. And they say, oh, that's not what democracy is. That's something different.

9 (6m 27s):
You are right. I like the left wing people to criticize Orban. And sometimes I do the same because I know that the corruption rate is very high in Hungary during gore one as well. And I know that that Orban himself is a part of the corruption. Of course,

1 (6m 52s):
You know that. Yeah,

9 (6m 54s):
I know. I know it.

1 (6m 56s):
So Orban has all the power. His propaganda machine is staggeringly efficient. He doesn't answer to critics, but he'll take a compliment. He set it up. So he can't lose an election. Is this not reminding you of something? I have a question for your wife, but tell her that I'm an American and I, if I sound ignorant, I don't mean to.

6 (7m 19s):
I also want to, I made a cave. I dropped that Latin <inaudible>

1 (7m 25s):
Communists in Hungary had all had so much power over the political system, the media, the civic institutions, but now people say Victor Orban has all the power over the media, the civic institutions, the judiciary. How is Victor Orban? Better than the communists

10 (7m 51s):
<inaudible> Borsa stone

6 (7m 58s):
In the fifties, it was terrible.

10 (7m 59s):
Terrible.

6 (8m 8s):
The police closed down their pantry so that they would starve to death

9 (8m 16s):
Positive.

10 (8m 17s):
Yeah, <inaudible>

6 (8m 25s):
They seal the pantry. And they said that if any of the kids tampers with the seal, they would take the parents to present.

1 (8m 33s):
This was in their family home. What was going on here in your family? Home, the communist,

9 (8m 45s):
You better call you back. That's no way

1 (9m 0s):
It's not fair is what you're telling

9 (9m 2s):
Me. That's democracy.

1 (9m 5s):
This is real democracy.

9 (9m 7s):
Democracy.

1 (9m 20s):
I didn't realize you had suffered so much and it's, it's stupid to compare what's happening here today to what was happening back then,

9 (9m 31s):
It was compulsory for you to, to give these, these kinds of questions every day in depressant and the media, the electronic media, you meet the situation that it's communism, it's communism. It's fascism it Gooding. And so on lies, lies, lies, lies, lies, lies.

1 (9m 54s):
He's saying the Western media paints or bond as a fascist, but imagine writing a letter to Joseph Stalin or to Vladimir Putin. Dear, sir, you've done some good things. You've done some bad things. I'm pretty sure you wouldn't get a nice letter back. So if communism in Hungary was some jackbooted, dirtbags burst into your house and say, your property is not your property anymore. It's not your food. Those are not your clothes also. Don't you dare talk openly about us or criticize us, or we'll throw you in prison or worse. Well, what's going on today is not communism, but it's also not the straight democracy that replaced communism in the nineties. So then what is organism?

1 (10m 45s):
Bush or Zabi, he's not into politics. He's a volunteer host of a radio show about Indian classical music. He's a Buddhist. He teaches sitar for a living. He could news. Many of us know, at least one zombie your outfit would suggest, are you a marathon runner? Yeah.

12 (11m 3s):
Yes, yes. I ran here and they run back. When I, when I finished everything. So

13 (11m 9s):
Are you serious?

12 (11m 10s):
What you run out? Yeah, of course.

1 (11m 13s):
Zombie has been on the receiving end of Orban ism check this. The government has a quota system.

12 (11m 19s):
Community radio stations have to provide 50% Hungarian music and 50% international music. Wait,

1 (11m 27s):
You, the government gets to tell you how much Hungarian music you have to play.

12 (11m 32s):
Yeah. And we, we it's a small country. We don't have that much good music.

1 (11m 38s):
What do you play? Do you like search the streets for like punk bands? Like,

12 (11m 44s):
Can you imagine my Indian classical radio show what to do? I started playing with the names, like instead of Shankar, I said Ravi Shan door, no,

14 (11m 56s):
You made Ravi Shankar a Hungarian. Oh my God. Don't tell me things like that tape. I'm worried for you.

1 (12m 9s):
Coming up. Zombie explains the grotesque absurdity of the Hungarian media laws and what it feels like to butt heads with bureaucracy and to lose plus an Orban curious American in Budapest.

0 (12m 59s):
As you may have heard support for the program today comes from better help. Sometimes just figuring out what's making you feel a certain way can be a big, huge step forward. That's why better help. Online therapy wants to remind you dear listener, that talking to someone can help you identify and cope with sources of stress. Are you feeling stressed? Am I feeling stressed? I don't know. That's kind of a personal question. Better help is customized online therapy that offers video phone and even live chat sessions with your therapist. You do not have to see anyone on camera if you don't want to.

0 (13m 39s):
Do you want to? I want to, but if you don't want to that's okay. It's much more affordable than in-person therapy says better help and you can be matched with a therapist and under 48 hours says better help today. Explain listeners get 10% off their first month at better help.com/explained that is better. aglp.com/explained.

15 (14m 0s):
Everyone loves a freebie, whether that's a sharp commemorative water bottle for the first customer to finish 50 wins in one city or a great set of branded hoodies for the staff that fried them up. Swag makes people smile and CustomInk can help you make top notch, branded gear easily. Add your logo, high quality gear from brands that you trust, creating great custom pieces that your employees, customers, and everyone else will appreciate from backpacks to polos. CustomInk has everything you need to execute the designs of your wildest dreams. Make custom, make your go-to custom gear partner to score great customer service, high quality products, all in pricing. Plus you'll get personalized help when you need it. And an easy to use website when you don't, it's all backed by a 100% satisfaction guarantee.

15 (14m 43s):
Go to custom ink.com to get started today. That's custom Inc com.

13 (14m 50s):
Our show is called today, explained and sometimes in the middle, someone sings today today explained it's today. You explained, would you mind seeing that in Hungarian,

12 (15m 4s):
Mom, mom, <inaudible> mom <inaudible>

1 (15m 14s):
It's today explained from Budapest I'm Noel king. Okay. Back to zombie at the radio station, he's been volunteering in community radio for 30 years and the station itself might as well be in Berkeley. There are kitchen shelves crammed with coffee mugs that don't belong to anyone in particular. There are awards for public service, trash cleanup in a glass case,

12 (15m 37s):
We were the most successful trash collecting team on the river. Tessa

1 (15m 42s):
Is a radio station collecting trash

12 (15m 45s):
Because there are so many trash and teaser.

1 (15m 49s):
The station is called T Loesch radio. What is Tilo Shameen

12 (15m 53s):
Forbidden forbidden, But it was, it was, I kind of wanted to have a tasty tasty name for the, for the radio station. At that time, it was not forbidden. I mean, there was no media low at all.

1 (16m 8s):
The name was ironic. Communism was newly out free. Media was newly in fetus or bonds party was radical chic.

12 (16m 16s):
When we started this radio station in 1991, people said that, oh, we are surely the radio station of the fetus. Because at that time, we, this was a young and liberal party

1 (16m 31s):
With the kids. You were the community radio kids. So everybody thought that you were, I see where you feed as supporters.

12 (16m 37s):
No, no, no, no. That's a basic thing we don't get. For example, support and any money, we don't accept any money from parties, political parties and companies.

1 (16m 47s):
Did you think Viktor Orban was cool though?

12 (16m 49s):
Actually, there was one. I'm not sure if I can remember exactly the quote, but once he said in 1992, that it's a very cool thing and it must have to have something like that in Hungary. And it was about tilapia

1 (17m 7s):
Over the course of about 30 years. Telos radio grew from a small operation to include hundreds of volunteers in a building that used to be the old state coin. Mintage tealish, isn't a new station, but it has news bulletins and talk shows about current affairs. And once upon a time, there were many lotions

12 (17m 25s):
At that time, in 2012, when the fetus came in in power, there were 68 community radio stations in Hungary.

1 (17m 33s):
And this one, it just volunteers, people doing shows that interested them little kitchen, everybody shares mugs. There were 67 of them.

12 (17m 42s):
Yeah, no, 68 68. And they banned actually they closed 67 out of

1 (17m 48s):
Them. You're the last one.

12 (17m 50s):
As far as I know, yes.

1 (17m 52s):
From 68 or so to one thing that Victor Orban and fetus have done remarkably well is captured the free press. Their media law would make Kafka blush. It's 150 plus pages of tiny font that controls everything from who gets to be on TV and radio. To whether you can show minors, drinking alcohol, you can not should regularly has to renew its FM radio license and the feed as controlled media council, which enforces the feed as written media law recently turned them down

12 (18m 24s):
Minefield. So you cannot do everything right there. For example, we have to provide sometimes a week long program transcript at seconds by seconds. And we don't have anyone who can do that because our, our station based on live music, we play lots of black wine yells, et cetera.

1 (18m 46s):
The government is deliberately making it difficult. The government says T Loesch is losing its FM signal for using inappropriate language. Four times since 2015, the station also allegedly failed to provide data to regulators twice and had two irregularities in its reports. If all of that sounds very vague. Yes, that would be the point. And there's an argument I've heard many times in Hungary from people who like Victor Orban, that this is not a big deal. A bunch of Neo hippies. Can't get their little radio shows on the airwaves who really cares. You're not particularly political, but can you explain for somebody who might be skeptical?

1 (19m 30s):
Like why does a little community radio station matter? What is the bigger thing that's going on here

12 (19m 40s):
To have everything I'm in the government once to have everything. And this is part of everything.

1 (19m 58s):
It's pettiness it's control. It's suspicion, it's fines for breaking rules that can't be followed it's everything. And yet let's remember what brought us to Budapest. American conservatives are holding SeaPak here. What exactly about these circumstances would appeal to freedom, love and bureaucracy hate and small government. No bullshit Americans. It was time to ask an American. I can tell you from upstate New York by looking at you. Does that sound crazy? No. Chris Baluchi grew up two towns over from me. He's wearing reflective sunglasses, khaki shorts, a Sandlot t-shirt we're in a suburb of Budapest, but Chris improbably is living the American dream.

1 (20m 45s):
He's only 30, but he has two gorgeous kids. His wife's family lives just down the street. He has a small but pristine house. And his mortgage is exactly zero.

16 (20m 54s):
We bought this house for nine and a half million for it. Yeah. So that's 30 grand

1 (21m 2s):
High five. Me damn

16 (21m 4s):
Them.

1 (21m 5s):
Chris has politics are a little all over the place. He's pro gay rights. Pro-abortion rights. He says he's a registered Democrat, but he's totally myth about the democratic party. He doesn't like Trump or Biden. So he just didn't vote in the last election.

16 (21m 18s):
I just couldn't feel good with either of the decisions,

1 (21m 22s):
But that doesn't mean he's not paying attention to politics. In fact, he was watching the Hungarian election really carefully. What do you think now? A days about Victor Orban?

16 (21m 32s):
Well, I think on the world stage, it's amazing what he's accomplished. I think he's a very successful man. I think that, you know, a country like Hungary with its population and its GDP very tiny, but somehow his name's being brought up. You know, somehow he's got swing somehow he's meeting with these big guys. So, you know, he's doing something right. And he just got elected with an overwhelming, you know, percentage. So he's doing something right. And I understand that a lot of that comes from his control over the media. So I do understand that.

16 (22m 14s):
However, I'm not one of those people that is under his, you know, veil that doesn't, can't see objectively what's going on.

1 (22m 24s):
It sounds like there's probably a not insignificant number of Hungarians who know exactly what Victor Oban is all about. And like you say, this guy is doing something right for the country, right? The country is doing well, the economy is doing well. The policies benefit us. It's not okay. The economy,

16 (22m 43s):
Let's not say that. He's like, like he's, he's killing it. What I'm saying is that he's done something for Hungary that I don't think any other guy would be able to do. So

1 (22m 57s):
Make it a player in the world. Yeah.

16 (22m 59s):
Yeah. So we were talking about Trump and or Bon, and I think you need to include Putin in this conversation if we're talking about autocrats. So I think that Trump is a, want to be Orban or Bon is a want to be Putin. If you look at the level of autocracy, you go Trump, Orban, Putin,

1 (23m 21s):
You're living very happily in a country where you're saying your belief is the prime minister wants to be like Vladimir Putin. Why does that not scare the hell out of you? You seem very happy with

16 (23m 32s):
More scared of, as a father. I'm responsible for my children until they're adults. It's my job to guide them, steer them. And if I look at who I think is going to personally, for me going to be the best person to help me pursue my vision of what I want to achieve. I think that right now fetus would be better. Long-term I don't think that they should keep hold of this control.

1 (23m 59s):
All of this makes sense, I suppose, but Viktor Orban has been prime minister since 2010 long-term that's the whole point. And it's a very easy thing to miss. Even if you're watching carefully.

16 (24m 12s):
What I like about fetus is they have been able to set up a system that runs very well. It's a well-oiled machine. She gets shit done, Republicans get shit done. And sometimes they get shit done that you don't like, but they do get shit done. And I feel like the other side, we'll not get shit done.

1 (24m 43s):
Viktor Orban, his ability to get things done in a, not very democratic fashion appeals to a lot of American conservatives too. They're here in Budapest for the conservative political action conference. Hungary drift coming up tomorrow. We try to get in to the conference that we have flown thousands of miles to cover, but will Hungarian bureaucracy stop us? Our show today was produced by miles, Brian. It was edited by Dooley Myers and Matthew Colette. It was engineered by a fume Shapiro and it was fact checked by Laura Bullard. The rest of the team today explained includes Halima Shaw, Heidi, Milwaukee, D Avishai artsy, Victoria Chamberlain, and our audio fellow Tori Domingez.

1 (25m 28s):
Sean Rama's firm is my cohost. We are currently nine time zones away from each other. A Shaun. We had extra help this week from Moto <inaudible>. Our supervising producer is Amina El Sadi Box's vice-president of audio is Liz Kelly Nelson. We use music by Breakmaster cylinder and no I'm Hassenfeld. And we're distributed to public radio stations across the United States in partnership with w NYC I'm Noel king today explained as part of the Vox media podcast network.

3 (26m 34s):
This episode has been brought to you by grin. Top creators are already using and loving your product. So why haven't you partnered with them so they can share that with their audience. Grin helps you bring creators on board is the ultimate champions of your brand. You can recruit ship sample products and track creator content. All in one place. Grin is the number one influencer management platform, helping e-commerce brands connect with their audience through the power of creator partnerships. Find out how grin can help you grow your brand. Watch the demo@grin.co that's. GRI n.co Support for this episode comes from Fitbit.

3 (27m 16s):
Here's the question. What is sound have to do with our wellness? Sorry about that. Here. Try this Better. Huh? Fitbit is here to help you notice the ups and downs of stress in your life. So you can start to bring a little more calm into your every day. The Fitbit sense helps you put heart health first with an EDA sensor and ECG app and advanced stress monitoring. Listen to your body. Feel your power, learn more@fitbit.com.