1 (13s):
It's getting real out here in Corona Country, California, which is already declared a state of emergency is currently dealing with yet another cruise ship outbreak the University of Washington in Seattle announced today that it would be canceling in-person classes for the foreseeable future and President Trump just announced eight point three billion dollars in emergency aid to deal with covet 19 safe to say this thing is waxing not waning in the United States. But what about that tickle in the back of your throat? That mild fever that dry cough is that allergies? Is that the flu or you know on today's show we wanted to help explain how you know, if you have this thing or how you go about finding out Caroline Chen has been reporting on covet 19 testing for propublica and she's going to present how this whole situation could go extra stress on could because it could go a lot of different ways depending on Your doctor your test your state all that also because it's stressful.

3 (1m 17s):
So let's say you woke up and you're not feeling so hot and you're thinking oh, no do I have the Corona virus? So the first thing I would say is what symptoms do you have and I think a lot of people don't know actually what the presenting symptoms are of the Corona virus because a lot of You'll have just been hearing it's

1 (1m 43s):
flu-like.

3 (1m 47s):
So actually a good thing to know is that the first two presenting symptoms are fever and a dry cough not the runny nose or you know a wet mucousy cough. So let's say that you do have the to presenting symptoms, which is a fever and dry cough. The next thing to do would be ideally to call by which I mean ring your doctor, or if you have a primary care physician, or if you don't have a primary care physician a ready to call. see a local Clinic or to call your local hospital and the reason why is particularly if you are in an area say some a place like Seattle right now, which has had a lot of cases.

3 (2m 33s):
They're pretty overwhelmed right now and this helps to do some triage and your doctor's probably going to ask you questions.

1 (2m 40s):
Like what's your travel history been

3 (2m 43s):
or if you're in the Seattle area

1 (2m 46s):
tell me something. What is your day to day look like are you around a lot of people are you writing public transit

3 (2m 52s):
and this calling just So you talk to a medical professional who will help you sort out, you know, are you a likely candidate for the Corona virus and it helps to not overwhelm emergency rooms and part of the reason for this is because it's also flu season right now just statistically speaking. It is still more likely that you have the flu then the Corona virus. So if everybody who thought they had the coronavirus just went straight for the emergency room. Our hospitals would be in trouble. So what does point you've called your doctor and you're going to follow whatever your doctor tells you to do and your experience could vary really dramatically depending on where in the country you are which state you're in but I would say broadly you're probably going to get you know, one of a number of responses if your doctor thinks it's very very unlikely that you have the coronavirus.

3 (3m 52s):
It's possible. They'll

1 (3m 53s):
say I think you should stay at home. You should monitor your symptoms and keep Post-it, call me if anything changes.

3 (4m 2s):
They could

1 (4m 2s):
say it sounds like you are sick, but I really don't think you have the Corona virus. So here's what you need to do. Come to the office. We'll assess you for whatever else. We think you might have, but we're not going to test you for Coronavirus right

3 (4m 17s):
now, or they could say

1 (4m 18s):
based on what you're telling me especially since you're in the Seattle area where we've seen other people with symptoms like yours will test you just to be safe.

3 (4m 30s):
They'll probably then tell you to come in and I'm not really sure exactly what the procedure is stay in the greater Seattle area, but it's likely that there are specific hospitals that they are directing likely candidates to for testing and they would give you directions to go to a specific location that is taking what they call pu eyes which is a person under investigation and that's when they would test you for the Corona virus. So at this point it's a swab like You're being tested for the flu. They'll take a swab and send that specimen to a lab and depending on where you are in the country. There are some states where their labs are already set up and able to take tests and there are other states where they're still working on getting their public Labs or local academic medical centers, you know hospitals to have capabilities to do testing locally.

3 (5m 27s):
And so if they don't they have The specimens to the CDC and that's going to determine how fast you get an answer. So I'm currently at a conference in New Orleans and I spoke to a official at the public health department here and they said that they currently haven't been running a lot of tests. So in their local lab they can get an answer in under six hours, but currently if they get what they call a presumptive positive so they get a positive answer they then And the patient sample to the CDC as well for confirmation and that can take days.

3 (6m 8s):
If doctors suspect that you are positive, even if they're waiting for the test results to come back they will most likely I can't imagine why they would not they would isolate you at a hospital because they don't want you to transmit the disease to someone else and I would not be surprised if they would also start asking you about, you know, who else you live with and and ask them to do what's called self-isolation and start tracking yourself for symptoms like cough and fever. Until they hear back on your test results. And then of course, if you're positive then the people who you are close to are going to be closely watched in case they come up with symptoms and that's known as contact tracing because they want to know who you've been around in case they then also become positive cases.

1 (6m 57s):
If you've been paying attention to the news this week, you know that people have been having wildly different experiences and having real trouble even getting to the point. A point where you can get tested and doctors and nurses are frustrated to saying they can't even get their patients tested. I'm going to read a

3 (7m 15s):
statement from one of our quarantine nurses who works at a northern California Kaiser facility.

1 (7m 23s):
She said as a nurse, I'm very concerned that not enough is being done to stop the

3 (7m 29s):
spread of the coronavirus. I know because I am

1 (7m 33s):
currently sick in

3 (7m 34s):
quarantine after caring for a

1 (7m 36s):
patient who tested positive

3 (7m 38s):
Of I am awaiting permission from the federal government to allow for my testing even after my physician and county health professional ordered the

1 (7m 49s):
test. I'm here to tell you right now at one of the busiest hospitals in the country. I don't have it at my fingertips. I still have to call the Department of Health. I still have to make my case plead to test people. This is not good. Why is it been so difficult for people

3 (8m 4s):
man? There is a big story behind. Why the u.s. Is at the place it is in testing right now and I'm an investigative reporter. I don't really cover breaking you. So when my boss told me hey, I'd like you to get into coronavirus two weeks ago and to give some background. I have some experience covering the Ebola outbreak a few years ago. And also I've covered Zeke as well. And so one of the things that I was just curious about was that countries South Korea seem to be doing large volumes of testing and I live in New York City and I had seen Mayor de Blasio tweet that they were testing a patient.

3 (8m 51s):
I just thought hey what happened to that patient was impatient positive or negative and I had to go look and find and see if there was an answer and it wasn't like, you know a few hours later. There was a response and I just knew from the experience I've had before that that means that there. Sending samples to the CDC because it's taking days to get answers and I thought how is it that we're not able to test at the local level? And so that's what if sent me down this reporting Rabbit Hole of trying to understand how it is that South Korea is able to test in the tens of thousands, but the us as of last week still wasn't okay. We're going to take a quick break. Could you

1 (9m 30s):
tell us all about what you found out after it?

3 (9m 32s):
That sounds great. This is Advertiser content all natural organic a complete meal in a bottle 88% of us will pay more for Foods. We think are healthy, but are those front of the Box claims the real deal your world explained? This is Health claims explained presented by Daily Harvest splashy Bright Health claims on boxes and packages are pervasive because they work. One study showed that seeing the word natural made people think a product contain fewer calories and a group of scientists in Switzerland found that the pleasure and reward centers of the brain light up when we just perceive ourselves to be making healthy food choices.

3 (10m 20s):
This is problematic phrases, like low fat or low sugar can be misleading because taking out naturally occurring fat or sugar can mean putting in less healthy ingredients and words like natural and healthy. Easy, there are no formal rules around how to use them just being honest. So if you're trying to make good choices ignore the front of the box and go for the label on the back are the ingredients whole easy to identify and pronounce. They are a Daily Harvest Chef crafted delicious food delivered right to your door, their smoothies bowls and soups are made of real food without fillers or additives with seventy five syllables.

3 (11m 1s):
Go to Daily Harvest.com and enter promo code box for dollars off your first box that's promo code vo X at Daily Harvest.com

1 (11m 18s):
Hello, this is Jesse David Fox. I'm a senior editor at vulture and I host the podcast good one a podcast about jokes. It's a podcast about well jokes every week. I sit down with a comedian comedy writer or director. We list a one of their jokes and figure out how it all came together.

3 (11m 33s):
I don't sit down with a pen in the pad

1 (11m 35s):
and physically write down everything. I just that's not my style turns out comedians take jokes pretty seriously. I like all Joe. Okay, that's what I do. That's what I live for this really.

3 (11m 47s):
Nothing else I care

1 (11m 48s):
about it's all very revealing. What did you sort of learn from this? What was your takeaway? All right. Nothing guy.

3 (11m 56s):
I'm not a smart person

1 (11m 58s):
good one from vulture and the Box media podcast Network subscribe for free on Apple podcasts or on your favorite podcast app. You do not to use the puck is a

3 (12m 6s):
parade. Oh, what a great question Jesse David Fox

1 (12m 17s):
So Caroline before the break, you said that this kind of question of why testing in New York in particular was taking so long since you on this reporting Journey tell me what you found out when you tried to answer the question of why things were taken so long.

3 (12m 30s):
So what I found out was that the CDC had made this critical decision at some point to design its own testing kit, which is different from the the test that was endorsed by The Who which is used by many many countries around the world right now to test for The coronavirus. Sue the way the CDC decided to design its test was so that it wouldn't just test for the current coronavirus, which is one in a family of coronaviruses. It would also test for other coronaviruses in the documents. It says that is intended for the universal detection of SARS like coronaviruses and I can see why someone One somewhere might have thought this was a good idea which is you know, every few years a coronaviruses sort of pops up from the wild and transfers from animals into humans.

3 (13m 27s):
So why not design a fancy test that can be used in future years to catch, you know, all these other coronaviruses. Why not? When the CDC then shipped out its test kits to the public health labs around the country. It's shifted to a hundred Public Health Labs in early February. It turned out that this test kit was a little bit faulty. And so what we found was because of this decision, we wasted many weeks of time in the us where we could have had a test up and running and have testing started and even This day at this point in time as of Thursday morning only 67 of the hundred Labs have validated their test and got them working even now that it is sort of this more narrow specific test.

3 (14m 24s):
That's only testing for Kovac 19 because it takes a little while to set up the kit and the way I've been explaining this to people is it's kind of like a blue apron kit. That was CDC sends. It takes a little bit of assembly and a little bit of setup and it takes a little bit of expertise. It's not like a a power bar where it's like ready to go right out of the

1 (14m 44s):
wrapper. So now that they've figured it out are there lingering issues or is this all been resolved in the tests are flowing.

3 (14m 52s):
So now the tests are flowing. However, we then come to sort of the next snag which is there are only a hundred Public Health Labs. And even if you have stacks and Stacks and stacks of kits that are produced you have a Manpower issue and so the association of Public Health Labs has told me that Each lab on average can run a hundred samples a day. So you take a hundred Labs. You multiply that by a hundred samples a day and then you need to divide this by 2 because you run two samples per person so you can double check your result. So that comes out to 5,000 patients a day that is not enough for all America according to the experts that I talked to.

3 (15m 43s):
So this is why you've been hearing about all these hospitals and academic medical centers that have also been trying to come on board and we continue to work with the University of Washington biology lab and expect them to be ramping up their tests in the upcoming days. And so on Saturday last week the FDA which originally was saying you have to go through this really long and cumbersome process as an academic Medical Center to be But to test they said never mind that we're letting you start testing so long as you internally validate the test because they also realized that it's not going to be enough testing capacity. If we only rely on the Public Health Labs, you need large volumes of kits and you need Manpower and capacity and you sort of need both of those.

3 (16m 33s):
And so now I think we're in like full on ramp up mode. We have the Public Health Labs. We have the academic medical centers. And Quest and LabCorp, which are these huge testing Giants commercial companies are also getting into The Fray and they say that they should be able to come on board next week. So I fully expect that testing capacity will really be sort of escalating by next week and the week after and I'll just keep going up and up, but we really sort of got off to a very slow start. So Caroline we're

1 (17m 9s):
talking Thursday evening here and the At this point has confirmed 99 total cases with the delays we've had in getting testing kits out to people in people having real difficulty even getting tested beyond that trying to get through to their doctors trying to get through to their hospitals. I wonder how accurate do you think? Is that count from what you

3 (17m 31s):
know, are you asking me do you think there are 99 people in the US who are

1 (17m 34s):
infected kinda?

3 (17m 38s):
I do not think that there are 99 people in the US who are infected and that's it. I think that that is definitely an undercount at this point in time for a number of different reasons partly. It is because its slowness to testing but also because covet 19 is a relatively mild illness for many people. So what we've seen is that the sickest people seek out treatment and testing first and there are going to be a lot of people who Maybe Infected who may never go see their doctor because it doesn't really present as a very severe illness. So it's hard at this point to get a really good idea of the total number even globally of infected cases, like right now, this is all a ballpark estimate and the more data we have a better sense will have of actual the actual fatality rate.

3 (18m 29s):
So what I'm trying to tell people is what we do know is that it is more deadly than the regular regular seasonal flu and it is less. Deadly than something like

1 (18m 39s):
SARS. Caroline you grew up in Hong Kong during the SARS outbreak and you mentioned earlier that you covered the Ebola outbreak to how does the way this is being handled in the United States at this point compared to to those outbreaks.

3 (18m 56s):
So I was 13 when I was living in Hong Kong during Stars. So my perspective as a teenager was that I was kind of bummed to not be able to go to school because I missed my friends and I mainly paid attention to the Daily death toll because my parents told me that I wasn't allowed to go back to school until the daily death toll fell under two per

1 (19m 17s):
day your parents just made up this rule. That was the role they made

3 (19m 20s):
up. Yeah. That was that was little my parents came up with but you know, obviously that's the very teenager perspective but I did come to really gain a huge respect for the medical workers during that time there were medical staff doctors. Nurses in Hong Kong who worked around the clock and really truly just sacrificed themselves to the point that they succumbed and I remember that and I'm still moved by that to this day and we have seen that happen in Wuhan China with a Corona virus outbreak and and to me that drives me as a reporter now to think about what kind of support medical workers are good get it get in the US and it's a question.

3 (20m 5s):
I'm asking now as I am reporting and we're hearing so far, you know. Oh, very different experiences from nurses and doctors at different hospitals, but we want to hear more because that's a big concern of mine. You know how prepared Hospital staff are especially after a difficult flu season. I'm still trying to get a better sense of decision-making at the governmental level and understanding preparedness, you know, the big question that is just driving. My reporting generally is just is the u.s. Prepared and you know at all different levels and trying to see where we aren't prepared.

3 (20m 48s):
And if we aren't prepared, you know who is accountable because it is a matter of understanding our healthcare system and how it

1 (20m 56s):
intersects with government. Caroline Chen is a reporter at propublica. You can help her and her colleagues report on Kovac 19 right now. They want to hear from Frontline workers medical staff and experts dealing with covet 19 across the country. If you know one or you are one you can share stories of propublica dot org slash coronavirus. I'm Sean Rama's Forum the rest of the today explain team includes Halima. Sha la Mina al-saadi Jillian Weinberger Bridget. Karthi, and no I'm hassenfeld who does music to the mysterious brake master cylinder does music three Cecilia lay checks FAQs everyday a theme Shapiro played the role of the doctor today special thanks to Jeff geld this week and extra special thanks to Desmond's mom.

1 (21m 52s):
Liz Nelson who also happens to be the editorial director of vocs podcasts today explained is part of the VOX media podcast Network and we are having our first ever live show. So in these United States on April 29th, it's going to be a bit of a homecoming here in Washington DC at the 6th. And I you can buy your tickets now by visiting Sixth and i.org. That's SI xth a ND i.org and we'll be bringing the heat once more on April 29th come and say hello will do elbows instead of handshakes. What do you say?