1 (1s):
Yeah, I want to take my horse to the hotel Road. I'm gonna write till I can't no more

3 (11s):
add Grammy nominated to the list of accolades for Old Town Road and Loan Isaac's by now. The song has been everywhere for what seems like forever. But there was a time back in April of this year that the song needed to be explained because it is not just a song it is the story of this country in under three minutes it is Without a doubt the song of the year. So we thought we'd revisit the episode we made about it the day it hit the top of the charts. So Old Town Road is in the center of an interesting conversation now about who and what gets to count as country music Allegra Frank is a culture editor for Vox but as country continues to absorb other genres, like there's country rap a lot of country music artists are collaborating with pop stars.

3 (57s):
The traditionalists the purists who think Country as the Old Town Road, literally they start to question who gets to be in it. Allegra before we really get into the song. Who is this guy? Who is Lil. Nozick's he is a actually 20 year old rapper. He it's his birthday today today. Yeah today April 9th. It's his birthday. So happy birthday little Nas. Happy birthday little nozick's one more year and you can taste alcohol for the first time. Yes, and that will be very exciting. I think for his career. He is from Atlanta. Technically. His birth name is Montero Hill, but he has been calling himself little knobs.

3 (1m 38s):
For several years now and last year. He joined SoundCloud as many people do and by the end of the year in December. He released a song called Old Town Road. He bought a beat that had this sort of country sounding instrumental to it. And he said he was living at home feeling very lonely feeling like a lonely cowboy and he decided to pair that feeling with this sort of twang. Iggy beat that he bought so Old Town Road starts off very much as this, you know, deep-voiced owed to the simple life in the you know, dirt road path with your

1 (2m 22s):
horse

3 (2m 29s):
and then it breaks into what he calls

1 (2m 30s):
country trap or Susan the bag or stock is attached and his mighty black guy cabooses lack of mine. Riding on

3 (2m 39s):
a horse he uploads the song to SoundCloud back in December. Why is it just making waves in like recent weeks and even months he basically timed it well for this thing that's called the Yeehaw agenda know what the Yeehaw gender the Yeehaw agenda. So this woman Bri malandro she tweeted about how a lot of black artists are getting interested in sort of the country aesthetic. Okay, and the way that little Nas EX viras factored into that is while people were picking up on the good old cowboy cowgirl aesthetic. His song was circulating on Twitter and he made it available for free on Tech talk, which is this huge platform kind of akin to vine where people can lip-sync two songs and record themselves doing dance moves and people who already were kind of feeling this kind of ironic Cowboy Vibe turned Old Town Road into the Yeehaw challenge it became This new tick tock phenomenon where people would try and outdo each other dancing to Old Town Road.

3 (3m 45s):
So the way the song starts is it's very classic country and then beat

1 (3m 50s):
drops

3 (3m 53s):
and that's where all these videos get their comedy from. It's like what happens when the Beat Drops, right? Exactly. So people are kind of just like standing around and then they jump right time to the beat dropping and it cuts to them wearing cowboy outfits and doing like square dancing.

1 (4m 12s):
Oh, Do rocks this horse for them all from little nose X

3 (4m 17s):
continues to argue on Twitter? Like oh, I'm so happy to see all these people, you know, making memes and listening to the song but I'm serious about it like just because it's it can be funny and I'm funny doesn't mean it's a parody what happens after this song becomes such a huge meme on Tick-Tock in mid-march the Billboard charts come out and the song had become so so much of a viral hit that it actually appeared on the Billboard charts. It appeared on the hot rap hip-hop songs chart and the hot country songs chart and this is because a song like Old Town Road is getting streamed a ton on the places like Spotify and YouTube and SoundCloud and those streams now count a fair amount on Billboard, right?

3 (5m 4s):
Yes exactly. That was exciting for a lot of people. I mean, we don't often see black artists on The Country charts in general and we don't often see SoundCloud born rap adjacent songs charting so highly especially ones that really are just circulated through memes and the internet. Okay. So what happens next the song is starting to chart and it's rising on Billboard. Where does it go from there five staffers from billboard released an article in the publication and the majority of them wrote it off as oh, it's sort of a fluke it it's a joke the following A week it was gone from the country chart.

3 (5m 46s):
It was on the Hot 100 and the rap chart but Old Town Road was not on the country chart. Where was it on the Billboard charts when it got removed. So it was only on the chart for one week. So when it debuted it was already at number 19, which is to suggest that it would have kept climbing had they not removed it exactly how often does billboard remove songs that are climbing up. It starts very rarely. I mean people were starting to report on hey billboard has quietly. Stricken Old Town Road from the record what did billboard say they said while it incorporates references to Country and cowboy imagery. It does not Embrace enough elements of today's country music to chart in its current version.

3 (6m 27s):
How does little knobs respond to that? He said he was extremely disappointed when I found out billboard took it off the country charts like before like it was even taken off the country charts. I was just happy to be on Billboard at all, but then it was like I started to think I was like after like listening to others. Songs that's actually on that chart. It's like wait a minute. Something's not right, basically. This is the point in the story where this becomes about something bigger than country trap and Tick-Tock and fun internet memes because you've got a black artist in America whose charting in a very white music space and and his song gets quietly removed by a very powerful influential organization.

3 (7m 17s):
How much of this is about race? How much does the conversation then shift to race? So genius reached out? And of course billboard said oh no, it has nothing to do with his race. It has everything to do with the song and the lack thereof of country elements in it it immediately set off conversation, especially in the black Twitter Community country has often been very much protected. There's a big gatekeeping sort of vibe and Country. Music that prevents black artists from really penetrating the scene. There are some exceptions Hootie Hootie.

3 (7m 59s):
Yes. Exactly Darius Rucker. He's the big one

1 (8m 3s):
of Hootie and the Blowfish Fame. He's sort of spawned off from that band into a

3 (8m 13s):
solo career that has been very successful. But he has said yes, I do receive hate mail from people who say you don't belong here. You're not real country, you know, which essentially is people saying you don't look like us and you're not white but he has been an exception in the genre but Lumas X clearly subscribes to the if you can't beat them join them school of thought because Late last week. He drops a remix that totally changes the trajectory of this song again. So little nose X has a huge Twitter following and the News spread so far out that people like Achy Breaky Heart sensation and father of Miley Billy Ray Cyrus publicly tweeted at Lil nozick saying I think this is wrong and I'm a fan of your song and like your country.

3 (9m 5s):
You're an outlaw just like me really Ray Cyrus coming out so publicly luckily with his support Lil Nas X of course retweeted that they talked on the DL and they announced that they actually went in the studio together to remix the

1 (9m 18s):
song.

3 (9m 34s):
So what does that mean for the song? Is it is it going to get back on the country charts? So that's sort of the question. Now the only difference is Billy Ray Cyrus really just singing the main hook of the song and then singing a few more verses it otherwise is the exact same song but because there's a vaunted legend of country music. The question is will billboard consider this country now billboard has responded to that saying we're investigating the matter and we're paying attention to see if we should reinstate Old Town Road onto the chart. I personally don't have a lot of Hope because I think the Optics of allowing a Billy Ray Cyrus featured version.

3 (10m 17s):
That is otherwise exactly the same are not great, but it's interesting to hear billboard. Say we are thinking about this one more

1 (10m 26s):
time.

3 (10m 49s):
Charlie Harding, you're one of the hosts of vaux's Switched on pop podcast as well as a producer and songwriter yourself a big part of the controversy over. Old Town Road is about genre. How does one figure out the lines between genres between country and pop and Hip-Hop when I think about genre I typically think about three main components. There's a musical component. There's a commercial component and there's a cultural component. Well, let's start with the music. What should we be thinking about when we think about this song and how it fits into the musical genre of country or hip hop, I feel like the controversy right now is Is this thing actually country?

3 (11m 30s):
And so we have to Define? Well what is country music and if we look at the sort of musical components we can think about what are the instruments that you use whatever the tambor's the twang the sounds and what are the lyrical components? So is Old Town Road a Country Song by those three metrics. Let's take them one by one. So instrumentation country music is going to have a lot of acoustic instruments, but you know traditionally we're going to be some banjo maybe some mandolin. And here there's banjo.

1 (12m 2s):
So instruments check

3 (12m 5s):
Timbre that vocal twang that we expect in country music. It's in there. Like little nozick's has got a vocal twang that real nasal

1 (12m 13s):
sound. I got the horses in the bag or stock is attached.

3 (12m 18s):
When of course Billy Ray Cyrus has done the track you get that twang as well from someone who is a classic country

1 (12m 24s):
artist down cross town living like a rock star spend a lot of money on my moving says Gita Yeah total exactly. And then

3 (12m 34s):
finally we look at the lyrics. This is just full of country music lyrical

1 (12m 37s):
tropes.

3 (12m 44s):
You got to be on a road. You gotta have a cowboy hat, right? You gotta be wearing Wrangler jeans in this case, right? You got to be kind of sad. Yeah, totally. Lyrically. I think it has all of those essential components when I hear that vocal twang. I when I hear banjo I threw in the room like yeah, this is a country song. So what I'm hearing is yes, yeah, but how about the rest of it? How about that second metric you had commercial when we look at the history of where genre in pop music comes from we See that there are some not-so-pretty histories the short of it is that what is now known as R&B? So progenitor hip-hop was at one point called race music it was specifically for people that were of a specific race, whereas country music was called hillbilly music for people of another race.

3 (13m 34s):
And basically we had black and white music segregated along those lines with marketing definitions. So that labels would produce music for a specific. Cific racial audience. It was That explicit and we live with that history today. I guess that that sort of leads us into this conversation about the culture. Absolutely, you know little knobs X posted this on Soundcloud like he actually in the metadata said it was a country song. So there's a question about who gets to be the gatekeeper of declaring what genre you are really I think we're just seeing some casual or not. So casual racism about who is and what isn't country. I think that this gets much more complicated when we actually look at Sounds of contemporary country music which doesn't conform to that original classification of you have to have like banjos and a certain sound or certain twang because there's lots of contemporary music which is actually equally pulling from hip-hop sounds trap beats 808 all this and that and this is from very conventional white country Nashville artists.

3 (14m 37s):
That's right. Yeah. So the song that everyone's pointing to is Florida, Georgia Line meant to be with better rexha. And when you go into the chorus, the thing is a trap

1 (14m 48s):
saw.

3 (14m 55s):
Baby, laughs it's got an 808 beat. It's got stuttering hi-hats. The thing is a wild and successful crossover. So today I actually was like, I thought wouldn't it be interesting if I just like went down the country charts and see if there were other songs that were doing this or is like bevel Rex and Florida Line This is like a one off and I just found over and over all sorts of songs which didn't conform to the musical categories of country music right? So I found like Fillmore's Love that about you, which is another song which is just like it's got a straight ahead trap beat in it.

1 (15m 31s):
I then went off and looked at like Dan +

3 (15m 33s):
Shay their song all to myself doesn't really feature any standard country music instrumentation. And there's really no vocal twang to

1 (15m 41s):
it. I'm gonna sue the blue jeans joy and the way they're holding you so tight

3 (15m 51s):
And so when things on the country charts are leading into other generic qualities musically, it definitely feels like it's not appropriate to call out little nozick's for having a country sound which includes trap beats and sort of saying well that's that's not country. So what you're saying is there's already hip hop all over the country charts right now. Yeah, I mean hip-hop is the dominant musical Force everywhere and it has wildly influenced country music as have others. Honors, I hear EDM in country music I hear pop and country music. This is not old school banjo mandolin that kind of upright bass sound from decades pass.

3 (16m 33s):
It is contemporary popular music with subtle Nuance sounds that maybe make things sound country and often times. It feels like it's more about gatekeeping than it is necessarily about the actual quality of sound but all the songs and artists you're talking about are white Right, and then this black teenager came along who's a creature of the internet and he just sort of just exposed a whole world of hypocrisy. Absolutely and there is a history of country artist actually inviting black artists to perform with them. Right? So like Louis Armstrong has performed with Jimmie Rodgers and they had a hit blue yodel number

1 (17m 14s):
9.

3 (17m 22s):
Glen Campbell invited Stevie Wonder to sing blowing in the wind

1 (17m 36s):
Willie Nelson worked with

3 (17m 37s):
Snoop Dogg on a track called my medicine. There's all these examples of sort of like white artists bringing black artists into the country charts, which is accepted. I think there's also examples of black artists making country music. I think Ray Charles is modern sounds in country music is one of the most Central country albums of all time in which he really is demonstrating the historical crossover of these

1 (18m 9s):
musics. I mean Sean like I played in a country band. I love country

3 (18m 20s):
music. I just picked up the mandolin and I played in a country band. Well my buddy Nate what do the show with he was playing banjo? And I promise you nobody was concerned about whether or not we had like put in our time to become a country band. Whereas people are really concerned about little nozick's playing country music. I wonder why that is you know you hear so many stories about how streaming is killing the music industry how Spotify is destroying album sales for artists, but but is this Old Town Road story and example of how Spotify and SoundCloud and YouTube streams being considered in this sort of bigger picture of success in the music industry being an overall good thing because it's destroying Some of these Gatekeepers and some of these Norms in the industry that we're kind of garbage to begin with.

3 (19m 13s):
I think that this is the essential question about who gets to be a gatekeeper and the institutions like billboard might seem uneasy by the fact that there are other folks deciding whether or not something is or is not a certain genre. I want on Spotify the day and I was scrolling through just kind of browsing in their search section and the category country was next to the category Focus, which was I think maybe even below the category podcasts. These are not mutually exclusive and completely exhaustive categories. There is extremely as a lot of overlap and I think that today people listen as much by mood as they do by genre upending an entire way of thinking about the importance of these generic categories that pump up and chill are equally as important as country or hip-hop and how people might approach going to listening to their music it is changing the way You things chart where they end up and there's some uneasy cultural negotiation that needs to be done in order to decide who gets to claim.

3 (20m 19s):
What kind of music they're making and in that regard little nozick's is thus far the most unlikely hero of American culture in 2019. Absolutely. We have to also point out how amazing it is that this thing which was a meme that was commentary. Eon Cowboy culture and black identity that became an immediate overnight think piece which a aging country star than remixes like this thing is entirely of Our Moment. This is not old country music of a rural community.

3 (21m 3s):
This is the internet generation. Before we go one last amazing thing about this song. It's samples the song you're hearing right now. This song is called 34 ghosts for and it is by Nine Inch Nails, which is to say Trent Reznor and his songwriting partner Atticus Ross Share Credit with Montero Hill AKA loan Isaacs. Is on Old Town Road, which is to say We'll nozick's and Nine Inch Nails have the number one song in America right now and it's been remixed by Billy Ray Cyrus.

3 (21m 49s):
What a

1 (21m 49s):
world. Charlie Harding host switched on pop it's a

3 (22m 1s):
very good podcast about popular music and there are too few of those. It's also the newest member of the VOX media podcast Network. So hit subscribe sit back and wait for the bangers to drop every Tuesday today explained is also a member of the VOX media podcast Network the shows produced in association with Stitcher. I'm sure Rama's firm. My favorite country song is The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down by the band Irene. Noguchi is really into whatever you do by Brandi Carlile right now. No, I'm hassenfeld has Johnny Cash's Cocaine Blues Bridget McCarthy thinks about her heartbreak e 20s whenever here you come again by Dolly Parton comes on a theme Shapiro has a soft spot for the Sundance head version of Love Can Build a Bridge specifically his performance on The Voice from 2016 Hannah Bolanos likes rock star by Nickelback because there's just no telling foretaste folks the mysterious brake master cylinder.

3 (22m 55s):
Can't wait to climb the country charts himself and seona Petros. Her favorite country song is Old Town Road by Lil. Nozick's

1 (23m 4s):
I got the horses or stock is that is Maddie black. I can't nobody film.