0 (0s):
The biggest movie in the country is Barbie. Hi

1 (3s):
Barbie.

0 (4s):
The second biggest movie is Oppenheimer. But have you heard about the third biggest movie in the country? It's not Tom Cruise and Mission Impossible seven Dead Reckoning Part one. It's not Harrison Ford and Indiana Jones and The Dial of Destiny Part five. It's an action drama about fighting child sex trafficking called Sound of Freedom.

1 (30s):
How'd that make you feel?

2 (34s):
Giving a child is freedom.

1 (39s):
It felt good

0 (40s):
On today. Explained. We're gonna figure out how this grim movie you haven't seen a single billboard for is beating Tom Cruise and Indiana Jones at the box office.

3 (60s):
The 14th season of The Real Housewives of New York just premiered with an entirely new cast, and yet the show is just as addictive as it's always been. The

4 (1m 9s):
Thing about Housewives is it's a little bit like Saturday Night Live. As much as people kind of come in and go out of it, the franchise is stronger than any of the players.

3 (1m 22s):
We break down the lasting influence of The Real Housewives and we rank our favorites this week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast

5 (1m 34s):
On criminal We. bring you true crime stories told by people who know them best.

6 (1m 41s):
We didn't believe in setting fires 'cause that was too dangerous. We were, you know, a kind, a gentler kind of crooks, so to speak.

5 (1m 48s):
So the best plan you had was that you'd LaSow it? Yes.

7 (1m 52s):
Never imagined I'd use it for a camel.

5 (1m 56s):
I'm Phoebe Judge and this is Criminal Did. you have to say what was in the box.

1 (2m 2s):
Phoebe We told lies

5 (2m 4s):
Listen to criminal every week. wherever you get your podcasts

1 (2m 16s):
Today. Today,

2 (2m 18s):
Explain. Explain.

8 (2m 21s):
I'm John Jergensen and I'm an entertainment Reporter at The Wall. Street Journal.

0 (2m 24s):
We asked John over to tell us about the third biggest movie in the country.

8 (2m 29s):
Yeah.

0 (2m 29s):
This third movie is Sound of Freedom.

2 (2m 32s):
Yeah. That,

1 (2m 37s):
That's

2 (2m 37s):
The Sound of Freedom.

8 (2m 39s):
And you know, you could call it a dark horse in the box office race this year, except this is a movie that people didn't even see as in the race going into This summer. It just wasn't on most people's radars before it opened and before it did. Big Numbers. It's a crime thriller, kind of an old fashioned crime thriller about a government agent whose job is to deal with criminals who traffic in children

9 (3m 6s):
For Homeland security. you know, we can't go off rescuing Honduran kids in Columbia

8 (3m 11s):
And you know, he feels hemmed in by bureaucracy and the restrictions of government work. And it, it's based on the work of a, a real organization and a real person, Tim Ballard. And it's the hero. It's played by Jim Avizo, who many know from the passion of the Christ Jesus. We know him as Jesus and, and certain other things and, and the culture. He's been kind of a controversial figure in, in Hollywood because of things that he does in his personal life and things he says in his personal life. We

10 (3m 40s):
Are headed into the storm of all storms. Yes. This storm is upon us.

0 (3m 48s):
What did you think of it? Is it good? You saw it twice. So does that mean you'd wanna see it a third time?

8 (3m 54s):
I saw it twice. I think I, I think I got it. It's a fine movie. I'm not a film critic personally. I'd say it's a little overwrought and maybe there's not as much action as you might expect from the way it's framed in movie trailers and things like that. But it's a perfectly capable adult drama that does its job and, and, and it, it's, and it's well made.

0 (4m 14s):
Maybe more interesting than whether this movie is good or not is its backstory. And you wrote about this for The Wall, Street Journal. Where did this movie come from?

8 (4m 25s):
So the company behind this film is Angel Studios, and this is a Utah based content company run by a family who is part of the church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. They don't call themselves a faith-based studio, but all of their films are, I would say, faith adjacent. Their mission, they say is to amplify light through their storytelling. Huh? Also clean content that they want to give people as an alternative to Hollywood Fair.

11 (4m 54s):
Hollywood has no idea what type of content actually matters to you. 80% of Hollywood movies fail because they don't have a soul.

8 (5m 1s):
What they are known for are Bible stories, clean comedy. They're also known in the past for their fight against major Hollywood studios because their first business was to kind of provide this clean content of families. So they were taking Hollywood movies and essentially cleaning them up for people who didn't want cursing and nude scenes and violence and things like that in their family movies. Meaning

11 (5m 25s):
You can watch Wolf of Wall Street without Language, game of Thrones without nudity or Transformers, four without all of it. 'cause it's a terrible movie.

8 (5m 32s):
And as you can imagine, they quickly got sued by the major studios. So that's essentially the origin story of Angel Studios. That's really kind of the basis of their company. And then they took the shift into actually producing and distributing original content of their own.

11 (5m 46s):
Angel Studios has produced content that makes a lot of money, but more importantly, it's content that feeds the soul. After watching the Chosen, John said, I've never felt more connected to Jesus and his disciples than I did watching The Chosen.

8 (5m 59s):
That's what kind of leads us up to Sound of Freedom now. Okay. So how does this company that's interested in making sort of Hollywood content more family friendly end up making a movie about sex trafficking? Or do they make it Sound of Freedom essentially started as a Hollywood film, but then took a very un Hollywood path into theaters. The film was first connected to Fox in Latin America, which had a deal to distribute the film. And then as filmmakers were working on it, that's when the merger with Disney happened.

8 (6m 40s):
And as soon as Disney came together with Fox, lots of films got lost in the mix, got dropped along the way, and this was one of 'em. So that left the filmmakers with this project. They had finished filming, but no one to put it out in theaters. No one to distribute it. The filmmakers said they went to all the various studios, streamers tried to sell it, no one was buying. And then through mutual acquaintances, including Tim Ballard, the subject of film, the filmmakers connected with Angel Studios. And within days they had agreed on a deal to put this movie into the angel system. And so Angel moved very, very quickly this past spring to get the film to its base of users called the Angel Guild.

8 (7m 29s):
These are people who essentially vote on whether Angels should back a project. The Angel Guild said yes. Angel Studios moved very quickly then to raise the money that was required. So Angel Studios said, we need $5 million to do this. That's kind of the minimum level they needed to get this film into theaters and to start promoting it. So they go out to their, their community that they've built over the years and they said, here is a public offering for this film. We want to raise $5 million. And so users, their user base came to this project in Foxx. They, within about two weeks, they had raised $5 million and people were putting in anywhere from a hundred bucks of their own to 10,000 or $25,000.

8 (8m 18s):
These are individual investors in the film through this SS e c fundraising opportunity. And that's how Angel raised the money to put this film into theaters. If you haven't gone and seen the Sound of Freedom, please do, please go see it and bring as many people as you can. Go to angel.com/freedom topay it forward. I'm about to do that. You can get free tickets. This needs to be seen all around the world. Okay. So it drops in movie theaters appropriately for a movie called Sound of Freedom on the 4th of July.

8 (9m 1s):
It's up against Harrison Ford and Indiana Jones. How does it do The film does great. Do that. That's the Sound of Freedom. I mean, forget Indiana Jones at this point. It's beating Mission Impossible, which came out later. you know, it's a fresher film and it's got the biggest movie star in the world behind it. And Sound of Freedom on a day-to-day basis is, is beating it at the box office. Here we are about three weeks after its release, it has made about $127 million at the domestic box office.

8 (9m 43s):
This is a movie that was made for about 14 and a half million dollars. That was its production budget, you know, a very, very modestly made film.

0 (9m 52s):
And this $127 million box office, it's a figure so staggering that it's raising eyebrows. People don't believe it. People think there's some conspiracies at play here. Correct.

8 (10m 6s):
I think a lot of people not just are surprised that this movie to them came out of nowhere. And of course that raises skepticism. There's a couple different things happening here. One is that in the case of faith-based films especially, or faith adjacent films as I guess you would call this, there is often a dynamic where churches, other institutions that support these films will buy out a theater will, you know, rent a whole theater to allow their organization members to go see this film for free because they support the message. So in this is not unusual for faith-based films to be sold out in theaters and then have the theaters themselves be somewhat empty.

8 (10m 55s):
Huh? That may have been the case, I think in the beginning for this film that may have happened. And certainly on social media, you can find reports of people you know, documenting, sold out theaters that were somewhat empty for this film, went

13 (11m 10s):
To go watch Sound of Freedom and the employee said, we bought the last two seats for this showing. Look how empty it is.

8 (11m 17s):
But I am highly skeptical that this is some kind of conspiracy of, you know, papering these, the movie theaters just to kind of boost the box office revenue. There may have been kind of a, a lag in the cultural phenomenon around this film. Perhaps, you know, the, the buyouts and the, the movie theater rentals did happen in some places. But I think what has occurred since then is what you often see, you know, a hit, begets hit and word of mouth begets more word of mouth. And then once the, the hit status of the film kind of hits the culture and the news media, people will get curious and they do go out to see this film.

8 (12m 3s):
So it, there's no, there's no denying that this has created this groundswell. And also landed at a time where I think conservative moviegoers and conservative media we're looking for something to champion and we're looking for something to rally around. And this, this film kind of created a, you know, a, a unifying cause. Who doesn't want to go out and see a popcorn film for a good cause?

0 (12m 38s):
John Jurgensen, wall Street Journal. It turns out there are all sorts of people who don't want to go see a popcorn film for a good cause. We're gonna hear from one of them in a minute on today, explained,

14 (13m 2s):
Listen, even if you don't have student loans yourself, you probably know someone that does. Which means you also know the system is broken. But have you ever wondered how exactly it got this way?

15 (13m 17s):
There's a high demand for college because of this huge economic shift in the US economy and the global economy, and that you have this like, you know, free flowing access to credit and then you had uninformed consumers. I mean, this is just a recipe for disaster.

14 (13m 36s):
Your student loan debt. And then some explained that's this week on the weeds. Listen, wherever you get your podcasts,

5 (13m 46s):
Can you describe what he-man looks like?

16 (13m 51s):
Okay. He-man, muscle biking ish, white guy

5 (13m 57s):
Wiley Easton's son loved playing with his He-Man toys. As a little kid in the eighties,

16 (14m 3s):
I think I said something like, oh, you could, you could be a superhero too. And he said, no, I can't be a superhero because I'm not white.

5 (14m 14s):
And that's when Wiley Easton decided to make a black superhero toy for her son and other kids like him.

17 (14m 21s):
I just remember my mom running, rushing to me, showing me a little article about a figure that looked like he man, but he was black.

5 (14m 31s):
Hear the story of Sun Man and his fans on the latest episode of This Is Love, listen wherever you get your podcasts.

18 (14m 43s):
Just a quick heads up, this part of the show is gonna feature some talk about sex trafficking

0 (14m 48s):
Today. Explained is Back Sound of Freedom is the surprise hit of the summer. Part of that has to do with faith groups buying out theaters and paying tickets forward to people who might not usually go to the movies. But undoubtedly, a big part of that success has to do with people wanting to see a movie that's got a message. And the message here is that child sex trafficking is heinous and needs to be stopped. No arguments, but not everyone is jazzed to see Sound of Freedom as a vessel for that message because of the real life man and organization this movie's about. The Man is Tim Ballard. The organization is Operation Underground Railroad, o u r, Writer Meg Conley knows them both.

0 (15m 34s):
So

19 (15m 34s):
Unfortunately, I have some personal experience with the organization behind the movie Operation Underground Railroad. In 2014, I went on what they called a jump, which was basically a human trafficking raid that was supposed to be one step in saving the world from what they called the enslavement of children like through human trafficking. I was 28 years old. My dad, who was my best friend, he had just died. I had two young children. I was a stay-at-home mom, kind of grappling with the isolation of like care work in America.

19 (16m 19s):
And I was just lost. you know, there was a lot of grief, there was a lot of confusion. And I wanted a purpose. I think that one way to get through grief and isolation is to feel like you're doing good work in the world. And the grief and isolation was making even, you know, that difficult for me to find. So I get a call one afternoon from this man named Tim Ballard, who had founded Operation Underground Railroad. I'd never spoken to him before, but he did attend church with my parents, which is I think how he knew about me at the time.

19 (17m 6s):
I was writing, I guess what they were calling like a mommy blog. And Operation Underground Railroad was a relatively new organization, and I think he wanted some publicity for it. And so when he called me, he asked if I was interested on going on a human trafficking raid with the organization in the Dominican Republic, because he said he really liked my work and he thought that I articulated things with insight, that I was a good observer and he wanted me to document the work that they were doing to save children. Ballard's whole pitch at the time, which I was too naive to question, was that he was the ultimate authority on this.

19 (17m 55s):
He talked a lot about how he had worked for Homeland Security and that he had been trying to get rid of human trafficking this way through like official government channels, but they weren't willing to do the work like he was. So I believed him and who doesn't wanna save the children? It, it felt scary to go with him. But I said yes, because I felt like it would be selfish to say no. We were both members of the church of Jesus Christ, of Latter Day Saints at the time. I no longer attend. But there was also a power dynamic there that's hard to explain to people outside of that religion. The Mormon church, which is like how most people know it has a male only priesthood, which means like the authority of God only works through men and women function as supports.

19 (18m 47s):
There was also a sense that this was like, hmm. A divine call to action along with like maybe a moral one. When we get to the Dominican Republic, there's like a long ride to the house where the raid is gonna take place. And when I get to the house, there's like a camera crew there, which surprised me. And I'm told that they film all their jumps because they want to make a a TV series about all of their anti-trafficking work to raise awareness and get, get more people involved both within their organization and outside their organization with anti-trafficking efforts.

19 (19m 35s):
They have these meetings in the house, like in a back room where that like the, you know, the staff can't see what's going on and there's like a whiteboard and Tim Ballard is standing by the whiteboard and there's like a drawing of the house, like a layout of the house. It is like a movie. And Tim Ballard is, you know, he is like putting a dozen ish people there who are part of the jump. And they're all these like men like with like very tight t-shirt. Like they do a lot of CrossFit. Like these are guys who do a lot of CrossFit, it's 2014 CrossFit is their journey. So the next day the kids are gonna be there, you know, in an hour or two.

19 (20m 16s):
And my job is to blow up balloons. So it looks like we're having a party because they want the traffickers when they come in with the kids to be very sure that like, this is a sex trafficking party where like these men and this one woman I guess are here to assault these kids. The traffickers pull up. So they've rented a bus, the o u R has rented a bus and picked up the traffickers. Were, and it's, it's several people trafficking these kids with kind of one lead guy. And there are 26 kids who end up showing, like being brought to the bus.

19 (20m 57s):
We get word that they're pulling up. And so I am sent outside to the pool where there's like a stack of soda cans and kids start filing out to the pool area. They're mostly middle school to high school age. Some kids jump into the pool. I I hand other kids soda and I feel I'm, I'm nauseated because I don't understand now that I'm confronted with these children, I realize I, I don't understand what led them to that bus. I get what Tim has told me, Tim has told me that they come a couple days ahead of time and kind of like spread the word that they're looking for trafficked kids.

19 (21m 41s):
He says that once this happens, they're approached by, you know, in every location where they do this, they're approached by a trafficker who says, you know, like, I can get you kids if you want a party. And then it goes from there. But I don't understand, I realize at that point, like, don don't understand where these kids were before the trafficker meets them at the bus. It's kind of the first time where I'm like, oh, I don't know enough to be here.

19 (22m 23s):
Ballard is inside with the traffickers and he's supposed to be like negotiating the price of like each, there's no good word here, service I guess that will be like quote unquote, like provided by each child. But really he's negotiating the price of like each violation of each child, right? Like that would be the correct terminology. Like each victimization of each child. And I think that that is going to wrap up and you know, I won't see any of it. But then one of the o u r members opens the back door and calls out to me and says, Meg, Tim wants you inside.

19 (23m 10s):
I don't wanna go inside, but I also don't know how to say no. So I say yes, and I walk inside And Ballard's sitting inside and he's like got, there's like money on like a table in front of him and he's sitting and he is talking with them and laughing. And I'm watching him, you know, count money onto this coffee table and I'm kind of standing towards the back of the room and I'm like, okay. He just wants me in here to observe. And so if I can just get like, far enough away from everything that's happening, like this is still okay. But the raid starts and it's terrifying.

19 (23m 57s):
There's a lot of shouting and a lot of screaming and like Tim's yelling, like, like, who's sold me out? Or like, who ratted like, like a movie. And I, I, I move quickly to get to the back door because I just, I wanna be out by the pool. That's where I was supposed to be. I don't wanna be here. And when I open the back door, there's a, a law enforcement person standing there with a very, very, very large gun. And he yells at me to like get back inside and get down. And so like I'm forced onto the ground, like onto those beige tiles and like face down and like I'm handcuffed.

19 (24m 44s):
And the whole time at this point, like once the raid has started, they're not just relying on like the hidden cameras anymore. The the camera crew has come out and they're moving around the room filming the whole thing. And I am face down on the ground in this room I was never supposed to be in. And there's like I can outta the corner of my eye, like see a camera like sweeping over me

0 (25m 8s):
And that footage is on YouTube. I watched it yesterday. I saw your face.

19 (25m 13s):
Yeah, it's insane. you know, I get home and it takes me a long time to understand like What happened and like there're just little realizations that eventually become like a, become a whole answer. In 2015, I decided to learn more about human trafficking, which was still kind of difficult to do. In 2014 after the raid, I talked to one human trafficking expert who's not involved with O U R. And when I explain everything that happened, they say like, do you realize, you do realize how wrong all of that was, right? Like none of that was right.

0 (25m 54s):
Tell me what you learned about this style of, of sort of vigilante sex trafficking, policing. I mean, how many of those girls that were at that house that day in 2014 had a history of being involved in this kind of work? Yeah,

19 (26m 13s):
So after the Sting I asked like, where are the 26? So there were 26 kids and at the time they're telling me it's 26 kids. It ends up being not everyone's, not every person there was underage. And I'm told that at the time that they've all been, they've all been, you know, trafficked over and over again. I find out later that that's not true. I mean, these kind of anti-trafficking raids, they create demand where there isn't always demand. At least two of the kids on that raid had never been trafficked before. That was the first time. Hmm. Which means that like we created trauma for them they may never have experienced.

19 (26m 56s):
And then, and then after the raid, I think it was in 2015, foreign policy comes out with a story about O U R and, and it, and it includes reporting on this raid. And I find out that after this operation, a, a local organization called the National Council for Children in Adolescents, like they're supposed to do the aftercare and they realize like you brought us 20 ish kids. We do not have the capacity to provide like services for this many people. We cannot provide basically like safety. And so the kids were released like within a, a week or two and, and lost, like nobody knows What happened to, to many of them, which means that like they got a soda and like a swim from us.

0 (27m 51s):
So potentially they may have been back on the streets Yes. Being sex trafficked again in, in as much as two weeks.

19 (28m 0s):
Yes. Maybe by another group doing like another military raid, like anti-trafficking, military raid, like creating demand.

0 (28m 11s):
That was nearly 10 years ago. Right. To to your knowledge, you know, how is this organization, operation Underground Railroad, o u r evolved since then?

19 (28m 25s):
I think they've gotten better at appearances slightly. So Tim Ballard, he, as I watched over the years, I was able, I was able to understand, you know, by 20 16, 20 17, after a lot of research and a lot of therapy, like everything that was wrong with that raid, but also with the, the model as a whole, it doesn't work. We know that like anti-trafficking raid don't work. We know that the people like the traffickers who are arrested a lot of the time, they're usually small fish and another small fish comes in and like takes their place.

19 (29m 13s):
This doesn't like address like some of the like actual, like the people in charge of like some of the cartels that are actually actually like really running like human trafficking rings. Like that is, that is real. But like this does not do anything to stop that. It just means like someone else is going to traffic kids next time. But it also doesn't prevent, it doesn't prevent human trafficking. Like we, we know what prevents human trafficking, social safety nets prevent human trafficking. What Tim Ballard does does not prevent human trafficking. What it does do is create a cult of personality and it turns the world into Star Wars.

19 (30m 6s):
They're a myth-making engine. Like they exist to generate a world in which bad things only happen in quote unquote, like the special world, which happens to be according to o U R. Not America. America is like the ordinary world where everything is okay, but the special world, the place where you experience like trials, but also your transformation that is anywhere where white men are not like the main demographic.

19 (30m 51s):
Anyone who follows Ballard or is part of the organization, they're on the light side and anybody who doesn't is on the dark side.

0 (31m 22s):
Meg Conley writes a newsletter called Home Culture. You can also find her writing at Harper's Bazaar and Slate, where in 2021 she wrote about her experience with Operation Underground Railroad. The essay is titled called By God. And in it you'll find a comment from o u r about Meg's experience. They said, as any other successful organization does, we have evolved and are continually working to professionally improve our standard operating methods and practices. Part of that evolution, perhaps Vice News reported last week that Tim Ballard, the guy whose story Sound of Freedom, is based on stepped away from Operation Underground Freedom, the organization he founded after an investigation into claims made about him by multiple employees.

0 (32m 9s):
Vice News is the place to read about O u R and Tim Ballard. If you wanna know more vice.com. Our show today was produced by Hady Mawajdeh, edited by Matthew Collette. Fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Michael Rayfield, with help from Patrick Boyd. I'm Sean Ramez firm and this is today explained.