0 (2s):
A very divided South Korea just elected a new president.

1 (6s):
It was a closest election in south Korean history. The margin of victory for you was about 0.7%.

0 (12s):
His name is <em></em> he's conservative. He's never held office before. And his campaign strategy was lean in to divisiveness.

2 (22s):
Mr. <em></em> is a self-proclaimed anti-feminist. He wants to abolish south Korea's ministry of gender equality.

0 (29s):
The thing is with most of the world's attention focused on Russia and Ukraine, fewer people were paying attention than you might expect, even though the stakes are very high because South Korea elected a Hawk, right? As North Korea is making some worrying moves on its nuclear weapons program on today's show. Are we too distracted to see a potential crisis unfolding in the Koreas I'm Noel king? This is today explained

4 (1m 2s):
Support for the show. Today comes from a podcast called are you sleeping? It's from, you'll never believe this, the good people over at mattress firm. And it's produced by our friends over at Vox. Creative. Are you sleeping is diving into some of those fascinating real life sleep stories you've ever heard because no matter your sleep story, you are not alone. Check out the, are you sleeping series trailer now? And don't forget to subscribe

0 (1m 41s):
Nathan Park fellow at the young Institute. What do we know about south Korea's new precedent, you and <em></em> what kind of guy is he?

1 (1m 47s):
The confusing thing about humans, right? Is that is not a particularly charismatic person during the campaign trail. His nickname was a gaffer day. He had this infamous episode where he was on live television.

5 (2m 3s):
Mr. <em></em> presidential candidate, four people power party will share his vision for Korea,

1 (2m 9s):
But he was not given a prompt to speak with. So he was just standing there on live television, frozen solid for about more than two minutes

5 (2m 22s):
It's to .

0 (2m 27s):
Okay. He froze up on TV. What I'm hearing is not a natural politician, so people I'm guessing must have been voting on issues, not on personalities. What were the issues at stake in this election?

1 (2m 41s):
I'd say there were two. One is the rising real estate tax. So wound Jane government, the current government delivered a world-class response to the COVID-19 pandemic. But the issue is that part of the COVID relief was low interest rate and access to easy credit. In the United States, we would see a huge rise in the stock, but South Korea, where the stock market is not as well developed. All that money went to real estate that led to a skyrocketing housing prices, especially in Seoul, the biggest city.

7 (3m 23s):
So I trusted and waited for the moon Jae in government, but the price of housing has more than doubled. And I can't even afford the rent.

1 (3m 30s):
It really very upset. The younger voters were trying to afford their first home.

7 (3m 35s):
I have no hope of buying a home and soul in the future,

1 (3m 38s):
But it's not as if the homeowners are happy that their housing value on the top because they are subject to a progressive real estate taxation, which means that their real estate tax rose significantly during this period too.

0 (3m 56s):
So people are fed up over the economy, specifically over housing. And you said there were two issues that this election was really about. What was the second?

1 (4m 6s):
The other issue is this gender strife issue. We started seeing in South Korea, a very strong conservative turn for young men voters. And this is coinciding with emergence of this very aggressive aggrieved type of sexism among young men in South Korea,

9 (4m 30s):
Men had always considered themselves to be the breadwinner, but this began to change Radical feminists took advantage of this

8 (4m 39s):
Situation.

1 (4m 41s):
They voted for conservative candidates who promised essentially sexist government policies and opposing feminism for these young men was the primary motivating factor for their political stance

9 (4m 56s):
In this political atmosphere. Men lost their place in society. Oh

8 (5m 1s):
Well, ,

9 (5m 4s):
It's about power balance.

0 (5m 6s):
The primary motivating factor. What were the policies that, that opposed feminism

1 (5m 11s):
Headline item that the president elect you and is continuing to push is abolishing a cabinet ministry in South Korea called ministry of gender equality and family, which these massages young men consider it to be a feminist cabinet position. They also want to get rid of gender based affirmative action quotas, which is rather ironic when you look at it, because a lot of times it's actually men who benefit from those quotas because women, a lot of times end up testing better.

10 (5m 48s):
She actively courted votes among anti feminists promised to raise penalties, will falsely reporting sex crimes and blamed a low birth rates on the rise of the feminist movement.

0 (6m 1s):
You've got young men in their twenties who are aggrieved. They're being very clear about the form in which they want their grievances to take abolishing a ministry changing laws around reporting of, of sexual assault. How did the winning campaign managed to tap into this sentiment of, of as you call it misogyny?

1 (6m 22s):
So there's a key figure in this key figure in the conservative party. And his name is legions Hawk. He's the chairman of the conservative party. And that itself is somewhat extraordinary because when you say a party chairman in the context of south Korean politics, you're talking, you're usually talking about this gray beard multiterm legislator. Who's like in his sixties or seventies, who could potentially be a presidential candidate. Whereas this person Legion sock is 36 years old, has no electoral experience. He ran three times and lost all of his elections.

1 (7m 4s):
What is primarily known for is being a conservative pundit on television catering to this misogynist grievances. And he was essentially the architect of the campaign plan for you. And to campaign to these young men,

0 (7m 22s):
Is there kind of an analog to this sexist pundit in the United States? Is there someone that he reminds us of?

1 (7m 28s):
He loves to remind everyone that he attended Harvard. That to me reminds me someone like Ben Shapiro

11 (7m 35s):
Whores in this house. There's some whores in this house. There's some whores in this house. This is what feminist platform for,

1 (7m 40s):
Or the fact that he has this sort of bigotry based political philosophy that animates the president-elect, who won in a very narrow election. That reminds me of someone like Steven Miller or Steve Bannon during the Trump presidency.

12 (7m 59s):
Hillary Clinton has been the single greatest purveyor of disinformation in the history of our country, what she did to this democracy, what she did to president Trump it's criminal.

0 (8m 10s):
It sounds as though the thing that helps the conservative candidate win this election was just straight up misogyny.

1 (8m 18s):
It's misogyny in real estate taxes. It's those two factors, which is unfortunate in my view,

0 (8m 24s):
All of this seems to be reminiscent of some things that have gone on in the United States over the last years. And I'm wondering, is there a sense in South Korea, or do you have a sense that the United States exported a kind of grievance politics to South Korea or did South Korea come up with this independent of what's going on here in the U S

1 (8m 45s):
My view south Korean politics is actually sort of chronologically ahead of American politics because in the internet came around there earlier South Korea had nationwide broadband internet by the mid to late 1990s United States. And the rest of the world was still relying on dialogue. So sort of political culture of the internet, the online political culture arose in South Korea faster than anywhere else in the world. This aggrieved misogyny turning into a political force, I think is a, might be a preview of what might be coming

0 (9m 24s):
In the United States. Yes, We have talked about the domestic issues, real estate taxes and misogyny a lot there, but I would imagine that south Korean voters, when they choose a president are also choosing a president who they understand can deal with the question of North Korea.

1 (9m 46s):
One very interesting feature of this election was that you, the president in leg ran this very nihilistic campaign where he did not give all that much specifics for any of his campaign platform. And when you ran opinion polls sort of specifically asking which candidate is more suited to handle this issue, that issue, right issues or the economy issues of national defense and things like that. Lee J Milan would win. So the leave voters, the liberal voters were probably voting based on the perceived ideas of competence in the face of a crisis, the exit polls bear it out when they were asked, why did you vote for this candidate?

1 (10m 33s):
Because we wanted a competent candidate. Whereas the voters who voted for you all essentially said, we just wanted a different administration.

0 (10m 46s):
Wow. What is happening with our neighbor to the north, as threatening as it may feel to the rest of the world? What we're concerned about here is the domestic stuff.

1 (10m 57s):
That's exactly right.

0 (11m 4s):
Coming up. What's happening in North Korea while the world isn't paying so much attention

4 (11m 23s):
Support for the show today, as you may have heard comes from, are you sleeping? It's a new podcast from the people over at mattress firm produced in partnership with the people over at Vox, creative and mattress firm used to do ads on today, explained you might recall. Some people even took to calling me Shaun mattress firm, cause it kind of rhymes with Rama's firm. But, but now they're back to find out how people are sleeping in this country. This podcast pulls back the covers on all of it. If you will join your host, Kate Berlanti, as she explores fascinating, real life stories with a bunch of sleep experts, a woman composes music in her dreams.

4 (12m 6s):
A man tries to keep his life on track while sleeping in his car. And sisters learned the truth behind why they don't seem to need much sleep at all. I can relate to that. Check out the series trailer now and subscribe to our you sleeping wherever you listen to your podcasts. Again, the show is called, are you sleeping? Shaun mattress from out

0 (12m 41s):
Sumi. Terry is an expert on the Koreas. She's currently a director at the Wilson center, which is a think tank in DC and Sumi. You've been worrying about North Korea for reasons that you're going to explain, but we've just talked about south Korea's new president who will certainly have to deal with the north. He'll be running a very divided country. What does that mean for his ability to govern?

2 (13m 1s):
Well, it's going to make it very challenging for him. He doesn't really have a mandate of the public society is deeply divided along the generational line, along the regional line, along the gender line. And of course the ruling party still has a majority in the parliament, which is going to make it very difficult for you to govern.

0 (13m 23s):
So presumably one of the first things he'll have to deal with is North Korea. The last time the Western world was really focused on the Koreas was when president Trump went to meet Kim Jong-un

13 (13m 35s):
President. Trump says North Korea wanted too much to end its nuclear program. So he walked away.

14 (13m 40s):
Basically they wanted the sanctions lifted in their entirety and we couldn't do that.

0 (13m 46s):
What has North Korea been up to since then,

2 (13m 49s):
Since then, they've been committed to expanding and modernizing their nuclear missile program. Of course, you know that Kim Jong-un still values nuclear weapons as critical for regional survival. It's a military asset. It's an insurance policy. It's a source of power and prestige for Kim Jong-un. They've been non-stop working on the program and you've seen very recently that North Korea has conducted several different types of missile tests.

15 (14m 17s):
The United States and South Korea are accusing North Korea of testing, a powerful new long range missile system. Washington says it is a serious escalation,

2 (14m 25s):
But of course we didn't pay attention because we were engaged in this Russia Ukraine crisis.

0 (14m 32s):
Tell me a bit more about how Russia and Ukraine are perhaps distracting the United States from what's going on in North Korea and what the implication of that might be.

2 (14m 40s):
Well, the Biden administration and the world is completely distracted. Understandably, which means that North Korea will take advantage to conduct provocations of their own. Even in ICBM, Intercontinental, ballistic missile tests or nuclear tests. I think now Kim Jong-un has a wide open pathway for more robust missile testing without any fear of consequence, right? Particularly consequences from the United nations security council. It's not like Russia is going to do anything to stop them, or even China, China and Russia were already proposing in December, 2022 weekend United nations security council sanctions on North Korea.

2 (15m 21s):
So they were already working on their program. They have reasons to test beyond this Russia Ukraine crisis, but the timing is right.

0 (15m 30s):
Okay. So North Korea is thrilled by the distraction. I wonder is North Korea drawing any other lessons from the war happening in Ukraine right now, of

2 (15m 39s):
Course, Watching this crisis, Kim Jong-un can only calculate that if you crane still had nuclear weapons, Russia would not have to attack it. Right? So I think this would just make him all the more determined to hold on to, or even expand his, his arsenal of nuclear weapons already. There, there were lessons from the past, right? There was Iraq

16 (16m 2s):
As news of Saddam Hussein's execution spreads across the globe. Many Iraqis watch the execution on television.

2 (16m 9s):
It was Libya

17 (16m 10s):
Overnight. The body of the dictator was placed on the ground for all in city of Misrata to see for themselves. There he is. Crowd surrounding him. The last bloody moments of his life, show him wounded and begging for mercy.

2 (16m 27s):
The lessons from those situations where that leaders who give up nuclear program has gets overthrown and killed. Now that lesson has been just reaffirmed by this crisis in Ukraine,

0 (16m 44s):
And to put an even finer point on it. Didn't Ukraine give up its nuclear weapons. The same year that North Korea negotiated a bilateral agreement on nukes with the U S

2 (16m 55s):
That's right, less than two months after North Korea signed a bilateral agreement called the agreed framework with the United States to freeze operations and construction of nuclear reactors. In October, 1994, Ukraine, along with fellow post-Soviet Republic, speller, ruse, and Kazakhstan agreed to give up its nuclear weapons under the Budapest memorandum,

18 (17m 20s):
Ukraine, formally renounced nuclear arms by joining the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. Ukraine did almost 2000 warheads when the Soviet union collapsed in 1991,

2 (17m 31s):
And you return the other signatories of the agreement, right? The United States, Britain and Russia promised to guarantee territorial integrity of the states

19 (17m 40s):
And fix once claimed that the nuclear threat would actually grow after the Soviet union dissolved, but because of the wisdom and statesmanship or the leaders who joined me here, the skeptics had been proven wrong.

2 (17m 55s):
Of course, in 2014, Putin invaded Ukraine, he Anna's creamier and fomented of pro Russian insurgency in the east. Now of course, Putin has invaded Ukraine on a much larger scale. And again, watching this crisis, what can Kim conclude from this except to say, I need to hold on to the nukes. That's the only way we can survive.

0 (18m 18s):
And what is the point of the testing that he's doing? Is that a warning of sorts?

2 (18m 23s):
It's not only a warning, but they need to test to genuinely make progress on their, on their program. Right? So although it is a warning and it does increase their leverage when they do return to negotiations, but it's more than that. They do need to test to continually modernize and expand their program. Okay.

0 (18m 45s):
Okay. What has the new south Korean president said about his plan for dealing with North Korea?

2 (18m 51s):
The conservatives are usually tougher and he did himself say, he's not going to just bend over backwards. Like the moon administration has done to engage with North Korea, that he does not believe in talks for just sake of talks. That if there is any kind of engagement, it has to correspond with, like, because North Korea took steps to denuclearize. So I'm concerned that into Korea relations will deteriorate further. We just talked about how north Koreans have just recently tested something, right? They nobody paid attention to, because of this. Russia has invasion. They in now the report just came out that they likely tested something called post boost vehicle.

2 (19m 33s):
Something called a bus. That's used to deliver multiple nuclear warheads from a large ICBM, like passing 17. That's a big monster sized ICBM and bigger than the ones that Kim Jong UN launched in 2017. Now he showed us this ice beam, a very big ICM on October 20, 20 parade or nuclear weapon that can carry multiple warheads. I'm very concerned that they're going to test it. April 15th is chemo songs, birthday, a good day to test such a weapon. So I'm afraid that North Korea is going to be the sleeper crisis of this year.

0 (20m 10s):
Wow. What does the Biden administration think about this new south Korean president at the same time that North Korea is conducting what appear to be very high stakes missile tests,

2 (20m 20s):
The Biden administration. I'm sure welcomes this president. And I'm sure that Washington North Korea policy is going to be more aligned with souls.

18 (20m 31s):
South Korea, president elect you and secure vows to forge closer ties with the United States in the face of North Korea is increasing missile activity.

2 (20m 40s):
Frankly, president <em></em> policy was too accommodating to North Korea. You know, talking about how we need to give North Korea peace declaration in the middle of all these weapons tests and when no progress has been made on denuclearization front. So I'm sure the pilot administration likes what they're hearing from the new president. He like Yoon and his camp. The problem is Washington have very few options. As we contemplate response to all this, you know, north Korea's nuclear program has bedeviled five us presidents. It's not even by not immunizations fall. This problem goes off, you know, over many, many decades, but the goal of the new creation remains remote as ever.

2 (21m 25s):
And you know what option is there? We already tried bilateral negotiation that produced a reef framework. We tried multilateral negotiations, six party talks process. We try strategic patience of Obama, you know, not talking to them, talking to them maximum pressure of fire and fury, Rocky men on a suicide mission to summitry where Trump met with him three times. So what, what's the response? What can we do? And again, we're distracted right now to focus on this.

0 (21m 53s):
It seems potentially as if we are almost sleepwalking into a very volatile situation, North Korea seems more committed than ever to growing its weapons arsenal. You've got a new president in South Korea. Who's a Hawk. The rest of the world is paying attention to Ukraine, not so much North Korea. What are the best and worst case scenarios that you envision playing out in the next couple of months? What's it front of mind for you?

2 (22m 18s):
I'll give you the most likely scenario. North Korea will conduct in Intercontinental ballistic missile tests, or even a nuclear test as early as next month. And there is no end to this. So the crisis is something like what we've seen in 2017 when president Trump was talking about fire and fury. And so on, except this time we don't even have any kind of real response, at least in 2017, even though no one liked president Trump's talk or preventive strike on North Korea or, you know, fire and fury. And so on, there was a maximum pressure.

2 (22m 59s):
There was sanctions. The world was United. Even China was on board in the fall of 2017 to implementing sanctions. But all of that is mood. That's not going to happen because right now what's happening with Russia. North Korea has just opened pathway. So I don't know what, what we can do at a response. This is the frustration

0 (23m 36s):
That we Sue me, Terry of the Wilson center. We also heard from Nathan Park of the Sejong Institute. Today's show was produced by miles. Bryan edited by Matthew collect engineered by a female Shapiro and fact checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Noel king it's today explained

4 (24m 44s):
Support for the show that comes from, are you sleeping a podcast from mattress firm and Vox creative? Are you sleeping shares real human stories. As told through the lens of sleep. You'll hear from a man who suffers from terrifying sleep paralysis and dedicates his life to helping others overcome his affliction. You'll hear from an Olympian who struggles to perform at our highest level, because she can barely seem to get enough rest, a long haul trucker who tries to make her big rig feel like a home on the road after she suddenly finds herself sleeping alone. Are you sleeping? Comes out April 1st, but you can hear the series trailer right now. Listen to, are you sleeping wherever you get your podcasts and don't forget to subscribe. Are you sleeping? Well, are you.