1 (7s):
When I was young I would look up at the stars trying to take in the vastness of it. All I would imagine myself hurtling through the infinite expanse and search of answers to ancient Mysteries ready to fight for a better future ever since I was little I have been a warrior. I'm To step out into the unknown to take on the ultimate Challenge. I close my eyes. I know where I must go space.

1 (1m 6s):
There was a lot of news this week the conservatives won big in the

2 (1m 10s):
UK making brexit all but sure

1 (1m 13s):
India passed a Muslim ban, the Democrats announced articles of impeachment. It is perfectly understandable. If you missed the fact that President Donald Trump finally got his space force. This is like Star Trek. This is like Star Wars. We got a space Army

3 (1m 30s):
now not exactly. More like a bureaucratic reshuffling of Personnel in the military that already do space activities.

2 (1m 42s):
Okay. Well Lauren grush senior science reporter at The Verge you cover all things space before we get into the details. Let's start with what President Trump originally wanted. What was his dream,

3 (1m 52s):
right? So Trump first started talking about space force back in March of 2018, and it was very, you know blase he was just talking about. Oh you No, we might even do a space force. We have the Air Force will have the space force. We have the Army the Navy, you know, I was saying it the other day because we're doing a tremendous amount of work in space. I said maybe we need a new force will go at the space force and I was not really serious. And then I said what a great idea maybe we'll have to do that.

1 (2m 22s):
I could happen

2 (2m 23s):
that could be the big breaking Store. Look at all those people back there. Look at that that fake news.

1 (2m 32s):
And immediately everybody started naming it

3 (2m 35s):
and it was this big online joke, but then a couple months later. He actually made an official announcement at a meeting of the National Space Council directing the Department of Defense to establish a space force

2 (2m 50s):
very importantly. I'm here by directing the Department of Defense and Pentagon to immediately begin the process necessary. To establish a space force as the sixth branch of the Armed Forces that's a big statement

3 (3m 9s):
and when he talked about it he talked about it is creating it like an entirely new branch of the military. He called it separate but equal and very questionable phrasing from the Air Force. So he said we'd have the Air Force and we'd have the space force. They be two completely separate things but at the same level

2 (3m 25s):
so that sounds like exactly what I'm talking about like a space Army like like Star Trek or something like that.

3 (3m 31s):
No, not quite I hate to break it to you. But we already are very involved in space in our military as it is and this would essentially just be taking the personnel and the technologies that we already use for space in the military and putting them in their own separate Branch.

2 (3m 49s):
So it's like not even

3 (3m 50s):
new. No not at

1 (3m 52s):
all. So it's not like we have like boots on the

2 (3m 58s):
moon or a space station somewhere. But this is something of a big deal. I mean this isn't the first time there's been a new branch of the military created in like 70

3 (4m 6s):
years. Right? I mean the creation of the space force is unique and up until now we haven't really had an organization strictly dedicated to space activities. The military space activities have kind of been spread over various departments. They Force the Army the Navy the national reconnaissance office also launches satellites. Most of the activities have been concentrated within the Air Force. But now what is going to happen is the creation of this new Branch under the Helm of the Air Force that is strictly focused on space. So it's still within the Air Force. It's a far cry from what Donald Trump had originally envisioned.

3 (4m 48s):
It's not separate but equal it's still going to be its own six branch of the military. It'll have its own. A four-star general running it. So it'll have a table at the Joint Chiefs of Staff. But that General will be reporting to the Secretary of the Air

2 (5m 2s):
Force. So what exactly was the Air Force already doing in

3 (5m 5s):
space, right? So I don't think people quite understand that space is very much a part of our military operations as it is.

2 (5m 16s):
We launched spy

3 (5m 17s):
satellites. We launched communication satellites that help our troops, you know communicate overseas. We're constantly searching. Mailing, you know other countries for doing this thing called remote sensing where we take pictures of the earth gather data about the Earth. It's very much involved in our lives. And even we use it the GPS system that's operated by the Air Force. We use that in our maps and our phones. So it's already a very important part of how we run military operations. The Air Force has something called the Air Force space

2 (5m 51s):
command. That sounds fun Air Force space

1 (5m 53s):
command.

3 (5m 55s):
So the Air Force space command is responsible for acquiring new technologies for space new satellites. And then they're also responsible for training the military personnel to operate those satellites once they're in

2 (6m 7s):
orbit. Huh. So this is like satellite management Bureau.

3 (6m 14s):
It's so funny. I saw something on Twitter a while back when space force was being talked about and it's like people think it looks like

1 (6m 21s):
this and it had a bunch of like Stormtroopers shooting each other. And it's actually this and it's just a bunch of people looking at computer screens and emission control area

2 (6m 30s):
just had transition to high rate mode and we are in the atmosphere bombers.

1 (6m 35s):
So that's just personally I guess I feel

2 (6m 39s):
like is there is there like a real military threat in space where we need to be like managing satellites and making sure that other satellites aren't trafficking near our satellites or something. Is that what's going

3 (6m 50s):
on? I would say it depends on who you talk to a lot of people. Especially space force Advocates would say there is a military threat in space and there is some truth to that. So Russia has its own forces China. Obviously, the space program is very much involved in its military operations. And then also France recently announced that it was going to create its own kind of space force like Branch. It was reported that the time that they were going to put lasers and machine guns on their satellites since then people have noted that that might be a misattribution. Are some kind of Mis statement China has demonstrated the capability to take out one of its own satellites in orbit.

3 (7m 32s):
So did India earlier this year the Prime Minister announced that India had entered a very elite group of Nations after successfully conducting an anti-satellite missiles test China and India

2 (7m 43s):
shot down their own satellites. I don't know Lauren. It sounds a lot like a cell phone.

1 (7m 50s):
So

3 (7m 51s):
essentially launching a missile from Earth targeting one of of their own satellites and destroying it. It's called an ace that test and anti-satellite test. These a SAT tests are kind of condemned by everyone in the space Community because they are so dangerous and what they'll do is they'll break apart these satellites into you know hundreds even thousands of tiny pieces and then that just creates more debris in the space environment that could threaten other satellites, but they do demonstrate that they have the capability to take out a satellite if they want. So while Took out its own satellite or India took out its own satellite. Theoretically they could do that to one of our

2 (8m 29s):
satellites. Are we blowing up our own satellites in space? We the United States.

3 (8m 33s):
So we did do our own ASAT test. We made the excuse because we were targeting a one of our satellites that was already decaying so it was going to re-enter the Earth's atmosphere anyway, and there was concern that it was going to spread toxic fuel, so we decided to destroy it and And even that test was done, you know in a low altitude to kind of mitigate how much debris would pose a threat to the space environment, but it still created, you know quite a bit of debris. So that's why no one's really a fan of these ASAT test. It's not fun for anybody

2 (9m 10s):
when you talk about machine guns and shooting missiles at satellites. I have to wonder like do we have some sort of international agreement on weapons in space and what will tolerate and what we

3 (9m 21s):
want right so actually 50 years ago. Most of the world's nations came together and signed a treaty. It's called the outer space treaty which I adore

1 (9m 33s):
and it

3 (9m 34s):
basically lays out guidelines for how we should explore space and one of the main tenants is we should use space for peaceful exploration. So one of the things that it prohibits is putting weapons of mass destruction in space. So basically we can't put nukes in

1 (9m 49s):
orbit meanwhile upon administer presided at the signing of the treaty Banning. Nuclear weapons from outer space. He pledged Britain's wholehearted support without such a treaty life on Earth would be under continual threat a nightmare existence.

3 (10m 3s):
However, that doesn't mean that we can't use space for military activities as we've established. We use it for surveillance use it for communications. So it's definitely open to interpretation. Also the outer space treaty was purposely written vague so that we could interpret it the way that we wanted it was built to be flexible so that As nation's progress we could interpret it in different ways. The main thing is no nukes and space but beyond that it's kind of a

2 (10m 33s):
shrug. Okay. So this space force is necessary. It sounds like and it's something we already do there needs to be some sense of order up there in space with how our how our satellites are being managed and how our satellites are interacting with other satellites. Is that a fair summary? I

3 (10m 50s):
would say necessary is it's Up For Debate. Date Advocates were saying all of these space activities are spread out throughout the military. So you have the Air Force you have the Army the Navy the national reconnaissance office. So there isn't really a centralized program for this. so the idea behind the space force is to create a dedicated Branch one that is focused on Space to kind of give them their own culture and to make them think outside the box and you know Inspire them to come up with new technologies and new ways of doing things so someone described it to me as if you came home and then came back to work the next day and you had a new boss and you had new co-workers and you were In on a new floor, that's a bit.

3 (11m 40s):
Like what's happening within the Air Force right now. So all the people who are working in Air Force space command. We're going to go home. They're going to come back the next day, you know, if this gets enacted and they'll be part of the space

2 (11m 50s):
force. And and how much is this space where it's going to cost the United States taxpayers.

3 (11m 55s):
So that is still up for debate. Originally. I think the price tag was the main point of contention, right? Nobody wants to pay money for this. But the reality is we already paid money for what the space force would do. So I think the way That this space forces would be enacted is a little more palatable to people because it is just kind of taking the Personnel that were already working on this and moving them over to their own New Branch Trump Administration requested some 72 million dollars. I

2 (12m 25s):
don't sound like a lot of money compared to everything

1 (12m 28s):
else. Yeah. It's it's a fairly low

3 (12m 31s):
if they do get this space force created. I've heard from some experts who are saying that you know legislators. Who are in favor of it are going to argue for you know giving them a bunch of money so that they can kind of start the momentum of thinking outside the box getting that culture going feeling like they have their own mission and are not just this kind of reshuffling that the kind of all right now.

2 (12m 59s):
Democrats gave him this money this week. They approved this military spending all while approving articles of impeachment. Why are they giving the president what he wants in space while trying to kick him out of office down here on

3 (13m 13s):
Earth. Well, first of all, I would say they haven't given him the money yet and I think because this is the authorization Act and the spending Act is kind of the Appropriations is coming next week. So I think that is still up for debate, but what report said is they? Struck a deal with the Republicans that they would get paid parental leave for federal

2 (13m 34s):
workers. Hmm. And so what comes

3 (13m 37s):
next the Senate is going to vote on the National Defense authorization act next week. And then I've heard Rumblings that there is an agreement on budget spending. That is also maybe going to go up for vote next week as

2 (13m 50s):
well. Last I checked the vote was like 377 to 48. So definitely this big Artisan Coalition voted to support the space force the creation of the space force, but I wonder like what did the 48 people have to say? What is the opposition out there to space

3 (14m 10s):
force? Well, I think when you talk to people about space force is that the messaging hasn't been super precise, you know, a lot of people do think it's Starship Troopers or you know, space lasers and things like that true true true and I think a lot of that has come from the administration in. Himself because the way that they have advertised it it does sound like this very boisterous guns blazing type of thing.

2 (14m 36s):
I think that's because it's called space force. Could Donald Trump one day be considered like a space Pioneer for pulling this

3 (14m 45s):
off, you know? When Trump was elected, I remember thinking, you know, it sounds like I'm gonna have a really quiet time because they didn't seem very much into space and that has been the exact opposite not only have they been huge advocates for the space force. They also stood up the US space command, which is the war fighting combatant command that oversees our whole Space strategy. The Trump Administration has also been very active in NASA's human space flight program. So vice president Mike. Hence challenge NASA to send humans back to the Moon by 2024 which in NASA time scale is a very very short amount of time.

3 (15m 28s):
So this Administration has been very active in the space world since they took office.

2 (15m 36s):
Has anyone voiced any interest in like sending Donald Trump into space.

1 (15m 41s):
I mean, have you been on Twitter?

2 (15m 53s):
My name is Zak them our leader of gleesh knocks explain. Please knocks his greatest daily podcast. Oh, hey Zack, the more we have taken your crew. What are you talking about? My crew is right here. They're Holograms. We have Lauren Crush The Verge will only cover gleesh knocks. Now what and we have your captain Irene? Yes. I really what are we gonna do with that Irene and your host Sean who is now our host Richard Roberts from this is Glee Schnucks explained Sean.

2 (16m 34s):
No, just like I planned at least I still have my producers Oh you mean Brigid? No, I'm a nap Halima the right here. I can see them. I can look I can I can touch them. My hand went right through no arms face. You still here brake master brake master has been a double agent this entire time, but but but ha let me just spare you the trouble. We have Olivia we even have your supplementary crew miles Brian Johnny Carter Eric Gomez Skylar's Swenson. And now I feel him the dream we are coming for you.

2 (17m 14s):
Don't take me take care of Swisher and we just named her pod. Yes, Rico decode the best podcast of the Year take her we wish to thank you Mouse. No. No, please knocks explain this produced in association with Stitcher and we are part of the gleesh knocks media podcast

1 (17m 35s):
Network space.