0 (1s):
It's been a heck of a week for Republicans in the United States. Congress

1 (5s):
What.

0 (5s):
An Oklahoma. Senator challenged the president of the Teamsters to a fight.

2 (9s):
You. wanna do it now? I'd love to do it right now. Well, stand your butt up then.

3 (12s):
You. stand your butt up. Oh, hold it guy. Oh. no, stop it. That your solution. every republic. Oh. no Sit down. Sit down. Oh. no, you're a United States. Senator.

0 (20s):
The chair of the oversight committee made fun of a Democrat's Blue suit. You.

4 (24s):
Look like a smurf here. Just going around at all.

0 (27s):
This. the former Speaker allegedly assaulted one of his colleagues who voted to ousted.

5 (31s):
I got elbowed in the back and it kind of caught me off guard 'cause it was a clean shot to the kidneys. And I turned back and there was Kevin. and

0 (38s):
That was just Tuesday. All. that madness overshadowed the craziest thing that happened on the hill. this week. The new Speaker averted a government shutdown by doing the same thing that got Kevin fired. He worked with Democrats. Why that's not gonna get Mike Johnson fired. Coming up. On today. Explained

6 (1m 0s):
Support for today's show comes from Vanta. If you're building a business, then achieving compliance with frameworks like SOC two and ISO 27 0 0 1 might help you win bigger deals, enter new markets, and deepen trust with customers. But, it can also cost you time and money. Vanta wants you to know that it automates compliance and simplifies security. In fact, Vanta customers report saving up to 400 hours of work and 85% of associated costs. To learn more about what this is, how Vanta works, and to claim a special offer, visit Vanta dot com slash explained. That's VANT a.com/explained.

7 (1m 42s):
Ryan Reynolds here from Mint Mobile. Not only have I been the owner of Mint Mobile for the last few years, I've also been a customer. I don't know If, you knew this, but anyone can get the same premium wireless for $15 a month plan that I've been enjoying. It's not just for celebrities. So do like I did and have one of your assistant's, assistants switch you to Mint Mobile today. I'm told it's super easy to do at mint mobile.com/switch.

8 (2m 7s):
New activation and upfront payment for three month plan required taxes and fees, extra additional restrictions apply cement mit mobile.com for full terms.

10 (2m 18s):
The house will be in order. The clerk may call the roll

9 (2m 23s):
Today. Yay explained. Yay.

0 (2m 30s):
Olivia Beaver's covers house Republicans for Politico, which meant this week with a government shutdown. Once again, looming over the nation was a bit of a gamble.

11 (2m 40s):
I was making betts. And when you started seeing Democrats starting to say, Hey, we're interested the Senate and House Democrats were not taking the same tone as a White House, which was basically slamming it as some sort of radical extremist Republican plan initially. Then I was like, oh, I think, I think we might have our Christmas holiday breaks saved.

0 (3m 1s):
Christmas was saved by the Devoutly Christian News, Speaker of the House, Shreveport Louisiana's, Mike Johnson. People

11 (3m 8s):
Are still Googling him. Definitely. I've known him for quite a while. I think since I began covering the Hill in 2018. But, he kind of did come out of nowhere when we were watching the leadership races happening to replace Kevin McCarthy. Because first you had the number two and then he was, Steve Scalise wasn't able to get it and he was blocked.

12 (3m 28s):
I just shared with my colleagues and I'm withdrawing my name as a cabinet for the Speaker designee.

11 (3m 34s):
And then you had Jim Jordan who was sort of the darling of the right and he was blocked.

13 (3m 39s):
Look, there's been multiple rounds of votes for Speaker before. We all know that. I just know that we need to get a Speaker as soon as possible so we can get to work for the American people.

11 (3m 47s):
And then you had Tom member, the number three top house Republican and and he was blocked.

14 (3m 51s):
I said, there's only one person that can do it all the way. You know who that is? Jesus Christ. Jesus came down and said, I want to be Speaker. He would do it.

11 (4m 2s):
So then Mike Johnson is in this very crowded field to run. Again,

15 (4m 6s):
A few words of gratitude. I want to thank Leader Jefferies. I do look forward to working with you on behalf of the American people. I know we see things from very different points of view

11 (4m 15s):
And he's someone who has maintained friendships across the Republican conference. But I wouldn't say like he has any particularly close friends. So when he was elected, I remember going up to members that I know quite well saying, who's his best friend? Who is he always hanging out with? I don't usually this is information I know, but I don't know this. And they go, I don't know either. I've been asking around because that's how the power structure usually is formed. So he has a lot of friendships from the Republican Study Committee, which is basically the largest Republican group on Capitol Hill. They come up with policy ideas and pitches and he has friendships from that. And and also you might remember his face from sort of pushing back against Democrats first efforts to impeach Donald Trump in 2019.

11 (5m 1s):
'cause he was one of the Republicans that was very much fighting against that

0 (5m 5s):
And, and you might not remember his face from being one of the behind the scenes guys trying to overturn the 2020 presidential election

16 (5m 13s):
Following the vote. ABC's Rachel Scott trying to ask the new nominee Mike Johnson, if he still stands by his vote to overturn the 2020 election results.

15 (5m 27s):
Next

16 (5m 27s):
Question. Johnson supporters including Congresswoman Virginia Fox telling Rachel to shut up.

0 (5m 33s):
So we've got an election, denier Speaker of the house. Was this continuing resolution, this cr, his first big test? Or was there something that came before it?

11 (5m 43s):
No, this is certainly his first big test and depending on who you ask, he's going to be getting a different scorecard. So Democrats are out there saying, look, we helped carry you across the line. We're glad you are willing to work with us. It's kind of a pretty big win for Democrats because they got what they wanted. So when Mike Johnson first released a plan, I think the first instinct was to be like, Ugh, we don't like your idea. And then they realized they basically got what they were asking for, which was no cuts, no sort of surprise, what we call policy writers where they slip in conservative agenda items that Democrats would never go for. So then they started showing that they were on board. But If, you talk to house conservatives, chip Roy, Marjorie, Taylor Greene, Warren Davidson, some of the people who Kevin McCarthy used to struggle with, but none of those three were part of his ouster.

11 (6m 34s):
They were very much slamming it saying How dare you continue Pelosi level spending. We just kicked out a Speaker for for basically doing the same thing.

17 (6m 43s):
Georgia Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene said she will be voting no on this clean continuing resolution. Warren Davidson, Republican of Ohio also said he'll be voting against it. Adding quote, disappointing is as polite as I can muster. And the Texas congressman Chip Roy posted on x quote, my opposition to the clean CR just announced by the Speaker to the house. GOP cannot be overstated. End quote. Right.

0 (7m 6s):
That's what's kind of funny about this situation, right? Mike Johnson's victory here was what? Lost Kevin McCarthy. His job,

11 (7m 15s):
McCarthy tried to pass what we call, we call it a clean cr, basically keeping the funding in line. And he did it with the help of Democrats. And that was the leaping off point for Matt Gaetz to try to trigger ousting him because

18 (7m 30s):
All over America Republicans think that when you negotiated that debt limit deal, they took your lunch money.

11 (7m 36s):
Now If, you do break it down though, some of the eight and I was having these discussions with McCarthy Allies, some of them will point to other things that they were mad at and reason for them to vote to ousted. It's sort of all came to a head with the government funding. McCarthy ended up ousted and Mike Johnson ended up with some mean tweets.

0 (7m 55s):
What's he saying about why he's signing on to work with the Democrats in this moment?

11 (8m 2s):
He's arguing that it puts them in a better position for negotiations down the line. So basically this is essentially kicking the can down the road. He's claiming it gives them more leverage to negotiate on two fronts. One is continuing to fund the, the appropriation bills. So they say like, we're in a better position 'cause we're not in a shutdown and they are still going to be dealing with a whole separate issue that he did not include in the government funding bill, which is how to address the border Ukraine and Israel.

0 (8m 31s):
Okay. And do we know what's gonna happen in those further negotiations about say, Israel Ukraine, the Southern United States border?

11 (8m 39s):
So there was this leadership press conference and I tried to ask Mike Johnson about this on Tuesday. Essentially I was asking if he was committed to passing some sort of supplemental bill that would fund Israel and potentially include or Ukraine and border funding by the time of the short term spending bill deadline, which is January 19th or February 2nd, depending on what date you wanna pick. And he wouldn't answer that question when I was basically running up to him at the end of the press conference asking him off, off the cameras. I also was trying to ask him if he would accept a Senate supplemental, so if they came back with their own plan tying in border and Ukraine money and and whatnot.

11 (9m 22s):
But I didn't quite get answers about that. But that's where we're trying to suss out where he is now. When he passed the Israel funding bill, he did it without Ukraine.

19 (9m 31s):
Newly minted house Speaker Mike Johnson is facing backlash after proposing a bill to send more than $14 billion in aid to Israel while slashing the same amount to the IRS from the President's Signature Inflation Reduction Act.

11 (9m 47s):
So he was throwing some meat to his right wing and basically the Senate and the White House said they're, they're not going to support it, so the Senate's gonna come up with what it wants and repackage it and send it back. And so the negotiations begin.

0 (10m 3s):
So he is kind of given us some hints about where he might wanna go in the new year when spending relatively quickly comes up again. What do you think we should expect in the new year?

11 (10m 16s):
Well, I actually think it's more complicated than that because I think Mike Johnson's trying to figure out what kind of Speaker he wants to be. And there's sort of this perspective among house Republicans, which is you can cater to the right, but then you're not gonna govern or you can govern and you're going to piss off your right. And with the latest CR he has pissed off his right. You know, we were talking to some of the Republicans and they basically said, we're giving you extra rope right now, but don't take it for granted. If, you are basically gonna be like Kevin McCarthy. We might do the same thing to you that we did to him.

0 (10m 54s):
What do you think this like episode here has, has taught us about Mike Johnson, if anything?

11 (10m 59s):
I think it's taught us that any GOP leader, no matter what their conservative record is, is probably going to be facing a kind of tarnished reputation at the end of this. There's not a great way to win in the way that, you know, McCarthy sort of learned. And it's more about survival and, and getting your wins where you can, but trying to also prevent your right wing from coming after you at the end of the day, and he's making quite aware that he's overwhelmed. His argument to his members was, this was not a hand I picked, this was the hand I was dealt and I I'm trying to make it work, but this is not really how I would've handled it if I had, you know, had more runway.

11 (11m 43s):
And when he was talking to reporters, he goes, I can't turn an aircraft carrier around overnight. I'm not a plane expert, but maybe you could. But, but that's basically the message he's giving publicly and privately saying, I I'm doing my best. I and, and he's trying to figure it out.

1 (12m 4s):
Olivia

0 (12m 5s):
Beaver's reader@politico.com when we're back

Hydrow, Inc. (12m 8s):
On today explained where Speaker Mike Johnson might wanna point. The aircraft carrier support for today. Explained comes from High Hydrow is a state-of-the-art Low Impact Home rowing machine. They estimate you can work out 86% of your muscles in a 20 minute workout when you row with Hydrow. I personally have never worked out 80% of my muscles, but Sarah Frank, who works on the business side of Vox has, There are plenty of videos and coaching from the trainers, not only to get the product set up to your body type, but also to train you how to use all of your muscles in the best way to have the most efficient workout. You can join the Growing Rowing community at Hydrow and get early access to Hydrow Black Friday savings today. You can head over to Hydrow dot com and use the code explained to save up to $500 off your personal Hydrow. That's H-Y-D-R-O w.com. The code is explained to save up to $500 Hydrow dot com Code explained

SimpliSafe (13m 40s):
Support for today. Explained comes from SimpliSafe. It's that time again, the holidays. Maybe you're out, maybe you're leaving town, maybe you're socializing with family and friends and spending a lot of time away from home. Who's watching your home? That's where SimpliSafe comes in when you leave your home. Maybe you want some peace of mind and unless you have McCulley Culkin ready to set a bunch of booby traps, love the reference SimpliSafe, then you might wanna protect your home with SimpliSafe. Now 50% off. According to SimpliSafe, they provide a comprehensive protection system for your entire home with advanced sensors that detect not only break-ins, but home disasters like fires and floods. Plus their new 24 7 live guard protection comes with a smart alarm wellness indoor camera that lets monitoring agency and speak to intruders, deterring them in real time as they call for help. For a limited time, listeners can get a special 50% off any SimpliSafe system with a Fast Protect plan. Visit SimpliSafe dot com slash today, explained that SimpliSafe dot com slash today explained. There's no safe like SimpliSafe.

22 (14m 54s):
Speaker X

0 (14m 55s):
Today explained Sean Ramas room. We wanted to find out more about Speaker Mike Johnson, but we didn't wanna listen to all 69 episodes of his podcast. Truth be told with Mike and Kelly Johnson because quite frankly, it sounds really bad. Deanna, Mike

22 (15m 7s):
Johnson brought a job, brought a great guy. What a good, good politician because you love it and you love the people and you really are, you're a natural. Thanks very much. I appreciate being

23 (15m 18s):
Mike and Kelly Johnson have been leading together on faith, family, and freedom for nearly a quarter of a century. Few couples are trusted more,

0 (15m 26s):
So he reached out to Spencer McNaughton. Instead he teaches journalism at NYU with a focus on L-G-B-T-Q issues. But, he also produces and writes stuff most recently a big piece for Rolling Stone about Mike Johnson, but it came to be about Mike in a sort of roundabout way. So

21 (15m 43s):
It kind of happened by accident. I had been investigating a group alliance defending freedom for about four months for a Rolling Stone. And then a few weeks before we were set to publish, or a few days actually we were, before we were set to publish, you know, Mike Johnson got elected to the house And. we found out that he actually worked for the ADF for nearly 10 years, nearly a decade in the early two thousands And, we realized immediately, you know, this had to be an integral part of the story because you know, all of a sudden you have somebody who worked at this group that's designated an anti L-G-B-T-Q hate organization by the Southern Poverty Law Center for nearly a decade, and now he's second in line to the president.

0 (16m 25s):
Our listening audience now knows that Mike Johnson is a big election denier. We know that he's now second in line to the presidency. What else is worth knowing about Mike Johnson?

21 (16m 38s):
I think the number one thing for me that is worth knowing is how extreme his views are on the L-G-B-T-Q community. Right? While he was working at Alliance Defending Freedom in the early two thousands, he penned OP-eds in local Louisiana newspapers that described homosexuality as sinful and destructive. He warned that if we legalize marriage, we're opening up a Pandora's box that will eventually allow pedophiles to marry people. And, we will even allow humans to marry pets. And you know, this hasn't stopped either. After he left the alliance defending freedom, he introduced a sweeping federal law that's essentially the don't say gay law that we remember DeSantis passed in Florida into law where teachers in schools cannot teach anything related to sexual orientation or gender identity in the classroom.

21 (17m 30s):
And we're not talking about the ABCs of anal, okay? We're talking about books that might include two dads. Anything that's outside of the realm of heteronormativity he wanted to ban at a national level. In addition to that, he has a long history of coming after women's reproductive rights. He's advocated and voiced support for legislation at the state level and at the national level that would, you know, rule back women's rights or you know, at this moment in time, now that he's house Speaker, intensify, you know, the anti-abortion policies that are, you know, now pervasive in the United States.

0 (18m 6s):
Tell me more about this group that a lot of people might be hearing about for the first time the ADF, the Alliance defending freedom.

21 (18m 13s):
Exactly. They present themselves as a benevolent Christian legal organization. You know, they say that their mission is to protect religious freedom, right? And to protect the faith and the Christianity, this sort of thing.

24 (18m 27s):
Together we work to build a future in which the law affirms and protects religious freedom, free speech, the sanctity of life, marriage, and the family.

21 (18m 38s):
And sure there are a few bills that do that, but really they're a monstrous legal juggernaut that's existed since 1994 that has ruled back L-G-B-T-Q Rights, women's Rights since its inception.

25 (18m 51s):
Hi, I'm Erin Hawley and I am so excited to talk to you today about the Supreme Court's decision in Dobbs versus Jackson Women's Health Organization. The decision today is a huge win for life and for the constitution, the decision finally

21 (19m 6s):
Overruled. The exact, what people may or may not know is that this year there's been over 501 anti L-G-B-T-Q bills introduced in state legislatures, and 70 have passed into law. For the record, that's record shattering, right? That is more than any other year by far unprecedented, right? The ADF has their lawyers parachute into these states, into the courthouses to testify our voice support for these bills. These are bills that are, don't say gay laws. These are bills that are, you know, banning, you know, what's known as lifesaving healthcare for trans kids. You know, and the majority of these bills come after queer children. Should

26 (19m 43s):
A school-aged girl or a grown woman be forced to give up her privacy in a locker room? Because a biological man identifying as a woman wants to change there.

21 (19m 52s):
Not to mention they're not just powerful state legislatures. They're also really powerful at the Supreme Court, right? They have 15 wins at the Supreme Court.

0 (20m 2s):
What are some of their greatest hits at the Supreme Court?

21 (20m 4s):
You know, since 2011, they've won 15 cases. Some of the cases have focused on abortion and the group helped draft and defend legislation that helped overturn Roe v. Wade, you know, a lot of others focused on ruling back L-G-B-T-Q rights.

27 (20m 17s):
We won the 3 0 3 creative case on behalf of Lori Smith with God's help. This is our 15th victory at the United States Supreme Court, and it stands for a very important principle

21 (20m 26s):
That we working the group. ADF right now is trying to get the Supreme Court to take a case where they're representing a Christian therapist, challenging a law that disciplines healthcare providers for practicing conversion therapy. So this group is getting these cases almost all the way to the Supreme Court.

0 (20m 44s):
Who exactly is the ADF? I mean, who are the actual people that comprise this group? And, and then help us understand how Mike Johnson fits in

21 (20m 53s):
The ADF was founded in 1994 by a group of conservative, you know, white evangelical men, and they really wanted to be an answer to the American Civil Liberties Union. They wanted to say we're defending religious liberty, we're defending religious freedom, right? The first CEO was Alan Sears.

23 (21m 12s):
It's so hard for many people to remember what it was like in the late 1980s, the early 1990s, when essentially there was only a tiny handful of Christian attorneys engaged in standing against organizations like the American Civil Liberties Union, planned Parenthood in the countless initial allied groups that wanted to reshape this nation that wanted to abolish the sanctity of human life.

21 (21m 36s):
I think it's really important to note that he authored a book called The Homosexual Agenda, exposing the principle threat to religious freedom today, where he talks about how homosexuality is the biggest threat to religious freedom and evangelism. And he says it will silence Christians. They started out extremely homophobic and they've continued on that way, right? They're now comprised of allied attorneys who go around to state legislatures, to the Supreme Court and even internationally to, you know, litigate in favor of laws and bills that would roll back women's rights L-G-B-T-Q rights and, and really undermine American democracy.

0 (22m 13s):
And, and how does Mike Johnson fit into the puzzle?

21 (22m 15s):
Yeah, so Mike Johnson, he worked there for nearly 10 years. He was a spokesperson and a lawyer at ADF, you know, he penned a bunch of op-eds while he was there. He wrote amicus briefs that would illegalize gay sex. So sodomy laws he wrote in favor of those. He vehemently opposed the legalization of gay marriage. He was one of the main players at ADF for nearly a decade. And I think it's important to note now, you know, Mike Johnson may be the most notorious government employee who also has ties to the ADF. But one thing I wrote about in my reporting is that there's over a hundred current or former members of the US government who worked at ADF at one point and, and that's kind of their game plan, right?

21 (23m 1s):
Like they want to instill biblical values into government at every single level.

0 (23m 7s):
Has anyone asked Speaker Johnson about his connections to this group since he became Speaker?

21 (23m 13s):
So, you know, a lot of people have asked, right? And maybe unsurprisingly, he spoke with Sean Hannity on Fox News shortly after he got elected as House Speaker, right? And he says, he, quote doesn't even remember all of his anti L-G-B-T-Q policies, huh? Comments, supports,

15 (23m 29s):
I don't even remember some of them. I, I was a litigator that was called upon to defend the state marriage amendments. If, you remember back

21 (23m 34s):
In forth again, even though last year he wrote legislation that would create a federal, don't say gay law, right? In June on a podcast, he referred to trans influencer Dylan Mulvaney as real sick stuff,

15 (23m 47s):
Some marketing genius at Anheuser-Busch decided to team up with Dylan Mulvaney, who's this, you know, transgender advocate who be parades around as a woman and makes videos to appeal to, you know, young teen girls. It's just, it's really sick stuff. And

21 (23m 60s):
However, you know, in fairness to him, when asked about, you know, the legalization, the of gay marriage and how he feels about that, he did say he respects the rule of law.

15 (24m 9s):
Anybody that knows me will tell you this is true. I am a rule of law guy. I made a, a career defending the rule of law. I respect the rule of law.

0 (24m 16s):
Okay? So it's really easy to be a fringe figure when you're literally on the fringe. But as we saw this week, Mike Johnson is having to work with Democrats. He's having to work with the White House. He's having to work with moderate Republicans to keep the government open. To keep the government functioning. Do you think that might mean that his ADF days are behind him?

21 (24m 37s):
Absolutely not. If, you think about where we're at politically in American society right now. You know, Trump appointed three justices to the Supreme Court who all voted to overturn Roe v. Wade. And that reflects Mike Johnson's political views, right? He's against women having reproductive rights. He's in favor of anti L-G-B-T-Q policies and laws, not only at the state level, but also at the federal level, right? He introduced this, don't say gay bill, that's called the Stop Children from Sexualization Act.

0 (25m 8s):
Just to clarify, it's called the Stop the Sexualization of Children Act.

21 (25m 13s):
But I think what's really important to note here, and that's one of the reasons that I write about this stuff and feel really passionate about it, is that these bills are in large majority attacking queer children. These don't say gay laws, these laws taking away trans kids healthcare. So I think it's really dangerous and no, I don't imagine he will become any less extreme, any less fringe. If anything, it'll be the opposite. Especially as, you know, Trump likely becomes the candidate and his rhetoric gets more and more back into the mix as, as we get closer to, you know, November of 2024. You know, when you have somebody like Mike Johnson with those fringe beliefs, second in line to the president, you have Fox News, right-Wing Media celebrating this person.

21 (25m 58s):
It shifts American perception. There's a normalization in terms of, you know, what's acceptable to believe when it comes to L-G-B-T-Q rights. And that's really dangerous, especially as we approach the 2024 presidential election.

0 (26m 15s):
Spencer McNaughton is a producer, a professor, and a journalist. You can find the piece he wrote about Mike Johnson and the AD f@rollingstone.com. It's called Inside the Alliance Defending Freedom, the anti L-G-B-T-Q org, where Mike Johnson spent almost a decade. Our program today was produced by SI Petros, edited by AM Alade fact, checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by David Herman. We reached out to the ADF for comment, but we did not hear back, but we did hear this ADF radio spot about Mike Johnson's ADF origin story. And, we figured we'd just play the whole thing for you. It was unearthed by the investigative watchdog group, documented, and it is real.

29 (27m 1s):
All

17 (27m 1s):
It takes for evil to flourish is for good men to do nothing.

0 (27m 7s):
Honey,

29 (27m 9s):
Mike Johnson, you scared the daylights outta

0 (27m 11s):
Me. Sorry, babe. I thought you heard me come in.

29 (27m 14s):
I wasn't expecting you home yet. Why are you home so early?

0 (27m 18s):
I've had warmer welcomes in my life.

29 (27m 21s):
I'm sorry, honey. What's wrong? Did you lose a case?

0 (27m 26s):
No. I lost my job.

29 (27m 28s):
What? Mike? You just started at the firm. How could you get fired?

0 (27m 34s):
I had to make a choice about

29 (27m 36s):
What,

0 (27m 37s):
Whether to keep representing that coalition that's trying to keep that strip club from coming into town or keep the job that brought us back here.

29 (27m 45s):
They made you choose. Oh, Mike,

0 (27m 50s):
I'm so sorry, babe. I know this was our dream to come back home and raise our kids in the same safe little town we grew up in. I messed it up.

29 (28m 2s):
You did the right thing. This won't be the same safe little town anyway. If people like you, don't do something to protect it. I'm proud of you, Mike.

0 (28m 13s):
I love you and the kids so much.

29 (28m 15s):
I know

23 (28m 17s):
Mike Johnson, a compassionate young lawyer, put his family's future in God's hands and the Alliance Defense Fund proudly welcomed him to our team today. Mike is helping others who have faced moral dilemmas and is firmly backed by the legal resources that ADF provides. Our allied attorneys find out what ADF is doing in your community Request our free weekly alert by calling 1 8 7 7. Tell ADF or visit our website@telladf.org. I'm Alan Sears, president of AD F, the voice for freedom.