1 (8s):
I explained Ramez from, we talk a lot about powerful Joes on the show lately. There's obviously white house president Joe Biden. There's of course, Senate president Joe mansion. And then there's the president of podcasts. Joe Rogan,

2 (24s):
Joe Rogan experience

3 (26s):
Train by day Joe Rogan podcast by night,

1 (29s):
All day, as you've surely heard by now, an old man named Neil young got very mad at Joe Rogan and the company that distributes his podcasts, Spotify, which subsequently lost something like a couple billion dollars of its market value. This past

4 (44s):
Week, the situation kind of boiled

1 (47s):
Over Ashley. Carmen has been covering the story and breaking news about it.

4 (53s):
Joe Rogan is signed exclusively to Spotify and this past week, Neil young Joni Mitchell and a bunch of others have started speaking out about them being uncomfortable with Spotify, distributing his show, and then Neil young and Joni Mitchell specifically pulled their music from the platform in protest.

1 (1m 9s):
We started with how Spotify got its hands on Joe's

4 (1m 12s):
Show. Joe Rogan has been podcasting for years. Right?

5 (1m 15s):
Good to see you, buddy. What's going on? Good to see you too, sir. It's fucking awesome to have you come down here again, always

4 (1m 21s):
Notably he's a YouTube podcast or that's how most people found him know him. He's like associated with YouTube now because they paid him just because he used the platform as the place. He mainly distributed his show. It wasn't available actually through Spotify, up until 2020, when Spotify signed an exclusive deal with Joe Rogan for reported hundred million dollars,

1 (1m 42s):
A hundred million, I will admit more than I make to podcast every single day. Right? How does the industry respond to this deal? A hundred million dollars. I mean, it was reportedly a hundred million dollars, but I remember being shocked because I wondered how will they make them?

4 (1m 58s):
Yeah. So I think the industry is in the folks who also make shows and who create shows were kind of like, whoa, this is like an eye-popping number for anybody. And I think it does come with questions of what are they getting for this? What does Spotify really see the value as? And so the answer to that is really Spotify sees potential in diversifying its revenue away from music and into podcasts and other forms of audio. Because when you stream music on Spotify, obviously Spotify pays royalties to the labels and musicians. When you stream a podcast, specifically, a podcast that Spotify exclusively distributed monetizes, it makes money from you.

4 (2m 42s):
So when you listen to a Joe Rogan episode, even if you're a paying subscriber of Spotify, you still get ads in the podcast. And I reported recently that the minimum ad spend actually for advertisers to even touch Rogan show this year is a million dollars. So you could see how they're rapidly trying make back that money. And it's helping prop up their entire advertising business because when you buy ads on Rogan, you have to buy ads on other shows.

1 (3m 6s):
Got it. So this wasn't just a bet on Joe Rogan. It was kind of a bet on Spotify as advertising infrastructure,

4 (3m 13s):
A hundred percent and Rogan was critical to sort of let that rocket ship take off because he already had such big reach. I mean, we don't know exact numbers. It's not publicly shared, but you can probably safely assume millions of people he's widely considered like the biggest podcast in the world.

1 (3m 31s):
So we don't know how this bet has paid off yet for Spotify in the sort of intervening year and some odd months.

4 (3m 38s):
It's kind of the big question that I personally have been really trying to report on. You know, Rogan keeps Brogan. Spotify is selling ads against Rogan. People still listen to Rogan. So they're making money off of those ads. The question is whether they can use this deal to get people, to enjoy the rest of their advertising product and actually start coming there to advertise on all podcasts. And that's ultimately the goal. And that is it's unclear if that's happening.

1 (4m 9s):
Rogan keeps running, feels like the perfect setup for the question of, of when exactly this present controversy gets started and how

4 (4m 18s):
Yeah. So Rogan has always said some controversial things. It's never really resulted in like a mass let's cancel Joe Rogan, but things have changed like Spotify is now paying Rogan a hundred million dollars, giving it some responsibility. Many people would say to ensure that what he's saying and what his guests are saying is factual responsible that they are a published.

5 (4m 43s):
Are you, I mean, are you tired of this tired dealing with this? Do you feel a duty to talk about the,

4 (4m 52s):
So in December end of December, Joe Rogan had a guest on Dr. Robert Malone, who is a doctor and scientist who did help work on the M RNA vaccines that we now use for COVID-19.

5 (5m 4s):
We should just say, because historically we should just state what's happening here. So today is the 20, no, the 30th of December and yesterday you were kicked off Twitter, correct? True.

4 (5m 16s):
But on his show, he said some stuff that many people would consider misinformation. He kind of discussed the world being hypnotized right now by the mainstream media to believe that vaccines are needed

6 (5m 30s):
A third of the population basically being hypnotized and totally wrapped up in whatever Tony Fowchee in the mainstream media feeds them. Whatever CNN tells them is true.

4 (5m 40s):
I believe call vaccines experimental, which isn't true because obviously people do clinical studies for vaccine. So it's out of the experiment phase and into the like we've approved this and done it phase.

6 (5m 52s):
These mandates of an experimental vaccine are explicitly illegal. They are explicitly inconsistent with the Nuremberg code.

4 (6m 2s):
When does doctor is going off about this mass psychosis and experimental vaccines and all these other things, he really doesn't get much pushback from broken at all.

5 (6m 10s):
It's become very, not just common, but accepted to other people too, to point at those, the others, whether it's the Republicans or the Democrats or the independents, whatever you choose, whatever you choose to make the unvaccinated or the unvaccinated that was I was going to get to. Yeah. And that's one of the things that I find very bizarre about the tribal aspect of this is that people want me to get vaccinated. And like my friends who've been vaccinated, want me to join the team? Like I get the tattoo, like, what are you saying? So

6 (6m 40s):
Again, this is not me buttering you up, but this is, this is why you're providing such a service to your country and to humanity.

4 (6m 49s):
Really what prompted? I think this movement, because then a bunch of doctors, scientists, medical, community members published a letter

7 (6m 58s):
Spotify about the misinformation on COVID vaccines and the pandemic spread on Joe Rogan's podcast.

4 (7m 6s):
Spotify and Joe Rogan are hurting public

7 (7m 9s):
By allowing the propagation of false. And societaly harmful assertions. Spotify is enabling its hosted media to damage public trust in scientific research. And so doubt in the credibility of data driven guidance offered by medical professionals.

4 (7m 25s):
So that letter gets published. Neil young finds, this letter reads, it gets upset. And he says, you know, I don't like that. Spotify is supporting misinformation on Joe Rogan's podcast. Therefore I am going to pull my music young stated

8 (7m 39s):
They can have Joe Rogan

4 (7m 40s):
Or young, not both. And as soon as Neil young pulls his music, Joni Mitchell polls

9 (7m 46s):
Saying irresponsible, people are spreading lies that are costing people their

4 (7m 50s):
Lives. So this little movement happens. Guitarist,

9 (7m 53s):
Nils, Lofgren of Bruce Springsteen's east street been pulling some 27 years worth of his solo work off the site.

8 (7m 60s):
I think specifically, a lot of times our drove show, they encourage the wrong thing and it's disingenuous and a dangerous,

1 (8m 13s):
What are the Neil Young's and the Joni Mitchell's of the world asking for when they pull their music from Spotify, are they saying, cancel Joe Rogan's show, cut them loose. And then we'll give you our music back. Are they saying we don't like your judgment? We're out. We're not really interested in having our music on your platform ever again.

4 (8m 31s):
You know, that has been something that's a little unclear to me. I don't think it's that they'll never come back to Spotify is my hunch. I don't think the record labels would like that very much. But the thing that really made this a very complicated situation is up until this weekend and actually up until Friday, no one knew what Spotify is. Policies were around COVID they never publicly said what you could or couldn't say, no one knew what the rules were. So Spotify kept saying, well, Rogan stuff fits within our rules. Like we're not taking it down. Now we have the rules and we can see why,

1 (9m 2s):
What are the rules?

4 (9m 3s):
So Spotify did publish with policies this week on, on what it actually believes to be like infringing content of their rules. So they say content that promotes dangerous, false, or dangerous deceptive medical information that may cause offline harm or poses a direct threat to public health includes, but may not be limited to asserting that aids COVID-19 cancer or other serious life-threatening diseases are hoax or not real encouraging the consumption of bleach products to cure various illnesses and diseases promoting or suggesting that vaccines approved by local health authorities are designed to cause death encouraging people to purposely get infected with COVID-19 in order to build immunity to it example, promoting or hosting coronavirus parties.

4 (9m 48s):
Huh? That's it. That's all the rules.

1 (9m 51s):
Okay. And Joe Rogan didn't technically break those rules.

4 (9m 56s):
I don't think Joe Rogan thinks COVID-19 is fake. I don't think Joe Rogan encourages people to drink bleach. He might encourage them to take ivermectin.

5 (10m 5s):
And this is obviously I'm not a doctor. It says <em></em> was found to be a blocker of viral replica replicated.

4 (10m 16s):
He might say that if you're a young person, like what do you tell you to get the vaccine? Probably not.

5 (10m 20s):
Yeah. I think for the most part it's safe to get vaccinated. I do. I do. But if you're like 21 years old and you say to me, should I get vaccinated? I go, no, no,

4 (10m 30s):
But he doesn't say the vaccines are designed to kill you. So it's very easy to see why Rogan hasn't broken. The rules is a long story short here.

1 (10m 39s):
And how does Spotify respond to this Neil young Joni Mitchell obviously to extremely high profile musicians pulling their music. Do they publicly address that

4 (10m 50s):
On Sunday? So days later, Spotify CEO, Daniel ack publishes a press release that says we are not going to take things out that don't break our rules. We believe in free speech or something like that, basically. And then they publish the rules. Spotify also said it would put an advisory on any podcast content that talks about COVID-19. This is similar to what we've seen on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube, you know, like those little boxes that they link out to like information from the CDC or something. I don't know if this satisfies people, because I think the core issue people have is a little bit of Joe Rogan. Yes. But it's more that Spotify specifically is paying a hundred million dollars to Joe Rogan is publishing his stuff and therefore has an editorial responsibility to make sure what he says is factual.

4 (11m 41s):
Correct. And not hurting the public that I think is the core issue of what people are talking about. And this press release. This update does not change that fact at all. Like today, Rogan could publish and Spotify is still that podcast is still paying him a hundred million dollars. So nothing has changed. Ultimately

1 (11m 59s):
How's Joe Rogan responding to all of this. So

4 (12m 1s):
Rogan issued a video like a nine minute video on Sunday evening on Instagram,

5 (12m 7s):
Oh, friends. I wanted to make a video to address some of the controversy that's been going on over the past few days. And first of all, to say, thank you to everyone that sent love and support. I truly, truly appreciate it. And it's been very nice to hear from you

4 (12m 23s):
Basically, you know, says I'm a podcaster. I don't want to hurt anybody. I want to be friends with everyone. I'm just asking questions and doing my job as a podcast or which is to have discussion, right?

5 (12m 33s):
This, these podcasts are very strange because they're just conversations. And oftentimes I have no idea what I'm going to talk about until I sit down and talk to people. And that's why some of my ideas are not that prepared or fleshed out because I'm literally having them in real time. But I do my best and they're just conversations. And I think that's also the appeal of the show. It's one of the things that makes it interesting.

4 (12m 58s):
He thinks he could maybe have on some of these more controversial guests, but then in the following episode, bring on someone from like the CDC or more mainstream science to talk. And then broadly he's like, I like new young

5 (13m 11s):
Coupa rocking in the free world.

4 (13m 20s):
Spotify needs Joe Rogan to make its advertising platform work. It needs him right now without Rogan. They have some other shows, but he is the big kahuna who is bringing in all the marketers. So Neil young unfortunately, is not generating that kind of cash for Spotify.

1 (13m 52s):
How Joe Rogan became the big kahuna in a minute until they explained Support for the program. Today comes from a program it's from the people over at Wondery and it's called life is short with Justin Long, just in lung. Doesn't he like the Mac in those Mac and PC commercials. He was that guy. You know that guy, you remember that commercial, right? Unless you're really young, I've run into people who don't remember that commercial anyway, on his podcast, Justin asks actors, musicians, and artists, some big questions about life and arcs.

1 (14m 41s):
Like how do we get the most out of light for how do we bring meaning to our art? Recent guests include comedian, Rob Riggle, singer Amy, man. She some music in that movie. Magnolia, if you're a fan, I'm a fan actor, Billy Zane, Zane, you might remember him from the zoo Lander anyway, to find out more, including Billy saints. Favorite emoji, listen to life is short with Justin Long on apple podcasts, Amazon music, or you can listen at free by joining Wondery plus in the wondering Devin Gordon, you wrote about Joe Rogan and his podcast for the Atlantic a few years ago.

1 (15m 34s):
And, and for that piece, I believe you even lived like Joe A. Little bit. Do you still drink his mushroom coffee?

10 (15m 39s):
Oh my God. Now I stopped at as soon as I could,

1 (15m 42s):
But not that good. Huh?

10 (15m 43s):
Living like Joe is something I can only recommend to the hardiest of people and, and people who really enjoy living like Joe and I did not. So I got rid of it very, very quickly, but it was a fascinating experience. It was kind of like getting into a part or getting into a role.

1 (15m 56s):
I really want to know more about why it is people would even want to live like Joe and what exactly living like Joe entails. But let's just start with, you know, how Joe got to be Joe for everyone who hasn't seen news radio, let's say, where did Joe Rogan come from? Exactly.

10 (16m 13s):
Well, first of all, if you haven't seen news radio, she'd go back and watch it. Cause it's a great show, but not because of Joe Rogan. Joe Rogan is one of the supporting characters. He was a standup comedian who was getting one of his first supporting roles on a TV show. It was a bit part. He played like a producer type. He was a conspiracy theorist on the show

11 (16m 28s):
We ever hear in

10 (16m 28s):
1984, heard of it, just kind of funny and ironic given what happened to him in the future

11 (16m 34s):
Subject to some grand social experiment engineered by on named unseen forces, headquartered under some mountain in Virginia or something.

12 (16m 43s):
Wait a minute, Joe. If what you're saying is true, then I still don't,

10 (16m 50s):
But he was sort of a BC list successful, but not particularly admired comedian. He sort of broke out as a name because of fear factor.

11 (16m 59s):
And this box is separated in three sections. The first section we are head along with 3000 Madagascar hissing cockroaches, the middle section will be a hundred snakes.

10 (17m 10s):
And then especially because calling matches on UFC Well, he is actually my understanding. I'm not a UFC fan, but that he's quite a good UFC broadcast

11 (17m 28s):
And fight for this. To me, this is like Christmas, my birthday, happy new year, April fools, whatever. I can't wait for this fight.

10 (17m 35s):
So that's where his fame came from. So he was sort of building up a fan base through a certain universe of comedy and through a certain universe of UFC, which is going to be a lot of men. Right. And then he starts doing a podcast.

13 (17m 49s):
I love you, mother fuckers. Thank you very much for tuning in. And we are going to do this again. Don't know when, but within a week, right? Yeah. We'll, we'll come in once a week. We might do this once a week, two hours once a week. I think I forget. All right.

10 (18m 3s):
And he's an early podcaster. He's a very early adopter, which is part of the reason for his popularity is just that he was there first.

1 (18m 10s):
And we should say that it is one of the most popular podcasts ever. It's consistently a top the charts for all those people who have never indulged. What does an average episode of the Joe Rogan experience sound

10 (18m 24s):
Like? So first things first, it's a fire hose of Joe Rogan.

5 (18m 27s):
So once we accept virtual reality, regular life is going to be so mundane because you're going to be able to create artificial environments like avatar world. Like you're flying through 2001, a space Odyssey. You're hanging out with the champs. You're going to have haptic suits on that gives you that

10 (18m 42s):
A long, long conversation with someone of a busy and variety of fields. Now, if you take out fighters and comedians, you probably lopped out about 60% of the guest list, but from there, it's across the map from entertainers, your iron

5 (18m 60s):
Man, man, certain dudes just

10 (19m 3s):
Own a role entrepreneurs, scientists, futurist, geneticists, military type, special ops types.

14 (19m 11s):
Speaking of weapons, technology, the U S just a tested a hypersonic weapon. And that's, that's something to keep an eye on

10 (19m 19s):
When right wing types,

5 (19m 22s):
Candace Owens, how are you doing? I'm good. How are you?

10 (19m 25s):
I'm very good. Bernie Sanders has been on there. So there's left wing tied to you.

5 (19m 29s):
Do you get frustrated by the, the time constraints of the debates?

10 (19m 34s):
Absolutely. It's people from all across the political spectrum and conspiracy theorists, loonies, nut jobs, and some dubious scientists mixed in.

15 (19m 43s):
But the point is they admit a bunch of vaccine deaths have happened now from a test. But what was that in June before that?

5 (19m 49s):
So you were just talking about MRNs. Yeah.

15 (19m 52s):
Behavior modification. Yeah. So type in vaccine to cure heroine

10 (19m 57s):
For a lot of people. His first conversation with Elon Musk, which is the infamous one where Elon Musk smoked a joint with him, is that a joint and got himself into trouble with Tesla said

16 (20m 9s):
That stock is down, but Mr. Mask appears to be kind of

10 (20m 12s):
High. That tends to be sort of a gateway drug, no pun intended for fans of Joe Rogan. But I think one of the things that surprised me as I dug deeper into the universe was not just how broad his interests are, but also how broad his audiences. And in 2019, at least when I was reading this article, it was a pretty broad audience. I mean, this guy was very progressive on a lot of issues. So the idea that he was only for the alt-right was just counterfactual. And so it was a pretty big audience of people that you probably wouldn't have anticipated listening to them. Probably a bunch of, you know, you've probably got friends who listened to Joe Rogan were increasingly

1 (20m 53s):
Less friends is the thing.

10 (20m 55s):
Yeah. It's kind of getting hard, like, you know, and that may have been true. Like I said, two or three years ago. The, you, you have friends who listen to Joe Rogan, you can be peaceful with those friends over the last couple of years. If you're still listening to Joe Rogan, you're starting to strain those friendships. But it's almost like the pandemic was the perfect polarizing force for someone like Joe Rogan and his audience, because it plays into all of his weak spots, right? His, his ego about knowing everything and spreading information and having people listen to him, but also his susceptibility to dubious science and his lack of skill at parsing information, but also his audience, his audience tends to be, let's just say it leans toward people who reject conventional wisdom.

1 (21m 47s):
This brings us back to what exactly it means to live like Joe Rogan and why exactly people want to do that. You help me understand it.

10 (21m 58s):
You know, there's something fundamentally optimistic about Joe Rogan. There's something proactive. Self-starting believe in yourself, go accomplish things,

5 (22m 11s):
The furniture for a living. And you, you feel a great satisfaction of that. And you sell that furniture. Look, man, for making furniture feels good. If you can do that, you could, you could cut those corners perfectly and sand everything down nice and stain it. And then it's done and you get dissatisfied and you sell it to someone and that pays your bills. That is infinite.

10 (22m 30s):
And that's a very compelling worldview. I think, particularly for a generation of men who, and a lot of cases are struggling for purpose. If your audience is leaning white male, which I think Joe Rogan is, I think that's particularly true. Searching for self worth and value. And maybe if you're leading, right, you're maybe feeling a little attacked and Joe's, you can do it sort of ethos. There's a great version of that. That's just very pull yourself up by your bootstraps. You can do anything, be ambitious, be curious, fill your brain, learn things, try stuff. That's great. Those are the reasons why Joe's as big as he is. It's not because he's a hate monger.

10 (23m 11s):
It's because he's very positive and that's very compelling and persuasive, but it tips dark.

5 (23m 19s):
Unless you're talking to someone who is like 100% African from the darkest place where they're not wearing any clothes all day, and they've developed all that melanin to protect themselves from the sun. You know, even the term black is weird. It's

1 (23m 34s):
And I've heard this defense from him that he's just a regular guy. He's just a comedian asking questions. But the truth is that he is no longer just a regular guy. He is no longer just a comedian asking questions.

5 (23m 47s):
I'm a fucking comedian in a cage fighting commentator when people are coming to me like, this is, this is the source where you go for unbiased representations of what's going on in the world.

10 (23m 58s):
Yeah. He's got a platform of millions and millions of people. And he knows that people listen to him, they respect his authority. They think he knows things. They respect the fact that he interviews, quote unquote experts. And so he gives these people, the veneer, the imprimatur of being worth three hours of Joe Rogan's time. And so we'll, shouldn't you listen to someone who's worth free hours of Joe Rogan's time. And that kind of confirms of authority. It doesn't matter that he's just a comedian he's lending credibility to the people that he's interviewing. And you know, this is the excuse that John Stewart used to make.

10 (24m 41s):
When, when people would criticize him, it'd be like, I'm not a politician. I'm just a comedian making dumb jokes

17 (24m 46s):
That leads into me, his puppets making crank.

10 (24m 49s):
It's one thing to play comedian when you're making a bad joke or maybe offending someone. But what does being a comedian have to do with spreading misinformation about a pandemic it's just as bad to spread lies when you're a comedian, they're not funny lies.

1 (25m 9s):
Do we know what Joe Rogan really

10 (25m 11s):
Believes? You know, he's very outspoken on a lot of issues. I mean, I think you would sort of describe him almost as a pretty classic libertarian. He recently moved to Austin, which he adored,

5 (25m 23s):
But I'm enjoying Austin. So I love it. That's great. It's dope city.

10 (25m 28s):
It should be the head of the Austin travel board. He's so enthusiastic about Austin and Texas. And a big part of it is the commitment to personal Liberty that Texas is famous for. He's a big fan of personal Liberty at the same time, you know, he's pro universal health care. He says that he was pro Bernie Sanders. But now that he's struck out into the COVID lands, it's cast him into a universe that only the, the Trump guys are living in. And I think even he sensing that the extent that he's apologizing for this, I think can be read in a bunch of ways. First of all, I genuinely don't think that he wants to be that guy.

10 (26m 9s):
I don't think that Joe Rogan likes to be thought of as a purveyor of misinformation. I think he likes to think of himself as really curious and how someone who's sharing a lot of really good information with, with people, but also he doesn't want to be associated with the Trump, right? That's that's not his crew. That's not his gang. And I do think at a certain point over the last 24, 48 hours, he's probably been getting some pressure from Spotify because this has been getting rough.

1 (26m 37s):
I mean, there's some estimates that Spotify lost something like $2 billion in market value last week, over this controversy and the sort of cancel Spotify, hashtag movement that ensued. Do you think this is something that might lead this, you know, modern day prophet of sorts to reconsider his approach to just being that, you know, curious dude who asks questions when some of the people he might be asking those questions of might be spreading some harmful information.

10 (27m 14s):
Yeah, I hope it does cause him to take some real steps. Toward fact checking, being careful with the guests that he chooses and even his own opinions that being said, we're grown adults and the final responsibility for parsing information lies with each of us. We can expect Joe Rogan to do better. But one thing I came away from my weeks of immersion in all of this noise that Joe Rogan is barfing out into the universe is that fundamentally, we're going to have to make the choices about what we listen into and what we don't listen to. And Joe Rogan is a comedian.

10 (27m 57s):
His podcast is an entertainment podcast. You should not be listening to it for deep medical advice about how to handle COVID. You just shouldn't. And he shouldn't be held to that standard because that's not what he's aspiring to. He just shouldn't be actively spreading misinformation. And if he's going to take a step in that direction, that's great. And you know, maybe Neil young we'll we'll come back. But I, I did notice a friend of mine sent me something very funny, which was a screen grab from apple music of their homepage saying get caught up on Neil young.

1 (28m 40s):
Yeah, I think that's why we're not talking about Neil young right now because all of this might've been good publicity for it.

10 (28m 46s):
Neil young did great.

18 (29m 7s):
There is no reason for you. It's so hard. <em></em>

1 (29m 19s):
Devin. Gordon's an author who sometimes goes full method on Joe Rogan. You can find his piece about Joe over@theatlantic.com. It's titled why is Joe Rogan so popular earlier in the show you heard from Ashley Carmen, she writes the hot pod newsletter. It's all about the podcast industry. You can find it@hotpodnews.com. Our show today was produced by will read and Amina. <em></em> edited by Matthew Collette engineered by a FEMA Shapiro. In fact, checked by Laura Bullard. The rest of the team includes Halima Shaw, Hottie, Milwaukee, D miles, Brian and Victoria Chamberlain. We use music by Breakmaster cylinder and no I'm Hassenfeld boxes.

1 (29m 58s):
VP of audio is Liz Kelly Nelson it's February Noel king is going to start hosting the show in two weeks. Get ready, happy lunar new year I'm Sean Robins from today explained as part of the Vox media podcast network.