0 (1s):
For weeks, Sri Lankans have been out in the streets,

1 (4s):
Cost of living crisis. After a pandemic has brought thousands to the streets.

0 (13s):
They're screaming, go home, GOTA, GOTA, go home, go to his alleged war criminal go-to by a Roger puck. So the country's president home is like, literally get out of office. But also home is weirdly the sunny suburbs of Southern California. That's where gutta lived before becoming president of Sri Lanka

4 (34s):
Go to buy a Rajapaksa was doing what anybody does that at trader Joe's parking lot. He was with his family and he was going on and grocery shopping trip,

0 (44s):
The economic and political crisis in Sri Lanka and what the United States might do. If that countries alleged war criminal, president runs back to his house. And so Cal ahead, onto today, explain

5 (1m 0s):
This podcast is brought to you by America's beverage companies who are working together to reduce plastic waste in our environment. Not all plastic is the same at the Coca-Cola company. Keurig Dr. Pepper and Pepsi co bottles are made to be remained. These companies are carefully designing their bottles to be 100% recyclable, including the caps. They're also investing in community recycling improvements so that every recycled bottle can become a new one that helps complete the circle and reduce plastic waste one to help them get every bottle back, visit every bottle back.org.

6 (1m 36s):
Dakota is a show about how big ideas really work and where they might go wrong. Hosted by me, Neil Patel editor in chief of the verge. I interview CEOs, policymakers, tech, experts, and creators about how they make decisions and how those decisions affect our shared future for better or worse past episodes have covered everything from self-driving cars to crypto, to social media moderation. It's a thoughtful, critical conversation about business and technology that you will not hear anywhere else. Follow Dakota, wherever you find your podcasts, new episodes come out every Tuesday.

7 (2m 18s):
So Sri Lanka is currently in a severe economic crisis.

0 (2m 22s):
This is a meta, a rude progressive she's a policy analyst and writer based in the Capitol Colombo.

7 (2m 28s):
Yes, city of the central bank, governor nonetheless embarrassing. They said that there weren't enough reserves to impart essential items even for two weeks. And he warned that the economy would collapse beyond redemption. Those are his words. If politicians fail to form a new government within two days to return the country to some sort of political stability due to the pressure from the protests, the prime minister, my hinder Roger boxer was actually compelled to resigned. And now the entire Sri Lankan cabinet stands dissolved, and there are talks underway to form a new interim government.

0 (2m 59s):
That's a big deal up until this week. The Roger pucks, a family essentially had a choke hold on the entire Sri Lankan government.

7 (3m 7s):
The mean demands of protestors at these protests has been, of course not just for the prime minister to resign, but also his brother, the president got her by Rajapaksa to resign as well. Some of the slogans include things like go home, go into, and I've even seen protestors polling our boards saying that they'd like the president returned back to America because the president was a naturalized citizen of the United States until very recently,

0 (3m 35s):
If Sri Lanka is president go to buy a Roger pucks, a war to flee Sri Lanka, amidst protest and say return to the United States where he used to live. And up until recently was a naturalized citizen. He'd be presenting the U S government with some interesting questions. Like, is it our responsibility to figure out if this guy is guilty of mass murder and a host of war crimes, we're going to try and answer that question on the show today. But first we're going to explain who the Roger pucks is, are, and how they came to run Sri Lanka into the ground. I'm gonna try and get you up to speed quickly here. The Roger boxes were born to a prominent political family in Sri Lanka. Go-to by a Roger pucks that joined the Sri Lankan military in the 1970s.

0 (4m 17s):
When his brother Mahinda became president of the country in 2005, he made gutta the secretary of defense. The two of them then set about ending a civil war that had been raging throughout the island for a few decades, that civil war pitted the ethnic Tamil minority against the Singhalese majority. The backstory there is long and complicated, but colonialism didn't help. The British favored. The Tamils when Sri Lanka gained independence, the Singhalese took over Tamils were underrepresented that led to conflict. The Tamil tigers, a guerrilla force was born. They wanted an independent state in the Northeast of the country. They terrorize civilians a war began, but the Roger pucks has figured out how to end that war.

0 (5m 1s):
They were brutal. Estimates say tens of thousands were murdered reports say women and girls were raped to the Victor, goes to spoils and it's estimated the Roger pucks of brothers have misappropriated billions of dollars. And they've been more or less empowered ever since Mahinda was president for 10 years, he's been prime minister. A handful of times go to Baya became president in 2019 and various other brothers have been in various cabinet positions and littered elsewhere throughout the government. Despite claims of corruption, nepotism, and war crimes. These guys have won election after election after election until maybe now, now it finally seems like the Roger pucks era could come to an end and it won't be a political opponent that really defeats them.

0 (5m 52s):
It'll be fallout from COVID-19

7 (5m 55s):
During the pandemic. And after gotabaya Rajapaksa was elected, the government implemented lots of policies that were very detrimental and actually exacerbated some of Sri Lanka, structural economic weaknesses, tax cuts, import substitution policies, a chemical fertilizer ban, which devastated our agricultural years. And they failed to address any of Sri Lanka's structural weaknesses, including a lower tax to GDP ratio, weak export performance. And so on. Sri Lanka already had an incredibly high debt to GDP ratio and very low levels of government revenues. So in 2021 about two-thirds of our revenue was used to make debt service payments, and, you know, the tax cuts, for example, Sri Lanka taxpayers by about 33% dropped our tax revenue by about 25% and way incredibly devastating.

7 (6m 51s):
We just didn't have enough revenue to make our debt repayments. And we started to be shut out of international financial markets when we were consistently downgraded by credit rating agencies. That didn't think that we would be able to make good on our payments,

0 (7m 8s):
Which is I imagine how the protests began. Yeah,

7 (7m 10s):
Exactly. So for at least two months now, POTUS is across the country. They've been peacefully registering their discontent at Sri Lanka as worsening economic environment.

8 (7m 25s):
I came here to show my support for the people who are doing the protest. And also I believe that we need to do a part to stop this corruption.

7 (7m 36s):
Sometimes it was people standing in line for gas. We just got fed up and started to protest. Sometimes it was individuals in a neighborhood who started putting out black arts, but then these small protests started to escalate when the country experienced drug shortages, fuel shortages and power cuts

9 (7m 55s):
More than a dozen houses. Belonging to leading politicians were vandalized. Local TV also showed protesters, toppling buses and pushing cars into the water.

7 (8m 5s):
In hospitals. For example, the drug shot has meant that surgeries were unable to be performed Pepa for the last couple of months, have been finding it harder and harder to afford food. We've seen people upon a way their jewelry to just, just to make ends meet and lots of people, lots of families complaining that they've had to forgo meals so that they can afford our, the essentials. And that's really where you see these protests attracting in more people. About two days ago, supporters of prime minister Mahindra Parkside list.

7 (8m 49s):
He was the prime minister then were bused to his official residence for a show of strength. Before the prime minister was intended to resign. His resignation was in part a result of increasing public pressure. And we then saw these pro government groups attacked to protest sites,

11 (9m 8s):
Hundreds of ruling party supporters, storm, and anti-government protest site outside Srilanka is presidential office tearing down tents and attacking its inhabitants.

7 (9m 18s):
And a lot of this was caught on, on tip showing these pro government groups, attacking protesters, including women. And so in the last week, following this incident, which was, which was captured and shared widely on, on social media, retaliatory of islands occur as well.

11 (9m 36s):
Police say the violence led to several deaths, including an MP who shot two people when a mob swarmed his car before killing himself.

7 (9m 44s):
But the president refuses to resign. He said he would appoint a prime minister, a new prime minister cabinet acceptable to the public within this week and reintroduce a constitutional amendment, which includes some checks and balances on executive power. He also said he would abolish the executive presidency, but we've seen a state of emergency being imposed curfew was. And yesterday we were also toured by the defense ministry that the armed forces were now instructed to open fire if necessary to qualify islands. There are a lot of parallels, I suppose, between the way the civil war and its aftermath was managed.

7 (10m 27s):
And the way that protesters are being managed. Now, you saw after the end of the war, the Tamar community being alienated and demonized as individuals who could not be trusted as extremists, and that kind of rhetoric was deployed as well against the protesters as politically motivated groups, extremist radicals. But if this situation ends anything like the end of the civil war dead, then there's a good reason for the Sri Lankan population to be fearful.

0 (11m 7s):
That was a meta Arup. Rogosin from Colombo in a minute. What happens if this goes the other way, if I go to buy a Roger PEXA is run out of office all the way to California it's today explained Support for the show than it comes from. Wondering who would like to remind you that competition is a very powerful phenomena and it shapes what you buy and how you live and, and their podcast business wars brings you stories about when most well-known brands in the world go toe to toe. And then they say they have over 50 seasons to choose from Nike versus Adidas, iPhone versus black Haagen Daz versus Ben and Jerry's.

0 (11m 57s):
And I was like, that's all well and fine, but 50 seasons, that must be some kind of typo. So then I went over to the search engine there and I, and I scrolled and it was like show 10 more. And I was like, okay, show 10 more. Okay. Showcase show 10 more. Okay. 50 seasons. You can listen to on Amazon music, apple podcasts, or wherever you listen, or listen, one week early to these, you know, 50 next seasons and add free by joining one repless plus an apple podcast or the Wondery app 50 seasons. It's more than friends

4 (12m 32s):
For pretty much all of human history. People have been trying to interpret dreams.

12 (12m 40s):
No, I'm Hassenfeld

13 (12m 41s):
Northern floss in house. Yeah,

12 (12m 48s):
It sounds like,

13 (12m 51s):
But it totally isn't.

0 (12m 53s):
It

4 (12m 54s):
Can't just be,

2 (12m 58s):
It's gotta be a little bit,

12 (12m 59s):
I don't know how my brain Can explain

4 (13m 22s):
Our dreams, telling us anything important. And should we listen to them? Subscribe to unexplainable, new episodes every Wednesday, wherever you get your podcasts

0 (13m 38s):
Today explained Ramez from or back immediately before go to buy a Rodger box. I became president of Sri Lanka. He was living the suburban dream in Southern California. In fact, while he was living in Soquel, some people actually tried to hold him to account for war crimes. In fact, they tried to hold him to account in the parking lot of a trader Joe's. And if you were wondering what go to buy a Raja Boxell was doing in the parking lot of a trader Joe's in mantras, California, we asked Ike Cerise Conda Raja. He recently answered that question for reveal.

4 (14m 13s):
Well, go to buy a Rajapaksa was doing what anybody does set at trader Joe's parking lot. And he was with his family and he was going on and grocery shopping trip. The thing that makes him a little different than the rest of the customers is that he was being followed there. So this private investigator is following him.

15 (14m 36s):
I do a lot of fraud. I do a lot of missing person cases. And then I do hard. Sir.

4 (14m 43s):
She's been hired to tail this guy, And she specializes in delivering legal documents to people who are especially hard to find. When I talked to her, she just could barely remember or pronounce his name. She said

15 (15m 0s):
The subject was go to and forgive me. I cannot remember his last name

4 (15m 5s):
Anyway. So she's following him. And she's kind of looking over her shoulder. She's looking for secret service detail, some kind of military presence that would protect this high-level military figure. But there's nobody. I mean, he's just there with his family in this parking lot. And that's when she decides to move.

15 (15m 29s):
When I got out, I called for his name and when I called his name, he turned around. And then when I walked up to him, I noticed his wife was looking at me, who is this person? And I went to hand him the envelope and he reached out to, to receive it. And as soon as I said, and you've been served, he quickly pulled his hand behind his back. Since he refused to take it, I just dropped him at a seat.

17 (15m 58s):
Good job. Good job.

18 (15m 59s):
Come on. Let's go.

0 (16m 7s):
What is he being served with? What are these legal docs?

4 (16m 12s):
Yeah. So the contents of that Manila envelope contained legal documents for two civil lawsuits.

0 (16m 20s):
This is an alleged war criminal. Why is it civil?

4 (16m 24s):
It's a civil lawsuit because for years, these human rights groups who are bringing this lawsuit on behalf of go-to's alleged victims had wanted the department of justice to bring a criminal federal investigation and prosecution from the U S government. And this was really their last ditch attempt to hold him accountable in a us court happens to be a civil court. And the U S government has a really bad track record of ever prosecuting alleged war criminals on us soil.

0 (17m 0s):
But we have tried in the United States

4 (17m 3s):
For decades. The us government has known about alleged war criminals living here, and they have tried for years to try to hold them accountable. And this really started to become a issue that a lot of people were paying attention to after Nazi war criminals were found, living in the U S after world war II. Anyway, this all leads to congressional action. And the president Jimmy Carter at the time launches a new investigative outfit based inside the department of justice and Nazi hunting unit.

0 (17m 43s):
We had a Nazi hunting unit.

4 (17m 45s):
We had a Nazi hunting unit of great renowned, the office of special investigations, and one of the original Nazi hunters, Eli Rosenbaum was there at the beginning, and he's still at the department of justice now. And I interviewed him for this story.

19 (18m 3s):
It took our own country, nearly 30 years from when the first world war two Nazi criminal was found in the United States to finally launch in 1979, a comprehensive program to identify, investigate and prosecute the cases.

0 (18m 16s):
So how did it go? Did it work? Did the Nazi hunting unit accomplish a whole lot of stuff?

4 (18m 20s):
Yeah. In some ways they were incredibly efficient and good at their jobs. Dozens of Nazi war prosecutors were tried in us courts. And in that way it was really effective. And in another way, it was really disappointing. How come the charges that were brought against them were only for immigration issues. And that's because genocide war crimes, crimes against humanity, those warrant crimes under us law.

0 (18m 54s):
How is it that the United States doesn't have laws on the books in the late seventies, early eighties against the greatest crimes men can commit

4 (19m 7s):
That's because Congress hadn't passed them. The president hadn't signed them

19 (19m 11s):
In the 1990s. I questioned a suspect of ours, Jacob Rhymer. He lived in north of New York city and came into the us attorney's office in Manhattan, get admitted to participation in genocide, mass murder. And the law just wasn't there. All we could do was a bid him farewell to go back out of the building and take Metro north home.

4 (19m 35s):
There had been members of Congress who had been working on this issue for advocating that we should have these laws for years.

20 (19m 45s):
I am Senator William Proxmire, Wisconsin. The genocide convention or treaty is pending before the United States Senate foreign relations committee. And I feel that we should have passed this treaty long ago, and it's disgraceful that we haven't passed it yet,

4 (20m 3s):
But it didn't pass until that Senator was just about to retire in 1988. And that was the first time the us passed a what's known as substantive human rights law, criminalizing genocide.

0 (20m 19s):
Huh? So we do have these types of laws on the books. Now we just didn't. Then

4 (20m 25s):
We didn't then. So the genocide statute that criminalized the intentional destruction of an entire group of people that passed in 1,988 and in the coming years and decades, the us passed other substantive human rights statutes against torture war crimes. And most recently as of 2008, the recruitment of child soldiers.

0 (20m 53s):
Okay. So by 2008, the United States has a whole host of, of laws on the books against these kinds of international crimes against humanity. How often are they pursuing these kinds of cases in the United States?

4 (21m 9s):
Well, the department of justice had a pretty big victory. After that last human rights statute was passed in 2008, they had their first conviction under any substantive human rights law. And it was a case against the son of the Liberian dictator, Charles Taylor, Chuckie, Taylor, Jr. He was the first person convicted of any substantive human rights law. And he was convicted of torture and a Florida judge sentenced him to 97 years. She is currently still serving.

0 (21m 43s):
So that's like one instance, one instance of many, or that's just the one, that's

4 (21m 48s):
Just the one.

0 (21m 50s):
Why is that? Is the United States afraid to prosecute these kinds of crimes? Because someone might turn around and try and arrest George W. Bush for torture when he goes to Munich for Oktoberfest.

4 (22m 2s):
I mean, I think what you're pointing at is that one of the central challenges to this work is us prosecuting international war crimes. It has a ring of hypocrisy to it because the U S is also accused of committing international war crimes. And the department of justice has never charged us officials using those top shelf criminal statutes either.

0 (22m 27s):
So if I go to leave Sri Lanka and comes back to the United States, it sounds like it's pretty unlikely that he will stand trial for these alleged war crimes.

4 (22m 38s):
It's unlikely that he would be charged criminally charged under these substantive statutes that have never been used for his alleged war crimes. It's much more likely that once he loses head of state immunity, that there's a possibility of the civil suits reaching him again. Hmm.

0 (22m 59s):
What were those civil suits?

4 (23m 1s):
One is from a Tamil man who was detained and alleged and accuses the former defense secretary, current president of Sri Lanka of illegally detaining him and torturing him. And it also contains another lawsuit brought by the family of one of the most prominent and critical journalists who was killed in 2009. And his family holds the defense secretary responsible for that murder. The journalist's name is lasantha <inaudible>, <inaudible> launched this series of articles, accusing the defense secretary, good to buy a Rajapaksa of corruption in this complicated armed steel go to then sued him for that.

4 (23m 57s):
And Lasanta was supposed to appear in court with more information of the allegations from his investigation. But shortly before he was scheduled to appear in court, a group of men on motorcycles, attacked his car and killed him in the streets of Colombo, not far from the Sunday leader, But just before he died, he actually predicted his own assassination. Like on some biggie prophecy level stuff.

4 (24m 44s):
He addressed this letter to the people. He would, he held responsible for killing him. And I ended up talking to one of his former colleagues who was just a young fledgling Cub reporter when she first interviewed with Lasanta to become a reporter at the Sunday leader. And I asked <inaudible> if she would mind reading an excerpt of that letter, that final posthumous essay.

21 (25m 18s):
I hope my assassination will be seen not as a defeat of freedom, but an inspiration for those who survive to step up their efforts. Indeed, I hope that it will galvanize forces that will usher in a new era of human Liberty in our beloved motherland. I also hope it will open the eyes of your president to the fact that however many are slaughtered in the name of patriotism. The human spirit will endow and flourish. Not all the Rajapaksa combined can kill that

0 (25m 54s):
I <inaudible> is with reveal over at the center for investigative reporting. You can find reveal wherever you find today, explained his episode about by Roger Rajapaksa and prosecuting war crimes and more criminals in the United States dropped just a few weeks ago. It's called my neighbor, the suspected war criminal it's much longer and way more in depth than what we could do here today. It's also fascinating. Go listen. I like Ike I'm Sean Rama's firm. I edited today's show with Matthew Collette, Heidi Milwak D and Halima shop produced it. Paul mousey engineered Laura Bullard. Fact-checked with help from Tori Domingas. Thank you for listening.