1 (1s):
Earlier this year, the FDA approved the first non-hormonal drug to treat hot flashes, a nasty side effect of menopause.

2 (9s):
It's a huge deal. It's called Felina Natan, and everyone is rejoicing because it's extraordinarily effective. I mean, major, major reduction in hot flashes within an average of four weeks.

1 (22s):
Then in October, researchers in Uganda discovered that female chimps in the wild also go through menopause. This change affects a lot of people and chimps too. Us Our sisters. Our moms,

3 (34s):
Yes ma'am. I have gone through menopause. It took me a long time. Mine lasted about nine years,

1 (41s):
But no one talks about it.

0 (42s):
Did,

2 (43s):
Did Grandma Helen talk to you about

3 (45s):
Menopause? Oh gosh, no. No.

1 (49s):
We're gonna talk about it. All the menopause questions you didn't know you had, I had no idea coming up on today. Explained

BetterHelp (59s):
Support for today. Explain comes from BetterHelp. The holidays can be a lot of fun, like, you know, the parties and reconnecting with friends and family, but, but it's not for everyone. Some people don't like that stuff. And, and the holidays could keep you from feeling those sad feelings or at least help you through a tough time. If you're looking for convenient, affordable online therapy, you might wanna try BetterHelp. You can find your bright spot this season with BetterHelp. Visit BetterHelp dot com slash explain today to get 10% off your first month. That's better. hlp.com/ Explained

Atlassian (1m 28s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian Atlassian. software like Jira, confluence and Trello help power global collaboration for all teams so they can accomplish everything that's impossible alone, because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. No matter if you're a team of two, 200 or two million Atlassian software keeps everyone connected and moving together as one to towards shared company goals. Learn how to unleash the potential of your team at Atlassian dot com. That's A-T-L-A-S s A n.com.

5 (2m 1s):
Atlassian

1 (2m 16s):
It is today explained. I'm Noel King. Jancee. Dunn writes a column called Well for the New York Times, and she also wrote this book,

2 (2m 24s):
Hot and Bothered. What No One Tells You about Menopause and How to feel like yourself again. you know, I can remember when I was putting together this book, I thought, okay, well what, what books are out there on menopause? Seemingly thousands of books on pregnancy. I mean, there was just, you know, shelf after shelf and then there was one book. I have a Nice library too. There was one book on menopause, one, it was written in the nineties. The pages were yellow. It was very old. And I thought, wow, given the proportion of time that women spend in menopause, you enter it and you don't leave, you stay in it. So the average age of menopause is 51 and, and the average lifespan for women is, is 80.

2 (3m 4s):
So that's decades and decades that you're in it yet. Who knew? I didn't know either. And I write about health

6 (3m 9s):
Anyway. I told him about my fever and my insomnia and my brain problems. you know how I can't remember anything. And he told me he thought I could be at the beginning of menopause. No. Yeah, that's what I said.

2 (3m 21s):
I started getting symptoms when I was 45. And you know, when you're in your forties, you're not thinking about that at all. But that is when perimenopause starts most often in your forties. And so I remember I got a, a racing heart. That's one of the symptoms, the, the, you know, the supposedly 35 symptoms. And, and I thought, oh, okay, I'm, I'm going to have a heart attack, you know? And then I got other symptoms. My, my skin dried out. I went to the dermatologist. All these things were happening. And I didn't connect the dots because I just wasn't in that headspace. Like in your forties, you know, sometimes people have young kids, they're working, they're taking care of elderly parents, they've got pets, they've got this, they've got, you're just not there.

2 (4m 9s):
And I also had equated menopause with, oh, that happens when you're older. You know, oh, that's, that's kind of like golden girls territory. I didn't realize that It was in my forties. And when I finally put it together, I had seen, I don't even know how many doctors can you list, all 35 symptoms. I can, are you ready for some fun? I don't mean to scare people to death. I really don't mean to scare people to death. I, I interviewed don don't even know how many experts for this book. And they would say, please tell readers sometimes you don't have any symptoms. Some women absolutely sail through it with no symptoms. Sometimes you just get a cluster of symptoms and it's not so bad. But here, here are all the symptoms because it is helpful to know if you're in your forties and some of these are starting to happen, put it together and maybe see your doctor.

2 (4m 53s):
Here we go. Hot flashes. Of course, everyone knows about that, right? It's in all the sitcoms. Women like fanning themselves and night sweats.

7 (5m 2s):
Well, it don't feel very beautiful. I feel like I'm jumping in and out of a hot bath and somebody's twisting a rubber band around my head.

2 (5m 12s):
Irregular periods. I'll go back to that because that's a major tell when you have perimenopause is just one, one month. It's the mighty Mississippi River. The next, it's a trickle. Okay? Anyway, mood swings, libido tends to go south. Breast soreness, headaches, vaginal dryness, a big one. Burning mouth, huh? What? But yes, tingling in hands and feet. I got that one. Gum disease, extreme fatigue, bloating, digestive problems, joint pain, depression, muscle aches, itchy skin, electric shocks. Another who knew, but, but quite common apparently terrible sleep, brain fog, memory lapses, thinning hair, brittle nails.

2 (5m 59s):
Mine were like baklava, weight gain, incontinence. Oh yes, dizziness or vertigo, me too. Increased allergies. Loss of bone density, that's a big one to keep an eye on. Irregular heartbeat, which I mentioned I had Weird new body odor, also common irritability, anxiety and panic disorder. And, and there might even be more, but those are kind of the major ones. And they certainly take people by surprise.

1 (6m 30s):
I am fucking furious right now. No, it's

2 (6m 35s):
A lot. It's a lot. And I'm, you know, I don't mean to put a s A meno positivity spin on these things, but like you will get through them eventually. But yeah, I know you're, are you absorbing All that it's it's a lot. It's

1 (6m 49s):
A lot. It's, it's a lot. And, and here's the thing, that's, that feels very weird to me. Women, girls even do talk about our periods and it's actually even kind of fun when like you're a teenager and you're like, Ooh, we're all getting it

8 (7m 1s):
First. Jenny got it. Then stupid Vicky got it. And I tried everything to get my periods.

1 (7m 8s):
We do talk about pregnancy, some of that chat is less fun in my experience, but, but we don't talk about menopause and that is really strange to me. It's like we got two out of three that we talk about all a lot all the time. And then suddenly we go silent. You're

2 (7m 25s):
Right. There are so many rituals around different life transitions. And I received the talk, I remember my mom took me out to dinner. It was a, it was a big thing And you know, I had the period talk. You receive the talk for their first period. No one gives a talk for your last period. Never. It's just not part of these life rituals that we have. Baby showers, bat mitzvahs, you know, there's all kinds of different rituals that you go through. I had a baby shower where people would share knowledge with me and tips and oh, here's what happened when I went through it, you know, and absolutely nothing for this life transition. And I was thinking, wouldn't it be so great if there was Like, a menopause shower where people could share what's going on with them and what worked for them.

2 (8m 12s):
And maybe you could even get some gifts like neck cream because your neck really starts to dry out or, or you know, vaginal lube or, or whatever. But just to normalize it and to let people know what's coming. Because the really important part of this is how we're still like, I love so much that you're having me on and we're talking about it and you're helping to further the conversation. That's how it's going to be normalized, right? It's, it's not gonna happen with policy. It's going to happen with us all talking about it.

9 (8m 42s):
I mean, the question is, were you open with your family about the symp, how the symptoms were affecting you? But obviously I didn't know that you were having those symptoms for 10 years.

2 (8m 53s):
I think.

1 (8m 54s):
No,

3 (8m 54s):
I think I, I wasn't open at all. I don't talk about, I didn't talk about myself that much about it. Mm. Why? It's one of those topics that everybody jokes about like oh God, menopause. Like we all, we know it's the worst. I just tolerated it.

2 (9m 8s):
I want it to not be a shock. I want it to be familiar because part of the, part of the shock is that you don't know what it's about and you don't know when it's coming and you don't know that there are treatments out there. So we had a, my mother and I had a really long conversation and that's also good for your health records. Like it's good to know when, if they can remember my mom, it took a lot of prompting for my mom. I was like, okay, when did you go through menopause? Was it the, the Carter administration? What? Do you remember any, how old was I? It took a while. 'cause she was kind of, she had, she's in denial about it. But it's helpful to know and If you if your mother is no longer living other relatives who had it, you know, it's just, that's helpful information.

2 (9m 51s):
If, you go to your doctor to talk about menopause, which is another thing that I recommend. What

1 (9m 55s):
I think I hear you saying is that what's behind all the silence is that generationally speaking, the generations that have come before us have been hesitant to talk about a lot of things that are quote unquote women's issues, including maybe periods and pregnancies. Things that Gen X, myself, a millennial are much more comfortable talking about. And so what's happening here really is just a generational shift in the ways that Gen X has pushed us forward in the ways that older millennials have pushed us forward. We're doing that again. We're doing it with menopause.

2 (10m 28s):
Exactly. And I have such high hopes for the generations that are coming up because they are so much more transparent. you know, celebrities talk about it and half the time they are pushing products.

10 (10m 42s):
Stripes was formulated specifically for perimenopausal and menopausal skin. Our patent pending ine and squalling formulation provides superior moisture and hydration where you need it the most.

11 (10m 55s):
So what is the criteria? One of right, what is the criteria for for menopausal clothing? Well you want clothing that breeds, you need clothing that you can layer because you go from hot flashes to cold flashes and we, we wanna make sure that, you know, we've got something for both. I talked a little bit about the menopause middle. It's

2 (11m 10s):
They see that there's money to be made and fine, I don't care because they're still talking about it and they still carry some weight. And And, it gives people permission like it or not to talk about it, you know, themselves. I used to write about health and also beauty. So I would get sent these menopause products and I noticed that back when, when I was growing up, the few things available for menopause symptoms that you could buy in a store, they were always in these like sad brown plastic containers and there would be Like, a picture of a sunset on them if it was Like, a supplement or like dried leaves, you know? And now they're very luxurious.

2 (11m 52s):
They're meant to be displayed and not hidden away, you know, with your skin tag removal cream, they're meant to be like put, you know, right there on the counter for people to see, they'll say the word menopause on it instead of some like stupid euphemism. And I think that's great too.

3 (12m 12s):
Even the doctors didn't really talk about the menopause. No, I just knew I was gonna not have a period. So that was fantastic, but I was not really prepared for the other things that came with it.

9 (12m 22s):
Okay, so you knew you weren't gonna have a period and you knew you were gonna be sweaty, but other than that you were just kind of winging it

3 (12m 28s):
Completely. Winging it

1 (12m 35s):
Coming up. The reason we are all winging it, guess how much time gynecologists spend on menopause in medical school? You will not believe it.

Eli Lilly and Company (13m 37s):
Fox Creative, This is advertiser content from Eli Lilly and company. Dr. Brandy Matthews is a neurologist in Alzheimer's disease expert at Lilly who thinks the first step to tackling Alzheimer's is knowing what it is and what it isn't. Alzheimer's disease at the early stages, the signs and symptoms may be ignored. I, I think in part due to the association of the disease with advancing age and a lack of understanding that there's an ongoing disease process, not part of normal aging. So what might be the difference between forgetting an appointment and forgetting the name of your hometown amyloid plaque? An amyloid plaque's a clump of misfolded protein that abnormally accumulates inside of the brain and then triggers a cascade of other events. This eventually leads to disrupted communication between the brain cells. Tests are available to check for the abnormally folded sticky proteins in the brain that are associated with Alzheimer's disease, using brain PET scans, cerebral spinal fluid tests, and even more recently with some specialized blood tests. Diagnosis that's timely in a patient's disease course may also have an impact on the progression of the disease. If the intervention happens early. Empower yourself with knowledge If, you are noticing memory and thinking issues. Go to more than normal aging.com to learn more about what you can

13 (15m 14s):
do.

Quince (15m 17s):
Support for the show today comes from Quince most holiday gift lists start out tame, but just a few fancy gadgets and novelty accessories. And you might find yourself exceeding your holiday budget. Dad Quince can help you there with a high quality timeless piece to add to a loved one's wardrobe. I've personally never added a high quality timeless piece to a loved one's wardrobe. I don know if that's true, but Sarah Frank, who works on the business side of Vox, she has, what I really enjoy about Quince is how high quality the pieces are for the price. I ordered the organic heavyweight fleece sweatpants, which are super thick and have really deep pockets. I know I'll be staying cozy wearing these at home and even running a few errands all winter long. You Can get affordable luxury. For everyone on your list with quince, go to quince.com/explain for free shipping on your order and 365 day return. That's QUIN c.com/explain to get free shipping and 365 day returns. quince.com/explained

Atlassian (16m 27s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian Atlassian. software like Jira, confluence and Trello help power the collaboration for teams to accomplish what would otherwise be impossible alone. Because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. That's why millions of teams around the world, including 75% of the Fortune 500 trust Atlassian software for everything from space exploration and green energy to delivering pizzas and podcasts. Whether you're a team of two, 200 or 2 million, or whether your team is around the corner or around another continent together, Atlassian software is built to help keep you all on the same page from start to finish. That way every one of your teams from engineering And it to marketing, HR and legal can stay connected and moving together as one towards shared company-wide goals, learn how to unleash the potential of your team at Atlassian dot com. That's at L-A-S-S-I-A n.com.

5 (17m 22s):
Atlassian,

3 (17m 29s):
I would heat up internally. I used to say it was like your body was in a microwave oven cooking from the inside out. That's how I would describe it. It's beautiful.

1 (17m 38s):
It's today explained Jancee Dunn, author of the new book about menopause, hot and bothered Jancee. You said you started perimenopause in your forties and I want us to suss out what perimenopause is, what actual menopause is and medically what's going on during this time. So start with perimenopause.

2 (17m 57s):
Perimenopause, which was not even part of the lexicon until the nineties is I know, I know. It's so funny per means around. And so that means the years around menopause leading up to menopause can be four to eight years depending and symptoms can be really faint at first. So it's not like it's this, you know, onslaught of symptoms for eight years. And again that happens most often in a woman's forties. Menopause means that you've gone an entire year without your period. So 12 months with no period whatsoever. If you get your period, if you're counting up and you get it on month nine, you have to start over.

2 (18m 42s):
So it has to be a full 12 months. When it has been 12 months, then you are officially in menopause and again the average age is 51. Then after that you stay in menopause, you're sort of post-menopausal and the symptoms kind of can continue. The one that can continue for a while is vaginal dryness. That tends not to get better. A lot of the doctors told me, so if that's one of your symptoms worth checking out,

3 (19m 11s):
I'm so excited to tell you this as my daughter, your sexual life really suffers. You're not interested in sex. It was really diminished. So

9 (19m 20s):
You had to tell Todd so he could go get like

3 (19m 22s):
Some girlfriends. Yes, I had to tell him as my excuse. And then, you know, to leave me alone,

2 (19m 27s):
Women are socialized not to pay attention to their quality of life and and sometimes with some of these symptoms, if they're being deranged by hot flashes or night sweats, that can affect your quality of life. If, you're not sleeping for weeks at a time and you know, I would urge everyone if they're beaten down by these symptoms, please see a doctor,

1 (19m 48s):
This is gonna sound Like a bizarre question geni, but what is the point of menopause? Why does it happen? I

2 (19m 54s):
Always get excited when I hear it. This is gonna be a bizarre question. I love it. Researchers aren't exactly sure. you know, some people say that our lifespan keeps extending and, and you know, our fertility hasn't caught up with that. It's oversimplifying. But you can think of menopause as reverse puberty. That's what some doctors call it. And. it

16 (20m 14s):
Makes a lot of sense because in puberty you've got those hormonal changes kind of everything's ramping up, right? If, you can remember back then

2 (20m 21s):
When you go through puberty, your system is being flooded with estrogen and other hormones. And when you're going through menopause, it's leaving your system. So it's reverse puberty. Again, that is oversimplifying and I'm not a doctor, but that's a good way to explain it to other people

16 (20m 39s):
That you cycle through your nor natural fertility. And then perimenopause, sort of the opposite of puberty.

1 (20m 44s):
What do gynecologists learn in medical school about menopause?

2 (20m 48s):
I mean really it's only an hour of training and it's, it's not much at all. I know. And you, you think like when you pull back and you just think even just, you know, systemically just knowledge about menopause. It's very interesting. The UK is ahead of us in many ways and menopause is taught in schools for kids. Whoa.

17 (21m 9s):
We've been able to ensure that menopause has been added to the school curriculum in England. If menopause is something that will happen to you or somebody you know or love, then this does matter to you.

2 (21m 22s):
In terms of medical school, it is kind of shocking how little it's addressed when the ramifications of menopause, when the symptoms can can just go on for years at a time and can be really severe

1 (21m 35s):
If you're paying attention to the conversation around menopause. You do hear some about hormone therapy, What, is that, and is that something that if I feel like I'm in perimenopause, I can just go in and ask for?

2 (21m 47s):
You can. And I know people are a little bit leery of hormone therapy after the Women's Health Initiative studies came out in the early aughts linking it to breast cancer and it's since been reanalyzed and there were a lot of flaws in them. There was just a lot of things that have not skewed the results but made them a bit more extreme. So anyway, it's replacing the estrogen that is leaving your body and there's progesterone two, which sort of mitigates the effect of estrogen. If, you just have estrogen, then you can get certain kinds of cancers. And so you can have it on a patch which has been shown to be safer than a pill.

2 (22m 30s):
The current position with the North American Menopause Society and a bunch of other medical organizations is If. you are within 10 years of menopause. If you're in good health, then you should explore the idea of systemic hormones. Meaning you, you take a pill or you have a patch that the benefits could well outweigh the risks. And there's also vaginal estrogen. When estrogen leaves your body, it leaves all the tissues in your body. It's not just your skin, which mine got really rough. It's, it's the skin in your vulva, your vagina.

2 (23m 10s):
And when it leaves your body, your tissues get drier. And so sex can be incredibly painful. And that was another shock to me because it was, not only did I not tell my husband what was going on, I just started avoiding him when it came to sex because I mean, who wants to talk about your, your vagina drying out, right? It's not the sexiest conversation, but I realized I was doing our relationship a disservice because I was avoiding him and he thought that I didn't care about him anymore. And I finally had to tell him what was going on with my body. I thought, oh, I'm doing what my mother was doing and I'm, I'm gritting my teeth about this and I'm keeping quiet.

2 (23m 50s):
Why? He's getting older too. Who cares? Who gives a crap? So I told him what was happening and I also said, you know, so just be patient with me. Here's what's going on with my body. It's reverse puberty. Think of it that way. This, this is what's, this is the result of the estrogen leaving my body. And I went to my OB GYN and I got the frontline treatment for vaginal dryness and it's topical vaginal estrogen. You apply it topically, it's not in your system and three months later sex doesn't hurt and you're not peeing yourself. Peeing yourself is a quality of life issue. And I don't mean to scare everyone to death. You may not pee yourself.

2 (24m 30s):
It may be fine, but topical estrogen was an absolute game changer for me. Again, every it is a personal choice, but another thing that I didn't know was out there.

1 (24m 42s):
When you spoke to women for the book and you talked about menopause and you talked about how doctors had, what doctors had told them how doctors had treated the situation. What are some of the craziest things that women told you their doctors said to them or suggested?

2 (24m 55s):
Oh my God, the two responses that I, I can't, I interviewed countless women that they got were yoga yoga's great, there's lots of research behind yoga, but you can't, you can't pose away everything that's going on with you when you're going through perimenopause or menopause. And the other was have a glass of wine. This came up again and again. So a lot of times for painful sex, just have a glass of wine or for hot flashes, which makes it worse by the way, alcohol. So you can't drink your problems away. It might be fun to try and you can't pose your problems away, but that was the two main things.

2 (25m 38s):
And so, you know, going back to your doctor If, you feel like you're being gaslighted or your symptoms are being minimized. See somebody else.

1 (25m 49s):
How do you think this conversation and how do you think medical advances would be different if men were the ones who went through menopause instead of women?

2 (25m 59s):
Well, I think that hormone therapy would be federally funded. I interviewed several urologists who treat both men and women and they said to me that quality of life is not discussed with my female patients. But men are very upfront if something isn't working, if they're having sexual problems, if they're having problems urinating, you know, they'll come to me right away. It would just be a normal stage of life, just like everything else, And, it would be much more normalized. And you know, right now the onus is on women to change things.

2 (26m 39s):
It's not gonna be at a policy level, is it? It, I mean, you know, not to be cynical, but I don't see anything changing for years and years. But the more we talk about it, the better it will be. And we are making progress. It seems slow, but maybe four years ago I tried to get a menopause book off the ground when I was just starting to figure out that I had symptoms and nobody was interested and this one, 13 publishers were interested. And I thought, ah, okay, this is telling,

3 (27m 12s):
I remember the blood flow being so heavy that it would push the tampon out. Jesus. Do you know what I mean? Like you'd feel the tampon starting to come out like, okay, you know,

9 (27m 20s):
This is on NPR in a bunch of different cities. What if that is in in the radio?

3 (27m 24s):
Go ahead, put it on there. Someone will say yes, that happened to me too.

9 (27m 28s):
That's true. And that's important.

1 (27m 37s):
Today's episode was produced by Victoria Chamberlin. It was edited by Amina Elsa and engineered by Michael Rayfield. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard. You heard Laura's mom, Anne Bullard throughout the show. And we wanna thank Anne for her frankness. And also we wanna thank her for Laura. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.