1 (0s):
Support for this show today explained comes from another show called million bazillion from another show called Marco place in partnership with something called brains on does anyone know what that is. Let me know million bazillion is a new podcast for kids and their families. It's all about money how it works how we use it where it comes from and how we could all get a little bit smarter about it in a fun way million bazillion helping dollars make more sense. Listen and Jibe, wherever you listen And subscribe. It doesn't take an astrophysicist to work out why Americans need a little extra help right.

1 (44s):
Now four million confirmed coronavirus cases and Counting the countries in various states have shut down kids are at home and they may be for a while. If you have a job, you're lucky. If you don't you're living in fear of not making rent or a mortgage payment. It's all pretty obvious. And that's why the government's Tend to help several months ago and supplemented unemployment benefits, but those benefits are set to expire at the end of this week and Democrats and Republicans have a two trillion dollar disagreement on what to do next Matthew yglesias you dig into these kinds of disagreements for Vox on the weeds podcast Republicans unveiled their big coronavirus rescue package on Monday afternoon.

1 (1m 30s):
What are they calling it? It's cause the heels. Exact it's a great adventure in acronym formation. That's Health economic assistance. liability protection And schools heels. Okay. And what's in it, the most important thing to know is it's one trillion dollars, which is smaller than the Democratic proposal and we've allocated that in a way that we think makes the most sense. For the country at this particular time, so it contains some of the same stuff as the Democrats do another round of sort of checks that will go out to most households, which is similar to the Democratic proposal a little bit less generous.

1 (2m 18s):
They extend unemployment insurance, but they cut it from $600 a week to $200 a week. And we want to have something which pays people about seventy percent wage replacement, which I think is a very fair level. So it's not a fixed number. It's something that pays you a percentage of your wages. They're lost its lot of questions about how that's supposed to work. It contains this big liability protection provision. It was important enough that it made it into the acronym and the idea is to make it hard or impossible for someone to sue a business for saying there were responsible for you getting covid-19 M. That's been a sort of important priority for Mitch McConnell started and 3500 lawsuits.

1 (3m 2s):
H file The country cannot stand an epidemic of lawsuits on the heels of the pandemic. We're already working our way through and he's got some money for schools some money for testing a small sort of business loan program. That's a little bit of an interesting idea some extra money for the the PPP business loan program also a little bit of a grab bag of stuff. Like there's 2 billion dollars in there to renovate the FBI headquarters. What who is murmuring to renovate the FBI headquarters. Well, so the FBI headquarters is across the street from the Trump Hotel.

1 (3m 42s):
Yeah and the FBI it appeared at one point wanted to move out of DC to a sort of suburban location. That would be easier to have like scary security features around President Trump didn't like that idea for whatever reason he wanted to renovate the existing FBI facility, which I think is full of asbestos. So that's why it's such a hideously expensive project. Anyway, I mean, this is not that important. But Nancy Pelosi has been talking about it a lot. It's a I think to her it's a signpost of the level of seriousness with which Republicans are undertaking this that there's no money to like support General State and local government budgets in this plan.

1 (4m 27s):
But there is money for a real estate project that's related to the president's hotel and Is there money to protect people who might get evicted or who might fall behind on rent as a result of this ongoing crisis way most households will get twelve hundred dollars more if you have more than one person in your household, so that will help. I mean there is financial assistance to people the $200 a week of bonus unemployment insurance is quite a bit stingy or that Democrats proposal but is quite a bit more generous than simply doing nothing. The situation we're facing this week. So, you know a it's wrong to say they're not doing anything to help people.

1 (5m 10s):
They're just doing less let's talk about the other plan here. What are the Democrats calling their version as so Democrats acronym is the heroes act health and economic recovery Omnibus emergency Solutions name for Our Heroes whose Provisions are largely based on the four previous bipartisan bills. We have passed. Why do they all have to be acronyms now when did that happen? Happen this is a fascinating story. You know, it wasn't the Patriot Act that did this let us stand for uniting and strengthening America by providing appropriate tools required to intercept and obstruct terrorism know it's sort of predates Patriot Act.

1 (5m 50s):
You know, we didn't do these stunts names on every Bell until quite recently, but now, you know people are working the back channels. They're brainstorming names for these things. It's considered, you know, if they do a new Kind of how a bill becomes a law. There's going to have to be that's like a whole step and process. I think there's no better side of our government largesse, but the amount of time and effort that's being spent on these acronyms. It's great stuff. It's great shopping up particularly good when you can work in a term like Omnibus, which I think doesn't mean anything to normal people but is an important Congressional procedure concept, which is that this bill contains a lot of different Provisions that cut across Different Appropriations fiefdoms.

1 (6m 35s):
So it is an Omnibus Bill and good for now. Okay. Well, let's talk about the Omnibus. What's in the Democrats plan? There's a lot of stuff Chris find so the Democrats one is three trillion dollars. So triple the size triple the size. So it's a lot of money and so they do a lot of stuff how much of that money is dedicated to rebuilding the FBI headquarters in Washington DC. So none of it I think goes to that important purpose, but there's a few big Buckets and the Democrats Bill one is they are extending the $600 week bonus unemployment insurance with no big modifications so that cost a lot of money. It's a lot of help they are doing the $1,200 checks again, except they are changing it.

1 (7m 21s):
So that children will now count as a full person where the entire twelve hundred dollars instead of 500. So this is that pillar then they have you no money for tests money for virus. Research vaccines things like that. They also have a lot of money for States. They really want to avoid state and local government budget crises. And that's a huge conceptual difference with the Republicans. Then there's some money that's specifically earmarked for schools Democrats have since passing this bill. They have sort of raised their asked on the school front and then they have some money for for business loans in there, but I think the most important difference between these bills.

1 (8m 3s):
One trillion versus three trips and that's what's going to make negotiating hard beyond the immense difference in how much each party wants to spend here. There's also sort of an interesting difference in each party's timeline. The Democrats passed their three trillion dollar relief package back in May in the house and Republicans are just presenting their plan this Week With Benefits set to expire on Friday. Yeah, why did Republicans wait so long, this is extremely odd.

1 (8m 47s):
The main thing is there is disagreement in Republican circles as to whether they should do anything. This has been a significant block of Republican members of Congress who say we've spent enough money on this like we're done no more spent and that's most Republicans think but a lot of them then Mitch McConnell has wanted to craft a proposal that he can get all Republicans to support not because a proposal like that will pass because he knows he has to deal with Nancy Pelosi and house Democrats, but he wants to strengthen his hand in negotiations by having a unified caucus behind him and he's been dealing with some very recalcitrant backbench right-wing members who just I haven't wanted to agree to anything and it's really push the timeline to a kind of extreme position.

1 (9m 40s):
They're going to

2 (9m 40s):
have 10 business days to

1 (9m 43s):
figure out a plan because on August 7th. That's when Senate's goes into recess and a

2 (9m 49s):
deal needs to be done.

1 (9m 51s):
All this time. The Republicans have spent is not on working out what's going to happen. It's been fun working out. What's their initial bid in the negotiation? So it's a huge slippage. Ouch, the reason Democrats acted fast is that they were hoping to then spend two months bargaining with Republicans. Republicans have been spending all this time bargaining with themselves. So now we're like at the end of the beginning but still have no clear Road forward toward legislation

2 (10m 22s):
that passes.

1 (10m 32s):
After the break what took Republicans so long and how this might reach a resolution without you know, throwing a bunch of Americans into the streets. I'm Sean Rama's from its today

2 (10m 43s):
explained.

1 (11m 4s):
Support for the show today comes from here. Oh, no not whoever it was who decided like, hey, let's put wheels inside the shoes were talking about hero like your medicine cabinet reinvented hero makes it simple and easy to make sure you or a loved one are getting the right meds at the right time every time with the hero pill dispenser. It's sorts all your daily medication for you and delivers them all with the push of a button and there's a Hero app with which you can That medication schedules get notifications if you miss a dose or if you're running low on pills, you can even share important medical information with your doctor's hero membership includes the Hero app the hero pill dispenser and 24/7 support for just a dollar a day.

1 (11m 47s):
And right now hero is giving today explain listeners a special offer head over to Hero health.com explained and use the offer code explained to get 50% off their Initiation fee plus a 30-day risk-free. A trial that is hero health.com explained and the offer code explained at checkout to get 50% off their Initiation fee plus a 30-day risk-free trap. I remember I used to have a history teacher back at UCLA who said to us that there are times when you could feel the fists of History tightening around you always thought about that.

1 (12m 30s):
She was talking not long after 9/11. But this is another one of those moments. It is a hinge moment in the American Democratic experiment. The entire Globe is being battered by the coronavirus. We're dealing with some of our oldest moons in this country on top of entirely new technologies like it is a crazy time. Mr. Klein host of years of Hangzhou podcast and what we're trying to do right now is understand our time and try to find some the ideas that might help us chart a way out of it the past few months. We've talked to Tom a Seacoast about why the protest made him actually hopeful demariont'e Basu kado about the ways in which economic profession has misunderstood the concept and this measure the concept of value to Elizabeth Warren about her plan to combat the coronavirus trust outfit about whether or not American societies become decadent.

1 (13m 15s):
These have all been great conversations and there are So many more I hope you'll join me every Monday and Thursday to stay informed and maybe we got a sense of hope as well subscribe to this recline show on Apple podcast Spotify or wherever you're listening to this right now.

2 (13m 36s):
Matthew before the break

1 (13m 37s):
we were talking about how Democrats brought a plan to the table back in May the Republicans offered one up on Monday a few days before these unemployment benefits are set to expire. What were the Republicans busy disagreeing about? Well, so done employment benefits has been a source of concern ever since it happened. And the way this worked was originally Democrats wanted to raise the generosity of unemployment insurance benefits. That's so that people would get their sort of full paycheck replaced by the UI system and then it turned out that State labor Department's we're not able to do that on a technical basis.

1 (14m 18s):
It's not how they're set up to work. So Democrats came up with this clutch, which was that they would just enhance benefits by $600 a week. And that meant that on average you would sort of replace a hundred percent of lost wages, but in detail, it doesn't work like that some People are getting more money out of you. I then they were actually earning as wages and other people are getting less. So Lindsey Graham ever since that first became clear has been raising a big stink about this. Our goal is to give you 70% of the money you lost by being unemployed not to give you a pay raise and unemployment. We've got to fix that the argument is what's the incentive to go back to work if the government is giving you more money to stay at home just an incentive argument, and I also just think What we technically call a horizontal Equity argument.

1 (15m 9s):
It's like why should you the laid-off guy be making more money than your cousin who's back at work, you know stocking shelves at the supermarket. So Republicans are really hung up on this and they are very interested in making the program less generous now Democrats keep saying look, like what are the jobs that people are going to get you can look at a million. Decatur's right, whether it's wage levels job openings. There's just no sign that there's a practical problem of unemployed people refusing to take jobs because the UI is so generous and Democrats are saying look this this bonus money.

1 (15m 52s):
It's incredibly well targeted. It's going to people who are using the money to pay the rent make ends meet. It's preventing problems, you know down the road homelessness cascading defaults and then they're spending The money like these are people who you know, you're unemployed, right? So you get money you buy groceries you go out. It keeps the economy going and Democrats are saying look if we pull this rug out from under people, they're not going to have an incentive to do anything. The economy is comatose because of the virus. All we're going to have is people going bankrupt people unable to pay the bills people unable to make the rent and we're going to be at worst in a humanitarian catastrophe at best trying to fix the problem.

1 (16m 36s):
On the back

2 (16m 36s):
end but this isn't just

1 (16m 40s):
Democrats versus Republicans. This is also Republicans versus Republicans. Yeah. I mean there is one set of Republicans who I think can become True Believers on anti-stimulus politics. Like what did Republicans say in 2009 2010 2012 when President Obama kept saying we need to spend more money to keep the economy going Republicans were saying back. Then like no spending money doesn't help the economy. So today one block of Republicans is like ha ha ha, we're Hypocrites. Now that there's a republican in the white house. We do believe in spending money to help the economy.

1 (17m 20s):
But another block of Republicans are True Believers the number Senators at lunch get up and say well well gosh we need we need 20 billion for this. We need a hundred billion for this and they're just really eager to spend my time. Like what are you guys doing and they're saying look we didn't want to do this when Obama was President. We don't want to do it when Trump is President. It's just not good to have the federal government spending money just to be clear here. Is this more about you know, you shouldn't be getting paid more to say at home. Then your cousin who's going to work every day at Whole Foods. And or you shouldn't be getting paid this much money not to do anything because you'll never want to go back to work or is it about we just shouldn't be spending this much money and adding trillions and trillions.

1 (18m 6s):
And trillions of dollars to the deficit. Well, it's about both of those things. Right? Because if you just had this worried about the incentives that was the only thing you cared about you could come up with a workaround, you know, you can say okay, we're going to give less money and unemployment insurance, but we're going to spend trillions of dollars on stimulating the economy through some other but Republicans don't want to do that, right? They want a small Bell. So with a small bill you would say, okay then we have to to Target everything hyper effectively and that means being very generous to the worst off people the Republicans don't like that idea because they think it damages sentence so they're caught between the pressure to keep the overall costs down but also to avoid being too generous to the poorest and they've come out with a bill that's like a little bit neither fish nor fowl and it just reflects those internal caucus Dynamics rather than Say in economic analysis of the situation.

1 (19m 10s):
So who holds the upper hand in this fight is a Democrats. Is it Republicans? So by the Oddball rules of Congress who holds the upper hand depends on what Republicans do next if McConnell can get all his people together behind this and get a majority for it. Then he has a strong hand because Democrats are saying unemployment expiration is so terrible, but it will have already expired. So $200 is better. Zero dollars so really why are Democrats holding off? Why are they stonewalling blah blah blah blah blah blah and supposedly Democrats will be under pressure to come down closer to McConnell's number on the other hand if three or four Republicans break from the party on this because they say we should spend zero dollars.

1 (19m 59s):
Then that weakens McConnell's hand because now house Democrats have passed a bill and Senate Republicans have done nothing and at that point more vulnerable Senate Republicans. It's like Cory Gardner Susan Collins. They need to start saying hey Democrats. Can we work a deal? This is like weird Capitol Hill stuff that it should all hinge on exactly. How nutty does Rand Paul want to be so we're going to have to see like, how much does the GOP caucus come together around this and say like here we stand this is what we're going to do or how much does this kind of effort to duct tape over divisions in the caucus start to break down and change the dynamic again.

1 (20m 39s):
From everything we've covered. It seems deeply unlikely that they'll figure it all out by Friday. What does that mean for I'm guessing what tens of millions of Americans who are depending on these benefits. So one thing they could do is quickly, you know, Wednesday or Thursday put on the floor and unemployment extension for like three or four weeks, right and say, okay. Well we're going to just keep this going in the short term while we keep negotiating. That's a kind of classic. Has moved you know, Kick the Can a little bit down the road rather than resolve issues. Nobody thinks that would be a good idea but it would be the most Humane solution at this point because clearly they're not going to reach an agreement in the next 3 days all told it just feels like the government abdicated its responsibility to handle this pandemic particularly well, and now it feels like the government's on the cusp of abdicating its responsibility to take care of people.

1 (21m 40s):
Who are terrified or can't even go back to work? I wonder if I mean as the rest of the world seems to be inching towards reopening and returning to whatever version of normal they can muster is the United States at risk of really falling behind here as as cases continue to climb States continue to re shut down and the government fights over how to take care of. People who are caught in the balance. It's really embarrassing. I think if you look at the two parties one thing you see here is that actual members of Congress who are Democrats are really into the nuts and bolts of governance.

1 (22m 24s):
They have like a lot of feelings and thoughts about Medicaid matching rates and food stamp funding and state and local Grant programs. And like this is what they actually live for Congressional Republicans really don't they are really jazzed up about like fighting about the 1619 project or talking about whether there's too much violence happening in the Portland protest, you know, like like those kinds of things animate them and people in the media industry often also like to engage with those kind of topics and just like sort of assume that like somebody is governing the country, but when Republicans have the majority Rarity the fact that it took them 10 weeks to bother coming up with this bill.

1 (23m 16s):
It's just a signpost that a lot of their members are not that engaged with this kind of

2 (23m 22s):
thing.

1 (23m 24s):
They weren't like let's drop everything and figure out what we're going to do here. They kept kind of fighting or having vague positions some members work very earnestly on this but a lot of them didn't and unfortunately like millions of People's lives are impacted in a very direct way by the kind of bordering minutiae of how the welfare state operates and it's a big problem that the governing party in the United States is not that interested in this

2 (23m 54s):
question. Okay.

1 (24m 9s):
Matthew thank you so much for your time. I appreciate it. Okay. Thank you.