3 (12s):
When you're going to commute the sentence of your old friend who got convicted of a bunch of felonies after trying to help you get elected. It's best to do it late on a Friday night. That's when President Trump commuted Roger Stone sentence clearly not one of his prouder moments as president or in the words of Republican. Senator Mitt Romney quote unprecedented historic corruption an American president commutes the sentence of a person convicted by a jury of lying. To Shield that very president on today's show. We're going to explain why this commutation matters more than most maybe more than all of them and we're going to start with the story of Roger Stone because it kind of perfectly builds to this moment.

3 (58s):
Here's Vox reporter Andrew Prokop from an episode. We made a while back called the man with the Nixon tattoo. So Roger Stone Roger Jason Stone Roger Jason Stone Junior Roger Jason Stone Junior self-proclaimed dirty trickster Donald Trump's albino. Assassin Roger Stone Roger. Now, you don't mind that I call you his albino assassin do know comrade me Bill. What you have to understand about Roger Stone is that he's more than just an advisor to Donald Trump or a guy who just got indicted by Robert Mueller.

3 (1m 44s):
He's kind of a legendary figure in Republican politics. And in the style of a good origin story for a super villain, it goes all the way back to Watergate Stone was 19 years old in 1972 And he was a huge fan of Richard Nixon volunteering for the Nixon campaign. And that's when he did his he now proudly takes credit for his first dirty trick. There was a Republican Congressman who is challenging Nixon in the primaries.

3 (2m 27s):
So Stone sent this Challenger phony donations that he said were from The Young socialist Alliance. I got enormous mason jar filled it with pennies and nickels and dimes and quarters. I brought it to the McCluskey headquarters. I said, hi. I'm from The Young socialist Alliance. I want to donate this and I need a receipt they were so dumb. They gave me one and then he leaked it to the Press. So it looked like Nixon's Challenger was being funded by NG socialist this came to light during the Congressional investigations into Watergate around 1974. And and that was Stones real first brush with national infamy. He lost his job. He was then working for Senator Bob Dole, but it's hard to keep Roger Stone down and stone has been completely unashamed of his involvement with Nixon and even later in his life.

3 (3m 21s):
Got a And tattoo of Richard Nixon's face on his back and it's real I checked it's real and it's spectacular. You loved Richard Nixon. I think I have a balanced view of him and over the next few years. He he was kind of centrally positioned among various big picture Trends in the development of American politics. Like he co-founded one of the first well-funded outside campaign money. Groups that would just bombard candidates with negative ads this was back in 1975. He backed Ronald Reagan early during his 1976 Presidential Campaign which failed and then the 1980 campaign that he actually one stone was Reagan's political director for the Northeast and his stick at the time was trying to convince working class voters who had traditionally back Democrats to support Reagan instead and then After Reagan one stone decided to cash in he and his friend Paul manafort and various other connected Reagan world people started what became a kind of Infamous lobbying and public relations firm black manafort and stone the argument.

3 (4m 42s):
I gather seems to be that you helped elect them know you're helping to tell them what to do. And this really isn't what the founding fathers had in mind. First of all the term influence shops is really Not accurate at all. I think what we provide for our clients be them foreign countries or corporations or individuals is a superior understanding of how Washington Works black man affordance Stone was was kind of viewed as one of the most ethically questionable lobbying firms in DC. They would have no problem representing really brutal dictators or violent opposition movements alongside their mainstream corporate clients.

3 (5m 23s):
So here's back in 1985 that one magazine profile of Roger Stone called him the state-of-the-art Washington sleaze ball. I Revel in your hatred because if I were an effective, you wouldn't hate me when you're talking about him in the 80s and becoming this, you know, Washington sleaze ball. You don't get a title like that without being I guess in some ways successful. How big a lobbyist does he become with black Mana for? Hearthstone well, so in 1985 a stone was then 32 years old and he was reportedly making four hundred fifty thousand dollars a year adjusted for inflation.

3 (6m 5s):
That would be more than a million dollars today. He kept working with Republicans. He worked on George HW Bush's 1988 campaign worked for Bob Dole and 1996 and his relationship with Donald Trump goes back a really long time goes back to the He's he started advising Trump and stone actually tried to get Trump to run for president in 1988. Wow, so OG Trump supporter. So he's been trying to make this happen for a long time through all this time. Stone was considered a very respectable pillar of the Republican Party establishment in Washington, but there was a little curveball there something changed in 1996.

3 (6m 52s):
That's when he Was advising Bob Dole's presidential campaign and then the National Enquirer revealed that Roger Stone like Nikki. Time to have advertised its the story is on the internet and in some swinger magazines looking for kinky group sex partners, at least he's not cheating on his wife at the time Stone claim. You know, this was a setup. Someone was playing a dirty trick on him, but he would had to resign from the Dole campaign and he eventually acknowledged that the ads really were his and so the Scandal kind of put a Pall over his career.

3 (7m 33s):
For a while at forced him out of basically any high-level mean stream Republican Roll But Stone never really went away entirely. He would just keep popping up at odd moments in politics like in 2000 during the Florida recount battle stone tried to take credit for orchestrating demonstrations that help shut down the recount which is what the Bush campaign wanted to happen at the time. There's also so the downfall of New York Governor Eliot Spitzer Stone had some kind of big Feud with Spitzer and Spitzer was of course eventually resigned after a prostitution Scandal and stone later claimed that he may have helped tip-off investigators about Spitzer's habits because he said he had heard about them.

3 (8m 28s):
So does it take Donald Trump to bring this sort of disgraced sex party have Being a millionaire back into the political fold like mainstream GOP politics. Basically Roger Stone and Donald Trump seemed to be a perfect match when Trump launched his presidential campaign. For real this time in June. 2015. Trump was not very well liked by the Republican Party establishment. So it was not particularly plausible that he would land a top-level republican operative to help advisor run his campaign. Jane So Stone who had been somewhat discredited but also who Trump had had a decades-long relationship with seems like the perfect choice and he did officially join the Trump campaign as an advisor, but he didn't last their long he clashed with other staffers including Corey Lewandowski and announced that he would resign from the Trump campaign in August 2015, but then there are questions about you know, whether he Ever truly left Trump's orbit the indictment from Mueller alleges that Roger Stone maintain regular contact with the Trump campaign throughout the 2016 election.

3 (9m 44s):
There have been reports that he remained in touch with Trump personally. And of course he put together this operation of outside groups to back Trump and was a major supporter of trump in the Press. What's the nature of their friendship wellstone did work for him and became like like a kind of political advisor for him and may have advised his company on some things too. But he was mainly Donald Trump's political Guru for a long time. This is not the Republicans versus the Democrats. This is the elites of the Republican and Democratic party who have driven this country into the ditch versus Donald J Trump and the rest of America.

3 (10m 30s):
We are on the verge of making America great again. Thank you. When you look at photos of Roger Stone from the 80s, he kind of looks like he could be Donald Trump's cousin or something like that. They both kind of have like, you know, the same suits the same hair. They seem to have like the same taste. Is there some sort of like symbiotic thing about their relationship. I think what's clear is that there is a kind of mind-meld between Stone and Trump. It's not clear. How much of this is Stones influence versus just the fact that they happen to think alike, but they seem to have the exact same theory of politics which is to use fear negativity.

3 (11m 21s):
Dirty tricks mobilize your own base. Demonize the other side like this is the Trump Playbook and stone has been using this in in Republican politics for four decades before Trump even got involved. Does Roger Stone have a political ideology? I mean you talked about him being around since Nixon supporting Reagan supporting Bush Donald Trump. It seems like if you're a republican he'll support you but then when you talk about the lobbying he's done. It seems like he'll just sell his services to the highest bidder. What does this guy believe in? I think Roger Stone believes in winning.

3 (12m 2s):
He believes in baking and A name for himself politically his style of politics is very focused on manipulating the media and doing stunts to get attention and and also dirty tricks, which he has proudly embraced that reputation of kind of the seamier side of politics. He told the New Yorker in 2008 politics is not about uniting people. It's about dividing people and getting your 51% He told the Weekly Standard that for him politics is performance art.

3 (12m 48s):
After the break Roger Stone wins the United States loses. I'm Sean Rama's firm. It's today explained. I was watching this movie recently called the sisters brothers. It's kind of a confusing title. It's about these two brothers in the old west who who share the last name sisters and John C. Reilly plays one of them in his character is using what ends up being like one of the first toothbrushes.

3 (13m 29s):
I'm not sure how historically accurate it is, but people are always perplexed by his toothbrush in the movie and I wondered man, what would this character make of the quip electric toothbrush because you know, The clip on like one of the early toothbrushes of course has time Sonic vibrations and 30 second pulses to make sure you're brushing really well and they make one just for kids plus they've got this eco friendly reliable floss that comes with a dispenser that you use for life. And right now you get all that stuff that the quit brush head refills and the toothpaste and the floss refills for just five bucks. Each and shipping is free and if you go to get clipped.com explained right now, you'll get your first refills for free.

3 (14m 10s):
That is your first refill free at get quipped Cam / explains GT Q UI p.com. / explain. Support for the show today comes from NerdWallet smart money podcast. It's a podcast to keep you informed on financial news, but also to just keep you apprised of like the best financial decisions. You can make in your day-to-day. It's hosted by two cats named Liz Weston and Shawn piles. They walk you through the week's financial news and break down all your pressing money questions. Like I don't know.

3 (14m 51s):
Should I buy a House, can I buy a house? What do I do about my student loans right. Now? I kind of think some of these questions they should have like taught us in school all that time, you know, we spent on literature physics American history all-important all well spent time. But but what about explaining what it means to refinance your mortgage or amortization? What does that mean? Why don't we learn about that in? In high school. Anyway, there's a podcast where you can learn those things now. It's called NerdWallet smart money show. You can listen on Apple or Spotify wherever you listen.

3 (15m 39s):
Today explain into Prokop remind us what Roger Stone was ultimately convicted of so Roger Stone was convicted of one count of obstructing an official proceeding five counts of making false statements to Congress and one count of witness tampering all related to a congressional effort to investigate what happened between Russia and the Trump campaign in the 2016. Election and way back in February we talk to you about the sentencing of Rogers Stone in our 500th episode called between the stone and a hard place because the president made that controversial to right?

3 (16m 20s):
Yes. So the Attorney General did it hasn't been proven. So to speak that at Trump ordered what Bill bar did but what happened was that the prosecutors who had handled Stones case submitted one sentencing Ocean and got it approved. And then the justice department pulled it back at attorney general Bill bars request highly unusual move to offer a weaker sentencing recommendation. But what ended up happening there was that the judge in Stones case Judge Amy Berman Jackson sentenced him to 40 months in prison, three years and four months and stone was supposed to report to prison to begin.

3 (17m 6s):
Serving that sentence on Tuesday of this week and then late Friday night. He's told he doesn't have to show exactly so there had been this guessing game and discussion in the media among Trump allies about whether Trump would save Stone from going to prison hardly a surprise, but it's still a new line that Trump has crossed that he has Isn't before he has used his part in power or commutation power in this case in all sorts of politically controversial ways, but he has never gone so far as to Pardon or commute the sentence of a defendant in the Mueller investigation and investigation that was in part into Trump's own conduct.

3 (18m 1s):
And so so we have to remember what the crimes Stone was convicted of. We're actually about they were about trying to cover up the truth of what happened between him and Wikileaks during the 2016 campaign. They were about what he told Trump advisors about Wikileaks has plans to released hacked emails about the Democratic candidates that related to Hillary Clinton during that campaign. And so he was really prosecuted and convicted for trying to cover up for Donald Trump whether it was just to help Trump politically or to cover up some more damaging information that we still don't know was never resolved.

3 (18m 49s):
What justification did President Trump furnished for commuting this sentence for crimes related to his own campaign, you know Witch Hunt collusion, etc. Etc. Trump has you know, try to delegitimize the entire Mueller. Vestigation or anything that touched it or stemmed from it and so he has just portrayed the entire thing as bogus and the White House Press Secretary released a statement that was reportedly crafted by Trump himself that said that Roger Stone is a victim of the Russia hoax that the left and its allies in the media perpetuated for years in an attempt to undermine the Trump presidency.

3 (19m 34s):
There was never any collusion. Ian between the Trump campaign or the Trump Administration with Russia, so Trump is basically saying you could never prove collusion between me and Russia or Roger Stone and Russia, which is true. They never did manage to prove that but whether they did improve that or something like it in part because of the many lies that Roger Stone orchestrated during these investigations. Clear if this was such a Witch Hunt and and such a hoax. Why didn't the president just go ahead and fully pardon Roger Stone because these felony convictions now will still be on his record, right?

3 (20m 19s):
He is a guilty felon for the rest of his life exactly what Trump did by commuting Stone sentence was preventing him from having to report to prison this week. And the reason for that is probably just well, this was a political calculation Trump would like in an Ideal World to probably pardon anyone associated with the Mueller investigation in any way Michael Flynn Paul manafort, maybe not Michael Cohen since their relationship isn't so good these days but you know if there were no political constraints on Trump, he would probably go full pardon. So this is a way to protect Stone to save him from reporting to prison, but but he didn't go All the way because he may think that there would be less backlash politically if he doesn't do a full pardon if he just does a commutation.

3 (21m 14s):
I don't know if that's right because there is a whole lot of backlash from this tell me more. So of course Democrats condemned Trump's Behavior here as a grave affront to the rule of law and question what he was covering up and then there were the comments of Mitt Romney and in addition to Romney senator Pat Toomey. Toomey from Pennsylvania also publicly criticized Trump's move calling it a mistake noting that even attorney general Bill bar called this a righteous prosecution and the sentencing Fair even more interesting than that. Was that former special counsel Robert Mueller broke his silence on all this by writing an op-ed to be published in the Washington Post basically defending his And and saying that I feel compelled to respond both to Broad claims that our investigation was illegitimate and our motives were improper and to specific claims that Roger Stone was a victim of our office.

3 (22m 19s):
The Russia investigation was of Paramount importance Stone was prosecuted and convicted because he committed federal crimes. He remains a convicted felon and rightly. So so a pretty uniform reaction from Democrats and even some Bookends and even otherwise completely out of the spotlight Robert Mueller the president himself didn't pardon Stone he commuted his sentence and he did it late on a Friday right on the cusp of stone reporting to prison. Why do it at all at this point? I mean a pardon or a commutation this ugly and self-serving seems like it would usually come in a lame duck president.

3 (23m 6s):
See and if this is President Trump in July, 20 20, what does it say for what he might do in a second term. That's the issue here. This is politically constrained Trump. This is Trump when he is still facing an election in November, but once that happens the gloves are off either way either Trump has won his second term and he can serve it out. He perhaps may not want to be impeached again. But you know, it's already happened once and he survived so so I don't know whether he would be so worried about that or if you loses he has two and a half months where he's still in office in the lame duck session and he could get up to all sorts of shenanigans with this pardon and clemency power.

3 (24m 2s):
You know, we've seen other presidents use this power to Give clemency to people who either served in their Administration or Close Associates involved in scandals. This isn't exactly unprecedented. But when you combine it with everything else President Trump has been doing to try to co-opt the justice department to make it serve his political interests to make it protect him and his friends to make it go. Go after his enemies that is a trend that will be really scary to watch if you wins a second term.

3 (24m 45s):
Is there a chance he commuted Stone sentence because he wants Stones help in his campaign for a second term. I would think there are a lot of eyes on Roger Stone right now, and he might after having narrowly escaped hard time here. He might not To court that consequence again, but this is Roger Stone we're talking about he is legendary for his political dark arts and Roger Stone somehow manages to turn up and practically every controversial moment in recent political history. So his story may not be over.

3 (25m 36s):
You can find all Andrew Pro cops reporting on Rogers Stones story so far at vox.com.