2 (7s):
Andrew Prokop Vox politics. How is the Democrats impeachment inquiry going?

1 (13s):
Well, it hit a bit of a snag on Tuesday night. When Donald Trump's White House counsel Patsy baloney released a letter saying that Trump would refuse any cooperation with the houses impeachment inquiry. It's an explanation with some legal ease of why the White House says they are in the right to defy most of this probe and they're also accusing the Democrats of using impeachment oversight for 2020 and the circumstances are that the impeachment inquiry has not been going very well for President Trump over the past few days. What really happened is that this kicks off with a former Administration official Kurt Volker agreeing to testify and hand over.

1 (1m 0s):
Documents last week that seems to have gone so bad for Trump that he's decided. He's got to put a stop to this whole thing and it was volcker who handed over these texts, right? Yes. So Kurt Volker he was the US Special representative to Ukraine from 2017 up until a little over a week ago when he resigned amidst this Scandal and he went in to testify to congressional committees last Thursday, but what really made the news from his testimony was a series of text messages that he handed over to the committee's and these text messages completely debunk Trump's line that there was no quid pro quo whatsoever with Ukraine.

1 (1m 55s):
What do they say explicitly. These are texts. He exchanged most of them. With other State Department officials specifically the US ambassador to the European Union Gordon Sandlin and Bill Taylor who's the top us Diplomat in the US Embassy in Ukraine right now on July 25th. He

2 (2m 16s):
writes heard from White House assuming president Z convinces Trump. He will investigate / quote get to the bottom of what happened quote in 2016. We will nail down a date or visit to Washington. Good luck exclamation point

1 (2m 58s):
the Trump officials. Trying to get Ukraine to agree to make a statement confirming two investigations one and tuber yzma. The natural gas company that Hunter Biden sat on the board of and one into whatever happened with Ukraine and 2016 and the Trump officials keep pushing for this. They want a public statement. Where's olinsky confirms that these investigations will go forward and the ukrainians are a little worried about this. They don't want to commit to these two specific investigations. And then in late August the issue of hundreds of millions of dollars in military aid for Ukraine being held up by Trump comes into the picture Bill Taylor the skeptic of the bunch writes a text that

2 (3m 51s):
says are we now saying that security assistance? And white house meeting are conditioned on investigations.

1 (4m 11s):
That's Adlon answers. Call

2 (4m 13s):
me.

1 (4m 16s):
So when you want to avoid creating a clear paper trail by text or email you move the conversation to the phone and this appears to be with sandland did there and then about a week later on September 9th. He does it again. Bill Taylor writes

2 (4m 36s):
as I said on the phone. I think it's crazy to withhold security assistance for help with a political campaign.

1 (4m 60s):
After that there is about a four and a half hour gap until Sandlin answers and when he answers he sounds like a White House talking point by he writes

2 (5m 15s):
fell. I believe you are incorrect about President Trump's intentions. The president has been crystal clear. No quid, pro quos of any kind. The president is trying to evaluate whether Ukraine is truly going to adopt the transparency and reforms that president is olinsky Promised during his campaign. I suggest we stop the back and forth by text.

2 (5m 56s):
If you still have concerns I recommend you give Lisa Kenna or s a call to discuss them directly. Thanks, what's going on? There is Bill tailored trying to get Sandlin to say that we're doing something illegal here

1 (6m 18s):
Bill Taylor seems to be engaging in his own effort to put something in writing because he refers to a conversation on phone. He seems to be very deeply bothered by this effort to or what he seems to believe is an effort to withhold security Aid to Ukraine in exchange for them helping Trump's re-election with investigations. And then once he put it in writing what seems to have happened is that Sandlin said oh and it has now been reported that he called President Trump after that text message was sent to discuss what his response should be and lo and behold it's a response that says, oh there were no quid pro quos which has become Trump's family.

1 (7m 6s):
For a talking point since the Scandal came to light and in fact Trump has touted this specific text as the text that gets him off the hook in the Scandal. He tweeted on Tuesday importantly Ambassador somnolence tweet. He meets text not tweet which few report stated. I believe you are incorrect about President Trump's intentions. The president has been crystal clear. No quid pro quos of any kind that says it all and when I think about this, I think about something in the motor report the molar report described how President Trump at one point ordered on Magan.

1 (7m 49s):
Then the white has canceled to create a phony paper trail a phony record. That would say Trump never tried to fire Robert Mueller. He thought that this phony paper trail would get him off the hook and it would be something he could point to later to say that he did nothing. Wrong and this looks a whole lot like the same basic

2 (8m 11s):
thing reading these texts. It feels like the entire debate about this Scandal is being had in a small scale weigh between Bill Taylor and song Lynn in real time Bill Taylor seems convinced that what the president is doing is dead wrong and sandland is I guess being a White House talking point. But

1 (8m 32s):
so Sandlin is the exact opposite of Taylor. He is a trump guy very much. So he was the CEO of Hotel company and he gave a million dollars to Trump's inauguration through four different secretive shell companies, and he was rewarded for that by being nominated to be the US ambassador to the European Union and since being put in that post he has been going around claiming a Into a great report by The Washington Post that President Trump has empowered him to take over Ukraine policy and Sandlin it has been a bit of a ridiculous figure in Brussels in the embassy.

1 (9m 22s):
He has a wireless buzzer that he presses when he wants his teacup refilled he also Who feels it? I don't know. It's a And I want to say a servant but I'm sure it's like some sort of Embassy staffer its Alfred for Batman. Yeah, without the great sacrifices you've made we wouldn't be here to share this nice pot of tea, but he's worth at least tens of millions of dollars. If not more. He has an art collection. He values at between 5 and 25 million dollars.

1 (10m 2s):
He is a very rich guy who has been deputized by Trump he claims to take on a very large role in Ukraine policy.

2 (10m 11s):
And as I recall Sandlin has been asked to testify before the house intelligence committee.

1 (10m 18s):
He was and he was supposed to show up on Tuesday. He had text messages and documents on personal devices that he was going to give over to the committee and then just after midnight Tuesday Morning the state department. I said no, you're not gonna do this. So what happened? Is that the Trump Administration stepped in at the very last minute to say no don't testify and why do we think that is because cylons too close to all this and it would be incriminating. Well, someone's testimony was going to be very interesting indeed. He was going to be asked under oath about you know, what happened in those in that four and a half hour gap before he crafted the no quid pro quos text message and most importantly he would be asked about whether there was indeed a explicit order from Trump to try and withhold US military aid to Ukraine if they didn't launch the investigations he wanted Sunland reportedly told a republican us Senator.

1 (11m 31s):
Ron Johnson that this was in fact the policy that this is why The aid was being mysteriously held up and Ukraine had to agree to launch these investigations to make Trump happy. This is according to Ron Johnson last Friday. So so the testimony looked like it was going to be ugly for Trump. So the solution they appear to have arrived at is he shouldn't show up at all and they gave no explanation for this at first until finally later in the day Tuesday White House counsel Pat's to Bologna publicly released this letter to house Democrats explaining that they would not cooperate in the impeachment inquiry at all.

1 (12m 23s):
So what does that mean at least right now for the impeachment inquiry? So the Democrats have been looking for two things witness testimony and documents. And this is an announcement essentially that the Trump Administration will not be providing either now the next step after this is that Congress May issue subpoenas Gordon Sandlin for instance has already been subpoenaed after this letter came out the Democrats subpoenaed him. They told him to hand over all his documents and appear for Testimony by next week. And if he doesn't they could try to hold him in contempt, they could file a lawsuit and try to get the courts to step in to force his testimony.

1 (13m 12s):
So this is really just the beginning of a longer legal

2 (13m 16s):
Saga. I mean they have the phone call at this point. They have the texts. They have this pressure campaign from Rudy Giuliani. And these other Trump

1 (13m 29s):
Associated figures do the Democrats have enough at this

2 (13m 33s):
point to just have a vote

1 (13m 36s):
they can vote to impeach whenever they want. It's really just up to the house. And and and I do think Trump's impeachment is highly likely at this point given only what we know right now. But of course, you know, the more damning evidence that gets turned up the stronger their political case might be perhaps there's nothing that could win over Republicans. But this issue of the military aid for Ukraine has really been something that has troubled Republicans. If there was more hard evidence on that that at least theoretically could be the sort of thing that might change some Republican Minds on this

2 (14m 17s):
bill our boy as reclined weighs in on the Republican strategy or lack thereof after a brief but adorable message. Harvey can you help me with something? What word one syllable know what I need you to do the Twitter shout out for the

1 (14m 47s):
show. You have to say follow today explained on

2 (14m 51s):
Twitter at today underscore explained. Okay, follow today explained on Twitter at today underscore explained. Yeah at today underscore explained if you don't know what an underscore is you have difficulties go back to kindergarten. Thank you Harvey. Ezra Klein of the Ezra Klein show welcomed at long last to Ukraine explain arnecia thrilled to be here. I'm wondering if you can help us all understand the Republican strategy in this impeachment inquiry.

2 (15m 31s):
You think there's a republican strategy while the impeachment inquiry there seems to be something going on. There's a great Washington Post piece of came out over the weekend and they said that they'd interviewed dozens of Republicans legislators and AIDS and staffers and influencers and Republicans were trying to survive and not make any sudden moves. The big exception here is Mitt Romney

1 (15m 53s):
Romney had tweeted the president's Brazen and unprecedented appeal to China and to Ukraine to investigate Joe Biden is wrong and

2 (16m 2s):
appalling he's really come out in this case and at least said, these are very serious issues. They deserve to be looked at people should take them. Seriously. That's not going all the way of calling for impeachment. Now if he's going to be the lone voice of conscience, it's not going to be that influential right? But the idea that what Romney does see him I was doing as is creating space for those who might want to come after him like a Susan Collins or Cory Gardner in a world where public opinion continues turning on Donald Trump what Romney is done in being the first could be truly important how have the Republicans reacted to Romney? Is he catching heat for doing this? Well, Donald Trump has called for Mitt Romney to be impeached and you can't impeach a senator. So that's one way of Allah.

2 (16m 43s):
There is not been I would say a concerted reaction to Romney. Romney is saying with a lot of them believe privately but are too afraid to say publicly some of them. Of course do see Romney is a Showboat somebody who is more concerned with his own public reputation. Then Donald Trump and the great things he's doing for the country, but in general I would say that Donald Trump is turned a lot of personal artillery on Romney's tweets and and other statements tompa, Senator Mitt Romney labeling him a fool and worse and he's done. So probably for two reasons one is out of personal anger. He gets very upset when he gets criticized particular by the Republicans, but another Our is that it is a warning to those who may come after Mitt Romney is the senator from Utah. He is safe.

2 (17m 23s):
He will be in that seat until he doesn't want to be in it anymore. But there are a lot of other Republican Senators who would not like a primary challenge a lot of other Republican members of Congress who have to raise money for their coming re-elections. And so what Donald Trump is doing is saying that if you turn on me, I will turn on you and you may or may not take me down but most Republican members of Congress believe Donald Trump can take them down and so very few want to take their chances don't they realize that if enough of them banded together, they would have the power to even convict the president. Yes, but the other note I want to make on this is it what Republican leadership does here is very very important and they don't matter as much in the house where Nancy Pelosi holds a gavel but they do matter in the Senate and Mitch McConnell has cut an ad using

1 (18m 9s):
impeachment to solicit campaign donations. Why not? A patient stops is running Senate majority with me as majority leader.

2 (18m 17s):
The signal coming from the lead Republican in the Senate is we're going to protect Donald Trump at all costs Mitch McConnell recognizes it if Donald Trump goes down like the Hindenburg. It will probably imperil his Senate majority to but nevertheless the signal is not just coming from Trump. It's coming from Senate leadership. Do you mark the difference between criticizing the president and calling for his impeachment and allowing that this phone call was inappropriate because there is a difference between admitting that you did something wrong and also just like telling the country that what they're reading in this so-called transcript isn't that isn't happening. He will not do that. But the the place where I think you can see that is that I think a spot a lot of Republicans going to come to rest is in exactly that middle ground of what the president did was wrong, but not impeachable and Tucker Carlson co-authored an op-ed making this argument which a lot of people saw as a way of charting a path forward for Republicans here.

2 (19m 13s):
The point was not criticizing Donald Trump. The point was saying you can actually let the air out of this. Criticizing him a little bit but it has been really striking to see that polling is moving quite fast on impeachment seen a very sharp uptick in the number of Democrats who support impeachment of very sharp rise in number of Independence, but also in the polls, I've seen a rise in the number of Republicans who support it not by any means to anything near majority but going from almost nothing to like 15% So in a world where Republicans are feeling elected Republicans are feeling some pressure even from base Republicans to criticize this that's a place we might see them come to rest even if the president gets impeached the way so many Republicans have labeled this as a Witch Hunt as a democratic Obsession, it feels damaging not only to our discourse but potentially to our institutions to the power of impeachment.

2 (20m 3s):
I wonder when the bitter resentment between these two parties ends. It doesn't end it will never end like we are in American politics, but what we are potentially permitting here as a overall is horrifying the thing that I can't get out of my head is it this almost worked? It almost worked. It is not hard to imagine that we could have woken up one day to the headlines on the New York Times that Ukraine is opening an investigation into Hunter Biden's activities with the gas giant the idea that the lesson we can take from this and that others would take from it is not to not do the crime because both parties in American politics will consider this out of the boundaries for American politics and punish you but just don't be an idiot about how you do the crime don't like do the call in this way with this many people listening and is genuinely scary that there's a way in which the constant farcical nature of the Trump Administration can actually distract from its genuine villainy and the kind of precedent.

2 (21m 13s):
It is setting for somebody who is similar in their intentions, but more capable in their execution and Yes, it should worry people very very much, but that doesn't make the fight not worth fighting.