3 (0s):
When was the last time you brushed your teeth went to be great. If there were a podcast that just occasionally remind you to do it the quip electric toothbrush would like to brush your teeth for you. It'll do most of the work. All you have to do is go to get quick dot-coms explained where the clip starts at just $25 and your first set of refills doesn't cost anything it's free. Emily vanderwerff critic at large Vox. Do you remember when you just like signed up for cable? Actually, can I tell you a long and stupid personal story because I do we love long and stupid personal story.

3 (41s):
So I grew up in the middle of nowhere. I grew up on a farm outside of town with 750 people in it, which town armor South Dakota AR Mo you are it's named after the hot dogs are fight song in high school was the armor hot. Song and that's the last we're going to talk about it. Okay. Packers are more Packers. What kind of kids love armor peckers fat kids skinny kids kids who climb on rocks tough kids

2 (1m 8s):
just can't even kids with chicken pox. Love -

3 (1m 21s):
I grew up in this town and we to get TV we had one of those old antennas that was sticking way up into the sky. It took many many years for cable. Come out to that part of the country and I do remember when I first got cable because it was my first day of college. So let's go from South Dakota putting out a little antenna to get ABC NBC and CBS to what we're about to have or to what we already have this Deluge of streaming services. What's coming out what's already out? What's about to change the landscape right now is we're sort of on the precipice of what I call the streaming apocalypse.

3 (2m 1s):
We have all of the traditional TV infrastructure. Then you have streaming players Netflix Hulu Amazon, but also like HBO now CBS all access some of these other services that are tied to traditional TV channels. What's happening is we're about to get a bunch more streaming services. Apple TV plus just launched Apple TV plus the destination the highest quality Originals Disney plus is launching on Tuesday, November 12th.

2 (2m 29s):
Phenomenal one-of-a-kind service with content only did they can provide an experience only Disney could create

3 (2m 37s):
next year. HBO. Max is coming in May HBO. Max will begin with about 10,000 hours of content peacock from NBC Universal is coming in April. In addition to the office peacock will be the exclusive streaming home of Parks and Recreation. Cheers Saturday Night Live and Will & Grace among others. It's definitely a situation where everybody is kind of like, Getting their horses in their own stable and then they're paying you access to come and look at the horses. Why is this all happening right now is just Netflix's doing yes, but it's more complicated than that. You've got all of these sort of companies that are realizing the value of their catalog titles because if you look at viewership on Netflix, most viewership on Netflix is still these shows that became popular on traditional television ran for hundreds upon hundreds of episodes and they all are owned by other companies NBC owns the office Warner media owns friends Disney owns Grey's Anatomy.

3 (3m 35s):
CBS owns cheers Fraser some of those shows like all of these shows are owned by other companies and those other companies are like, hey, look at all this money Netflix is making and also if Netflix gets so big that we are reliant on it as our distribution system. We're in essence reliant on it to show other people are programming. That's an existential threat to us. All right. Well, let's talk about what they're doing about that existential threat starting with Apple TV plus which just launched last week. How much does it cost? What is it? It it's $5 a month $4.99 a month. Technically. It's available on like sort of newly purchased Apple devices for a year you get that free. Everybody else has to pay it five dollars a month for you know, the foreseeable future and here's what you get.

3 (4m 20s):
I think eight shows three of which are for kids and then you get like for streaming shows the morning show Dickinson see and For All Mankind, that's what they launched what they have more shows coming and M Night Shyamalan horror show a true crime show. There's even more coming in. 20/20 but you get those shows basically so this isn't like a big HBO back catalog of friends or something like that. This is here's some brand new shows. You've never heard of there's no catalog. They're betting on the idea that all anybody actually wants our Originals. So let's go through these Apple TV + Originals the morning show. What is it other than an opportunity to look at Steve Carell and Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon. It's got Steve Carell Jennifer Aniston Reese Witherspoon. It's literally just about of warning show.

3 (5m 3s):
It's kind of like trying to be about women's struggles in the workplace and then also has me to gone too far and it's kind of trying to hold those two things in concert. She's throwing me under the bus and while I don't know the details of the

2 (5m 15s):
allegations, I understand that they were serious and that keeping Mitch on was not a no, I

3 (5m 21s):
don't think we need to watch any more of this

2 (5m 23s):
lets you ready for your touch that remote.

3 (5m 25s):
It's not a good show. But I also enjoy watching it and I'm going to watch more of it and like I am a white woman in her 30s. I am powerless to quippy dialogue and Settings so take from that what you will and how do you feel about the Jason Momoa show where no one can see? I think it's called see it's bad Dickinson. It's got a premise. Oh hell. Yeah. It's about Teen Emily Dickinson and she's a lesbian but she's also kind of in love with

2 (5m 51s):
death and life is an Endless Sea of pain what is wrong? I got my

3 (6m 1s):
period. It's like super Arch and super campy. E and it starts hailee Steinfeld and John Mulaney shows up as Henry David Thoreau.

2 (6m 9s):
Oh no mother to Henry. It's laundry day. Is it I lose track of time out here in my extreme

3 (6m 18s):
Solitude. I think it's sort of the best show out of this initial lineup, but it's also so specifically pitched at white women in their 30s who were English majors and that's me. So so we can't even trust you on that one. Okay. Yeah exactly. Like I know a lot of people who are just like this is a mess and I'm like Yes, but also For All Mankind, what is that For All Mankind is a speculative fiction show. It's set in a world where the Soviets landed on the moon first and that led to like a Utopia

2 (6m 48s):
ladies and gentlemen, this is a live signal from the Moon. We'll get a translation of his words Man's first words from the Moon just a minute.

3 (7m 4s):
It's a really like interesting showing concept and an execution is kind of a little I'm waggling my hand back and forth. Like I enjoyed watching it. I've seen eight out of ten episodes, but especially once it gets to a point, where as my good friend Katherine veterinarian dunk of vulture described it A League of Their Own in space. Wow, then I was into it. Okay, so you have to $4.99 to be specific for Apple TV Plus in which you get no back catalog. What do you have to pay for Disney plus from which you get Disney Disney plus is going to be $6.99 a month.

3 (7m 47s):
If you do it in a bundle with Hulu, which is the Hulu that includes ads and ESPN plus which is not actually like ESPN but has a lot of live sporting events Sports sets $12.99 a month to me. That's a pretty big deal for a lot of families. What's in the pretty big deal Disney plus has this massive catalog of titles including Star Wars movies Marvel movies Pixar movies things like that Disney plus will eventually have the entire Disney catalog and by the Disney catalog. We include 20th Century

2 (8m 17s):
Fox himself. Yes,

3 (8m 21s):
every episode of The Simpsons will be available day one on Disney plus which for me It's like the single biggest selling point and in addition to all of that. They're going to make new shows. There are making new shows. Their biggest show is the Mandalorian which is Star Wars spin-off that nobody has seen because they haven't sent it to critics often a bad sign not always a bad sign they claim they're trying to protect some spoilery events that happen in the premiere because we can't be trusted not to spoil it. But come on guys. Plus there's a new lady in the Tramp on Disney plus it's lady in the Tramp. They made it with dogs and they made the docks talk. It's weird. Can't wait to see. Uh, someone's kids watching it and be totally transfixed. All of these shows are unobjectionable. They are just like you're going to set your kids in front of him.

3 (9m 3s):
Your kids are going to be like I kind of like that. You're going to be like I kind of like you son and then like that's it. Happy Disney. Happy Disney. Happy HBO. What is HBO Max? And how much does it cost? HBO Max is going to have a large portion of the Warner Brothers catalog their $14.99 a month, which is going to be pricier than everybody. The can kind of get away with it because they are banking on that HBO brand name. They are essentially just turning HBO now into this new service and adding a whole bunch of stuff to it. It's going to have a lot of the Warner Brothers catalog including again friends and then it's going to have a bunch of like older movies to me.

3 (9m 49s):
This is interesting because they are getting Turner Classic Movies which is within the Warner media family to do a curated list of classic movies from the Warner Brothers archive which includes a lot of other Studios that like Ted Turner bought up in the 80s to me as a big classic movie fan that's appealing but also like we don't Know what it's going to look like. We haven't seen anything from HBO Max because it's going to be the last one to launch of these big players in May 2020, but they are really making a play for the connoisseur. Okay. So those are the big ones Apple TV + Disney + HB, o-- Max, but there are another few coming out. Let's not forget peacock peacock. Peacock is coming in April and peacocks going to have the office.

3 (10m 30s):
It's going to have Parks and Rec. It's going to have a bunch of these classic NBC sitcoms along with some original programming the big thing that it sounds like is it sounds like peacock is going to be free to everybody going to be free with ads now people don't like watching ads but free fries a big deal free is my favorite. That being said, there is no way I'll have time for all this stuff is this Netflix is apparently testing a feature that will allow people to watch it one and a half speed. Do we go straight from Peak TV to way too much TV. Yeah, but also like I don't see a way to sort of reverse this process short of a catastrophic like bubble pop, you know, the funny thing about 1.5 speed my colleague Constance Grady said this and I'm stealing from her, but it's so brilliant it's too Turning all of your leisure time into like optimization time into time when you're like, oh, yeah.

3 (11m 31s):
I have to make sure to cram as much entertainment in as possible to be the most efficient human being I can be because that is how capitalism works so you and constants are basically saying that this is turning what we do for fun in to work. Yeah, but like this whole optimization culture was created because Netflix creates baggy television shows because if you want to watch on Netflix show like they want to keep as much of your attention as possible. That means you watch more. So now they're like, well, what if we found a way to artificially take those extra 30 minutes out by running its light faster. So like It's just not artistically viable and is bad for the future of my favorite Medium television, and I'm just like I hope it doesn't happen.

3 (12m 13s):
I know it's gonna happen. Before Emily's favorite medium suffers a sad artistic death who will win the streaming Wars. I'm Sean Rama's Forum. That is after a quick break on today explains. Here's the fun thing about the neighborhood. I live in sometimes but not always your mail just disappears. I've never personally seen who takes it.

3 (12m 55s):
But I did almost one time see the person who brought the package back because they didn't particularly like what was in it with the quip electric toothbrush people will know that you've been delivered a quip electric toothbrush. It says quip and even has like little cartoon toothbrushes on the packaging so chances are if they're not interested in Toothbrush, they're not going to take that initial delivery and after that the refills, you know who wants refills for a brush. They don't have I guess one thing you might have to worry about is whether they have a quip electric toothbrush already and maybe want to snag your refills but chances are if they do that they've already gotten their first set of refills for free which you can do for yourself and get quip.com explained and after that it's just five dollars for refills or $10 if you want them to send the toothpaste to they might already be locked in and not snagging other people's package.

3 (13m 45s):
Ages and you can just have your refills to yourself. What a dream. Today

2 (14m 3s):
today is not

3 (14m 5s):
explained our Emily. So we have all these new streaming services as well as a bunch of old ones Netflix HBO Hulu Amazon peacock. Apple Disney counter table chair, whatever who's gonna win these streaming Wars? I don't know. I think that a lot of people assume Netflix will be number one forever because Netflix is number one right now, but I think about a lot like you remember, dr. In the Marvel film Infinity War. Do I strange we are

2 (14m 35s):
right at the end of that movie. He's kind of going through all of the scenarios. Hey, what was

3 (14m 43s):
that? Look forward in time to see all the possible outcomes of the coming conflict.

2 (14m 50s):
How many did you see 14 million

3 (14m 53s):
605 and he like plucks out the one where the Avengers win how many

2 (14m 57s):
ruin? one That's

3 (15m 3s):
kind of what's happening in Netflix right now the number of scenarios they have in which they could win keeps getting a little bit smaller with every year because they have all of these outside pressures what you think Netflix could actually lose in all of this. Yeah. In a post net neutrality World your internet service provider can charge you more money to watch Netflix. HBO. Max is connected to an internet service provider. It's connected to the AT&T companies U-verse and DirecTV in a post net neutrality world. You maybe won't have to pay extra to watch HBO max if you're an AT&T subscriber that gives HBO Max a leg up over Netflix. This is a kind of part of the reason.

3 (15m 43s):
I'm bullish on peacock because peacock is connected to Comcast which is you know, one of the largest Cable companies in the world and in a post net neutrality world who wins is a question less about who has the best content or who has the best interface or anything like that? It is so much more a question of what you can watch and like what part of the country you live in. So that's a big strike against Netflix because without net neutrality the platform is connected to cable and internet providers will have a head start. They'll do better. Is there a strike to can we stick with the baseball analogy strike to against them is now they've lost the office.

3 (16m 25s):
They've lost friends. So like the Casual subscribers there. Like I'm actually going to subscribe to this instead because it has what I like so they lose a bunch of the subscribers. Okay strike to is they're losing their biggest shows Dare I ask sitting here in District of Champions, home of the Washington Nationals for a strike three. The third thing is they're in tremendous amounts of debt at a certain point that debt comes calling and like they have to find a way to make up that debt. They start charging more for subscriptions which drives more people away which makes them have to charge more for subscriptions which strives more people away and they are also paying a premium on top of what they're paying for Netflix to like their ISP to be able to watch Netflix. Like probably all of these things won't happen. Probably it'll be you know, one or two of them.

3 (17m 6s):
But like if all of them happened in that Flicks gets caught in a spiral where it becomes more and more expensive and people are like I have other options now, I'm going to watch one of those and at that point, you know, Netflix starts to look pretty reasonable is something that like an apple might acquire and like I don't think this will actually happen but that it is not out of the realm of possibilities not a thing. I would have said even two years ago, but wait at the end of Avengers endgame the Thanos is all

2 (17m 33s):
inevitable. And Iron Man is Hi. Iron Man

3 (17m 46s):
even if it was a long shot The Avengers did win in the end. So sticking with your analogy here where the Avengers are Netflix. Is there a possible future where Netflix can win? Oh sure Netflix could absolutely win. Like there is a scenario in which they have become so synonymous with streaming where like people are like we're going to just Netflix something tonight like where that becomes so synonymous in the way that Google has become synonymous with search. That like they just can't be defeated. One of the other Solutions is like Netflix is big enough. Maybe they buy some studios catalog. You've got the Sony Pictures catalog and the Paramount catalog are both sort of dangling out there for anybody who might want to buy them because both of those companies are kind of financially struggling.

3 (18m 31s):
So like maybe Netflix buys that maybe that's their solution to the content problem because again, I don't think they're going anywhere but I do think that they're kind of stuck in this place where like they have to like navigate a bunch of Double Futures and many of them end catastrophically Emily the last time we had you on the show. It was to talk about the end of Game of Thrones and the death of our monoculture That Game of Thrones could have potentially been sort of the last show that we all kind of sat around and watch no matter who we were where we were and I wonder when we talk about all of these different services and how people will pick and choose from them. How will that affect our monoculture or or further kill it or Affect our culture as a whole.

3 (19m 15s):
Yeah, I'm worried about this pop culture is one of the things that unites us As Americans and like a lot of our pop culture is bad. But like the fact that a whole bunch of people watch The Masked Singer every week or that everybody watched The Game of Thrones finale. I love that aspect of our pop culture and I really worry about it going away and like people have treated it as an inevitability for a long time and I never have because there's always something there's always something that comes along. Whether it's the Marvel movies, whether it's you know, Taylor Swift whether it's Beyonce or a fantasy show about dragons. Yeah, there are always these things that cross over and hit big and like I worry about a world in which that doesn't happen.

3 (19m 60s):
I worry about a world in which like the things that become the monoculture are actually like very small and very specific to certain Niche cultures. And I worry that that further stratify Society. I don't see an easy way out of that one either and if I think about it at the same time, the natural default state of humanity is having several small Regional cultures that don't add up to a monoculture but like that are sort of in conversation with each other and maybe we're just getting back to that. Maybe the Century when we had this monoculture was a blip and maybe we're returning to our Natural State and like maybe I should just be okay with it.

3 (20m 41s):
Emily vanderwerff writes about TV for vocs and if you want to know even more about the business Behind These streaming services, maybe even hear from some of the CEOs themselves check out the recode media podcast with our colleague Peter Kafka. There's an episode out right now called it's not HBO. It's HBO Max that will get you

2 (21m 2s):
started.

3 (22m 47s):
That's it for the show this week, except if you live in Toronto Canada or somewhere nearby come out to our first ever live show. I will most certainly be brushing my teeth before taking the stage because I want my whites to be pearly for the live audience and I want my breath to be agreeable for the live guests. If you want your breath to be agreeable and your teeth to be pearly white check out the clip electric toothbrush. It's at get quipped Cam explained and it's Arts at just $25. Your first set of refills is free. See you soon, Canada.