0 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from the financial times, but their friends just call them F T the UN climate change conference is in Glasgow. Through November 12th, it's called the cop 26. Their lofty goal is to unite the world to tackle climate change, to facilitate the broader conversation. Ft com will make all of their content free to read on November 3rd. That includes their extensive climate coverage and ongoing analysis of cop 26. Visit F t.com on November 3rd, to read all their content for free.

1 (36s):
Nice try his back for a second season. And this time asking how much self improvement can we expect to buy in a box I'm Avery Truffleman and from mattresses to be days to crockpots join us. As we explore the history science and cultural impact behind the lifestyle technology that surrounds us for decades, Americans have constantly been sold new versions of the same products that have been around a long time. And nice try is a podcast about humanity's attempts at perfection. Listen to nice try on apple, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (1m 25s):
It was two years ago that we last talked about Sudan on the shift at that point months of civil disobedience and protests led to the military ousting, the country dictator of nearly 30 years, Omar al-Bashir.

3 (1m 42s):
I declare being the minister of defense, the chairman of the committee to get rid of this regime and to arrest the head of the regime in a safe place.

0 (2m 3s):
The military took over, but with the promise of future civilian rule, they even included civilians in the process, But the Sudanese people were hesitant to trust the military because these are some of the same people would spill blood in the streets. During those protests. Two years ago, The June 3rd massacre in which the military tortured raped and ultimately killed more than a hundred peaceful protestors

5 (2m 37s):
Civilians were shot at close range by men in uniform

6 (2m 44s):
Command of Hamad ham. Dan known as <inaudible>, who is the leader of the rapid support forces, a paramilitary force that has its origin in the ginger wheat who committed mass atrocities in the west of the country. And therefore

5 (2m 58s):
The BBC has spoken to men who saved their serving RSF officers and admits to having participated in the,

6 (3m 6s):
Then you also had the former inspector general. Now head of the Sydney's armed forces general <inaudible> you had what we call in Arabic, the shadow brigades, which are a scary as they sound essentially kind of black ops operatives as part of the intelligence services.

0 (3m 23s):
This is NEMA I'll bug her. She's a senior international correspondent for CNN,

6 (3m 28s):
Just this cabal of armed forces who didn't want the country to transition past a point of that ability to continue to benefit and make money and rule. And then last,

0 (3m 41s):
This week, just as the military was slated to begin the transition to civilian control, they confirmed, they weren't to be trusted.

7 (3m 52s):
We dissolve the sovereign council and the cabinet, and we put an end to the mass jobs and undersecretaries, and the state governors will revise everything.

6 (4m 0s):
They rounded up the prime minister and his wife, many of the senior aides in the prime minister's cabinet. A lot of the key civilian leadership, many of whom we believe have been tortured and detained, and a lot of people are still missing.

0 (4m 18s):
How does the public respond to this coup

6 (4m 21s):
The public had already taken to the streets before days before that. So firing a warning shot that basically we will not accept Sudan will not accept military rulers. Again, I think it's, it's important to remember that Sudan has really only had very brief periods of democracy since independence. I'm from Sudan. I was talking to my mother about it, and she remembers being 14 and in high school and had a dorm going out on her first anti military rule demonstration. And she was 14. And it's extraordinary that she's now in her seventies. And, and this is the third attempt or fourth attempt in her lifetime to gain basic freedoms.

6 (5m 3s):
And what I think what's what makes this even more incredible is that most of the generation that are leading these demonstrations that are so absolutely unrelenting in, in their belief that they will never again be ruled by the military are the children of al-Bashir they're the children of this dictatorship. They have never known democracy. I mean, I'm 43 years old. And I remember a brief three years of democracy from when I was about seven till 11 or 12, three years of democracy. So this is a generation that has no concept of democracy. And yet they're the ones out on the streets risking their lives for it.

0 (5m 46s):
What's life like in Sudan

6 (5m 48s):
Right now, life is Sudan has been incredibly difficult for months. Now. The, the, the economy has been in, in, in, in a fall collapse. There had been when we were there in August, we could really see that there had been an increased presence of soldiers and military personnel on the streets. It's been very, very tense for a while now, friends and family that I've been speaking to back home and our team on the ground that say that it is that, but so much worse. Now people are really concerned about their ability to, to bring in the daily necessities to their homes. You know, people were queuing for hours for fuel, but that sense of volatility that at any moment, anything could happen because of the huge presence of armed forces on the street.

6 (6m 38s):
Just this sense of volatility and vulnerability. I think other than people who've grown up under an occupation. I think those of us who grew up under dictatorship have an experience of that sense of humiliation, where anytime you walk out on the street, you are incredibly vulnerable to the whims of a man in uniform. And for a while that during this transitional period that had gone away. And now those that we're speaking to on the ground say that that sense of second and third class citizenship in your own country, that if somebody took a gun to your head and, and fired, there would be no consequences.

6 (7m 19s):
That feeling has returned

0 (7m 26s):
But all the same people are in the streets. How's the military responding.

6 (7m 32s):
The soldiers clearly think that by their standards, they have been quite restrained. I don't know if you would call hundreds of people injured and you know, a dozen or so killed just it over the weekend, over one day's demonstration on Saturday restrained, but they believe that by their standards, they have been restrained. And I think what's been quite disappointing for a lot of Sudanese watching from home is to hear the UN or the U S say that well, you know, we were watching where we're happy to see that there was some form of restraint. And I think that's the big that's going to be. The real crunch is that the us wants to force through a mediation.

6 (8m 13s):
And they believe that the, you know, the least violent, the least destabilizing way to force through a resolution is to allow for some semblance of military presence in whatever infrastructure of rule is agreed upon. And that's just not acceptable to the Sudanese out on the streets. Now it may be acceptable in the future. They may decide ultimately, after however long this impasse lasts for that, they may accept some kind of version of that. But for right now, it's not, it's not acceptable. And the only, the only barometer that matters is the barometer of the streets.

0 (9m 1s):
Weirdly the military still says, it's going to hold elections in the next few years. Its goal is still supposedly civilian control, which seems like a funny way to go about it, right? Resting control from civilians to give it back to civilians. Why CU when you don't have to,

6 (9m 19s):
Because if the civilian leadership had been able to finally finish this investigation into the June 3rd massacre, their rule would have been untenable. How do you as the United States or the European union or the UK, how do you deal with them as political candidates? Most of those in positions of leadership, possibly not general, a little behind he's a, he's a career soldier, but definitely commander Hemet D thinks of himself as a potential president or prime minister for Sudan. However, it turns out. So how do you then switch out of your uniform to become a civilian politician? If there is credible information that you opened fire on civilians on June 3rd, I think that's their biggest fear is that they weren't going to get any immunity.

6 (10m 7s):
And because the civilian government, the sovereign council voted to agree to allow president I'm going to be shared to be transferred to the Hague for the genocide charge against him, which would have been unthinkable even five years ago. All of these soldiers are thinking, well, I know what I did. So without immunity, I'm incredibly vulnerable. And they knew that before the civilian leadership took over, that was their last little chance to try and negotiate for immunity. The people of Sudan have decided that they are willing to die for democracy on a more pragmatic note.

6 (10m 52s):
The us has for the last four years under the Trump administration seen its influence wane globally because of its isolationism and president Biden promised not only that human rights are back in the U S foreign policy, but also that the U S would be extending itself to, to, to reassert its influence. The generals in Sudan, lied to the U S Envoy and told him they had no intention of carrying out a coupe. If they get away with that, that sends a message to everyone else around the world that you can do what you want. And America will not stand by the side of, of the people on the streets

0 (12m 3s):
Support for the Saturday comes from the Praxis. And if that sounds depressing, I think that's kind of the point of Praxis is a unique therapy option to help you with your depression. If you've got any, it uses cognitive behavioral therapy and smart technology to develop strategies that are personalized for you to help you create meaningful progress with your depression. Just go to us.depresses.com. That's us dot D E P R E X I s.com. For more information, the Praxis is a web application for the adjunctive treatment of chronic or recurrent depression or depressive disorder for patients. 18 years of age or older depression is not a healthcare provider and does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or stand-alone treatment.

0 (12m 48s):
If you need immediate medical attention, please contact your healthcare provider or go to the closest emergency room.

1 (13m 2s):
Nice. Try his back for a second season. And this time asking how much self-improvement can we expect to buy in a box I'm Avery Truffleman and from mattresses to be days to crockpots join us. As we explore the history science and cultural impact behind the lifestyle technology that surrounds us, we are

9 (13m 22s):
Doing something to be slow and deliberate about. We need to do more than one

1 (13m 26s):
At the same time for decades, Americans have constantly been sold new versions of the same products that have been around a long time, sometimes centuries and nice try is a podcast about humanity's attempts at perfection. Listen to nice try on apple, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (14m 3s):
The thing about the military coup and Sudan. It's actually far from the only one to happen this year in Africa.

10 (14m 9s):
No, unfortunately we're seeing, we might call it democratic regression or a series of military coups take place across the region.

0 (14m 17s):
Aldean young is a UCLA historian and the author of transforming Sudan. He says there's at least a half dozen other countries in the region whose democracies are backsliding.

10 (14m 31s):
We just saw Chad had a military transition,

11 (14m 35s):
Rebels are threatening to advance on Chad's capital. And the military has taken over the government following the death of president

10 (14m 41s):
<inaudible>. And this was co-signed in a really strange way by president Macron of France and the United States didn't make much objection. And we've seen military takeovers and Niger

13 (14m 53s):
Overnight and attempt to overthrow the government was thoughted.

10 (14m 58s):
And in Mali

12 (14m 60s):
Dressed in full military regalia, the man who led Molly second coup in nine months is officially sworn in as president

10 (15m 7s):
And a cooling Guinea.

14 (15m 9s):
The mobile phone video, the 83 year old president appears disheveled. He's being detained by the country's special forces. Men meant to protect him now, hold him in class

10 (15m 20s):
And then Ethiopia, which for a long time was one of the bright spots in the horn of Africa. We've seen a brutal civil war and we've seen authoritarian consolidation under the Nobel prize winner. I'll be augment

15 (15m 34s):
Any opposition. Parties are also boycotting the election because leading members have been jailed. They accused the government of rolling back. Many of IBF men's initial reforms.

10 (15m 43s):
We've also seen a non-democratic transition in Tunisia.

16 (15m 48s):
My first decision is the freezing of the functions of parliament.

0 (15m 60s):
Are there sort of parallels to draw here? Are there common threads or are all these situations sort of particular to each individual country?

10 (16m 8s):
Yeah, I mean, there's always differences in each country, some local characteristics, but all of these countries suffer from dominant military structures, military insecurity, apparatuses that have been supported by the United States and other countries. And the fight against terrorism then United States has given tons of military aid to the Ethiopian armed forces in order to fight Al-Shabaab in Somalia. Similarly in Niger and Mali, we've seen international efforts from France and the United States to combat Al-Qaeda and the mug grip. And there's been a huge investment in the military, in both of those countries. And similarly in Chad, Francis played a huge role in arming the today in army to fight against terrorism and the Sahil, the fight against migrants.

0 (16m 55s):
So the through line is that in the name of counter-terrorism or keeping migrants at a Europe, Western countries have, have propped up military leadership at the expense of democracy.

10 (17m 6s):
Yeah. I mean, one of the problems is that while the United States in particular advocates, democracy often with its civilian programs, at the same time, it's using its military and intelligence programs to prop up the armed wing of many of these regimes. And so it's often at war with itself and is two impulses and counter-terrorism for years anti-immigrant policies from the Europeans have often Trump their desires for democratization.

0 (17m 33s):
And tell me more how this is affecting what we're seeing in Sudan right now.

10 (17m 38s):
That is a really interesting case because the United States has never really been that close to the Sudanese armed forces, but at the same time, the Gulf allies, particularly the United States allies in the region, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates have given tons of aid to the military in Sudan, and they've been opposed to democratization throughout the region. And we saw them do similar things perhaps in Egypt in 2013, with the rise of, of the Sisi regime and supporting a return to our authoritarian rule,

18 (18m 10s):
Fireworks and jubilation erupted in Tucker square. Tonight, as the military announced, it dissolved Egypt constitution and deposed president Mohammed Morsi after just one year in office

10 (18m 21s):
And the United States and in Sudan has had a similar issue where it's wanting to have stability in the region and it's wanting to increase, you know, maybe military cooperation. Some people have even said that the us can normalize its relations with the military. We've seen the visits from high ranking military officers, and we've also seen the military play a vital role, particularly under the Trump administration and helping to execute us foreign policy goals like the normalization with Israel. And so the United States has found it often comfortable to talk to military leaders, even military leaders that they don't like because they're centralized. We can do a military to military communication.

10 (19m 2s):
The United States has been one of the biggest backers of the civilian transition in Sudan that took place in 2019, but we haven't supported the civilians in quite the same way. Hmm.

0 (19m 12s):
So what does that mean for this militaries chance of holding onto power?

10 (19m 17s):
The Sudanese military finds itself in maybe a tougher position than some of the militaries in the region and the sense that, you know, it's kind of internationally isolated. It doesn't seem like there was really strong international support for this CU, the United States has come out against it. The European unions come out against the China's come out against it. But at the end of the day, the military does have a strong chance of surviving because the military and Sudan has actually entered into an Alliance with many of the larger rebel movements that it used to fight. And as long civil war has, the RSF is one of its militias that also has SLA another Garth Florian militia, and it has the justice and equality movement and other military from Darfur supporting it.

10 (20m 1s):
And unfortunately this seems to be accrued that was driven in large part by the senior officer core inside the military, who've come together in a kind of a consensus that maybe they didn't have in 2019 when they overthrew a president O'Mara Bashir.

0 (20m 17s):
So how are countries like the United States going to counter, you know, the military seemingly strong position in Sudan?

10 (20m 24s):
You know, we've seen Biden, we've seen Blinken, we've seen Feltman the special invoice for the greater horn of Africa calling for a return to transitional arrangement,

19 (20m 34s):
General Bajan and the army. They betrayed the spirit of the 2019 revolution and they, they be trained the letter and the spirit of that, of that constitutional document. This was supposed to be a military civilian partnership. The

10 (20m 48s):
Question though is whether or not the United States is willing to do anything besides cutting off some financial support to the country, maybe blocking some of the forgiveness of debt, will it do anything long-term to short of tip the balance in the favor of the civilians? It didn't do very much in 2013 when Sisi came to power, it hasn't done that much about the Ethiopian civil war. It didn't do anything about Chad Mali or Nigeria. So the U S credibility I think is it's not at the highest point. Vis-a-vis the military generals in Khartoum.

0 (21m 21s):
And when we talk about doing more, what are we talking about? Are we talking about military intervention?

10 (21m 27s):
No, I don't think military intervention is on the table. There's a question of whether or not there could be more sanctioned, whether or not we could pressure, particularly our allies in the Gulf states to cut off funds to the military. I think that would be one of the biggest things that the United States could do. Pressure. The Gulf states like Saudi Arabia, Katar, UAE, Turkey, and Egypt also, you know, reduced ties with the Sudanese regime and maybe freeze the bank accounts of military leaders.

0 (21m 56s):
Well, one of those countries want Qatar, UAE, Saudi Arabia, et cetera.

10 (22m 2s):
So this is a big question. I mean, for a while, for the last few years, we've seen Qatar and UAE, particularly in a kind of a competition for influence throughout the region, but we've seen UAE like Russia also investing a lot in the red sea ports, along the coast of Sudan and trying to develop those ports. But more importantly, they want stability and they have been opposed and kind of a broad way to democratic movements throughout the greater middle east, particularly after the Arab spring of 2011. And so in many ways they've supported either a restore herniation of monarchies or a restoration of military rule in countries throughout the region.

0 (22m 48s):
If Sudan can somehow revive its democracy. Do you think that could be a bright light for these other countries we've mentioned that are backsliding right now, Ethiopia, Chad Tunisia.

10 (23m 3s):
I think it would be a huge, bright light for the rest of the region. Right? I think one of the scariest scenarios would be if Sudan falls back into either a military dictatorship or even worth possibly civil war on the other hand, Sudan can be a role model for the rest of the region and thinking of ways in which post-colonial armed forces, which have largely existed outside of civilian control. And in some ways I've seen themselves as constitutive of the state. If we can figure out how in Sudan to create civilian institutions that can control the military and security apparatus, I think that would be a model for figuring out how to do something similar in places like Chad and Egypt.

10 (23m 44s):
And in Ethiopia,

0 (23m 58s):
Alden young teaches in the department of African American studies at the university of California in Los Angeles. He's the author of transforming Sudan, decolonization economic development and state formation. I'm Sean Ramez from our show today was produced by Halima Shaw it's today explained

1 (24m 52s):
Nice, try his back for a second season. And this time asking how much self-improvement can we expect to buy in a box I'm Avery Truffleman and from mattresses to be days to crockpots join us. As we explore the history of science and cultural impact behind the lifestyle technology that surrounds us

9 (25m 12s):
Doing something to be slow and deliberate about. We need to do more than one.

1 (25m 16s):
I think at the same time for decades, Americans have constantly been sold new versions of the same products that have been around a long time, sometimes centuries and nice try is a podcast about humanity's attempts at perfection. Listen to nice try on apple, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts.

20 (25m 45s):
Hi, it's me, Jesse David Fox host of good one, a podcast about jokes. And I am happy. No thrilled to tell you that vulture festival is back nine being really back this time, we're doing it fully live and in-person and outside of the Hollywood Roosevelt in beautiful Los Angeles, California on November 30th and 14, no faces and little boxes and no awkward silences after people tell jokes, unless they're bad jokes, just all of us together in real life. Having a fun time this year, we have the cast of third rock from the sun where uniting and Henry wasn't going to be teaching an acting class. I will be talking to Sarah Silverman and Seth Rogan about comedy friendship and the holidays. And yes, we'll be requiring vaccines, just like the met gala.

20 (26m 26s):
So in a way, this is just like the met gala, except you can dress more comfortably and ISA Ray will be there. Wait, that was a piece of writing this year as NextGen. Anyway, get your tickets before they sell out@vulturefestival.com.