0 (1s):
A New York man has some beef with Taco Bell. He

1 (3s):
Filed a lawsuit against the fast food chain accusing it of false advertising

2 (7s):
Claims.

3 (8s):
New York Man is Suing Taco Bell for $5 million. He claims the ads make it look like the menu items are more full of meat and veggies than they actually are.

4 (19s):
The bigger

5 (20s):
Beefier triple double crunch wrap.

3 (23s):
Now, the same law firm filed a suit in Florida last year against Burger King alleging the company's ads make the burgers look bigger than they really are. Starting in 2020, we saw a spike in these types of lawsuits, and late last year, we reached a man who filed many of them. They call him the vanilla vigilante.

6 (42s):
Yeah, I would say I'm wired A little bit different

3 (44s):
Coming up on today explained we will ask this man Spencer Sheehan, what motivates his possibly absurd quest, and we dig into what consumers, you mean New York man, actually get out of it.

Land Of The Giants (59s):
I am gonna take a quick moment to tell you about another show that you may know, but in Case you Don't, land of the Giants is a podcast from The Verge and the Vox Media podcast network that looks at the big tech companies reshaping our world and their new season that Tesla shockwave. They're telling the story of the company that finally made an electric car people actually wanted to drive. It's a deep dive into the company's controversial origins, their internal battles and their broken promises. And there's so much more to the story of Tesla than just Elon Musk. In case you thought this was just an Elon Musk podcast, you can find land of the Giants, the Tesla shockwave, wherever you listen to podcasts. New episodes are out every Wednesday.

2 (1m 42s):
Hollywood writers and actors are still striking and one of the things they're fighting against is AI swooping in and taking their jobs. But truth is AI is already all over Hollywood.

8 (1m 55s):
You know, Harrison Ford has come out and said that he not only is okay with the de aging process that was used in the most recent Indiana Jones, but he thought it was skillfully done.

Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast (2m 7s):
The fight over AI in TV and film. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast, It's today explained.

3 (2m 25s):
I'm Noel King. Spencer Sheehan is a lawyer based in New York, and I talked to him last December. Spencer specializes in consumer protection cases. What is he protecting consumers from? A thing that might seem minor to you and to me, but to him it's a big deal. Misleading food and beverage labels.

6 (2m 45s):
One of the cases that I like the best is against a and w, which is the company that produces Root beer and cream soda, the staple beverage of every, you know, elementary school birthday party.

9 (2m 57s):
For 50 years, people have been coming to to a and w Drive-ins for our rich natural tasting, old fashioned Root

6 (3m 4s):
Beer. And for many years, a and w and on the Root beer and cream soda advertised it as made with aged vanilla

10 (3m 11s):
A and w Root beer is crafted with premium ingredients like aged vanilla for a straight from the barrel taste.

6 (3m 20s):
And in fact, there's practically no real vanilla aged or non aged in the product. Instead, the only vanilla taste is due to artificial vanillin Ramirez versus Kraft. This

11 (3m 33s):
Big lawsuit is about crafts velv, vita shells and cheese cups, and the companies claim that it takes only three and a half minutes to make it a microwave. The plaintiff from here in South Florida says that's a lie and she's Suing for false advertising.

6 (3m 46s):
Some might say, well, it is ready in three and a half minutes, but our case says that the ancillary steps that are not listed as part of those three and a half minutes render the three and a half minute claim. Not exactly truthful, and it's our intention that the label should be changed to reflect the time that it actually takes. Ramirez

12 (4m 10s):
Says the claim is false since microwaving for three and a half minutes is one of several steps needed. Spencer,

3 (4m 17s):
Why are you doing this? This type of lawsuit, this type of thing.

6 (4m 21s):
I enjoy these things. I've always enjoyed marketing. I always enjoy, especially smaller things that the types of things that if let's say one were to call a customer service line and complain about, nobody would really take what you say seriously. And while of course this macaroni and cheese is, you know, an example that you know, has garnered a lot of attention, it's just one of many cases that deal with similar types of issues where companies go a little bit farther than I believe they should and that's, you know, where, where I come in or at least you know, where my work is relevant.

3 (5m 4s):
Do you think you are wired a bit differently than other people to look at this and say, Kraft macaroni and cheese takes longer than three minutes to cook, even though the label says three minutes and that's a serious thing. What do you think is going on here? What feelings does this evoke in you?

6 (5m 22s):
Yeah, I would say I'm wired a little bit different. you know, I noticed the smallest of small things in a way that sometimes if, you know, I didn't resist those impulses could prevent me from having a productive day or productive life. Just the smallest little things I'd see at the corner of my eye that, you know, bother me. And sometimes I wish that I could just, you know, go past them. Maybe it's a, it's a table, it's not even at a, at a restaurant that I'm at or maybe it's a, it's a glass that, you know, has a crack in it. So things like that, I just, it's hard for me to look away from those things, but I also recognize that there is humor in these types of things and they don't challenge that.

6 (6m 5s):
And I'm never going to, you know, be so serious and say, oh, this is the most serious thing and you know, this is more important than curing cancer. Or, you know, giving equal rights to underprivileged groups. It's not a choice between one or the other. Just by writing, you know, many of these cases off as, as you know, many people who might click on an article might do. Absolutely. I mean, I don't blame them for thinking, oh, this is so silly. And, you know, making comments or just thinking, well, that's so zany. I mean, I completely understand that.

3 (6m 37s):
Do you get tips from people or are these things that you notice when you're in the grocery store?

6 (6m 41s):
Certain cases, yes. There are things that I become aware of on my own and like any other attorney I can, you know, then inform others of that and then they can tell me, yes, that's something that I experienced and I'd like to do something about that. For many of the cases, that's how they originate. But for many, like this macaroni and cheese, it's legitimately from a third party or you know, somebody who I don't know who contacts me. And while the macaroni and cheese one was filed, I would say at least 90% of the things that people submit to me, I don't file because I would think that, or I just think that they're kind of silly or not that they're kind of silly.

6 (7m 27s):
You probably wonder, wow, what must he think is silly if, yeah,

3 (7m 30s):
I, I gotta say that does come to mind. What, what counts as silly for you?

6 (7m 34s):
Something that I often get is when people come to me about, you know, the pictures on a package not looking like the contents. and that happens every week. We all know what pictures on a box of food, you know, look like, and especially in the area of microwave and frozen meals, they look very delicious. But we also know that after we microwave that food or heat it up, it's not going to look like that. That's one of them that I believe is, you know, unfortunately not at the top of my list for cases to do.

3 (8m 12s):
What changes have your lawsuits brought?

6 (8m 15s):
We are responsible, although it won't be publicly disclosed for the removal of the a and w made with aged vanilla claim from their Root beer and cream soda. Also, I would point you to the Frito-Lay case against the hint of lime Tostitos.

13 (8m 33s):
This time Tostitos is in the hot seat over its lime flavored tortilla chips. A new class action lawsuit argues that there's hardly a hint of lime in the snack food and that is deceiving customers.

6 (8m 45s):
I thought that case was kind of interesting because they were selling these tortilla chips advertised as, you know, hint of lime and there was a transparent lime shaped window on the front of the package. You're

4 (8m 58s):
Probably wondering what makes these chips taste so good? Here's a hint, it's lime. They taste like lime

6 (9m 9s):
And only at the very bottom of the product on all the way down in the corner did it say that, you know, basically that there wasn't in fact a hint of lime. It says they're, you know, flavored a few months after my case was filed. Their new packaging that gets rolled out is pretty clear that the hint of lime is actually a hint of lime flavor, which is qualifier to the hint of lime.

3 (9m 36s):
Is this just a form of, and forgive me for the expression, is this just a form of ambulance chasing? You can make a consistent living as long as you find these small ways in which food and beverage companies are screwing up and they will, they will reliably screw up.

6 (9m 51s):
In a better world where we would have stronger enforcement in regulations from a government and the state and federal regulatory agencies, I wouldn't be doing this and lawyers like me wouldn't have, you know, the opportunity to do this because it would be something that before the product even got to the shelf, there would be a process whereby it's, you know, reviewed and that companies would know that, you know, they should be more conservative with the way they represent it. A you know, less the government, you know, not allow it to be, to be distributed. The same thing about the small benefits that can be said about a lot of different areas of law.

6 (10m 37s):
It's small, but it's multiplied by, you know, millions of, you know, people who see these things. Yes, it's, it's hard to measure and that's one of the issues that lawsuits like this typically struggle with, or at least the courts may struggle with it because how do you define what that value is? To think that somehow there's gonna be a day where you know, this job is somehow complete or you you win, or that everything is going to be, you know, accurate and truthful and honest, that that day will never come. When we're dealing with a society where we have, you know, all different companies independent, competing against each other, it's Impossible to, you know, envision a scenario where everybody is going to follow what we believe are the accurate regulations and guidelines for representing their products.

6 (11m 34s):
And even in some instances, if, if it can be argued that everybody follows the law, which will be argued today, there's always going to be interpretations and that's just, you know, the nature of, of laws and that is the purpose of courts to identify, you know, where those interpretations are correct and where they, you know, should be pushed back a little bit.

3 (12m 5s):
Spencer Sheehan, since this show aired last winter, Spencer has gotten some pushback from judges of all people. His LV Vita lawsuit was dismissed earlier this summer and a federal judge in Syracuse, New York is threatening him with sanctions. Whether you consider these lawsuits, nuisances or serious lying to or misleading consumers about what's in their food seems like a thing that just shouldn't be happening that often and yet it is coming up. Why is it taking lawsuits to get food companies to stop lying to us?

2 (12m 43s):
Basically, the more I talk through this with y'all, the more I am perplexed. I do not know.

Unexplainable podcast (12m 51s):
This week on Unexplainable, we're bringing you a new episode of our game show, unexplainable or Not, and we've got three potential mysteries. Mystery one Oh, Mystery two, Oh, that's so cute. And Mystery three Oh my God, stop. I should have been a scientist. Our guest this week is Sam Sanders, host of Vultures Intuit podcast. I'm good at some things, I'm not particularly good at science things, but I love to talk. Sam's gonna try to guess which of these mysteries are still mysteries and which one has actually recently been solved. I'm scared, I don't know if I'm right or wrong To find out. Follow Unexplainable for new episodes every Wednesday.

Code Conference (13m 41s):
Hi, I'm Nila Patel, editor-in-chief of the Verge and host of the Decoder podcast. This September I'm taking over as one of the new hosts of the code conference alongside CNBC's, Julia Borson and Casey Newton from Platformer and Hard Fork. You've heard us all talk to major players in the worlds of tech and business on our shows, but code has live unfiltered journalism you won't find anywhere else. This year we have onstage interviews with x slash Twitter, c e o, Linda Ya carino, Microsoft C T O, Kevin Scott, and many more. From AI to streaming platform shifts to privacy. No one knows exactly where we're headed, but code is where the world's most influential people come together to find out. Join us for the start of a new era. Apply to attend the code conference now at Vox media.com/code. That's Vox media.com/code. We'll see you in September.

4 (14m 37s):
It's live

3 (14m 40s):
Today explained. We're back with Helena bot Miller Vic, who's the founder and editor-in-Chief of Food Fix, a newsletter about food policy. And Helena, earlier in the show we talked to a class action lawyer who has made Suing food and beverage companies for misleading packaging. His thing. Do you think these lawsuits are effective or are they a waste of time? They

16 (14m 60s):
Can kind of be both at the same time. I mean it's a, it's a really good question. Are consumers really harmed by maybe being confused about vanilla flavoring? Right, which is what those lawsuits are about. Is that an important question? I think a lot of consumers would probably say it isn't, but a lot of litigation like this similar litigation around questions like, you know, calling something natural is that misleading? Those lawsuits have really changed industry practices. They've led to less labeling of, of natural on food products because there were so many lawsuits. So it does change behavior and it does reign in some of this marketing, but whether or not there's a real public health issue I think is a, is a separate question.

16 (15m 42s):
I was

3 (15m 43s):
Surprised when the attorney told me that he has filed hundreds of these lawsuits over the past couple of years. That seems like a lot. Is the pace of this kind of litigation increasing? Are we seeing more of these?

16 (15m 55s):
It is absolutely increasing. That lawyer is so prolific that he is actually named specifically in like the roundup reports that are done about the state of litigation in the, in the country targeting the food industry. Oh, you

3 (16m 10s):
Know him,

16 (16m 11s):
I don't know him personally, but you know, I recently read the Perkins Cooey, you know, update on food litigation, which is basically the map for the food industry of like, you know, what's the state of play and he's specifically named in that report. That's how prolific he is. But there's no question overall these lawsuits have increased really over the past, you know, decade plus we've seen a More than tripling of the number of class action lawsuits targeting food companies and they've really increased in the last year or two and I think a lot of that increase is lawsuits specifically from that attorney.

3 (16m 43s):
Why do you think we're seeing more litigation? Is there something other than this one? Man

16 (16m 47s):
Over time consumers have gotten a lot more interested in their food, where it comes from, you know, marketing claims surrounding it. They're more interested in healthy eating and so I think as the food industry has tried to meet that demand and really market products as more healthful or more natural or more simple, I think it's easier for lawyers to find consumers who are willing to, to sue food companies, right? Because they might feel frustrated when a claim they thought was being made maybe doesn't match up with reality. So there's that. And then I think also money, this comes down to, you know, if you win one of these lawsuits or you or you get a settlement, attorneys take a percentage of the settlement.

16 (17m 30s):
So there's a lot of money at stake and I think the food industry in some ways has made itself sort of an easy target. I mean there's a lot of ridiculous labels out there. I'm a reporter who covers food policy and I am confused about food labels, right? Like I get duped. I am just as confused as I think a lot of consumers find themselves. There's just a lot of claims being made and it's really hard to tell what's real and what's not. Sometimes

3 (17m 53s):
In what way do you get duped?

16 (17m 55s):
I find the egg section particularly fraught like the claims around eggs, cage free pasture raised, you know, on pasture. Some of them actually give space requirements 108 square feet per bird. And you know, if you really pressed me on like which one of these has something behind it and which one doesn't, I think I would have trouble

3 (18m 19s):
To that end when Frito-lay claims that their chips have a hint of lime that is in fact a hint of lime flavoring. Why does it take a lawsuit to make them stop doing that? Isn't there a government agency that regulates this kind of marketing?

16 (18m 33s):
So F D A for sure is on the lead for the labeling of at least the products they oversee, right? So that's about 80% of the food supply, a lot of packaged foods, fruits, vegetables, basically everything except for meat. That's U S D A, right? So U S D A actually pre-app approves labels. Oh, they have a much more hands-on approach. Yes. They pre, they have to approve all labels for meat and poultry products and so F D A is in a much more passive position, right? So they do set rules, but f D A as an agency has a ton on its plate. They're also in charge of food safety for 80% of the food supply. And a lot of experts would tell you they're, you know, they don't necessarily have the resources to really fully do that job as consumers expect them to.

16 (19m 17s):
And so things like food labeling, you know, you know, is everything exactly as it should be. It's not necessarily the top priority of F D A to be out there like policing labels. I think these lawsuits in some ways do provide a check on the industry because you know, if you work for a food company, you know that there are plaintiff's attorneys out there who are looking to catch you on something, right? And if they can get traction in a court and if they can get a settlement, that's, you know, that's the significant cost to the industry.

3 (19m 46s):
Lemme ask you about a big one. What does it take for something to be called healthy?

16 (19m 50s):
Yeah, healthy is such an interesting one because I recently went to the store and tried to find like how many products are actually labeled as healthy because f d a's in the process of updating the definition of healthy F d A has spent seven years trying to update this standard. And we just came out with a proposed rule to do that. Essentially it's, you know, making sure right now we have a limit on fat, total fat, it has to have a certain amount of iron calcium, so it has to have some of the good stuff, right? So F D A has rules around what can, I guess we would say nutrients of, you know, with health benefits, right? So there's some rules around that. F FDA is proposing adding some criteria to that to actually make it stricter and to include a cap on added sugar under

17 (20m 34s):
The existing he healthy definition, you know, oily fish like salmon would not be allowed to carry the healthy claim on its label, but cereals get this sweetened with sugar and packed with sodiums could, and that's because current standards only look at what individual nutrients like vitamin A, C, calcium, iron protein, dietary fiber, and saturated fat on food products. So cereals, they take off certain boxes that meet current standards, whereas salmon naturally contains high levels of fat, which are considered bad back in 1994.

16 (21m 6s):
One of the reasons f D A wants to update the definition of healthy is to have it be more in line with the current dietary guidelines, which does recommend consumers limit their consumption of added sugars to no More than 10% of their total calories. So actually not that much in the grocery stores is right now labeled healthy. Only 5% of products in a grocery store have that label. It's, and that's before F D A makes the definition more strict.

3 (21m 35s):
How are misleading claims on labels brought to the attention of the F D A if not for lawsuits are, does the F D A have like super shoppers that go around and look themselves?

16 (21m 46s):
That's a really good question, and if they do, I want to profile them. I, you know, I think a lot of it frankly is competitors that raise concerns. So, you know, if you notice you're your competitor, let's say you're a bar company and they're making claims saying that they're healthy and they don't meet the definition that would be, I don't know, an example of something you might flag to the F D a. I think that's a a a big fit, a big way. The f d A gets certain things on their radar, but lawsuits do, I think affect the industry behavior in a way that is much broader and also frankly, quicker.

16 (22m 27s):
So going back to the natural example, for a long time we saw food companies using natural as a very common sort of positive word on their labels. And after a ton of lawsuits, food companies are much less willing, I think, to go out on that limb, right? Because if you know you're gonna face litigation over it, it's sort of like why deal with it? But on the flip side, F d A has been totally unwilling to define what is natural, right? Because if f D A had a definition, then you wouldn't be able to get traction in the courts, right? Because it's a decided issue. Yeah, and there's rules. So the food industry for a long time really wanted to see f d a like define natural so that, that it would be a safe term for them to use and the agency never did and probably never will 'cause it's just, it's a really hard thing to define.

3 (23m 17s):
How has the food and beverage industry responded to these lawsuits, especially to the increase in these lawsuits?

16 (23m 23s):
Well, it is certainly keeping defense lawyers, huh? Employed, there's a lot of work, right? So as these lawsuits have exploded, it's not only been work for the plaintiff's bar, but also the defense bar. So, you know, they're, they're defending them, right? And they are in some of these getting a lot of traction. I think the vanilla lawsuits have been mostly dismissed. There's not, not every issue is going to get traction in the courts. And so even, even when they don't get traction, however, though it's a big expense.

18 (23m 52s):
This is just a, a prime example of what we call lawsuit abuse. The evidence is very clear that in these types of consumer class actions that the consumer gets little, if anything, but that the lawyers do quite well.

16 (24m 4s):
You now have a food industry that is very mindful of lawsuits, right? And very mindful of marketing claims and not going too far or not going too far in their marketing claims without thinking like, what is the litigation risk here? I think that is much a much bigger factor in the decisions that food companies make now,

3 (24m 25s):
What's the biggest thing these lawsuits accomplish?

16 (24m 27s):
I think they do reign in marketing a tadd on food labels. I think looking at things like, you know, the baby food lawsuits, the

19 (24m 36s):
Lawsuit alleges one serving of Gerber baby food will expose a six month old to three times the amount of lead an adult is allowed to have in one day.

16 (24m 46s):
Those could potentially have more of an impact because they do push the food industry that, you know, the baby food manufacturers to then push f d a harder to set standards, right? we don't have heavy metal limits for most baby foods and therein lies the issue here, right? Without clear federal standards, there's more gray area and I think more gray area leads to more litigation. And so I think it does create some more pressure on f D A to set clearer standards and to, you know, be more of a cop on the beat.

3 (25m 28s):
Today's show was produced by Victoria Chamberlin and edited by Matthew Collette. It was engineered by by Robert Mosey and fact checked by Laura Bullard. The rest of the team includes Amanda Luellen, Halima Shaw, Isha Artsy Haddi, mdi, miles, Brian John Aren, SI, Petros, Patrick Boyd, David Herman, and my co-host Sean Rames firm. Our supervising producer is Amina El Sade, and our EP is Miranda Kennedy. We use music from Breakmaster Cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld. I'm Noel King. If you like the show, please leave us a review on Apple Podcasts or Spotify. Leave a nice one. Sean reads all of the reviews today explained as part of the Vox Media podcast network. And we are distributed to public radio stations across these United States by W N Y C.