0 (0s):
Could I ask you guys a question? Uhuh? No, we can record it. No, not the camera. Yeah. Oh, it's not a camera, it's just

1 (7s):
Tell. I'm I'm work. I'm sorry we're not, I'm working hard

2 (10s):
Today. Explained Producer Victoria Chamberlain went creeping around a Safeway supermarket in Washington, DC yesterday, asking employees and shoppers a question. Do you know who owns your local grocery store? The employees couldn't talk, the shoppers could. Victoria asked locals,

0 (27s):
Do you know who owns Safeway stores? Do you know the name of the company? I don't know. No, I don't know

2 (33s):
At all. And visitors

3 (35s):
A conglomerate which pays me off. Cuz you fuel your grog and your food. All own all the same company.

2 (43s):
People understand their local grocery store as part of a much bigger chain, but now two of the biggest chains want to become one. What that means for you, your choices, and your wallet coming up on today. Explained

5 (1m 1s):
Support for this podcast comes from OnAir Fest. And if you're like me and love great storytelling, then OnAir Fest, La Annex could be just what you need. The preeminent event for audio storytelling and creativity is bringing their show to la. November 3rd through the fifth, come join headliners like me, Sam Sanders from Vultures into it as we celebrate LA's audio storytelling scene at multiple locations. Meet audio makers, artists and more and celebrate the creative community. For tickets, full lineup and schedule visit on air fest.com.

2 (1m 43s):
It's today explained AM Noel King. Ron Knox is a senior researcher and writer at the Institute for Local Self-Reliance. And we called him up to explain this proposed supermarket super merger

6 (1m 55s):
Supermarket chain. Kroger announced that it wants to buy its rival Albertson's for about 25 billion.

7 (2m 3s):
Experts say the merger would give both companies more buying power, allowing them to be more competitive with Walmart.

0 (2m 9s):
As part of the deal, Albertsons will pay a special cash dividend up to $4 billion to a shareholders on record. As of October 24th,

8 (2m 18s):
We will invest half a billion dollars or $500 million in lower prices for customers.

6 (2m 24s):
That merger would combine the largest and the fourth largest grocery store chains in the country. Kroger, again, largest full service grocery chain in the us. It's second only to Walmart in terms of grocery sales. These name brands, you know, these are like the corporate names of these companies. They might not be that familiar to your listeners, but through a series of other mergers in industry consolidation over the last few decades, these companies own a bunch of other name brands, supermarket chains around the country. So you might not have heard of Albertson's, but you might have heard of Safeway, for example, you might have heard of Jewel Osco, you might have heard of Acme Markets, which is really big in the northeast of the country.

6 (3m 5s):
And then for Kroger, Dylans, Fred Meyers, Food for Less. Harris Teeter, Marianos, qfc, Ralph's, Ruler Foods, Smith Vitacost Fries, Home Chef King Supers. There might be others. It's a big deal.

2 (3m 25s):
What are Kroger and Albertsons saying about this merger? Why do, why do they say what they wanna do it?

6 (3m 31s):
They're basically saying what a lot of companies say when they propose these kinds of mergers. They're saying that they're going to be able to save a lot of money and they are going to take that savings and they're going to pass it on to consumers in the form of lower prices and they're gonna be able to reinvest in the stores and, and so on.

2 (3m 52s):
How does this save them money?

6 (3m 53s):
Well, let's say you have a, you know, a city where you have some Kroger owned stores and some Albertson's own stores. The companies merge. They probably don't need both of those stores. Having all that additional overhead is gonna cut into, you know, to profits and to the bottom line. So the companies tend to, to close those stores, lay off those workers who are at those stores and save money that way.

2 (4m 21s):
We're all dealing with inflation right now. When I go to my Safeway, which is owned by Albertsons, I know that I'm paying more for groceries than I was a year ago, 18 months ago. Why is that happening? So

6 (4m 33s):
First I would be remiss if I didn't mention that the producer price index, which is how they measure the cost of growing crops and raising cows and chickens and so on, those things do fluctuate and, and they have been fluctuating. But the other thing that's happening is that we've seen a significant increase in corporate profits, particularly for these chains.

9 (4m 55s):
Speaking of inflation, some companies see it as a threat to their business. But the Kroger company, while they're treating it like a competitive advantage, the Cincinnati based grocery chain saw a 10% jump in its stock price today after telling investors it's growing by helping customers balance their budgets.

10 (5m 12s):
A little bit of inflation is always good in our

6 (5m 15s):
Business. Kroger's profits grew nearly 14% over the last year. That's, you know, that's not revenue, that's profit. And what it did with that money is that it offered its shareholders a 24% increase in dividends and it bought back about a billion dollars worth of its own stock. So those higher prices, again, the, you know, kind of the two things that's happening there, Fluctuation in prices for the stuff that sits on supermarket shelves, but then there's also this increase in corporate profits, which is just patting the bottom line of these stores.

2 (5m 49s):
There is an argument, if we don't grow, we will be subsumed by Amazon. We've already been subsumed by Walmart. Are you at all sympathetic to the argument that like growth at this point is merge or become obsolete? Cuz our competitors are gonna grow?

6 (6m 6s):
Look, I understand, and I, and I definitely understand the company's desire to increase their bargaining power when it comes to negotiations with their suppliers. They would love to pay less for things. The problem is, is in the assumption that these massive supermarket change, these national chains are somehow struggling to survive and, and are having a hard time keeping their, you know, their doors open. That's really not what's happening. And you can see that from their bottom lines, you know, from from their profits. The idea that these companies have to merge to survive is really undercut by the reality that you see in the marketplace.

2 (6m 48s):
All right, so Kroger and Albertson's own a lot of stores in the United States. Do you know how much of the country they're in? Like if I looked at a map and I could see Kroger, Albertson's and every store that Kroger or Albertson's own, what would I be seeing?

6 (7m 2s):
Well, between the stores and their, you know, warehouse facilities and others, they're in almost the entire country. 48 states plus Washington DC and combined, they have more than 700,000 workers in those facilities.

2 (7m 16s):
700,000 workers. How many

6 (7m 18s):
Stores? Almost 5,000 stores.

2 (7m 21s):
Almost 5,000 stores, and almost 700,000 employees. All right, So when, when news of a merger comes, the, the people who are most likely to be nervous about it, are the employees, 700,000 people got the news or heard the news that their employers are combining? Are those workers in unions?

6 (7m 40s):
Some are and some aren't. Much of the Albertson's network of stores are unionized, but some of the Kroger stores are not. So a big example of that is Harris Teeter in the Washington DC area. When Kroger bought the Harris Teeter franchise, they bought those stores as non-union stores. And since then, Harris Teeter has been very, very resistant to unionization. And there's still a non-union shop, so it's kind of a mixed bag.

2 (8m 9s):
Do we know what the employees are saying? I imagine this probably came as something of a surprise to them.

6 (8m 14s):
The employees are worried. A few years back, there was a merger between Safeway and Albertons. That's how Albertons came to acquire the Safeway network. And since that merger, those companies have closed 170 stores. That's a lot of layoffs. That's a lot of union jobs lost. So employees are worried. And some of the affected locals of the United Food and Commercial Workers, which is the union that organizes supermarket employees, they are very concerned as well. And, and in some ways they're resisting this merger.

11 (8m 49s):
Tom Geiger with U F C W 3000 says they've been opposed to the merger from the get go, which is why they've partnered with other unions in the area to stop this all together.

12 (8m 59s):
People that you know are having a hard time paying for food themselves, honestly, seeing the companies that they work for, giving away billions to shareholders is not, not well received.

2 (9m 11s):
When is this deal supposed to take place?

6 (9m 13s):
You know, the companies say it's scheduled to close, they hope to close it by 2024, but it's going to face some significant scrutiny from the Federal Trade Commission before that can happen.

2 (9m 25s):
And on the face of it, this is being done in part to lower prices for consumers. Consumers who, at this point in history are very concerned about inflation. Is it gonna do that? Is my, is my grocery bill gonna be less?

6 (9m 39s):
Well, you know, it's a, it, it's an interesting claim that the companies have made, right? If they wanted to lower prices to consumers, they could just do it because they, you know, they don't need to offer these, you know, these dividends. They don't need to buy back their own stocks. They could lower prices on the shelves if it wanted to eat into some of those profits. And, and, and it hasn't done that. These mergers happen all the time, and not just in the retail sector, not just in supermarkets, but there are many, many instances of these mergers where in order to get the deal done, the companies say, Look, we're gonna lower prices, you're gonna end up, you know, consumers are gonna be better off. If this deal happens, then the deal happens and those price savings never actually occur.

6 (10m 25s):
And what's more often prices go up, which is actually the natural thing that you would expect to happen when a company increases its power in the market and is able to essentially charge whatever it wants to charge for things. Because shoppers have fewer choices out there. The real danger is that you end up with this extremely consolidated grocery sector where you have one or two stores in a lot of places around the country. And these inflationary pressures that we're all having to deal with, we're all paying more for the stuff we need at the supermarket. Those actually increase because these companies end up with even more power to charge whatever they want for the things that sit on their shelves.

6 (11m 9s):
That's the real danger.

15 (11m 34s):
Fox Creative.

16 (11m 35s):
This is advertiser content from the American Cancer Society.

14 (11m 40s):
My name's Dr. Chad Paco. I am a cancer survivor. I grew up a pretty inquisitive kid. I was more interested in the way things worked mechanically outside of the body until I got sick myself with cancer. My second year of college, when I was 20, I ended up getting diagnosed with testicular cancer. That's when I began thinking about medical school because I felt this kind of calling, I guess you could say. And it also really instilled a sense of solidarity.

16 (12m 10s):
For more than a hundred years, the American Cancer Society has been the nation's leading cancer fighting organization by providing essential day-to-day support, advocating for health equity and affordable care, funding, breakthrough life saving research, and so much more. ACS exists to improve the lives of cancer patients and families

14 (12m 31s):
In a lot of ways. ACS has always been there for me. The ACS Hope Lodge basically offered me a home away from home as I underwent cancer treatment. And then as I started my research career, one of the very first grants I got was an ACS research scholar grant. Being a cancer survivor and a lung cancer specialist, no one needs to convince me that we can cure cancer,

16 (12m 54s):
Donate, fundraise, volunteer, visit cancer.org/get involved the American Cancer Society. Every cancer, every life

2 (13m 9s):
Cover story from New York Magazine is back. I'm Hannah Rosen, host of Season two Seed Money. This season we have a story about a billionaire.

17 (13m 19s):
He's the most articulate, he's the most savvy, he's the most, he's very cunning

2 (13m 24s):
An xy.

18 (13m 25s):
This isn't an aberration that just happened, you know, a couple years ago. This is a pattern of

2 (13m 30s):
Behavior. Many, many women, it's

19 (13m 33s):
Almost like he's using all the women as a startup

2 (13m 36s):
Company. And so, so many lies happens

20 (13m 39s):
Once in everybody's life. And this guy is a master liar, Master liar.

17 (13m 45s):
If I can't stop him, I don't think anybody will be able to stop him. And

2 (13m 50s):
What did you think about yourself?

21 (13m 52s):
I was the dumbest mother in the United States States. He got me good

2 (13m 58s):
Cover story season two Seed money. Listen wherever you get your podcasts

22 (14m 9s):
For the best everything. Let's go Kroger. You can count on us. That's, Let's go.

2 (14m 25s):
We're back with Ron Knox. He's a senior researcher and writer at the Institute for Local Self-Reliance. And Ron, you also host a podcast, what is it called?

6 (14m 36s):
It's called The Anti Monopoly. Happy hour. Yo, welcome back. Welcome back to the Anti-Monopoly Happy hour. I'm your host, Ron Knox, Senior researcher at the Institute for Local Self-Reliance, your friendly neighborhood Monopoly Crusher.

2 (14m 51s):
When we left off a minute ago, you seem to be suggesting that even though Kroger and Albertsons are telling us, Hey consumers, you've been dealing with inflation, this is gonna mean lower prices, you don't actually believe that's true. What do you think is gonna happen and why? Well,

6 (15m 9s):
I think if this deal is allowed to go through, it's going to give this combined mega chain of supermarkets power, essentially on both sides of its ledger to affect prices however it wants. So the two sides are prices that it can charge for the things on its shelves that it sells to people with fewer supermarkets to offer competition on price, not only price, but on, on quality, on innovation, on service and so on. It's gonna be able to do essentially what it wants, especially in parts of the country where there isn't a lot of other supermarket competition. And then the other side of its ledger is that it's gonna be able to push down the prices that it can charge to its suppliers, brands that sell everything from cereal to laundry detergent to beer, you know, and so on.

6 (15m 59s):
All the things that you can find in most grocery stores. So that's actually what's going to happen. This isn't just a prediction with, you know, with nothing behind it. These mergers have been studied for a long time, 15 years ago or so, the government allowed a merger between Whirlpool and Maytag. These are obviously two massive appliance manufacturers. And the companies got this deal through by saying, Ah, it's gonna save a bunch of money because it was gonna cut out these overlaps and it was gonna pass those savings onto consumers. Pretty much the same argument. So what happened? The two companies did save a lot of money because they closed factories all over the country and never reopened them.

23 (16m 40s):
Today's announcement by Whirlpool that it's closing a plant in Arkansas and eliminating 5,000 jobs was eerily familiar news for the people of Evansville, Indiana two

6 (16m 51s):
Years ago laying off, you know, thousands of workers, a lot of those were good middle class union jobs. What happened to the prices? Researchers looked at the prices of the appliances that these two companies sold and found out that they had actually gone up after the merger. The prices of dryers in particular had increased pretty drastically. There's another example just a few years ago when at and t was allowed to buy Time Warner after the government tried to, you know, to challenge that deal and failed in court, the companies told the judge in court that they were going to lower prices for consumers. What actually happened was after that deal closed just a few weeks later, they increased prices across the board.

6 (17m 32s):
They cut out free HBO to their mobile subscribers and they made other changes that essentially serve to pat its bottom line, make more money and exert that new power they had in the marketplace. So again, this is not theoretical stuff. This is the kind of thing that happens when these, these big mergers are allowed to happen.

2 (17m 57s):
In order for this deal to go through, somebody has to approve it, even as people like you are expressing disapproval. Whose court is this in? Now

6 (18m 7s):
This merger is going to be reviewed more than likely by the Federal Trade Commission, which is one of our two antitrust law enforcers and regulators along with the Department of Justice. The FTC does retail supermarkets. That's kind of part of their remit. And they've analyzed every big supermarket merger for the last, you know, 40 years or so, and they'll continue to do so here.

2 (18m 34s):
The FTC never seems to say no, that's why there's a CVS on every corner, right? Or like a Walgreens on every corner. What has been going on at the FTC for the past generation or so? The

6 (18m 45s):
Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice have embraced this philosophy where if you propose a merger, that merger is objectively anti-competitive on its face. That is, it's going to drastically increase concentration. You're gonna end up with fewer stores, you're gonna end up with higher prices, All these other, all these other things. The agencies have allowed those. If emerging companies can propose what we call a divestiture, that is, if they say, Okay, we're gonna spin off this number of stores, we're gonna spin off this number of factories or production facilities, we're going to license our intellectual property.

6 (19m 27s):
If they propose these kinds of fixes for these mergers, the agencies have tended to say, Okay, great, you're good. You can do it. These so-called fixes, these divestitures, when they're actually put into practice in the real world, often fail. And they often do not replace the competition that is lost in, you know, in these deals. They're example examples of that throughout industries and certainly in the supermarket sector, there's been a pretty checkered history of these kinds of divestitures actually working. Tell

2 (20m 1s):
Me the story of when Albertsons acquired Safeway.

6 (20m 4s):
It was a merger quite like the one that we're looking at now, where there were all of these overlaps around the country and in and in a lot of places there would be some really significant competition loss. So in some places they would go from three supermarkets to two, or even from two to one. So the companies told the Federal Trade Commission, Look, we are gonna solve this. We're gonna sell off a bunch of these stores to a third party. We're gonna help 'em run these stores. We're gonna help 'em get up and off the ground and we're gonna replace that competition that's gonna be lost and everything's going to be hunky dory. And the Federal Trade Commission looked at the deal and said, Okay, sure, why not? We'll, we'll buy it. So they sell off all these stores to a third party, this other quite small regional supermarket chain called Hagans.

6 (20m 50s):
And a few months go by and these stores struggle mightily to the point where Hagan actually has to declare bankruptcy. Hagan ends suing Albertson's in federal court.

24 (21m 2s):
Hagan is suing Albertson's for a billion dollars. Hagan bought more than 100 stores from Albertson's earlier this year, including seven here in southern Nevada. But they say Albertson's lied about pricing data and hacked into Hagan's confidential information,

6 (21m 20s):
Hagan's and that were it not for, for Albertson's actions, Hagan's stores would've been fine and they would've been able to compete. So a lot of those stores get shuttered, some get sold back to Albertson's. And essentially all of the worst fears about that deal and its ability to, you know, to quash competition come true.

2 (21m 39s):
And for consumers it meant what,

6 (21m 41s):
You know, consumers lost the stores. I mean, there are places now in, you know, in Colorado that had those stores close. These are in black and brown communities that have already suffered through disinvestment and other hallmarks of systemic racism. And now suddenly the one store that they relied on for their food has closed. And so it's been very, very destructive for a lot of communities around the country.

25 (22m 9s):
I think this store needs to be a grocery store and I don't wanna see it go away and not have any other options. That's what I want.

26 (22m 18s):
Yeah, everybody knows me inside the store. You know, I've been coming here for almost 17 years. How can,

2 (22m 26s):
Why do companies get away with this if, if history shows us this is what happens, consumers get

6 (22m 32s):
Screwed. It's hard to upend a philosophy that's been in place and been driven by true believers for decades. And the evidence of these things failing. A lot of the evidence of higher prices, of hollowed out communities, of abused suppliers and workers didn't really move the needle for the folks who were at the agencies during this time who weren't interested in those kind of results. And their interest was really in the philosophy that the government should take pretty much a hands off approach that the market's gonna sort these things out on its own.

6 (23m 12s):
The result is pretty clear to, you know, to me today, is that an economy that's really dominated by monopoly power in a multitude of industries. And certainly supermarkets are no exception to that at the moment. The four largest supermarket brands combined control almost two thirds of the entire industry. That is concentrated economic power, that is monopoly by our definition. And it's the kind of thing that will just get worse if this deal is allowed to go through.

2 (23m 42s):
Lawmakers and regulators have spent much of the past several years asking whether tech companies are forming monopolies. One of the things that seems to happen in in these hearings is that the lawmakers sometimes seem like they don't exactly know what tech companies are or do or how they make their money. And really nothing has happened. No one, nothing's been broken up, right? Mark Zuckerberg is still Mark Zuckerberg. Arguably this merger is a bigger deal because people have to eat, they don't have to be on Instagram. And I don't mean to be flip, I'm being literal. Do you think that this merger will get more scrutiny from Washington than we are used to seeing when the word antitrust or monopoly is being thrown around?

2 (24m 25s):
I

6 (24m 25s):
Think it will get some significant attention on Capitol Hill, and I think that's important. But moreover, I think it will get significant attention at the Federal Trade Commission. Look, Lena Conn, who's the chair of the FTC right now, she just gave a keynote address at a conference in Utah and she talked about what, what she thought, and perhaps what the commission is thinking about these kind of corporate divestitures that are supposedly able to cure these problems in these big mergers, these big mega deals. And she said that, and I'm not quoting, I'm paraphrasing, but she said that the FTC is very concerned that sometimes these divestitures just don't actually fix the problem.

6 (25m 7s):
And that in order to actually fix the problem, you just have to say no to these deals.

27 (25m 12s):
Significant market consolidation, deprives consumers, workers, and independent businesses of choice further enabling dominant firms to engage in unfair practices. Market dominance often allows companies to reneg on commitments, evade the law, and repeatedly violate commission orders.

6 (25m 29s):
So yes, I think Capitol Hill is gonna pay attention. I think lawmakers should pay attention because this is crucial to lots and lots of people around the country. But moreover, I think the Federal Trade Commission is going to pay very close attention to this. And I think they will be very skeptical at this idea that the companies have put forward that they can just sell off some stores, fix the deal and everything's gonna be fine.

2 (25m 58s):
Today's show was produced by Victoria Chamberlain and fact checked by Laura Bullard. It was edited by Matthew Colette and engineered by Paul Robert Mounty. I'm Noelle King today. Explained.