3 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from yext. It's like text but with a why jetzt everyone. Say it with me. Yes. Just Yaks Tad's a powerful search engine to your website. So your customers can get an official answer to every question. They have about your business. And that means you can drive more transactions. Hello name of the game and reduce your support costs. You can try yext answers for free. Just go to yext.com Learn more about how yext answers can help your website work harder for your business.

1 (37s):
This episode is brought to you by Samsung. Hey, I'm Voz. I'm a streamer gamer and all around the internet person a little later in the show. I'm going to be taking a look at not the future of 5G, but the present how this technology affects us right now because when you upgrade to a 5G Saint, there's so much you can do you can be one of the first to Crystal Clear video or the first to stream with virtually no lag be one of the first to buy G today with Galaxy 5 G now. Babylon Galaxy S 25g and a 71 5G feels good to be first with Samsung.

3 (1m 28s):
The Supreme Court wrapped up its 200 and 30th season today. Everyone was waiting to hear what the nine justices would say about President Trump's taxes including us back in December of 2019. Remember 2019. We previewed the tax cases. With Andrea Bernstein from W nyc's Trump Inc podcast today. We're going to replay some of that detailed

1 (1m 52s):
background Andrea provided

3 (1m 54s):
before going to our pal Ian milhiser to talk about the results. Here we go.

1 (2m 4s):
So there are two cases that stem from congressional subpoenas that Trump sued. So as not to have his tax returns turned

3 (2m 16s):
over and those are trumpy maze ours and trumpy

1 (2m 18s):
Deutsche Bank. Yes, and the third case is the Manhattan district attorney and this case arises from an investigation into Trump's business that came from the Stormy Daniels case a piece of it got To the Manhattan DA's in Manhattan da began investigating requested Trump's tax returns and at that point Trump sued the da so that's the third case Trump be Vance

3 (2m 43s):
and I guess this Story begins during the 2016 campaign when candidate Trump breaks with tradition and refuses to release his tax returns. How rich is this tradition of sharing your financial

1 (2m 56s):
information every president in modern history has released his tax return to the public remind us why because it's important for people to understand whether the president is acting in his or her own interests or in the country's interests. The founders were so concerned about political corruption and they felt that corruption could be as big a threat as a foreign army that it could corrupt the Democracy from within so they put in all kinds of measures to Bar political leaders from even the temptation. Doing something wrong and the release of the tax returns is in that tradition that it's sort of it's a check.

1 (3m 40s):
It's a control on having somebody who might be acting for a personal interest and not for the country's

3 (3m 46s):
interest. So what's the argument the President Trump makes in 2016 for not releasing them

1 (3m 51s):
he gives a bunch of reasons. He says my business is so complicated. It's under audit. I'll release it after its audited.

3 (3m 59s):
But if I were finished with the audit, I would have an open mind to it. I would say that but I don't want to do it during the audit and and really no lawyer even from the other side. They say often not always but when you're under audit, you don't have you don't subject it to that you get it done and then you release it and just to be clear here candidate Clinton releases, her tax returns and candidate Trump does

1 (4m 24s):
not during the race, correct, then once he's elected president and hasn't released his tax returns the argument is that oh, well the people voted for me and so on. SLI, they approve of my decision not to release my tax returns. So as

3 (4m 38s):
president, he's got a republican house a republican-controlled senate does the taxes issue kind of just go away for two years.

1 (4m 46s):
Well, it kind of does because there's no one to make him. We can now officially project that the Democrats will take control of the house.

3 (4m 58s):
This is a very significant defeat for mr. Trump the historic accomplishment for the Democrats

1 (5m 4s):
Democrats getting subpoena power the ability to investigate the president and 2018 election Democrats take over in the house and they make very clear that one of the things they want to do is oversight so they start doing investigations. Round about the spring three committees start filing subpoenas for President Trump's Financial records from in one case his accountants and in another case his bankers and they go to court they request these subpoenas and almost immediately Trump brings in a team of lawyers and says, no you cannot have these because you don't have a valid inquiry and also you are trying to provide a law enforcement function which are not allowed to do.

1 (5m 52s):
That's how to of the cases get to federal judges in New York and in the District of Columbia and then once they're in those courts, they start working their way through and Trump starts losing he loses at the federal court level. He loses at the circuit level and that's how the case gets to the Supreme

3 (6m 10s):
Court. Okay. Well, let's go through each of these cases one by one there to that originate from congressional investigations. The first is Trump V maze ours. What's the story there?

1 (6m 23s):
So in this case the house is trying to get Trump's tax returns from his accountants and the accountant seemed inclined to cooperate until the Trump family business intervened and said that couldn't happen that there were various problems including what they argued was a separation of powers and there was an argument in federal court and Trump lost that case and lost it. Very quickly and almost simultaneously the same house lawyers and the same Trump lawyers were in a courtroom in New York arguing the Deutsche Bank case.

1 (7m 5s):
Okay, and this is the second case the

3 (7m 6s):
Supreme Court will hear what's the situation in the Trump V Deutsche Bank case

1 (7m 11s):
in this case. The house is looking at whether there was foreign influence in elections and whether there was some money laundering through banks. It's and through business relationships that the Trump's might have had. So they're saying we need to see the records and among the records it speaking from Deutsche Bank are Trump's tax returns. Now in the Deutsche Bank case, the judge said at the end of the oral arguments to the Trump's you don't have a case you are wrong. There is nothing that bars these records from being turned over at which point the Trump's immediately appealed.

1 (7m 51s):
So the decision in those two cases those two Congressional cases, they've really attract each other. They've been very close. The rulings have been similar first. There was a federal judge that said no you're wrong because it Trump's then the district court said no you're wrong. So he loses the Deutsche Bank case at the district level and at the circuit level and he loses the maze ours case at the district level and the second circuit level and each time. He loses these cases. These are not not namby-pamby decisions. The judges are saying the president is not King. That was an actual line indecision Congressional inquiries are legitimate.

1 (8m 35s):
So these are very strongly worded decisions.

3 (8m 38s):
Okay. So two of these Supreme Court cases originated from the house and they both tried to get the president's Financial records in different ways one going through the president's accountants and one going through his bank. What about the third case that originated with the Manhattan da Trump V

1 (8m 55s):
Vance? The third case is interesting because in the first two cases Trump's lawyers argued Congress is violating its constitutionally authorized Powers because it is trying to do what a prosecutor would do. The Vance case is so interesting because it's in fact a prosecutor so they cannot be making that argument so they are making a difference. Different argument and the argument that they are making is that a president has absolute immunity from investigation even not even prosecution just investigation so long as he or she is a sitting president which has enormous implications which did come out in the arguments in the second Circuit Court of Appeals.

1 (9m 44s):
When one of the judges as Trump's lawyer, he said what about the Fifth Avenue example and what he's talking about is the Presidents come and that he could shoot somebody on Fifth Avenue and no one would complain.

3 (9m 56s):
What's your view on the Fifth Avenue example local authorities couldn't investigate they couldn't do anything about it. I think once the president is removed from office. They'll any local Authority. This is

1 (10m 10s):
not a permanent immunity.

3 (10m 11s):
Well, I'm talking about while in office. No, nothing could be done. That's your position. That is

1 (10m 16s):
correct. And what the judge is saying is are you saying if the president shot someone on Fifth Avenue? Knew he would be immune from investigation and the Trump's lawyers answer was yes, so long as he's a sitting

3 (10m 29s):
president. All right as promised a break and then we're going to talk about whether the president can just do whatever he wants.

1 (10m 45s):
He can't

3 (10m 48s):
support for the show today comes from yext. It's like text but with a why jetzt everyone say it with me yest yext adds a powerful search engine to your website. So your customers can get an official answer to every question. They have about your business and that means you can drive more transactions. Hello name the game and reduce your Costs you can try yext answers for free. Just go to yext.com and learn more about how yext answers can help your website work harder for your business.

1 (11m 24s):
This is Advertiser content. Hey, this is Bo's I'm a podcaster streamer gamer and I'm basically all over the Internet. So one of the things that I'm super interested in is how new technology affects our lives today with the help of Samsung Galaxy 5. Gee, I'm looking at how technology connects us. Let's get into it with dr. Jennifer gold back. She's a professor at the University of Maryland studying how our online interactions affect their daily lives. Dr. James. What do you see as the biggest promise of 5G, but I think it's going to really open a new way of thinking about how do we share these real-world offline experiences that were having now?

1 (12m 4s):
It's 5G. We're going to take this next Leap Forward. We're going to be able to do stuff that we couldn't think of with slower connections fine. Logically, how do you think that this affects us? Yeah, it's such a good question. If things kind of get in the way of us doing what we're trying to do, it can be so frustrating because it builds up over the course of the day. And so if we have seamless video If we don't have those little delays it's going to make us feel better. It's going to reduce that frustration that's going to make us nicer to everybody else. It's going to make us happier. Wow, it's seriously been so interesting talking to you today, and I have a million questions, but that's all the time that we have for Samsung and my guest.

1 (12m 44s):
Dr. Jennifer gold back. Thank you so much for joining us be one of the first to start enhancing Your World online and off with Galaxy 5G now available on Galaxy S 25 G and a 71 5G feels good to be first with Sam's Club.

3 (13m 8s):
Then let's not waste anyone's time. What happened at the Supreme Court today with Trump's taxes the president lost the case involving the prosecutorial probe the state prosecutorial probe. So the wall is the same there, but he got a pretty big victory in the other case. The maze ours case the court didn't say that he is immune from investigation, but it puts some pretty strict new limits on The house's ability to investigate. President and that means that the wall moved very much in Trump's direction today interesting. Okay. Well, let's dig into it starting with the Congressional cases as we did in the first half of the episode what happened with the whole maze ours case what happened today?

3 (13m 50s):
So up until today the rule was that Congress has sweeping power to conduct almost any investigation that it wants to conduct. Okay what the Supreme Court said today is that that broad rule does not apply the The United States the president of the United States is special and so it put all kinds of new limits on congress's ability to investigate the president and what that means in practice is that a lower court is going to have to hear this case all over again. I think it's likely that Congress is going to have to narrow it subpoenas at the very least. They're going to have to look at what the new rules say and try to figure out what they can do with those new rules and this litigation is going to go on and on and on for months.

3 (14m 34s):
Years, which means it's going to be months or years before anyone in the house sees Trump's Financial records. Would anyone in the house still try or even have the authority to see his facial records after he's president.

1 (14m 47s):
Well after he

3 (14m 48s):
steps down if attentively gets easier, but at the same time when he's no longer the president the need for these records is less important. I mean one thing that they're probing here for example is whether or not the president of the United States has nefarious ties to Russia. Or to certain former Soviet businessmen, right? And well, you know if it's the sitting president United States you really care if it's a former president, I mean you still care if that's the case but there's less of an immediate threat there. And so the need to see the records becomes less serious. What was the vote out of curiosity? So the vote here was really lopsided which was surprising.

3 (15m 28s):
It was in The Maze ours case. It was 7 to 2 and the really surprising thing. Is that all Or of the liberal justices joined the majority opinion wound. So not a partisan vote. So to speak. Yeah. I mean I can only speculate as to why the Liberals voted the way that they did it's possible that they decided it was better to throw in with Chief Justice Roberts who wrote the majority opinion then risk him having this siding with the most conservative justices and writing and opinion those even more favorable to tromp. I mean one other thing that I'll note. Is that the lawyer for the house who Argued this case did not do a good job at the or Alarcon is one of the worst oral argument performances.

3 (16m 11s):
Frankly that I've seen before The Supreme Court and you know on the margins that can matter maybe some of the liberal justices were turned off by the fact that he didn't seem to have good answers to some of their questions now in the other big decision the Vance decision out of New York. There was also a 7 to ruling but kind of like 7 to the other way. Is that fair? I think that's mostly true. There's been a long line of decisions saying that the president is not above the law. For example in Clinton Vee Jones. The Supreme Court said that the president can be sued by private citizens and the fact that he's president doesn't mean that he has full lawsuit immunity, you know, the court has said that federal courts May or federal prosecutors potentially can conduct criminal investigations into the president.

3 (16m 57s):
This case asks whether State prosecutors May conduct criminal investigations into the president and the answers. That is also yes the president still not above the law still not immune to legal process. Does this mean that someone's going to at some point get to see his Tax Returns on the answer that question is we don't know. So what's going on here is that Cyrus Vance the Manhattan district attorney subpoena Trump's accounting firm. They want a bunch of financial documents relating to Trump and also to Trump's companies, you know, they're probing whether or not just Donald Trump personally, but the Organization may be other Executives in the Trump organization had committed crimes and so they want to see these financial documents.

3 (17m 42s):
So they can determine whether or not crimes have been committed. The implication of today's decision is just that that investigation is not going to be shut down in its entirety Trump can't just say I'm the president nana. Nana. I win if you know the District Attorney's able to overcome whatever new objections Trump May raise, then the district attorney will See these documents. They will be part of a grand-jury investigation often those investigations are confidential. So the public may never see them but it this case at least holds open the possibility that some day we will know what's in those documents. How did President Trump take these decisions?

3 (18m 22s):
I mean, he took it in very trumpian for me, you know, he sent out a tweet thread saying that, you know, some other presidents were super corrupt and you know suggesting that he was It unfairly this is about prosecutorial misconduct. We catch the other side spying of my campaign the biggest political crime and scandal in US history and nothing happens. I doubt that he really understood what the court had done because it's not like, you know, this was a terrible day for him. But you know, Donald Trump's gonna Donald Trump and so he complained about it chances are the president didn't read the opinions II think that's right. I'm he sent out a tweet thread ting to them so quickly.

3 (19m 5s):
I mean, I hadn't read the opinion Jet and it's my job to do that. I think a lot of people heading into this particular session of the Supreme Court with such major cases on the line regarding abortion rights Native American rights President Trump's taxes immigration were really afraid that more recent Trump appointees would just rule completely in line with President Trump himself. Who is obviously shown quite a disdain for the courts for the legal apparatus of this country? Do people like Gorsuch and Cavanaugh surprise?

3 (19m 46s):
So I think there were two factors in play here. One is Chief Justice Roberts. I think the Chief Justice Roberts recognizes that there has to be some daylight between the law and the preferences of the Republican president and most of the decisions that he handed down that please liberals were very narrow. I mean, I think he's abortion decision. Is a one-off good for this ride only the very next abortion law that comes to him. He's going to uphold the attempt to restrict abortion. But I think that Roberts probably wanted to show that the court was engaged in something other than pure politics.

3 (20m 29s):
I think that Gorsuch is the other Factor, you know Gorsuch has said that it's important to read statutes very literally if you look at for example, the LGBT rights case Bostock. You had a wall if you just read the law. It was very clear that the language of that law pointed in a pro-lgbt direction and you know to his credit Gorsuch was able to say look like this is what it says. And I've said you have to follow what it says. So I'm going to do what it says. So I don't know if I was flabbergasted that anything that happened this term, but I do think that the court showed that even though this is an extraordinarily conservative Court.

3 (21m 10s):
It does want to be engaged in. Something other than pure Republican policy making Ian. Thank you. What is supreme court reporters do when the Supreme Court is out of session the answers I'm taking next week off assuming that there's no retirement. Congratulations. Thank you in milhiser covers the Supreme Court of the United States for Vox. I'm Sean rhombus permits. a explain You thought I was gonna finish the show up today without talking about my ongoing love affair with rise.com.

3 (21m 57s):
But that is not the case. Our love is forever rise.com is an all-in-one system that makes online training easy to create enjoyable to take and simple to manage Learners love rise because training is beautiful and interactive managers love rise because training is simple to create distribute and analyze and it loves rise because it's completely insecure and I love rise because they support today explained see why you will love Rise by starting a free 30-day trial at rise.com today.