2 (1s):
This program is brought to you by twilio a customer engagement platform trusted by millions of developers enabling you to reinvent how you connect with your customers. Whatever your use case

1 (11s):
twilio has your back. It's time to build visit twilio.com. This year we are all students

2 (19s):
at Verizon. We're working to enable education for students in need helping train teachers preparing parents and providing Tech solutions for schools Nationwide, its citizen Verizon and action our plan for economic environmental and social advancement.

1 (40s):
Soon after I heard the news on Friday, I biked over to the Supreme Court but in take my recording gear with me, but I could tell you exactly what it sounded like out there. There was a Brisk September Breeze and occasional car driving by and crickets. When I got to the court around 8:00, there were a few dozen people there. Some people my age some people my parents age some kids some people with dogs. Everyone was silent and the crowd kept growing people were showing up by foot on bikes and Ubers and lyft's they had candles flowers signs.

1 (1m 22s):
A lot of them came empty-handed by nine o'clock. There were hundreds of people out there still. Still just the wind the cars the Crickets we were there to stare at the building where Ruth Bader Ginsburg once worked everyone knew there'd be a fight to replace her ahead in the weeks before a presidential election. That's already a hot mess. But on Friday, we needed a moment to think about rbg's Life and Legacy and that's what we're going to do on the show. Today. We're going to talk about why the second woman to serve on the Supreme. Supreme Court of the United States means so much to so many because there's so much to celebrate like the juvenile her nickname.

1 (2m 10s):
It's a goodie.

2 (2m 11s):
So her nickname in probably is kicky because she was a very key baby Cookie, but also like was a cheerleader who would have

1 (2m 20s):
expected Dahlia lipoic writes about the Supreme Court for slate. She covered RBG for 20

2 (2m 26s):
years. She was born to new Parents Jewish Brooklyn. She loved books. She loved music. Her mother was a pretty rabid on the one hand feminist in that sort of Proto sense and that she admired really strong independent women. She was just the quintessential good girl who was given the sort of dueling advice by her mother. From infancy on the one hand, her mother would tell her be independent and also be a

3 (3m 5s):
lady

2 (3m 10s):
be independent man stand on your own feet. I don't think it meant don't get married it certainly meant, you know, Mariah dentist, then, you know have a good home. But it also really meant have the wherewithal to take care of yourself. And then at the same time be a lady little ruse coded as Be dignified be decorous swallow your feelings never show anger be in control at all times. And those were the stars by which she has steered her ship all her life and it's ironic to me that she's viewed. Now. Is this badass because I think she approached be a lady as seriously throughout her career as be independent.

1 (4m 0s):
So when exactly does she discover the law,

2 (4m 4s):
I think what happened was for one thing. She was very much a product of ingrained Jewish social justice. So there was a lot of volunteerism there was a lot of awareness of for instance refugees from the Holocaust being settled around her at a very young age. She was writing in her yearbook about the UN Charter and the magnet Carta and the bodies of law that protect human rights she came up even as a child acutely aware of the ways in which the law exists to protect the weak by Junior High School.

2 (4m 47s):
She was writing and thinking about that. She went to Cornell for college and I think she fell in love with the idea of Law, and then I think she applied to Harvard. Law School in part because I think she genuinely believed that the rule of law and law itself was the thing that was going to save America from McCarthyism from the Red Scare from attacks on journalists and minorities and she really felt in Her Bones that the guard rail against tyranny and autocracy was Come from the courts in the law.

2 (5m 32s):
And she I think also believes that that there's a uniquely American way in which that's accessible to everybody. I think she tells the story that her family was kind of like, yeah. Okay, if you have to go to law school, like go to law school, but just have a husband and at that point she was already married to Marty Ginsburg. So I think that there was a feeling she couldn't go too far off the rails because she'd secured the The husband piece of it and try it out how bad could it be? So I don't think that it was when she approached law school that she thought she was going to change the world, but I think she already had a deeply ingrained belief that law could change the world.

1 (6m 16s):
I mean we talked about this path of going to Cornell and then law school at Harvard and meeting a boy along the way which sounds very normal now, but how hard was this for her in the 1950s to pull

2 (6m 28s):
off? So she first of all already had given birth to her daughter her first child in 1955 in 56. She enrolls at Harvard where she is one of nine women in a class of 500 and folks should see the biopic on the basis of sex. If only to just get a sense of how completely insane that was. I mean what it felt like and there's this famous scene in the movie The then Dean of the law school literally calls on the women in the class and

1 (7m 5s):
says ladies, let's go around the table and Report who you are and why you're occupying a place that could have gone to a man a

2 (7m 13s):
couple of the women in her class. Try to make a valiant effort to say, you know, kind of want to be a lawyer and she gives this sort of timorous response. I'm Ruth Bader Ginsburg. My husband is in the second year

1 (7m 25s):
class. And why are you here? Mrs. Ginsberg to learn more about his work? So I can be more

2 (7m 30s):
patient and understanding wife.

1 (7m 34s):
Was that her honest answer you think she wanted to kick ass because she

2 (7m 40s):
you know, again it goes back to this be a lady thing. Her mother had so conditioned her not to be a Barnstormer that she gave the socially appropriate answer. She was not a radical. She was really really scrupulous in the other thing just to add to the soup of how crazy in addition to having her daughter Jane in addition to being one of nine women in the starting. Class at a school that did not make her feel welcome. Her husband Marty was immediately diagnosed with cancer. She was doing all of his note-taking writing up his notes staying up all night keeping up with his coursework and her own course work when she was a law student and you know, basically just caring for and nursing him.

2 (8m 26s):
So she was doing to people's work raising a baby and being a 1l and I barely got through my first And the only thing I had to take care of was a plant and it died so she was

1 (8m 40s):
extraordinary. So what does she start doing when she gets out of law school? How does she start kicking ass in the legal

2 (8m 48s):
field? Well, she kind of can't for a long time. She can't even get a clerkship despite where she graduates in her class, you know, there are famous liberal Lions, even at the Supreme Court who are like liberal lions in every sense, except they won't have a female Clerk and it's one of the reasons she drifts into Academia. She ends up teaching largely because she can't get up. Seriously job and then she ends up kind of falling into teaching gender discrimination not because again, she's a fire breather. But because she kind of knows some stuff about it and the students asked her to put together a course eventually becomes the director of the women's rights project at the ACLU in the 1970s.

2 (9m 39s):
And essentially she thinks of herself as kind of a an ambassador between the idea of women's equal rights equal pay and the men who occupy the federal bench that she's going to have to argue too and she comes up with this sort of Genius strategy where she says I can't stand in front of these men and tell them it's unfair to women to pay them less or it's unfair to women to have presumptions about their role as caregivers and mothers and nurturers. So I'm going to find

3 (10m 13s):
N

2 (10m 17s):
who suffer as a result of all the statutes that put women into that role and I'm going to bring cases to the course on behalf of these men and it starts with this case that's depicted in on the basis of sex called Moritz versus commissioner. She finds a client who has been a full-time caregiver for his sick mom and the guy tries to get a tax deduction in 1968 for caring for his mom. The government says you can't have that deduction because you're a single guy you never married. The deduction is only limited to women widowers or divorcees or a husband.

2 (10m 58s):
Whose wife can't be a caregiver. So basically this is a guy who gives up work to care for his mom. He gets whacked by the tax Court's ironically the person who finds this case is Marty Ginsburg her husband a tax attorney. she goes He argues at the 10th circuit that this is crazy that all the presumptions baked into the tax code about women as dependent and women as caregivers and men as being Breadwinners are literally killing Charles Morris who just wants his deduction and the argument, you know prevails and this becomes the spine of a years-long sort of meticulous assault on statutes that treat women differently from

3 (11m 43s):
amen

2 (11m 47s):
But the thing that gets lost in the shuffle is she had to find the man who suffers for the judges at the 10th circuit to be like, huh? Well, that doesn't seem fair at all. And I think that she really viewed her role at that time as being a kind of a very incremental translator of values to men. She described some of her first arguments even at the US Supreme Court where she won almost all her case. Is as I just had to explain I had to explain and explain to these men and make them understand. It's the polar opposite of bomb-throwing. It's closer to kindergarten teacher in some ways than it is to feminist icon.

2 (12m 33s):
But she built up over years and years these attacks on all of these different statutes that made assumptions about women being at home and Men working and then ironically when she is up for confirmation at the US Supreme Court the feminist movement turns on her and says, where's the fire? She almost didn't get confirmed to the US Supreme Court not because of opposition from the right but opposition from the left who felt that she was way too much of an institutionalist in all her years on the DC Circuit Court of Appeal her closest friends where Antonin Scalia and Robert Bork.

2 (13m 16s):
So the attacks on Ruth Bader Ginsburg not that long ago came from people who felt like she was too conservative small C to boring that she set her sights too low and again ironic in light of the way we see her today, you know, when we all wear the dissent caller earrings and the RBG tote bags out. She was cut from absolutely the cloths of get along and Don't Rock the Boat.

1 (13m 52s):
After the break regular Ruth Bader Ginsburg becomes the notorious RBG, I'm Jean Rama's Fermat's today explained. Support for the show today comes from Ernest Ernest wants to help you refinance your student loan debt. They can lower your monthly payment and help you get some relief. You can see your new rate and just a few minutes with Ernest. All you need to do is answer a couple of questions online and you'll get a personalized rate estimate without putting a ding on your credit score.

1 (14m 40s):
And because today's interest rates are so low or Earnest can help most people lower their monthly payments even as they Already refinance. So if you want to give it a shot right now, you can get $100 cash bonus when you refinance a student loan with Ernest.com explained. Once again, that's Ernest.com / explained for more details. Here are some legal details for you terms and conditions apply Earnest student loan refinance loans are made by Ernest operations, LLC and MLS number 120. 4917, California financing law license number 605 Five four seven eight. That's 303 Second Street Suite 401 North San Francisco, California nine 4107 visit Ernest.com licenses for a full list of licensed States.

1 (15m 42s):
Support for today's show comes from the fair gun. If you've got some sore muscles some aching muscles. The fair gun has signature power amplitude and Effectiveness. That might help maybe the person in your life Who currently tries to relieve your sore muscles and aches doesn't have signature power. Our amplitude and Effectiveness. That's what their guns for. It also has an OLED screen. It also has a personalised Aragon app and it has the client power you've been longing for you can start out with the Thera gun Jen for today. It costs one hundred and $99 and you can find it at bergen.com / explain the all-new Jenn forth their gun has a proprietary.

1 (16m 32s):
Brushless motor that's so quiet. You will wonder if it's on you will look at that OLED screen and be like you up and they'll be like, yeah, and I'm here to soothe you. Diet, how does Ruth Bader Ginsburg go from being someone feminists are even comfortable supporting to being you know, the Paragon of feminism this happens while she's on the Supreme

2 (17m 2s):
Court. It's interesting. I think for the first chunk of her time on the court. She remains I think Cass sunstein has called it a rational minimalist. I think she really is incremental. Institutional she was not writing fiery descent. She was not reading the sense From the Bench. She was really a sort of white glove lady for most of her initial tenure there. It's important I think to understand that she had a partner in crime she had for the first part of her career Sandra Day O'Connor and she actually has often said it wasn't until O'Connor well, Left in 2006 that she realized.

2 (17m 52s):
In some sense what it was to be the only woman at the court because she's never been the only woman at the court and I think partly as a result of O'Connor leaving partly after O'Connor left was replaced by Sam Alito the court started to drift quite dramatically to the right and then she started to find her voice and there's a lot of theories about why often carbon dated to a strip search. Case where she was at that point the only woman on the bench and the issue was whether high schooler in Arizona had been stripped searched for drugs had had an illegal search and some of her colleagues on the bench were like ha ha this is Rip Snortin funny, you know Justice Breyer made some joke Justice Roberts was kind of cracking wise and Scalia was cracking wise and there was just this sort of Porky's feeling about the whole argument and a lot of us who were covering.

2 (18m 51s):
That day watched Ginsburg kind of get whiter and whiter. She's pretty white to begin with but she just checked the humor and then she did something she never does which is she gave an interview to Joan Boyce cubic while the case was pending just saying like this is not funny and I think if there were more women on the court that wouldn't have gone down that way and a lot of particularly the women journalists watching. We're really struck by how arresting The change in her was and around that time. She really did start to find her voice start to say out loud the things that maybe the voice of her mom in her head had told her to Tamp down over the years and that's when she started writing dissents.

2 (19m 38s):
You know, she started writing in the there was a Walmart class action case about you know, how women workers at Walmart were treated the Lilly Ledbetter Fair pay case about, you know, a woman facing just Pay discrimination Hobby Lobby. There was just a whole run of cases in which she started writing defense the subtext of which was you just don't get it. You don't understand what it's like to be a woman in the world and have people grab you you don't understand what it's like to be a woman in the world and not be able to ask am I getting paid less than men. You don't understand what it's like to be a woman seeking to have contraception and being told that your employer's religious beliefs.

2 (20m 21s):
Clue that she stepped into this role quite late in her career, but she stepped in with total Gus. So and the sort of cult of RBG that followed was you know, in some ways calling from some of those descent sculling from the language. He used on the bench the ways in which she felt as though all these years of being mild and not rocking the boat and here I am and I'm still having To say this stuff that becomes the blueprint for you know, the notorious RBG Meme and for you know, the tote bags and the books and the Halloween costumes that follow but it is interesting.

2 (21m 6s):
It's almost as though after decades and decades and Decades of seeing herself in the role of sort of Ambassador and translator between men and women and the law she suddenly just kind of flung up her hands in her own. Gentle way she never yells. She never loses it but flung up her hands and said like I can't believe I'm still doing this stuff. I was doing in the 1970s and that's how I think the sort of myth the legend the icon is born. Yeah. I mean,

1 (21m 38s):
yeah her career her story. It is the stuff of American mythology the adversity. Is there all the way through the overcoming of that adversity. Is there all the way through its storybook stuff except Maybe for the ending. Well, whatever comes of this fight to replace RBG also be part of her Legacy. If it doesn't go her way.

2 (22m 1s):
I mean, I think nobody says that Thurgood Marshall's Legacy was that he was replaced by Clarence Thomas Thurgood Marshall is respected on the merits of the change. He effectuated that nobody else could have done and that he did in ways that are enduring but I think that it's probably really the best sort of honor to her to kind of Judge her on her own merits and that is for absolutely extraordinary path-breaking career and not a single decision that she could have made differently in a different time not knowing all the facts that we know. I just think that would be a really regrettable decision this serving what she has really given.

1 (22m 49s):
What went through your head on Friday night when you got the news that she'd pass

2 (22m 52s):
tell you. You know, it's funny because we were all aware that this was the fifth bout of cancer. She'd had such a tough spring. She'd been in and out of hospitals having procedures had this Stanton. So you'd think everyone would be ready but it was just a punch in the neck. I mean, it was just a flat-out breathtaking. I I actually had turned everything off. It was Jewish New Year. I'd cooked like a 17 course dinner. And so the phone was blowing up and I was ignoring it. And in fact, my son ran into my study and turned it off because it was driving us crazy. So I actually didn't hear when everyone else heard.

2 (23m 34s):
I heard a little bit after when I finally check my phone but I was you know, it's ridiculous that we all thought she's going to live till like 20 57 in light of what we all knew. Yeah, but I really think that because she's He's such an emblem of toughness and survival. I guess I just didn't really feel like this would ever end.

1 (24m 3s):
Yeah. Yeah, and I mean by the time you checked your phone. I imagine you were already getting the news alongside the fact that she had passed that Mitch McConnell was gonna waste no time to replace her despite her dying wish being that Mitch McConnell wait to replace her. That just salt on the wound.

2 (24m 26s):
I remember this from Justice scalia's death in February of 2016 that within 40 seconds of hearing the news. We were in a political fight and and whatever you think of Justice Scalia, whatever you think of Justice Ginsburg. It's so sad that were immediately lacing on the gloves getting ready to Pummel each other because I think both of them deserve more than that. There's this weird. McCabe fighting now about how soon she can be buried because then it's appropriate once she's buried we can we can name her replacement and I find every piece of that gross.

2 (25m 6s):
I guess I could wish we could just have a minute to like feel the whole the Ginsburg shaped hole in the world and experience that and think about what it means but I guess those days are not with us anymore.

1 (25m 20s):
Well, that's why I'm talking to you right now W, so so here's our moment, right? What do we tell people to focus on the fight is coming the fight will last for weeks. If not months. What should we think about in this moment when it's still fresh when this loss is still Fresh

2 (25m 35s):
So I've given that a lot of thought and I feel as though one of the things I've written a bunch of times and said over and over and in fact a big article, I wrote for a sort of collected series about Justice Ginsburg that she she loved is. This tension between the rock chick rvg, you know, notorious badass Persona that everyone fell in love with including me by the way, but the how distant that was from the reality of how she lived her life how she built her career how she actually effectuated constitutional change.

2 (26m 19s):
I mean, she was really the polar opposite of a burn. All down either take no prisoners to the ramparts, you know Screw the enemy. She just wasn't that way and I think the one filament of that that everybody does know is you know that her dearest friend on the court was Antonin Scalia despite the fact that they disagreed on everything but it wasn't just Scalia. I mean she talks so fondly of Justice Kennedy of John Roberts. She was really quick to tuck fondly of Brett Kavanaugh, and I think that's valuable. It seems as though No, I know in a time where I'm the first person to stick my fist in the air and say let's fight.

2 (26m 59s):
I've no patience for explaining just to realize her entire career as a litigator and even at the end of her career as a badass jurist was it was about explaining it was just about trying to both asked for people to be empathetic and compassionate about what they didn't know but also trying to patiently understand what She didn't know and what she should know and I guess I just feel like I don't want to get so lost in the hagiography of her as this. I think she used to call yourself a fierce feminist, you know the kind of woman that we put on the Handbags and on the tote bags and on the mugs, I don't want lost in that to be how much patience she had four process and For reason and for discourse and for civility, and maybe it's old-fashioned, but I really want to give it to do right now because we're about to enter to the ramparts moment at which the other side must die.

2 (28m 10s):
And that was just not how she

3 (28m 12s):
rolled.

1 (28m 19s):
Could you encapsulate what it means to lead a meaningful life for you to put it simply it means

2 (28m 30s):
doing something

1 (28m 31s):
outside yourself? I tell the law

3 (28m 37s):
students

1 (28m 40s):
I addressed now and then if you're going to be a lawyer and just practice your profession. Well, you have a skill. So we're very much like a plumber. But if you want to be a true professional you will do something outside yourself something to repair tears in your community something to make life a little better for people less fortunate than you. That's what I think a meaningful life is one lives not just for oneself, but for one's community.

1 (29m 30s):
Dolly elliptic is the host of the Amicus podcast. It's late right now at the top of that shows feed. You'll find an interview Dahlia did with Justice Ginsburg in January of this year. Dolly told me it was a great interview, but Justice Ginsburg hardly once made eye contact with her dolly could have been a plant or wallpaper in the room the judge. This was instead throughout the interview laser focused on dahlias producer a young woman named Molly Olmstead and Dalia said that was consistent with the other times. She'd been around Justice Ginsburg. The Justice would always find the young women in her audience the young women in the crowd and look at them connect with them because in them she saw her Legacy Justice Ginsburg was always trying to build the future.

1 (30m 22s):
She To see in the world she built the scaffolding, but she knew the young women out there would continue the

3 (30m 29s):
work.

2 (31m 13s):
Consumers for safe CBD wants to know what's in your CBD in a recent report to Congress the FDA found that a sampling of CBD products. They tested were mislabeled some of them contains more than 120 percent of the CBD amount listed ends nearly 20 products contained th see the ingredient that can cause psychoactive effects as well consumers for safe. CBD is calling on the FDA to regulate the CBD Market to protect consumers from To harms posed by untested products though. The FDA has issued warnings. This is not deterred some vendors for making sweeping Health claims about their products ability to treat a wide range of serious medical conditions.

2 (31m 56s):
Remember just because CBD products are on grocery store shelves does not mean they're risk-free be smart and stay healthy learn more about consumers for safe CBD at for safe. CBD dot-org. That's the number four. Or sa Fe CBD dot o-- r-- g-- hi, I'm Avery troubleman. And I'm the new host of the cut podcast from New York Magazine and the VOX media podcast

1 (32m 24s):
Network

2 (32m 26s):
every Wednesday the cut editorial team and I will explore surprising provocative ideas about style

1 (32m 33s):
self culture and Power

2 (32m 36s):
in our first episode. We're looking at what it

1 (32m 38s):
means to be optimistic in 2020. You can listen and subscribe to the cut now on Apple podcast or wherever you listen.