2 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from Rise.com. It's that all-in-one system that makes online training easy to create enjoyable to take and simple to manage in the truth of the matter is that you're going to love rise.com you're gonna ask rise.com if it wants to come to the grocery store with you you're going to ask rise.com if it wants to take a safe evening stroll and Rise dot-coms going to be like yeah sure, but let's not forget our masks. We should be considerate in this difficult time. See why you will love Rise by starting a free 30-day trial at rise. calms

3 (31s):
today Hello. Hey Mom.

2 (38s):
Hi, how you doing?

3 (40s):
Good

2 (41s):
I have amazing news. Today is the 600th episode of today explained.

3 (49s):
Wow, Sean. Pretty cool. Huh? Yeah time

2 (53s):
ties time flies. It was just you know, February 2018. We were making episode 1

3 (1m 0s):
and I know it's like yesterday

2 (1m 3s):
and now we're in the 17th. The 2020 and it's Episode

3 (1m 7s):
600 congratulations, babe.

2 (1m 10s):
So we reached out online to ask people what they wanted to hear today and a bunch of people asked to hear from you.

3 (1m 16s):
Oh my gosh

2 (1m 18s):
other people were like play free bird and then other people said, please do anything but covid and protests

3 (1m 24s):
Huntington

2 (1m 25s):
you want us to do something about Hamilton.

3 (1m 30s):
Talking about

2 (1m 30s):
it. But there is Big pandemic news today Mom.

3 (1m 34s):
I know the fact the week is pandemic. So what shall we do about the pandemic

2 (1m 40s):
scientists are asking the who to stress how the virus lingers in the air?

3 (1m 45s):
Oh, yes. I heard about it yesterday.

2 (1m 49s):
So you'll listen.

3 (1m 50s):
Yeah

2 (1m 56s):
posted last week

3 (1m 58s):
now I did listen to now. Thanks Mom.

2 (2m 10s):
It's been a rough week for the World Health Organization. And it's only Tuesday this afternoon President Trump officially withdrew the United States from the who the United States is a reminder is its biggest funder and this is the middle of a global pandemic. This change doesn't take effect until July 20 21. You know, if someone like Joe Biden wins the presidency he could for sure reverse the decision, but still not a great day for The Who and this comes after a bunch of scientists published a letter calling the who out yesterday

1 (2m 44s):
hundreds of scientists are calling for the World Health Organization to revise its recommendations on the novel coronavirus saying that there is evidence that the disease is Airborne

2 (2m 55s):
Airborne. I know you know we know but The who in July 20 20 is still downplaying the fact that this thing is lingering in the air in an open letter to the agency 239

1 (3m 10s):
scientists from 32 countries outlined evidence showing that smaller particles, which can glide the length of a room can still infect people

2 (3m 20s):
Jose Luis Jimenez is one of the scientists who signed this letter to the who

1 (3m 25s):
well not only a sign it was one of the people who helped

2 (3m 27s):
righted is a chemistry professor. Sir at the University of Colorado Boulder and he's going to try and help us understand why the who would resist saying something so many of us already know we started with the letter and why you wrote it.

1 (3m 42s):
Well, I started working with a group of scientists and we were concerned about the fact that we thought covid-19 may be partially being transmitted through our souls. So we reached out to the World Health Organization and we had a telephone with them and we exchanged several. Letters and we were surprised to find that they were very resistant to this idea who spokesman tarek to tsarevitch told Reuters that the agency is aware of the article and is reviewing its contents with its technical

2 (4m 13s):
experts. So what exactly is the W8 Rose position right now,

1 (4m 18s):
their position is that transmission through aerosols can happen in a hospital during intubation when they are connecting someone to a ventilator and the Personnel that are doing that procedure could get infected so Say that can happen but they say outside of that situation is very very very unlikely. So it's not something really we should worry about or we should

2 (4m 37s):
protect against so what is it that you and your 238 fellow scientists have signed on to what exactly are you hoping the who will start to share with people?

1 (4m 49s):
Well, hoping that the change that our guidance and accept that outer shell transmission may actually be playing a role and at the end we're hoping really is that we can be more effective at at stopping the growth of the pandemic

2 (5m 5s):
So it does appear that there's a lot of confusion about these aerosols. So let's just clear it all up. What exactly are they and how are they

3 (5m 12s):
spreading?

1 (5m 15s):
So I don't suppose had a small particles that are suspended in air and the other songs that we are concerned here are the respiratory our souls. So when we breathe is known since the 1940s that when you breathe there are particles that are coming out that didn't come in as particles are actually little pieces of yours. That's very fluid that when the air is rushing out of you. It takes a little part of the fluid does lining your respiratory system and it comes out as a small particle was or as many small particles now is there is a virus that's infecting. The UN is on the surface of your respiratory system those particles that come out and carry a virus now the difference between the aerosols and what the who course the droplets is that the droplets fall to the ground very quickly like if you were sticking sand.

1 (6m 2s):
And then there is no longer a concern the other source on behave that way they are small enough that they stained ER maybe minutes maybe hours and then if you are in the same room with someone who's you know is producing is maybe talking singing is is examining some of these particles and then you breathe them in some of them may be logged into your respiratory system and cause infection.

2 (6m 28s):
So the aerosols are not the droplets. They're their own thing. They're Airborne particles that linger in the air do they linger if you're indoors Outdoors both

1 (6m 39s):
so the terminology is very confusing another stolen a droplet are the same thing that used bigger and smaller. So so here I'm using droplet in the way the who uses droplets when they talk about droplet transmission is

2 (6m 54s):
important. Those are the kinds of things you can see. Is that fair. Yeah.

1 (6m 58s):
Yeah, so they say if you can't find your sneeze and then you see some droplets coming out that does have the droplets. Now. The other cells are also coming out but they are

2 (7m 6s):
too small to see okay, but it is more of a problem indoors than Outdoors. Is that fair?

1 (7m 12s):
Yes. Yes, and this is something very important we think is so we believe one of the reasons that the who has not been too keen on recognizing Airborne transmission is because they fear panic in the mind of a lot of people in in America. Profession when they hear are warm, they hear like missiles or like chicken pox and these services that if they find a population that nobody has is vaccinated is not immunized they spread like wildfire. So then they are afraid that if people here are covid-19 is Airborne they will think or covid-19 is like missiles and it's not like that covid-19. We believe is contagious through the air but is nowhere near as contagious as missiles.

1 (7m 54s):
You need to help it along. So, how can you help? Increase the chance of infection while you can be indoors in a crowded location with low ventilation for a long time when there is loud talking or singing and without wearing masks every single one of those things increases the concentration of respiratory particles that are in the room or increases how many you may breathe in and increases the chance of infection

2 (8m 17s):
other really good examples where covid-19 really spread through aerosol transmission. Yes. There is a number

1 (8m 26s):
of outbreaks that have been studied and We have written up that submitted for publication about the sky get choir event in Washington State. So this was in March 10th. Now this was early on in the coronavirus crisis. So large groups were still permitted, but they did all the things that they were told to do. They wash their hands. They stayed away from each other. We greeted everybody the door was hand sanitizer. Nobody did any Shake hand shaking or hugging on it's known that there was one person that was infected to begin with but another 50 to God in a two-and-a-half-hour rehearsal and it's basically impossible to explain if it's not going through the air because there is people who were 60 70 feet away from this person.

1 (9m 12s):
We still got sick and people got sick all over the room. There's no other way that it could have gotten spread except by aerosol from us breathing in and out and saying does the case I know best but there is another case that has been in the news a lot about the restaurant in gwangju, which is pretty clear that it has to have gone through the air

2 (9m 32s):
a new study says on January 23rd. The day Wuhan was locked down a family traveled from there to Guangzhou near Hong. Kong the following day, they ate at

1 (9m 41s):
a restaurant what happened in this restaurant is it didn't have much exchange over with the outdoor. So there was stagnant and they had some of these splitter conditioning units that were recirculating they are only through a part of this restaurant and they were people in other tables that did get infected even though they didn't touch any objects that in fact the person hostage they even talk to this person. So there was no chance that the droplets that this person was. Maybe meeting went to speaking with have impacted on

2 (10m 11s):
them less than two weeks later nine other people got the virus five who were not seated at their table some of the people who got sick were more than 15 feet

1 (10m 21s):
away. So the only explanation is that this had to have happened throughout our sauce and fortunately there was a camera basically a closed circuit camera that recorded the whole thing. So then it was easy to verify that indeed there was no contact. So this is why that case it's so valuable because we have very good information about what happened. So we are able to rule out alternative

2 (10m 43s):
explanations. Do we have any idea what percentage of these cases are coming from surfaces from Big droplets from smaller aerosols. Do we have any data yet after all this time?

1 (10m 57s):
Mmm. Not really we have guesses and I could give you my guesses, but they shouldn't but I mean, I think they the current understanding and it will vary with different scientists is that droplets are likely important? I also said likely important and surfaces may be less important. But that could change. I mean I would say we should defend against all three.

2 (11m 21s):
I wonder you know, the president made a big stinky tried to blame the who for the spread of covid-19. He said they mishandled this they didn't hold China accountable sufficiently. Was he right on some level that the who sort of made a mess of this pandemic and and could have handled it a lot better when I hear you talking about them perhaps holding back information about aerosols because they don't want to scare medical professionals. I think well, that's not their job is it I don't think and

1 (11m 53s):
I think we have been very clear internally like a group of scientist doesn't want to do anything that would harm the who as an organization we feel they're essential that they're getting an essential job and under very difficult circumstances. Costanza, so we definitely don't want to hurt them. In fact, we discuss our worst nightmare was that you know, President Trump would pick up a letter and use it to criticize The Who and we want to try to convince them to change the position because you realize how important their advice is for many countries and in narrower things of the science. They have been slow or they have been resistant. I mean not use with the aerosols but some other things like the asymptomatic transmission or things like that, but I don't think that has anything to do with China or has anything to do with politics.

1 (12m 40s):
I think it has to do with an organization that does trying to do something very difficult in very little time. And yes, I don't think there is anything evil nefarious or geopolitical conspiracies that have to do with any of this. More with Professor Jimenez after a

2 (13m 8s):
quick break. I'm Sean Rama's Forum. Its today explain. Support for the show today comes from Stitch fix their an online clothing retailer, but they do things a little differently, but I don't really need any more clothes. So I asked around and it turns out today explains engineer a female Shapiro needed some threats a theme it seemed checking in for Stitch fix.

2 (13m 53s):
I don't like to shop for clothes because I end up spending a lot of time picking out clothes that don't fit me right that don't really look good on And I wear them anyway, that's my life. So Stitch fix has this idea that you answer some survey questions on their website. They pick out the stuff for you. Send you a box of clothes in the mail. You try out what you like and you return the rest pay for what you keep and hey, they picked a really cool shirt for me. I gotta say I wouldn't have picked it out myself. But since someone else chose it for me. I like it. It's got a cool design a nice pattern. It's a nice comfy summer. Sure.

2 (14m 33s):
Shirt and I got to say I think the concept is Stitch fix is pretty cool answer some survey questions, which I did I told him about my love handles. I told him that pants never stay on my waist. I told him about all the awkward thoughts. I have a go and buy clothes and they did a nice job of picking out some clothes from me the try Stitch fix for yourself go to stitch fix.com / explain and you get 25% off right now when you keep everything in your fix that Stitch Fix.com explain for 25% off when you keep the things that they've fixed Stitch fix.com

3 (15m 9s):
explained.

2 (15m 18s):
Have you guys heard about the show reveal? It's a podcast that does investigative journalism. But in audio form we've talked about on the show before they are out with their most ambitious project ever right now. It's called American rehab. It's an eight-part serialized podcast in which they're gonna uncover an American solution to treating drug addiction work people.

1 (15m 44s):
Into rehab expecting treatment instead they're sent to work

2 (15m 49s):
at oil refineries that constructions sites and warehouses for no pay these rehabs have created an unpaid Shadow Workforce tens of thousands of people strong and reveal finds this all started with a secretive cult from the 1960s. It's got it all folks rehab Cults. It's a serial podcast. Listen to American rehab. By subscribing to reveal wherever you get your

3 (16m 18s):
podcast.

2 (16m 29s):
Professor Jimenez some of the countries staying safe and the rest of it is going to town and it's sort of unsurprising considering the lack of leadership. We have what should people be keeping in mind with the aerosols and the lingering covid in the air and what have you well people should adopt

1 (16m 47s):
how much they go out and all that depending where they are if I was in Texas right now in Arizona, I would be very careful even if the state wants. Reopened I would say to be at home as much as possible. If I was in one of the states that are doing a better job perhaps like in the Northeast maybe I would take a little fewer precautions, but in general what people have to do is to try to avoid or reduce being indoors away from home, especially if it's crowded especially there is no ventilation long time people talking or singing loudly and if there are no masks, you know, you still can go to the supermarket but wear your mask go there as quickly as possible and so on and then businesses or public organizations should be looking at their ventilation systems and see okay.

1 (17m 33s):
Is there some way that we can maybe install other filter or we can change how much are we get from outside or we can install some of these portable or HEPA filters that are very effective at filtering the virus and those are all things that are not necessarily expensive and that we can all do to reduce transmission. Because at the end, I mean people die, all these lockdowns of The Masks are an attack on my freedom. And what we've been saying is Well, you know what the real Attack of your own your freedom is is the virus so we can do these things that we think are going to be effective as reducing the spread of the virus does what's going to give us the

2 (18m 10s):
freedom? Let me ask you about a couple of real world situations people are encountering right now. I recently went to the dentist for the first time this year and I didn't really think about the elevator up to the dentist very much. If you get into an empty elevator, I wonder is there a risk there if someone was covid for example had sneezed in the elevator. I don't know five minutes before

1 (18m 33s):
or do they were talking in the elevator? There is some rest depends how well ventilated that that elevator is. I mean I what I would say is if you can, you know, just wait let those people go down and then call the elevator again. So this give give the are some time to be exchanged or save you can take Stars, you know and I think there is some risk but this is small the promise of you are doing this day in and day out and if you are going to places where people are not wearing masks and and instead of one minute in the elevator, you're staying three hours in a bar and people are shouting because the music is loud and and you know, just start accumulating some of these risk factors.

2 (19m 12s):
What about planes? I mean, there's there's news that some Airlines will now be flying once again at full capacity is that wildly? Responsible is that safe and should people be considering

1 (19m 23s):
it. I think it's irresponsible. I mean, I've been talking to some friends and family who have been flying and they said well Delta is keeping the middle sits empty and is being very strict with the mask policy and United is putting people in the middle seats guess which are line. I'm going to fly, you know, if I have to fly

2 (19m 41s):
Delta for the record had no part in sponsoring this

1 (19m 45s):
episode. Okay, but I mean

2 (19m 48s):
airplanes have

1 (19m 50s):
very good. Insulation systems and bereavement filters. So, you know, they're relatively safe, but the problem is if you are sitting next to someone who has covered and is and is breathing out this this respiratory viruses and then you're sitting next to them for a few hours. You could get it that way and there have been outbreaks of respiratory diseases in airplanes. Typically these outbreaks get people sick if the sick person is in one row the people who get sick all the ones in that row or one or two rows. In front or the back, right? So reducing density of people in the plane having the middle seats empty that does definitely a good idea and of course wearing masks and and enforcing that people wear masks

2 (20m 32s):
what I think appeal. I think I hear people constantly worried about with Airlines is is the recycled air the air is constantly just being reused is that true? There is a lot of

1 (20m 43s):
recycled air but my understanding from talking to other experts is that the it is recycled, but it goes through very good. Is ours hmm, you know, then those viruses are most likely being caught in the filters and they're not coming back.

2 (20m 57s):
Let's let's close out these scenarios with a trump rally. He's been doing those again. I stand before you today to declare the silent majority is stronger than ever before.

1 (21m 14s):
Yes, I actually run a model simulation of the Trump rally.

2 (21m 17s):
How'd it go? Well, it was it was getting

1 (21m 20s):
some contagion. I didn't before the Tulsa rally and then I I was getting some tens of people may get covid out of the rally but this was only through the arrow shows when really given that they were going to be in close contact and touching objects. They're probably be more from other routes, but then they were many many fewer people they are than they were anticipating so, you know, but but there are the having some news there have been some some This coming out of the rally. We have two new Trump campaign staffers assigned to Saturday's rally in Tulsa has tested positive for covid-19 overall at least 18 members on the ground in Oklahoma have tested positive.

2 (21m 57s):
So a trump rally is even riskier than an elevator or a plane because of proximity to aerosols and droplets but also because of touching stuff touching objects in the outset of this do we place too much emphasis on touching stuff? On surfaces at the expense of aerosols and droplets,

1 (22m 18s):
you know, it's hard to tell and I'm not an expert done on the surface is Mission that is what the CDC is saying now though. I mean they had the revised guidance as of a month ago or so. The CDC is saying that it is possible to get this R objects, but they don't think that's what dragon the pandemic you know, I will I personally keep watching my hands keep watching the groceries and everything in the same way. My mother-in-law lives lives next to us and she refers to - is the military police control, you know her life and tell her what she can do and not and so she was saying, oh, can I go to the dentist used to Hawaii a regular cleaning? And I said, you know, I don't think it's a good idea. That's something that can wait. I see said can I go to this doctor for some more serious health issue and I said, yes, you know, that's a small risk, but by the risk of not addressing that issue is more important.

1 (23m 7s):
I would say, you know, use try to minimize your exposure. You cannot make it 0 but I you know go early in the morning when they know not only people have been there if you can you know where you must can try to make it as quick as possible. Do all these things to reduce your risk, right?

2 (23m 23s):
It's really tough. I mean, what do you say to people who are maybe not making jokes like here in LA but really skeptical of the virus itself and then any of the recommended safety

1 (23m 37s):
procedures, I mean, it's difficult to convince people to see I mean, it's kind of like trying to convince people that climate change is real. There is people out there that there's nothing you can say

2 (23m 46s):
or do you find it frustrating? I

3 (23m 48s):
mean

2 (23m 51s):
you're dedicating all of your work and all your time to try to help people understand this virus. And in the meantime, they're like House parties and clubs and bars and beaches where people are just acting like this isn't happening.

1 (24m 4s):
Yeah. Yeah. I mean it is frustrating and you know, my wife shows me pictures of this party or that party and and my blood boils, but you know what a scientist Is what we can do is we can try to provide accurate information. So then you know politicians and others can give guidance that's credible. And you know, when they get questions, you know about the masks they can explain they can explain that why they need to be warned.

2 (24m 30s):
Well, thank you for your work and I hope you won't lose Faith.

1 (24m 36s):
Hopefully we'll come out of this and it won't take too long indeed.

2 (25m 12s):
No one would ever thought an entrenched Community like Hollywood could let someone come in and completely disrupt the content.

1 (25m 20s):
I'm Ronnie mullah, and I'm Peter Kafka and we are the host of a new season of Land of the Giants the Netflix

2 (25m 26s):
effect for exploring all things Netflix by talking to the people who started the company will get into their bruising battle with Blockbuster. There was 20 times larger than us, which is not a good place to be. Okay. So in many ways, I feel like so randomly lucky to have survived. Well look at Take that could have ended the company in hindsight. It was incredibly tone-deaf and it blew up in our faces as it should have and we'll talk about how Netflix took over our screens and how they plan to win the war for our

1 (25m 53s):
attention Land of the Giants the Netflix effect from recode and the VOX media podcast Network

2 (25m 58s):
first episode drops, June 23rd. Listen And subscribe on Apple podcast Spotify or wherever you get your pockets.