0 (1s):
Today explained Sean Ramas. From late last year, we brought you an episode with some huge news. Humanity had just hit a big milestone. According to estimates, there were, for the first time ever, 8 billion of us.

1 (14s):
We were only about 1 billion people 220 years ago or so, about 1800. Except that a really fast amount of growth in a fairly small period of time. This is really just the last 200 years that we've just boom, taken off the

0 (25s):
Way we have. And humanity is not slowing

2 (28s):
Down. By 2050, there's projected to be nearly 10 billion people

0 (32s):
Alive on the show. Today we're gonna ask how we're gonna feed 10 billion of us.

2 (38s):
Not only will we need to grow more food, we'll also need to do it with less land. We'll need to do it more efficiently because if we don't, we'll need to clear more and more land for agriculture.

0 (49s):
Lucky for us, there is a country where the future of food is already here v's. Kenny Terrell takes us there momentarily.

4 (1m 0s):
Today's parents are busier than ever, and managing the badness means getting things done no matter where you are. But it can be an awful lot to juggle. The Microsoft 365 app can help. It's like a portable problem. Slayer lost the grocery list on the way to the store. No worries. It's pinned to the top of your documents. No need to scroll. Your kid forgot about the permission slip for today's field trip scan, sign, and send it instantly. All in one app, no pen necessary. Download the free Microsoft 365 app today available for iOS and Android phones only.

5 (1m 38s):
This episode is brought to you by Betterment. Are you waiting for the perfect moment to invest your money? Turns out that perfect moment might not exist. Even experts agree that it's tough to time the market. Betterment gives you the tools you need to make an informed investing plan so that weather markets are up or down. You have a plan no matter what. Sign up and start investing in just a few minutes@betterment.com. That's B E T T E R M E N t.com. You'll thank you. Later. Investing involves risk of loss performance, not guaranteed

3 (2m 17s):
C Chow

6 (2m 21s):
Today.

0 (2m 26s):
Okay, so humanity is gonna be 10 billion big by 2050 or so. We've got deforestation driving climate change, making it harder to grow food. We've got some big, huge problems. Kenny, you've been searching for big, huge solutions, which brought you to the Netherlands, which seems like a small country to go searching for big solutions. Don't at me,

2 (2m 47s):
It's very small. It's a tiny country. It's about half the size of South Carolina, but it's become a global leader in agriculture.

7 (2m 56s):
Hmm. These greenhouses are in the southwestern section of the Netherlands, and they enable farmers to grow crops the year round.

2 (3m 3s):
They've really cracked the code on growing more food with less land

7 (3m 9s):
Farming under Glasss. Another example of Dutch ingenuity,

2 (3m 13s):
And in fact that's kind of their rallying cry, is grow twice as much food with half as many resources.

0 (3m 19s):
Wow. I thought they just grew like a bunch of flowers over there, like tulips and

2 (3m 23s):
Stuff. Oh, they do. I saw a lot of flowers, a lot of flower seeds. But they also grow a lot of fruits and vegetables, and they develop the technology that's used around the world to grow food more efficiently, but they're also doing it at home. The Netherlands grows 6% of Europe's food supply. Huh? With just 1% of Europe's farmland.

0 (3m 44s):
Very interesting. Okay. And I'm guessing you took a tour.

2 (3m 48s):
I

0 (3m 48s):
Did. Can you take us on a

2 (3m 50s):
Tour? I can

0 (3m 51s):
Take it away.

2 (3m 54s):
So it all starts with getting more food out of each seed planted in the ground, or in the case of the Netherlands planted in greenhouses. Okay. So the first place I went is called Seed Valley. It's a play on California's famous tech hub, Silicon Valley.

0 (4m 10s):
I've been,

2 (4m 11s):
But you know, instead of developing software and semiconductors, they are growing the seeds of the future. Nice. So the first place I wanna take you on the tour is Enza Zan, a seed genetics company.

8 (4m 24s):
So I'm Shva and I'm the global manager of cell technologies at biotech. At en,

2 (4m 31s):
Her company helps breed new varieties of fruit and vegetable seeds to be more productive and resistant to viruses. And a good example of what they do actually came up recently because of a new virus called tomato brown. Rugose fruit virus

0 (4m 46s):
Sounds kind of delicious.

8 (4m 47s):
This virus has, it's been destructive in the last five years in crops all across Europe, middle East, you know us in Mexico, many, many different places. So these are not even, you know, the farmers in Africa or Southeast Asia. These are large growers that if that virus gets into your greenhouse, have to wipe out everything.

0 (5m 9s):
Okay. So it sounds totally

2 (5m 10s):
Awful. It is. And so as this virus is ravaging tomato crops around the world, Enzo Zan jumps into action and they do what farmers have been doing since the dawn of agriculture 10,000 years ago. They're breeding different varieties of crops with one another until they can eventually make one that can resist this virus.

8 (5m 31s):
We went into our gene bank, so that's where we keep all our jewels, let's say all our genetic jewels. Yeah. And said, okay, ease there some more wild material that is resistant to these virus.

2 (5m 41s):
So what's really impressive is that just a couple decades ago, it might have taken a company like Enza Zin 10 years to develop a new tomato variety that could resist this virus. Yeah. But today, thanks to a number of new technologies, they've cut that time in half half. They developed this new resistant variety in just five years. So one of these technologies is called marker assisted breeding, which is done by simply tearing off little pieces of a plant and quickly scanning its d n for a genetic marker that's associated with a particular trait that could be anything from the crops color to its texture, or its ability to resist a certain virus.

8 (6m 23s):
And then you can really test this gene and see if indeed gives that resistance. And what it does. Then you can indeed put a little flag, which you call a molecular marker, and then that molecular marker can actually be used during breeding to say, is the gene there? Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. No, no, no. And then when you test it with an infection, the yes corresponds to a resistance. The no corresponds to a disease. And that's how you start really making steps in knowing which gene can be that resistance.

2 (6m 55s):
So

0 (6m 55s):
It sounds like what they're doing at Enza Zin is sort of genetically engineering crops and and seeds. Is that

2 (7m 4s):
Right? Well, they're not exactly doing genetic engineering. They're doing conventional crop breeding, but using new technologies that just speed up the process.

0 (7m 14s):
Hmm. They're skipping steps.

2 (7m 15s):
They're skipping steps. They can much more quickly identify what in a plant might give it the trait that they're looking for.

0 (7m 23s):
Nice. And this is mostly, at least thus far, about beating viruses like the delicious but totally destructive tomato virus. You told me about. What about, let's say climate change. What about a warming planet? Right?

2 (7m 37s):
Yep. Climate change is just gonna make farming increasingly unpredictable and challenging. You know, for one, the geographic range of viruses and insects that kill crops, that geographic range is going to expand over time. But climate change will also mean more extreme weather events like floods, hurricanes, and droughts, which will destroy crops. In fact, when I was in Seed Valley, I met Han Vanderban and you focus on

9 (8m 8s):
Beans. Beans, yeah. Wow. Beans

2 (8m 10s):
Seed breeder with the company. Pop breed,

9 (8m 13s):
Snap beans. Snap beans. Yeah. No dry beans, but snap beans. Right,

2 (8m 16s):
Right. Okay.

9 (8m 16s):
That's, that's a different selection area. Dry beans compared to snap beans. Yeah.

2 (8m 22s):
He works on green beans. And he said that back in the late 1990s, farmers in Florida and Georgia started struggling to grow green beans because it was getting too hot.

9 (8m 33s):
Let's say on average, one plant can make 10 good faults per plant. But then what happens when you have a lot of flower abortion during, during the heat, you might end up with only two or three pots per plant.

2 (8m 47s):
So a few years ago, Gerth and his company came up with a new kind of heat resistant green

9 (8m 53s):
Beam. And now with the new genetics, they, they're able again, to get good yields out of the binge.

0 (9m 1s):
I mean, this does sound very nice, but it has me wondering, Kenny, how expensive this all is. I mean, a lot of countries grow food but can't afford the tech that you're talking about here. That's coming from like the Dutch, you know, Silicon Valley esque, seed Valley agricultural

2 (9m 19s):
Hub. That's right. These high tech seeds are commonly used in wealthy countries like the United States and throughout Europe, but they're much less likely to be used by farmers in poorer countries in the global south, where they're arguably most needed. And where crop yields tend to be much lower, and farmers have a harder time facing these viruses. And the main barrier is what you alluded to cost. You know, these expensive, high performing seeds that seed companies like Enza, Zan, and, and others in Seed Valley develop, they will drop and yield over time if they're saved and reused. Hmm. And so farmers have to buy new ones each year to keep those crop yields high.

2 (10m 1s):
And cost isn't the only factor. There's another issue for countries outside of, you know, the US and, and Europe. What

0 (10m 9s):
Is it?

2 (10m 9s):
There is just a huge mismatch between what, say a subsistence farmer in Ethiopia might need, and what big seed companies develop.

0 (10m 18s):
Oh, we're talking about the actual seeds here.

2 (10m 20s):
Right. So the seed industry, you know, it's highly consolidated. It's concentrated in Europe and the us and it focuses on high margin, internationally traded vegetables and fruits like cucumbers, tomatoes, you know, not the staple crops that so much of the global south relies on for calories like yucca sweet potatoes or millet to name just a few. And so the lack of resources devoted to developing new higher performing seeds for these crops, these staple crops, it's earned them the nickname orphan crops.

0 (10m 59s):
Wow. So sad.

2 (11m 0s):
It's really sad, Lisa.

11 (11m 3s):
I want some more.

2 (11m 5s):
Yeah. And it's especially unjust when you step back and consider that the global south is far less responsible for climate change, and yet they're going to suffer disproportionately from it.

0 (11m 23s):
Kenny, we've been talking about crops, and I know from a previous episode we made with you that you're big on vegetables, but there are still a lot of meat eaters out there. So if we're talking about the future of food, we probably need to talk about meat. Where's the beef?

2 (11m 38s):
Well, that's a big question in the Netherlands, and actually to be more specific, it's, where's the cheese?

0 (11m 43s):
Huh?

2 (11m 44s):
Yeah. The Netherlands is thinking a lot about the future of meat and dairy, and maybe more than any other country. And a lot of it, it boils down to their cows.

10 (11m 58s):
What do they call it? They call it royal with cheese. Royal with cheese. That's,

12 (12m 10s):
This episode is brought to you by United Airlines. What's new with United? Well, two new planes a week. That's what, but what does that mean? It means new and redesigned planes with things like larger overhead bins with room for everyone's roller bag, power outlets at every seat, screens at every seat, and the ability to connect your Bluetooth headphones to those screens. Plan your trip today@united.com, or on their award-winning app. This amount is an estimated average of current aircraft delivery schedules, final delivery schedule, subject to change.

13 (12m 39s):
This episode is brought to you by Amazon Prime. Whatever you're into with Amazon Prime, you can go deep. So if you're all about pop right now, you could watch pop documentaries on prime video, discover pop playlists on Amazon Music Prime. And if you're really serious, order a rhyming dictionary with fast free shipping from Prime, from shopping to streaming to saving. It's on prime. Visit amazon.com/prime to get more out of whatever you're into.

14 (13m 7s):
There are only two things I can't stand in this world. People who are intolerant of other people's cultures and the touch

0 (13m 16s):
Today explained Sean Ramer. I'm back with Kenny Terrell, and we are in our DC studio, but Kenny was recently in the Netherlands where they are not only pioneering technology related to agriculture and seeds, but also dairy related stuff. Kenny, tell me more.

2 (13m 32s):
That's right. Yeah. The Netherlands raises almost 4 million dairy cows. Cheese is a point of national pride in the country. Everywhere you go, really? There's huge wheels of cheese like the size of a Roomba. That's how I kept thinking about it.

10 (13m 47s):
Please charge

2 (13m 48s):
Roomba. And as a result of decades of government policy, you know, promoting agricultural efficiency above all else, the Netherlands now has the most densely concentrated livestock population in all of Europe. Huh? So there's 4 million cows, but there's also 11 million pigs and a hundred million chickens. And this is a lot for such a tiny country. How

0 (14m 10s):
Many people do they

2 (14m 11s):
Got? 17 million people. Huh?

0 (14m 13s):
So they're definitely outnumbered.

2 (14m 15s):
Far outnumbered.

0 (14m 16s):
Do they have room for all those animals?

2 (14m 18s):
No. In fact, there are too many animals. Huh. Livestock production account for about 15% of global greenhouse gas emissions. And beef and dairy in particular make up a big part of that. But it's not just about climate change. The dutch's huge livestock population has led to extremely high levels of nitrogen pollution.

0 (14m 40s):
But these are people with money, with agricultural tech hubs. They got solutions. What are they doing about their nitrogen problems and their spatial problems?

2 (14m 49s):
So far, the big solution has been radical policy change. Ooh. So the government and courts have been going after the production side of this, but success has been mixed. The states back to 2019, when the European Union's highest court ruled that the Netherlands nitrogen pollution levels were out of control. And a Dutch court agreed ultimately putting thousands of construction projects on hold, including new livestock farms, because most of the countries nitrogen was coming from its farms, its cow poop, its animal manure.

2 (15m 30s):
But that was just the beginning. Now the government is taking even more stringent steps to fix the problem. The first has been aiming to reduce the number of farmed animals in the country by a third, and it's willing to spend over 26 billion to pay farmers to either change their practices, to reduce the number of animals they have, or just to buy them out of their land altogether. I imagine these policies from the government would upset many a Dutch farmer. How is it going over? You're right. The whole thing has been incredibly polarizing.

16 (16m 10s):
Not an unusual site in the Netherlands these days. Tractors on the streets of the hake joining a protest.

2 (16m 17s):
And what that protest has looked like is pretty intense. Livestock farmers have jammed up highways with their tractors. They've set fire to manure in hay bales. They've even block hated access to supermarket distribution centers.

17 (16m 31s):
Open up the, we hope that the government will understand that the Netherlands can't exist without farmers. The Netherlands needs farmers. We are producing the most sustainable food worldwide. So without us, I don't know who will feed all these people.

2 (16m 47s):
You know, when I was in Amsterdam, I saw a number of upside down Dutch flags, which have been a symbol of protest against these regulations. Wow. Yeah. Sounds a little like capital insurrection adjacent. Kenny, even Donald Trump has taken up support for Dutch farmers. Our Donald Trump, our Donald Trump cares about Dutch farmers. He does. And

15 (17m 9s):
As we speak, farmers in the Netherlands of all places are courageously opposing the climate tyranny of the Dutch government. Can you believe this? Which wants to dramatically cut Dutch farm production despite growing food shortage that they're saying, you can't farm your land. We're not gonna give you fertilizer. You have to get rid of the cattle.

2 (17m 33s):
Some on the far right in the Netherlands have pushed this idea out with zero evidence, of course, that this is a plot by the government to take the land from Dutch farmers and use it to house immigrants.

15 (17m 48s):
Half of your cattle, they won out. You'll be next. You'll be next.

0 (17m 53s):
Wow. Sounds like a real red meat

2 (17m 55s):
Issue. Yeah. And pretty shortly after I left the Netherlands, a political party that was formed in part by those angry farmers. They shockingly won a lot of seats in provincial elections. So there's a great deal of political pushback to reducing nitrogen output there.

18 (18m 14s):
B B B, which was set up to challenge nitrogen pollution policies, took 15 of the 75 Senate seats. The ruling four party center Right Coalition of Prime Minister Mark Ruter lost eight seats. The result could curb the prime minister's ability to push reforms for the remainder of his term. Woo.

0 (18m 33s):
Are there any policies to fix this land scarcity, nitrogen pollution, too many cows and chickens issue that aren't so red meat that, that aren't worthy of Trump getting involved?

2 (18m 48s):
Yeah. So while the farmers are revolting and people have all sorts of feelings around telling farmers what to do, the Dutch have been surprisingly open to policies to shift what they eat. You know, the consumption side of things, not Oh yeah. The, not the production side. And that really took off in 2018 when an environmental advisory board to the Dutch government recommended that the country transitioned 20% of its protein intake from animal sources to plant-based sources by 2030. Huh. And ever since then, that recommendation has been making its way into local and national policy with pretty strong public support. Okay. So the first thing is simply just developing better meat and dairy alternatives.

2 (19m 32s):
You know, years ago, the world's first lab grown or cultivated hamburger, I don't know if you remember, the one that cost the price of a house is like $325,000. Oh,

0 (19m 44s):
I remember.

19 (19m 44s):
I was expecting the, the texture to be more soft. It's really a buy to it. It's close to meat. It's not that QC

2 (19m 54s):
That was created by a Dutch scientist back in 2013, a guy named Mark Post. Hmm. And now the Dutch government has invested 65 million into research to develop better alternatives. And they say more money is going to come. But that's not all. A lot of cities are getting involved in this. For example, the city of Harlem. Yes. It's called Harlem Band Meat advertisements and advertisements from other industries with high levels of pollution. Last month, the city of A, they launched a program to influence their 55,000 residents to eat more vegetarian meals. Hmm. And there's also a national push.

2 (20m 34s):
Last month, the Ministry of Agriculture in the Netherlands announced the goal that by 2030, they want to double the country's consumption of legumes like beans and lentils.

0 (20m 45s):
Interestingly here, Kenny, I asked you what is not upsetting Donald Trump, but I would imagine telling people to eat less meat would actually upset Donald Trump who loves his cheeseburgers. Could this ever work in a country like the United States

2 (21m 0s):
At this point in time? There's no way it could work in the US when there are even just whiffs of policy measures that might restrict or change meat production or consumption, people revolt.

0 (21m 13s):
Yeah.

2 (21m 14s):
But the Europeans are much more open-minded to these kinds of policies. You know, you see similar policies playing out in Denmark and the Netherlands, neighbor Germany, one poll found that around three quarters of the Dutch believe that they need to eat less meat and dairy. Hmm. So there's just much stronger public support. There's a lot more open-mindedness to changing how people eat across the pond.

0 (21m 39s):
Seems enviable.

2 (21m 41s):
Yeah. They're much more level-headed.

0 (21m 43s):
Okay. So things sound really idyllic in the Netherlands in Denmark. Good for them. Congratulations. Are they gonna use any of their money and seeds to benefit us on this dairy front? Do they have any technology that we could at least use, since we don't always have the best politics in this country?

2 (21m 59s):
Well, they're taking a lot of different approaches to reducing their nitrogen pollution. One of the flashier ones is the cow toilet.

0 (22m 11s):
The cow toilet.

2 (22m 13s):
Yes. The cow toilet.

0 (22m 14s):
Tell me more.

2 (22m 16s):
So I heard about the cow toilet from a guy named Case Deconning.

20 (22m 20s):
If you combine the faces and the urine, you put it together, you get ammonia.

2 (22m 26s):
He is a dairy veteran. He runs the Dairy campus, which is a big dairy research facility run by Vagan University in research.

20 (22m 36s):
If I can separate, you will get less ammonia. So the idea is to separate the, the faces and the Ewing

2 (22m 44s):
With the cow toilet. The cow enters a feed station after she's done gobbling down her feed a bucket rubs a nerve above her utter, that triggers a urinating reflex. She starts to pee the bucket catches all the urine. And that's important because that's where a lot of cows nitrogen comes from their urine.

0 (23m 6s):
Huh.

2 (23m 6s):
The urine is then stored in a tank, and the company that develops it called Hanscom says that this can catch about 50% of a mature dairy cow's urine throughout the day.

0 (23m 16s):
Amazing.

20 (23m 17s):
We have a lot of technology nowadays that can help a farmer to, to reduce ammonia emissions. Yeah.

0 (23m 26s):
I wonder, you know, you traveled halfway across the world to the Netherlands to see the future of food production. Now that you've seen it, how confident are you that we're gonna be able to feed 10 billion humans by, you know, the middle of the century on an even hotter planet?

2 (23m 48s):
Well, it gives me a lot of hope that the Netherlands, you know, such a tiny country can marshal its resources and become a global leader in agriculture. But it should also serve as a cautionary tale as to what happens when a country prizes efficiency above all else. You know, the fight that it's now having over livestock farming and pollution. It's really messy and difficult, but it's not going to be constrained just to the Netherlands. This fight is going to play out whether we like it or not, across the West in the coming decades, as we have to reckon with the high levels of pollution and global greenhouse gas emissions that come from our incredibly high meat and dairy heavy diets.

2 (24m 36s):
If you

0 (24m 36s):
Wanna make an omelet, you're gonna have to break some

2 (24m 38s):
Eggs. That's right. Hopefully they're artificial eggs so

0 (24m 41s):
That no, no animals were involved.

2 (24m 43s):
Yep. We'll see. Thankfully they

0 (24m 45s):
Sell those now at

2 (24m 46s):
The grocery store. They do.

0 (24m 57s):
Kenny Terrell, find his writing@vox.com. Kenny's also a musician. All the music you heard in today's show is his Finds music on Bandcamp. He goes by Terrell, t o R E L L O. Our program today was produced by Miles Brian. He had help from Matthew Collette and Laura Bullard and Paul Robert Mosey. The rest of the team here today explained includes Aviche Artsy Hai Ma Wadi, Fiona Petros, Pima Shaw, Amanda Lou Ellen, and Victoria Chamberlain. Our supervising producer is Amina aad. My co-host is Noel King, and we get lots of help from Jolie Myers and Patrick Boyd.

0 (25m 39s):
We are on the radio in partnership with W N yc, and we are part of the Vox Media Podcast Network.