2 (4s):
hey there while Friday's show was for kids Today's Show is not we're going to be talking about allegations of sexual misconduct and will begin after a quick message from sponsor support for the show today comes from netsuite netsuite is the world's number one Cloud business system that offers a clear Consolidated look at your financials cash flow payroll and inventory if those are things you want to clear look at right now you can get critical information right away no more guessing no more waiting receive a free guide managing business uncertainty and schedule a free product tour right now at netsuite.com explained that as n ETSU ite.com explained it can be easy to forget but there's still a presidential race happening somewhere in the background of this coronavirus crisis but for the past few weeks it's been a little more prominent than it has been in recent memory because of new allegations of sexual misconduct act against former Vice President Joe Biden and they come from a former Senate Aid of his named Tara Reid not the actress Laura McGann has been following the story for box for a while now

1 (1m 38s):
the story of Tara Reid took off in the last six weeks but it really started a year ago in April 20 19 we read came forward then to quite a number of reporters including me here at vaux to tell story about being sort of made uncomfortable in Joe Biden's office in the 90s when she was a senate Aid then and the story she told at the time was Joe Biden would put his hands on her shoulders touch her hair touch her neck and meetings and it made her feel uncomfortable and she complained about being asked by the staff to serve cocktails at a Razor for Biden someone in the office told her Biden said he liked her legs.

1 (2m 31s):
She said that when she complained she was sort of blamed and told don't dress how you're dressing dress more conservatively. And so she complained about those issues to the staff and she contends that once she complained. She had her responsibility stripped that she was treated badly and essentially forced out of the office and so She went home to California after being in Washington about nine months. There were quite a number of national reporters investigating her story. We know the Washington Post had reporters on it the New York Times that reporters on it and the Associated Press had reporters on it.

1 (3m 13s):
I was reporting on it at the same time a local paper was looking into it as well. It's a paper out west near where Atari lived a year ago and they kind of ran with just what? She had to say and her Anonymous friend had to say and they posted this story and it was criticized very rapidly by Biden supporters who said, you know, you didn't even talk to the Biden campaign. You didn't talk to anybody who worked in Biden's office at the time and then simultaneously the internet very quickly discovered that Tara Reid had written a series of blog posts about her affection for Vladimir Putin and her Action for Russia at the same time so it wasn't great for her.

2 (4m 1s):
So what happens between this initial story popping up in this local paper and being vetted by more National outlets and the story reappearing more recently

1 (4m 12s):
fast forward a year later and tar read comes forward again. And this time she appears on this podcast show called the K T helper show. Well the story starts when I went to work for Joe Biden that was her story on one level is the same she talks about being made to feel uncomfortable in the office and to be pushed out and they were finding fault

2 (4m 35s):
with my work all the time like every little thing

1 (4m 38s):
and it was almost to the point where three or four times a day there would be

2 (4m 41s):
something something something wrong and my mother I call my mom's one day and tears, you know, and she was like, you know, this is retaliation. They know that you want to file something

1 (4m 52s):
but she has his second allegation. That's more serious. Q's is Joe Biden of rape. She says that he sexually assaulted her on the capitol grounds in 1993. And this is

2 (5m 6s):
new it was like everything everything shattered and that moment because I knew like we were alone it was over right he wasn't trying to do anything more but it's I looked up to him. He was like my father's age. He was this champion of women's rights and eyes and I couldn't believe it was happening. It didn't see it seems her real and I know this is difficult to talk about but just to be clear here you're using the term rape and Tara Reid is accusing Joe Biden of I guess what's technically called digital penetration? And that counts legally as rape is that accurate?

1 (5m 47s):
That's the way that I'm using the term rape. So yes, and I think you can think of this. Says she's described this attack on Capitol Hill where he catches her off guard and hallway and he forces himself on her against her will and that's how she's described

2 (6m 3s):
it. Okay. Got it. Thanks for clarifying what happens after this Revelation on Katie helpers podcast

1 (6m 12s):
from there. The story is picked up by another kind of left-wing publication the intercept and they report the story as well. They have some sources saying she told them at the time including her brother and a few other sources, then the story really takes off when Business Insider starts publishing incremental updates to her story. They had a real Blockbuster interview with a former neighbor in the 90s who went on the record and said guess Tara Reid told me about this assault in 1995.

2 (6m 48s):
Okay. So the first time Tara Reid comes forward with some Things about Joe Biden is about a year ago, and it's more in the sort of harassment Arena and it's hard to corroborate within Biden's staff the second time which is last month. It's about being raped and she's got someone back in her story. Is that right?

1 (7m 11s):
Yes, that's exactly right. So one way to think about the Tara Reid story is to think of it as two

2 (7m 17s):
stories. What's the Biden campaign saying,

1 (7m 20s):
Joe Biden just did his first interview. You on the record on this subject last week on Morning Joe on MSNBC. Did you sexually assault Tara Reid? No, it is not true. I'm saying unequivocally it never never happened and it didn't never happened.

2 (7m 39s):
Where does that leave us? I mean Joe Biden has this reputation for being sort of like a touchy-feely guy, but this is obviously a vastly more severe allegation you've Open with Tara Reid recently as well as a year ago. What do you think? The truth is?

1 (7m 59s):
We can't really know what happened between two people in a hallway in 1993. We all we can do is assess claims things were of excessive credibility. What is hard in a case? Like this is I went back to my notes and I looked and a year ago. She was very clear that she wanted me to understand that this was not a story of sexual misconduct. We talked about it in our first conversation early April 2019 after a conversation. She sent me an essay that laid out the same idea that this was a story about an office retaliating against her and an office more willing to push out a twenty-something Aid than say to the senator.

1 (8m 49s):
Hey, can you stop putting your hand on her shoulder and Dang, it makes her uncomfortable and that to me is an important Story But Not only was it missing the allegation of sexual assault. It was brought to me and framed as not that so A year later when I talked to Tara and talk to her friend again and asked her about it. Tara was saying I wasn't ready to share my full story and I can see how for her. From her point of view. She's frustrated. She's talked to me about trauma and how people process trauma and talk about it and I'm very sympathetic to that.

1 (9m 37s):
It's tough in the media to think about how to establish the best set of facts that we can go on and it and when your main source changes her account, it's very hard.

2 (10m 5s):
more with Laura after a break You know when you're trying to pour your heart out all your feelings about this pandemic to a friend, but you can tell she just can't wait to get off the phone so that she can go be disappointed by that new Drake mixtape. Well, if you want to talk to someone who doesn't care for the Drake tape check out better help they offer licensed professional counselors who can help you connect with your counselor in a safe and private online environment anything you share is confidential so to get started.

2 (10m 50s):
All you do is fill out a questionnaire. Are help assess your needs and within 24 hours you get matched with a counselor and acted that you can easily schedule secure video or phone sessions and exchanged all sorts of messages get professional help when you want wherever you are better help is a truly affordable option. And today explain listeners get 10% off your first month with the discount code explained. So why not get started go to better help.com explain. That's better heelp.com / explain you can talk. To a therapist and get some help. You don't need me or netsuite to tell you that there is a lot of uncertainty in the world right now, but netsuite wants to help clarify some of that uncertainty at least with regard to your business.

2 (11m 40s):
It's the number one Cloud business system in the whole wide world that give you your financials your cash flow your payroll your inventory and more all in one place. So you got all the visibility and control of your business that you need with netsuite. You have the Its ability to work from anywhere with all that information right at your fingertips. So you don't have to guess you don't have to wait you can make smart decisions with confidence because you got all the numbers you got all the data over 20,000 companies apparently are already trusting netsuite to stay in control and make smarter decisions with confidence that comes from, you know, knowing your numbers with netsuite so receive your free guide managing business uncertainty and schedule a free product for right now at if sweet.com explain that is any t s uit e.com explained Laura I want to ask you some questions about how this has affected the Biden campaign.

2 (12m 47s):
Let's start with the fact that in the last debate between Vice President Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders the vice president made it clear that he will be selecting a woman to be his running mate for the presidency. Does this complicate that picture of him clearly being sort of an advocate for women?

1 (13m 7s):
I think that that's kind of what Democrats are asking themselves right now of which Biden is the Biden that he claims to be. He helped get the violence against women legislation passed huge. He was one of the few men male public figures during the Obama years to step forward when Millennial college women were saying, hey, there's a sexual assault problem on campuses and we need to do think about it and he supported that movement on the record and came forward and said men need to step up and then need to be part of it. And so when you hear a story like this and you're somebody who cares about these issues, it's going to affect some number of Voters politically in terms of the VP.

1 (13m 56s):
It does put a woman in a tough spot about what is her role in defending Joe Biden and it unfortunately female politicians are often. Put on the spot much more so than male politicians about well, what do you think about this story as if it's woman's responsibility to take on these issues and we've seen that already that disproportionately women have been asked about it and Stacey Abrams came out and defended him. There's been other prominent women who have said, I believe Joe Biden and it feels a little unfair that whoever his nominee is VP pick.

1 (14m 37s):
His going to be as a woman is probably going to have to answer questions about this in a way that maybe a male politician wouldn't I think his pick for a female VP is something that matters to Democrats who were disappointed that Hillary Clinton didn't become the first woman president. So I think it makes sense for him to try to cater to that demographic. But I think that it will affect whoever the VP pick is.

2 (15m 5s):
How was the party leadership handling this?

1 (15m 7s):
Yeah, I mean overall they've stood with Biden. I think that they've been trying to be sensitive and saying well we have to suss this out we have to you know, she deserves a fair hearing but the party is now pretty much coalescing around Biden the team that vetted Joe Biden in 2008 said we didn't find anything like this. This was not a pattern of behavior that we uncovered when we dug into him David Axelrod said the same he was involved in fighting Joe Biden. So when you see See the Obama alumni coming forward to support him. It's really a sign that the party is saying we stand with Biden and we believe him has

2 (15m 46s):
the president said anything about these allegations against Joe Biden,

1 (15m 50s):
of course, right? Like why would Donald Trump just say, you know what? I'm going to lay low on this instead. He rather snarkily kind of encouraged Joe Biden gotta fight this Joe like sort of lumping the two of them together and this is And Democrats have not wanted like they would like to run an upstanding character and like wanting to draw that clear contrast. Yeah, they don't want any kind of murky moment here of well. Our guy was only accused ones versus there's multiple times. It's now we're Democrats want to be there's been a lot of talk about this of a god. Like I don't want to be in a position of having to vote for somebody that maybe is guilty of the type of thing that the other guy is, but anytime the Donald Trump can move the conversation.

1 (16m 37s):
Ian away from his failed response to the pandemic away from the economic crisis. That's a good day for Donald Trump. And this campaign. The question is is it just preaching to the choir of people who are not going to vote for Joe Biden anyway, or does it affect voters who maybe would have stayed home or maybe would have flipped it's always hard with that because word of a question, but we are heading into the worst. In modern history at this point we are close to if not surpassed a hundred thousand Americans have died in a pandemic and I suspect that those issues are going to be what really matters to people.

2 (17m 24s):
I mean you wrote this case for Biden for vox.com. We had you on some months ago to talk about it and you thought when you wrote it before these allegations came out that he was the the candidate who could best get things done for the presidency and for down-ballot races as well. Do you still stand by that?

1 (17m 45s):
I do I wrote that for Democrats to to get anything done. They need the Senate and they need to hang on to the house and the candidates who've won in Trump districts over the last couple of years and special elections and during the midterms. Some of them only had one National Democrat comes For them whether that was Doug Jones down in Alabama or some of the candidates who picked up seats in Pennsylvania. They only had Joe Biden come they only wanted Joe Biden and they've now endorsed Joe Biden. So if you're a Democrat who wants to have an effective presidency, the people who have one Or democrats are going to need to win say Joe Biden is the best shot at that at the same time.

1 (18m 33s):
I did write a column a year ago critical and Biden about how he treats women in public the sort of handiness and why that matters and since then we haven't seen examples from him obviously in recent months. We've all been in quarantine, but he did give us short of half-hearted apology when women were coming forward and we saw his behavior change which did pardon me but I would say is going to matter how he continues to treat women and how he conducts himself. I think that will matter to a lot Of Voters it will matter so it is the question of how much is just unknowable at this point, but it's not helpful to him right now.

1 (19m 18s):
This is not the conversation he wants to have right now.

2 (19m 36s):
Lauren again is vaux's editorial director of politics. I'm Sean Ramos firm. This is today explained.