0 (1s):
10 Shoppers. Shoppers, there's a cleanup on every aisle. Target is targeting your kids.

1 (9s):
The top song on iTunes chart.net today is Boycott Target by MAGA rapper, four Giado Blow Feet. Nick, NATO and Stoney. Dude bro, target has aggrieved some conservative activist because June is pride month and the company is selling Pride Merchandise a thing it has done in order to make money for years, except previous years have not been 20, 23 a year in which Anheuser Busch's King of Beers Light got in trouble with Kid Rock and Travis Trit for partnering with trans influencer Dylan Mulvaney to sell beer a year in which Lego, Coles and PetSmart are also facing Boycott calls over their sales of pride related merch such as PetSmart's Pride, bikini for Dogs, and the Rainbow Lamb Chop Toy.

1 (53s):
It's all coming up on today. Explained

3 (1m 0s):
For today, explain. Today comes from Remotely Curious, a podcast from Dropbox. Remotely Curious focuses on the new world of work, whether in person, hybrid or remote, or as Dropbox calls it, virtual first. Cute. Each episode includes a conversation with an expert about topics like fashion, creativity, or being the new kid here from guests like podcaster, musician, Rishikesh, Hiway, fashion historian, Deidra Clemente, behavioral Scientist, Katie Milkman. And more new episodes are available right now. You can find, follow and listen too remotely curious wherever you get your podcasts,

1 (1m 42s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. Companies have been making money by selling pride merchandise for so many years that it's difficult to find answers to questions like, which company was first, what year did they do it in? This is just something that's done and it's 2023 and it is not that controversial, but it's 2023. And so of course it's controversial. Vox s Emily Stewart has been covering Target and Bud Light to companies that conservative activists have targeted recently. Emily, can you start with Target?

4 (2m 14s):
So a lot of the controversy really appeared to center around misinformation and a rumor that Target was selling tuck friendly bathing suits to children. So I found

5 (2m 23s):
An extra small swimsuit in the child section says light binding effect on it. And then the bottoms in the kids section keep in mind, say Tuck friendly construction, they're giving it to your kids.

4 (2m 39s):
This was not happening. These tuck friendly bathing suits were on sale in adult sizes. They were not being marketed for children. But as with so many things on the internet, the rumors started, rumor took off and that had people really worked up.

1 (2m 52s):
What is a tuck friendly bathing suit?

4 (2m 54s):
It's basically a bathing suit. So if you are a trans woman, it would help you kind of conceal your genitalia and offer more coverage.

1 (3m 1s):
Okay, so retail giant target headquartered in Minnesota is just, is not going to sell tuck friendly kids bathing suits. Like, I'm sorry, that's just not a thing that would happen. How did a rumor like that get started?

4 (3m 14s):
People are really kind of on the hunt for something to be mad about, specifically around trans issues. It doesn't take long for these things to take off. Like even before the calls for a boycott around Target started, like I started to see this rumor show up in my Twitter feed, right? Because it's somebody takes a picture and says, oh, you know, here is this tuck friendly bathing suit that I found in the Target children's section being marketed to kids. And that's really how this kind of took off, that there's one picture, there's a couple pictures going around and then people start to believe it. And I think the political context this year is quite different. You know, we've seen really a raft of anti-trans legislation across the country and many states laws

6 (3m 54s):
Covering everything from sports to education to healthcare access. So you're seeing bills that are being proposed or passed that would require teachers to out students to their parents bills that would prevent doctors from giving hormone therapy to trans youth legislation that would prevent trans youth from being on sports teams that align with their gender identity. So these,

4 (4m 20s):
And to be clear, they're, they're fired up about the t the trans issues

1 (4m 23s):
For a hint of, of what was gonna happen here. We could go back to early April when there was a freak out over Bud Light. Can you remind me what happened there?

4 (4m 34s):
So at the beginning of April, bud Light sent a handful of cans of beer to a trans influencer named Dylan Mulvaney as part of a pretty run-of-the-mill marketing campaign.

7 (4m 46s):
This month I celebrated my day 365 a womanhood and Bud Light sent me possibly the best gift ever a can with my face on it. Check out my Instagram story to see how you can enjoy March Madness with Bud Light and maybe win some money too. Love ya. Cheers. Go team. Whatever team you love, I love too. Okay,

4 (5m 9s):
That being said, this really, really picked up traction on the right. There was a huge amount of backlash with, you know, I remember back to April Kid Rock shot a bunch of cases of Bud Light.

8 (5m 22s):
Let me say something to all you and be as clear and concise as possible.

4 (5m 35s):
A country singer named Travis Trid said he was dropping Bud Light from his tour writer and there was a lot of backlash and there were calls for a boycott and it really, really, really took off. You know, I think that even I think back to early April, I kind of thought most boycotts don't really work. There is still a lot of anger at Bud Light. They have seen a dip in sales, how long this will last, who knows? But it has hurt the company and you know, the company didn't handle it super well either. They didn't really stick to their guns, they got a little bit nervous, started putting out statements saying that they love America. And so at this point everybody's mad at Bud Light, right? Like the Wright's mad at Bud Light and so are progressives who think that they kind of didn't stand up for their values.

4 (6m 19s):
When

9 (6m 20s):
Bigots are loudly announcing they don't like your beer because they are bigots, that is an opportunity for you to say then our beer is not for you.

4 (6m 29s):
The company took quite a, a bit of a hit and they're a little bit nervous. And so I think a lot of companies are probably a little bit nervous.

1 (6m 41s):
The Bud Light thing was kind of a win for activists. The company didn't handle it well, it, it appeared to Waffle. It ended up with two executives being either sidelined or taking some time off. And so it seems like the dust up over Bud Light and the way in which the company handled it led to a group of activists, conservative activists looking for more targets and then they found one

4 (7m 2s):
In Target. In Target, yes. So obviously that pun, but yeah, basically Target every year has a ton of pride merchandise, as do many retailers, and they started to roll out their pride merchandise in May, and the right was on the hunt for another corporation to go after. You know, I think seeing some of these activists, seeing the success that they had with Bud Light and they thought, oh we can probably do this again. Who is

1 (7m 30s):
The they here?

4 (7m 31s):
You know, I think you do see some people online, you know, big voices on, you know, on conservative Twitter and videos or whatever. But there are also customers showing up at Target stores and, and making a a mess. Earlier today I was watching a video of a man who walked into a target store filming himself and started to destroy some of the pride merchandise and some of the signage. There was another video of someone who'd gone into Target and was filming employees and kind of harassing them.

10 (8m 1s):
Hey, do you guys support the Satanic Pride propaganda? I I, yeah, both. You support it. Satan, Satan and Pride, you support Satan. What's God gonna think of that? I don't believe in God. Wow. Don't, so you think, did you need help with something? You

4 (8m 15s):
Support the problem. And so some of it is loud figures on the right, but some of it's customers that are showing up and harassing the stores and harassing the workers.

1 (8m 24s):
How does Target react? Like what does the company say publicly?

4 (8m 27s):
So on May 24th, target put out a statement saying that it would remove some items from its annual pride collection after it had experienced threats impacting our team members' sense of safety and the wellbeing while at work. They haven't been super open about what they are pulling and a lot of it has been them saying they're going to review what to leave out, you know, I imagine it's store by store, but you know, they're taking a look at it. And like I said, it's not like Pride, it's gone from Target and plenty of stores. This stuff is on display. It's certainly being prominently featured on their website, but they're scaling back a little bit.

1 (9m 2s):
How big a deal is pride for Target? I have not been in a Target for a long time, I just don't live near one. And I'm wondering, like once you're in the store, is it, is the pride stuff right at the front or do you have to go to the back where like they keep the wrapping paper during Christmas? Is, is it a point of pride? The Pride Merch,

4 (9m 20s):
I had a a a source go into a Target last week to kind of check stuff out and she said, you know, there, there really is pride stuff all over. There are shirts, there are toe bags, there are tarot cards. I it's also featured pretty prominently on the website. And I do think it's important to point out that pretty recently Target c e o Brian Cornell said on a podcast,

11 (9m 42s):
When your teams, your leadership represents the consumer you serve, I think good things happen. So I can see the benefits for our shareholders. I know that focus on diversity and inclusion and equity has fueled much of our growth over the last nine years.

4 (10m 0s):
Target hasn't really been hiding that they pull out this kind of merchandise and that they want to sell to this demographic and that, you know, they wanna sell rainbow stuff.

1 (10m 9s):
Do they cancel pride entirely or is it just we're pulling X, Y, and z?

4 (10m 14s):
Target still is doing pride, but they are pulling certain items.

12 (10m 20s):
The retailer removing L G B T Q brand at Proin from their stores and website whose products featured Satanic themes. Target also reportedly reviewing its adult collection of Tuck friendly swimsuits that allows trans people who have not had gender affirming operations to conceal their private parts.

4 (10m 40s):
And in the south, you know, there has been reporting that some of the stores have moved some of the Pride merchandise to the back so it's not as prominently featured. You know, conservatives almost seem surprised that that corporate pride is upon us. Once again,

1 (11m 4s):
That was Foxx's Emily Stewart coming up after the break.

4 (11m 7s):
Think about it for a moment. Is it weird that we expect corporations to take positions on social issues as opposed to just selling us stuff and making money that's ahead.

Canva (11m 36s):
Support for today? Explained comes from Canva for teams, Canva for Teams believes that great design is all around us. And as evidence, they cite the $1 bill, which was released in its current form in 1963 and hasn't changed since. Also Harry Beck's map of the London Underground system, which prioritized legibility over geographical accuracy. I don't know how that works, but apparently that's amazing. You may know by now that graphic design is my passion and if you wanna make great design easy, you might wanna check out Canva. For Teams, it is a design platform that makes it easy for anyone to create. What I'm told is stunning content. Whether you need to build a quality presentation or get your new website off the ground or make a perfect post across every social channel. Canva for Teams has you covered. Every feature is designed with brand consistency in mind, so you can maintain your aesthetic and use your bespoke logos and design language across everything that you build. If you wanna collaborate with Canva for teams right now, you can get a free 45 day extended trial. If you go to Canva me slash explained, that's Cava me slash explained for a free 45 day extended trial. Canva me slash explained.

Shopify (12m 47s):
This episode of Today Explained is brought to you by Shopify. You can buy almost anything online. I mean you can get almost anything online. You can like give away almost anything online. There's like that Facebook free stuff group or whatever where people are picking up like a half open container, a half-eaten container of peanuts. It's real out there Anyway, the point is that you can sell just about anything online and Shopify is a commerce platform helping millions of businesses do exactly that. Shopify isn't just for e-commerce, they can also make it simple to combine in-person business with your online sales. So you can put focus back on your company whether you wanna access social media marketplaces like TikTok or Facebook just mentioned and Instagram, or just lean into some great new tools that could help fuel your growth. You can sign up for $1 per month trial period at shopify.com/explain. You can go to shopify.com/explain to see if Shopify can take your business to the next level today. That is shopped by.com/explained

13 (13m 57s):
Today. Explained,

14 (14m 4s):
My name is Kyle Williams, I'm a senior editor at the Hedgehog Review, which is a quarterly journal of ideas and cultural analysis at the University of Virginia. And I'm a historian

1 (14m 15s):
And you have a book coming out.

14 (14m 17s):
I do. Yeah. It's called Taming the Octopus, the Long Battle for the Soul of the Corporation, which is a, a history of big business in the 20th century that's coming out early next year. So I'm wrapping up copy edits and that kind of thing.

1 (14m 31s):
Let's say tomorrow or next month, target does something wild or Bud Light does something wild. Do you have to like make frantic edits?

14 (14m 38s):
I see what you mean. No, I mean I think that the, I think the dynamics then, this is a very much a historian kind of way of approaching the, the headlines is the, the dynamics that we're seeing play out are old dynamics. I think they're intensifying, I think they're are things that are new about the environment that we're in right now. But the, the question that I'm asking you in the book, and then I think the question that's kind of underlying all of these controversies is the question of what is the corporation, what is it good for? What is its purpose? And those are, it turns out very old questions that Americans have been wrestling with from generation to generation, I think.

1 (15m 12s):
Alright, so let's start here today, target, c e o just about two weeks ago did, did an interview on a podcast and he's kind of boasting to the podcast hosts that Target really focuses on diversity and inclusion and in fact, target has made money because it focuses on diversity and inclusion. And then about seven days later, target says, oh, we're pulling some pride related merchandise. We're not gonna be so into diversity that we're unwilling to back down if we get some pushback from con conservative activists. You're a historian, is there precedent for this kind of behavior by big company?

14 (15m 52s):
I think that this kind of thing happens from time to time where a business will have to respond to its changing social and political environment. It makes a judgment that it's going to offer products that are reflective of the changing cultural and social moment and then having to, to back down or respond to, to criticism. I think what is really new in this moment though, is that the conservative movement in the United States is changing. The way the conservatives in the past have ever responded to big business being more welcoming and opening progressive causes was to say, just focus on profits, stick to business, stay in your lane.

14 (16m 34s):
And I think that we're seeing a dynamic where the, where that's changing quite a bit now. There are seeds, there are seeds to this response to target in the conservative movement. I think especially of the Southern Baptist Convention, you know, the largest Protestant denomination in the United States launched a boycott of Disney in 1997 over the company's decision to provide health insurance benefits to same sex couples.

15 (16m 55s):
Disney is not the Disney we knew in our childhood. Disney is not the same company. They've made some changes and they have not been for the best.

14 (17m 3s):
That boycott was incredibly not successful, which is why almost no one remembers it in that moment. The conservative Baptists occupied a very minority position within the conservative movement, but now I think we're seeing a, a moment in which those kinds of ways of responding to big business are, are reaching into the, into the mainstream of the conservative movement. You know, governor Ron DeSantis of Florida using his position within the movement to make big demands on, on big corporations to reject what they're calling what woke capitalism. Now I think you're seeing this change within the movement where conservatives look at companies like a Chick-fil-A or a Hobby Lobby corporation, and they're praising them not just for the profits that they make or the productivity margins that they have, but that they represent conservative cultural identities.

1 (17m 56s):
When did Americans start expecting more from companies than that? Companies would just sell them stuff.

14 (18m 3s):
Ever since the rise of corporate capitalism in the early 20th century, corporations have been doing their best to overcome the perception that they are a, a nameless, faceless bureaucracy. That they're just focused on making a book. And the way that they've done that from the early, early 20th century, companies like Journal Electric and at and t used advertisements. They used spokespersons with, with homely personalities and art that reflected a kind of humanness that they gave money to charities and they paid for public works and they contributed to communities to show that they had a personality, that they have a corporate soul when compared to the way that business had been done in the United States before then, corporations were shockingly abstract and they seemed dangerously powerful.

14 (18m 52s):
And so Americans have always had something of a love-hate relationship with big business. You know, we support it and desire it for what it can do for us, for its productivity, for its efficiency. But I think we're also a bit suspicious and sometimes intensely worried about the power that large corporations exercise. You know, they have immense privileges and rights that allow them to become big and powerful and, and these legal and economic powers are given to corporations by states and they're inscribed in law, but

17 (19m 26s):
We

14 (19m 26s):
Often don't really have as much of a clear idea about what social responsibilities they should have. And so I, I think what we're seeing here is an intensification of that fight over what big business really is for besides making money. When

1 (19m 39s):
Did companies themselves begin to be aligned with the kind of inclusion that we think of a lot of companies as expressing today or as being aligned with today?

14 (19m 49s):
In order to, to understand the relationship that corporations have with progressive movements, you really have to go back to the post-war era, to the rise of the civil rights movement and the way that activists started to see that the object of their activism should not focus simply on, on Washington or on state legislatures and on law and public policy, but on big business strategy. And the way that this played out was that activists James Peck and Baird Rustin are examples of civil rights activists in the 1950s that bought shares of the Greyhound bus company and demanded that they desegregate their bus lines.

17 (20m 27s):
Our power is in our ability to make things unworkable. The only weapon we have is our bodies and we need to tuck them in places so wheels don't turn.

14 (20m 46s):
They wanted to put shareholder resolutions to, to the floor of the shareholder meeting and, and demand that they make changes. Those kinds of tactics got adopted in the wider civil rights movement in the 1960s and early 1970s. Statton Lind, who I quoted my book, who says, he said, why do we continue to demonstrate in Washington as if the core of the problem lay there? And he encouraged fellow activists to lay siege to corporations as he put it. And so activists would buy up shares and they would go to the annual meetings of General Electric in like 19 70, 19 71, and demand that they in discrimination practices in the workplace and demand that they have representation in car dealerships and, and demand that they mitigate the pollution that they've caused

1 (21m 33s):
Civil rights, environmentalism. These are progressive causes, these are lefty issues we might say. Not carrying pride merchandise is a conservative issue, it's a conservative cause. Does this mean the politics of the people doing the protesting have changed over time and in fact maybe even changed us in the last like year or two years.

14 (21m 55s):
I wouldn't say what's happened is that the protests have changed. I think that we still see protests and activist movements and social movements and people calling on big business to, to support progressive causes. But I think what we're seeing and what's new is this change in the conservative movement where conservatives aren't calling on big business as much simply to focus on profits now. I think that's still, that's still there, that's still in the milieu, that's still a part of the movement. But what you're saying is more of a vocal minority mo within the conservative movement that's saying we, what we want is corporations to take on and to represent conservative cultural identities.

1 (22m 35s):
What I hear you saying, and I think what I've experienced in my lifetime, you know, as somebody who became a consumer in the nineties, I understand the definition of corporate responsibility as it has existed to this point from the progressive point of view. You don't pollute the river, you don't cut down the rainforest. You make sure that you are hiring people from diverse backgrounds. When I hear corporate responsibility, that's where my brain goes. What is the definition of corporate responsibility for conservatives? What are we seeing?

14 (23m 5s):
Conservatives haven't yet quite figured that out in some ways. I think that they're, they're caught between a shareholder value, just focus on profits, just focus on business kind of response. And something else that's not quite articulated yet. And it's articulated as, as far as I've been able to see in being very critical of woke capitalism or as they call it, or E s g or d e i,

18 (23m 34s):
The Texas House passed Senate bill 17, to prevent public colleges and universities in the state from having diversity, equity, and inclusion offices or policies.

14 (23m 45s):
I think that's one of the rhetorical problems that the cultural conservative movement is having, is facing right now. What is the positive vision that they have for big business? And, and one response might be that they don't, they don't want businesses to be that big. I don't, I'm sort of speculating, but I think the con conservatives would say that they, they're standing for something that's very important, that they're articulating something that is positive. But the way that it's worked out within the culture war in the last few years is it's, it's, it's been mostly activated in a negative way towards these controversial issues that have been coming up.

14 (24m 25s):
I see the moment that we're in as one where people are sorting out their political, economic and personal identities, we live in a moment of hyper politics where social psychologists and political scientists can tell you that the kind of beer that you drink, the place that you shop, is actually a pretty good predictor of how you're gonna vote. And people see more and more their economic lives being an expression of their political identity. You know, that the mantra of the feminist movement in the 1960s and seventies was that the personal was political. And I think what we're seeing now is that it's not just that the personal is political, but the economic is political and the economic is also personal and those dynamics are playing out in the left and the right.

14 (25m 11s):
And I think that's going to pose significant problems for executives and other big business leaders because what it means is that there's not an easy way out of these intense conflicts, these corporate culture wars.

1 (25m 30s):
Kyle Williams, he's a historian and editor of the Hedgehog Review at U V A. Today's show is produced by Victoria Chamberlain and edited by Matthew Collette. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Michael Rayfield. Welcome to our new executive producer Miranda Kennedy. I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.