0 (1s):
London's doing it.

1 (2s):
I mean, we didn't go first 'cause we thought it'd be good fun and get lots of kudos. We moved because we had to

0 (8s):
Stockholm's doing it.

2 (10s):
If, you want to do great things. Don't tell people how to adapt. Just nudge them away from the bad options.

0 (16s):
Singapore's doing it. The

3 (18s):
Important thing is that the alternatives must be there. For example, affordable, efficient, public transport system.

0 (26s):
But not a single city in these United States has yet dared to charge people a fee to drive during peak hours. But New York wants to, they passed a law, they've got a plan. It could be implemented as soon as this coming spring. There's only one thing standing in the way. New Jersey,

4 (48s):
Forget about it.

0 (50s):
That's ahead On today. Explain

4 (57s):
Yourself.

Zelle (59s):
Support for this episode comes from Zelle. You'd never fall for an online scam, right? You use two-factor authentication. Ignore calls from everyone named spam risk and never use the password. Password. But scammers are getting more sophisticated and more active, which means they're finding millions of new victims every single year. The good news is that there's a lot you can do to protect yourself on the Wild, wild Web. For starters, Zelle wants to remind you only send money to people you know and trust. Zelle is available to United States Bank account holders only terms and conditions apply.

Apple Podcasts (1m 44s):
Support for the show today comes from Apple Podcasts. Hey everyone, I've got a new show for you. It's the story of a woman who discovers her uncle's secret life buried inside a low budget nineties thriller that starred Rob Lowe and Ice t. The podcast is called Magnificent Jerk. It's a journey through Chinatown, gangs, drug robberies, Hollywood reinvention, and a family confronting its unspoken past magnificent jerk. The true story of a fake story about a real life magnificent jerk is an Apple original podcast produced by Pineapple Street Studios. Available on Apple Podcasts.

6 (2m 33s):
And we're at the broken doors. Please. The next stop will be today. Explain today. Explain will be next. Stand here.

7 (2m 41s):
I am Steven Nessen, transit reporter at New York Public Radio, W N Y C. And my stories appear on the website. Gothamist

0 (2m 50s):
Steven's here to tell us about congestion pricing in New York City.

7 (2m 55s):
This is such a big deal. This is massive. 'cause New York City will be the first city in America to charge drivers to drive, to enter a crowded part of a city.

8 (3m 6s):
We are setting the standard right here in real time for how we can achieve cleaner air, safer streets, and better transit.

7 (3m 14s):
It was very, very difficult for New York City to do this.

8 (3m 16s):
This day was coming for a long time, but it was a thoughtful, methodical process.

7 (3m 22s):
People have tried it for years and they failed. But now we are closer than we've ever been to implementing congestion pricing.

0 (3m 30s):
Tell me about the challenges in the past. How has this gone for New York City, for New York state previously?

7 (3m 36s):
Well, you know, mayor Bloomberg tried something like this.

9 (3m 41s):
So as long as we're at the Museum of Natural History, let us talk about the elephant in the room congestion pricing.

7 (3m 49s):
He even wanted to toll the East River bridges that funnel vehicles into downtown. And those bridges are completely free, which is crazy to any urban planner. But nobody has the political will, we should say the guts to charge drivers. It would just be, you know, political suicide to do this. Hmm. So at the city level, no city politician is gonna pull this off. It was up to the state governor Andrew Cuomo, to get it done. A time

0 (4m 16s):
Where, where Andrew Cuomo could get something done in Albany. How did he do it?

7 (4m 21s):
You know, arguably, probably at the height of his power, he was a a fearsome political creature and he got things done with some serious, you know, painful backroom, you know, arm twisting, arm breaking. Here are

10 (4m 35s):
The options. God is going to send down $33 billion. That's not gonna happen. There is only one way it happens. That is congestion fraud.

7 (4m 45s):
It was a somewhat maybe easier sell because the reason they claimed that they really wanted to do it was 'cause they needed money for the subways. The subways were just in abysmal shape at that time. People could not get to work on time. A college

11 (4m 58s):
Student graduating on a subway car, hugging his family and friends alongside complete strangers because instead of walking the stage at Hunter College with his classmates, Jerich RA was stuck here on a stalled e train deep under Queens If,

12 (5m 14s):
You want a copy of my diploma? Turn on your airdrop.

7 (5m 17s):
For politicians, it was just totally unacceptable.

10 (5m 20s):
You can't expect people to get out of their car if they're gonna get into a train that never leaves the platform.

7 (5m 27s):
So they were like, look, we need money to fix this. You know, the environment was also a major concern. All

8 (5m 34s):
This concentrated activity, the vehicles sitting there idling because they cannot move. And our buses that are not moving, it's also creating all this exhaust and emissions that our people are breathing.

0 (5m 48s):
Can you just tell us what even is this plan? Sure.

7 (5m 52s):
So when the state passed it, they sort of put some parameters in place. First of all, the key thing to know is where is the tolling zone? So it's gonna start just south of Central Park and it's gonna go all the way down, basically to the bottom of Manhattan. Other than that, there really weren't a lot of guidelines put in for how to run it. People who live in the zone that make less than $60,000 a year, we'll receive a credit. So they don't get told every time they drive around outta their house. And vehicles that transport wheelchair accessible vehicles that are transporting people will not be charged either.

0 (6m 27s):
How much are the fees? Like how much would this cost?

7 (6m 29s):
That's the million dollar question. A

0 (6m 31s):
Million dollars. That feels like too much.

7 (6m 34s):
It's actually not enough. It's a very interesting arrangement. We don't know how much it's gonna cost. There's a group that's still deciding that, but we do know how much they need to make every year. Hmm. That was baked into the plan. So the original idea of it, remember, was to make money for the subways and buses to fix public transit. So they decided on this number 1 billion, they need to make a billion dollars a year off congestion pricing. So the high end is $23 to enter the zone, but it could be much less than that. It could be, you know, $12, it could be $10, it could be as low as $5, although that really doesn't seem likely. There's a group that's trying to figure this out, and the way it's gonna work is, you know, it's like making or playing with a giant spreadsheet.

7 (7m 20s):
You know, all these people wanna get exemptions from the charge. People from new Jersey don't want to pay it, but for every group that you exclude, that means the price gets higher for everyone else.

13 (7m 32s):
How, how are we gonna, you know, survive? This is ridiculous. You know, charging just to, you know, go home and go to work.

0 (7m 41s):
Okay. So some drivers are understandably mad that they're gonna have to start paying money for something they've been getting for free for the entirety of the history of driving in New York City. But why is New Jersey mad Steven?

7 (7m 55s):
Well, new Jersey is very mad about this because they already pay a toll to enter the city. So they're feeling to use the words of new Jersey Congressman Josh Gottheimer. They feel like they're getting whacked by New York.

14 (8m 8s):
This is just a cash grab for the M T A. They're desperate for dollars. So who are they looking to? Hardworking commuters here from Jersey to pay like as our, as as their piggy bank to pay their bills for their mismanagement.

7 (8m 20s):
And as a matter of fact, the governor of New Jersey, Phil Murphy, is suing over this.

15 (8m 26s):
So today, I, I am here to announce I don't do this every day. I have to say that we are suing to block New York's Ill-conceived congestion pricing plan.

7 (8m 36s):
He doesn't even know whether his drivers are gonna actually be whacked or paid twice. But he is preemptively suing to sort of stop this process saying that they didn't do enough research. Basically,

15 (8m 47s):
That's the most applause I've gotten in two and a half years.

7 (8m 50s):
The federal government said they need to do what's called an environmental assessment of their project. The result of that was a more than 4,000 page document. Looking at counties surrounding New York City and New Jersey, Connecticut, New York, of how this program will impact them. How it's gonna impact traffic, how it's gonna impact pollution, how it's gonna impact the poorest people that live in these areas. And basically new Jersey saying, we don't think you did enough research. Maybe you should do a more detailed analysis. That's

14 (9m 21s):
Why we're here today. To make sure the Department of Transportation hears the voices of the hardworking middle class commuters who will be forced to pay this absurd $23 a day, $5,000 a year congestion tax. And to listen to those voices of young children whose health will be harmed directly by the increased air pollution the congestion tax will cause.

7 (9m 43s):
So new Jersey does claim that some parts of the state might see higher emissions. I took a little peek into the environmental document that the M T A put out, and they do note that traffic elsewhere could change. I don't think new Jersey was necessarily flagged as being the most problematic. Quite frankly, some experts who have studied this far longer than I have, believe that it's gonna be a negligible effect, basically.

0 (10m 7s):
Well, presumably New Jersey's governor wouldn't go after New York willy-nilly. 'cause you know, they have something of a relationship. What does New Jersey say is missing from this 4,000 page document?

7 (10m 23s):
It's a good question. They're very, very, very skimpy on the details of what they want. For example, the MTAs environmental assessment found that 85% of the trips that people make into the central business district, the tolling area, are made by public transit. The MTAs Environmental Assessment also found that during the morning commute, like the busiest time when the most people are traveling people from new Jersey, by and large, something like 90% of them get into Manhattan on public transit. Hmm. They're not driving into the city.

0 (10m 57s):
If it goes through how big a deal for New York City,

7 (10m 60s):
It's gonna be massive. You know, I believe the city is estimating that, you know, if everything works out, if the, you know, if their spreadsheets are right and the traffic planners are correct, traffic could go down by as much as maybe 19%, 20%. And I'm told that is like an epic sea change on the streets. That's like going from bumper to bumper traffic to free flowing traffic. And the whole country is watching Seattle, you know, Chicago, Philadelphia. They all wanna see, is this gonna work? Should we try this here? Or is it gonna be a complete failure?

0 (11m 39s):
The number one biggest obstacle to the Empire State's Congestion pricing plan is that lawsuit, the Garden State filed. We're gonna hear if they've got a case when we're back On today, explained

Fundrise (11m 59s):
Support for our show comes from Fundrise with Fundrise. Investors of all sizes can invest in promising private pre I P O companies, including those working on the next chapter of ai, according to fund drives, the platform is already America's largest direct access alternative asset manager. And they just launched a brand new venture capital product that's available for all investors. It's become clear that AI has the potential to create a major shift in our world. From large language models to autonomous vehicles to disease research, AI is poised to radically alter day-to-day life. If you're an investor, you might be wondering how AI is going to impact your portfolio with fund drives, you can invest in some of the top private pre I P O companies in the world. Before it would've been virtually impossible for the average investor to put their money into these kinds of companies before they went public. According to Fundrise, almost two million people have already used the service to invest. If you'd like to join them, you can visit Fundrise dot com slash t E X to get started. That's F U N D R I S e.com/t x. All investments can lead to loss

Apple Podcasts (13m 16s):
Support for the show Day comes from Apple Podcast. Hey everyone, I've got a new show for you. It's the story of a woman who discovers her uncle's secret life buried inside a low budget nineties thriller that starred Rob Lowe and Ice tea. The podcast is called Magnificent Jerk. It's a journey through Chinatown gangs, drug robberies, Hollywood reinvention, and a family confronting its unspoken past magnificent jerk. The true story of a fake story about a real life magnificent jerk is an Apple original podcast produced by Pineapple Street Studios available on Apple Podcasts.

4 (14m 3s):
Where is this happening? Across

17 (14m 5s):
The river in Jersey. Everything is legal in in new Jersey

0 (14m 8s):
Today explained Ramis firm. Here's what we've got. New York wants to implement congestion pricing. It wants to be the first in the nation to do it. They put out a 4,000 page document about all the impacts and new Jersey said to heck with your plan and sued. And they're suing on environmental grounds. Which is weird because like New Jersey isn't the cleanest place in the world,

18 (14m 29s):
The garden state, but no, not the cleanest place in the world. The garden state with more Superfund sites than any other state in the country. So there's a bit of a tension there.

0 (14m 39s):
Professor Michael Hertz specializes in environmental law over at Cardozo Law in New York. He'll also be paying to drive in and out of the city if congestion pricing is implemented in spring 20 20, 24. We asked the good professor what's up with new Jersey?

18 (14m 55s):
I think that new Jersey, like many others, is very nervous about how this plan will hit it. And they're hardly alone in that. And one of the things that's complicated about this plan, and frankly complicated about almost any environmental regulation, is that the burdens and the benefits don't always fall on exactly the same people. Hmm. And that's what makes environmental loss so politically leads to so many political battles. So

0 (15m 26s):
A lot of people wanna find a way around congestion pricing in New York City, but not a lot of people are suing New Jersey. However, is Can you tell us about the law they're suing under?

18 (15m 40s):
Yeah, so what they're suing under is something called the National Environmental Protection Act called nepa. NEPA was passed by Congress at the very end of 1969, signed into law by President Richard Nixon, Republican President Richard Nixon,

0 (15m 55s):
Environmentalist,

18 (15m 56s):
Environmentalist at least for a couple of years,

19 (16m 2s):
Clean air and clean water. The wise use of our land, the protection of wildlife and natural beauty parks for all to enjoy. These are part of the birthright of every American.

18 (16m 14s):
And so on. January 1st, 1970, he signs this law. It's a very different than most other environmental laws, however, because it does not directly regulate polluters, doesn't tell anybody what they have to do to protect the environment. It's got a bunch of different provisions, some of them very impressive and aspirational and poetic.

19 (16m 38s):
The time has come for man to make his peace with nature.

18 (16m 43s):
But what has turned out to be the most important provision of NEPA and what's relevant to this lawsuit is the requirement that before a federal agency take an action, a quote, major federal action, it may significantly affect the quality of the environment. It has to stop and consider the environmental impacts. Mm. And the whole theory of the law is that once agencies confront the environmental destructiveness of their actions, they will behave in a more environmentally responsible way.

0 (17m 25s):
And it, it's, it's my guess that when NEPA was passed, the legislators who wrote it did not predict that this one clause would become the source of countless lawsuits.

18 (17m 41s):
You are a superb guesser. Right. And for two reasons, one, the few words that require a quote detailed statement about the environmental impact before action is taken were added very late in the legislative process. Hmm. The folks who sort of had the original idea and were pushing NEPA didn't think this was the critical part of the legislation. And it got no real attention by the members of Congress who, who were enacting it. It was a little kind of throwaway line that was added late. And the second reason that no one would've anticipated what happened was that it's pretty fair to say that all the folks enacting this legislation did not anticipate there would be lawsuits.

18 (18m 29s):
The way a lawyer would phrase that is they didn't include a private right of action. Hmm. But it was passed at a time when the federal courts were happy to imply such a. Right. And very early on in the 1970s, the courts of appeals and then the Supreme Court accepted that yes. Individuals, which includes individuals, it includes companies, and it includes states can sue a federal agency for failing to comply with nepa.

0 (19m 0s):
So I wanna ask you more about how this law applies in New Jersey. But, but could you tell me a little bit about maybe like NEPA's greatest hits? Surely there are some well-known NEPA challenges out there.

18 (19m 12s):
Well, locally here in New York City, I think the top of the list was Westway Westway was this huge public works project along the west side of Manhattan planned in the 1970s and 1980s.

10 (19m 28s):
Every financial interest you can think of was behind westway. Billions. Billions of dollars in at stake. And a lot of it already committed.

18 (19m 37s):
Originally it was gonna be a giant park all along the west side of Manhattan with a lot of fill into the Hudson River to create the space for this. And a highway going for most of the length of it underground. And it was very controversial, extraordinarily expensive project.

20 (19m 56s):
Mayor Koch wants assurances that they're gonna have the funds before he okays Westway. Now we want assurances that we're not gonna be inundated. And I think it's been very reasonable all that we asked for that the Army Corps of Engineers open up their public hearings.

18 (20m 11s):
There was an environmental impact statement. There was a challenge to the adequacy that e i s, the federal courts said, yeah, the c i s is, it's long and it's got a lot in it, but you know what, it's pretty clear that this is gonna have an impact on the bass population in the, in the Hudson River. And the court just didn't mention this. Hmm. And therefore it's gotta go back and redo the e i s And at that point, this was the mid eighties, everyone just said, oh the hell with it. Really? Yeah. We just can't, it's too much.

0 (20m 42s):
Rather than revise the document and talk about the fishies, they were like, forget it. We're not gonna build this huge project.

18 (20m 50s):
Remember this was, I dunno, a decade into, and I mean, it's like congestion pricing. Right. Congestion pricing has been around for a long time, and supporters have been pushing it. Now it's come and gone. It's been not been a sustained 10 or 15 year effort. And at some point, you know, it's one obstacle after another and one is the straw that breaks the camel's back.

0 (21m 10s):
And is the point of these lawsuits always, as you said, to, to break the camel's back to kill a project? Or are there genuine inquiries out there?

18 (21m 21s):
Of course, it's both. But, and, and you have to look a little at, at who the plaintiff is, But I. Think there are three basic goals, not mutually exclusive in a new NEPA lawsuit. One is to kill the project, one is to delay the project partly in the hope. That delay will end up killing it because If, you can get a three or four delay. Circumstances may be such that it no longer makes economic sense after that three or four years. Okay. And the third is to alter the project, to get them to modify it in a way which you like better. Which may or may not mean is environmentally more protective. And

0 (21m 58s):
Let me ask you, you seem more expert than most in this world of nepa. Which do you think new Jersey is trying to do? Kill the project, kill the project, or perhaps alter the project?

18 (22m 13s):
I can't get in the heads of these guys, but let me say this. I think that if New York came along and said, okay, tell you what, certainly if they said we will totally exempt new Jersey drivers from the toll, they would abandon the lawsuit. Hmm. So that's kind of an answer. Now that's not on the table, but what's on the table is to give new Jersey drivers credit for the tolls they pay to get into Manhattan. So that the overall amount paid by new Jersey drivers to get to the central business district would be the same as paid by say, someone who lives on the upper West side. That would be a good outcome for new Jersey. I don't know that they're gonna get it, because I think the lawsuit is awfully weak.

18 (22m 55s):
And I think the lawsuit is going nowhere. But one of the things about lawsuits is it can take a very long time to go nowhere.

0 (23m 3s):
Do you think the country would be better off without nepa, without this sort of unintended clause in a 1970 law that gives new Jersey a way to delay a plan that New York passed to improve the environmental health of its residents and to even potentially improve its subway system and improve its roads and the rest? Well

18 (23m 31s):
Look, you know, one of the things that a number of your questions have revolved around is a concern that you have an environmental law being used for non-environmental ends. Hmm. And that has always been true. You know, one of the things about lawsuits is plaintiffs don't have to be pure of heart. Hmm. You make the illegal argument that's available to you, whatever your motivation for opposing the project. And this disconnect is common. Now, lots of, most NEPA lawsuits are brought by environmental groups. They are actually genuinely focused on, on environmental harms.

18 (24m 13s):
You know, to, just to go back to the question you actually asked, which was is this net? Net is, are we better off with nepa? I think we're better off with nepa. Yes. I think that it has made a significant difference in the destructiveness of federal agency projects. Hmm. And in the culture within various agencies. And the core of engineers and highways have been just grotesquely, environmentally destructive over the years. And then you say to them, wait, you gotta stop and think. You have to think about the environmental consequences of what you're doing. You have to hire someone who's in a position to evaluate those and participate in writing the e i s.

18 (24m 54s):
it changes the culture a little bit. It changes the water cooler conversations. It forces them to confront what they're doing. And that's not all nonsense. It's not all bss. It actually does have an impact Whether it's worth all the effort. That's the tricky question because NEPA does lead to massive delays, massive expenditure of time, effort, and expertise. And you know, there are, there are a couple dozen of these lawsuits, like New Jersey's every year that are highly disruptive. And when people say, you know, how come China gets high speed rail nationwide done in 10 years, and we can't build anything in the United States.

18 (25m 38s):
NEPA is one of the reasons. It's not the only reason, but it's one of the reasons. And so it does come at a real cost.

0 (25m 44s):
It comes down to NEPA and communism.

18 (25m 48s):
That's, yeah. Yep. Those are the two evil forces in the world today. Yeah.

0 (26m 6s):
Professor Michael Hertz. He's the Arthur Kaplan professor of Law at Cardozo Law. Earlier in the show, you heard from Steven Nessen, who's the transit reporter at W N Y C and Gothamist. Our show today was produced by Amanda Lewellyn, edited by Amina Al Fact. checked by Tien Nguyen, engineered by Rob Byers with help from Patrick Boyd. And the show is titled Today, explained

Global Citizen (26m 47s):
Support for this show comes from Global Citizen. On September 23rd, the Global Citizen Festival will gather thousands of people who took action to end extreme poverty. Watch the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Ms. Lauren Hill, jook and Anita as they take the stage with world leaders and activists to demand action for equity, for the planet, for food and for jobs. Download the Global Citizen app to watch live. Learn more@globalcitizen.org slash Vox.