0 (0s):
Cover story, a new investigative podcast by New York magazine. That's got a lot of people on edge. What is the

1 (6s):
Number one rule we would all go. Don't your client.

0 (11s):
It's a gnarly personal look at the underground psychedelic therapy world and its boundary problems.

1 (17s):
All my clients try to have sex with me during these sessions. And I was like, I don't think I'm going to try to have sex with you. And he's like, yeah,

0 (27s):
You will cover story. Season one, power trip, check it out on apple podcasts or wherever you listen.

2 (34s):
The first animals put on trial. The first streaker at the Superbowl, the first crime involving Quaaludes and lemurs criminal is the first of its kind. Since 2014, we've been reporting on the most curious crimes. It's the

3 (51s):
Craziest story I've ever heard. And to think that I lived, it is kind of hard to grasp something,

2 (57s):
Discover the unexpected side of true crime. Sometimes funny, sometimes scary, always human I'm Phoebe judge. And this is criminal now part of the Vox media podcast network.

4 (1m 21s):
All right. So at this point, rerecording and rereleasing her most beloved albums seems like one of the smartest things Taylor Swift's ever done all too well. Parenthetical 10 minute version parents, medical Taylor's version parent, that a goal from the vault might be perhaps the clunkiest song title in the history of popular music, but it also broke the record for the longest song to take the top spot on the billboard hot 100 chart. It also managed to get the internet extremely mad at Jake Gyllenhaal. Taylor ended up with three of the best-selling albums of the year and only one of them was new. She picked up a Grammy nomination.

4 (2m 2s):
She's on a tear, but most of the excitement is about these old albums she's recording, but it didn't always seem like such a sure thing. There was a time where did this seem like a big gamble and on the show today, we're going to revisit that time. It was back in April of this year, A bunch of your dad's favorite song writers have been selling off their songs late last year, Bob Dylan sold the rights to more than 600 of his songs to universal music for an estimated $300 million. Shortly after that, Neil young sold 50% of the rights to his thousand plus songs to a British investment firm.

4 (2m 45s):
Stevie Nicks sold off 80% of her publishing rights. Lindsey Buckingham went with a hundred percent and just last week, Paul Simon sold off his entire catalog to Sony COVID has probably expedited the, for a lot of these legends, Turing's out merges out. Everyone's sitting at home streaming, which has dramatically increased the value of back catalogs instead of dying. And having everyone come out of the woodwork to fight over the rights to their music. A lot, prince Aretha Franklin and Tom petty artists are cashing out before they didn't call it an end of life planning. But all the while, one of the biggest singer song writers working in popular music today, maybe the biggest is doing something very different At what you could argue is the artistic peak of her career.

4 (3m 39s):
Taylor swift is rerecording her first six albums And she's doing it because she's in a very different place than the singer songwriters of your Taylor swift doesn't own the rights to her first six albums, But by rerecording them and convincing fans to listen to the new versions, she can win back the rights to her music. Shirley Lee wrote about Taylor Swift's gambit for the Atlantic. She says it's a big deal for two reasons.

6 (4m 17s):
I think it's important for the business at large, because this is something that a lot of musicians and artists wouldn't really attempt to do. So if she can really do this rerecord everything and have it be successful, that's kind of a proof of concept for other pop stars to do the same thing to own their work fully reason to creatively speaking. It's interesting to see how an artist reinterprets their previous work and for her as someone whose music is diaristic is based on her life. It'll be interesting to see how she reinterprets the past Taylor

4 (4m 51s):
Full disclosure. Shirley's a fan. They call themselves Swifty.

6 (4m 55s):
I am now a Swifty and I have been a Swifty in the past, but I will say that my swift Venus has waxed and waned over the years. She's had a long career.

4 (5m 4s):
It's true. She's only like 31. And she already has like what nine albums. So let's talk about where this story begins. How does Taylor come to want to rerecord? The first six of them

6 (5m 15s):
Timeline is a little bit blurry here, but let's just say around the time of her peak, her world domination with the album 1989, That was back in like 2014. She dropped that album.

4 (5m 30s):
This one's got like blank space for all the people at home. Maybe not paying full attention, but caught a couple of songs here and there.

6 (5m 38s):
This one has blank space. This one has shake it off This is when she becomes Taylor swift pop star and she's building a per squad and she ends up becoming perhaps a little overexposed shortly before the Grammy

7 (6m 12s):
Awards shortly before she wins album of the year for a second time in her career, Kanye west, who she also has a very long history with he's the artist who interrupted her acceptance speech way back when in 2009, no, Taylor, I'm really happy for you. I'm I'll let you finish by. Beyonce had one of the best videos of all time, one of the best videos, all,

6 (6m 47s):
But they made up. It was all good. Now before this Grammy, he releases a song called famous

7 (7m 1s):
Niggas that know me best. I pay like me and Taylor. My still has sex. Why I made that bitch famous. I made that bitch famous

6 (7m 11s):
In which he claims that he made her famous because of that incident in 2009. But basically she takes offense to the fact that he claimed that he made her famous. And also the fact that he calls her a bitch.

7 (7m 27s):
I made that bitch famous. I made that bitch famous,

4 (7m 32s):
Not to mention the video features like a bunch of naked mannequins in bed with Kanye west and his wife, including Taylor swift.

6 (7m 40s):
Yeah. Yeah. So she didn't like any of that. And during her speech at the Grammy's, she expresses how she, her fame, her success is not owed to anybody else, except for herself.

8 (7m 53s):
There are going to be people along the way who will try to undercut your success or take credit for your accomplishments or your fame

6 (8m 6s):
And his wife then release a video in which she can be heard over the phone, approving the lyrics.

9 (8m 17s):
Yeah. I mean, w goes, whatever line is better, it's obviously very tongue in cheek either way. And I really appreciate you telling me about it. That's really nice.

10 (8m 27s):
Oh yeah. I just had a responsibility to you as a friend, you know, and I mean, thanks for being so cool,

6 (8m 34s):
But not specifically the lyric that calls her a bitch, that feud is back on what happens next is Taylor kind of disappears. Everyone is going onto her social media feeds, leaving the snake. Emoji, calling her a snake. Kim is calling her a snake, her reputation, which is then the name of her next album is, you know, destroyed in her perspective in Taylor's perspective. And I think we have to go through all of this because Kanye, at that time, as far as we know, was managed by scooter Braun

4 (9m 11s):
And who is scooter Braun?

6 (9m 13s):
Scooter Braun is a music executive who manages a lot of artists. You probably have heard of, or have listened to Justin Bieber being the big one

11 (9m 23s):
And Georgia. I get my weed from California,

6 (9m 27s):
Ariana, Grande's being another one More recently, Demi Lovato. So he has a lot of influence in the music industry.

4 (9m 43s):
And he's got a relationship with Kanye west at a time when Kanye west has a lot of beef with Taylor swift.

6 (9m 49s):
Yes. In terms of what scooter Braun's looking for, he's a businessman. He is, he's a big music executive. He's always looking for opportunities to expand his portfolio. And Scott bruschetta, the owner of big machine records, Taylor's old record label. She was basically big machine. She was the main artist over there. And Scott bruschetta is looking to, I guess, unload, you know, an artist who is no longer really operating in the country space.

4 (10m 19s):
Hm. Because at this point, Taylor has made this transition to being a full fledged pop star. At

6 (10m 25s):
This point, Taylor has pretty much shed her country roots

13 (10m 29s):
On the screen, tapping on you.

6 (10m 34s):
She's gone. Full-blown pop.

4 (10m 43s):
Hm. So what happens next?

6 (10m 45s):
So when in 2019 scooter Braun then purchases Taylor's library. Her first six albums owned by her old record label. Taylor sees this as something that she can not stand for.

4 (11m 5s):
How much does it cost to buy the rights to Taylor Swift's first six albums, including 1999,

6 (11m 13s):
Hundreds of millions of dollars about a report at 300 million.

4 (11m 18s):
And how much of that does Taylor swift to get

6 (11m 21s):
Zero. She responds with a letter that she posts to social media explaining how scooter Braun to her is someone who has been a bully in the past and who would be the last person that she would want owning her music and making money off of it.

14 (11m 39s):
Scooters team wanted me to sign an ironclad NDA stating I would never say another word about scooter Braun, unless it was positive before we could even look at the financial records of the G, which is always the first step in a purchase of this nature. So I would have had to sign a document that would silence me forever before I could even have a chance to bid on my own work. My legal team said that this is absolutely not normal, and they've never seen an NDA like this presented unless it was to silence and assault accuser, by paying them off, he would never even quote my team a price. These master recordings were not for sale to me.

4 (12m 15s):
So how do Taylor swift fans respond?

6 (12m 17s):
So most of Taylor Swift's fans rally behind her. They saw scooter Braun as the big, bad they needed to protect Taylor's work. They saw Taylor as kind of this David against Goliath being this entire music industry and the way that it doesn't prioritize artists ownership over their own creative work. But the thing is, this is the internet. So things escalated quite quickly. And as with any passionate fandom, a subset of fans were aggressive towards scooter Braun and towards Scott Borchetta and

4 (12m 56s):
Scooter aggressive. Do these Taylor swift fans get

6 (12m 59s):
Well, some of them ended up, you know, pummeling, scooter Braun with death threats,

4 (13m 5s):
Taylor swift fans, the Swifties issue, death threats,

6 (13m 9s):
His family with them specifically. Yeah. And so scooter had to come out with a statement. I believe an open letter to well, to advise tailors was basically to get a control over her fans.

15 (13m 21s):
I assume this was not your intention, but it is important that you understand that your words carry a tremendous amount of weight and that your message can be interpreted by some in different ways while I'm disappointed that you've remained silent after being notified by your attorney four days ago, these ongoing threats, I'm still hopeful. We can fix this.

4 (13m 43s):
Hmm. It sounds like she doesn't have a lot of love for scooter Braun, but is he really doing anything terribly untoward here? I mean, or is he just a businessman doing business things?

6 (13m 56s):
Oh man. I think if you ask a hardcore Swifty, it's the former, if you look at it from a business perspective, it's very much the latter it's scooter Braun being the businessman. He's always been, he sold Taylor Swift's back catalog a little over a year after he acquired the rights to Taylor Swift's back catalog. He sold them to a private equity firm called Shamrock capital. So then he made about $300 million off of that deal. So again, businessman doing business.

4 (14m 30s):
So wait, scooter Braun doesn't even own tailored, Swiss back catalog anymore in present day, what? April, 2021.

6 (14m 38s):
He doesn't fully own it, but he is still making money off of it in the deal with Shamrock, he managed to still be siphoning off some of whatever profits come from licensing that old music and not going to

4 (14m 52s):
Stand for it.

6 (14m 53s):
Yes. She's not going to stand for it. So the next step she takes is she decides to rerecord those first six albums.

4 (14m 60s):
She can't own the old stuff, but because of the terms of her contract, she can own all the new versions if she records them.

6 (15m 9s):
Yeah. All of the music that she had already released, she decides to go back in the studio, try to bring back, you know, her old collaborators from more than a decade ago and rerecord those songs. She does not want scooter Braun making any money off of her earlier work. She wants to be the one owning her songs, licensing her songs. And ultimately de-valuing the songs that scooter Braun now owns.

4 (15m 41s):
Huh? So for the time being scooter Braun, still getting paid off Taylor swift songs, she doesn't like it. And she's going to do something about it. Yup.

6 (15m 49s):
That is the plan.

16 (15m 51s):
If she don't know what you're down. No, Why you gotta be. So

4 (16m 20s):
After the space, whether this plan is going to work,

16 (16m 25s):
Would you switching sides and humiliation? You don't already see that

0 (16m 44s):
Cover story. A new investigative podcast by New York magazine, that's got a lot of people on edge.

1 (16m 49s):
What is the number one rule we would all go. Don't

0 (16m 53s):
Your clients. It's a gnarly personal look at the underground psychedelic therapy world and its boundary problems.

1 (17m 1s):
All my clients tried to have sex with me during these sessions. And I was like, I don't think I'm going to try to have sex with you. And he's like, yeah, you will

0 (17m 11s):
Cover story. Season one, power trip, check it out on apple podcasts or wherever you listen.

2 (17m 17s):
The first animals put on trial. The first streaker at the Superbowl, the first crime involving Quaaludes and lemurs criminal is the first of its kind. Since 2014, we've been reporting on the most curious crimes. It's the craziest

3 (17m 34s):
The story I've ever heard. And to think that I lived, it is kind of hard to grasp sometimes

2 (17m 40s):
Discover the unexpected side of true crime. Sometimes funny, sometimes scary, always human I'm Phoebe.

5 (17m 50s):
And this is criminal. Now part of the Vox media podcast network. <em></em>

4 (18m 3s):
I guess the million dollar question surely, or maybe the $300 million question in this case is Taylor swift is going to rerecord her back catalog. Will it work?

6 (18m 16s):
That is the $300 million question so far it's

4 (18m 21s):
Working really. We already know.

6 (18m 24s):
Well, so far she's released one rerecording and that is love story parentheses Taylor's version And that when it was released top the U S iTunes chart, the top, the charts, you have to remember, she's a massive, massive star. I would argue that if you know anybody lower than that tier of a plus list attempted this, you probably wouldn't see this happened.

6 (19m 8s):
You wouldn't see a rerecording top the chart immediately.

4 (19m 12s):
I'm glad you brought this up, Shirley, because I believe rolling stone magazine last year or the one before that released a small, but thorough piece of journalism about the band weakness. Do you remember Redis? Do you remember teenage dirtbag from the soundtrack to the movie loser with Jason Biggs? Shirley?

6 (19m 31s):
Do I remember

4 (19m 54s):
Well, teenage dirtbag, like I feel Taylor swift is for you was a huge part of, of my growing up and, and apparently they lost the masters. Like it wasn't the label's fault. It wasn't the management's fault. It wasn't the band's fault, but just no one could find the masters to the song so that when people wanted to license the song, the band actually couldn't do much when they wanted to remix the song, the band couldn't provide the original tapes. So the lead singer went and rerecorded the song and I wanted to support him. He like found all the old instruments they use and we're trying to figure out, oh, what is that thing that happens in the bridge and all that stuff, but it just didn't sound as good.

6 (20m 37s):
Ah,

4 (20m 38s):
That's swift going to be dealing with the same thing or does she have some sort of, you know, super power of recreation here?

6 (20m 46s):
I do think that has the capability of making these rerecording sound just as good. She's become a better singer. She has more control over her voice. She is also someone who has a lot more influence than the Taylor swift in the very beginning of her career. So she is able to recruit, you know, whatever artists she wants onto these rerecording albums. So all of this is just to say that I'm afraid Taylor swift is a much bigger star than weakness and does

4 (21m 20s):
Shots fired

6 (21m 22s):
And she does have the power to make these re recordings work.

4 (21m 28s):
Hm. You know, another recent example of someone doing something like this is Kat Stevens who rerecorded father and son. And there's this great episode of the podcast song Exploder about this rerecording in which he kind of sings the song as an older cat Stevens to a younger cat Stevens

17 (21m 49s):
From the moment I was on to listen. Now there's a way, and I know that I have to go away

4 (22m 3s):
And the song changes, it's got like a lot more strings. It sounds a little more schmaltzy, but is that what Taylor's doing here? Is it, is it let's do a faithful rerecording as best we can of the original six albums or is it let's have, you know, Taylor swift plus tennis years re imagine her original music.

6 (22m 27s):
It's somewhere in the middle between those two nodes. It's closer to the faithful end of the spectrum. So far, just given what we've heard from her first rerecording, she has faithfully, you know, rerecorded the song itself in terms of production in terms of the lyrics. But I think she understands fundamentally that the people who are going to be seeking out these re recordings are not people who are new to Taylor swift, the people who are going to be listening to this album, as soon as it drops, those people are the ones who have been Swifties for a long time and want to hear how she thinks about her music now.

6 (23m 16s):
And so, again, I know I'm speaking in kind of abstract terms, but it's largely fateful with the difference being that she is kind of playful with it. You know, she's not a teenager anymore. Singing love story. Her interpretation of the song does sound more mature, not just because her vocals have matured, but because of the way she's playing with her tone when she's singing. So she gives a little clip to certain She sounds warmer. It's not as pleading of a song.

4 (24m 13s):
Still though it does seem like a bit of a risky venture, even if you're one of the biggest pop stars in the world, because it's just going to take a ton of time, right? I mean, what's the potential payoff here for Taylor?

6 (24m 25s):
Well, here's the thing. Taylor's music is very specific to her, right? Her music has always been diaristic. It is about her life. She's written all of her music or co-written it. So I think she feels a sense of ownership over her music in a way that a lot of other artists might not. She wants to feel ownership. She wants to stop feeling like her music and her, you know, her soul got sold off to someone she dislikes and has considered a bully throughout her career. On the business end though, you know, this does allow her to be the one, owning the music and licensing the music and profiting off of the music.

6 (25m 11s):
She has always been an advocate for artists ownership over the years. I think, you know, she's written up ads about how important it is for artists to be compensated for their work. When they land on streaming platforms like Spotify, she's always thought about it from a business perspective.

4 (25m 31s):
And presumably if, if someone wants to license, shake it off for an upcoming care bear movie, if they go to scooter Braun for the original version, Taylor swift will come out and say, they're going to scooter. And not me for my new version Swifties attack.

6 (25m 51s):
Well so far, it doesn't seem like she has done that because a care bear was movie has not happened. No, but it does seem like what she could do is rerecord, shake it off immediately and say that this is the version that I would like to be used. And I am the artist who wrote this song and the artist who recorded this song. I'm the one who's singing it. Please use this one instead.

4 (26m 13s):
And as a very powerful musician, chances are the powers that be would listen.

6 (26m 21s):
Yeah. That seems to be what's happening,

4 (26m 24s):
But it will ultimately be up to fans about which version to listen to the old version or the new version. Right. And there's something very powerful here when it comes to nostalgia. If your ears keen enough, you're going to hear a difference. And both versions might end up being on streaming platforms, Spotify, or apple music or whatever it's called at this point. And fans will have the ultimate choice here. Is that right?

6 (26m 50s):
Yeah, that is right. I think, you know, her most devoted fans have seen this as a chance to take a moral stand. So they're going to be the ones who are really looking at which version they'll be listening to. They probably already removed, you know, the old versions off of their tailors with playlists. And I think what we're seeing with Taylor's music is that she understands it's not just the song. She really wants to get her fans on board with the idea that she is in this process with them. That nostalgia is not just about the art itself, but it's about your connection to the art. I think this entire endeavor is an example of how Taylor swift is not just an artist, but also a shrewd business woman, which I think has always been there.

6 (27m 38s):
Right? Her father is a businessman. She's picked up some tricks, I think over the years. But I think this just goes to show she's both able to go tit for tat, with a businessman and continue to be a creative storyteller through her music. What's that

4 (28m 15s):
Surely Lee's a staff writer@theatlanticwhereshewritesaboutcultureandyoucanfindherworkattheatlantic.com. I'm Sean Robins from this is to explain

5 (28m 25s):
<em></em> put in the work. They wouldn't shake their heads. And question, how much of this I deserve focus brewed from my good ideas,

0 (29m 7s):
Cover story, a new investigative podcast from New York magazine. That's uncovering some secrets from the psychedelic underground.

18 (29m 14s):
So basically in December of 2019, Dave got an email from this woman. Hi there,

4 (29m 22s):
California

1 (29m 23s):
Institute of integral studies in the weekend program. I hadn't experienced in my first two years where I was essentially recruited by a TA into an underground guide training program.

18 (29m 34s):
She had been training to become a psychedelic therapist with Francoise and her husband in this underground training program that they had. Hello. And she'd already reached out to James Kent, another podcast, or that we know, oh, this is James. Hi. How are you? Because she was feeling really weirded out. I felt like I woke up from something and I was like, who else is awake? You're on speakerphone. Do you mind if I record this conversation, listening to the tape of her, I was just sort of reaching out to you. Cause I'm like it happening. It's really clear that she was trying to find other people who understood what she'd been through or who could see what she saw.

18 (30m 15s):
I'd really appreciate it. If you didn't use my name or anything. Oh no. For now. And eventually she was sent to us. I was searching for anyone who like would get it and talking to her is actually what really kicked off our investigation. Check out, cover story, season one, power trip on apple or wherever you listen.

19 (30m 38s):
If you want to disappear successfully fake your death successfully, you've got to be on the job every minute of every day for the rest of your life.

2 (30m 50s):
Criminalized, the podcast about crying.

20 (30m 52s):
I remember the prosecutor telling me, well, you're not going to see your husband for at least 54 years. And I remember looking into, into the news camera and, and I said, you want to bet

2 (31m 5s):
Stories of people who've done wrong.

18 (31m 7s):
I loved both. Had I think I was addicted to the crime, as well as the drugs.

2 (31m 13s):
People who've been wrong.

21 (31m 15s):
I didn't know what to believe, but I didn't understand as a 20 year old, how bad things happen to good people. I did not understand that at all. And it didn't seem fair.

2 (31m 23s):
And people who've gotten caught someplace in the middle.

22 (31m 27s):
My sister had wrote to John and asked John, how was the ride out to Alcatraz? He said, well, the ride was good, but it was going the wrong way.

2 (31m 37s):
I'm Phoebe judge. And this is criminal. Now part of the Vox media podcast network.