4 (1s):
Before we start learn about art learn about math learn with your heart learn about tech learn design. Learn engineering grapes into wine. So many options to learn as you grow. Try it for free @ QE co.com / explained Alex Ward National Security Vox late on Tuesday you slack me a 15 page PDF along with lots of proclamations.

4 (42s):
What were you so excited about this was the testimony I had been waiting for and I think a lot of the country been waiting for it to see wait a minute. Was there actually a quid pro quo with Ukraine and based on this testimony. We might have found it and you're referring to the testimony of Ukraine Ambassador William Tate. Billy T. As no one calls him tete a tete as many people call another person. Are you ready for? How did Taytay enter The Fray Taytay Into The Fray frame I being subpoenaed to appear in front of house committees that are conducting the impeachment inquiry what he found is that basically everything we've already heard so far from previous people testifying was not the full story.

4 (1m 26s):
How does William Taylor get the top job representing the United States and Ukraine? So you may remember that the Trump Administration on ceremoniously pushed out the Venom basser to Ukraine mahshi, Ivanovich over these allegations that aren't corroborated at all that she was working against Trump and did not like him and basically because of that Giuliani and others got Trump to bring her home early. So Secretary of State Mike Pompeo needs to find someone and he finds Taylor and late May Taylor was working at a think tank in Washington called a u.s. Institute of Peace and he had been an ambassador. Ukraine before and Taylor was pretty clear with Pompeo. Like if I'm taking this job.

4 (2m 6s):
I am going to be supporting a pretty strong foreign policy towards Ukraine meeting giving them. Lethal Aid to fend off Russia and pompeyo goes a okay Taylor goes knowing full well and having consulted with jovanovic about everything that was kind of going on behind the scenes so that he was privy to the whole situation but he cares so deeply about Ukraine and if you read his testimony, he's quite passionate about it. It makes perfect sense that he would take the job regardless. So once he's on the scene according to this testimony that was released on Tuesday what happens so Taylor finds that there are two foreign policies happening towards Ukraine one that he deems the regular one, which is you know, how any regular foreign policy towards another country Works through the state department Through official channels through the Ambassador, but that's normal.

4 (2m 49s):
That's all well and good then he finds out there's this irregular policy, which is spearheaded in particular by Rudy Giuliani Trump's personal lawyer Gordon Sunland the US ambassador to the EU. Kurt Volker who used to be the special Envoy towards Ukraine and with a little bit of energy secretary Rick Perry thrown on the side, it's these three men that seemed to be leading a as some would call it a shadow foreign policy towards Ukraine Taylor calls it in a regular foreign policy where basically they're trying to get something out of Kiev That official channels would not try to get out of Kiev, but you really need to know about what he found is that that the official and unofficial foreign policies really diverges in a dramatic and arguably corrupt way.

4 (3m 33s):
How does tailored lay this all out? I think we should start with July 10th. So July 10th, there's this white house meeting between Gordon's on on that US ambassador to the EU former National Security adviser. John Bolton Fiona Hill who used to run European Affairs at the White House and then a bunch of Ukrainian officials. Would Taylor's not in this meeting. Taylor's not in this meeting. You may have already heard from press reports and previous testimony that Bolden left that meeting pretty angry and told he'll you should talk to an NSC lawyer about what happened. This is the drug deal meeting Bolton advised her to tell I'll White House lawyers. I'm not part of whatever drug deals sandland and Mulvaney are cooking up exactly the drug deal meeting what we heard from hills testimony.

4 (4m 17s):
And she said this previously was that everyone left that meeting understanding that Sunland conveyed this message that if Ukraine wanted what it wanted that meeting with trump. It would have to commit to investigations.

1 (4m 29s):
Okay, so Taylor's not in this meeting. Why is this a part of his testimony

4 (4m 32s):
because he heard about it afterward and it heard it from people who were in The know about what happened. Meaning what happens next so I think we should go to July 18th where there's this video conference call between government officials in which Taylor is participating and then he hears during this call that basically some people around the table had been instructed not to give that military aid to Ukraine and tailing others, like wait a minute what's going on and what he says quote unquote all that the OMB staff person so that someone who works with the Office of Management and budget. Yep, all that the OWN Be staff person said was that the directive had come from the president to the chief of staff to OMB.

4 (5m 15s):
So to be very clear Taylor lays out that he learned in this official meeting that the president had given order to his chief of staff Mick Mulvaney to then give to the Office of Management and budget to not give the a to Ukraine. So what Taylor's laying out here is that the president directly held up this military aid to Ukraine for some reason right that so now we have a clear implication of the President in this entire Ukraine Aid hold up. We don't know what reason yet, but we do know that this goes to the very top. That's what we know based on Taylor's testimony. Then if you go to July 20th, you have two important conversations that Taylor's apart

1 (5m 54s):
of

4 (5m 57s):
the first is he's talking to Sunland and which silence says that he told zalenski the president of Ukraine to use the phrase. I will leave no stone

1 (6m 7s):
unturned

4 (6m 9s):
regarding the investigations when he inevitably meets Trump in other words. You have silent coaching zalenski to be like yes, mr. President, we will The investigations and we will be very thorough

1 (6m 22s):
sunlen actually told president zalenski what to

4 (6m 24s):
say that is what Taylor implies. He's really says Sunland told me that he had recommended to present solinsky that he used the phrase. I will leave no stone unturned. Hmm. Also on July 20th Taylor has a conversation with a top Ukrainian official in which he says that this official conveyed to me that President solinsky did not want to be used as a pawn in a u.s. Re-election campaign. It's now pretty clear that Ukraine was feeling odd. Pressure here and feeling concerned that Trump was trying to get them to potentially help Trump with 20/20, especially with the bruising investigation which would impact the

1 (6m 60s):
Biden's.

4 (7m 2s):
July 26th Taylor and Volker the former special Envoy for Ukraine, they met with the lenski and while I went well and then they go to the donbas region, which is the eastern part of Ukraine where the Russians have effectively invaded and let me read from Taylor's testimony about what happened that day because it's striking arriving for the briefing in the military headquarters the commander thanked us for security assistance, but I was aware that this assistance was on hold which made me uncomfortable. Wow. And then you have him say Ambassador Volker and I could see the armed and hostile russian-led forces on the other side of the damaged Bridge across the line of contact over 13,000.

4 (7m 45s):
Ukrainians had been killed in the war one or two a week more ukrainians would undoubtedly die without the US assistance. So here Taylor is saying effectively two things one. I know that has held up. They don't and I have to kind of put on a brave face. And two, I know the consequences of holding up this Aid because people will die if Ukraine does not have what it needs to push back against Russians. Hmm But Taylor knows as do we that the state is held up. Although he still unclear exactly. Why is that where the testimony ends? Oh, no, there's more. Let's fast forward to September 1st. Okay, and at this point has the military aid been secured by Ukrainian know that comes out on September 11.

4 (8m 29s):
So we have 10 more days till that happens. Okay, so it's here. That Taylor has a conversation with Tim Morrison who's leading the European Affairs section inside the National Security Council and / Taylor. Testimony Morrison tells Taylor that Sunland had told a Ukrainian official that and I will read directly. The security assistance money would not come until present solinsky committed to pursued the beryllium investigation. Okay. So now we have solid being extremely explicit about what he told a Ukrainian.

1 (9m 2s):
This is

4 (9m 2s):
something that's on loan is completely

1 (9m 4s):
denied doing

4 (9m 5s):
right solemn says there's no quid pro quo right in his own testimony. He said that he talked to Trump. There was no quid pro quo. That's not what we were doing. And in fact even Sandlin says that as late as August, he didn't even know that Purisima had anything to do with the Biden's which is it's beyond belief. But so this is very clear now that you see that's online may not have been as truthful as he should have been and actually one of the meta-narratives of this Taylor testimony that we've already heard is that Sunland did not really tell the truth to Congress. If we'd if you believe Taylor and also volcker who has also talked to the impeachment inquiry. He may not have given his the full story of his

1 (9m 41s):
involvement.

4 (9m 45s):
And wrap this whole thing up on September 8th Saint and Taylor have a phone call and I should read from Taylor's testimony here sunlen tried to explain to me that President Trump is a businessman when a businessman is about to sign a check to someone who owes him something. He said the businessman ask that person to pay up before signing the check the so it's here that you have Solomon being explicit that Trump feels or believes. He is owed something. From Ukraine before they get the money. How did Taylor respond to that? Well, according to Taylor. He says I argued that the explanation made no sense. The ukrainians did not owe President Trump anything and holding up security assistance for domestic political gain was crazy.

4 (10m 29s):
As I have said in my text message to Ambassador Sandlin and vulgar on September 9th. So you clearly have Taylor hearing all of this and saying this looks like a clear quid pro quo that you have Trump asking for a public commitment by Ukraine to Gate for asthma. So the Biden's and the DNC server conspiracy theory in order to get the money Taylor thought it was crazy but solid and volcker who are part of that irregular and separate foreign policy process. We're pushing this to happen. Yeah, and so Taylor just called them all out and his opening statement. I recommend everyone read the full thing because there's a lot more in it and I was gonna read it Alex. All right fine, but even so that's the main thrust that you need to know that Taylor says Basically to lawmakers and people investigating this impeachment inquiry everything you've heard so far is not the full story.

4 (11m 20s):
This is the full story and the full story is there was a quid pro quo and President Trump was involved. We're going to take a break and do more of this in one minute. Hello. Hey Desmond. Is Sean from today explained? How are you? I'm good Desmond. It's no secret to listeners of the show that you are the leading today explained kiwi Co expert and it's also no secret to close listeners of the show that kiwi Co does Halloween costumes and I'm very excited about it. I got to ask. Are you gonna go to Kiwi co.com explain where people can get a free trial to find your Halloween costume.

4 (11m 60s):
Well, I actually wanted to dress up. As the today explain the logo what you're gonna be the today explain logo for Halloween. Yeah. We already got material doesn't mean you're my hero weight are the kid's gonna know it is today explain big and you know Elementary School where you go? Well, I don't think we're as like Halloween parties at the school. Yeah, lots of different cultures going, but I'm going to go trick-or-treating still that's Very considerate of you. I just demand to see photos of the greatest Halloween costume of all time.

4 (12m 40s):
Okay. Alex room at one time the president of the United States and the president of Ukraine had that joint press conference at the United Nations in New York. Totally. No you sure that we had I think good phone call. It was normal. We spoke about many things. But

1 (13m 10s):
what zelinski

4 (13m 11s):
said When Trump publicly asked him if he had been pressured I think and you read it that nobody push it push me. Yes,

1 (13m 20s):
no pressure. It

4 (13m 22s):
was all good. Nothing bad happened. How does that moment and that statement from president zelanski compared to what we see in Bill Taylor's account. It doesn't go. I mean from what we see in the opening statement. You see ukrainians feeling pressured thinking that they might be a pain and a u.s. Election in being What about what US policy was towards Ukraine, whether they're going to get the eight or not clearly if you were sitting in Kiev you were just dumbfounded and worried about what was happening back in Washington. So why would zalenski say that in front of the president because he has to write I mean, it's stupid stuff Lama. See you can't be like, yeah, I felt pressure. This was a shitty thing for Trump to do can't be saying that and look it's possible that a lot did not get to solinsky.

4 (14m 6s):
But what's clear from what we see in the opening statement, is that there were Officials worried about hey, do we have to actually like do what America wants us to do here in order to get what was promised what were their concerns specifically that that have to investigate but Reese mama and Hunter Biden that they'd have to participate in perhaps interfering with the foreign election. What was it explicitly explicitly it was along the lines of again. We don't want to be a pain. I mean, I think that's the most explicit bit of it. Ukraine does not want to be used by Trump or the Trump campaign or whoever to Influence 2020 in any way you also have them being a little skeptical about making this public announcement that the administration wanted which is like you guys have to announce openly that this investigation to prison was going to happen.

4 (14m 56s):
It looks like there was even it was a close call that they almost went on CNN to talk about it. What? Yeah, it was conceded in had agreed. If you'd listened to Taylor's account. They did Miss effectively agreed on some sort of interview and in that interview zalenski was going to say Have their we're going to open this investigation that never happened Taylor thought it was a bad idea went to the ukrainians and confirm twice like you guys aren't doing this right and they were like, no we're not we're not going to be on TV and say it so of course is all Taylor's testimony. So he might make himself more of a hero here being like hey, I was checking in to make sure they weren't doing it was a bad idea. It does seem like it was a Ukrainian decision to pull the interview, but still we were that close right?

4 (15m 38s):
We were that close to having Ukraine effectively acquiesce. To this strong-arming from the Trump Administration. Do we know what stopped him from going on CNN to do this interview? We don't know but zalenski is a comedian turned president and he came to prominence promising to end corruption in Ukraine and I completely changed the style of politics. And so there's a good chance that the people around him or even himself were kind of like if I do this I'm kind of playing into the u.s. Hand. I'm kind of playing into the corruption thing plus the Spurs. Nothing has been done. I don't need to do it. We just don't need this but even so No, it looked like for a moment trouble didn't get what he wanted was the lensky announcing an open investigation on CNN.

4 (16m 24s):
And here's how important to CNN thing was to the administration or at least the idea of it from Taylor's testimony Ambassador. Sandlin said that he had talked to present solinsky and mr. Your Mac who's a top Ukrainian official and told them that although this was not a quid pro quo if present zalenski did not clear things. Ends up in public we would be at a stalemate and I this is Taylor. I understood a stalemate to mean that Ukraine would not receive the much-needed military assistance Ambassador, Sunland said that this conversation concluded with presents olenski agreeing to make a public statement in an interview with CNN. So like this was part of it right that you have Sandlin saying you want the aid you gotta say it openly you gotta say it.

4 (17m 7s):
Otherwise we're going to be right where we're at. And so then you had zielinski being like, all right, fine. I'll say it on CNN And but Insight on

1 (17m 13s):
CNN.

4 (17m 20s):
The Trump Administration seems pretty clearly implicated here and trying to get something out of this deal that will benefit them in the 2020 election. Ukraine seems pretty clearly invested in getting military aid and a meeting with the president where does build Taylor fall into this? What are his motivations Taylor is been very very clear that the US should provide lethal assistance to Ukraine in order to help them fight off the Russians. Like let's not forget the steaks

1 (17m 49s):
here. This is the first fight that that we see this is the first battle that that we see in this the first priority for for the United States while I am here

4 (18m 0s):
in Ukraine. The stakes here is that Russia invaded Ukraine in 2014, and there are still Russians in Ukraine today, and there's a war happening there thousands of died and more will and Taylor kind of took the job saying like I'm going to support lethal Aid to Ukraine. So the fact that it was being held up and he didn't know why clearly Jerked him the other reason Taylor seems to get caught up in this and cares about it. So deeply is because he worries that like look if Ukraine can't fend off Russia if Russia ends up kind of taking over Ukraine, then this whole idea of Ukraine becoming a European country of like a continent whole free and at peace it's over and so this is massive. Do you political stakes?

4 (18m 40s):
And Taylor is trying to both walk this line of like following u.s. Foreign policy as it usually is and pushing off the Russians while also trying to manage this nonsense of like, oh you will only get the Money if you do what Trump wants and looking into the bite and so like he's clearly conflicted on what's going on. But Taylor has a plan get them the money helped save Ukrainian lives any he pulled that off in the end whether he did it or not, like personally, we don't know but yes the hold on. The Ada was left on September 11th. Taylor is now still overseeing a policy in which the u.s. Is giving lethal support to Ukraine in order to fend off Russia. If Taylor delivered some sort of Smoking Gun yesterday. Where does that leave him in?

4 (19m 20s):
This position and in this diplomatic position with Ukraine as part of the Trump administration's State Department. It's hard to see how effective he'll be because he just called out Trump, right? He implicated Trump in this entire thing effectively laid out a quid pro quo Trump was involved that everyone in Trump's orbit. The giuliani's the somnolence the volkers have either light or not told the full truth about what they were doing and then you had the White House and Trump effectively called Taylor out the White House Tonight says this about the testimony by the top Diplomat in Ukraine quote President. Trump has done nothing wrong. This is a coordinated smear campaign from far left lawmakers and radical unelected.

4 (20m 4s):
Bureaucrats Waging War on the Constitution. There was no quid pro quo. So how do you continue to represent the United States? Remember ambassadors? Yes, they're part of the state department, but they really are like the figurehead for America in that country and they report to the

1 (20m 18s):
president.

4 (20m 24s):
But Taylor here is saying there was something corrupt and bad happening here. And I'm going to call you out because I have the gravitas to do it. I've seen it happen and he's not part of Trump World here. Right? Like Volker was a part-time special Envoy that Trump gave the job to Sunland is a trump donor who got this cushy job representing America and the European Union Yes. Taylor was picked by Pompeo to take over. Taylor is a career official he is not a trump guy and so he saw something bad. He called it out and it is a reminder that there are Bill Taylor's out there that there are people whose only job is to represent America and to do what they feel is the right thing for the government and for the country and that they will rise up and stand up when they feel like they need to and this is very clearly Taylor stand up

1 (21m 14s):
moment. Are you ready for? Before we go

4 (21m 27s):
Q Eco projects for kids. I know, you know learn about math learn about snow learn about art and how trees grow learn with your sis learn with your bro. Try it for free @ QE co.com / explained