0 (1s):
The Tampa Bay Times released some video footage last week that ended up being a roshak test for the country. You either see some confused people being arrested for a crime they had no idea. They committed.

1 (14s):
Let, let's walk over to my car.

2 (15s):
See y'all doing this now. And, and this happened years ago. I don't know why would y'all let me vote if I wasn't or what? Able to vote

0 (23s):
Or you see the authorities policing one of the most consequential crimes in the country. Voter fraud.

3 (29s):
I'm like, voter fraud. I voted, but I ain't fraud. Commit no fraud.

0 (32s):
If you're in the former camp, you're outraged by Florida Governor Ron DeSantis. If you're in the latter camp, DeSantis is your guy. Either way to Santas wins. And maybe that's how he wins Florida in a few weeks and maybe one day, the nation that's ahead on today explain.

4 (51s):
Someone needs to grab that little elf and chuck him across.

5 (54s):
The

6 (1m 0s):
Taylor Swift is releasing her 10th album this week, and it will most likely be a hit, like everything she's ever done.

7 (1m 9s):
I'm never gonna call her avant garde, but she's far more innovative than most people give her credit for. And I think she will go down as one of the greats in arguably.

6 (1m 20s):
But this is a good time to assess her career and legacy, the meaning of Taylor's Swift. This week on Intuit VULs culture podcast

0 (1m 36s):
Today explained, I'm Sean Ramas firm, and this is Lawrence Maer.

8 (1m 40s):
I'm a Tallahassee correspondent for the Tampa Bay Times and the Miami Herald.

0 (1m 44s):
Last week, Lawrence and the Tampa Bay Times published a story that was so shocking. The whole country stopped to notice. It made international news. The video features convicted felons, people convicted of murder and sex crimes to be specific, being arrested for having voted in violation of Florida law. And these videos had a whole lot of people in their feelings about these convicted felons.

8 (2m 9s):
We put this out there thinking that this is different. This is a different take on a different view of this topic. You know, Whitney, seeing these people get arrested for voting is not, it's just not something you see every day. I think that, you know, you look at someone like Ramona Oliver. 55 year old woman spent 18 years in prison for second degree murder. She's got a job. She's been remarried since leaving prison. She's arrested on her way to work.

3 (2m 42s):
I'm like, Commit no thought.

1 (2m 45s):
Well, so that's the thing. I, I don't know exactly what happened with it, but you, you do have a warrant. That's what it's

3 (2m 51s):
For. Okay. Oh my God.

1 (2m 53s):
Yeah. So I don't know what happened with that.

8 (2m 57s):
She looks like a grandma. In another case of Tony Patterson, a guy who's a registered sex offender, he stopped outside of his house and please tell him you've got a warrant for your arrest. And he says, What? For?

9 (3m 10s):
What it is it, I think the agents with FDLE talked to you last week about some voter fraud voter stuff when you weren't supposed to be voting, maybe

8 (3m 20s):
Was for voter fraud. And he just, you can see from the video that he can't really believe it. I

2 (3m 24s):
Didn't.

9 (3m 25s):
So what they talking about that's what you're, we're not the case agents, but what you gotta do, they, they have reduced your bond quite a bit. It, it's two felony charges for voter fraud, but they reduced it to $500 bonds. So it's a thousand dollars. So, oh

2 (3m 41s):
My God, man. What?

9 (3m 43s):
Yes, sir.

8 (3m 44s):
You know, you hear him stewing at the backseat of the car, of the police car.

9 (3m 49s):
Let's walk over to my car.

2 (3m 50s):
This is y'all doing this now? And and this happened years ago. I

9 (3m 53s):
Don't know.

10 (3m 53s):
I I have no idea, man.

2 (3m 56s):
Why wouldn't y'all let me vote if I wasn't, wasn't able to vote.

8 (4m 0s):
And, and there's another telling video, A guy by the name of Nathan Hart, he's also a sex offender.

10 (4m 6s):
He says, Hey, are you ready to, I said, No, I'm, I'm pretty sure I can. He goes, Well, you still on probation? He said, No, I got off probation like a month ago. He goes, Well, then you could probably vote. Hey, just fill out the form and if you can vote, then they'll let give you card. You have vote, then you won't. Like, alright,

8 (4m 29s):
You know, he was given a voter ID card, even though he was not allowed to vote. The state did an initial check and cleared him and he voted in 2020,

10 (4m 38s):
Then here's your defense. You know what I'm saying?

8 (4m 58s):
That's pretty extraordinary. It's not every day that you hear a police officer lending advice on a sex offender's defense while they're arresting that person. And in, in other cases too, in one of the other videos, you can hear the police officer pick up the, a cell phone call from someone. And they're clearly talking about, in this case, Tony Patterson's arrest

11 (5m 23s):
Coming in. Yeah,

12 (5m 25s):
Yeah. I guess they're doing like some kind of roundup thing or something for all the ones that were within the county.

11 (5m 30s):
Yeah, I had to do one of these this morning already.

8 (5m 33s):
Oh, really? And so local police seem maybe skeptical or as I write, I wrote that they seemed almost sympathetic to these people's situations. Here it's not a, the kind of typical perception you have here when you hear murderers and sex offenders and these people's reactions challenge the laws that they're being accused of violating. They're being accused of willfully violating the law, willfully voting when they were ineligible. And I mean, just look at the videos. Does it seem like these people knew that they were violating the law at the time?

8 (6m 14s):
I think there's probably a real question there for a lot of people, perhaps even a jury, whether or not these people seem to have willfully violated the law.

0 (6m 24s):
And, and to understand what's going on in these videos, you have to understand Florida's Amendment four, which we covered back on the show in 2018. But can you remind us what that amendment spelled out?

8 (6m 33s):
Amendment four. It allowed anyone with a felony conviction to vote if you did not have a felony sex offense on your record. If you did not have a murder on your record, and if you had completed all terms of your sentence, you know, Amendment four when it passed was considered the greatest expansion of democracy in the United States since the Civil rights movement we're talking up to 1.4 million people in Florida, presumably getting the right to vote back.

13 (7m 17s):
Florida's Republican legislature passed a law to clarify the amendment. It defines all terms of sentence as more than just time served parole and probation. It also means that felons have to pay their financial penalties. And so out of nearly one and a half million felons who regain the right to vote, 774,000 lost the right because of debt.

0 (7m 44s):
And Governor DeSantis comes into office in 2019. What's his relationship to amendment for?

8 (7m 51s):
He was against amendment for like most of the top Republicans were here. And DeSantis encouraged the legislature to draw a very hard line on the fines and fees issue

14 (8m 1s):
Hours before the Saturday deadline. Governor Ron DeSantis signed a controversial bill that will now limit the number of felons who will be allowed to vote in Florida.

8 (8m 10s):
He's the one who really pushed the legislature to, you know, require people with felony convictions to pay off all fines and fees and restitution of victims before being allowed to vote.

0 (8m 23s):
And then DeSantis sets up a new office to investigate voter fraud, which I imagine is how we get to these arrests.

8 (8m 31s):
And that new office, the Office of Election Crimes and Security, was something that DeSantis requested this year from the legislature. This is a first of its kind office. And these were some of the concerns that some in the legislature had when this office was created. They were wondering how is this office going to be used? This is putting quite a bit of power into a politician's hands.

15 (8m 58s):
The state of Florida has charged and is in the process of arresting 20 individuals across the state for voter fraud.

8 (9m 8s):
In August, he held the press conference to announce the first actions by this office of Election Crimes and Security. He announces 20 people getting arrested. It's no debate they were not allowed to vote. But nevertheless, they were given voter ID cards cleared by the Secretary of State, and were not stopped from going into a polling place and casting a ballot in 2020. Nevertheless, DeSantis announces these arrests touts that these are the first actions by this new office. You know, that these people are gonna pay the price.

0 (9m 42s):
Hmm. But what's clear is that if you buy that there was widespread election fraud in the 2020 election. So far, arresting 20 people who seem to have been confused about whether or not they had the right to vote isn't really getting at some larger conspiracy to commit fraud in elections.

8 (10m 0s):
No, it's not. You know, DeSantis since 2020 has been under pressure from conservatives in Florida to do an audit of Florida's 2020 election, which President Trump won handily in Florida. You know, it was a blowout by Florida standards. You know, it's kind of no secret from the political class that this was a response to pressure from the right to do something about voter fraud. And these 20 arrests don't point to any kind of concerted fraud here. It kind of points to faults with the Santa's own office.

8 (10m 41s):
In fact, you know, the basic question here is why were these people allowed to register to vote in the first place? Why can't the Secretary of State, again, this is DeSantis own office, why can't they still tell you when you register to vote whether or not you're eligible to vote, what

0 (11m 2s):
Is DeSantis after that he will indulge the people who really wanna see him police elections this way when you, you admit that he doesn't even seem to really care that much about it.

8 (11m 12s):
Yeah, well, the, the answer is pretty simple. And is that this is a popular issue and an important issue for his base. You know, he, he has faced criticism from Roger Stone and others that he would not do an audit here. He needs to appear strong on this issue. It's no secret to anyone in Florida, much less nationally that DeSantis wants to run for president. And of course he's running for reelection this year. And so this is an issue in which he may be perceived as vulnerable and it's something that he has some control over.

8 (11m 54s):
You know, he can create an election security force and make arrests, which gets headlines, which makes it look like he's doing something

5 (12m 5s):
More

0 (12m 5s):
With Lawrence on Governor. For now, DeSantis in a minute on today explained, Hey, it's Sean. And when I showed up to vox.com back in November of 2017, I was actually new Sean because there was already a Sean, his name was Sean Illing. We lovingly referred to him as old Sean back in the day. And old Sean has a new podcast called The Gray Area, which was old Vox Conversations. It's a philosophical take on culture and politics and whatever Sean's been thinking about, which tends to be really interesting stuff. We played one of their episodes sometime back in the feed on today, explained about forgiveness, because I just never heard such an interesting dynamic conversation about forgiveness.

0 (12m 56s):
Sean's a bit of a philosopher by trade who happens to work in journalism and every week he's gonna sit down with journalists, authors, academics, and whoever else he wants to, to get some really cool takes in a very hot world. You see what they did there? New episodes of the Great Area drop every Monday and Thursday. Check it out, wherever you listen.

16 (13m 26s):
Cover story from New York Magazine is back. I'm Hannah Rosen, host of season two Seed Money. This season we have a story about a billionaire.

17 (13m 36s):
He's the most articulate, he's the most savvy, he's the most, he's very cunning

16 (13m 41s):
An exy.

18 (13m 42s):
This isn't an aberration that just happened, you know, a couple years ago. This is a pattern of

16 (13m 47s):
Behavior. Many, many women, it's

19 (13m 49s):
Almost like he's using all the women as a startup

16 (13m 52s):
Company. And so, so many lies happens

20 (13m 56s):
Once in everybody's life. And this guy is a master liar, master liar.

17 (14m 2s):
If I can't stop him, I don't think anybody will be able to stop him. And

16 (14m 7s):
What did you think about yourself?

21 (14m 9s):
That I was the dumbest mother in

17 (14m 11s):
The United States.

21 (14m 13s):
He got me good

16 (14m 15s):
Cover story season two, seed money. Listen wherever you get your podcasts,

21 (14m 25s):
The stone like and butter does get my business. He stands up. Why he believes. So don't come down here trying to change things. We're doing all right in the sunshine stage, say out of our business, leave our

0 (14m 52s):
Today explained still here with Lawrence Mauer from the Tampa Bay Times, talking about Florida Governor Ron DeSantis who has national ambitions. But before he gets there, Lawrence, he's still working on a reelection bid in these coming midterms.

8 (15m 7s):
That's right. He's running against former Republican governor Charlie Christ, who's since left the Republican Party. He ran as an independent after one year in office and now he's a Democrat.

22 (15m 22s):
I trust the women of Florida and you can trust me to defend your freedom, to choose to take on the big insurance companies and lower costs for you. Rh Ron DeSantis won't do it. I will.

8 (15m 33s):
He kind of pushed out the other Democratic contenders in the race. He's somebody who in many ways is DeSantis is opposite somebody who likes to kind of kill you with kindness, so to speak. But nevertheless, Charlie Christ faces a real uphill battle here. I mean, not just with money. I mean, DeSantis has been raising money for years now from billionaires across the country. Also grassroots. He's got, I mean, a ton of people sending him money. He has probably a 10 to one advantage now, at least over Charlie Christ in fundraising. And most polls have him with a healthy margin of victory.

8 (16m 14s):
Even though Florida is traditionally a very neck and neck state. I think most people are kind of acknowledging that Charlie Chris is in for a

23 (16m 24s):
Defeat. New poll shows Governor DeSantis has opened an 11 point lead over Democratic challenger, Charlie Chris in the race for governor.

0 (16m 33s):
And meanwhile, DeSantis seems to be burnishing his, his national credibility. When exactly did he start doing that? Because he's only been governor for a few years?

8 (16m 44s):
Yeah, I would say probably with C DeSantis is someone who, he was kind of contrarian to his own party in some ways in Florida. But with Covid, he really took it to another level. If you saw DeSantis at the beginning of the pandemic, he was not someone who was really fucking the national experts. He did shut down the state. He may have been late to do it, but he did shut down Florida. However, you started to see him come into his own by bucking the national experts. You know, he was all about the vaccines. He was quick to get the vaccines distributed here and then quick to ignore them.

24 (17m 27s):
Monday, Governor DeSantis made his position clear, vowing to protect workers who refused the shot. People

25 (17m 33s):
That have put in 10, 15, 20 years and now they're just gonna get cast aside by some onerous mandate that is wrong.

8 (17m 44s):
He was somebody who reopened the state sooner than a lot of experts thought.

25 (17m 49s):
There's, Florida is only one of a handful of states in the country where a hundred percent of the parents have the ability to send their child for in person instruction.

8 (17m 59s):
That was pretty popular here. He was popular with other Republicans in other states and he became kind of a national leader for bucking Anthony Fauci.

4 (18m 10s):
Someone needs to grab that little elf and chuck him across

5 (18m 14s):
The potoma.

8 (18m 20s):
He's someone who quickly recognized that some Americans at least did not have much patience for lockdowns and covid restrictions and embrace that.

0 (18m 35s):
Do we get any sense from his time in office where he wants to take the party if he does in fact become its leader? One day?

8 (18m 44s):
Not particularly. You know, DeSantis is someone who has characterized himself as a Teddy Roosevelt Republican. Hmm. In the environmental sense, in particular in Florida water. The environment is instrumental to our, our identity as a state. People come here for the, the beaches and DeSantis did buck his own party here by actually acknowledging climate change.

25 (19m 15s):
The sea rise may be because of human activity and the changing climate. You know, maybe it's not, I don't know. But what I do know is I see the sea rising. I see the increased flooding in South Florida. So I think you'd be a fool not to consider that an issue that we need to address.

8 (19m 31s):
He's an opportunist in many ways, not unlike Trump. They both have kind of hardened instincts. DeSantis would certainly think of himself as, you know, he's very different than Trump in the sense of, you know, you talk to people who have worked for him and DeSantis will memorize pages of a three ring binder and be able to say, Now on page 25, the third paragraph, it says this, and you just told me something different. He is willing to get into the weeds on details that Trump never showed even the remotest interest in. But DeSantis is someone who it's, it's not exactly clear where he wants to take the party.

8 (20m 14s):
It's clear that he wants to make it in his own image, but it's not exactly clear what his identity is.

0 (20m 21s):
And, and since Covid we've had, don't say gay, we've had famously him flying Venezuelan migrants to Martha's Vineyard and creating this new office of election fraud and, and going after people who don't seem to have been trying to commit election fraud. How is this strategy going for him?

8 (20m 42s):
Well, by all accounts is going well. I mean, of course if he loses in the reelection that that'll say something, but he's got a message that certainly some people like. But really it's about getting attention. You know, this is a candidate who is in office because he got Trump's attention when DeSantis was in Congress. He was a, for lack of a better term, a backbencher congressman who never got a single bill passed of his own accord. He's somebody who frequently voted no on stuff. He's part of the Freedom Caucus. And he did virtually no campaigning in Florida for the governor's office until Trump endorsed him.

8 (21m 25s):
And in Congress he went after the Mueller investigation. He was on Fox News all the time trying to get Trump's attention and Trump's endorsement. Hmm. And in the race for governor in 2018, that's what he got. And you saw him overnight turn into the front runner in that race. And DeSantis went all in on Trump.

26 (21m 47s):
Everyone knows my husband Ron DeSantis is endorsed by President Trump, but he's also an amazing dad. Ron loves playing with the kids, build the wall. He reads stories.

27 (21m 57s):
Then Mr. Trump said, You're fired. I love that

0 (22m 1s):
Part. And how does the former president who endorsed him and essentially made Governor DeSantis feel about him now?

8 (22m 10s):
Well, there's been quite a lot of media coverage of that. I mean, it, it seems to be no secret that Trump is not thrilled with DeSantis rise

28 (22m 20s):
As Trump flirts with another presidential run in 2024. He is reportedly upset. The DeSantis refuses to rule out a run against him feeling the Florida governor is not showing enough gratitude towards

8 (22m 31s):
Him. Trump is right. Trump did make DeSantis without Trump's endorsement. DeSantis would almost certainly not be governor of Florida. The odds were well against him. And he had put in virtually no effort into his campaign until Trump's endorsement. And there's been a lot of reports of Trump behind the scenes, you know, denigrating DeSantis in various ways, saying he has no personality and and whatnot. And yeah, like all of Trump's insults, there's some truth to them. Deep down in some weird distorted way, there's some truth. DeSantis isn't is a, a very insular guy.

8 (23m 13s):
He's someone who trusts his own instincts and he's not someone who's easily pushed over even by someone like Trump. This is, I mean, DeSantis best chance of running for president is when he is a sitting governor. He's got the attention now. He's obviously shown to be adept at occupying the national attention of Republicans for all kinds of policy issues in Florida. And that's obviously the ideal springboard to the presidency.

0 (23m 48s):
So what I'm getting from you is Ron DeSantis was a, a highly forgettable congressional representative. Then he makes his entire identity about trying to get the former president's attention for a gubernatorial endorsement. Then he gets, it has literally no other platform than I got the endorsement of the sitting president becomes governor and has made some minor policy adjustments to Florida, but is chiefly pulled all these stunts in order to garner more national attention. And now he has it. And very may well be a successful presidential candidate one day who most of us will still not really have any understanding of.

0 (24m 35s):
Is that the deal?

8 (24m 37s):
That's right. And you know, he's still someone we don't really know much about. But if he sees a political opportunity for himself, he has been willing to seize it.

0 (24m 57s):
Lawrence Mauer, Tampa Bay Times, sometimes the Miami Herald too. Check out his journalism on convicted felons. Being arrested for voter fraud@tampabay.com. Our program today was produced by Fiona Petros and Miles Bryan. They had helped putting it together from Paul, Robert Mosey, Jillian Weinberger, Laura Bullard, and Matthew Colette. I'm not sure. I'm Sean Ram firm you've been listening to today. Explained.