2 (4s):
Hey, I'm Sean Rama's firm. We're doing a new thing it today explained a coronavirus update at the top of the show to keep you on top of some of the biggest stories of the day. Here's what we have so far for Wednesday, March 18th. It's official all 50 states now have people who have tested positive for Kovac 19 West Virginia's Governor announced the first positive test result in his State Tuesday evening, at least 100 deaths in the country had now been linked to the Corona virus and the virus has now infected more than 200,000 people worldwide and at least a hundred and forty four countries to who today said Africa should prepare for the worst as case has doubled in South Africa and the United States and Canada have agreed.

1 (50s):
To

2 (50s):
close their border to all non-essential traffic the coronavirus stopped Ohio from voting yesterday, but primaries went ahead as planned in Florida, Illinois and Arizona, Joe Biden swept and Bernie Sanders is now reassessing his campaign President Trump said today that he'd send a thousand bed hospital ship to New York Harbor but a pentagon spokesperson said the ship's being repaired in Virginia right now and probably wouldn't Embark from New York for weeks US Stocks took an oath. Nose dive today that triggered a halt and trading and an MPR Marist poll found that 18 percent of households have already reported. Someone being laid off or having hours reduced because of the Corona virus outbreak women were hit harder than men people who earn less than $50,000 a year were hit harder than those earning more which is just another reminder that this all but inevitable coronavirus recession that's coming will hurt those who are already hurting most.

2 (1m 48s):
So thank your grocery. Workers thank you sanitation workers. Thank anyone doing essential services in your life considered tips. Also, Kevin Durant has tested positive for kovin 19 and it looks at he was recently hanging out with Drake who has now according to page six self isolated in his Toronto Mansion expect some corn Tunes soon. Please write us with your coronavirus questions e-mail today explained at box.com or tweet at us. The show is at today underscore explained. I'm a trauma sphere mmm.

3 (2m 33s):
This episode is brought to you by course correction a production of Doha debates and Qatar Foundation hosted by journalist. Nellie for hidayat each week. Nella fur takes on new challenges to confront the world's problems head on the challenge is to only live on 50 liters of water a day like a shower and connects with the people most affected by global crises.

1 (2m 58s):
Are they put us in a very small cells a presence and so I

2 (3m 1s):
was very dehumanizing

3 (3m 2s):
experience. Challenge yourself to change the world find course correction presented by Doha debates wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (3m 21s):
Hello. Hello. Can anyone hear me? Yes, I can hear you. Who am I speaking with Sean? This is Drew. Hey Drew. This is Sean. How are you

2 (3m 30s):
doing? Well, man. How are you doing

1 (3m 32s):
doing? Okay doing okay, lots of time on my hands.

2 (3m 37s):
Yeah, and who are you with right now Drew

1 (3m 41s):
with my son Trevor and my wife Aggie and we are here in Williamsburg Brooklyn just gathered around the kitchen table.

2 (3m 52s):
So why are you guys just sitting around gathered on a on a Tuesday afternoon

1 (3m 58s):
for fun? I wish I wish it was for fun. But no yesterday. I got my test back that I was positive for covet 19. So on Monday, I was after school. I was talking with my principal and I said and this was this

2 (4m 12s):
is Monday the what like the ninth or whatever.

1 (4m 16s):
Yes. Exactly Monday the 9th. I was talking to my principal. I said count me out for tomorrow. I'm not sure what this is. I said would you prefer I go to the doctor just to have it checked just in case he said yeah do that. So I went to the doctor the next morning. The flu tests came back negative and then they took and the kind of an other viruses test that also came back negative a couple days later. So I'm still out of school, too. Today Wednesday Thursday, my doctor calls me and says I want you to go take a coronavirus test. But here's the thing. I had to actually get on a subway to go take the test because it was we live in Brooklyn the test was being given at a hospital in Manhattan. So I had to do that and then four days later which was which brings us to yesterday is when I found out the results, so in between that time my room was already deep cleaned people were aware of my building that I was being tested and I also sent out emails to all the families.

1 (5m 7s):
Of the students that I teach to let them know that I was being tested as well

2 (5m 10s):
so I could see how complicated this is because you know, you're in New York City your options are sort of limited and how you're going to get from point A to point B at that point when you were going to go take the coronavirus test where you like I should take a car. I should take an Uber and risk infecting the driver if I have something or should I take the subway and risk infecting who knows a dozen people or something. I'm not sure what the process you go through was. What was

1 (5m 36s):
it? I work. Gloves and I had a face mask at that point the from the doctor's appointment the day before so I had gloves in the face mask on I was not coughing at all. So, you know, I'd like to think that I controlled it as best I could but but at the same time when I got there and the doctor interviewed me and he was a specialist in infectious disease specialist. He said after this interview, I normally wouldn't test you because you're not exhibiting any of the symptoms right now, and I said, well, I'd really like I'm here please test me because I need the I need to know this. Get back to work. And so he said all right, but I really be shocked if you were positive. And here we

2 (6m 13s):
are. What did the doctors tell you to do after you got tested

1 (6m 16s):
we were already in a in a self quarantine for a few days since I took the test and once the results came back, they they said assume that everyone else in your in your house. And in this case, we live in an apartment in your apartment has the virus as well Trevor and Aggie have also shown symptoms over the last few days. I started showing symptoms a week ago yesterday. So our other son is so Trevor Trevor's 23 are their son is 20. He's here with us to under quarantine, but he's not showing any any signs yet.

2 (6m 50s):
Oh, no. Should he be there with you? Well,

1 (6m 53s):
that was the that was the question. We ask the doctor and she said yeah, she said it's too late just assume that he has

2 (6m 58s):
it. Oh, okay. I guess I just want to ask how you all are doing.

1 (7m 5s):
We're feeling well we're feeling well, I think we've We've all gone through, you know a slight fever but the fever is gone right now. We've all gone through some body aches and kind of tingly skin sneezing and coughing but everything seems to be improving. I just seem to be a couple days ahead of

2 (7m 21s):
everyone and like emotionally

1 (7m 25s):
emotionally. That's the that's probably the harder part is, you know, here we are, you know, we're kind of facing this new reality and we're also in a city that that is You know the biggest city in the country and they're talking about a possible lockdown and you know, we want to make sure that when we're locked in here that we're going to be able to have our basic needs

2 (7m 45s):
met. Yeah. Yeah. Can I can I hear from Aggie and Trevor is it? Hi Sean? Hey Aggie. Thanks for making time for us. Sure. How about you? How are you feeling? What are your concerns and and and thoughts right now?

3 (8m 1s):
No,

2 (8m 1s):
I'm I'm doing okay. I'm grateful that we get along as well as we do my company recommended that everyone start working remotely a week ago yesterday. So I've been working at home, but yesterday was kind of a rough day and with Drew's diagnosis I decided to take you know, a couple of days off from work. So for me right now, I'm just relieved that we're we're okay and that were here and I don't know. I think I'm just grateful for a couple days of rest. True rest. Yeah. Are you mad at your husband at all? No, no, not at all.

2 (8m 42s):
That's good. I have to ask. I'm sorry. I'm not trying to like Insight domestic strife. Have you been in contact with your doctor's Aggie? So while while Drew was going to get the test our physicians were meeting with Trevor and me via tell a doctor and they were interviewing us. I mean, they were asking us so many questions and they could not find Any Trail back to where we may have contracted it that's the biggest mystery of all because we weren't anywhere where it was that we know of course that we know of yeah, which is just scarier I guess right because this is spreading in New York. It sounds like New York's on the cusp of being in total shutdown and New York state has more cases than any other state in the Union right now.

2 (9m 27s):
Your Governor is calling for military assistance like having it. It'd be sort of unknown feels even scarier. Well, yeah and the doctors did not think that Drew was showing the covert symptoms. They did not think he had it and he pretty much asked for the test so that he could be cleared to go back to work because he would not have been able to go back are thinking at this point is that plenty of people are walking around with it who might not even realize it because it feels like the regular flu or a or a bad cold. All right. Maybe I'll ask Trevor how he feels about

1 (10m 2s):
Okay. Yeah it is. I mean it's a bit nerve-racking for sure. It's a completely new situation. But like my parents said we all get along really well and we've gotten along really well so far. So if I was going to be quarantined with any group of people, I'm happy. I'm happy. It's my family. I can say that I think that something that I guess is weighed heavy on me more than maybe my family is just that I am a I went to school to be an actor and I just got off of a touring gig and a lot of my friends right now are losing jobs because you know Regional Theaters everywhere are shutting down and you know Broadway, they shut down indefinitely Or until I think sometime in April, so that's been something that to Grapple with I guess is as far as employment that's been kind of an interesting situation.

2 (10m 55s):
Well, good luck Trevor. Can I talk to this fourth family member who like doesn't have it? But definitely has it.

1 (11m 3s):
Oh, yeah. Let's see. He's he's in the up to talk to you. He's in the other room right now.

2 (11m 12s):
Is that what qualifies and social distancing in your family? Like he's in the other

1 (11m 16s):
exactly. Well, like we said we've been figuring out how to you know, keep saying with each other in a very small living space here. Is this is Ellie. Yeah sure this up when you when just pieces are this is a lie. And he sounds just like Trevor in me. Yeah. Hello. Okay. Hello Elliot Hi, how are

2 (11m 35s):
you? My name is Shawn. I host a podcast called today explained and we're trying to explain what it's like to get. Kovin 19 with the rest of your family today.

1 (11m 44s):
Yeah, I can give an outsider's perspective from inside the quarantine I guess. I don't I don't remember which day it was at this point. But I just I was just laying in bed and I just woke up and I'm not fully mentally there when I first wake up in the morning and my dad's just leaning in my room and says hey I have to go and get tested for Coronavirus. Like I'm not really not feeling well and I was just kind of shocked and I had to go about my day which was weird and I've, you know been kind of been playing catch-up because I'm still in school and I have a part-time job, and I've been emailing my managers at my job. I've been the head of my program at school trying to you know, keep them updated on the situation and trying to keep everybody updated that I might have been in contact with it's just kind of nervous or kind of nerve-wracking but like I tell everybody.

1 (12m 35s):
Yeah, I you know, like I haven't shown any symptoms yet. And while you know, it's pretty much widely suspected that people in the like the younger you go the more likely it is that people can be silent carriers. There isn't enough, you know evidence to sufficiently say whether or not you're more infectious in this period you're less infectious whether or not you can transfer it while you still have it which is kind of the thing. I have to keep reminding myself to not try to feel you know, like I just spread it to all my friends and everything but or to us, oh patient zero in the household. Yeah. It was it was me. It was me. It was me all along.

2 (13m 17s):
We really brought you out here to confront

1 (13m 19s):
you. Yeah. We're actually changing his name to the silent carrier. Y'all are larious.

2 (13m 30s):
You're like you're like the Norman Rockwell portrait of

1 (13m 33s):
cop?n Dynasty. Just the best possible version.

2 (13m 39s):
What do you think? I mean because this will be heard by lots of people who don't have this yet who are you know, seeing the news coming out of New York state which is worrisome to anyone around the country and especially maybe people in New York and this everyone promises this will get worse before. It gets better or what. Would you tell people who are you know living alongside you and Beyond about you know how to best prepare themselves mentally and even physically for what's to come? Well, I would say first two to follow the instructions that were being given to do, you know to keep far away from people to stay in

1 (14m 18s):
as much as possible, you know, all of that. I mean that's that obviously is happening a little too late and a lot of places but just listen do what they're saying. Stay home. I think that there's also at least for me because I still you know, haven't shown any symptoms or anything. There's One thing that's helped me a lot is staying as informed as possible and trying to find information from as many different news sources possible because I think one of the things that's kind of been affecting me is like, you know for the past five five or so nights like every night as I'm falling asleep. It's kind of a thought of like what if I just wake up tomorrow and I start feeling symptoms.

1 (15m 1s):
and if I let that fear grab hold of me, it's going to You know not allow me to think as logically and is rationally as I should be able to think so just don't let that it's just it's not worth your time to let the fear control you it's just best to keep a level head and you know respond appropriately to everything that you're seeing in the

2 (15m 25s):
news, you know, make sure you have

1 (15m 30s):
some some basic supplies in your in your place figure out who can deliver to you if it's needed to be delivered. You need to stay in. And don't go out. Yeah, stay calm.

2 (15m 42s):
We'll pass that on. I really hope you all get better ASAP Rocky Elliot Drew. Aggie and Trevor. Thank you.

1 (15m 50s):
Yeah, thank you. All right.

2 (15m 58s):
In a moment, I'll talk to Dylan Scott at Vox. He's got the latest on getting tested in the United States. Its today

3 (16m 3s):
explained.

2 (16m 17s):
A of all these coronavirus and covet 19 business has you feeling like you need to speak to a professional better help is here for you better help has a team of licensed counselors standing by these are professionals who specialize in depression and anxiety. I've been hearing that there's some depression and anxiety in the air right now. The better help counselors are also ready to discuss grief and Trauma and stress and anger and relationships. Whatever. It is you want to talk about better help has a counselor standing by for you. You can connect privately with a better help counselor through texts through phone calls through video calls and get help on your own time at your own pace at a rate.

2 (16m 57s):
You can actually afford it's pretty flexible. And if you sign up right now, you'll get 10% off your first month with the code explained. So visit better help.com explained today that is better help.com explain and there's temper sent off when you sign up.

3 (17m 22s):
Tech has consequences and recode by Vox is exploring them all with the new multi-platform journalism project called open sourced through videos and articles open-source to explore and demystify controversial issues surrounding technology everything from facial recognition and surveillance to how add micro-targeting will affect the 2020 election. The project is supported by omidyar Network a Global Network of innovators entrepreneurs and technologists committed to addressing the most Whole economic technological and societal issues of our time check out open sourced at vox.com open-sourced find out everything you need to know about the hidden consequences of tech box.com open sourced.

2 (18m 14s):
Dawn Scott you cover health care for Vox how hard is it to get tested in America right

4 (18m 18s):
now? So testing capacity has increased dramatically as of Tuesday. We were able to run about 37,000 tests in a day as of Tuesday. We had conducted more than 50,000 tests which is up from less than 8,000 at the end of last week. So but just to be

2 (18m 38s):
clear here, you know, testing 30,000 people. A day is not even close to being able to test one percent of the population. It's not even close to a tenth of a percent of the population in a day. Exactly. And I think that one thing to

4 (18m 54s):
appreciate here is you know, if we had been had really robust testing to start as a country like South Korea did it might have been a lot easier to contain the virus to you know, figure out where it was who had it and take much more targeted steps to try to fix it. But because we had such week testing to start we've had to resort to these much more dramatic social distancing measures, you know closing schools telling people to work from home canceling large Gatherings because we just don't know exactly how widespread the Corona virus is in the United States because we haven't been testing

2 (19m 31s):
enough. Let's talk about the process here. If you actually think you might have this I mean, how is that changing right now? First off? Is it still you know? You feel you've had a fever for a few days and sore muscles call your doctor first. Yes. I think that we

4 (19m 47s):
still want people to sort of growth have sort of a normal medical regiment. So if you don't feel very good, you know think you might have a slight fever you feel a little achy. You've got a cough. Don't go to work. Try not to come to in contact with other people. And yes call your doctor try to arrange an appointment. We don't want as much as we want people to be cognizant of their symptoms and seeking help if they need it. We also don't want to be Be overloading our hospitals because we already expect that. The Corona virus cases are going to exceed the amount of care that our hospitals are able to provide.

2 (20m 20s):
Okay. Well, let's see you get to the point where you do actually need to be tested for covet 19 in the United States knowing how limited the test still are and knowing that the country is currently over capacity. What happens then where do you go to get tested now hospitals are the primary

4 (20m 35s):
places conducting tests? I think they're also being distributed to Physicians offices as you know capacity allows. How's there have been some places particularly in Seattle that have set up like drive-thrus for people to come through pull up in their car get their swabs taken and have those samples sent out to the labs to be tested. So it's definitely worth checking with your doctor. It's worth checking if there's one of those pop-up testing clinics in your area. If you get tested and you test positive for Kovac 19, what happens from there is probably going to depend on a lot on your symptoms. Eames and how you seem to be handling it for a lot of people home care is probably going to be enough, you know, if you just have a low-grade fever you little bit of aches and pains drop the yellow light dry cough the hospital and the doctors are probably going to send you back home tell you not to contact anybody isolate yourself Etc.

4 (21m 30s):
What were worried about is the most vulnerable populations people who you know older people are people with underlying medical conditions in their hearts of their lungs that can make them more vulnerable to the virus and those people are potentially going to be

1 (21m 41s):
Asked to

4 (21m 42s):
stay in the hospital for a few days to be monitored. And obviously if your symptoms progress significantly enough that you know, you're having trouble breathing on your own or have other complications arising then you're probably going to be putting in intensive care unit and have to stay at the hospital like for a matter of weeks, you know both to make sure that your body can continue functioning and then to make sure that you're recovering from the virus fully. I think something that's important to understand is like it's especially for younger people. It's a really small percentage of the population who are going to require hospitalization, even if they do get infected like we're talking just a couple of percent of people but when you look at people who are older like 50 and over 60 and over they are much more likely to need hospitalization at least for monitoring or they'll need to be put in an intensive care unit to make sure that their body doesn't fail them.

4 (22m 30s):
So that's where this wide range of the symptoms that people experience because of covet 19 comes into play. It can be everything from you. Don't really feel bad at all. You're like, Idris, Elba. You tested positive, but you don't feel sick. Yeah, and it sucks. Listen, I'm doing okay. I didn't have any symptoms. I got tested because I realized I was exposed to someone who had also tested positive or it can escalate all the way up to severe pneumonia and death most likely for the elderly. And so that's one of the most tricky things about both identifying this disease and then treating it

2 (23m 9s):
tell me how it works in the United States as far as hell. Health Care coverage is concerned are you paying out of pocket for the tests? Are you paying you know an arm and a leg for the hospital treatment? If you get to that point so obviously in

4 (23m 23s):
general America has some of the highest out-of-pocket costs in the world people here are much more likely to skip medical care including for serious conditions because of the high out-of-pocket costs and that's a problem for a situation like this when you want people to seek care and you don't want costs.

1 (23m 41s):
Be a barrier

4 (23m 42s):
now. There's a little bit of variation here. And this is another one where it's like you got to check with your own health insurance company, but there have been some states like California and New York where the governor's have issued executive orders that require either their State Medicaid Program and the individual or small business private insurance plans that are regulated by the state to provide testing and treatment for covet 19 free to the patient and we have just just seen Anthem one of the biggest health insurance companies in the country announced that they are going to wave co-pays and out of other cost-sharing obligations for patients who are tested for need to be treated for covert 19.

4 (24m 24s):
So there does seem to be you know, a recognition that we don't want people to avoid seeking care because they're worried about the costs. We don't want people to be hit with four thousand dollar bills if they end up being quarantined or hospitalized because of this situation, but it's very much a piecemeal approach the problem. A big federal law that governs large employer health insurance plans that cover about half of Americans those plans are not subject to the state executive orders for those people, which is a lot of us. We're going to depend on these kind of voluntary measures that these Health insurers are willing to take in reaction to the crisis. One other thing that I just found out is that the CDC does think it has the authority to cover the costs of tests and Aunt for uninsured people in theory, they could be hit with the full cost of what it takes to be tested or treated for covet 19, but it looks like CDC will be able to pick up those

2 (25m 20s):
bills Dylan. I feel like a lot of people out there right now are worried and the things that they're hearing aren't inspiring confidence. We were late to this whole thing to begin with. Our testing was not up to where it should have been now. We're playing catch-up and we're still not at capacity Governor Cuomo is calling for the military to come in and give him more ha Little beds and it still hasn't even happened. I mean you're hearing from readers right now at vox.com. What are they saying? Are they are they scared? I think primarily people are are scared

4 (25m 54s):
and they feel like they don't know what's going on. We have a healthcare newsletter called Vox care that's going out three times a week now during the covet 19 outbreak. You can sign up for it at vox.com backslash Fox care. I've put out a call over the last week or so for questions and I do think the three lines about this are you know, what are my risks? What is the disease feel like and then just like what am I allowed to do? Am I allowed to go outside of my house? I will I got an email from a woman this week that I will not forget anytime soon. She said she lived in Northern Ireland. She was 68 years old and had COPD, so certainly somebody who's potentially vulnerable to the Corona virus, but she asked me she was like, can I just take my dog out?

4 (26m 41s):
On the beach and walk by myself, like she just she didn't even know basically if she was allowed to leave her house and take her dog for a walk. And so I think that is a signal both of how scared people are they are they're afraid to do those most basic of their daily activities and they just don't have the information that they need to be able to make decisions about what they can do or what they should

2 (27m 3s):
do and she can take her dog for a walk as long as she practices safe social distancing from other people, right?

4 (27m 10s):
Exactly. Not a Doctor this is not medical advice. But yes, it's okay to go outside. It's okay to take a walk stay six feet away from other people practice good hygiene wash your hands when you get home Etc, but like we are not all being bound to our homes by the authorities, but I think a lot of people feel that way because there is just so much fear and so much Unknown about the pandemic

2 (27m 41s):
you want to give people something to be hopeful about before we go, so

3 (27m 45s):
I

4 (27m 48s):
I'm gonna try to answer this question earnestly. I oscillate all the time between being scared to death and feeling a little more sanguine about the whole situation and the things I've seen from nurses working on the ground from patients who are trying to be really proactive about protecting themselves and protecting other people. I talked to one guy who belatedly God David 19 test in Chicago, but before he ever got tested he had already started calling people. He had been in contact with recently to tell them how he was feeling and that he was worried. He might have coronavirus as it turned out somebody he had been in touch with at his physical therapist office had a father with lung cancer exactly, you know the kind of population that you'd worry about with coronavirus.

4 (28m 40s):
And so that was just him on his own trying to be proactive in trying to help other people. And so when I see that kind of Of stuff and sort of this this slow but steady mobilization across our entire Society like I do think people are thinking outside the box. I do think they appreciate that. It will take an entire Society to get this outbreak under control and that makes me hopeful for as much as the initial response was lacking and too slow. We are starting to get our shit together and even if it's going to be hard and even if it's going to take a long time, we're gonna get

2 (29m 16s):
through it. Tell people where to find your newsletter one more time

4 (29m 21s):
vox.com backslash Fox care. Send me your emails sign up subscribe. I'm gonna do my best to answer them and we'll get through it together.

2 (29m 31s):
Tell people where to find you on twitter.com. Dylan L4

4 (29m 35s):
Lewis, Scott all one word.

2 (29m 38s):
Dylan Lewis Scott. Thanks so

4 (29m 39s):
much. Thank you Sean.