3 (1s):
Super Tuesday. So Andrew Prokop Vox. It's Tuesday explained. We're here in the studio in the middle of the night Tuesday night. We know the

2 (19s):
song we know the stakes. We know what to do. Let's go through it all. What's the biggest takeaway from Super Tuesday? 2020 the biggest takeaway so far. I think is Mike Bloomberg stunning win in American Samoa caucuses could be a real game-changer for his campaign. Ouch harsh wasn't Tulsi supposed to win American Samoa doesn't she have like a connection there? Yeah. Tulsi was born there. So the second place finish for her was a bit of a disappointment considering her home Island Advantage. Maybe she should have run as a Republican. But seriously, what's the major takeaway here?

2 (59s):
It's clearly a good night for Biden. He won the most states. He has solidified his claim as the Democratic establishment candidate in the race, and it's basically going to be him against Bernie going forward Mike Bloomberg and Elizabeth Warren did not do well at all tonight, and the future of their campaigns is in very serious question. It seems that for all intents and purposes. This is bye. in Bernie race Let's talk about what we know at this point region by region starting with the Northeast which is of course where Bernie's from its were warns from how the vote shake out there Biden ended up surprisingly winning, Massachusetts, which has Warren's home state and a neighboring state to Bernie Sanders is Vermont Bernie.

2 (1m 51s):
Of course one Vermont his own home state handily though. It appears that Biden will beat the minimum to get at least some delegates there last time. And Bernie won a hundred percent of Vermont's delegates. So it is at least a little nice for a bite in to pick up a few in Sanders is territory and a bit of a bummer for burning exactly. And in other bad news for Bernie. There is main that is a state that Bernie won last time around at the time. We're recording this it hasn't been called but Biden being competitive there is bad for Bernie. What about the sort of Midwest was?

2 (2m 31s):
Western grab bag States, Minnesota, Colorado, Utah what happened there? So Bernie did well in Colorado and Utah. He did well in both of those States in 2016. So that was expected in Colorado. Especially that's a state that uses mail voting. So it was less vulnerable to a last-minute swing of the type that we may have seen toward Biden in some other states. Then Minnesota is interesting because it was expected to be Amy Klobuchar winning there with Bernie in contention for second place, but of course Klobuchar dropped out endorsed by tin and lo and behold now it is Biden that has one Minnesota, which is also a state that Bernie won in 2016.

2 (3m 18s):
So that's a bit of a blow to Bernie. Let's move to Virginia and the South where Biden was favored. Yeah. Yeah. So Biden was expected to win in many Southern States and we have seen very strong. Wrong results for him across the South most impressively massive wins in Alabama and Virginia also solid wins for Biden in Tennessee, North Carolina and he won Arkansas and Oklahoma as well, which gets us pretty close to Texas who messed with Texas most so Texas ended up being close. This is maybe some of the better news for Bernie Sanders Hillary.

2 (4m 1s):
In one text is big in 2016. She beat Sanders by over 30 points there and unlike the rest of the southern states the outcome in Texas was close. But in the end Texas was called for Biden. It's the second most populous state in the country. So definitely a significant win and the other big state of course night is California whose polls close the latest and will take the longest to find out what happened, but But we establish a Monday that California is a huge player here kind of return to the fold this super Tuesday. Do we have any idea how that's looking so far? It is looking like on a tough night for Bernie Sanders, California is going to be the bright spot based off of Bernie's performance in the exit polls the AP called it for Bernie pretty quickly.

2 (4m 54s):
But the margin in California can change a lot over days and even weeks as a ton of different mail ballots. Are painstakingly slowly counted mail ballots are such a pain. That's why I prefer female ballots. That's sexist. Shaun couldn't help but notice that you didn't really mention Michael Bloomberg at all except for American Samoa. Is he gonna drop out is this like the end of his race? So it was reported that Bloomberg is going to reassess his campaign on Wednesday. He might realize that he's mostly sapping support from Biden because more of his voters would probably pick Biden over Sanders as their second choice.

2 (5m 38s):
I think he's going to have to ask himself. Some tough questions about the future of his campaign and dropping out certainly seems like a distinct possibility. What about Elizabeth Warren? It wasn't a great night for Elizabeth Warren either. She didn't win anywhere doesn't seem like she is going to end up with too many delegates and you know, it raises questions about what her prospects are going forward and what she is hoping to achieve at this point after having lost lost her home state, Massachusetts and failed to gain much ground anywhere else. I mean she is going to have to make up her own mind about what she sees the future of her campaign is so at the end of the day a big night for Biden a good night for Bernie and the race is basically between those two guys now, that's certainly what it looks like and in the end zero dark Wednesday.

2 (6m 35s):
Can we say who won Super Tuesday? It certainly looks like Biden at This point but my caution would be that we really have to see exactly how the delegate count shakes out. There's obviously a lot of excitement and enthusiasm among Biden's team about his comeback about the fact that he's won the most States hear about the fact that Sanders was expected to do quite well on super Tuesday and is way under those expectations, but how it translates into the delegate count. It does. Not seem like this will be a knockout blow for Biden against Bernie Sanders.

2 (7m 17s):
It looks instead like it will be a split but Sanders in the speech he gave on super Tuesday night

3 (7m 25s):
one of us in this race. Let the opposition to the war in Iraq you look at it. It sounded like he very much wanted to press forward and draw some very tough contrast with biting another. candidate voted for the war in Iraq

2 (7m 46s):
So I would say that this race is definitely not over yet. Bernie is going to keep contesting these contests for the foreseeable future. Now we have a lot of other big states that are coming up in the next two weeks by the time that they're over about two-thirds of the total delegates in the Democratic contest will be allotted. So one candidate could build a large large lead by the end of that or it could still be close and All and Bernie and Biden could be battling this out until June.

2 (8m 32s):
Vice President Joe Biden went from being the inevitable candidate to sort of an afterthought and now back to flirting with inevitability again, we'll talk about how that happened and how he might fare against President Trump after a break. Hello, this is Jesse David Fox. I'm a senior editor at vulture and I host the podcast good one a podcast about jokes. It's a podcast about well jokes every

3 (9m 13s):
week. I sit down with a comedian comedy writer or director. We list a one of their jokes and figure out how it all came together. I don't sit down with a pen in the pad and physically write down everything. I just does not my style turns out comedians take jokes pretty seriously. I like all Okay, that's what I do. That's what I live for this really nothing else. I care about it's all very revealing. What did you sort of learn from this? What was your takeaway? All right. Nothing guy. I'm not I'm not a smart person good one from vulture and the Box media podcast Network subscribe for free on Apple podcasts or on your favorite podcast app. You do not to use the puck is a

2 (9m 52s):
parade. Oh, what a great question. Just see David Fox.

3 (9m 57s):
12 2012

2 (10m 3s):
Lauren again politics editor here box. What is going on with Joe Biden right now Joe Biden a couple of weeks ago. It looked like he was down for the count. He had some really embarrassing losses and early States and then recently, he's become much more popular

3 (10m 20s):
CNN projects that Joe Biden is the winner in South Carolina. This is the former vice president's first. Primary Victory he was counting on South Carolina to help keep his campaign going this gives

2 (10m 32s):
he's having a bit of a surge moment. Thanks to a lot of big-time Democrats throwing their weight behind him. I'm

3 (10m 39s):
looking for a leader. I'm looking for a president who will draw out what is best in each of us and I'm encouraging everybody who was part of my campaign to join me because we have found that leader in vice president soon to be President Joe Biden

2 (10m 55s):
to of his main competitors. Repeat Buddha judge, the former mayor from Indiana and Amy Klobuchar from Minnesota both announced that they were backing out of the race pre super Tuesday and that they were instead throwing their weight behind him. If you

3 (11m 11s):
feel tired of the noise in the nonsense and our politics and if you are tired of the extremes, you have a home with me and I think you know, you have a home with Joe

2 (11m 24s):
Biden and this was a pretty big deal. Because they were really vying for the same sort of space that he occupies a certain more moderate position vis-a-vis Bernie. How surprising was that? Some of these people who we've seen time and again on the stage presenting a clear opposition to Joe Biden are all just so quickly falling in with him. It feels like a big tidal wave that that I don't know. Most people didn't see coming. Is that is that how you saw it? It definitely felt surprising to me and I think that the reason why it was so surprising is that this year we've seen this kind of almost extreme stand-off fish - of The Democratic establishment in terms of getting involved in the primary.

2 (12m 10s):
I think there's this sort of latent PTSD from 2016 over the party not wanting to look like it was over intervening in the primary. There was this kind of almost overcorrection amongst kind of party leaders and big Democrats over endorsements. And so then the the same sort of democratic leaders in the Party are watching this field going. Okay, you know Bernie Sanders is a self-identified socialist. We are Democrats. We would like to run a Democrat against Donald Trump. We would like to run a Democrat who we think would be good for down-ballot Democrats.

2 (12m 51s):
And the moderate Lane is in total disarray, right? The vote is being split amongst a group of candidates. We've got to get it in order and Joe Biden is our best shot do the endorsements make a difference. I know they say that there was you know a critical endorsement in South Carolina that Helped Joe Biden. When do all these better O'Rourke any club Sharpie Buddha judge type endorsements make a break for Biden. That's one of those things that will have to kind of look back and you know, I'll be interested in what political scientists tell us in a few years about that and like run the numbers, but certainly what you can say is you want good Buzz heading into a big election and Joe Biden was short on cash heading into Super Tuesday and what these endorsements did is it got him a lot of free media like earned media as the lingo and so he got a lot of great positive coverage that he didn't have to spend a dime on I'm glad this coverage will come out after a lot of the voting so that we're not going to play into that will cut that joke Biden talks a lot about unity and pragmatism and bring the party together, but obviously a lot of bernardo's don't like Joe Will he win them over will they vote for?

3 (14m 6s):
If he's the

2 (14m 6s):
nominee, so I think that Joe Biden not being liked by the far left is part of his campaign to the center and to moderate Republicans who he wants to have vote for him. It's not a bug in the in the system that Bernie Sanders diehards don't like Joe Biden and are loud about it. That's the whole point of the Joe Biden campaign is that he's operating in a different way. Lane If you go back and look at his role in the 2018 midterms, for example, it was a Blue Wave year in the house and it was because Democrats in key districts were able to take back votes from Donald Trump.

2 (14m 53s):
And in a lot of those places Joe Biden was the only one they wanted to have campaigning for them as in terms of a national Democrat down in Alabama, Doug Jones his campaign wanted Charles Barkley and Joe Biden. He will bring

3 (15m 8s):
You sense of treating everybody everybody not a joke, everybody with dignity and

2 (15m 16s):
respect. This is the Joe Biden case that he's saying Democrats who have won in places that Donald Trump previously one like Democrats who know how to pick up seats. They want Joe Biden. They don't want Bernie Sanders and if Democrats are going to win in 2020, they need Joe Biden at the top of the ticket to be able to go into those places and win. Obviously one reason Bernie gets a lot more attention than by and especially from younger voters is because he's proposing more dramatic change to our systems to our Healthcare System to our education system. What is Biden's platform? I feel like it doesn't get nearly as much attention as Bernie's.

2 (15m 56s):
Yeah. I mean Bernie Sanders has really redefined Progressive politics and how presses talk about politics and talk about their goals. And what's interesting is If Bernie Sanders work in the race, if it were just Joe Biden, I mean the headlines would be Joe Biden runs on most Progressive platform in American history that he is further to the left of any Democratic Contender except for Bernie Sanders and maybe Elizabeth Warren essentially. He's making the case to build on the Affordable Care Act

3 (16m 32s):
cost about seven hundred fifty billion dollars over ten, not three trillion, but 750 billion. Here we get 99.9 percent coverage. Anyone who had no who was anyone eligible for Medicaid would automatically be enrolled in this option.

2 (16m 50s):
He was the first Senator ever to introduce a climate change bill in the Senate ever and you can look at any number of other issues from funding for public education has never actually met the standards that it's supposed to me that the federal government has not spent at the That it is even supposed to spend and so Joe Biden's education plan basically gets Congress the Department of Education and other entities to spend at the level. It's supposed to be spending and increase that spending over the next five to ten years.

3 (17m 25s):
I would make a significant investment of another hundred billion dollars in those school districts across the country in order for teachers in there to be able to get paid for mentoring be able to get paid for teaching other teachers bringing the along because folks we have to have you in the schools teaching teaching teaching

2 (17m 43s):
on gun control. He's always been aggressive on the Brady Bill. He's been an aggressive advocate for gun control reform. He also I think operates in an interesting space on Criminal Justice Reform. He's been criticized for his participation in the passage of a bill in the 1990s that has been held up as an example of of an explosion in mass incarceration in the United States of Using drugs and creating all kinds of unintended horrible consequences particularly for communities of color. So that is a legitimate criticism of Joe Biden, but certainly his plans moving forward and his record since then does show he has changed his position and that he is looking to make significant reforms in those areas, which I think would be pretty well supported by anybody who's interested in drug reform.

2 (18m 38s):
And Criminal Justice Reform, what are his other weaknesses? Obviously, he's not the best debater in the world. He has a proclivity for saying the wrong thing at the wrong time, but one of the more concrete weaknesses, he might face is just sort of from a kind of demographic standpoint. He does not represent the future of the democratic party. He's old. He's white he's male and he voted for the Iraq War. Yeah, and then there's that Trump would certainly love to Lord that over Biden. I'd also add that pretty much every major democratic. A candidate who has been pulled against Donald Trump wins, you put up a candidate pretty much any candidate against Donald Trump that candidate wins.

2 (19m 18s):
Joe Biden has done just as well and actually in a lot of cases quite a bit better than other candidates and unlike the other candidates who have been running in the primary. Biden hasn't just been running against his fellow Democrats. He's also really been running against Trump and winning for I really almost almost a year. If you look back at what Donald Trump has been up to since really last spring in which he's been trying to encourage foreign governments to investigate Joe Biden and his son. It's really all been about attacking Joe Biden attacking his credibility insulting him on Twitter when he can and through all of this Joe Biden has been doing just fine in the polls.

2 (20m 6s):
So that's another Advantage for him as a candidate what does it say that we're here after this historically diverse field that included, you know, white women women of color a game Millennial a Castro guy with a colorful tie that we ended up with what it's going to be like one of two white guys in their 70s running against another white guy in his 70s with Biden, especially to see just win by like Obama default despite all the fresher faces the primary system favors I would argue to Two types of candidates one candidates with high name recognition. So say someone who had been vice president for eight years or somebody who can really contrast themselves with the rest of the field.

2 (20m 52s):
So Bernie Sanders is a Democratic Socialist with far more distinct views than the rest of the field. So if you're say someone in between, you can't create a clear contrast with the rest of the field. You don't have extreme name recognition. You're kind of there in the middle. Like what are you going to do? So I don't know that Joe Biden winning is some kind of signal that the Democratic party is pining for a return to the Obama Administration in such a literal way as much as it's not surprising that a candidate with high name recognition and a candidate who distinguished himself so clearly from a crowded field that these are the candidates that are standing out.

2 (21m 54s):
You can read much more about super Tuesday in the 2020 race over at vox.com results platforms the remaining primaries all of it. I'm Sean Rama's Furman. This is a wrap on Tuesday. Explain. That's terrible.