0 (1s):
If there's one place in all of Ukraine that illustrates how the war there is going, it may be the city of Bach

1 (6s):
Moot everywhere here is in the line of fire, and the casualties on both sides have been staggering

0 (13s):
Since August. Russian and Ukrainian forces have been involved in a brutal tug of war over that city. Bach moot is a very little strategic importance, but Russia badly needs a win and Ukraine is refusing to back down the slogan. Bach moot holds is ubiquitous. Now,

1 (29s):
Ukrainian soldiers told us Russian forces are now on the edge of the city and they say they desperately need more modern weapons. If that is stopped, Vladimir Putin's army in its tracks.

0 (41s):
Late last week, the US promised to send a shipment of arms valued at 2.5 billion to Ukraine, but there is something Ukraine badly wants American made Abrams tanks and the US won't give them. And while the US is holding off on tanks, Germany is too. Why coming up on today explained

3 (1m 1s):
James Juan produced the hit horror film, Megan, he made the saw movies, he made the conjuring, and he can see horror everywhere

4 (1m 10s):
At nighttime. If I hear something or I go somewhere and I think that they may be someone out there, I actually go, hello, is someone there?

3 (1m 21s):
I've

4 (1m 22s):
Actually found myself to have done that.

3 (1m 24s):
James won on. Why We always want to be scared. This week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast,

5 (1m 37s):
It's the new year and for some that means resolutions to eat healthy food and get in shape. You've probably heard the standard advice to lose weight, eat fewer calories than you burn. But we at Gastropod wanted to know, is a calorie a calorie no matter what food it comes from, and is one calorie for you the same as one for me to find out? We visit the rooms where calories are measured and the labs where scientists are proving that the numbers on our food labels are off sometimes by quite a bit. So is the calorie broken? Find Gastropod unsubscribe. Wherever you get your podcasts,

0 (2m 18s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. Isabel Kurian is the Ukraine bureau chief for the Washington Post. When I spoke to her recently, she was in Kyiv, but over the summer she was in the now fiercely contested city of Bach. Moot

6 (2m 32s):
Bach Moot is a city in Eastern Ukraine in what's known as the Donbas region. You know, kind of an industrial region that have seen a lot of fighting really for the past nine years. Since 2014, since Russia's full scale invasion, it's now become the front line and the hottest place on the front line.

7 (2m 55s):
On the front lines near Bmu. There's a constant sound of shells flying overhead.

6 (3m 3s):
Okay, let me

7 (3m 4s):
Go Trenches and bunkers are the only cover out here. Ukrainian soldiers wait for their reconnaissance, strong teams to send them details of Russian troops, but whenever they fire Russian troops fire back.

6 (3m 21s):
I think the Russians placed a great level of importance on it, especially you know, the Wagner paramilitary group, which are often contract fighters, a lot of times ex-convicts if Guinea Persian and Oliar close to Vladimir Putin who runs this paramilitary group. He recruits, you know, people from Russian prisons.

10 (3m 42s):
Ukrainian military analyst or Alexander Lanco says arming hardened criminals has created the risk of even more battlefield atrocities with those convicts. Prego can commit any crime he thinks necessary to win the battle. He said all he's done is build a blood business.

6 (4m 1s):
It's taken on a live symbolic kind of significance to the Ukrainians as well. They call it a fortress. They have a lot of brigades and battalions tied up there for Russia. They really want it because they need a win and they would show sort of at least one victory when everything else is kind of not going so well for them.

0 (4m 31s):
Why are mercenaries in Bach moot? Why isn't the Russian army fighting there?

6 (4m 35s):
These fighters are pretty expendable. You know, there's not gonna be an outcry if you're losing a lot of these guys, right? They don't have mothers and wives and things of that sort waiting for them back in Russia. Some of them are, you know, fairly experienced fighters who have been to Syria and other campaigns before, but some of them are not and it's a kind of an easy resource. You know, they take heavy, heavy casualties, but at the same time they're tying up a lot of actual Ukrainian proper military, some of Ukraine's best fighters and best brigades. And Ukraine is also taking losses.

6 (5m 16s):
So for Russia, while it's able to kind of expend what it sees as you know, not an important resource for them and let their sort of main military focus elsewhere and on other parts of the front, Ukraine is having to devote quite a large portion of its forces to this one area to just kind of hold the defense and is also taking losses when it just had less people to begin with.

0 (5m 38s):
The Russian army has had some wins, but it has also lost repeatedly against Ukraine. The interesting thing about Bach mot is that it, it is still contested after a very long time. Is there a sense that the Wagner group is actually fighting better or more successfully than the Russian army?

6 (5m 54s):
Yeah, I guess it depends on how you measure success, right? Western military analysts and also military intelligence officials all say that Bach moot does not have that much, you know, strategic significance. The war will not turn on Bach mode. Ukraine will not lose that much. I mean obviously Ukraine fights for its cities and its land, but military strategy wise, it's not gonna lose that much if it has to step back from Bach mode. You know, they've been fighting like this where they've been losing a lot of people for a long time. Russia has. So is that success when you're kind of storming constantly and sending hundreds and hundreds of fighters forward all of the time and still aren't able to take a city or you know, eventually yes, like you might be able to do it, but what are you really gaining?

6 (6m 43s):
Is that a win? Both sides have made a big deal out of it because of the fighting that has been going on. So for Russia, it's a place where they see the best chance to get a win. For Wagner, specifically for Prigozhin, it's a place for him to say, look how awesome my Wagner forces are, and for him to get a personal win. The

12 (7m 3s):
Head of the Wagner mercenary group, if Gu Prigozhin is now believed to have confronted Vladimir Putin himself about the mismanagement of the war according to American officials, Aun to the Russian Army's top Ross away. So they know we're not just picking our noses here

6 (7m 20s):
And for Ukraine it's become this sort of icon of resistance. You know, look how long we can hold out here and how many Russians we can kill here and zelensky compared it to the battle of Saratoga.

13 (7m 31s):
Just like the battle of Saratoga, the fight for <unk> will change the trajectory of our war for independence and for freedom

6 (7m 42s):
For Ukraine. Like I said, it doesn't have as much military strategic significance, however, because now so many people in the world know Bach mood who did not know this place existed before, Ukraine doesn't wanna take the morale loss or even the PR loss, and Russia really, really badly needs a PR win when things have obviously not been going well. And so you have two sides really digging in kind of on symbolic purposes at this point.

0 (8m 10s):
Is anyone suggesting that if this would be a symbolic win rather than a strategic win, maybe Ukraine should just give this city up? Is that being talked about

6 (8m 19s):
At all? You know, it's easy for us to armchair this and say you should step back from there. Ultimately for Ukrainians, it's a highly personal thing. They've already lost a lot of people there, so you know, were all those losses for not, if you were just gonna step back from it and it's still, you know, one of their cities and they take that incredibly personally, it's hard to just leave people there to just say, we're gonna step back. But they might have to make a choice like that where maybe they don't have quite as many forces committed or they think about a strategic retreat or something like this. I just don't think they're there yet and they haven't really been pressured to be there yet to this point.

0 (8m 56s):
What is the state of the war in Ukraine overall? Right now?

6 (9m 0s):
Things have largely frozen. You know, outside of Bach moot and maybe a couple other areas where there's some fighting, you don't see a lot of movement in the lines like you did, you know, in the fall where you had these big Ukrainian counter offensives. I think those were planned and timed because the Ukrainians were worried that once winter set in, you know, it would just be difficult with weather conditions, the ground conditions, it's very muddy. This is sort of a predictable flow where now both sides are likely gearing up for, you know, more offensive actions in like a month or two, but we'll see this kind of stabilization of the lines outside of a few places.

6 (9m 41s):
For the time being, I think,

0 (9m 43s):
Where do you think this war is headed in a month or two?

6 (9m 46s):
Let's say Russia takes Bach moot, right, which is entirely possible and it probably will eventually happen. You know, from there they will probably try to continue pushing east in the DTS region to sort of consolidate, you know, what hold they want on the Donbass. I think for Ukraine, you know, the most likely place for a counter offensive would be somewhere in the direction of Milit Topo in the south to cut off what's called a landbridge. You know, connecting southern Russia proper with occupied Crimea and that's a huge logistical kind of advantage for Russia right now. To have this land connection that they can use for resupply and logistics to be able to take back a place like Milit Topo on the coast would really make Russia's operations in southern Ukraine where they have a significant amerit territory still occupied.

6 (10m 42s):
It would make it quite difficult for them. So I think Ukraine's focus will be there, and I do think Russia is preparing to potentially mobilize more fighters and you make a harder push in the East where it seems like they have more success than other parts of Ukraine.

0 (10m 57s):
We are approaching a year of this war. It is a war that I think a lot of people, a lot of very smart people, did not think would last a year and it's become a war of attrition. How many casualties have Ukraine and Russia seen at this point?

6 (11m 11s):
It's hard to say because neither side honestly reveals their numbers. You know, I've seen us general Millie say that

14 (11m 20s):
You're looking at well over a hundred thousand Russian soldiers killed and wounded. Same thing probably on the Ukrainian side, a lot of human suffering,

6 (11m 27s):
And that's just on the military side, that's not counting, you know, civilian deaths. And for Ukraine, those numbers are incomplete too because obviously Mariupol specifically, there would've been a heavy, heavy civilian casualty count there that I don't know that there will ever be a great estimate of it. I mean it's gotta be over 10,000 I would think, just because of the level of bombardment there. But on definitely the highest casualties still remain, you know, soldiers, people fighting on the front lines and I think when the dust settles, it's gonna be a quite shocking amount

0 (12m 6s):
Coming up. Thanks, but no tanks. Ukraine says it desperately needs us and German made tanks and its allies have given so many other weapons. So why are they holding off on the

15 (12m 35s):
Music pop quiz time? Can you identify these three sounds? That's an 8 0 8. It's made by pitching and distorting the sound of a kick drum and it's now replaced bass guitar in countless pop records from Drake to Kim Petris. Okay, number two, That's a vocal chop, a short sample of a singer cut up drenched in reverb and made totally ubiquitous through the hands of EDM producers like Skrillex. All right, last one, that's a re space. It's a sludgy synthesized baseline created by producer Kevin Reese Sason in 1988. You can hear it in genres like jungle, German Bass UK garage, and it's even featured all over Taylor Swift's latest record.

15 (13m 18s):
The sounds of popular music are always evolving. If you want to be able to know all of its sounds, the switched on pop podcast will break it down for you. I'm Charlie Harding, the co-host of Switched On Pop, and if you can name this sound, honestly, you should come on the show and tell us about it. Switched on Pop comes out every Tuesday, wherever you get podcasts.

13 (13m 42s):
Ukraine holds its lines and will never surrender. The tyranny, which has no lack of cruelty. Again, the lives of free people and your support is crucial, not just to stand in such fight, but to get to the toning point. To win on the battles held,

0 (14m 3s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. There was a conspicuous bit of bipartisan agreement on the big Sunday political talk shows yesterday. Republican representative Michael McCall, the new chair of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, suggested on ABCs this week that the US send even just one Abrams tank to Ukraine.

16 (14m 22s):
If we announced we were gonna give Abram tanks, just one that would unleash, that would give Germany the, what I hear is that Germany's waiting for us to take the lead, then they would put leopard tanks in because

0 (14m 34s):
He said if the US sends even one Abrams tank, then Germany, which is holding off on sending its leopard two tanks to Ukraine, would be prompted to act, would be prompted to send them Democratic Senator Chris Koons also on ABCs this week sounded very much like McCall.

17 (14m 50s):
If it requires our sending some Abrams tanks in order to unlock getting the leopard tanks from Germany, from Poland, from other allies, I would support that

0 (15m 1s):
I respect. All right, we've been talking to Isabel Cristian, who's the Ukraine bureau chief for the Washington Post. This discussion over what weapons the US will give to Ukraine goes back more or less to the start of the war. But back in December, Ukraine's President Emia Zelensky came to Washington and he met with President Biden and he talked to Congress and at the time he made some requests,

6 (15m 22s):
I think he asked for more weapons. I mean, that's always what you ask for in that situation.

13 (15m 26s):
We have artillery, yes, thank you. Is it enough? Honestly, not really.

6 (15m 34s):
But the point of that trip ultimately was go to your biggest backer and take the opportunity to kind of make your case

13 (15m 42s):
For the Russian Army to completely pull out more cannons and shells are needed. But

0 (15m 49s):
Crucially, Zelensky did not ask for something in his address to Congress and that was tanks. Instead, he alluded to them saying, quote, I assure you that Ukrainian soldiers can perfectly operate American tanks and planes themselves. And he may have alluded rather than ask, because when it comes to tanks, the United States keeps turning them down.

6 (16m 10s):
I don't think the US is gonna give tanks specifically. They've been pretty hesitant on that. But other western countries look to the US to usually be the first to give and then they follow suit. So it's important for I think, zelensky in those moments to say, we wanna do a counter offensive, this is why we need it, and if we do this, then we will be able to take back this territory and the war will be over sooner. And that's less of a headache for you. I think usually the conversation goes like this, don't wait to give us something because you're just, that drags us out and it's in everybody's best interest for this to end quickly.

0 (16m 49s):
Why does Ukraine want tanks so badly? And why is the United States saying, ah, no, this is where we drive a line. Guys,

6 (16m 55s):
The specific tank is, you know, an Abrams.

18 (16m 59s):
It has main guns that can shoot projectiles up to 4.7 inches in size. Extremely rigid armor fitted with extra layers of steel and depleted uranium and caterpillar tracks powered by gas turbine engines.

6 (17m 14s):
There are some weapons that us gives to Ukraine that they take out some level of the proprietary technology or they modify the weapon with an Abrams. That's pretty much impossible with the integrated system. And if that Abrams lands in the wrong hands, I e Russian, it's a problem for the United States. So I think that's part of it and they don't, they see them as being complicated, difficult to train on that it would take a long time. It's maybe not suitable for the terrain here, which as I've said is very muddy boggy. There are pontoon bridges that, you know, maybe they would be too heavy for things of that sort. I think they have a lot of reasons and you know, they see other countries as having tanks that are more suitable.

6 (17m 57s):
Why does Ukraine need them? Because when you go on the offensive, you need to go with tanks, right? That's how you move forward. Tanks are not really a defensive thing. They're not good for, you know, holding a line. They are something that you use to move forward. And Ukraine has been kind of pushing for tanks really since summer because they started to see that they had opportunities for offensives and this is what they needed to kind of go forward safely and really push that way.

13 (18m 25s):
Ukraine never asked the American soldiers to fight on our land instead of us, I assure you that Ukrainian soldiers can perfectly operate American tanks and planes themselves.

0 (18m 43s):
And then late last week we get some news that the US is going to send some more weapons to Ukraine. Which weapons specifically and why?

6 (18m 52s):
Yeah, these will be the infantry fighting vehicles,

19 (18m 55s):
59 more Bradley's, 90 strikers, 53 M reps and 350 up armored Humvees.

6 (19m 4s):
It's not a tank, but I think the Ukrainians will happily take it because again, they need armored vehicles and it sets a precedent for, you know, the, the UK to send challengers for Germany to send some of its armored vehicles.

19 (19m 19s):
Our new package provides even more air defense capabilities to help Ukraine defend its cities and its skies. And that includes nay Sam's munitions and eight air defense Avenger air defense systems.

6 (19m 32s):
This is again, a sign that Ukraine is preparing for counter offensive that countries are preparing Ukraine for counter offensive. Early in the war, Ukraine wasn't always open with what its plans were. It kept them a lot closer to the chest and so, you know, maybe they would ask for certain things and you know, if you're the US you don't know what it's for and your reaction is no. Now I think there is more open lines of communication where Ukraine is saying, this is how we wanna use it and this is why we need it. And it makes I think the process a little bit easier or I an easier sell, I guess I would say. What

0 (20m 8s):
About troops? Are US troops or NATO troops getting any closer to Ukraine?

6 (20m 13s):
I mean, I don't think we'll see the day when NATO troops fight in Ukraine. Now do, are NATO troops getting closer to Ukraine in the sense that they're training more Ukrainian soldiers? Yes,

20 (20m 24s):
They're America's go-to combat troops go, go, go, go. The soldiers of the hundred first Airborne Division, now the closest US forces to the fight in Ukraine,

6 (20m 36s):
If you're gonna fight with less people, you need them to be fighting better. And that's where NATO training and things of that sort become really, really important.

21 (20m 45s):
American service members now training Ukrainian troops in Germany as the fighting in Ukraine raison the military says the goal is to get a battalion about 500 troops trained up and back on the battlefield every five to eight weeks.

6 (20m 59s):
But I think it's also just trying to get some, you know, basic level training that will help Ukraine not only fight with less people, but just kind of get more experienced fighters on the ground.

0 (21m 11s):
Is it conceivable that any of Russia's allies could become involved in this war in this new year?

6 (21m 16s):
The only one that I would say would be conceivable is Belarus. Belarus. You know, there has been a lot of movement where Russia has been moving equipment, planes, by planes I mean jets, things of that sort into Belarus property. They do fire missiles occasionally from there on Ukrainian targets. But to this point, Belarusian soldiers have not gotten involved and the Belarusian military itself has not gotten involved. You know, the two countries are pretty close. There have been some meetings between, you know, the Belarusian Minister of Defense and Russia's and you know, be Russian President, Lukashenko and Putin.

6 (21m 57s):
But I, I don't expect it to happen. It could be a distraction technique too, where Ukraine is kind of forced to keep one eye on that border and keep some forces back, kind of monitoring that border while also fighting in the East. I think it's more to do with that strategy wise, how to split Ukraine's forces up rather than, you know, a serious threat.

0 (22m 18s):
You've been covering this war for a year. What would you say we should take away from this so far? What are the big ideas that are kind of on your mind in the coming year?

6 (22m 29s):
I think we'll have a good idea this year of really how long this war is gonna last. You know, Putin in his kind of New Year's speech to Russian people seem to be preparing his public for a long fight. Initially it was, this is all gonna get wrapped up in within a week, and now it's the message. The way it came across to me was, we need to be patient, but we can outlast them. And you know, the Russia has this kind of more resources, more everything, and Ukraine can't win a war of attrition. You know, the big question for Ukraine then becomes, can you sell the urgency to Western partners to give you everything you need to win this year?

6 (23m 9s):
Because you, Ukraine also knows it can't win a war of attrition. And so I think this is the year when western countries, you know, might start to feel some fatigue and lose some patients because Russia doesn't seem to be giving up on its maximalist goals. A lot of things could be decided where, you know, if Ukraine can't, you know, make all of the gains it possibly wants by the end of the year, then there might be some more pressure for them to kind of sit down at the negotiating table. And I think Ukraine then says back to the west, will then help us kind of finish it up this year it will become clear exactly how long this war will go, because both sides are gonna face like quite a deterioration of their forces.

6 (23m 53s):
And if it's a war that lasts years, you're gonna start to see kind of a freeze in the battlefield after this year.

0 (24m 14s):
Today's episode was produced by Victoria Chamberlain and edited by Matthew Collette. It was engineered by Paul Robert Mosey and fact checked by Matthew Collette. Truly a Matthew of all traits. I'm Noelle King, it's today explained.