0 (2s):
Support for the children. It comes from athletic brewing the North American brewer of the year, and they want to change your mind about non-alcoholic beer, athletic brewings non-alcoholic beers, bring the crisp, clean hoppy flavors you crave in a pint to new levels. Without the booze, you can head over to the athletic brewing.com or amazon.com. Not sure if you've been to that website and order some Today wherever you order. Use the offer code a B C radio 20 for 20% off. Get some non-alcoholic beer today and use the code ABC radio 20 to save President Trump lost the election two months ago, but since then, you could argue he's been doing his best to lose his party.

0 (52s):
The Republican party has, since the election found itself devolved into Infighting and acrimony and finger-pointing, and also kind of these very fundamental debates about the core tenants of democracy. Like I think the Republican party is wondering what they are and what they stand for in a more elemental way than it has after passed a failed elections. McKay Coppins rote about the GOP's bitter in fighting for the Atlantic this weekend with the outgoing president, impeding democracy and courting another impeachment.

0 (1m 36s):
It felt like a good week to step back and talk about where his party is heading next. Like, you know, in 2012, the Republican party got together and did an autopsy. And the Republican national committee did this report where they went through, why they lost the 2012 election and the various policy issues they may be had to moderate on and

1 (1m 58s):
Perception that we're the party of the rich unfortunately, continues to grow. And that's frustrating because we care about every voter are the party of growth and opportunity.

0 (2m 11s):
It, it was kind of a more normal process. It was like, how can we, as a political party do better in future elections, the debates that are happening inside the Republican party now are our way more radical in a lot of ways. I mean, they're questioning whether they should go along with the results of a presidential election.

2 (2m 31s):
It's a move that will delight president Trump and RANKL Republican leadership. Josh Holly becoming the first Republican Senator to say he'll object. When Congress meets next week to certify Joe Biden's win.

0 (2m 44s):
Some of the rising stars are trying to prove their value to the base of the party by calling for anti-democratic power grabs. I mean, this is a bit

2 (2m 55s):
The integrity of our elections, and this is about taking a stand where you take a stand.

0 (3m 0s):
When you talk to lawmakers or, you know, smart, conservative thinkers right now, the questions that they're asking are more about what is the party's place in the American experiment? What is the future of small L liberalism? You know, the, these are much deeper and more profound questions. And frankly, I think it's a little bit frightening that that's where the Trump era Republican party finds itself right now. Well, let's go back to, to how this started before we get to the more cataclysmic events of this week after the election, before the election, during the election, Donald Trump is saying, he's going to deny the results.

0 (3m 44s):
If he's not the winner, the second they're our results. He is saying he did win. How does the GOP respond? Yeah. I still remember late in the night of the election, when Donald Trump stood up in that room in the white house,

1 (4m 1s):
This is a fraud on the American public. This is an embarrassment to our country. We were getting ready to win this election. And frankly, we did win this election

0 (4m 17s):
The next morning. I remember kind of waiting for an avalanche of disapproval from Republicans on Capitol Hill, because I kind of figured, you know, not that this would be any kind of moment of moral courage, just that it was a moment of reality, right? All of these Republicans who had felt like they needed to stand with Trump because that's what their voters wanted. And that was what was politically convenient. Now that they saw the writing on the wall, that he was probably going to lose that they were going to break with them. And I kept waiting and waiting and waiting. And there were a couple early rumbles, you know, I think that Marco Rubio tweeted something vague about how all the votes are going to be counted and, and everybody should calm down, but I just kept waiting.

0 (5m 1s):
And it didn't happen after a day or two, you started to see these Republicans come out and say, well, look, the president has every right.

1 (5m 10s):
One of the allegations of irregularities and weigh her options.

0 (5m 15s):
Yeah. And that it started to be the line percolating among Washington Republicans. It was

1 (5m 20s):
President Trump's team is going to have a chance to make the case regarding a voting irregularities. They deserve a chance to make that case going to stand with the president.

0 (5m 32s):
We certainly don't know who's won yet. The Media does not

1 (5m 35s):
Get the select our president of the American people get to elect our presidents.

0 (5m 39s):
Okay. And, and so that, that was the initial response from most of the Russians. And it's important to note here that this is even though a lot of the senior Republican leadership and the United States Senate are former colleagues, if not friends of president buttons. Right. Right. And a lot of them really like him, you know, Joe Biden's reputation when he was on Capitol Hill was as a deal maker, as somebody who crossed the aisle and worked with Republican's. And there's this famous video of Lindsey Graham from several years ago, where he's giving an interview, talking about how Joe Biden is such a good human being.

3 (6m 17s):
The bottom line is if you can admire Joe Biden as a person, that's probably why you got a problem. You need to do some self evaluation because of, what's not the like

0 (6m 29s):
Yeah. And that video has gone viral every few months in the Trump era when Lindsay Graham says something outrageous about Joe Biden. So yeah, it's not that Republicans were terrified of a Biden presidency. And in fact, I bet if you talk to a lot of them in private, off the record, a lot of them were probably relieved that Joe Biden was about to become president because they were sick and tired of all the hoops they had to jump through. And the Trump era and being asked every day by reporters about the latest weed or whatever. So it, it wasn't that it was just that they understood that Donald Trump had this grip on the majority of the Republican base, the majority of Republican voters that they didn't have, and that if they were seen now to be breaking him, to be disloyal to him, they could face repercussions.

0 (7m 19s):
And so that's why I think you saw a lot of Republicans sort of starting to go along with this, but I think there was also this idea, and this is important to note, and there was this idea in the early days of the election, that this would be no big deal, that there was no harm in humoring him, right. That look, he's, he's probably gonna lose what what's really the harm in going along with this kind of voter fraud narrative for a little while and, and letting him save face and showing his voters that we're still on the same team. You know, at the end of the day, he's gonna leave office and, and, and it'll be no harm, no foul. And how does the tally of Republicans who are siting with the outgoing president change as the vast numbers of these legal challenges are rejected, if not mocked.

0 (8m 9s):
Yeah. I think that that's, that, that last word you said, I think is key because there was a lot of frustration from Republicans that I heard from in the weeks following the election, that the president's legal team was such a joke, right? I mean, it was Rudy Giuliani and, you know, Eric Trump giving kind of ridiculous press conferences,

4 (8m 31s):
The company counting our vote with control over our vote is owned by two Venezuelans who were allies of Chavez or present allies of Maduro with a company whose chairman is a close associate and business partner of George Soros.

0 (8m 51s):
It, it was just a very clear from the beginning that this was not going to be like a Bush V Gore thing where both candidates had blue chip law firms and a extremely well credentialed lawyers kind of going over case law and, you know, preparing their cases to bring to the Supreme court. This was an ad hoc slap dash made for Fox news effort by the Trump campaign. And so I think once it became clear first that they were not going to have any real evidence of widespread voter fraud, not even a little bit credible evidence of, of widespread voter fraud.

0 (9m 32s):
I think some Republican started to back away. So as these cases started to be batted down in court, laughed out of court Republican judges, in some cases, very curtly and candidly said, these cases have no merit whatsoever. As that happened, you started to see people like Mitch McConnell and other Republicans acknowledged that this was not going to happen. The Donald Trump was not going to be president on January 20th, that Joe Biden had won the election. It still wasn't the consensus view among all Republicans, but the, there was kind of a breach in the wall around Donald Trump that started to happen.

0 (10m 12s):
I would say sometime in December, and while that's happening, you start to see fishers in other arenas in policy, right? As the years ending, there's all this talk of stimulus. And then the president inserts himself and throws it off the rails. I am asking Congress to amend this bill and increase the ridiculously low $600 to $2,000. There's talks of military spending and the president inserts himself and throws it off the rails.

5 (10m 43s):
President Trump officially vetoed the national defense authorization act for 2021. That's the roughly $800 billion, a spending bill that was coupled with the Corona virus relief to essentially make the relief bill a must pass.

0 (11m 1s):
It was a bipartisan vote to override that veto. And that that moment in isolation is not a big deal. You know, I think in Washington, military spending is one thing the Democrats and Republicans for the most part, never want to touch. It's not, you know, crazy that there would be a bipartisan vote like that. But what it suggested was that a lot of Republicans were fed up with Donald Trump and we're not quite as afraid of him as they might've been even a few months ago. And just frankly, we're tired of dealing with the way that the white house was constantly derailing negotiations on Capitol Hill, constantly throwing a wrench in the business of legislating the stimulus.

0 (11m 43s):
I think it was a big moment where Trump had sent Steve Minutian to be kind of his representative for the administration and all those negotiations and or Democrats have been dealing with Minutian for months and in the stimulus talks. And they got to a point where there was consensus and nobody was really happy with what they had come up with, but, you know, that was kind of the nature of legislative compromise and they were ready to pass it. And then Donald Trump stood up out of nowhere and said that the checks weren't big enough, they should be $2,000 instead of $600 and immediately derail the stimulus bill and pay for a lot of Democrats and Republicans.

0 (12m 23s):
But I think especially Republicans who are always looking for ways to give him the benefit of the doubt, it was just an extremely frustrating moment where that laid the groundwork for a lot of Republicans to just, you know, sort of start to wash their hands of him or in whatever way they could.

6 (12m 42s):
Yeah. And it was amazing to see Republican stand with him on claims of election fraud, but for these spending bills to be sort of the CU to grow like, no, you're not going to get us on a stimulus or military we'll, we'll let you question the foundations of our democracy, but no don't mess with our end of your spending bills. Well, well, again, though,

0 (13m 7s):
It goes back to this poisonous idea that was planted in the Republican establishment a long time ago. And especially in the days after the election, that there was no harm in humoring, his conspiracy theories, there was no harm in letting Donald Trump save face. You know, I, I think for a lot of Republicans on Capitol Hill, the, the thinking was on this legislation, this concrete thing that we need to vote on, we're going to not allow Donald Trump to mess it up, but on these kind of wild ideas that are really aimed at social media and the conservative media and Newsmax and Fox news and, and all of that, yeah.

0 (13m 49s):
We can play along with that, you know, that's just kind of political theater and that that's just our job, right? That there's this very cynical idea that part of the job of a Republican legislator, especially in the Trump era, is to sort of go through the theater, have, you know, being a mega diehard. And that's just how you keep your seed and you can continue to do the work that you really want to do.

6 (14m 13s):
Mm. And then the chickens come home through. So let's talk about what happened this week. How was the establishment GOP responding to this effort to sort of have some sort of rally, some sort of protest in DC the day they'd be certifying the election results.

0 (14m 36s):
Most of the establishment Republican party was pretty frustrated with what was happening and it wasn't just that it was also the fact that Josh Hawley Senator from Missouri, Ted Cruz, Senator from Texas, were cooking up this stunt to object, to electoral college votes from States that the president had lost. I actually spent the days leading up to a Wednesday talking to a bunch of Republican members in the house and the Senate and the The. These members ran the gamut from Mitt Romney, who is kind of often, ah, on the other side of an issue with Donald Trump and is one of the people who is constantly speaking out against him to Thomas Massey, who is a libertarian, a Republican in the house of representatives, staunch Trump supporter.

0 (15m 23s):
It is almost always in like the maggot camp and kind of across that spectrum. A lot of Republicans were just completely outraged that there was this effort that they were going to have to deal with. And, and it's funny because I think part of it was, this is clearly anti-democratic, it makes the party look terrible. It's not going to work. We're just misleading voters, but there was also this just frustration that they were going to have to spend hours and hours debating this issue. You know, like so much of what angers a members of Congress is when they just have to spend an entire day jumping through dumb parliamentary hoops for no reason. It's just like, it's like the same way that, like I get annoyed when I have to file my expense reports, you know, it's like, it's just like, ah, like this is annoying tore that I had to do.

0 (16m 11s):
Right. Then you layered on top of that, the fact that Donald Trump was calling on his supporters to come to Washington, to, you know, protest the certification of the electoral college and in Donald Trump's convoluted thinking somehow changed the outcome. There is a very interesting moment. I F I at least read about it the New York times where while they're shutting down, Mitt Romney starts yelling at his colleagues. I mean, what is it like the moment the GOP and Democrats in the Senate realize on some level, this plan was a success.

0 (16m 53s):
Yeah. The night before everything happened at the Capitol, I was on the phone with Mitt Romney and he had actually just flown out to Washington and his travel day had been kind of terrible. He was harassed by a people in the airport.

7 (17m 10s):
They didn't want you to do it anyway. So to be honest with you, I wouldn't be surprised if it, if you weren't, even if you weren't even voted in legally was a joke or not your legacy. You're a joke. Absolute joke is disgusting. Shame.

0 (17m 24s):
You got on the plane and a group of passengers on the plane and started chanting traitor. But when I talked to him, he wasn't actually that interested in kind of venting about the people who were confronting him. His position was that president Trump had misled millions of people and convinced them that the election was stolen. And that this frustration that they were seeing was Republican voters were being lied to. And he, he told me that in combustible moments like this one, this is the night before the storming of the Capitol. He said, in combustible moments like this one, you can either be a fire extinguisher or a flame thrower.

0 (18m 5s):
And president Trump has been a flamethrower. So he was kind of clear-eyed about the fact that something was happening in the Republican base. And that Donald Trump was inciting his supporters to do something bad. And once the breach happened and it became clear to Capitol police that they were not going to be able to hold the Capitol and they needed to get senators out of the chamber and into a, a, a, a secure facility. They started to kind of scramble to get everybody out. And in the midst of this chaos, Mitt Romney turned to Ted Cruz and yelled. This is what you've gotten. And I actually was texting with somebody who worked for him in the middle of all of this, just, you know, shortly after that episode to ask, because I haven't seen the reports of that.

0 (18m 49s):
And I asked, is this true? And the person I talked to said yes, and said, he is furious. That moment where the Capitol in an unprecedented way was being taken over by this angry mob. I think for a lot of them, it sort of drove home just how dangerous, not just the stolen election narrative was, but how dangerous so much of the Trump era has been that you can't actually just lie to your supporters with abandoned and tell them that all these terrible things are happening without eventually those people believing you and taking to the streets and the response, you know, th there is actually a cost to humoring president Trump.

8 (19m 41s):
<inaudible>

0 (19m 49s):
In a moment, a bunch of members and the GOP saw the storming of the Capitol as the cost of humoring, the president, but dozens of representatives, and even a few senators got right back to feeding quarters into his manure machine.

8 (20m 4s):
<inaudible> <inaudible>,

5 (20m 27s):
We are sleeping terribly right now. Neurobiologists are calling this trend of increased sleep disturbances COVID Somnia. So how do we fall and stay asleep to understand we have to go back to its building blocks. We have to look at something called the sleep architecture.

8 (20m 44s):
<inaudible>

5 (20m 48s):
To you by both sleep buds, to, there are four phases of sleep. We go through every night, the first two are lighter sleep. The next two stages are critical. That's where all the recovery and repair happens during stage three, our bodies do the hard work of recouping from the day we just had. Then their stage four REM sleep REM sleep first takes place around 2:00 AM and is crucial for learning and memory. It's where our brain activity accelerates. This stage is so important that NASA is working to improve REM sleep for astronauts in space. If you're asleep by 11:00 PM, you'll build three full non-REM stages before entering REM sleep at 2:00 AM.

5 (21m 31s):
What this means for you is not just less exhaustion high-quality sleep is tied to increase resiliency, lower anxiety, and even better heart health. Great sleep starts with a cool room distance from your screens, quiet, and really letting yourself relax. Both sleep buds to can help. When you use both sleep buds to soothing sounds help you fall asleep and stay asleep. As noise masking tech keeps out sounds that could wake you all, helping you be the architect of a better night

6 (22m 3s):
<inaudible>.

5 (22m 9s):
And the late seventies tensions between Houston police and the Mexican-American community exploded. The result was a daring experiment for five young Latino police officers. They were tasked with solving Houston's toughest crimes in rebuilding trust all while being torn between the neighborhoods that raised them and the badges they wore. My name is <inaudible>. And this is the story of the Chicano squad subscribed to Chicano squat from the Vox media podcast network on Spotify or wherever you listen.

6 (22m 44s):
Okay, McKay a mob enters the Capitol. They desecrate the chambers. Tons of people are injured. Five people so far have died. When business resumed later that Wednesday night one would think the president's party would have second thoughts about supporting his lies about the election.

0 (23m 3s):
I mean, it, you can't come up with something that would be better designed to force a reckoning over what these Republicans have been encouraging, and the plan that Republicans have been pursuing, right? You just saw, you know, what happens when you go along with these crazy nonsense conspiracy theories and convince your voters that intellectual has been stolen, and yet house reconvenes The the votes start and more than 100 Republican's in the house, decide to object to electoral college votes from States that Donald Trump lost. These are the moments did we should raise

1 (23m 46s):
The issue about integrity and accountability and accuracy in our elections, but you know what we should do the next difference, not just raise the issue, but work together to solve the problems.

0 (24m 1s):
And was it a similar line in the Senate? It was, although I think what happened in the Senate was a little more interesting because before the Capitol was stormed by this mob, what I had heard was that about a dozen Republican's in the Senate were going to vote to object. That number was cut in half by the time the business resumed late on Wednesday night. And so, you know, still a lot of Republicans went along with it. And Ted Cruz made the same case that that house Republicans were outlining

1 (24m 31s):
For those who respect the voters, simply telling the voters go jump in the Lake. The fact that you have deep concerns is of no moment to us that jeopardizes, I believe the legitimacy of this in subsequent elections,

0 (24m 48s):
Very kind of Orwellian line of, of logic, but you also saw a lot of Republicans angrier at Donald Trump than I think they have ever been willing to show up to this point, right? I mean, Mitch McConnell,

1 (25m 4s):
We will not be kept out of this chamber by thugs mobs or throats. You know,

0 (25m 13s):
You saw a Mitt Romney say that

1 (25m 17s):
It happened here. Today was it insurrection inside it by the president of the United?

0 (25m 22s):
Okay. And then get sustained applause from the chamber. When he said that no

1 (25m 27s):
Congressional audit is ever going to convince these voters, particularly when the president will continue to say that the election was stolen, the best way we can show respect for the voters who weren't upset is by telling the truth.

0 (25m 50s):
If you saw Lindsey Graham who has been an extremely loyal supporter of Donald Trump throughout his presidency, stand up and say, all right,

1 (26m 1s):
All I can say is a, count me out enough is enough. I've tried to be helpful.

0 (26m 7s):
And, and, and very kind of Lindsay Graham fashioned, you know, like very casual kind of

1 (26m 13s):
Mike, and this vice-president just hang in there. They said, we didn't count on Mike. All of us can count on the vice-president you going to do the right thing? You're going to do the constitution.

0 (26m 25s):
It, it was a strange tone, frankly, given what it is like, maybe he's drug drunk a little bit. And there is definitely, I'm not going to say one way or the other, but drunk Lindsay Graham was trending on Twitter for a while. But, but that I thought was an interesting moment, because, you know, again, these aren't moments of moral courage anymore. At this point, you don't get a lot of credit for breaking with Donald Trump after your life was just put at risk because he's sent a mob to go storm your place of business. But at the same time, I do think it was just a reflection of the realities in the Republican party, which was, I think kind of a final breaking point for a lot of Republicans who had been trying their hardest to find ways to still be on his side while even trying to kind of tip toe away from the, the craziest stuff he was saying for a lot of Republicans, this was the moment where they just kind of threw up their hands and said, look, he's just wrong.

0 (27m 25s):
And he is lying. And I just knocked going to be part of it anymore. And we should mention here, the person presiding over all of this, the person sort of in charge of this legislative moment is the vice-president of the United States. So, you know, we talked, I remember back before the election about Mike Pence and, you know, I've spent a lot of time reporting on Mike Pence and kind of examining the various tensions that exist in Pence's decision to just fully support Donald Trump all the time. But that's what he's done from the moment that Donald Trump put him on the ticket in 2016, he has been a, an unfailingly loyal, subservient obedient deputy.

0 (28m 11s):
When Donald Trump says John peace as how high, right. He will do anything. Donald Trump says he will carry any water. Donald Trump wants him to, he will defend anything. Donald Trump does no matter how brazenly a corrupt or, or out of keeping with Mike Pence's values as a, a, an evangelical Christian. This is just who Pence is. And for that, for that unfailing years of loyalty, Donald Trump rewarded him by putting him in an impossible position.

9 (28m 43s):
The vice-president Pence has to do is send it back to the state's to recertify, and we become president. And you are the happiest people.

0 (28m 56s):
It has to be clear. He does not have that authority. There is no constitutional authority for the vice-president to change the outcome of a presidential election, but Donald Trump literally up until Wednesday on Wednesday morning, continue to tell the bag of base that Mike Pence out of that ability.

9 (29m 14s):
And if he doesn't, that will be a sad day for our country.

0 (29m 19s):
He, he either does what, the only thing he, he, he actually can do, which is to just count the electoral college votes and certify the election, which would lead to a massive backlash from the Republican base. Or he can basically recuse himself or try some kind of antics that would never actually work that would end his political career, but somehow retain the blessing of Donald Trump. Anyway, what he ended up doing was sending a three-page letter saying that he had, he had looked into it. I'm sorry, I shouldn't be laughing. And he said, but I mean, it's just so ridiculous, but you said he had carefully considered it and determined that he did not have the constitutional authority to send it.

0 (30m 6s):
The electoral college votes back and Donald Trump immediately turned on him.

9 (30m 10s):
You have to be very disappointed in you. I will tell you right now and not hearing good stories, throws I'm under the bus and throws them

0 (30m 19s):
Haley under the bus. It basically set up Mike Pence as the fall guy said that Mike Pence didn't have the courage to do what needed to be done. That because of Mike Pence, we're not going to win this election basically made, turned Mike Pence overnight into one of the biggest villains in conservative America. Immediately meme started to circulate conspiracy theories started to circulate in a conservative social media circles that he had been compromised. That Mike Pence was a, you know, working with a deep state that, you know, he was never loyal to Donald Trump basically tore on the way out the door, Donald Trump torch, Mike Pence's credibility and ended his ability, I think, to have a future and Republican politics, or at least that's what it looks like now.

6 (31m 6s):
Okay. I guess this all brings us to the question. You know, we want it to ask you, which is, you know, if, if people thought they were going to get a reckoning in the Republican party, after Trump won the election, you know, they didn't, if they thought they were going to get one after the GOP lost the house, they didn't, if they thought they'd get one after president Trump lost the election in November, they didn't. But if they thought they were going to get one after the outgoing president incited, a quasi insurrection in the capital, the day of the certification of his opponents, when are they going to get it?

0 (31m 53s):
I actually think, yes, I don't know what the reckoning will look like. And it's possible that the eventual result will be an even more kind of undemocratic demagogic a party. But I do think that after what happened in Washington combined, and this is important combined with the fact that Republicans in the midst of all this officially lost control of the Senate, both Georgia runoffs went to the Democrats, which means that Republicans now are completely out of power. They have lost control of the white house and both chambers of Congress and are now in the wilderness.

0 (32m 34s):
And, and there was this kind of line of argument in the immediate aftermath of the November election that even among those who acknowledged that Donald Trump had lost their, was this idea that, yeah, but Republicans actually did pretty well down-ballot and overperformed with a certain segments of minority voters. And, you know, they're actually positive signs to look at in all of this. And there was a sense that Republicans, where at least going to be able to have control of the Senate so that they would be able to block a lot of the legislation that the Biden ministration was pushing for. So there were, there were a lot of silver linings in November that Republicans were looking at that don't exist now.

0 (33m 14s):
And for the Trump presidency to end with an angry, violent, armed mob storming the Capitol, putting Republican members' lives at risk, I think for a lot of Republicans will finally cause the introspection and the, the kind of Infighting that probably should have started months ago. I'm not going to make any predictions about where that Infighting and introspection leads. There is definitely a faction of the Republican party that believes the answer. The solution to their ILS is more Donald Trump, more Trump-ism more Trump's style of populism, quote unquote.

0 (33m 56s):
And that factor of the party is powerful, and they are going to continue to make that case, regardless of what happened this week in Washington. And then there will be a other factions of the party who are arguing for a return to Reaganism. There will be factions to the party who argue for a moderation. There'll be some that argue that they need to get back to very conservative economic politics that spending in Washington has gotten out of control. That'll be a convenient rediscovery in the Biden era of austerity politics. You're going to see a lot of debate within the Republican party. Now, I think about where they're headed and I don't know where it's going, but the, the, the debate is, and it has, I think finally stuff

1 (34m 41s):
<inaudible>

10 (34m 54s):
McKay Coppins is a staff writer at the Atlantic. You can find him support his work@theatlantic.com. Since we spoke Democrats in Congress have said they would move to impeach the outgoing president, again, as soon as next week, if he didn't resign immediately representative Kevin McCarthy of California, or Republican who you briefly heard of this episode has said impeaching the president with only a few days left in his term would only divide the country. More two thirds of the Senate would be necessary to convict. And as of publishing time, all of one Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska has said he even consider impeachment over this week's events. I'm Sean Ramez for him.

10 (35m 34s):
This is Today Explained

1 (35m 36s):
<inaudible>

11 (36m 1s):
Hi, I'm Avery. Truffleman the host of the cut a new podcast from New York magazine and the Vox media podcast network.

8 (36m 8s):
<inaudible>

11 (36m 11s):
Every Wednesday, we work to explore important provocative ideas about the world around us. So far, we've discussed what it's like to move back into your parent's house and why that's actually an incredible and empowering thing to do. We've also talked about what it means to be a radical in society, expects you to be practical and pragmatic. We'd love for you to join us, subscribe to the cut and your favorite podcast app to get new episodes each week.