0 (1s):
Everyone knows. This was politically motivated. Everyone,

1 (5s):
Arizona, Republican Senate candidate, Blake masters, responding to the FBI raid on Malago, who

0 (10s):
Even knows what's fully going on. Right. But we know all of us know it's messed

1 (14s):
Up on yesterday's show. We told you about the new right. A group masters is associated with it's a small, but influential bunch of thinkers and politicians who wanna reshape the us with a nationalist bent. They're skeptical of democracy, but that's the system we have. And so they wanna win elections, which means they need money. And that is where the billionaire Peter teal comes in with

2 (37s):
Somebody like Peter teal. It's always hard to tell whether the contrarianism the, the desire to like, just disagree with people comes first or the ideology comes first. But I think they're tied together.

1 (47s):
Coming up on today, explained the man bank, rolling the new right. And the wildly provocative pass that might have you thinking. We should have seen this one coming

Citi (60s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals. And to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg.

5 (1m 43s):
Investors need to keep their finger on the pulse of change. Are we on the verge of a wage increased spiral? How is private capital changing the landscape for small firms? Can investors avoid greenwashing in their ESG exposure? Welcome to season two of the outthinking investor, an award-winning podcast from PJI subscribe to P G's the outthinking investor today for these insights and more

6 (2m 7s):
This podcast is intended solely for professional investor use past performance is not a guarantee of future results.

1 (2m 20s):
It's today explained I'm Nowell king max Chakin reporter for Bloomberg wrote the contrarian, a biography of Peter teal. Max, how much did Peter teal agree to talk to you for the book?

2 (2m 32s):
Well, teal is pretty secretive and somebody who's done a lot to kind of try to control the narrative around him. He was aware of the book and there was, you know, a single off the record meeting. We spoke for a little over an hour, but unfortunately, I, I, I can't give any details from that conversation. Is

1 (2m 52s):
Peter teal, a guy who doesn't want publicity or is he a guy who wants a certain kind of publicity?

2 (2m 60s):
Oh, I, I think he definitely wants publicity.

7 (3m 4s):
Please welcome the co-founder of PayPal and first investor in Facebook, entrepreneur, Peter teal, good evening.

2 (3m 14s):
It's a publicity that he wants to control. I mean, and he's somebody who's been extremely effective at creating kind of a, a mythology around H his entrepreneurial exploits and around his ideas.

8 (3m 27s):
I build companies and I support people who are building new things from social networks to rocketships.

2 (3m 33s):
And I think that's one of the things that's kind of given him power and influence in Silicon valley for his followers. He's this kind of weird combination of like an iron ran like a, a sort of right wing libertarian philosopher and like an iron ran character. Because of course, he's not just a philosopher. He's somebody who really built a startup and who, who got incredibly rich. So you have this weird combination of very provocative ideas, and then this kind of aspirational, almost self-help quality to, to some of those ideas where it, it it's like, and you can too, Peter teal has all these contrarian ideas. And if you follow them, you two can be, you know, fabulously, wealthy and successful and live with absolute freedom.

1 (4m 17s):
Tell me about Peter Teal's early life.

2 (4m 22s):
So teal is an immigrant. He was born in Germany. His family were conservative German immigrants living in the us for the most part. Although his father was a mining supervisor, he, he was somebody who straddle the line between sort of a technical field. He had an engineering degree, but worked on job sites and Teal's childhood was tough. I mean, they were tough conservative parents, and he was, you know, very much an outsider. They bounced from Cleveland to South Africa and then Namibia, or at the time it was Southwest Africa and then came to California. And by the time he gets to California, basically at the beginning of middle school and high school where he stayed, he is this kind of, bit of a nerdy misfit.

2 (5m 11s):
He's incredibly intelligent, but also an outsider. And, and somebody who is not just an outsider literally, but in his own kind of, I think bearing somebody who considers himself apart from, from the group.

1 (5m 24s):
And then he goes away to college. He goes to Stanford. What's that like for him,

2 (5m 30s):
He was, you know, almost from the beginning. And I talked to people who met him, like, or, you know, right. When he came on campus, it was like, he stepped out of, you know, some sort of alien world almost to, to some of these Stanford students where he was just painfully serious, unbelievably driven. And, and that ends up, you know, creating strife between him and, and some of the people at Stanford, which I think he processed, you know, rightly or wrongly as, as political,

9 (5m 57s):
The multicultural educator at Stanford university liked to go around saying, I started looking for racism everywhere. And I started finding racism everywhere. And indeed he did.

2 (6m 8s):
And he came to feel that basically Stanford was this place full of these deranged liberals.

9 (6m 16s):
There was an ongoing debate over boycotting table grapes. Why? Well, because most of the grape pickers in California happened to be Latino farm workers, and they were exposed to dangerous pesticides supposedly.

2 (6m 27s):
And what he does is he starts a newspaper and it's called the Stanford review and it was a, and it is a very sort of provocative conservative publication. Now, remember, this is like 1987. This is kind of at one of the high points of campus conservatism you have across the country, these right wing newspapers forming there. You had the Dartmouth review, which was ed to Jesus's paper,

10 (6m 57s):
Even though the problems of American civilization stretch across the national culture. There are some problems that are distinctive to black culture.

2 (7m 4s):
You had the Cornell review where, where Anne Coulter works. She's a good friend of, of TES. At this point, you go

11 (7m 10s):
Find black Santa at the north pole, he's

2 (7m 12s):
White, and yet the Stanford review and these papers are all, you know, pretty similar. And the basic stick is pressing what they regard as the liberal administration and student body, and attempting to walk right up to the line or, or cross the line on topics like race, gender, gender, identity, and, and so on. And then when that, you know, offends people when, when that offends your, your fellow classmates or the administration or whatever you claim that you are being discriminated against, you know, we have a modern word for that now, right? It's, it's trolling. And I think that's a good description of what they were doing that can be provocative.

2 (7m 53s):
It can cause your intellectual opponents to do and say dumb things. And that's what happened. I'll share one other thing that was probably formative. So when teal was, was a small boy, the family lived in South Africa and then Southwest Africa, which at the time was like a, basically a client state of South Africa, modern data MI had a apartheid and his father worked in a uranium mine. Now, when you work in a uranium, mine in a apartheid country, you are very, very much bought in to that economic system. And if you remember back to the eighties, a big focus of campus leftism was around South Africa.

2 (8m 33s):
You know, there's this huge divestment movement that was going on around him, the

12 (8m 38s):
Students at Columbia and Rutgers and UC Berkeley protesting South Africa on the next

2 (8m 44s):
Don. And I think teal may have regarded that as a personal attack. Huh? Not just as a political statement, but as, as, as an attack on his family, his upbringing on his understanding of the world, because you have these accounts from his early years at Stanford, which teal has denied. It's important to say, but I've spoken to sources who have confirmed it, but where teal basically defended apartheid to black students where he said that it was a reasonable economic system and that, you know, the United States should basically stay out of it. And, and that, of course for his classmates was, you know, incredibly upsetting, incredibly aggressive. And, and I think, you know, it, it kind of shows perhaps part of the source of, of some of his anger and so on, but also the kind of way he forms himself, which is as somebody who is this kind of dorm room debater.

1 (9m 37s):
And so he is at Stanford. He is trolling at Stanford successfully. I imagine he graduates with good grades. And then does he go into tech immediately after graduation?

2 (9m 48s):
Well, no, he originally thinks he's gonna go into government. He goes to law school. He has a very good federal judge clerkship. He gets a white shoe law firm job and he's interviewing for Supreme court clerkships. And what basically happens is, you know, he washes out

8 (10m 5s):
Looking back at my ambition to become a lawyer. It looks less like a plan for the future and more like an alibi for the present. It was a way to explain to anyone who would ask that there was no need to worry. I was perfectly on track.

2 (10m 20s):
And so what ends up happening is misses out on the clerkship. And he basically bounces around a little bit, but then moves back to Silicon valley and then writes this book, which is basically a continuation of his kind of Stanford trolling. It's called the diversity myth. And it's basically like a, a distillation of a lot of the work he'd been doing at the Stanford review.

9 (10m 39s):
The reason we have racial tensions in our society, the reason we have other kinds of tensions is not because there is a problem with racism and other forms of oppression, but because people are looking for these things too much,

2 (10m 50s):
And the book is kind of a modest success, I think, within conservative circles. But again, it doesn't, it doesn't really hit in, I think the way he hoped and, and then what's happening around him is there's a tech boom. And he basically attached himself to that without a lot of real background or, or qualifications or anything like that. And, and it's kind of a, a Testament to TEALS ambition and, and determination that he was able to sort of very quickly set himself up as a pretty important figure in that world

Citi (11m 38s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology that money will help provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us, but that's just a start. Having ambitious goals is what helps the world make meaningful progress. And it's going to take all of us working together to make sure we continue to move in the right direction because to address these worldwide problems, it's going to take worldwide action. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg.

13 (12m 39s):
I'm Alex Heath and I'm co-hosting land of the giants. This season, meta the company formally known as Facebook so far. We've told the story of mark Zuckerberg's journey to reaching billions of users from the creation of the newsfeed to the acquisition of Instagram, but such massive scale that comes at a price in our upcoming episodes. We'll examine how the company has had to grapple with the uncomfortable side of its power, from how to reckon with former president Donald Trump.

14 (13m 8s):
I think mark in the end felt that if you're gonna start saying that heads of government, can't threaten to deploy force to restore order, that that sets a really quite a worrisome precedent

13 (13m 20s):
To the harms its own technology amplifies

15 (13m 24s):
Borderline harmful sensational content fundamentally does better. You know, under user engagement

13 (13m 29s):
Will Zuckerberg's high stakes pivot to building the metaverse work. And if it does, what does that mean for all of us follow land of the giants, wherever you listen to hear new episodes, every Wednesday

1 (13m 54s):
Of the contrarian. So Peter teal goes from campus conservative to tech investor. He co-founders PayPal. He sells PayPal to eBay for a billion and a half dollars. He's an early investor in Facebook. His net worth goes up and up. When does he start giving money to political candidates?

2 (14m 13s):
Teal has considered himself political for like his entire adult life. And probably part of his childhood. His political activity really started to ramp up with the candidacy of Ron Paul. And, and this is kind of like a weird, forgotten little corner of Silicon valley history, but teal backed a Ron Paul pack, this very weird pack that made these like incredibly long YouTube videos that were designed to help Ron Paul win the Florida Republican primary, which he lost very badly

17 (14m 45s):
Attention, Iowa caucus voters, I'm fake MIT Romney, which makes me remarkably like the real MIT Romney.

2 (14m 52s):
But I think what teal was trying to do was sort of insert himself into what was becoming a movement, which was this kind of libertarian youth movement that was already happening, like even before Peter teal came on the scene, but by backing this Ron Paul pack, he gets, he gets invited to the convention. He gets, he gets to speak at these youth groups. And I think that is kind of the beginning of what becomes this, you know, incredibly active and engaged fan base, where you have people who are fans of teal, not just because of his business success, because he's just another guy who made a lot of money, but because he's a, you know, boundary pushing, you know, libertarian Renegade going into the 2016 election.

2 (15m 36s):
So now we're talking about, you know, 20 14, 20 15, he's initially back in Carly, fina who doesn't seem like, you know, the kind of new right nationalist populist that you would expect that we've come to associate with Peter TEALS, just more like a conventional business type. What

18 (15m 52s):
Is leadership? It's challenging, the status quo, it's solving festering problems and it's producing results. That is what I have done all my life. That's how you go from being a secretary to being a CEO.

2 (16m 2s):
And I think teal back to her, partly because she was somebody from his world, you know, she had had run Silicon valley companies. Maybe he thought he would have a decent amount of influence, but of course, Carly Fiorina washed out and then teal was kind of left with a choice. Should he back Ted Cruz? Or should he back Donald Trump and ultimately decided to back Trump? Partly I think because he thought Trump would win. And also, because I think there were things about Trump that really kind of spoke to teal two main ones. One is the immigration thing. Teal is going back to his Stanford review days, right? He's been super hard line on, on this idea that the, you know, the west is somehow under siege, not a far bridge to get to the kind of hard line, build the wall type stuff.

8 (16m 48s):
There's an immigration bubble where we say, you know, it's all good. You shouldn't ask questions. And I think, I think we could have a better policy. I, I would, I personally would like one like Canada or Australia.

2 (16m 59s):
And then the other thing is that Trump was this figure who was kind of saying the unsayable right. He was getting up on stage at these rallies and saying racist or sexist, or just generally offensive things and sending the media and left-wing politicians it, you know, into kind of a frenzy. And of course that's, that's what teal loves. I mean, he was, he was somebody who was directly attacking, you know, what teal considers to be. You know, one of the big threats, which is this idea of political correctness.

19 (17m 28s):
Do you personally support Mr. Trump's comments and rhetoric before about banning Muslims from traveling to the United States?

8 (17m 35s):
You know, I think one thing that should be made distinguished here is that, you know, the media always is taking Trump. Literally. It never takes him seriously, but it always takes him. Literally. I think a lot of the voters who vote for Trump take Trump seriously,

2 (17m 49s):
But not literally. So I think it, it wasn't that teal back Trump, despite the provocations, I think it, it really was the provocations,

1 (18m 2s):
Right? And then we get to these provocative candidates associated with the new right, JD Vance and Blake masters, both of them Republicans running for Senate, where do these two men fit into Peter Teal's worldview? So

2 (18m 15s):
A, a big source of Teal's success has been identifying these kind of promising young men. And, and these could be political rebels of the kind of Stanford review variety, or they could be kind of the business rebels, right? These, these guys who are breaking business norms in one way or another disrupting and teal will identify them, nurture them and so on. And so you have this thing where he's, he's found people, people who are these kind of like verbose provocateur, and, and that's the category I put both Blake masters and, and JD VAs masters has no teal for, you know, more than a decade. He got to know him when he was a Stanford law student and teal was lecturing about startups.

0 (18m 59s):
And I think that class sort of jostled me awake because it was the first time I had had impressive professors, but it was the first time where like someone accomplished from the business world was coming in and not just saying a much

2 (19m 11s):
Masters was taking notes in the class. He worked for teal as an intern and then became his co-author on zero to one and then has become this kind of basically Teal's right hand man sort of defacto chief of staff, somebody who was very involved, I think in the kind of construction of the teal myth, but also who had managed aspects of Teal's business. And in particular, the teal fellowship, which is this thing where teal would pay young people, you had to be under 20 initially to drop outta college and, and start a company. A master's helped administer that program. He's been like Teal's closest aid, you know, one of his closest confidants over the last decade or so

20 (19m 51s):
Blake, how do primary voters respond when, when they learn that you're, you know, so heavily backed by a single individual billionaire,

0 (19m 59s):
I think they're happy that we have one on our side.

2 (20m 1s):
Vance is, is different Vance of course, you know, wrote a successful book hill. Biy the two men kind of hitch themselves together right around the time the book was published. Vance took a job at one of Teal's venture capital firms. And then after when Vance sort of struck out on his own and started this fund called NAIA teal was one of the key investors,

21 (20m 24s):
Conservative venture capitalists, Peter teal, and JD Vance are investing in the video platform called rumble. It's gained popularity among right leaning users in recent months.

2 (20m 35s):
So I think in both cases, Vance and masters are extremely ideological, right? They're, they're both hard, right? Populist nationalists, kind of in the Trump mold. I think what makes them kind of different than Trump is that they have discipline. Right. And I think that's what teal likes about him. Hmm. So it's kind of like Trumpism without the erratic behavior, which includes some of the, you know, allegedly corrupt aspects, I guess, of, of, of Trump's tenure, but also, you know, Trump wants to be liked, right? He's capable of sort of shifting his views and, and molding them to, to popular sentiment. And I think these guys and, and the political figures that teal has, has found his way to backing are much more ideological.

1 (21m 19s):
How important is Peter Teal's money to the candidacy of these gentlemen? Well,

2 (21m 24s):
If you ask them, they would say not that important, but if you ask me, I don't think either of them is a serious candidate without Peter teal. Hmm. They both owe their careers in some sense to teal. And then teal has been basically the anchor investor in both their campaigns giving more than 10 million each in the, in the primary, which is a lot of money. And of course, by having him there as, as this anchor donor that helps them bring in additional money, right. And creates a center of gravity around both candidates. And I think play an important role, not just in bringing additional funding to those guys, but to getting Trump, to endorse both of them,

1 (22m 2s):
New right candidates and new right figures are not particularly friendly to gay people. They talk a lot about a family headed by a father and a mother. Now the mainstream Republican party has in large part moved on from that, or at least polling suggests it has Peter teal is gay. And I understand that being gay is only one facet of his identity, but with everything you learned about him in the course of writing this book, can you discern why a gay man would make common cause with politics that seem retrograde even by the standards of the mainstream Republican party?

2 (22m 34s):
I think that some of this gets inside of Peter Teal's soul, which, you know, I, I don't have access to, but I'll tell you what I know based on my reporting, which is that he identifies as a gay man, I think kind of reluctantly, but he identifies more as a contrarian. Right. And, and, and there are other aspects of his identity, I think that are more important to him. And we saw that during the Republican national convention, when teal gave the speech. I, I think a really important speech that, that he really only gave reluctantly because I don't think he wanted to talk about his sexual orientation publicly.

8 (23m 6s):
I am proud to be gay. I am proud to be a Republican, but most of all, I am proud to be an American,

2 (23m 17s):
You know, the whole Trump family was up and, and cheering and, and he did it in a way that was designed to say, it's okay to, to kind of go along with some of the dog whistling and the, and the anti-gay politics that are coming outta the modern G O P because that stuff doesn't matter. And what really matters is the economy and so on, so forth. And so I think that is, you know, what he believes. And I also think that, you know, some of this is ideological, but I think a lot of it, it is just trolling. And it's just finding ways to heighten areas of, you know, disagreement with liberals and to push liberals into a position where they're gonna say something dumb. So I think it's important that we take seriously, you know, when, when there's homophobia or racism, that's coming out of corners of our political spectrum.

2 (24m 5s):
But I also think it's important that we recognize that not all of it is something that is coming from a deep intellectual place. Some of it is just, it's just trolling. It's just provocation for provocations sake.

1 (24m 16s):
I think at some point, Peter teal makes the statement that freedom and democracy are incompatible. Do I have that right? Yeah. There you go. Okay. So that made me think of something. The writer, James Poe told me, he said of Peter teal. He still loves to try stuff and see what works. And it made me think the point of a venture capitalist is to try out new ideas to invest in new companies. Only this time. It seems he's less interested in new companies than in new forms of government. And those forms of government might not include democracy. Do you think Peter teal is trying to be a venture capitalist of government?

2 (24m 56s):
I think teal has an actual hostility to democracy. It's pretty core to his worldview, actually that the world would be a better place if Peter people like Peter teal had freedom from the popular will, right? If billionaires were able to just do what they want and he's built an entire intellectual architecture around that, it's really at the core of a lot of his business ideas, which include letting founders of tech companies, you know, have absolute power over their companies. You know, famously mark Zuckerberg is basically the absolute dictator of Facebook, right? He can't be fired by the board.

2 (25m 36s):
He, he will control it forever. And I think this is part of what teal believes. And I think we're seeing those beliefs kind of coincide with an authoritarian kind of moment in our politics. And I think teal has, you know, as you say, like a venture capitalist latched onto this, we saw it with Trump and, and we're seeing it with some of the candidates he's supporting who are in a lot of ways hostile to democracy. And I think that is the scariest part of Peter Teal's career. And it's the part that gives me the most pause

1 (26m 21s):
Today's show was produced by miles Bryan and fact checked by Laura Bullard. It was edited by Matthew collect and engineered by Paul mosey. I'm Noel king it's today explained.