AT&T (1s):
When it comes to security, you already have to lock doors, save passwords, and remember combinations. How about having one less thing to worry about? Thankfully, 18 T makes your security a top priority. Download ATNT active, Armour's free mobile security app to help protect your personal data. So you have one less thing to worry about. It's not complicated. ATNT active armor 24 7 network protection and free security apps to help stop threats before they get to you at no extra charge compatible device and service required. Data charges may apply. Visit att.com/active armor for details.

3 (54s):
It's not explained I'm Sean Robinson or Mt. Think at least in the past few years, anyone would really argue that that the United States isn't taking the opioid crisis more seriously than it used to. It gets attention from the white house. There've been these game-changing lawsuits just this week. The met museum in New York city scratched off the Sackler name from seven exhibition spaces because of the family's role in pushing opioids on Americans. Sam can, Yonas has been reporting on opioids for years. He's a crime reporter who spent 10 years with the Los Angeles times back in 2015, he wrote a groundbreaking book about the opioid crisis called dreamland, and he's just written another book. He covers opioids again, but this time it's only half the story.

3 (1m 35s):
The other half is about meth

1 (1m 39s):
Because I believe the, the methods out there now produced in Mexico is on of a new kind, creating a horrifying damage, really mentally from people across the country, creating mental illness, schizophrenia, and along with it, our homeless problem that we're seeing all across the country, living in Tenten countless. It's a brand new problem associated with meth that we really haven't seen before. And it's a really all across the country because the meth down in Mexico was produced in such staggering quantities that it too is all across the United States.

3 (2m 16s):
Okay, well, I want to get to the new meth with you, but, but let's start with the old meth. What is the origin story of methamphetamines in the United States?

1 (2m 26s):
Well, really the drug goes back to the, you know, world war one time period of Japanese researcher invented it. It was then used in Nazi Germany to, to fire the troops, to keep the troops marching

4 (2m 41s):
<em></em> or tank chocolate. What was also known as stupid tablets from the dive bombers, given to the pilot

1 (2m 50s):
In the United States. We also gave this drug to soldiers, pregnant women used it. I was really at one example of where you have a drug that's legal and it's now part of the culture. And so

5 (2m 60s):
I went back to the doctor and he gave me amphetamines prescribing two tablets a day for depression when necessary. Well, I started in it did help, but then I started having trouble sleeping.

1 (3m 13s):
And then re-emerges towards the end of the 1960s produced mostly by biker gangs in California, the biker gangs. Aren't very good at it, but they're the only ones making it. And they develop kind of a culture of speed of methamphetamine crank. And you see kind of this first public display of this at the Altima concert, The free concert that the rolling stones gave in which they, for some unexplainable ringing is in higher the hell's angels as their security and their, it was just Bedlam. And a man was killed.

6 (3m 54s):
I mean, whose body, what fall who's fighting and what fall, why are we fighting?

1 (4m 6s):
The bikers control the, the dope for a good 20 plus years? I would say up until the late 1980s, Towards the end of the eighties in, in San Diego, the Mexican trafficking world discovers methamphetamines at the same time that they discover a much more efficient way of making nothing Fetterman the way really it was made by the Japanese researcher decades, before it's using a chemical called ephedrine, the ephedrine is decongestant. You find it in Sudafed pills, but it's a very close to molecularly to methamphetamines.

1 (4m 47s):
So it doesn't take much to transform ephedrine into methamphetamines. It's a very efficient way. You don't need a lot of different chemicals nor much know-how. And so it democratizes to a certain degree. The meth trainee began to see it being made in motel rooms now and in kitchens and so on. And what if we rented one of those self storage places, you know,

7 (5m 9s):
Orange garage has worked out of there and they're onto that. They've got dogs that sniff around and RV, that's why you want.

1 (5m 21s):
And so you begin to see it showing up and it moving beyond bikers, hands so much. The main people though, who take it up are Mexican traffickers and they begin to industrialize it. They begin to make it in quantity as the bikers can never achieve and are not competent to achieve. They begin to produce it in what are then known the time, a super labs, which is a 50 to 100 pounds at a time sometimes. And very well-organized. And this takes place in the central valley of California. San Diego was an enormous meth central kind of place, but it also begins to emerge during these years and down in Mexico.

1 (6m 2s):
And that is where the story remains for another 20 years.

3 (6m 8s):
And if I'm not mistaken, you are so far describing what we would think of as like the old meth. How does this new meth enter the story?

1 (6m 18s):
The Mexican authorities had gradually been learning about the damages of methamphetamine, all based on the use of veteran. And so in 2008, they took the draconian step of making ephedrine illegal. When they did that, the trafficking world went through a brief spasm of wondering, where, where are we going with this? This was our ticket to an unbelievable profits and so on, but that lasted only a short period of time. They had chemists who they paid or over helping them and the chemist on them, whether it's this other way of making methamphetamine, you don't need to make it with a veteran. This other way is the very messy, stinky.

1 (7m 1s):
It has a lot of byproducts and so on, but you can make it. And this is the way the, the, the bikers used to make it. There is really only one benefit to the trafficking world in Mexico from this new method. And it proves crucial that benefit of this new way of making it is that you can make it with a whole bunch of combinations of different, very easily available chemicals. These are illegal chemicals, industrial chemicals, toxic chemicals, but you don't really need to worry anymore about just one chemical being regulated. The way of veteran was. So there's all these chemical hacks, basically in this one method that allow you to get to the same result. And that means if they have control of shipping ports, then they can get all the chemicals that they want.

1 (7m 49s):
And that, that this will allow them to make this stuff in quantities that they never ever imagined possible with a federal. It's a revelation, I think, to a lot of people and that all you now need is access to world chemical markets, because there's no way any government can control these precursor chemicals because they are used in all kinds of very common industries, photography, tanning, racing, fuel perfume. They're very toxic chemicals there. Hydrochloric acid, there's sulfuric acid, there's cyanide live many, many others, whole bunch of other chemicals that they use on this and that they combine. And eventually you combine them. You can make methamphetamines.

1 (8m 30s):
And

3 (8m 30s):
What is this new meth called? Does it have a name

1 (8m 33s):
It's generally called P2P meth? So it allows them for the first time to make just staggering quantities of this drug. And beginning in about 2013 is when they really get to a point where they can make these kinds of quantities. That's when you begin to see this methamphetamine coming out on Mexico began to almost like March across the United States,

8 (9m 4s):
One suspects, dozens of guns, hundreds of pounds of meth, heroin, and cocaine,

1 (9m 9s):
The 2013, 14 it's in LA and Seattle, Portland, various places like that on the west

8 (9m 15s):
Oregon's highest federal attorney says it was all part of a multi-million dollar operation that brought drugs from Mexico right here to the Portland Metro area.

1 (9m 24s):
And by 2016, 17, for sure, it's in the Midwest, Ohio, Kentucky, places that never had Mexican methamphetamine. All of a sudden it's showing up and it's doing to the small time, a little Neil moonshine type meth makers, what Walmart did to main street. It's just basically moving them out and out, competing them incredibly. And then by 2019, that same methamphetamine is up into new England. Commander.

9 (9m 51s):
Pelletier says his undercover agents and uniformed officers are seeing more and more crystal meth.

1 (9m 58s):
They're making so much that the price across the country drops by 80 to 90%. Then Nashville announced methamphetamine used to go for a 1250. Now it goes for $250. That's the kind of price drop that you're you're seeing even as they cover the entire country, which is something they never ever could do with, with, with a veteran methamphetamine

Venmo (10m 37s):
Support for the show. Once again, today comes from Venmo. Next time you split the bills, score $10. When you pay with Venmo, from rent and utilities to concert, tickets and dinners out, Venmo makes it easy to share the fun and split the check in the app, ordering delivery for the group. Get paid back before your meal arrives, share ride with their roommate, split the car and the charge join the more than 76 million people who already use Venmo to make fast, safe, and secure payments. Sign up today with the code explained and get $10 to send and spend offer ends December 31st, 2021 limited availability seed terms at venmo.me/signup. 10 that's, $10 with promo code explained

BetterHelp (11m 32s):
Support for the show today comes from better help online therapy. Some people are hesitant to start therapy until they really quote unquote, need it. Like you've got this weird growth on your back, but you're like, oh, whatever. It's just a weird growth on my back. But then all of a sudden it's just like huge, weird growth on your back. And now it really hurts. And he got to go to like, ER room one day, cause it hurts so bad. And then they're like, we got to operate on you. And it just sucks. But if you had gone like earlier to a dermatologist, they could have just like excised it from your back. Think of like better help as a resource like that. But for your mind, man, listeners get 10% off their first month at better help.com/explained. Right now you can give it a try and see why over 2 million people, according to better help have used better help online therapy that is better. H E L p.com/explained you get 10% off your first month at better help.com/explained.

3 (12m 41s):
So Sam you've explained that there's this new kind of meth flooding America. It's called P to P it's cheap. It's widely available and it's incredibly popular. What effect does this meth have on the people who use it according?

1 (12m 60s):
And am I reporting this P2P myth is accompanied by very quick onset, very severe symptoms of schizophrenia. This stuff is very quick. You begin to have severe paranoia, very florid hallucinations. You begin to fear everything. The world becomes this constant threat. You really begin to retreat. Endorse the ephedrine. Meth was a party drug. It was a euphoric, it was big in the gay community. You want a party. You want to be around other people, this meth that coming out of Mexico. Now it turns people inward, they're all alone on their brain. They don't want to be around people. They want to be all, all alone. They're seeing spectacular hallucinations.

1 (13m 40s):
They're afraid of everybody. They're taking pictures of every license plate on their block, just to make sure that person isn't following me or they're thinking of all they're, they're sometimes speaking in, what's known in psychology as word salad. There's also an enormous focus on hoarding, just scavenging stuff from the street. I believe that this methamphetamine is a major driving force behind our mental illness and homelessness problems, particularly tenant, countless homelessness that we're seeing now, not just on the west coast, you know, this is all across the country in varying levels of intensity.

3 (14m 16s):
And I know in your reporting, you spoke to people who use this P2P meth. Tell me the story of Eric Barrera.

1 (14m 24s):
Eric is a former Marine lives in Los Angeles and works as a homeless outreach coordinator. His story tells me is that when I got out of the Marines, it was still kind of not pleased with my time in the Marines. And so it kind of depressed. I began to use methamphetamine in 2001 and

10 (14m 44s):
Nobody knew that I was high. It was very euphoric. You would feel very focused, but not, not out.

1 (14m 52s):
He use meth fairly regularly, but he still had a life. He had a job, a wife, a girlfriend actually, and a house and all this. And then he said in 2009 is when the meth changed. Now I stopped him right there. And I said, what do you mean the meth changed? He said, yeah, I used it in 2009. And it drove me mad.

10 (15m 16s):
I remember getting high and hearing voices clearly. Like I could hear my friend's voice in my backyard.

1 (15m 25s):
All of a sudden I was paranoid. My girlfriend had a man in the house,

10 (15m 30s):
So I grabbed it a giant knife. And I just started stabbing in the mattress where I thought he was hiding.

1 (15m 36s):
I was stabbing the walls with the big butcher, not trying to get them out of them in the wall.

10 (15m 40s):
It seemed like a really bad acid trip. It just wasn't like that and focused feeling it was anything, but I couldn't focus on anything other than trying not to die.

1 (15m 52s):
And when he was telling me this story, say, you sure this is 2009 you're talking about, because that meant a lot to me that year mental and that was one year after the Mexican government had made ephedrine illegal, essentially to possess. And there was when the meth began to change too. I began to think, damn, if this guy felt this in 2009, these horrible symptoms of schizophrenia, paranoia, and hallucination and all this and this meth has now all across the country, then it's worth checking to see if these symptoms are now all across the country.

1 (16m 32s):
And so that begins to like the last part of my meth investigation in which I set out to talk to as many people who were working with this at the most ground floor level that I could find. This is addiction counselors that are recovering addicts, police officers, and skid row neuropsychologists. And what's amazing to me, as I talk to people all across the country, they all report the same story. Yes. We're seeing people. We know that these folks are not mentally ill. They don't have schizophrenia yet. They're displaying those symptoms. And I'm hearing the same story in West Virginia, in Albuquerque, in Portland, in rural Indiana, in Virginia, as I'm hearing from Eric Barrera, who now is telling me the thing is, I don't know what's going on, but I can tell you this when I go through the homeless encounter.

1 (17m 23s):
So that is my job to do. Now. I'm seeing people all over every place I go who were in the same state of mental decomposition that I was in for several years.

3 (17m 34s):
Is it about this, you know, paranoia, inducing drug that that keeps people hooked though, because it sounds like compared to the old method, the way you describe Eric's story, it's no fun.

1 (17m 47s):
No, it's an excellent question. And I'm not, I know the answer to it, but as absolutely addictive, and you become kind of content in your own little world, but why is it addictive? I don't know. I want to say too, that this is street reporting on giving you, there is no neuroscience on this. There is no mouse studies or rat studies. There's no peer reviewed journal reports on why this might be creating these, these problems all across the country. And I'm not capable of doing those studies. Obviously I'm a crime reporter. How do you

3 (18m 21s):
Addiction to this P2P meth? If there's no science on what it's really doing to people, is there at least treatment procedure?

1 (18m 30s):
No, there's no real treatment for methamphetamine addiction other than separation from the drug, which is the key thing, right? Detoxing separation, keeping it away. It's very difficult because it's so prevalent now and sleeping for a long time. And then time waiting for the brain to heal. Time is essential in all this, but it basically requires the person must be removed from the environment in which he or she is using this God awful stuff. So with opioid addiction, there are medical treatments. There are methadone has won Suboxone and other benefits. While you may have heard of these, the, to treat medically primarily it's the cravings for more and they do very effective work, but there's no such thing yet really for methamphetamine, it's just simply separation and then time away and sleeping and letting the brain heal again.

3 (19m 24s):
So with no real science yet, no really effective drug treatments. And assuming we don't just want to throw every meth user in this country in prison for a year or two, to get them off the drug, is anyone at least trying to reduce how much of this P2P stuff is on the streets? You know, the way they were able to regulate the Sudafed era of meth, the ephedrine era of meth. Can we do that with P2P?

1 (19m 54s):
Well, this involves an engagement with Mexico that neither the United States nor Mexico seems willing to do, but absolutely it has to be part of the mix. We cannot continue to allow this stuff to come up in this way. It reminds me of as much as a drug addiction problem. It reminds me of like a national poisoning. That's really kind of what's going on. We absolutely need to engage with that country. They need to stand up, deal with corruption, deal with these massive supplies of chemicals coming in through their ports that are fueling all this, this horrid, dope that's coming into our country. We on the other hand need to focus on all these guns that are bought here in the United States and then smuggled south that ensure the impunity of those guys to make that dope in such staggering horrid quantities.

1 (20m 43s):
And there is a definite role, absolutely central role for law enforcement at all levels to be played in helping to reduce the supply of this stuff. There are other things that need to happen on the prevention end for first and foremost really is prevention. That seems to me a treatment is good, but you cannot treat your way on out of this. Any more than you can arrest your way out of this. The supply is the thing. If this wasn't in such fast supply, it wouldn't be the big issue that it is today, but it's all over the country.

3 (21m 20s):
Sam, can you, this is the author of the least of us, true tales of America and hope in the time of fentanyl and meth. Our episode today was produced by miles. Bryan edited by Matthew Colette engineered by Christian <em></em> and fact checked by Laura Bullard. It's today explained.