1 (7s):
Support for the show today comes from sun basket. They deliver meals to you. And since it's a new year, they want you to eat well. Maybe your, your making resolutions to that end and they have food. That'll make you feel like your eating well, but definitely not on a diet. Every sun basket meal is filled with only premium quality, real, genuine food, including organic, fresh produce antibiotic and hormone free meats and sustainably sourced seafood from suppliers they know and trust. And right now sun basket is offering $35 off your order. When you enter the promo code explained at checkout, that is sun basket.com/ Explained and enter the promo code explained at checkout for $35 off your order.

1 (52s):
Some basket.com/ Explained with the promo code explained, I TBH have no idea if the food actually comes in the basket. So if you go to the site and enter the promo code explained, you can let me know It's the new year. And there's lots of alarming. Talk about new mutations in the coronavirus. And today we're going to explain the muse with the help of Brian Resnick. He's a senior science reporter here at Vox dot com. Brian, what's the virus up to, there are some cases

0 (1m 31s):
Turning things about mutations in the News. And then there are also some things that about it, where we don't have to, you know, freak out, freak out. So if I can walk you, you want me to walk you through it? Okay, this'll be a metaphorical walk. We haven't

1 (1m 49s):
Taken a walk together in a long time. This will be nice.

0 (1m 52s):
So the background here is Viruses especially the virus type of that is SARS cov. Two changes all the time. When it gets into a body, it goes in and it replicates. It makes copies of itself. It makes millions of copies, billions even, and every time the virus makes a copy of itself makes a copy of it is genetic material. It might make like a little typo. So you can think of like the Viruses genetics as like a list of letters. And you know, every time it copies itself, it might change a letter or it might make one mistake.

0 (2m 39s):
Most of the time, this doesn't mean anything. It's just the one letter change. It doesn't change anything about the virus. Sometimes these changes even make the virus like weaker in some way. But then what happens after that is natural selection. This is just like basic evolution where if there are millions of variants of the virus and one is just like a little more successful at something than another, then that one variant becomes the dominant one. And that's what we're looking at here with some of this news out of the UK, this new highlight

2 (3m 16s):
Contagious strain is raising alarms around the world. Today Britain's prime minister called an emergency meeting after putting much of the UK on lockdown, all of this because of a new, highly contagious variants of Corona virus spreading rapidly throughout the country, especially in the rain

0 (3m 32s):
London. This was first discovered in the UK. And there's also another variant of concerned in South Africa. Basically the virus has seemingly become more transmissible. It seems to jump from one person to another, with greater ease in some studies have shown that it might even be 50% more transmissible, 50%. This isn't really completely nailed down, but there's like enough evidence. That's all pointing in the same direction about these variants, about these viral mutations that all suggests like, wow, this should be a time of extra caution. What does that mean? Like we have to stand 12 feet apart instead of six feet apart or where like three masks instead of two.

0 (4m 14s):
Yeah. Yeah. So the gist is that these variants seem more transmissible, but they're not necessarily more, very blunt. It's not seeming that is leading to a more severe disease. And in it, although of course, any time you have more infections, you have more chances for like bad outcomes. You have more deaths. You have like everything that goes along with the virus, the virus is in dramatically change. It still starts Coby too. It's still spreads in the same way. You know, all of the things that you've been learning about, about how to stop the spread still apply. There is nothing new for like individuals to do other than just like be cautious as they've had then, or maybe this is News that should inspire them to be, you know, maybe more cautious when they've like known they've done something, you know, not ideal during the pandemic or perhaps in some cases be cautious for the very first time.

0 (5m 8s):
Yeah. You know, it's, I think it's more of a, like, if you can imagine, like in any given space that it's more likely for you to get the virus because this, this new variant seems to be more easily transmitted between people. Like, I think it's a good idea to add that into your mental risk calculus B like, you know, should I take that trip? Well, there's this new variant going around, so maybe it's a little scarier. And the scariest thing here is that this virus is much more contagious, which means it's much more likely to spread. Where has it spread so far? Do we know the variant that, that most people are talking about first was discovered in the UK and the UK does a lot of genetic sequencing of the virus.

0 (5m 48s):
So if you go in and get your nose swabbed, like there's a good chance in the UK that they'll check on the genetics of the virus that was in you and it to like a big Network that just tracks like viral changes. So this was first discovered there and a, since been discovered really all around the world here in the U S I saw New York just yesterday. Yeah. In California and Colorado. It's also been reported in Belgium and Germany, Ireland, France, Norway, Spain, Switzerland, you know, there's some parallel here a little bit to like, even like the beginning of the pandemic where, you know, like, just as we were talking about, Oh, maybe it'll be in a lot of places that already was like everywhere.

0 (6m 36s):
And the us does much, much less genetic sequencing of, of the virus here. So we have like a less of an acute sense of where the variant is. Or even if other variants have emerged here, you know, it, you know, for not detecting, if we're not collecting samples of virus for genetic analysis, like we, you know, a new variant could arise here wherever. And, you know,

1 (6m 59s):
It's hard to know, but this strain has been called the UK virus because that's where it was first reported. Is there a chance that that's just where it was first noticed and that this has already been in several countries? Yeah. That's okay.

0 (7m 12s):
It's hard to say exactly where this originated from. It was first detected in the UK. And that also might be a consequence of that. The UK just does a lot of, you know, viral genetics work. There, there, there are some ideas of how this happened. One idea is that maybe the virus evolved in somebody with a compromised immune system where, you know, like I said,

1 (7m 37s):
The virus is always

0 (7m 38s):
Changing as it, as it, as it replicates itself. And if a body is like, kind of weakly fighting off a virus over like months and months, then that gives the virus like a lot of opportunities to change, which also then just underscores, like, you know, we need to protect immune compromised people. We may need to vaccinate them earlier. You don't want to give this virus more and more chances to

1 (8m 1s):
Change. I think it's pretty clear. The United States is not doing enough, but it does the fact that this has spread to so many countries implied that much of the world isn't doing enough. Well,

0 (8m 12s):
I think that it implies, or it underscores that this has the potential to become like the dominant strain of this virus. So it was detected in the UK because their scientists noticed that a greater and greater proportion of new cases were due because of this viral variant. That's the kind of what we're seeing around the world. Like The, as this spreads, you know, silently, you know, we don't detect where the virus moves at every turn. We've never had that clarity of, of detection of, of surveillance. And if this variant is more easily transmitted between people, then, you know, it can quickly become the dominant form of the virus in an area.

1 (9m 1s):
I know what you're wondering is the vaccine still effective against this mutation? I'll talk to Vox is resident vaccine reporter Umar. Irfan about that after the break support for the show Today comes from babble. And I don't know if you had like a new year's resolution to learn a language in 2020, but then 2020 happened. And you had to, you know, throw all those resolutions out the door. Well, guess what, maybe there's some holidays coming up in your future and babble is fast, effective, and proven.

1 (9m 44s):
They give you daily 10 to 15 minute lessons. And within just a few weeks, you know, maybe your ordering some knock worst in German at a deli or something like that, who knows, but you know, that's hard. Maybe it's over the phone in person stuff these days, depending on where you are in the United States, either way, right now, Babel is offering Today explain to listeners three months free with a purchase of a three month subscription with the promo code explained you can Visit babbel.com and use the promo code explained on your three month subscription. That is B a B, B E l.com promo code Explained babble that's language for life <inaudible>

3 (10m 37s):
In the late seventies tensions between Houston police and the Mexican-American community exploded. The result was a daring experiment for five young Latino police officers. They were tasked with solving Houston's toughest crimes in rebuilding trust all while being torn between the neighborhoods that raised them and the badges they wore. My name is <inaudible> and this is the story of the Chicano squad subscribed to Chicano squad from the Vox media podcast network on Spotify or wherever you listen.

1 (11m 11s):
<inaudible> staff writer Vox last month. The News about the pandemic got a lot more hopeful when we learned that two vaccines, which are both pretty darn effective at protecting people from COVID had been approved. We talked to you about lots of questions people had. It seemed like the beginning of the end of the pandemic. Do these new mutations change that? Or will these vaccines still protect people? Well, we don't know for sure, but in all likelihood, the answer is yes, these vaccines will probably stay effective for some time. Why do you say well, there's a couple of different reasons. I mean, one is that because these vaccines are so very effective to begin with, we're talking 95% efficacy, even the efficacy, you know, if you

4 (11m 54s):
Got down to 80% or lower, or it would still be a very effective vaccine, the other thing is it has to do with how the vaccine itself works. I mean, these vaccines in the modern of vaccine and the Pfizer BioEnTech vaccine, they coach your immune system to make a part of the virus, the spike protein. Okay. And there's actually multiple targets on this spike protein that your immune system can use to train itself. And it's very unlikely that you would see mutations in all of these components. All at the same time, there might be mutations at one or two places, but not, and perhaps all the places that your immune system uses to recognize it. And finally, we kind of have some degree of real world experience with this because the generation of vaccines that we're using now, they were engineered to counter some of the earliest variants of the virus.

4 (12m 42s):
And they're being tested in the real world right now against the more recent variations. And, you know, these viruses, they mutate all the time. And so these vaccines have been quite competent at dealing with the variations that we've thrown at them so far. So it's very likely that there'll be able to cope with quite a few more variants if we were to throw them at it.

1 (13m 6s):
Okay. So chances are the vaccines still work, but the virus is potentially spreading even faster, or at least this strain, are we going to be able to keep up? Well, that's the thing,

4 (13m 19s):
Big question. I mean, right now we want to vaccinate as many people as possible, as fast as possible because we're already dealing with a devastating pandemic. That's killing thousands of people per day. And if that disease we're to speed up its spread, that would make it all of the more urgent to distribute these vaccines. However, what we've seen so far is that the United States in particular is really struggling to get these vaccines out into the arms of the people that actually need it.

5 (13m 46s):
The new year has begun, unfortunately with a halting start in addressing the pandemic that U S is stumbling out of the gate in particular, in the distribution of vaccines

4 (13m 57s):
Operation, warp speed, this government program to help develop and distribute these vaccines. They estimated that we would have about 20 million doses injected in people's arms by the end of December. And as of roughly this week, we've only had about 4.6 million doses administered. So we're very far short of the goals that the us has set up

1 (14m 17s):
For itself. So you're saying operation warp speed got us to the vaccine historically fast, but has now slowed down, you know?

4 (14m 26s):
Yeah, that's right. I mean, this was always going to be a big challenge. And we've seen throughout the pandemic that the United States has kind of struggled with this aspect of it. You know, earlier in the pandemic, you may recall the shortages of, we had an personal protective equipment for health workers or in testing and getting those out to all the places that were needed. Getting a vaccine out is even more complicated in terms of the logistics. And it has all these other extra constraints on it. Like the vaccine is only viable for a hours once it's thought it has to be administered as two doses. This is a medical product that has to be administered by people who are trained to do it. So it adds a few more layers on top of the existing logistics that we were dealing with before. And the fact that the U S struggled with some of the easier things, shouldn't surprise us, that we're now struggling with some of the harder things.

4 (15m 10s):
I mean, I've been seeing stories that vaccines are actually being thrown away because people are mishandling them and not keeping them at the right temperatures.

5 (15m 17s):
Sconsin hospital worker has been fired for intentionally removing COVID vaccine from a refrigerator, forcing that hospital to throw out more than 500 doses. Aurora,

4 (15m 28s):
It seems that are being wasted in this country right now. Yeah, that's an unfortunate reality. I mean, because of the haphazard approach and the fact that the federal government has basically left it up to the States and a lot of States have left it up to the counties, everybody's kind of doing their own thing here. You may recall in Florida, for instance, some counties were doing vaccines administered on a first come first serve basis. And that led to people over the age of 65, camping out overnight, trying to get vaccines. The line

6 (15m 53s):
Stretched for miles this morning, people waiting in Daytona beach, Florida for their COVID 19 vaccinations. It's been a long journey for everybody. And so we're lucky. We're lucky that we're getting it to you.

4 (16m 5s):
And then there were other places you may recall that protest they had, that's the Stanford university health center,

6 (16m 14s):
Where

4 (16m 15s):
They used an algorithm to try to figure out who should be eligible for vaccines. And it turned out some of the people, they were awarding the vaccine to were doctors and health workers who didn't interact with patients at all. Whereas there were plenty of people who were interacting with patients who have COVID, who weren't getting vaccinated. And then you had the governor of New York recently threatened to impose a million dollar fine on anybody who administered a vaccine to somebody's out of turn.

6 (16m 39s):
I don't want the vaccine in a refrigerator, a freezer. I want it in somebody's arm.

4 (16m 44s):
Okay. So you have a whole bunch of different States and a whole bunch of different regions, all doing their own kind of thing. And when you have this sort of haphazard approach yeah. It's, it seems inevitable that something is going to go to waste that some doses are not going to be used appropriately. And just some things are just going to get lost in the shuffle. Yeah. But I mean, it felt like developing the vaccine was this nearly impossible feat of science. And we pulled that off, distributing a vaccine, shouldn't be quite as hard. And we had all of that time to figure it out. Didn't we, I mean, that's the big frustration here. I mean, yes, this was definitely always going to be a problem. And, you know, government officials did see this coming a lot of, you know, local health administrators were also warning that, you know, we're not very well equipped to do this right now, many local health districts for instance, were struggling with funding.

4 (17m 29s):
There was some funding that was appropriated in the recent, you know, COVID pandemic bailout, but you know, it, they still need time to prepare all of this infrastructure, right? It's not just having the vaccine and administering that you have to track the patients. And you know, we're not going to have enough for everybody all at once. And so figuring out who goes to the front of the line, that requires its own level of patients and figuring out, you know, who exactly is most deserving or most urgently needs to be protected. So all of this other level of administration is complicating things as well with the vaccine.

1 (17m 60s):
Is there anyone owning this failure, Ooma air? Is it, is it Dr. Fowchee? Is it Trumpy? Is it Pennsy? Is anyone owning this and saying, we blew it. We could of done a lot better.

4 (18m 12s):
Anybody has stepped forward to take responsibility for this just yet a, but this is a failure that occurred in a lot of different levels. I mean, it's not just the federal government. I mean, I think a lot of States also had time to prepare for this and knew that this was coming so did a lot of counties. And so to a lot of hospitals, you know, this is something that does require coordination across all levels of government. And certainly the highest levels of government do bear greater responsibility. But again, like this is something that we knew it was going to be coming for a long time. And unfortunately the fact that the U S has been doing such a poor job of it, it shows that there is some level of institutional failure, particularly if you compare the us to other countries, which are seeing a much higher rate of vaccine distribution, it shows that this can be done, right.

4 (18m 52s):
It's just that for whatever reason, we're not doing a good job of it.

1 (18m 56s):
It seems like, you know, just merely a few weeks ago where we had you and Dr. Fowchee himself on our live show. And it was the week where the United States had just started administering the vaccine, but it was also the week we hit 300,000 deaths. So it didn't seem like we were in the clear at all, but there was good news. Has that feeling of being a little bit further along, been set back now by the fact that we have this new strain that's more contagious and these really disappointing numbers on vaccinations in the United States?

4 (19m 32s):
Well, the thing to remember is, you know, even with this new strain, the existing strains of COVID 19 are the ones that have been causing the most devastation so far. So the conventional ones that we've been dealing with are the ones that have lead to more than 300,000 deaths in the United States. And so those are already quite dangerous and we've already done a very poor job of controlling them, but you're right, that the vaccine does offer us hope and a path out. But of course it needs all these other things to fall into place as well. It needs good administration, it needs good logistics. It needs people to actually get vaccinated. You know, there's still a lot of vaccine hesitancy and people who are still turning down vaccines. So all of these parts has to be working together. When one part of that complicated machine fails, you know, a lot of it can easily get derailed and we can have a lot of setbacks in our progress towards getting out of this pandemic.

1 (20m 19s):
And the longer it takes us to get out of this pandemic, the more mutations we're going to see

4 (20m 24s):
That's right. I mean, one of the best things we can do to limit mutations is to limit the number of people infected. The more people that are infected, the more cases develop. The more likely it is that the virus will change in a way that could escape protection from a vaccine. The best way we can guarantee our health in the near term is to control the spread of the virus. And it's the best way to

7 (20m 48s):
Ensure that the vaccine remains this protective and viable for as long as possible.

1 (20m 60s):
Umair Irfan reports mostly on the vaccine these days at Vox dot com, where you can find lots of reporting from our science team on these mutations. I'm Sean, Ramas from its Today explained the team includes we'll read <inaudible> I'm going to Alsada Halima Shaw. No, I'm Hassenfeld in our engineers of theme Shapiro, our supervising producers, Golda Arthur music comes from Breakmaster cylinder facts and checked by Cecilia Lee. Liz Kelly Nelson is Vox is editorial director of Podcast. And Today explained as part of the Vox media podcast network

7 (21m 50s):
Park, police <inaudible> park.

3 (21m 56s):
Things just politically exploded in Houston. When it came out that the police have been the ones who murdered, who is a couple of daughters 40 years ago at Texas community's demand for justice lead to a daring experiment for five young Latino officers, with little training and even fewer resources, they were tasked with solving Houston's toughest crimes in rebuilding trust. How would you like to go to homicide? I didn't know what the homicide was. None of us knew what we were up against. They were torn between the neighborhoods that raised. Some of my friends stopped talking to me after I told them I'd joined the police department and the badges they wore. I had to go

7 (22m 31s):
Mexican flag on my desk and they came over and told me, Hey, Lieutenant doesn't want that. The Mexican flag,

3 (22m 37s):
My name is crystal Alonso. And this is the story of the Chicano squad.

7 (22m 42s):
You weren't. So many who've done is that I used to have the same. And if you just throw me fingernail, I'll find you the killer

3 (22m 49s):
Subscribed at Uganda squat through the Vox media podcast network on Spotify or wherever you listen.