1 (3s):
Peter Kafka here, host of land of the giants podcast that explores the biggest and most important tech companies of our time. This season, we're talking about apple Apple's runaway success comes from iconic leadership and one revolutionary product. The iPhone will look closely at the story behind it, how they're made, who makes them and the ramifications of apples ever-growing power.

2 (26s):
When part of your brand is that your code for the world, you are going to be held responsible

1 (32s):
Land of the giants, the apple revolution for Recode and the Vox media podcast network. Check it out. Our season begins on Wednesday, September 22nd. This season is sponsored by web flow. Follow us wherever you get your podcasts.

3 (46s):
Yo, this is Marquez Brownlee, AKA MKBHD, and this is Andrew Manganelli. And we want to introduce you to our podcast way form the newest addition to the Vox media podcast network. So I've spent over 10 years reviewing tech products and consumer electronics for millions of people on the MKBHD YouTube channel. And now on the wave form podcast, Andrew and I use that experience to dig even deeper into latest tech from smartphones to IMAX, to electric cars. So if you're a gadget lover or a tech head, or if you just want to figure out whether the latest gadget is worth your hard earned cash, give us a listen. So you can find way for them at the MKBHD podcast on your favorite podcast app every Friday, see you over there,

0 (1m 24s):
Heads up the today's show is about Jeffrey Epstein and his sex crimes. We will start in a second. Jeffrey Epstein has been dead for just over two years now, but he's still in the news most recently it's because one of his most powerful friends, a lesser prince of England might finally face charges for sexual assaults,

4 (1m 49s):
New legal trouble for Britain's prince Andrew, Virginia Roberts. Giuffre an outspoken accuser of the late convicted sex offender. Jeffrey Epstein is now suing the son of queen Elizabeth

0 (1m 60s):
Virginia. Giuffre says Epstein introduced her to prince Andrew who sexually assaulted her multiple times when she was under 18. Karen woke me up

5 (2m 10s):
In the morning and said, you're going to meet a prince today. I didn't know at that point that I was going to be trafficked to that prince.

0 (2m 18s):
The allegations have been around for years, but for the last few days, this particular Royal's been on the run.

6 (2m 25s):
Sandra's Epstein troubles show no signs of going away anytime soon, but the prince himself has last seen 500 miles north at the Queen's estate in Scotland. Lawyer's for his

7 (2m 36s):
Chooser, say he's trying to evade the civil suit. They filed against him. His,

8 (2m 41s):
You already got gods of apparently turned attempts away to, to serve those papers. So he's scampered off to mommy's house

0 (2m 50s):
On the show today, we're going to try and explain how the ghost of Jeffrey Epstein continues to haunt his friends, as well as his victims. And we're going to try and tackle some of the big unanswered questions surrounding his case. The biggest of all, of course, being what happened to Epstein himself. We reached out to the reporter who really changed the course of this case to get her take Miami Herald reporter Julie K. Brown. She just wrote a book about Epstein and in it there's a chapter titled Jeffrey

9 (3m 20s):
Epstein didn't kill himself, which

0 (3m 23s):
Felt bold. So we had to ask, how can she be sure,

9 (3m 27s):
I don't believe based on what I know, which is maybe a little bit more than most people that, that he was capable or even had wanted to really throw the talent. So to speak at this stage of the game, he was someone who always believed he was above the law and could use his power and influence to get away with almost anything. So it's, it's, you know, for just those simple reasons at the outset, the fact that the medical examiner in New York ruled his death, his suicide is deserving of more scrutiny. Let's put it that way.

0 (4m 8s):
Well, let's take it back to when Jeffrey Epstein lends himself in a Manhattan jail, remind us what he's arrested for.

9 (4m 15s):
Well, of course he was arrested on a new indictment out of New York on several sex trafficking charges involving minors. These charges went back many, many years. However, you know that the sex trafficking statute doesn't have a limitation on it, at least not right now, but it was certain that his lawyers would probably challenge the dated nature of some of these sex acts that he was charged with in any event, he was arrested and there was a bail hearing. He was not given bail. And at the time that he died, he was hiring lawyers left and right for not only his criminal case to fight the charges, but also to come up with another way for him to get bail.

0 (5m 3s):
So when Jeffrey Epstein ends up in the metropolitan correctional center, which you referred to as a notoriously inhumane Gulag in your book, how do he and his team try to fight his case?

9 (5m 16s):
Well, they mounted a, you know, quite a effort to get him bail. His bail package was almost fit for someone who was more like a king because he w he wanted to be released back to his mansion in, in Manhattan, which is one of the largest private residents in the city, and to hire his own security force and to be monitored with some kind of ankle equipment. And he was willing to pay a huge amount of bail in order to spend his days waiting trial in his own a mansion. But of course, part of the scandal involving Epstein to begin with was the one who was originally arrested in Florida.

9 (6m 2s):
He was put in a local jail and he essentially got white glove treatment. And that he also was allowed to leave and it spend time in his lavish office in west Palm beach up to 16 hours a day. And he just basically slept in that jail and was out during the day. So it was probably going to be very unlikely that authorities were going to release him in any fashion. Given the fact that the charges also were pretty strong charges, and he had the means to flee

0 (6m 33s):
Almost as soon as he gets to this metropolitan correctional center. There's this report of attempted suicide, is that right?

9 (6m 41s):
Right. But it was sort of murky. They never confirmed that. It was, I think it was, they have some, first of all, the really bizarre thing was they housed them with this giant beefy former cop. It was accused of a quadruple murder. Now, why would you house, you know, Jeffrey Epstein was not a big man. He was very, you know, slender and 60 something years old. And so why would you house someone like that? Especially since he was accused basically an accused child molester with a big giant former cop who's accused of killing four people.

9 (7m 22s):
It just doesn't make any sense to begin with. So the only reason why I think we we've, we heard that he tried to do something to himself was because the cops lawyer claimed that he had tried to commit suicide, but we don't really know for sure what happened in this first incident, in which they put him into some kind of seclusion or suicide watch, because nobody has ever really mentioned exactly the circumstances that led him to be in that secluded suicide watch area.

0 (7m 55s):
And around this time of the first suppose at attempted suicide, whatever abuse Jeffrey Epstein may have encountered, he is meeting with his lawyers constantly. Is that right?

9 (8m 8s):
Yeah. That was what he did when he was charged here in Florida. Even when he finally did go to the jail, it was almost like he couldn't be alone. He would essentially hire people, even if they were, you know, legal paralegals to just sit with him. He, you know, in the visiting area of, of the jail and therefore he was able to say, well, I'm preparing my case and he didn't have to go back to the cell block and be with, you know, there were a lot of inmates we later heard that had been threatening him, trying to extort him because of course, child molesters accused child molesters or on the lowest rung of the prison hierarchy.

9 (8m 52s):
And there were probably a lot of inmates that were, you know, gunning for him, so to speak. And he felt safer in a, you know, room where he had lawyers and others there with him. And so that's what he did when he was in Florida as well. He had round the clock, lawyers visiting them.

0 (9m 17s):
Before we talk about some of the theories about how he may have died. Let's talk about the story coming from the authorities, the stories coming from the metropolitan correctional center, what do they say transpired?

9 (9m 30s):
We do know that there were two correctional officers on duty at the time, and that they either fell asleep part of the time and or were on their computers, not paying attention. In any event, there was this time period where he, no one was really checking on him because he had just gotten off of suicide watch. They were supposed to check on him every 30 minutes, the records that we know about show that he, that they stopped around 3:30 AM and they allegedly fell asleep. These were two staff members who had been working overtime, and then they falsified records to make it look like they had checked in on him when they didn't.

9 (10m 15s):
All we know is that the guards allege that when they did check on him, they found him hanging from a sheet that was tied to the top bunk of his cell.

0 (10m 34s):
And of course there was eventually an autopsy. What does it reveal?

9 (10m 37s):
Well, the official autopsy simply just said he died of suicide by hanging. We don't know anything. Other than that. However, his family hired a noted forensic pathologist, Dr. Michael Barton, who was present at the autopsy. And he revealed later that Epstein had three broken bones in his neck.

11 (10m 58s):
There were multiple fractures of the Adam's apple, the thyroid cartilage and the thyroid and the higher-ed bone that are more indicative of a homicidal strangulation than as suicidal strangulation.

9 (11m 14s):
And according to Bodden and other experts that I've spoken with, it would have been very difficult if not, almost impossible for him to do something like that by jumping or pushing his body weight against the top cell of his body. There was not enough the loss city for him to do that much damage to his neck at the time, according to Bodon, there were other irregularities, for example, it didn't make sense. He had a sleep apnea machine on the floor of his cell that had all kinds of wires attached to it. I mean, why would you have something like that? In, in cell of someone who had been on suicide, watch his cellmate who had been with him until the day before was mysteriously transferred to another prison.

9 (12m 5s):
So Epstein was alone. You know, you have to ask, well, why would they leave a guy who they just took out a suicide, watch alone, not check him and then leave him in, in a cell with wires there it's just too many strange things that happened in the hours before they found his body.

0 (12m 27s):
And how does that sit with Epstein's victims?

9 (12m 30s):
None of them believe that he killed himself. I mean, one of the victims, I couldn't reach, but I got her mother and her mother, as soon as her mother got on the phone, she said, oh my God, they killed them. There are very few people. I think that believe he killed himself.

0 (12m 51s):
And of course, the reason people want to fill these holes is because at the end of the day, it's pretty easy to believe that a lot of powerful people may have wanted Jeffrey Epstein dead.

9 (13m 1s):
I think that it's very possible. I mean, the way that Jeffrey Epstein conducted himself, he had a whole ecosystem of people around him who either knew what he was doing participated in sex trafficking or at the very least were complicit and look the other way. And we're seeing the fallout now from even people like bill gates, who were friendly with him, not even really close friends with them, just friendly with him and how much that has harmed his reputation. And there were countless other people who were involved with him whose reputations have been really tarnished just by being associated with him.

0 (13m 51s):
More with Julie in a minute on today, explained Support for the authority comes from imperfect food because we're all a little imperfect, right? I mean, sometimes you don't floss your teeth perfectly. Sometimes you don't walk down the stairs perfectly. You miss a step and trip up a little bit. Sometimes you make an imperfect left turn and you get honked at, and you say, all right, well, you're right. You have a point there, sir. I'll do better. Next time. I promise imperfect foods wants to fit in.

0 (14m 34s):
They, they get the food that isn't perfect looking, but perfect tasting. You can bet your bottom dollar right now. They want to get that imperfect food over to you. My imperfect friend. And right now they're offering 20% off to today. Explain listeners. Your first four orders will be 20% off when you go to imperfect foods.com. Just make sure you use the promo code. Explain 20. That is 20% off your first four orders@imperfectfoods.com. The offer code is explained 20 Support for the show, and it comes from nerd wallet, smart money podcast.

0 (15m 16s):
Maybe you're looking for some financial advice, but you don't want to pay for it. Well, NerdWallet's smart. Money podcast is free and it's teaming with financial advice every week on smart money hosts, Sean piles and Liz Weston recap. The financial news that actually affects your life. Then they invited guests from NerdWallet's massive network of financial experts to answer real listeners money questions. Maybe they have the same questions you do. They cover topics like how to approach buying a house as unmarried partners or making sure you're maxing out your Roth IRA, where to go for travel insurance and much more it's practical stuff.

0 (15m 59s):
You can subscribe today wherever you listen to your favorite shows. The show again is NerdWallet smarts, money podcast, Julie, who was Jeffrey Epstein to the very many powerful, wealthy men in his social circle.

9 (16m 22s):
Well, I think he was, you know, a source of funding for a lot of people for causes that they had or research they wanted to do. I mean, he was a, a source of money. I think in some ways he was also very charismatic. You know, he fancied himself as a scientist and intellectual and just someone who was on the same level as some of the brightest and wealthiest people in the world. And he felt that he was, you know, the same way. And so he surrounded himself with those people.

0 (16m 55s):
And how did his affiliations with extremely wealthy, smart, powerful American, and even foreign men help him evade accountability in life?

9 (17m 9s):
Well, I think it wasn't a question of, they helped him evaded. I think that they helped burnish his reputation and his standing in, in a lot of different places. I mean, for one thing, I think he used his associations with them to help trap other women into his orbit. You know, they would see that he is, you know, photographs of him with some of the most famous people in the world. And these women, I think, and, and girls felt that he was so important and that combined with the promises that he made to help their careers or help them with their education, sorta trapped them into this cycle of sexual violence and abuse.

0 (17m 57s):
And obviously we talked about prince Andrew at the top of the show, but I'm wondering if you could tell me how this ghost of Jeffrey Epstein has haunted other powerful people he associated with.

9 (18m 8s):
Well, we know that Les Wexner is the founder of L brands and also owned Victoria's secret. He was forced to step down

13 (18m 18s):
Times article says Wexner was warned by other L brands executives in the mid nineties, that Epstein was presenting himself to women as a recruiter of Victoria's secret models.

9 (18m 28s):
Of course he claims he knew nothing about what Jeffrey Epstein was doing. And he himself claims that Epstein stole money from him. Although he never reported it to authorities or C seem to see fit, to find a way to re recoup,

14 (18m 42s):
But everyone has to feel enormous regret for the advantage that was taken of so many young women. And that's just unexplainable, a porn.

9 (18m 57s):
You have Leon black, you know, with Apollo capital, his company launched an investigation into why Mr. Blackwood have invested so much money in someone or put his, his own money in Jeffrey Epstein's hands. Given the fact that he was suspected of being a sex trafficker and a pedophile

15 (19m 18s):
Well management CEO, Leon black paid sex predator, Jeffrey Epstein, $158 million for financial advice. But an outside law firm says the black wasn't involved with Epstein's criminal.

9 (19m 29s):
And now, you know, we have bill gates who, whose wife reportedly cautioned and warned Mr. Gates about being involved with Epstein sheet. She knew at the outset that there was something really wrong about him. And we just heard recently that Mr. Gates has apologized and said it was a big mistake for him to associate with, with Epstein.

16 (19m 51s):
You know, I made a mistake in judgment that I thought that, that those discussions would lead literally to billions of dollars going to global health turned out. I was a bad judgment. That was a Mirage. None of that money ever appeared. And I gave him some benefit by the association. So I, you know, I made a doubly wrong mistake there,

9 (20m 11s):
Prince Andrew, he was friends with Epstein, but he denies that he participated or knew anything about Epstein's crimes. However, you know, we had the difference with him and some of the other people is we have a photograph of him with one of Epstein's victims with his arm around her waist, prince Andrew.

7 (20m 30s):
It has repeatedly denied the allegations, telling the BBC in 2019,

17 (20m 35s):
I have no recollection of ever meeting this lady

7 (20m 38s):
In the same interview. He also suggested this photo at Galane Maxwell's house in London was doctored saying,

17 (20m 44s):
No, I do not remember anything.

9 (20m 47s):
There was another witness

18 (20m 48s):
That saw, saw him with a Virginia Giuffre who was one of Epstein's victims. So he's having a hard time denying that he did anything with this young woman who we have a photograph of with. So it'll be interesting to see because he's, you know, part of the Royal family, he has somewhat been ostracized by a lot of members of his family and the public, I think in Britain and Galen Maxwell, who is now a waiting trial in New York on charges of sex trafficking and being basically accused of helping Epstein, execute this sex trafficking, operation, and enticed minor girls got them to trust her, then delivered them into the trap that she and Epstein had set for them.

18 (21m 37s):
She pretended to be a woman. They could trust all the while she was setting them up to be sexually abused by Epstein. And in some cases by Maxwell herself,

9 (21m 49s):
Of course, she denies it. She's taking a page out of the obscene defense playbook and that she's hiring the best defense that our money can buy. And these lawyers are very aggressive and they're peppering and giving these prosecutors a lot of legal motions to respond to, you know, which was one of the things I've seen did the first time around where he would just give me would just basically burry prosecutors and in tons of motions to the point that the prosecutors didn't even want to deal with his lawyers anymore. So she's doing a similar, a similar tactic and her family is also launched a PR campaign by going online and on social media to plead the fact that she should be considered innocent until proven guilty.

0 (22m 37s):
I know you've spent a lot of time with Jeffrey Epstein's victims. Julie, do they feel cheated out of justice thus far?

9 (22m 46s):
I think they do. I think that they, they're still very angry and are skeptical that prosecutors are going to continue this investigation beyond Jeffrey Epstein and Galen Maxwell. They believe that there were a lot of other people that were involved and particularly men who were engaged in, in sex with minors. And they believe that authorities should go after everyone who helped Epstein. And, you know, I think that there, there is some concern that authorities are going to charge and, you know, possibly convict Galen Maxwell, and then not go any further with the case.

9 (23m 29s):
So there are some victims out there that are pressuring prosecutors to continue their investigation so that other people are held accountable.

19 (23m 46s):
What hurts even more ZOS than if I wasn't afraid to come forward sooner, then maybe he wouldn't have done it to other girls. I feel really guilty till this day. I feel really guilty

20 (23m 59s):
For the past 16 years. I have felt isolated in my experience. And the lack of consequences for Epstein's actions has left me feeling as though there is no justice for me here.

19 (24m 13s):
They failed us before don't fail us again. Exactly. That's all we're asking, Even though maybe I don't look it cause I'm so sad, but also happy tears because I'm able to, you know, let myself go of this burden. I feel brave. I feel strong more than ever right now.

20 (24m 35s):
My hope is that this case and the resulting public discourse will help me to take back some of the power. And self-esteem I lost as a victim of Jeffrey Epstein's crimes.

19 (24m 47s):
Jeffrey thought that we were disposable and he threw us all away. And look, who's still standing.

0 (25m 4s):
Julie K. Brown is an investigative journalist with the Miami Herald. Her book on Jeffrey Epstein sex crimes is called perversion of justice. The Jeffrey Epstein story. Our episode today was produced by Halima Shaw. I'm Sean Ramez from it's today explained.