0 (1s):
Okay, recording. You have a story to tell and maybe you've thought I should start a podcast. Meet anchor. It's a powerful app that lets you record a podcast anywhere and get it heard everywhere. All you need to do is download the free anchor app and hit record. Just go to anchor.fm/get started. Make a podcast with anchor that's anchor.fm/get started. Great. I think we got it.

2 (39s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. We're going to get caught up on a story that's been developing in Texas. It starts with the state's attorney general a couple of weeks ago. Ken Paxton wrote a legal opinion about transgender children and the medical care that some of them receive saying the gender reassignment surgeries and the use of drugs like puberty blockers can legally constitute child abuse. Four days later, governor Greg Abbott directed the Texas department of family and protective services to investigate the parents of trans kids who are getting what's known as gender affirming care. Now the big question was would an agency whose stated mission is to protect children from abuse, follow the governor's order and investigate parents who are getting them care.

2 (1m 25s):
We called Lauren McGaughey. She's an investigative reporter with the Dallas morning news. She covers government accountability, criminal justice and LGBTQ issues.

3 (1m 34s):
Our early reports are that several parents of transgender children have been visited by child protective services and have been questioned. It's unclear at this time, whether there's been any further action, we have not heard about a child being taken. We have not heard of that happening, but several parents have been and are being actively investigated. According to those parents.

2 (2m 3s):
Lauren, can you walk us through how this works? Let's say that I'm a parent and I believe my child needs gender affirming care. What does that term actually mean? What does it entail?

3 (2m 15s):
Most people under the age of 18 who are dealing with gender dysphoria, believe that they are transgender will receive only counseling. So a parent and a child will go to their doctor. They'll talk about what the appropriate kind of care might be. And most children who are dealing with us receive talk therapy, what you are I might do. If we needed to talk to someone, go to a therapist, the next step is or can be social transition, which is starting to live in their own gender. This could look like introducing themselves by different name, different pronoun or dressing differently. Among other treatments is receiving some kind of a medical treatment like puberty blockers or home hormone therapy.

3 (3m 2s):
And those create mostly reversible changes in a miner's body. This could be something like a voice might get deeper or someone might grow more hair or less hair because they're on hormone therapy. The misinformation around gender for main care for trans kids that you'll hear a lot from Republican politicians is that they say that people are being castrated, that there are actual surgeries happening on children. And you know that that's a scare tactic. The w path, which is the world professional association for transgender health says that surgery is not recommended until a patient has reached the legal age of maturity to give consent for something like that and has lived continuously for a year in their gender role.

2 (3m 54s):
So let's talk a bit about hormone therapy. My understanding based on what you said is let's say a child who has not yet gone through puberty says, I am transgender. I'm not a boy. I'm a girl. A doctor might give that child puberty blockers in order to prevent that child from maturing into a gender that that tile believes is not their gender. Is that essentially how it works?

3 (4m 18s):
Yes. So puberty's presence are drugs that cause a temporary pause in someone's puberty by blocking sex hormones like testosterone or estrogen. This was created originally for kids that were having really early onset puberty, but weren't trans. So this was a, this was a type of treatment that would R was already being used for some children. Oh, so yeah, so it was being used in other children that were experiencing early onset puberty, puberty suppressants are also reversible, which means that when you stop taking them, the puberty will restart and continue at a normal rate.

3 (5m 2s):
So some adolescents in collaboration with their support team and treatment team might begin to pursue hormone therapy and hormone therapy is really it's different for every person. You know, it's mostly reversible for many people, but it really depends on what kind of hormones they're taking and how early they take those hormones. So there's varying research on, on that. You know, there are indications that hormone therapy may have an effect on long-term fertility, especially if it started at a very young age, but again, these are conversations and, and research that's happening now.

3 (5m 44s):
And we're only really starting to get, have a good understanding of how this affects people. Long-term

2 (5m 51s):
Gender affirming care beyond just talk therapy, difficult to get. Does your child walk into the doctor and say, I was born the wrong gender. I want to be a boy. I am not a girl. And then immediately get hormones or puberty blockers.

3 (6m 7s):
There are not many doctors who consider this a specialty of theirs. And so if a, if a parent is dealing specifically with this, their best case for having the full range of options open to them is to go to a doctor that considers this a specialty here in Texas, with these new threats against this care, from some of the most powerful politicians in the state, there are concerns that doctors will not be willing to provide that care, provide those options. If they're concerned that they may be targeted, we've received emails from parents of transgender children who are very frightened.

3 (6m 52s):
We've heard already reports of families with Tanja, transgender children, leaving the state, moving away because they are concerned about being targeted is the idea

2 (7m 5s):
Yeah. That a doctor would tell on me, the parent a teacher would tell on me who is reporting me in the scenario.

3 (7m 13s):
You know, oftentimes individuals who report allegations of child abuse, their identities are not public, but individuals like teachers are required under state law to report allegations of child abuse. So there is a concern that certain teachers might feel pressured to tell CPS that they are aware of a transgender child that they're connected to who is receiving gender affirming care. I'm not saying that that's what teachers are going to do, but they may feel some pressure given that they are statutorily required to report child abuse doctors as well.

2 (7m 54s):
An interesting thing that's happened here. The doctors are the ones who prescribe puberty blockers to a child. And yet the governor is saying investigate the parents. Although I imagine there are plenty of people who don't think any investigation is warranted here. Why target parents and not doctors?

3 (8m 16s):
Well, I think last year, lawmakers tried to pass a bill that would have changed the definition of child abuse to include this care. They did not succeed. And so a lot of political Watchers are looking at the governor's order and the attorney General's opinion as an end run around that failure. This is a way through more of an administrative action through state agency actions to try to target gender affirming care for transgender kids and CPS child protective services. Their most direct connection is with the parent.

3 (8m 58s):
What's interesting is doctors, some doctors are already pushing back and saying that as a doctor, they are also required under law to report child abuse, but they believe that gender affirming care is appropriate for trans kids. And they don't think that it's child abuse. So reporting that actually violates their ethical obligation to do the best for their patient.

2 (9m 28s):
This is not yet a law. Could it become a law? It could,

3 (9m 33s):
It could. The legislature meets again in 2023, if lawmakers wanted, they could try to change the law and put this directly into statute. Or if it goes into the courts and finishes up in court, the court could also come down and decide whether this is truly child abuse or not. So those are the only two ways that we'll actually have a, you know, a real ending, a real outcome to this argument is through the courts or through the state legislature,

2 (10m 6s):
The ACLU and Lambda legal sued immediately. And then yesterday there was another development, a district court judge in Travis county granted a restraining order. So for now the investigations will stop. Although it's certainly not clear whether that's going to ease the minds of parents and kids who could be affected by this, but what is the lawsuit say? So

3 (10m 29s):
Lambda legal and the ACLU of Texas went to court in Travis county to try to stop an investigation into a child protective services employee. So an employee who works for the department of family and protective services, which is the umbrella agency over CPS has a transgender child. And that employee was put on administrative leave according to the lawsuit and is now suing because of this, this particular policy.

2 (11m 0s):
My goodness. So one of the first people targeted by this is a person who is employed by the agency that has been directed to do the investigations. That's correct. Wow. How are people in Texas viewing this order?

3 (11m 15s):
There are some individuals on the very conservative side that agree that gender affirming care for trans kids should be defined as abuse. And then there's a lot of people who have transgender children or know a trans kid who thinks that this care is absolutely vital and lifesaving. What I think is important to note is politics is going to be divisive. There's always going to be people on either end of an issue, especially one like this, but the medical community. They all support appropriate care for transgender children, including puberty, blockers, and hormone treatments.

3 (12m 2s):
So in addition to the AMA, the APA, all of the national groups, the groups in Texas, who, whose job is to determine what care is appropriate for people, all support, age appropriate, gender affirming care for trans children.

4 (12m 38s):
This is advertiser content from the American cancer society.

5 (12m 42s):
Dear black men, I'm here to encourage all my brothers to get screening tests that helps find cancer early. When it might be easier to treat in 2015, I's diagnosed with colorectal cancer. I had an emergency surgery to move malignant tumor that had ruptured. The real story is that before I had the symptoms, my doctor had been recommending that I get a screening colonoscopy. I kept putting off scheduling it, but I'm glad we caught it before the cancer had spread Today, I'm able to enjoy my family because my cancer was detected early.

5 (13m 27s):
As black men. We face many systemic social economic and racial challenges. According to the American cancer society, black people have the highest death rate and shorter survival rate of any racial ethnic group in the U S for most cancers. But it doesn't have to be this way. Getting regular screenings can help find certain cancers early and can even help prevent colorectal cancer. Listen, my brothers paying attention to our health and wellness. It empowers us to persevere. I'm so blessed to be here today, to share my story with you. Sincerely Dave Ford,

4 (14m 9s):
To learn more about how the American cancer society is addressing cancer disparities through direct work and communities and investments in making the healthcare system more equitable for patients and their families visit cancer.org/health equity.

6 (14m 34s):
Unexplainable is a show from Vox about scientific mysteries. And this spring we're bringing you a six part series all about our census.

7 (14m 44s):
All knowledge must come through the sentence, all that we perceive and all of the awareness of our daily existence,

8 (14m 52s):
Light, double rainbow, oh my God. Sound touch odors and tastes. What are your thoughts concerning, but human senses. What are we actually hearing when we're hearing? What is the mind's eye? How do we not know how smell works? Can you heal with touch? How many tastes are there? All the awareness, all knowledge doesn't make sense.

6 (15m 24s):
I subscribed to unexplainable for episodes every Wednesday, starting March 2nd, wherever you get your podcasts,

2 (15m 34s):
Lauren McGaughey investigative reporter with the Dallas morning news. A thing I've been very curious about when did lawmakers in Texas begin to train their attention on transgender children and on writing laws that would affect them. And I asked because it would seem that this is a very small population and yet lawmakers almost seem fixated on, on trans issues. Was there a big bang moment when suddenly you notice this as a reporter becoming an issue, there was

9 (16m 6s):
A huge cheer then singing as the decision reaches the crowd out front,

3 (16m 11s):
The Supreme court case legalizing gay marriage across the nation,

9 (16m 16s):
Grueling, struck down the bans on same-sex marriage, still in effect in 14 states, all of them in the south, in the Midwest.

3 (16m 22s):
At that point, you know, many conservative politicians, conservative legal scholars believed that they had lost on the gay marriage issue. And so the attention was redirected towards the trans community. After that gay marriage ruling, we saw legislatures in states like Texas, trying to pass a bathroom bills. You remember that whole fight several years ago.

10 (16m 49s):
And if Ron Simmons authored a house version requiring public school students to use the bathroom of the gender on their birth date,

3 (16m 55s):
This is legislation that would have blocked trans people from using the bathrooms that conform to their gender identity.

11 (17m 4s):
How do you balance someone's rise as a transgender child or person with the rights of other people that say, you know what? I respect that. And I don't want to degrade that, but I also don't want my children sharing, changing, changing rooms and locker rooms with people of the opposite biological

3 (17m 23s):
In Texas, there was a huge fight over the bathroom bills. They failed, they were not passed. And after that failure, we saw a shift in attention to trans kids. The first bills that were kind of the primary focus were the trans sports bills.

12 (17m 46s):
Texas Senate has passed a bill restricting Chen transgender youth from playing on sports teams, consistent with their gender.

3 (17m 55s):
And then more recently we've seen this attention on access to health care for trans kids. So there has been this focus on the trans community for several years now. And more recently it's come, the focus has shown a lot more brightly on trans kids.

2 (18m 18s):
It seems to me, and tell me if I'm wrong, has this become one of those issues that in practice affects very few people and is a very personal thing between and among families, children, parents, their loved ones, but it seems as if it's been made into a political issue that almost everybody feels as though they have to have an opinion on.

3 (18m 42s):
I can agree with that. I mean, it's a litmus test issue, you know, 10, 15, 20 years ago, the litmus test issue, might've been gay rights. Might've been gay marriage. Now the issue is the rights of transgender people and even more my newly the rights of trans kids and the parents of trans kids, while it does affect a technically a small number of people. We have to remember that for every trans kid, there's a guardian, their siblings, there's an extended family, their teachers, their friends. And so the ripple effects for who, you know, might be emotionally affected by an issue like this go far beyond the trans person themselves.

3 (19m 24s):
But yes, the most dire consequences of targets like this do fall on that individual. And it does happen to be, you know, a very, very small number of people having to deal with this burden.

2 (19m 35s):
Do you think this attempt by governor Abbott and by other Republican legislators, do you think that healthcare for trans youth is going to continue to be something that Texans will hear about and we'll see litigated and we'll have to have opinions on almost certainly because it is, it is in front of them all the time.

3 (19m 53s):
Well, that's a good question. We will know in the future Tuesday, March 1st was election day in Texas primary election day. And governor Abbott won his primary campaign outright. He's not going into a runoff political observers in Texas believe that this issue of healthcare for trans youth became such a flashpoint because Texas politicians, Republicans were dealing with their first real competitive GOP primary season in a long time. So we had people like governor, Greg Abbott being pressured by people from within his party to move in a more conservative direction on these issues.

3 (20m 40s):
Now that Greg Abbott has won his primary, it will be seen whether he continues to aggressively push this issue, pursue it in the courts. And more while Abbott one has primary Texas attorney general, Ken Paxton, who actually issued the opinion that this whole thing was based on did not win his primary outright. He is going into a runoff with another Republican George P. Bush of the Bush family. And because the Republican primary is now gone to a runoff in at least one of the major statewide races for attorney general, this issue could remain at the top of the political conversation for at least a few more months.

2 (21m 25s):
I think there's a temptation to look at Texas and say, that's just Texas, Texas is different in a lot of ways. When you look at Texas from where you sit in Austin, do you look around at the rest of the country and think, ah, this is not just Texas. This could very easily spread beyond Texas to many states in the country. I do believe

3 (21m 47s):
Leave that where Texas goes, oftentimes other red states follow. We have seen that with other issues. We have seen Texas kind of set the bar on a conservative issue. And then other states have followed suit either with what their state legislatures are focusing on or what elected officials focus on. Sometimes I see that coming out of Florida to kind of Florida, Texas being places to watch, you could say the same for California and New York for liberal policies. You know where those, these are huge states.

3 (22m 29s):
They're very populous and they lead on these issues.

2 (22m 34s):
Lauren McGaha investigative reporter with the Dallas morning news. Thank you so much for taking the time today. We really appreciate it.

3 (22m 41s):
Thanks for having me.

2 (22m 52s):
Today's show was produced by Halima Shaw with help from Hadi Milwaukee. It was edited by Matthew Colette engineered by Paul mousey. And fact-checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Noel king today explained as part of the Vox media podcast network.