1 (3s):
The documentary Shiny Happy People. Dugger Family Secrets was Amazon's biggest documentary debut ever. It's about the evangelical Christian family who were stars of TLC's 19 kids and counting some things about the Duggars were already well known. They were part of a movement where having and then homeschooling many, many children was encouraged creating an army for God. It was sometimes called less well known was that the Duggars considered themselves and their kids part of something called The. Joshua Generation. It sounds almost conspiratorial, but these kids were raised to become influential in places where influence mattered.

2 (38s):
The goal was Christian homeschool graduates. Who would be US senators? Who would be US presidents, and most importantly who would be us Supreme Court justices

1 (50s):
Coming up on today explained what is The Joshua Generation and why are some evangelicals turning their backs on it? It's some of the most expensive meat in the world, but is it even meat? This summer, for the first time, Americans are gonna be able to try actual chicken meat that didn't involve killing a chicken. This

3 (1m 13s):
Episode of Gastropod, we are among the very first people to taste our way through these brand new lab grown offerings. Chicken, hamburger, bacon, salmon, blue fin tuna. We tasted it

1 (1m 23s):
All. We wanted to know whether it matches up to the real thing, but we also wanted to know if it can ever really replace meat from animals. Not to mention keep our planet from going up in smoke.

3 (1m 34s):
Find gastropod wherever you get your podcasts and taste the future.

4 (1m 40s):
You've probably heard about the job of an intimacy coordinator, but do you know what they actually do?

5 (1m 46s):
And every intimacy coordinator's kit is gonna be some form of Mint of really, I think most of the time Wait. Oh, a hundred percent, huh? Then we add in the full retro Listerine breath strip, which is crucial

4 (1m 57s):
Several years into the era of the intimacy coordinator. We ask what they've changed for the better in Hollywood and what still needs work. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast,

1 (2m 25s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King, Kristin COEs. Dume is a historian and author of the book, Jesus and John Wayne. She was featured in shiny, happy people explaining things about the evangelical movement, and so I called her to explain to us what The Joshua Generation is.

6 (2m 42s):
It was a term coined by Michael Ferris who may not be familiar to people outside of evangelical spaces, but within conservative evangelicalism. He's an extremely important figure. A lawyer who founded the Homeschool Legal Defense Association has been instrumental in advancing a conservative legal agenda and in training up a younger generation of culture warriors. And that's The Joshua Generation. It is supposed to be a generation now who would be trained and equipped to take back the country for God to understand the agenda of The Joshua Generation, you have to go back a little further to the 1960s and 1970s.

8 (3m 30s):
We're asking you, our friend watching through television to join us as these are joining us here in the Big 10 Cathedral. We want your compassion,

6 (3m 40s):
And this is really the the rise of the Christian right that we're talking about, but a particular strand of it, a theological foundation that revolves around the ideas of an obscure a person by the name of rj Rush Dooney.

9 (3m 56s):
Now, this tells us something about man and about education that only Christian education can succeed.

6 (4m 3s):
He essentially said that the society needed to be reconstructed. And so his philosophy is called Christian Reconstructionism. It needed to be reconstructed according to God's Old Testament law.

10 (4m 16s):
I think people sense that things are falling apart, that a worldwide breakdown is underway of our culture. The state is a bankrupt institution. As a result, they're going to have to find it religiously or go into a dark age

6 (4m 32s):
Authority and hierarchy was critical. A rush in his own ideas were also white supremacists.

10 (4m 39s):
God is going to give the country to somebody else if the white Christian population has no regard for the blessings they received.

6 (4m 49s):
But essentially it was an agenda to bring all of American society, American law, American culture in line with his interpretation of the Old Testament.

1 (5m 5s):
I wonder in this whether we are talking about evangelical Christians or a certain type of evangelical

6 (5m 11s):
Christian. Yeah, certainly not all evangelical Christians would be followers of Rush Doy. He was fringe. His ideas were powerful in a small group of conservative Presbyterian denominations. It's influential in particular spaces, but especially in the homeschool movement because core to Rush uni's philosophy was that God has ordained authorities in life and it is wrong. It is evil to usurp the proper authorities. So that's the authority of the father and the husband inside of a family. It's the authority of parents over children.

6 (5m 52s):
It's the authority of family over against government. But then the ultimate goal was for the good Christians who were properly trained to observe these proper hierarchies, to ultimately then go out and influence the rest of culture to reconstruct America, to make it into a Christian nation once again. Tonight,

11 (6m 13s):
19 kids and counting star Jim, Bob Dugger announcing today that he is running for a seat in the Arkansas Senate.

6 (6m 19s):
Now, this is not the mainstream movement of evangelicalism, but historically you can see how his ideas influenced figures who were mainstream and through The Joshua, Generation have really gone kind of mainstream into Republican politics, training up young people to work in government, to campaign to elect officials who will further this agenda.

1 (6m 44s):
So uni provides the foundation, but then another man takes his ideas and brings them further into the mainstream to families like the, he founded a group called The Institute for Basic Life Principles. Tell me about Bill Gothard.

6 (6m 59s):
Bill Gothard founded this organization in the 1960s in order to help Christian parents raise their kids. 1960s is when the counterculture, civil rights movement, feminist movement, all of these rights movements were disrupting the status quo.

8 (7m 22s):
I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up of. Its

12 (7m 34s):
From this nation for all it hope and all its hope will not be fully free until all it citizens

13 (7m 43s):
Now. Thanks Spirit Equality, the and the of many of my more for sided sisters. I no longer accept society judgment that my group is second class.

6 (7m 57s):
A lot of parents were asking, how do we raise our kids? And Christian parents were especially concerned and he stepped in and he offered answers. The answers that he offered were structured around a very conservative, even reactionary interpretation of the Bible. It involved teaching patriarchal authority

14 (8m 17s):
As long as we're under these umbrellas of protection, Satan cannot get through with destructive temptations.

6 (8m 23s):
A male leadership teaching girls to be modest, their role was as homemakers, as wives, as mothers who would lead up the next generation of young Christians.

15 (8m 36s):
We want to pass on to young ladies what it means to be lovely and feminine.

6 (8m 43s):
And he really emphasized teachings like sexual purity. He called eye traps. Anything that a woman would wear that might draw a man's attention or fill him with lust and so much responsibility was placed on obedience.

16 (8m 59s):
The first time I say it, you obey it. And they can quote that with mommy and we practice, yes ma'am, I will obey you. That she

6 (9m 8s):
Obedience to your God ordained authorities, instant obedience. Cheerful obedience. And he taught parents to train up their children to give that instant obedience. So corporal punishment was essential to his recommendations for child rearing. If

8 (9m 26s):
He screams too hard with the first five, gets hysterical, wait, you know, a little psychological terror, sometime more effective than the pain.

6 (9m 34s):
Even little babies needed to be disciplined harshly.

14 (9m 37s):
The real benefit of that is that when a child sees this neutral object coming out of the drawer or whatever, it becomes like a placement.

6 (9m 47s):
In order to guarantee that children would be obedient and submissive to their parents, their God ordained authorities, so that through all of life they would continue to act in that submission to their proper authorities.

1 (10m 3s):
How many people were involved in this? How, how big did it get?

6 (10m 7s):
So the numbers are hard to track and they are coming from a gohar himself. You're talking about probably a couple of million people who have had fairly direct exposure to Thar's teaching through communities. But indirectly you're talking probably tens of millions who have been shaped in some way by Thar's teachings. And often they aren't even aware that that's where these ideas are coming from.

1 (10m 35s):
How did he actually become involved in homeschooling

6 (10m 38s):
For gohar? Homeschooling was absolutely critical because public schools interfered with parental authority. You don't want government schools as people often called them in these spaces instructing your children. And so Gohar not only encouraged homeschooling in his seminars, he also developed a homeschool curriculum called the Advanced Training Institute or a T I. And so parents could use his materials, his curriculum to train their children. Well, the

17 (11m 11s):
Purpose of the Advanced Training Institute is to train up young men and women to become leaders of the next century. And I think today we have so much of a a negative peer pressure coming in from outside world that young people need a role model, someone to look up to

1 (11m 28s):
What was the intended outcome for kids who went through Christian homeschooling.

6 (11m 33s):
What they wanted for their kids depended in some cases on if it was a son or a daughter. Many within this movement didn't want their daughters to go on to college. And so there's a kind of offshoot here, the Stay at Home Daughter movement, which suggests that, you know, once you finish your, your schooling, then you stay at home under the authority of your father until through courtship you are then handed off to a husband. And so that's part of this movement. Not all members of even the conservative wing of the homeschool movement went along with that. Many did send their their girls to college, but usually to Christian colleges as kind of the next step for these homeschool kids to further equip them to fulfill their God-ordained roles.

6 (12m 22s):
They knew that their numbers were small, very small, but they focused on placing their graduates in positions of great influence. And this is where the broader network comes in. Many Republican candidates and Republican members of Congress would draw interns from Patrick Henry College. Patrick

18 (12m 41s):
Henry College seeks to produce new leaders who, like the founding fathers, are trained in the traditions of freedom, equipped with the skills of leadership and instilled with the character of Christ in his word.

6 (12m 53s):
Their students would work on political campaigns for Republicans across the country. So their goal was power and strategic positions of power throughout the government.

1 (13m 5s):
Do we know any of the people who graduated from Patrick Henry College? Is there, is there like a Supreme court justice or anything that we should know about

6 (13m 12s):
N Not yet in terms of Supreme court, but probably the most famous member of Jen j is Madison Cawthorne.

19 (13m 21s):
And so I'm telling you, all of you moms here are the people who I said were the most vicious in our, in our movement. If you were raising a young man, please raise them to be a monster.

6 (13m 31s):
So he would be an example. He did not graduate from Patrick Henry College. He didn't make it all the way through, but he is in some ways a kind of poster boy or at least used to be, for the potential for these graduates.

1 (13m 44s):
So ultimately, would we say that the plan, the plan for The Joshua, Generation succeeded or failed or partially succeeded? How would you characterize what what has happened?

6 (13m 54s):
I would say they're not done yet. They're not done. This is not a democratic movement, but it is a movement that is very strategic and intent upon using our democratic mechanisms to place themselves in positions of power so that they can take hold of this country, reshape its laws and and bring it into accord with their vision

1 (14m 28s):
Coming up. I took a drive out to Virginia to meet two former members of The Joshua Generation.

21 (14m 44s):
Hello, I'm Mr. Perel. I'm a psychotherapist and host of the podcast. Where should we begin? Relationships, expectations are at an all time high and yet the norms are less and less clear and we are literally making up the new norms as we go. Whether it's your work, relationships, friendships, or romantic relationships. I invite you to enter into my office and listen in on my sessions where I help people explore the challenges and choices in their relationships. You will listen intensely to them, but you will actually see yourselves and in the process you become unstuck and empowered in your own relationships.

21 (15m 32s):
Join me in my office every Monday morning for a new episode. Listen and follow. Where should we begin on your favorite podcast app?

22 (15m 44s):
Unexplainable is got a new two-part series. We're calling the Black Box. It's all about the mysterious hole at the center of modern artificial intelligence.

23 (15m 52s):
I've built these models, I've studied these models, we just don't understand what's going on here.

22 (15m 57s):
Even the experts don't really know how these systems work or what they can do

23 (16m 1s):
If we open up Chacha, pg or a system like it. You just see millions of numbers flipping around and we just have no idea what any of it means. We

24 (16m 10s):
Are rushing at breakneck speed towards more and more advanced forms of ai.

25 (16m 16s):
You know, when I see something that is well beyond my understanding, I'm scared. And that was something well beyond my understanding.

22 (16m 24s):
I'm know I'm Hassenfeld, but this isn't my voice and it hasn't been the whole time. It's just an AI made that sounds sort of like me. An unexplainable news series starts July 12th, wherever you get your podcast

0 (16m 45s):
For today explained.

26 (16m 53s):
I'm Christina Beal and I am a stay-at-home mom.

27 (16m 56s):
I'm Erin Beal and I'm a software engineer. Very

1 (16m 58s):
Cool. Alright, so guys, in the first half of our show we heard about this term that I will admit was unfamiliar to me until a couple of weeks ago, something called The Joshua. Generation. Can you tell me what does that term mean to you?

27 (17m 10s):
Growing up there was sort of a constellation of beliefs that probably could fall under the category of Joshua generation. I don't know that I was ever told like you are The, Joshua, Generation, but the ideas around it about us kind of being separate from the world, pulled out into homeschool and raised up to be in very militaristic language kind of kids that were going to grow up and We were going to literally storm the political and cultural scene and be part of the movement to turn the nation back to our parents' view of, you know, a good godly nation

26 (17m 44s):
In my family. In the environment in which We were raised women had the role of having a lot of babies to sort of out populate any other religious groups, as silly as that sounds, that was, that was the stated goal, scorn birth control and have as many babies as you possibly can in order to raise up a, just like flood of Christians. That was the role I was taught, that you were to be a mom and have a lot of babies. And another big thing was you were supposed to help your husband. There was language such as the husband sits in the gates with the elders of the land, but the woman is supposed to be content to stay at home.

26 (18m 28s):
She's not supposed to have those kinds of aspirations.

1 (18m 30s):
Were you both homeschooled? Yes,

27 (18m 32s):
I definitely had the sense being homeschooled that the rest of the world just wouldn't understand the world that we had and that that was sort of an indictment of the rest of the world and we had the truth and someday maybe the rest of the world would be able to understand. But until then, you know, whatever we're doing inside is sort of by definition best.

1 (18m 56s):
What were you learning in first grade, second grade, seventh grade, eighth grade at home that maybe you wouldn't have been learning if you had gone to public school?

27 (19m 4s):
Well, Christianity was certainly infused in all of the topics I did have. I think I had an adequate baseline academic education. I had typical subjects, but they were very much colored with what I would now understand as kind of Christian nationalists bias and, and slant. don don't ever remember learning about how, for example, the civil rights movement really came to Farhi and I certainly remember being told on numerous occasions that racism is kind of a thing of the past and we've dealt with it, which I now understand is not at all the case. Basically they'd start with the Bible and then try to connect it to various school topics and it, it would be some things that are almost hard to put in the words cuz they're so strange.

27 (19m 44s):
Like a diagram helping you identify the eye traps of female dress, which is just basically teaching me slut shaming as I understand it, there were no boundary between religious indoctrination and education. The two were kind of just always the same thing. I was absolutely led to believe that evolution is really just a big conspiracy, that there's no evidence for it. That all the scientists out there are basically just wanting to disprove God and please themselves and come up with excuses to not believe in God. That that's really what the foundation of evolution was about. I really believed that because that's all I knew. It really took adulthood and reading books that weren't trying to disprove God.

27 (20m 26s):
They were simply explaining science and explaining the data and explaining the history behind how we got to our understanding. That made me realize that that rhetoric was basically a lie and I had no outside voice as a homeschooled child to even begin to know that that could be wrong.

26 (20m 43s):
I think for both of us, our families sort of doubled down in these movements as We were teenagers and as We were becoming young adults with our own fledgling interests and ideas. And that's the opposite. It's, it's more of an air we breathed than like, I learned this specific lesson on this specific day, but of you've gotta submit to authority. You are not an adult until you are, I mean, Erin heard this, you're not an adult until you're walking down the aisle to get married. That somehow you magically become an adult at that, that point in time. They call

27 (21m 20s):
It the transfer of authority.

26 (21m 22s):
Yeah. So there was not this gradual blossoming into adulthood, blossoming into your own person. There was at that time when our parents sensed that there was more of a lockdown restriction, make them more who we want them to be.

1 (21m 36s):
So on the day you guys walked down the aisle, it's a Christian wedding. Oh yeah. Yeah. And the understanding for both of you at that point in that moment was, what year was this?

27 (21m 45s):
2012.

1 (21m 46s):
2012. A little over a decade ago. The understanding for you both as you walked down the aisle that day was Christian household homeschooling For sure. Yeah. As many kids as we possibly can. And you're fully bought in and then we're sitting here today because at some point something changed. Yeah, what happened?

27 (22m 4s):
I would say having kids because then you're looking at another human being and filtering your ideology through, here's a human being that I love and I had my own values and I had my own thoughts. And one of the very first things that I felt like ideologically I started to peel away was with discipline. We had been taught not just that spanking is okay, but that it's an imperative and it is godly and it's good and you love your child if you hit them. But the first time I had to, supposedly based on the training that I'd received hit my child, something just didn't connect and I couldn't do it.

26 (22m 42s):
I had spanked them a couple small times when they were very young, but it was this realization of like, wait a second, science matters, like established knowledge matters and there's research here that shows that this can be harmful to children. And that's sort of when I was like, I mean we rarely, rarely, rarely, I rarely spanked our children and it was categorically different than what We were raised with. But again, it was this idea that you must do this. And I realized like, wait, don don't think I have to. And I think it was because of science,

27 (23m 19s):
Basically the moment that I realized so much of what I believed to be absolutely true was really just a presupposition. And that I had been taught that that's actually how you know truth is just by presupposing all these things we've given you. It fell apart as soon as I could actually think critically and engage data outside my worldview and not just write it off as a conspiracy. There is actual science and data that that supports views that contradict what I had been told.

26 (23m 44s):
We began going to a still rather conservative evangelical church. Yeah. But that was a breath of fresh air for us. Yeah. There were people there who weren't having as many children as they could. There were people there who sent their kids to public school. Yeah. And it was a slow and gradual process of us, you know? Yeah. We would, we would joke as a young married couple, we'd do something just the tiniest bit deviant from how we'd been raised, maybe wearing pants to church and we'd be like, oh, we're quitting the vision. So yeah.

1 (24m 17s):
So the vision all along has been you will work and provide, you will stay home and homeschool the kids. Right. And you guys have to make a decision that you are not gonna do that anymore. When did that happen and what was the reasoning?

27 (24m 32s):
For me it was just so I very much deconstruct it. I'm not even religious at all at this point. I respect religious beliefs. Wow. But for me, I'm I, I don't use that as the foundation for my life. So I had just lived for so long under the assumption that homeschooling is the way it has to be done. I started to look at other options and it just turns out that we live right down the street from an excellent, excellent school. So it just made me think, well here's a resource that we could use. And the more I learned about it and about the kids in our neighborhood that go there, the more it just seemed like a great option.

26 (25m 6s):
Yeah. So we ended up sending our daughter Amy to first grade, just Amy, while I kept Ezra our oldest home for third grade. And then Oliver was kind of doing some pre-K stuff. And I think it's important to remember at this point in time, my identity was a homeschool mom. I very much felt like, you know, how are we gonna break the news to our families? Who am I if I have failed at homeschooling? Because this has been my whole life calling. So I sort of begged Darren. Okay, I'll, I'll let Amy go as long as I can. Homeschool Ezra this year, well, fast forward, it went phenomenally well for Amy. We fell in love with the community.

26 (25m 48s):
We began to see everything we had missed out on and just how much of a hub of the community, the elementary school even was, you know, getting to know our neighbors in ways we never had before. And by the next summer I was still like, okay, I'll homeschool Ezra cuz he was, he was enjoying and thriving in homeschool. I, but I just had this nagging sense of, don don't want him to miss this. This is so good and going so well. And I don't want him to miss it. And I mean, even as I say that, I want to be clear that I have nothing against homeschooling. I think homeschooling can be done very well.

26 (26m 28s):
I loved my time homeschooling my kids and I even, there's a part of me that hopes I will again someday, but the reason this was a momentous decision was because it was a shift from homeschooling is the only way, this is your identity. This is what you must do to, wow. We can embrace some other options. And they're not nearly as scary as we've been told they are.

1 (26m 52s):
You're no longer an evangelical Christian. Correct. What about you

26 (26m 55s):
Christian? I am. You

1 (26m 56s):
Are

26 (26m 57s):
I? I do still consider myself a Christian. Evangelical is up for debate. Yeah.

1 (27m 14s):
Today's episode was produced by Victoria Chamberlin, who went into labor with her second child while making it CI Petros picked it up from there. It was edited by Amina Elsa, in fact, checked by Laura Bullard. It was engineered by Patrick Boyd and Michael Rayfield. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.