0 (0s):
It's been one year of full scale war in Ukraine. It's been costly and messy and bloody. But there's another front on this war, and it too has been costly. It's been messy, but not at all bloody. It's the fight to seize Russian yachts.

2 (21s):
Seizing Russian super yachts is really kind of the most tangible symbol that we have for what is a much larger issue, which is that western governments have sanctioned and frozen hundreds of billions of dollars worth of Russian assets and response to the war in Ukraine

0 (42s):
Coming up on today explained you're gonna seize a bigger boat.

2 (47s):
The super yachts are really the things that have captured everyone's imagination because they're such a opulent, outrageous example of Russian wealth

1 (1m 7s):
Explained.

0 (1m 11s):
Stephanie Baker at Bloomberg knows this boat business back and forth. So to help us understand their importance to this one year old war in Ukraine, we asked her to tell us about just one.

2 (1m 21s):
One boat in particular that the US went after is called Ameda. It is a super yacht worth about 325 million. It's enormous. 348 feet long, six decks. It has two baby grand pianos, one of which is hand painted, a large mosaic tiled pool.

0 (1m 51s):
I'm sorry. All, all of those things sound fancy, but I still don't hear 325 million. How does a boat cost $325 million? Well,

2 (2m 0s):
If you think about it, enables destroyer is about 500 feet long. I mean, these are huge vessels and they're decked out with incredibly luxurious finishings as well. Silk carpets, incredibly rare fabrics for furnishings. They're massive vessels that require a huge amount of steel to construct. They have very sophisticated engines and air con systems. So these are high-tech vessels that take years to build.

0 (2m 42s):
And, and who is this vessel built for?

2 (2m 44s):
The US government? Alleges Ameda is owned by a sanctioned Russian oligarch named Suleman Karimov, who the US sanctioned in 2018. Now he denies that he's the owner. Another little known tycoon named Edward Ku came forward saying he was the actual real owner on paper. The US government countered saying that's not correct. He's actually just a straw owner. He's just holding it on behalf of Karimov who was sanctioned and was severely restricted in his movements and ability to move money around the world.

0 (3m 29s):
So I guess irrespective of who owns this vessel, what happens to it when the war begins last year?

2 (3m 35s):
Okay, so when the war began last year, Ameda was in the Caribbean And it began a very long voyage sailing through the Panama Canal to the Pacific Island of Fiji where it was supposed to refuel and swap out crew. Now, the US government was tracking it and had obtained evidence that Karimov had engaged in sanctions violation. So the US government decided that he had evaded sanctions and that gave them the grounds to seize the vessel, even as far away as Fiji.

2 (4m 16s):
So it sent FBI agents and the US Marshall Service to Fiji to seize the vessel. At that point, the owner on paper, Mr. Kuk objected and tried to stop the seizure in the courts in Fiji. Now there was a several week long battle in Fiji courts. The US government won the US Marshall Service, hired a company which in turn hired a crew to sail it to US waters, and they took it to the port of San Diego where it has been sitting ever since June awaiting the process that the Justice Department is trying to go through to actually sell it.

3 (4m 58s):
Today's action should make clear that there is no hiding place for the assets of individuals who violate US laws, and there is no hiding place for the assets of criminals who enable the Russian regime.

0 (5m 16s):
Hmm. Why does the US have jurisdiction here? Why do they get to sort of litigate this whole case?

2 (5m 21s):
Right. That's the really interesting thing about US sanctions. It really gets at the heart of what's happening now, which is the long arm of the US Justice Department. When the US Treasury imposes sanctions on a Russian oligarch or, or anyone for that matter, that basically bars them from using the US dollar.

0 (5m 41s):
Oh.

2 (5m 42s):
So anything that touches the US financial system, any US dollar transactions tend to go through US correspondent banks. And that gives the US government jurisdiction because the dollar is so dominant, it's used for sort of 60% of transactions, savings, what have you around the world that gives them this enormous reach to go after assets far and wide if they have touched the US dollar. And it's really hard to own a super yacht and not transact in US dollars.

0 (6m 16s):
So the US is basically policing use of US dollars in order to support Ukraine in this war effort.

2 (6m 22s):
Basically,

3 (6m 23s):
We will leave no stone unturned in our efforts to investigate arrest and prosecute those whose criminal acts enable the Russian government to continue this unjust war.

0 (6m 37s):
And so it seems kinda like a win-win here. The US gets to collect a bunch of fancy boats and help Ukraine. What's the drawback?

2 (6m 43s):
Right. So the goal of doing this as one Biden administration official told me was to show to the Russian people that they'd been getting ripped off by the government for years. It was to disrupt the Russian elite. Whether or not that message is getting through to ordinary Russians given Putin's control of the media is another question. But it turns out that seizing and freezing a super yacht is a lot more complicated than you might think. Even that has surprised administration officials.

4 (7m 13s):
But you know what the craziest thing is when we seize one, we have to pay for upkeep. That right? Yeah.

2 (7m 19s):
The National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, was caught on a live mic last year expressing his own surprise.

4 (7m 26s):
So like some people are basically being paid to maintain Russian super states. That's awesome. Unbelievable.

2 (7m 36s):
And it's complicated because it's not like, you know, seizing or freezing a bank account or a mansion. You can't just, you know, lock up a super yacht, turn off the lights and wait until the war ends. You know, these are vessels that sit in salt water and humidity. It's very hostile environment. They degrade very quickly without maintenance. The air conditioning needs to be on to prevent rust from appearing. They need staff on board for insurance reasons and to make sure that the yacht is safe in port. And the US government has a duty to maintain the yacht so that it doesn't lose value.

2 (8m 16s):
And they have an interest in doing that because their goal eventually is to sell the yacht for as much as they can get for it. So that means upkeep and that can cost an enormous amount of money.

0 (8m 28s):
How much does that cost just for this one, 300 something million dollar yacht, the ameda? Do we have any idea? So

2 (8m 35s):
I spent a lot of time trying to come up with a figure that was accurate, and I talked to a lot of people, including people who were familiar with this very vessel. And the number I came up with was roughly 10 million a year.

0 (8m 52s):
Oh,

2 (8m 52s):
No way. I mean, of course it would be more expensive if you are sailing it around the world and you've got, you know, the cost of fuel, but you need to keep running the engine. You need to keep running the systems to make sure that it doesn't degrade in value. The insurance costs alone are enormous. So it's costly endeavor.

0 (9m 10s):
It's just funny to think about, you know, like the current fight over the debt ceiling in Congress, where exactly is a financing operation for a, you know, Russian oligarch, super yacht getting rubber stamped? And how many of these things are getting rubber stamped? Do we have any idea?

2 (9m 27s):
There was an allocation as part of a spending review last year that gave them some funding for this. The US government, the Justice Department, needs to go through a complicated legal process called forfeiture, which means going to a judge and proving that the assets are proceeds of a crime. Hmm. And in this case, the crime would be sanctions of evasion. Now, we're not the sev, we don't just seize assets without due process. And the most comparable analogy is seizing the assets of a drug. Lord, they go through a process called forfeiture to get the mansion of a drug Lord, and sell that. And those funds go into an account.

2 (10m 9s):
Now, Congress has just passed legislation enabling the Justice Department to divert those funds to go to help Ukraine. Hmm. Previously those funds would just go into a Justice Department account that would be used for other types of maintaining other forfeited assets. And in the cases in the US where they've gone after Russian linked super yachts, they've only gone after the yachts where they could prove that a crime had been committed and sanctions had been violated. And that means going after Russian oligarchs who were sanctioned four years ago because they were able to build up a body of evidence that showed that they were using the US dollar system in violation of US sanctions.

0 (10m 57s):
So where does this end exactly? I mean, do we for sure know that these boats will be able to be sold to benefit Ukraine and do we for sure know that the United States government will continue to shell out tens of millions of dollars to maintain them until that point?

2 (11m 15s):
I think in the case of the us, the super yachts that they've gone after and seized, they have a pretty solid case with a body of evidence that should be able to back up any forfeiture claim that they pursue. I think in the case of Western European governments is gonna be much more difficult. Italy, for instance, has frozen a handful of super yachts, including one link to Putin. It is paying the cost of maintaining them. And you know, they told me that the way this ends is that one day sanctions get lifted and if the oligarchs want their boats back, they have to pay back those maintenance costs.

2 (11m 58s):
Now that seems like a pretty unlikely scenario. So, you know, it looks at the current situation and the current environment that sanctions are gonna be on in place for many, many years. So a lot of these boats are in legal limbo.

0 (12m 20s):
Stephanie Baker reader reporting on seizing Russian yachts@bloomberg.com. But it's not just the Russians. The rest of the boats are on the horizon at today. Explain.

5 (12m 37s):
I am Ellie Honing host of Up Against the Mob, the Springfield crew. I was a federal prosecutor in Manhattan where I took down over 100 mobsters. And out of all my cases, nothing was as wild as the murder of Big Al Bruno. Big Al ran the mob in Springfield, Massachusetts. His murder would become our best shot at taking down the Springfield mob once and for all. But it wasn't going to be easy up against the mob, the Springfield crew from Cafe and the Vox Media podcast network following your listening app to hear the first episode on March 1st.

6 (13m 18s):
But listen, make yourself feel at home. You need anything, champagne, caviar. My yacht is yo yacht.

1 (13m 26s):
This is your

6 (13m 27s):
Yacht. That's right. I'm the owner, the captain El Capita,

0 (13m 32s):
Evan Osnos, staff writer at the New Yorker. We've been talking about how Russian oligarchs love their super yachts. But according to reporting you did last year, it's not just the Russians, right?

7 (13m 43s):
No, not at all. It's sort of everybody in a certain income bracket. They've become in effect, the final frontier of wealth. I think they're the thing that if you get rich enough these days, eventually you begin to be tempted by a yacht. And they've sort of gone across all of these different communities and, and as they have become more popular, they've also just become bigger. I mean, I think there's an inevitable arms race that sets in among neighbors of a certain kind, sociologically speaking, if not geographically, that once your peer or your competitor gets a boat of a certain size, then you feel a sudden overwhelming urge to get a bigger boat.

8 (14m 26s):
You better need a bigger boat.

0 (14m 29s):
I think maybe for a lot of people who can still recall the early days of Covid, they might remember this tweet or Instagram that David Geffen, the billionaire posted being like, you know, everyone stay safe. I'm out here on my boat and he just got roasted. Is this sort of ultra rich competition that's going on, something that happened because of Covid, people wanted to retreat to boats or does this predate covid?

7 (14m 59s):
There was a covid effect in the sense that all of a sudden, one of the places you could go, if you had the means to do it, was your boat. And then you could take your boat out into the Caribbean or the Mediterranean and you'd be safe. And I think there was this sudden surge in the market and, and you saw it actually reflected in the sales data that that all of a sudden there were waiting lists to get super yachts made. Hmm. These are, you know, waiting lists for people who are not accustomed to being on waiting lists. And so there was also this, this tendency to want to pay extra in order to get it sooner.

7 (15m 43s):
I think there was a kind of merger of the consumer instinct and then also something that was slightly more abstract, a kind of sudden awareness of mortality. I mean, some yacht owners described to me this feeling that the Covid pandemic, as it did for a lot of other folks too, made people say, well, I guess my time is short. And if you're somebody who is waiting to buy a super yacht, that means you're willing to throw in an extra 15 million to get his boat sooner. As he said, if that'll save me three years of waiting, I think, I think a year of my life is worth about 5 million. So I'll pay it. At a certain point you encounter what a Silicon Valley c e o described to me as more or less the limits of what you can spend.

7 (16m 31s):
He said that if you're buying a house on land, he said you're not gonna spend 250 million on a house because it looks weird and it sends awful messages to the public and to your staff, your employees. And he said, but actually a boat, you can more or less buy a boat for 250 million. And the public generally doesn't know anything about that.

9 (16m 58s):
This is the Azam, the 500 million Euro 180 meter long boat is probably the largest privately owned yacht and belongs to the Amir of Abu Dhabi. Few play in the mega yacht owner league.

7 (17m 11s):
He described it actually as the best way to, in his words, absorb excess capital.

0 (17m 16s):
Huh?

7 (17m 18s):
There was a time when it was mostly oil money from Saudi Arabia and the Gulf. And then there was this big surge of interest in the nineties after the collapse of the Soviet Union from Russian and Eastern European oligarchs, because there was all of a sudden all of this money flooding through their economy and they began to compete for visible demonstrations of their own fortunes. And then of course we had the rise of Silicon Valley, and that became one of the domains in which people in Silicon Valley, partly because it was an intersection of luxury and engineering, there was this real obsession with building the fastest or the most luxurious yachts at the moment.

7 (17m 59s):
I mean, it's probably not a huge surprise, but Jeff Bezos, founder of Amazon is in the position of building. He's believed to have probably the world's biggest sailboat.

10 (18m 9s):
So the boat being built for Bezos is a 127 meter, or 416 foot sailing yacht.

7 (18m 16s):
It was a, a controversy cuz he was building it in the Netherlands and it was gonna have to be brought out through Rotterdam. And in order to get it through, they were gonna have to dismantle a bridge that had survived Nazi bombing.

11 (18m 31s):
Rotterdam Council said it would never be dismantled again. But now they've told the people, there's no other way for the multi-billionaire super yacht to make it from this shipbuilder's yard and a blast heram to the open seas.

7 (18m 46s):
And people in Rotterdam were sort of incensed by this.

12 (18m 49s):
The more monies you have, the more power you get, even though it goes against principles of the city.

7 (18m 55s):
And eventually they found a way of getting his boat through with the masks down. And so it sort of diffused the crisis. But for a moment it was this fairly acute demonstration of the collision of these different values.

0 (19m 15s):
And is that how you have the most impressive boat? Is it just bigger and bigger? Or is it also what's on board?

7 (19m 23s):
Well, part of it are the somewhat esoteric distinctions that of course mean very little to the general public, but mean a tremendous amount to the people who are spending their money on these things. So for instance, a Dutch boat is considered more prestigious than an Italian boat. Huh. It'll hold its value over time. You know, if you want to have a fully custom yacht that's considered better than a quote unquote series yacht, which I guess we would think of as a kind of off the shelf yacht. And if you really wanna make fun of somebody or disparage their, their yacht, well then you just say it looks like a wedding cake that's really dogging on somebody. You know, in the end though, I think the truth is, Sean, that even though you can put on a lot of these other accessories, all of people come up with all kinds of ways of spending on helicopter pads or even a second boat to follow your main boat, which you carry all the accessories on.

7 (20m 16s):
But actually in the end, it comes down to what's known in the industry as l o a, which stands for length overall. Oh, that's the coin of the realm.

0 (20m 25s):
So it's literally a bunch of rich guys measuring how long their boats

7 (20m 30s):
Are. That's one way to put it. Actually, one owner said to me, there is an element, let's be honest here, of phallic sizing. Hmm. I think though there's, there's another element of this, which is that the length of the boat becomes this critical factor in the overall luxury of the thing for a very specific reason. And it's a fact of history, which is that pleasure boats of this kind are allowed by law to carry no more than 12 passengers. This is a rule that was set by the International Convention for the Safety of Life at sea. This was something that was imposed after the sinking of the Titanic actually.

7 (21m 11s):
Hmm. And those limits on the number of passengers, the number of people who can stay overnight doesn't apply to crew. And so you can have, as one yacht broker put it to me, he said, you can have anywhere between 12 and 50 crew members looking after those 12 guests. And the result of that is this ratio of attention, of luxury, of service that is kind of beyond anything you would ever find beyond the 19th century. But it happens every day out on these yachts.

0 (21m 43s):
Has the West's attempts to confiscate the super yachts of, of Russian oligarchs chilled the market at

7 (21m 51s):
All? No, it, it hasn't really. I mean, there is some concern among yachters and, and buyers that the visibility and the attention on them is going to be uncomfortable. I mean, as, as one of them said not too long ago to a film crew, he said if the world knew what it's like actually on some of these super yachts, they would revive the guillotine. I think that there is now, as a result of the war in Ukraine and because of the greater public attention around these yachts, you're beginning to see more of these yachts spending more time at sea and less time in view. So it's actually getting a little harder to find them sometimes.

0 (22m 32s):
But it sounds like even if we can't see them, we should at least know that they're

7 (22m 35s):
Out there. They are out there, they're always out there, and they're kind of prowling around. One of the things that happened actually after the invasion of Ukraine was that some of the sanctioned Russian oligarchs, in order to avoid having their yachts seized, they just flipped off the transponder system. The thing that makes these boats visible on the high seas and just sent them out kind of wandering the oceans, these kind of strange ghost ships.

0 (23m 8s):
Is that allowed? Are you allowed to just flip off your transponder?

7 (23m 12s):
No, the rules are that you're supposed to always have that thing on. But you know, I guess what happens on the high seas sort of stays on the high seas. It's a bit of a, a lawless terrain out there.

0 (23m 27s):
Evan Osnos, his peace on the yachts, the super yachts, the giga yachts is titled The Haves and the Have Yachts. Find it@newyorker.com. Our program was produced by Miles Brian. He got some pointers from Jonathan Geier at Vox. We were edited by Matthew Collette, fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Patrick Boyd, with help from Paul Robert Moundy. I'm Sean Ramis firm. This is today Explained.