0 (1s):
Two weeks to 18 year olds committing acts of mass murder in the United States of America. 18 year olds murdering black people at a grocery store, murdering children at an elementary school in Buffalo. We know the shooter was radicalized by online extremism. The other one we don't know yet, he was definitely posting online about what he was going to do at this school before he went and did exactly what he said he would in Ubaldi Texas. The internet is treacherous enough for adults, but the teens, we wanted to figure out how parents can stop their kids from getting radicalized online.

0 (41s):
And we found a mom who tried.

1 (43s):
And the first time I heard like an eight year old scream, the N word, it was like, okay, here's the conversation we need to have,

0 (50s):
How to have a little more faith. Your kids aren't being radicalized online. Coming up on today, explained support for the show. Today comes from, are you sleeping? A podcast from matches, from inbox creative. They do sales for us over here at Vox. In the latest episode of the show, your host meets Cameron Schmid. He shares the story of the two years. He spent living in his car while struggling to stay in school. And of course, struggling to get any sleep you can listen to. Are you sleeping wherever you listen to your podcasts? Are you sleeping from mattress firm and the good people at Vox creative?

0 (1m 35s):
It's an, I explained I'm Sean Robinson room. I don't have any kids, but I know a lot of you do. And when I'm around my friends or family members who have kids with smartphones, I always ask. So like, what boundaries are you setting there? Sometimes I'm really impressed by the answer. Sometimes I'm petrified because some parents I've spoken to aren't doing much at all. They're placing a whole lot of faith in their kids to do the right thing.

1 (1m 59s):
I didn't think much about kids like buying, falling into any kind of dangerous ideology, because I knew how I had raised my children.

0 (2m 7s):
This is Joanna Schroeder. She's not a friend of mine or a family member, but she is a mom of three kids. Who's thought a lot more about this than most parents.

1 (2m 16s):
We had very consciously brought them up to believe in equality and justice and what I didn't factor into that was the effect of social media. And as I grew to understand how the algorithms work, I got more and more concerned about what my kids might see online. I think if you're consuming any type of media with your children, and you're not taking the opportunity to talk about anything from a critical lens, you're missing out.

0 (2m 43s):
Joanne has also a writer. She focuses on gender and parenting issues

1 (2m 48s):
When they got older and started using social media or playing more advanced games and being able to Google and watch YouTube videos. I knew that with what exposure would be like, I am a woman writing online about controversial topics, and I've seen everything you can see and heard everything you can hear. And so we did have sort of preemptive conversations, but what I didn't expect was the sneaky ways in which memes and jokes, quote, unquote, jokes can sneak in to our consciousness and affect our ideology.

1 (3m 29s):
That's what I didn't really expect. And this concern became really amplified. When I looked over the shoulder of one of my kids who was probably around 13 or 14 at the time, as he scrolled his Instagram explore page. And I saw a meme fly by that had Hitler and he was basically liking or hearting, everything that passed. And I had him slow down. I was like, what, what is that? And it was a very traditional kind of meme format, meaning that they use the same image and the same type face with different messages on it of Hitler sitting in kind of an amphitheater with people on many sides.

1 (4m 16s):
And normally that image is used to kind of create a fantasy where somebody could kill Hitler and have ended the war and saved so many millions of lives. In this case, when I read the content on the meme, it was somebody tipping off Hitler so that he could have one,

0 (4m 36s):
He saw this meme, he didn't read it. He liked it. You read it. You didn't like it. What did you do next?

1 (4m 44s):
Yeah. And when I say he liked it, I just made, he clicked the heart.

0 (4m 47s):
He didn't register any sort of feelings about it. He just liked it with his hand,

1 (4m 51s):
Just to do, he couldn't have read it because it flew by so fast. I mean, if you watched the way a 13 year old scrolls there for you page or their explore page, it's like, scroll, click, scroll, scroll, click. And they like all of them, they look at everything. It's a very strange phenomenon. And so when I stopped him, I was like, what do you think this sets? And so I said, okay, let's read this. I want you to know what's happening. So this guy back here is saying, Hey, they're going to do this attack at this time against the Nazis. And so that means that whoever created this thinks it's funny to imply that it would have been good or what would have happened had Hitler not been defeated.

1 (5m 36s):
And he was a gas. He had no idea. Even if, once he read it, it was just a little too subtle for someone their age to really understand what was happening. Especially since they'd seen that meme format using that historical photo before it was easy to assume it would have the same sort of message or ethics behind it. Then I said, can I look through your explore page? And we just looked through it together. And I think the first thing that was jarring to me was probably actually the sort of anti-woman content in it.

1 (6m 18s):
And the fact that I knew that he didn't recognize these, what we would say is, are dog whistles, they're anti-feminist or just overall anti-woman dog whistles. And at that point I didn't see any sort of racist content. And remember this isn't what my child shared. And it wasn't what my child had liked or hearted. It was just what Instagram wanted him to see next.

0 (6m 46s):
Did you clock the accounts that were serving up this kind of stuff? What were the accounts?

1 (6m 52s):
They're all just meme accounts. It's not like it was Stormfront or something very easily identifiable as some kind of Nazi thing. It's just meme accounts that are supposed to be funny. And I want to make clear that I think this is probably in every teenage boys explore page on Instagram, especially if he plays video games because their interest in video games is probably one of the key identifiers that gets them targeted for this content.

0 (7m 24s):
Why do you think that is?

1 (7m 26s):
I think because the people who are quote unquote recruiting or trying to influence our kids know that the people that are searching Minecraft, roadblocks, that those are teenagers and that those are teenagers who may be more easy to influence because they're doing things online by themselves and their parents think they're watching the very innocuous and delightful Dan TDM on YouTube.

3 (7m 56s):
I've been playing video games ever since I was young. And gaming is a huge part of my life, who I am as a person and my career. And I want to try sharing that passion with my son

1 (8m 5s):
And their parents. Don't realize that somebody out there knows they're not being supervised.

4 (8m 15s):
The woke leftist activists who talk about defunding the police out of one side of their mouth while demanding that they disarm the public on the other side.

1 (8m 25s):
And those that maybe they don't do a hundred extracurriculars at school,

5 (8m 30s):
Modern society treats men like trash. I posted a meme the other day. And in that meme, it was a Titanic. And when that Titanic sank, who did they take? Did they take everyone equally? Did they take the youngest? No, it was women and children and men stayed behind to die. Yeah. So great. Being a man, isn't it?

1 (8m 50s):
This isn't even taking into account. The fact that every child was online, 24 7 during lockdown, this happened to be for lockdown. I think it's only been amplified since then, but I think they know pain. This is a population that is very vulnerable and easy to influence

6 (9m 9s):
Replacement. Migration is real. It's happening in front of your face. They don't do this because they love and care for old white people or our birth rates. They do it because they hate us and want us replaced.

0 (9m 24s):
So in that moment where you discover this sort of creeping insidious nature of say deeply racist and white supremacist means, or even misogynistic ones that were popping up randomly in your son's feet. And he was sort of unwittingly liking them. Did you sort of have a policy overhaul in your household about what your kids could do? Or how did you approach it?

1 (9m 49s):
We did not. And some people might think that's wrong. The first thing I did was say, boys, come here. We need to talk about this. And they thought they were in trouble. They, I said, you're not in trouble at all, but this is something you need to know. And I went through and I said, so listen, if you don't fully understand it, don't heart. It don't like it. Read it. If you don't get it, ask me because this is racist. And this is like, this is pro Nazi stuff. And if someone sees that you like this, they're going to think that you like Nazis. And it's like, their eyes just got big. And I explained to the algorithm to them.

1 (10m 29s):
I mean, even if you just stay on one meme for a really long time, or if you share it privately, Instagram says, this is what this guy likes and sends you more. So for them, it was a real education. And I said, also anybody that follows, you can see what you've liked because it, it tells them when it comes up in their explore page. And that's just not a mistake that you want to have happen. And they heard that. And basically my feeling was, if I said, all right, Instagram's out. First of all, I don't know that they're really gonna not look at Instagram. I know a lot of kids who were not allowed to have Instagram and had it in some kind of hidden folder that their moms didn't know how to get to.

1 (11m 13s):
And a lot of times those were the kids who were posting really troubling things. And so I felt like I'd rather be able to look at it myself. When my kids, before they were 13, I also had their Instagrams mirrored on my phone, which was really important for their direct messages, because I could go in every single day and see who's DM-ing them. Even if it's in their hidden folders and delete it, or if, even with school drama, if I saw my kid being mean to somebody or something, I could be like, Hey, Hey, Hey, come here. I feel like this would hurt this person's feelings. What you wrote right there.

0 (11m 52s):
Just hearing how much work you're putting into this. The first thing that occurs to me is that so many parents probably just can't find the time. And if they're choosing the path of least resistance, they're probably choosing to just say, Hey, be careful on Instagram, but have a good time. Cause I know how much you want to be on that platform,

1 (12m 12s):
But it doesn't take a lot of time. It just takes the ability to acknowledge it's a problem and have the conversation without saying, oh, I think you're turning into a racist. Oh, I think you're becoming anti-Semitic or, oh, I think you're dumb that you fell for this or any of these awful things that are very tempting to say, when we see something racist, we get mad and we should get mad. And so that's the challenge for parents. That's the actual work isn't going. He's just a kid. These are adults trying to trick kids and then approaching it with compassion and recognizing that child's goodness inherent goodness, in order to draw them into understanding and being compassionate toward other people,

0 (13m 8s):
Joanna Schroeder, didn't just have a talk with her kids. She wrote a Twitter thread that turned into an op-ed that turned into a whole guide for parents everywhere. We'll talk about that in a moment on today, explained Support for the program today comes from, are you sleeping? Which is again, a podcast from mattress firm and Vox creative. They handle sales in our podcast realm here at Vox. And they're also making shows like this one, you know, are you sleeping?

0 (13m 51s):
Handles lots of sleep stories. Some of them funny, some of them sort of sad, like Cameron's Cameron's story, which you'll hear in a new-ish episode is about how he slept for two years in his car and struggled to get any sleep while parked in public parking lots and while struggling to stay in school. The episode delves into sleep equity in the United States, just like every other equity issue in the United States. We have sleep equity issues. I'm not just talking about how many pillows you got. You can listen to. Are you sleeping and subscribe wherever you listen to your podcasts? Are you sleeping from Vox, creative and mattress firm? Listen, wherever you listen, we're back it's today.

0 (14m 38s):
Explain Joanna Schroeder is a mom who writes about gender and parenting and wants parents to pay closer attention to what their kids are doing online. We spoke after the Buffalo shooting up before the Texas shooting, which is more of an indictment of this country's gun policies and anything else. Anyhow, I asked her what she made of the Buffalo shooting, considering how much she's thought about what kids are exposed to online.

1 (15m 3s):
I'll be totally candid and tell you that before I knew what motivated him. I knew what motivated him. You don't have to hear that this many black people were shot by a white person to know that this was about race. This was not a coincidence before I knew that he drove all those miles to get there. I knew it was a racist massacre. When I saw a picture of the kid, I said he was radicalized online. I left room to be wrong, but I assumed right away that this was a kid who probably started hearing things. When he was involved with video games, probably started laughing at bigoted memes and then just traveled down a worm hole into, you know, the equivalent of eight Chan and the dark web and being totally propagandized to and fed a non-stop stream of disinformation.

1 (15m 57s):
I was willing to leave room to be surprised maybe his parents were hood wearing clans people maybe, but I didn't think that that was likely, I had a feeling that this was probably a pretty typical kid from a pretty typical community who did a very dangerous thing.

0 (16m 17s):
In this particular case with the shooter in Buffalo video games definitely played some role in radicalization, in streaming. The thing live on Twitch. We've been talking about this video game influence on kids and in mass shootings forever.

8 (16m 30s):
One of the most vicious games is called mortal combat. The objective is to finish off your opponent violently. Another method is decapitation.

0 (16m 45s):
Does this just further make the point that there is some tangible connection here.

1 (16m 51s):
Video games are not the problem. The unsupervised nature of how kids use them might be part of the problem. And it is hard to separate video games from this because we've seen a few stills and hopefully none of us have had to watch the actual footage. And it looks like a first person shooter and you're right. He streamed on Twitch as if he were streaming a game of Minecraft.

10 (17m 15s):
And the statement it says, Twitch has a zero tolerance policy against violence and works swiftly to respond. It says we are taking all appropriate action, including monitoring for any accounts. Rebroadcasting this content, but in light of what happened in Buffalo, it seems like this response is no longer enough.

0 (17m 35s):
How are parents supposed to know when it's tipping over when it's not just their kid looking at a meme that's problematic and it's maybe our kid is trying to find a gun. Like, is it just this constant babysitting, which most parents don't have the time for? When, when do parents step in and say, we need to get you help.

1 (17m 54s):
You have to prepare them early. If your kid's already 18 and you haven't prepared them, you have to prepare them now to see racist media and to interpret it and to debunk it. And the most important thing to me is almost no parent listening to this right now. No grandparent, no teacher is going to have a child that kills people, but almost all of us could have a child that makes a racist joke that makes another, could feel unsafe, knowingly or unknowingly. Almost any of us on here could have a child that shares a racist meme that hurts the feelings of somebody else. Or if you have to look at it this way, gets them in trouble in school, that there are consequences for your teen.

1 (18m 37s):
But even more importantly, there are consequences to the kids of color, the Jewish kids, the queer kids, the trans kids around them who are hurt by their casual, harmful language.

0 (18m 49s):
You wrote a Twitter thread that turned into an op-ed column that turned into a guide that you co-wrote called confronting conspiracy theories and organized bigotry at home, a guide for parents and caregivers. What's in it.

1 (19m 2s):
The first thing we do is talk about the basic history of like why this is happening and why kids are so easily influenced. And then we also talk about some warning signs that come up when your kid is being influenced at any sort of stage. We have the beginning stages. Like my kids were in where they didn't even know what they were saying all the way to signs that they're actually joining with groups and may do dangerous things. And then some very specific tools and talking points for the kids. Most parents don't know how to talk about racism, even in general, let alone how to talk to a kid and engage them because ultimately we want our kids to feel like they can come to us and talk to us and not feel shamed or blame.

1 (19m 50s):
Cause that shame and blame is what pushes them to these groups. The thing that Neo Nazi groups and modern white nationalist groups want is for kids that feel disenfranchised to have a family in their organization. And whether it's skinheads recruiting in a back alley and the 1980s or today on discord or wherever else

11 (20m 19s):
From there, the shooter moved to discord at shouting platform popular with young gamers. He wrote a racist manifesto and kept an online diary, detailing the planning and execution of a racially motivated attack.

1 (20m 33s):
It's the same kind of thing. The more disillusioned they become with their parents, the more likely they are to believe what they hear in these groups. And the more likely they are to become very loyal to them.

0 (20m 43s):
You make it sound kind of easy Joanna. And it just feels like it's of the hardest things, because teenagers are incredibly hard to approach sometimes whether or not they're in the process of planning, a mass shooting, they balk at parents getting more involved in their lives. And you're talking about not only getting more involved, but really engaging them on some complicated ideologies and some, some complicated phenomena that we haven't really come to terms with. What do you tell parents who say, yeah, I tried that and now my kid just never talks to me or my kids hiding their phone or my kid does everything elsewhere with his friends and then comes home and you know, it was, it was just a wall.

1 (21m 25s):
Yeah. I mean, there's two kinds of messages. First, if you have little kids understand that by the time they're 12. And especially by the time they're 14, they're not going to want to talk to you about it. So you start now and you include them in media analysis, whether it's some messaging in the little mermaid that makes you uncomfortable. When they're six,

12 (21m 46s):
If I become human, I'll never be with my father sisters again.

13 (21m 51s):
That's right. But you'll have your man life's full of tough choices

1 (22m 4s):
Or watching friends and seeing some low key homophobic or racist stuff. And there are 12

14 (22m 10s):
Question. You're not dating anybody. Are you? Because I'm at somebody who would be perfect for you. He is cute. He's funny.

15 (22m 18s):
He's a, he,

14 (22m 21s):
Oh God, I just, Shelly. Okay. I'm just going to go flush myself down the toilet. Now

1 (22m 32s):
You start then. But if your kid is a teenager now, yeah, I understand. It's terrifying. Try and be engaging. Instead of, I know you're doing this bad thing, there are levels at which you should involve a therapist who specializes in children and adolescents and have family therapy. It can really help because a therapist can help take some of that. Mom's just trying to control me, push back out of the conversation, be objective. But also, yeah, if you think your kid's trying to acquire a gun, he got to call the cops and that sucks. But hopefully everything else that you do before that will prevent them from getting to that point.

1 (23m 23s):
This is a lot for parents. That's why it's important that this whole process becomes institutionalized and that PTA's are talking about it in schools are talking about it and that you're talking to your principals and PTA's and educators about it. Sports groups, churches, temples, every organization that has any influence over kids should understand the dynamics at play so that we could do this systematically. And not just me over here in my little house with my, my two teenage children or you over there wherever you live with your teenage children,

0 (24m 3s):
Joanna Schroeder, she put out that guide on how to talk to your teams about the worst corners of the internet through the Western state center. Based in Portland, Oregon, it's a nonprofit nonpartisan organization. That's trying to combat bigotry online and elsewhere. You can find the guide@westernstatescenter.org slash caregivers. Our show today was produced by Abishai artsy. It's his first. He had help from Matthew collect Laura Bullard, Paul mousey, and me I'm Sean Ramez from no podcast Monday we're off for Memorial day. We'll still be on the radio though, because we're tricky like that at today's explained Support for the program today has come from, are you sleeping?

0 (25m 2s):
The podcast from the sleep experts at mattress firm produced by Vox creative sleep can be a challenge even with all the comforts of home. But of course there are people out there who are sleeping in the streets, in their cars. And the latest episode of are you sleeping is digging into some of the sleep equity issues in this country. Listen to, are you sleeping wherever you get your podcasts and you can even hit the subscribe button or the follow button or whatever the button is that says, you know, give me more of this. Are you sleeping?