2 (5s):
It's Monday April 6th, 2020 and a tiger at the Bronx Zoo has the Rona I'm Sean Rama's firm. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained. The tiger's name is Nadia. She's a four-year-old Malayan tiger and she's got a dry cough. She evidently got it from a Bronx Zoo employee. The good news is she's expected to recover soon. I'm in bad news. The country's Surgeon General Jerome Adams said the nation should prepare for the hardest and saddest week of most Americans lives. He said it's about to feel a lot like Pearl Harbor or 9/11. He called on all Americans to do their part to flatten the curve New York's Governor.

2 (50s):
Andrew Cuomo says, they might be flattening the curve there. The state's daily death toll has dropped slightly since a Friday Peak with 630 lives lost the governor. Pointed out that the drop could be a blip China did New York a solid this weekend and donated a thousand ventilators that news came just after President Trump said he was unwilling to get New York all the ventilators at requested but the president and his son-in-law did help New York City get some masks the city recently received something like 600,000 n95 masks from the federal government elsewhere Boris Johnson has been hospitalized due to complications from covid-19.

2 (1m 30s):
BBC is reporting he's in intensive care as of publishing. He's still in charge of the government. Meanwhile the almost 94 year old Queen of England gave a rare televised address over the weekend saying we should take comfort that while we may have more still to endure better days will return we will be with our friends again. We will be with our families again. We will meet again. Two giant pandas in Ocean Park Hong Kong met again this morning ying-ying and Lele made it naturally for the first time in 10 years. The chance of pregnancy is apparently better when mating happens. Naturally. Maybe they just needed the humans to stay six feet away.

2 (2m 12s):
You can get closer digitally to today explain though. We're on Twitter at today underscore explained are a traumas firm. You can call us and leave a message to the numbers two. Oh two six eight eight four nine four four, and there's always email today. and vox.com have you guys heard about Quimby? There's a new thing called quality if you're like what Squiddy that's fair its brand new. It's spelt Q UI bi and I'm pretty sure it's pronounced Quimby. It is a brand new streaming service designed for your telephone.

2 (2m 53s):
It's got a range of movie quality shows starring celebrities. You might just love like Chance the Rapper and a Kendrick and Liam Hemsworth. Is that Thor? Is that Thor's brother? It's Thor's brother. And anyway could be episodes are all 10 minutes or less. I love short could be has tons of original shows plus daily essential news from places like the BBC NBC ESPN and more you can download the quippy app now or go to quimbee.com to start your 90 day free trial.

2 (3m 26s):
Everyone wants to know when this ends June August Halloween. No one seems to know it hinges on a vaccine, right but a vaccine is still a ways away some say the pandemic will have peaked and even declined before we get a vaccine in the meantime. We're going to get serious about something called. serological testing And it's okay. If you have no idea what that is because umm error van has been writing about it for Vox.

1 (4m 6s):
Well, a serological tests tests the blood serum and it

2 (4m 9s):
looks for antibodies are

1 (4m 11s):
proteins that are made specifically to Target the virus by our own immune

2 (4m 15s):
systems. So it's like testing for immunity. That's right. And this is happening all over the world right now.

1 (4m 21s):
In other countries. They've been using these kinds of serological

2 (4m 24s):
tests for several months throughout this pandemic, but the Food and Drug Administration just recently approved.

1 (4m 30s):
The first serological tests that can be used for diagnosing covid-19.

2 (4m 33s):
We have a provided regulatory flexibility to other Laboratories and other producers so that they can develop their own tests. The concern though is that looking for antibodies is not a Surefire way

1 (4m 46s):
of identifying the virus. It can take several days

2 (4m 49s):
for an infection to start generating

1 (4m 51s):
antibodies by the immune system. So there's the concern that

2 (4m 54s):
early on in an infection. This test won't pick up the

1 (4m 58s):
virus that said given that we have such a huge testing

2 (5m 2s):
shortage Public Health officials need all the help they can get and this might be a step towards that okay. So these are not the tests for covid-19 that we keep hearing about the tests that we don't have enough of this is a totally different kind of test. That's right. The main tests were using right now to look for active infections looks for the viruses genome. It looks for the RNA molecules that the virus uses to replicate itself and right now that Test shows

1 (5m 30s):
Are not you have an active infection but it doesn't really give you a sense of who has had the virus or who may have fought it off and has had the virus clear their system and that's where serological testing comes in.

2 (5m 44s):
How does it work exactly? So it's a blood test you give your blood then what happens

1 (5m 48s):
there are all the different kinds of techniques, but some of the techniques that are approved are basically you put a few drops of blood with some reagents and diluting solution into a cartridge and essentially it just runs through the cartridge and you see lines pop up showing whether or not you have the antibodies to the virus. It looks kind of like a pregnancy test and if you see a positive line and basically shows that you have antibodies to the virus. Now, it doesn't mean that you fought off the virus. You could still be infected and produce antibodies or you could have the antibodies without the virus but it's a sign that the virus has been present in your

2 (6m 23s):
system and then you'll know whether or not you're

1 (6m 26s):
immune well antibodies are a key step towards generating immunity. And so it's likely that having these antibodies means that you're immune but scientists are still trying to figure that out there looking at basically our experience with past coronavirus is like SARS and MERS. And many of them do believe that there is some immunity that can be gained if you survive a covid-19 infection,

3 (6m 48s):
but I feel really confident that if this virus acts like every other virus that we know once you get infected get better clear the virus that you'll have immunity that will protect you against reinfection,

1 (7m 2s):
but right now they don't know how long that immunity will last and how robust that immunity is. So it's a little early to start, you know, telling people who Have positive antibody tests to go right back to work that said in emergency situations in places like hospitals where there's a shortage of health workers that are urgently needed. You know, some people that were infected that might be needed back in Action. They could get this test and potentially, you know swallow the risks and get back to work and that's one place where a test like this could be very

2 (7m 34s):
useful the question I have here and I think we've seen from listeners as well as co-workers and even my brother Is is it possible that these tests might help us determine whether people had this virus back in January people maybe had covid-19 in December before it was even called covid-19 because we've heard time and again people saying I have had these exact same symptoms around the holidays around the new year and I was flat on my back and had no idea what was going on. I thought it was the flu, but it wasn't the flu. Will this help us?

1 (8m 12s):
Clear any of that up. Absolutely. That's one of the main functions of a test like this it lets you kind of look back in the past or get like a picture of how the virus has been spreading through a population. One of the things that we've noticed about. This virus is that people can spread it before they show symptoms and many of the infected people don't show symptoms at all, and we really don't have a good sense of who those people are how many there are unless we do these kinds of serological tests to see whether their bodies have mounted an immune response to it. This is a key test. That can answer those kinds of questions and help us get a better understanding of the virus and also understand things like symptoms because the symptoms can vary quite a bit from person to person. There's some people get very seriously ill people have been hospitalized people have died from this on there are people who just barely noticed they were infected at all.

1 (8m 59s):
So how do you know you've been sick or not? How do you calculate L? You need a test? That's a question. We can answer more readily if we have this kind of information by looking back at past cases and past infections.

2 (9m 9s):
And you said the FDA has just started. Executing these serology tests. How long is this process going to take?

1 (9m 17s):
Well, there have been doctors across the u.s. Who have been using serology tests sort of off the books for a while now covid-19 on covid-19. Yes, because you know, they were so desperate for tests that they were willing to use these kinds of things to as one element to try to diagnose the infection. If not the soul element the fact that the FDA approved this though for diagnosis shows that there's still an urgent demand and that they think that this test is robust enough even with all the caveats that that is something that we can use to diagnose the infection and there are a bunch of other companies that are also seeking authorization for using these kinds of tests to diagnose the infection then potentially later in the future to start screening the population at large to trace the history of this virus in there are population.

2 (10m 1s):
But we're not the only ones doing this is it is it plausible that another country and other organization makes a ton of progress and then shares that information with the FDA with the United States and you know, there's some sort of Greater Global effort

1 (10m 15s):
while other countries have already been developing and using these tests for some time, you know, Singapore South Korea and in China, they've been deployed quite widely. Germany has broached the idea of actually certifying people who have positive serology tests basically showing Owen that they have the antibodies to the virus potentially as a way to show that these are people that are okay to return to work United Kingdom is also talked about creating a passport for potentially people who have survived the infection, you know, this is not all that different from like an immunization record that you need to show to attend school or to enter certain countries. For instance. Yeah, and it makes sense that you know, you could do something like this for potential covid infections or for people who have the immunity to it if you're doing blanket testing if you're testing Hundreds of thousands of people and doing things like contact tracing or looking at where people have been moving or you know tracing location history from cell phones in tandem with all these other things.

1 (11m 10s):
Then you get a much more robust picture the problem. We've been having in the US has we've been struggling to get any kind of testing done at all at any level of scale. And so we doctors and hospitals have been rationing these tests mainly for people who have been admitted to emergency rooms and I see use or for medical personnel who may have been exposed. We can't really do the The widespread contact tracing unless we have much more testing capabilities.

2 (11m 37s):
Just more great news. Yeah,

1 (11m 39s):
it's been a pretty frustrating experience just to get a handle on the number of cases in the United States that said the u.s. Is also making a lot of progress on treating the virus and working its way toward a cure and they actually had a bit of a head start when it came to this particular virus.

2 (12m 0s):
more with the mayor after the break Hey, it's Kara Swisher. You may know me as the only person who looks cool wearing sunglasses indoors. But in my spare time, I host a podcast called Rico decode every week. We talk about power change in the people. You need to know around Tech and Beyond some of my recent guests include Edward Snowden Megan Rapinoe and the cast of The L Word which was a huge thrill for me. If any of these sound interesting to you, you should listen them now on Rico decode subscribe to the show for free on Apple podcast or in your favorite podcast app to be the first to hear new interviews every.

2 (12m 41s):
weak Hey, so I've been getting emails from listeners and sometimes even tweet saying like how can we support the work that you are doing that today explain is doing that Vox is doing and usually I'm just like I don't know share it. But now there is a different way to support today explained and vaux Vox is launching a contribution effort right now and vox.com give you can give money you can contribute to help Vox make podcasts to The explanatory journalism that you depend on and right now in this crisis is more important than it's ever been so you can choose what that work is worth to you and give to support Vox and today explained and all the stuff that you love that we do go to vox.com give right now and make your contribution just a heads up.

2 (13m 39s):
It's not tax deductible. But thank you so much for your support. Okay mayor, we talked about serological testing and how it's going to help us better figure out whose immune and maybe even why but then you broke the bad news that we don't have a ton of testing capability there either. What's up with treatment? Is there better news there

1 (14m 5s):
right now, there's a sort of throw everything at the wall and see what sticks approach to this. There's so many people infected and everybody's kind of pulling out all the stops to see what can work the one upshot here. Is that At this novel coronavirus fits within a family of other coronavirus has that the world has had some experience treating and so there's been a little bit of a head start here in terms of trying to figure out what could potentially work. We have experience with illnesses like SARS and MERS kind of see what worked there and what didn't and that could potentially, you know, smooth the path toward getting a more effective treatment out to the world sooner.

2 (14m 40s):
How about here in the United States is the United States developing anything independent of the rest of the world.

1 (14m 45s):
Well, most of these efforts are No, they're working across borders the companies that are developing at our multinational companies. But yes, there are a number of clinical trials undergoing here in the United States. One of the more notable ones is a drug called Rim days of ear. This is developed by a company called Gilead

2 (15m 0s):
REM Des aveer

1 (15m 2s):
the way it works is that it interferes with the way the virus replicates itself and it interferes with the virus but not with any human cells. So it has a very targeted effect. And this was a drug that was in development to deal with previous coronavirus has or previous infections. And so There was already a little bit of knowledge developed. But now they're pressing a little bit further pushing it through trials to see whether it would be effective against this new virus.

2 (15m 26s):
Hmm. What about the one that the president keeps Hocking and press conferences? What was that one called

1 (15m 31s):
again? Hydroxychloroquine?

2 (15m 33s):
Yeah. It's like a malaria treatment. That's right. It's

3 (15m 36s):
just powerful drug on malaria and there were signs that it works on this some very strong signs. And in the meantime, it's been around a long time. It also works very powerfully on Lupus lupus

1 (15m 49s):
a drug. Like this is pretty tempting because one it's already An approved therapy for other kinds of illnesses. It's an off-the-shelf drug. There are generics available. It's pretty cheap. The concern though is that it hasn't really been tested robustly against covid-19 some laboratory tests looking at cells and you know a petri dish showed that it could be effective at preventing the virus from entering cells. But the human trials have been much more mixed there was a study that was done in France where researchers were quite optimistic and they said that the results were pretty promising but that particular study was not a randomized trial and the Doctor Who was running it was Notorious crank

2 (16m 31s):
notorious crank

1 (16m 32s):
some follow-up studies some research groups in China and another research group and France found. It was really hard to distinguish whether this was actually making a difference for people who are sick and Some serious downsides to this drug to like this has some pretty serious side effects, you know there it can cause nausea vomiting and headaches and some people, you know with heart conditions that can cause some serious heart problems and it can cause some neurological symptoms as well. One of the concerns though is that since the president has been promoting this this drug has been flying off the shelves and pharmacies there now shortages for people who do need this drug for illnesses that are actually conditioned for this people pay.

1 (17m 13s):
Pants with lupus and patients with rheumatoid arthritis have had a hard time filling their own prescriptions because other people are trying to get prescriptions for hydroxychloroquine to prevent covid-19. Is there

2 (17m 25s):
anything other than REM des aveer and hydroxychloroquine that we should be thinking about? Well doctors are also looking

1 (17m 32s):
at other kinds of drugs that have been approved to treat other illnesses. So some researchers are experimenting with drugs that were used to treat HIV for instance those antivirals, but the Trial so far have been also pretty mixed. There's also a treatment that's kind of related to the serology testing that we were talking about earlier. The idea is you can Harvest antibodies from somebody who has recovered from the virus and use it to treat somebody who is sick or even potentially give it to somebody to prevent them from getting sick sort of as like a prophylactic this blood plasma transfer treatment is something that's actually being used in extreme emergency scenarios, but researchers are Also investigating whether this could be used more broadly as a therapy.

1 (18m 17s):
Once we can identify people who have had the virus and have built up the antibodies to it the drugs and treatments we've talked about so far they fit broadly into the category of antivirals. These are drugs and treatments that look at the virus directly and try to eliminate the threat that way. Yeah, but then there are more generic treatments as well that we can use in these are mainly immune system boosters. These are the drugs and other kinds of Pharmaceuticals that can boost our body's own natural defenses to the virus. What are we talking about? Like orange juice now, there's more like drugs like interferons interferons. These are signaling proteins that your body uses to indicate that there's an infection and when your body detects this it ramps up its immune response and it also makes cells harder to infect huh.

1 (19m 6s):
The downside is that when you're using these kinds of immune system boosters, it's kind of easy to tip the body to overreact. T' once your body's immune system gets ramped up. Then you can have these other side effects like inflammation and fever and it can actually end up causing more damage the body than the virus itself. And that's why you have to have a very careful calibration of these kinds of treatments.

2 (19m 28s):
How much do we know so far about you know, how well these antivirals and immune system boosters can help with treating covid-19 and how much is yet to be determined?

1 (19m 40s):
I mean, there's some anecdotal evidence that shows that certain. Nations can be effective. But right now we're in a situation where we have an urgent Public Health needs and so there's a lot of emergency uses of this but also an urgent need to do the research and so researchers and doctors are trying to balance this like the need to do a careful clinical controlled trial over several months versus having a patient in your ICU right now who needs treatment and that's kind of making it making a little bit difficult to answer some of these fundamental research questions. So this is sort of a trial by fire. We're actually seeing And these real-world uses of these drugs of doctors experimenting in their own clinics trying to figure out what could potentially work and it will just take some time to see you know, what actually pans out as an effective

3 (20m 25s):
treatment

1 (20m 28s):
there was sort of an expectation or sort of this idea that this kind of thing couldn't happen here or if it could it was not something that people realize that they needed to plan for and now we have a better sense that this is possible and there are tangible things that we could be doing to prepare for the next. Damn it from disease surveillance to having stock piles of valuable medical equipment that could be necessary. It is a learning experience. It's a hard lesson to learn we could have been better, but hopefully will be in better shape for the next fight, but we're not out of this one

3 (20m 58s):
yet.

2 (21m 7s):
That's mirror fun. He's a science reporter Vox. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today

3 (21m 13s):
explained.