1 (1s):
Video from Saturday shows demonstrators hold the doors open and stop an F train around 6:00 PM at

2 (7s):
The over the weekend, some New Yorkers protested a killing on the subway. In the subway,

3 (12s):
Protestors actually climbed onto the tracks, which is quite a dangerous scenario. 13 people we reported were arrested as a result of that.

2 (22s):
One week ago, a 24 year old rider named Daniel Penny put in a chokehold, a fellow passenger who was acting erratically. Penny killed Jordan Neely, a 30 year old man who was known to New Yorkers for his Michael Jackson impersonations. Neely was also homeless. Mayor Eric Adams gave a kind of non-answer to the question of what subway riders should do in these kinds of situations.

4 (44s):
We cannot just blatantly say, blatantly say what a passenger should or should not do in a situation like that. We should allow the investigation to take his cause.

2 (52s):
Coming up on today explained two New York reporters on a killing that has divided the city.

Apple Business Connect (1m 1s):
This episode is supported by Apple Business Connect. It's a free tool that allows businesses to take control of how they're seen across Apple Maps, messages, wallet, Siri, and other apps. Plus, you can access insights that help you learn how customers find your business and how to optimize your reach. Do all this and more from your browser or phone with Apple Business Connect, you can go to apple.com/business/connect to learn more.

2 (1m 33s):
There's this new show out all about an all powerful AI that has taken over the world, but it's not evil.

5 (1m 41s):
It's actually very nice.

6 (1m 42s):
Every time we see a story about ai, it only has one idea and that is to destroy humanity. We felt like the idea that was perhaps a little bit even more frightening was what if it just wanted to make us happy?

5 (1m 58s):
Damon Lindelof and Tara Hernandez on their series, Mrs. Davis, this week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast,

2 (2m 12s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King and you are.

7 (2m 15s):
I am Samantha Max. I am a public safety reporter at W N Y C and Gothamist.

3 (2m 20s):
My name is Matt Katz. I am also a public safety reporter at W N Y C, the public radio station in New York. And Gothamist, take

2 (2m 28s):
Me back to Monday a week ago. So

7 (2m 30s):
There was a train that was passing through kind of from the Lower East Side, making its way uptown, and we don't know exactly what happened, but based off of the account of one man who was inside the train car, he's an independent journalist who witnessed some sort of altercation between a man who we now know is Jordan Neely. In the midst of what seems like it was a mental health crisis,

3 (2m 57s):
Freelance journalist Juan Alberto

8 (2m 59s):
Vasquez recorded the incident. He says, Neely boarded the uptown F train Monday in soho, screaming and ranting aggressively start

9 (3m 6s):
To yelling violence language. I don't care if I die, I don't care if I going to jail.

7 (3m 16s):
He was screaming that he was hungry and that he was thirsty, that he was tired, and that he was even willing to die. And that according to this independent journalist, this man threw his jacket onto the ground. And at some point after that, he ended up in a choke hold with various people on the train, either interacting with this situation in some way or just kind of watching as it was happening. I spoke with some folks who were on an adjoining train car who they told me that the train stopped for several minutes and then everyone was told to get off the train and that's when they found this big commotion and they saw Jordan Neely on the ground still in a choke hold.

7 (4m 2s):
And you know, people were just trying to make sense of what was happening, but it seems like no one was able to successfully stop this person from continuing to, to choke Jordan Neely until he died.

2 (4m 14s):
Who is the man that put Jordan Neely in a choke hold?

3 (4m 17s):
His name is Daniel Penny. He's 24. He's from Long Island. He was a Marine, he was in the Marines. He is currently not active. He is now lawyered up. He has a very prominent attorney. In fact, the attorney that he hired is a Republican who ran for district attorney in Manhattan a couple of years ago against the Democrat, who is now the one in charge of investigating this case. So there's interesting political dynamic to that situation. And he also released an A statement through the attorney on Friday night

10 (4m 52s):
Attorneys for Mr. Penny releasing a statement Friday night, offering his condolences for Mr. Neely in writing. When Mr. Neely began aggressively threatening Daniel Penny and other passengers, Daniel with the help of others acted to protect themselves until help arrived, he added Daniel never intended to harm Mr. Neely and could not have foreseen his untimely death. Then

3 (5m 12s):
It goes on to say Mr. Neely had a documented history of violence and erratic behavior, the apparent results of ongoing and untreated mental illness. So that, that's interesting because obviously Daniel Penny would not have known that at the time they were strangers to each other. But this is some context that his lawyer's using and per perhaps projecting what the defense would be if Penny's charged with manslaughter or murder. Then the statement goes on to say that he needed to protect himself and others because Mr. Neely was aggressively threatening him. We do not see that in any of the video that we have. We have not heard that exactly from other eyewitnesses yet.

3 (5m 56s):
We know that there's no evidence that Neely touched anybody on the train, but clearly Penny. And he says other passengers felt scared and that's what led to this.

2 (6m 8s):
Tell me what we know about Jordan Neely. Who was he?

3 (6m 11s):
He's somebody that we know from both the, the witness to this incident and from people who knew him for many years as somebody who had long struggled with mental illness. His life at a young age was quite tragic. His mother was murdered when he was 14. She was actually strangled to death, which just has an eerie resonance here. And he testified at the trial for the man who killed her, who was convicted. He was a domestic partner of hers. And since then, according to reports from relatives, from people who knew him from homeless outreach workers from other homeless people, he struggled with mental illness and he made a living from what we could tell as a moonwalking, Michael Jackson impersonator who danced on the subways and on the subway platforms of New York City since at least 2009.

11 (7m 9s):
Here we go, here we go.

3 (7m 13s):
He was very well known to commuters. He was beloved by many people because he was very good at what he did. He was part of a little community of Michael Jackson Impersonators, who, who worked the streets of New York City. Our colleague spoke to somebody who knew him from foster care, said he used to share the money he made from doing this impersonation on the subways and the platforms, and he used to share it with other kids from foster care. Jordan

12 (7m 43s):
Used the money that he made on the subway trains to pay for our haircuts, to pay for our laundry, to pay for our food because our foster care parents were not giving us those resources.

3 (7m 54s):
So we have not focused on neely's criminal history so far in our reporting, we've asked about it from the N Y P D. They are not giving any official statement about his criminal history, but other outlets who have gotten information leaked to them by law enforcement have reported on many arrests for low level offenses that Neely had in his past. There was an interesting story about a, a victim of Neely's who came forward and gave an on the record interview to the New York Daily News who said he was punched in the, in the face by Neely, just while standing there on a subway platform a few years ago. Neely was arrested after that and the victim there thought Neely should be getting treatment for what seemed to him like untreated drug addiction and mental illness.

3 (8m 41s):
So we know that he had many brushes with the law by nature of the fact that he lived on the streets and lived in the subways.

2 (8m 50s):
You know, I was, I was born in Brooklyn, I lived in New York for much of my adult life and I left in 2019. But my memory of New York is that it is not uncommon on a subway train to see someone like Jordan Neely who appears to either be struggling or is kind of yelling, acting out. I missed the era of Covid, but I wonder broadly is what Jordan Neely was doing. Is that an uncommon thing to see on a subway in New York these days?

3 (9m 16s):
It is not uncommon. I mean, and I only can speak from anecdotal experience. I al also grew up in New York. I've been on again, off again riding the subways for 25 years. And from my anecdotal experience, there are more people who are displaying signs of mental illness or drug use on the trains now than they were several years ago. I've had personal encounters, I was on my way to W N Y C a few months ago to to guest host the radio shows. Eight in the morning, relatively, you know, enough people were on the train. It was not empty in any respect. And a, a man who appeared at first to be just an aggressive panhandler somehow picked me out of the crowd, got in my face, spit in my face, I was wearing a mask fortunately, and then moved on.

3 (10m 8s):
And part of what I found a little unsettling about it was nobody else on the train intervened. I I understand that, but nobody even said anything to me afterwards like, Hey, are you okay? Or, Hey, sorry about that. And, and I think what that indicates is it's so normal, you know, the, I doubt the people once they got off the train thought much about it or texted a friend about the incident. So yes, this, this is a common thing. I've spoken to mental health experts in the last few days and they say, listen, you know, there, there is no greater propensity for mental ill people to be violent than the general population at large. In other words, we need to be that scared of somebody who's displaying signs of being in a mental health crisis.

3 (10m 52s):
On the other hand, it's scary, right? I mean, when someone's acting erratically and maybe not wearing shoes or swinging around some object, it is hard not to be unsettled and, and perhaps scared in that environment.

7 (11m 7s):
I mean, this has become a huge part of the conversation around public safety in New York City in the last couple of years during the pandemic, there was a huge dip in ridership on the subways. And when you have fewer people, you just have fewer eyes on situations. And I think, you know, it also became a space where perhaps people who were experiencing homelessness were flooding to the subways. They have always been there, but you know, they're continuing to be there with fewer other riders around. So it becomes sort of a self-perpetuating cycle where there are people who are afraid to ride the subway so then they don't ride and then ridership continues to drop.

7 (11m 47s):
That being said, you know, it's still very rare for there to be violent crimes happening on the subways, especially compared to historic times. But it has become a huge point of contention for the elected officials in New York City and in New York state. Both Mayor Eric Adams and Governor Kathy Hoel have made a huge point of flooding the subways with police officers. They are in the process of installing surveillance cameras on every single subway car. They're sending mental health professionals into the subways.

13 (12m 22s):
Here's what we're calling it, cops cameras care. It's easier to remember the three Cs.

4 (12m 30s):
The subway plan is a comprehensive civic strategy that will do more than deal with a temporary fix. You can't put a bandaid on a cancerous saw. That is not how you solve the problem. You must remove the cancer and start the healing process.

7 (12m 53s):
The mayor and the Governor have gotten a lot of criticism for plans that they've put in place to forcibly remove people who seem to be in the midst of a mental health crisis. So, you know, a lot of New Yorkers are just really conflicted about it.

2 (13m 10s):
Okay, we're gonna leave it there. We'll be back with Matt Katz and Samantha Max, both reporters for W N Y C.

Ramp (13m 27s):
So board for today's show comes from ramp. If you're running a business ramp, might be able to help you keep your finances in order. What is ramp You? Ask? RAMP is an expense management software designed to help you save time and reign in spending from corporate cards to bill payments to accounting integrations. RAMP says it has helped over 10,000 businesses save a total of more than 400 million to date Plus RAMP can give your finance teams unprecedented control the control they seek and insight into company spending. You can issue cards to every employee with limits and restrictions and automate expense reporting so you can stop wasting time at the end of every month. You can get $250 when you join ramp. If you go to ramp.com/explain, that's ramp amp.com/explained.

Smoothie King (14m 18s):
Smoothie King asks, what's that sound? That's the sound of hearts popping outta your eyes when you see Smoothie Kings all new smoothie bowls, these power pack beauties are just waiting to be spooned. Our smoothie bowls start with Asai or Pattaya and are handcrafted with fresh toppings like sliced bananas, sweet berries, bright mangoes, crunchy, purely Elizabeth granola, and a savory peanut butter drizzle. That's the sound of a smoothie bowl being made fresh just for you. The new smoothie bowls menu only at Smoothie King,

2 (14m 50s):
stand clear

15 (14m 51s):
Of closing doors, please

2 (14m 57s):
Today explained Samantha Max and Matt Katz have both been covering Jordan Neely's, killing for W N Y C in New York. Sam, all this happens a week ago. And what happens in the days after

7 (15m 8s):
This independent journalist who we've mentioned who he had put a video on Facebook of the incident and the New York Post picked up that video. They spoke with this reporter and suddenly the story overnight goes viral. And by Wednesday there was a protest that was planned on the subway platform where all of this kind of came to a head,

16 (15m 33s):
Dozens this afternoon took to the platform at the Broadway Lafayette station protesting his death.

7 (15m 38s):
So I was on the platform with dozens of people who were just very concerned about what had happened.

17 (15m 47s):
Lynching, the message to law enforcement is very simple. Jordan Neely deserves justice. And when they chose not to arrest his killer, they sent a very clear and loud message to us that they thought, Jordan Neely's, life doesn't matter.

7 (16m 3s):
And then shortly after that, the medical examiner rules that the death is a homicide. I should note that that is not a legal term, it's a medical term, but you know, it's essentially a finding that someone has died at the hands of another person. And the way that that death happened was through compression of the neck. So any question that we had about whether or not it was actually the choke hold that caused his death, the medical examiner was ruling that that was what happened. So then of course from there you have people wondering, we have this ruling from the Medical examiner, why have no charges been filed? And the Manhattan DA's office comes out with a statement saying, essentially, please be patient.

7 (16m 47s):
We are investigating and we're asking anyone who might have witnessed this to come forward. And that's still where we're at right now.

2 (16m 55s):
Sam, you were at a protest and you talk about how people there were feeling. Let me ask you both more broadly, as you talk to New Yorkers, what are you hearing?

7 (17m 4s):
I think people are just really upset and disheartened. I mean, that being said though, like I, I think it is kind of a VAK test because if you look at my Twitter dms right now, there are some people that are not upset that this happened. And you know, I, I think it really is just kind of a litmus test to see how people react to something like this. I was speaking with two men who I had mentioned who were on the train, and they came onto the platform as all of this was going down. Their names were Dame Kings and Johnny Grimma. They both throughout their lives have experienced homelessness. And I think for them it was just a really scary scene to stumble into because James Kings, he was telling me like he felt as a black man who has lived much of his life, unhoused like that could have been him.

7 (17m 55s):
And he just was really scared by that and just feeling very unsettled by it. And I think they both also felt really helpless. Like they had stumbled onto the scene when it was too late for them to do anything. And yet they still felt like they should have done more.

18 (18m 11s):
I had assumed like these guys had his best intention in mind, but they didn't. And the way that he was moving him around on the ground was really aggressive. And you saw that happening and I saw that happening. His eyes were staring off. He wasn't moving, he was dead. You know, I did not realize he was dead when I seen him, but I tried to, I walked up, I poured a little water on his forehead, but then the guy that choked him out told me to stop. And you know, he took a little step forward, kind of aggressive and unfortunately I stepped off. You know, I should have taken command of the situation from him, you know, but that's something I have to live with.

3 (18m 53s):
This is totally, as Sam said, a a prism for how people view so many different hot button issues, safety in public places, the treatment of young black men, the broadening mental health crisis in the wake of covid, the, the effectiveness, the usefulness of policing. And it's, and it's become through the media and social media a major debate now in the larger national culture war, I mean, despite a lack of details that we have about what's going on, we already had Elon Musk liking a tweet referring to Jordan Neely as a worthless individual. And, and that's you, you know, you see that kind of rhetoric now.

3 (19m 34s):
So, and, and then the question is for, for so many people and the debate is, was the person who put him in a choke hold, a blood thirsty racist? Or was he a hero who was protecting innocent commuters? I, is this about our, the government's failure to provide shelter and food to the poor because Neely reportedly had complained about being hungry and thirsty before he was put in a choke hold or, or does this whole incident show the failure of government to provide law and order? And this is just an evidence of the fact that people have to take matters into their own hands. So this is gonna be a continuing conversation and I feel like it's going to shadow our politics in the city and maybe beyond the city for quite a while.

2 (20m 22s):
Matt, I wonder if you can put some of this in context. So there are instances, some very, very famous instances in New York history of either what was described as vigilantism or people not intervening when somebody was being hurt or even killed. What might New Yorkers longtime New Yorkers be thinking about as they think about this incident?

3 (20m 44s):
One of my earliest New York City memories is Bernie Getz and he was a, a white man who shot four unarmed young black man on the subway in 1984.

19 (20m 59s):
Vigilantism will not be tolerated in this city. You're not gonna have instant justice meeted out by anybody cuz that's not justice. Police

20 (21m 10s):
Reported receiving more than 500 calls praising the man who shot the teenagers, three of whom have arrest records according to police,

21 (21m 20s):
I felt the gunman was right

22 (21m 21s):
And him taking a vigilante type response to crime in the city leads other people to feel that they can do it too. It can be harmful to all of us.

3 (21m 31s):
There's another case from a couple decades before that Kitty Genovese, this story has, has changed through the years. Her

23 (21m 39s):
Murder in 1964 shocked the collective conscience of New York City and eventually the world. But what do we really know about what happened to Kitty Genovese?

3 (21m 47s):
The urban legend around it is that this woman wa was murdered and she screamed and nobody came to help her.

23 (21m 55s):
While many of the facts behind that original report turned out not to be true, the image of New Yorkers standing by as a young woman was killed, has become a part of the fabric of New York City's

3 (22m 5s):
History. And that was brought up in the wake of this incident because there were other people on the train car who were either involved in helping the person who was doing the choke holding or standing by. So those are the two major incidents.

0 (22m 24s):
What about more recently?

7 (22m 25s):
I think one thing that definitely comes to mind was early in 2022, there was a woman named Michelle Go who was walking on the platform at the Times Square Station and a man in the midst of a mental health crisis through her onto the tracks and a car hit her and killed her friends,

10 (22m 42s):
Say go spent the last decade advocating for the homeless and was trying to help those like her alleged killer.

7 (22m 49s):
And that was a situation that I think really scared a lot of New Yorkers because it was just a completely random encounter. And then just a couple months later, we had on another subway car, a man named Frank Robert James, who ended up opening fire into a crowded subway car at rush hour. Miraculously he did not end up killing anyone, but he did severely harm a lot of people. And that was another man who was struggling with mental illness. He

16 (23m 18s):
Posted hours of rambling profanity, lace videos on YouTube and other social media platforms that attracted little or no attention. This one from a month and a half ago when he criticized the mayor's plan tackling homelessness in the subways. Their

24 (23m 32s):
Plan is doomed for failure.

7 (23m 35s):
He since has pleaded guilty. And that's a case that, you know, I think again sparked a lot of concern among New Yorkers and folks who I've been talking to in the month since. There are definitely certain people who have changed their ridership habits because of it, but there are also New Yorkers who are still every single day taking the train in spite of it. And just kind of keeping it in the back of their mind. When

2 (24m 0s):
We bring our thoughts back to Jordan Neely, are there policies that might have prevented this incident? Is there something that should have been in place that currently isn't?

7 (24m 11s):
I mean, I think the subways have been flooded with cops and yet it is impossible to have a police officer on every single subway car all the time. So when this happened with Jordan Neely, there were no police officers there and it took several minutes even once they were on the platform for police officers to arrive. So that is certainly question number one of how many officers is enough and, and whether or not police officers actually do make people feel safer and, and who they're making feel safer. Because certainly at the protests I was at, there were some people who felt less safe having the police officers around. I think another thing is, you know, the mayor and the governor, they've been sending these outreach teams into the subways, particularly at the stops that are at the end of the line.

7 (24m 55s):
Once the train has stopped before it turns back around where they are often finding folks experiencing homelessness. And the idea is that they'll be offering resources to them trying to get them the care that they need, but it's still, you know, only scratching the surface of the amount of need that's had. And we also have a huge shortage of, you know, affordable housing and places for folks to go and a bunch of psychiatric hospital beds that went offline during the pandemic and are just now starting to be brought back online. But even so, there's just more need than there is capacity to serve at this point.

2 (25m 40s):
Samantha Max and Matt Katz are both public safety reporters for W N Y C in New York City. Today's show was produced by Avishai Artsy and edited by Matthew Collette. It was engineered by Paul Robert Mosey, in fact checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Noelle King, it's today explained.