3 (12s):
Today on the show. We're gonna do something a little different for the next while you're not going to hear from me or journalist. You're going to hear two mothers talking to their sons about the news.

1 (24s):
My name is Shawna Renee. I live in Washington DC where I've been for about 25 years now and I am an African American woman.

3 (34s):
My name is EJ's. I'm a 14 year-old African-American male and I'm from DC. How are you feeling? How are you doing this week? Um tired physically, uh-huh.

1 (46s):
You watched what happened in Minneapolis? Yes. George Floyd is so you watch the reactions to it. So I guess my Specific question to you is kind of how are you feeling about all of that? Is that part of your exhaustion or I mean, I'm old photo

3 (1m 1s):
reactions you for the reaction of I mean when you look at it, like they're listening to us this whole reaction. They're actually hearing what we have to say George flow the reason he dies because he used in counterfeit $20 bill. Like you know how stupid that is. Dy over counterfeit $20 bill. If you're in trouble, what why would you call the cops when you skate like that brings a lot of food to people would you ever feel comfortable calling the police? Probably not you wouldn't feel comfortable. If I'm in a situation where I have choice and there's a way for me to get out of the situation without calling the cops. I wouldn't call the cops the cops can twist any situation into what they wanted to be and be like, oh, he looks suspicious and I fear for my life.

3 (1m 48s):
And then all of a sudden your death is justifiable. Do

1 (1m 52s):
you feel protected then the who

3 (1m 54s):
do you feel do you feel protected

1 (1m 56s):
by anyone or

3 (1m 57s):
anything? But one family that's it. Honestly, I don't feel protected by the cops or what about Society. I like I like

1 (2m 6s):
what I mean. Just you know, do you think that if you went out here and someone saw something

3 (2m 11s):
happening to you, do you

1 (2m 13s):
think someone would come to your Aid and maybe not the police? Hmm?

3 (2m 17s):
No, I think every black child is scared of the police

1 (2m 21s):
you're afraid of what could be or you're afraid of I mean if you know that I'm

3 (2m 26s):
afraid of being like a statistic. I'm afraid of being on TV. I'm Of people say Justice For You Jazz and stuff. I don't want that to happen to me. I don't want that to be my life. I don't want my life to be a police brutality

1 (2m 40s):
story. I'm anna-marie vegan and I live in Chicago. I'm a parent. I'm a Christian and I'm white. I am Ben. I'm 13 years old. I am in 7th grade and I am white. What's most standing out to you about this week? What's most on your mind? What's most on my mind is that the people who are supposed to protect us have killed someone. I mean, there are police their motto is To Serve and Protect. Pretend I mean, I'm sure not a lot of people feel protected when they just turn on the news right now. I remember when you were in kindergarten.

1 (3m 22s):
Everybody was supposed to pick someone in the community like who is your neighbor that you wanted to interview that you respected and hear about their jobs and you as a kindergartener wanted to interview a police officer. That was one of the professions you most respected and has your thinking about the police changed a lot because of this week or definite. Eventually, yeah, what's different? I mean, I feel like it's progressed a lot through my life. At first. I thought like, you know, please for that stereotypical Halloween costume. You know They Carried around Baton wore blue suit and locked criminals up, but now I can really see that my beliefs aren't robots.

1 (4m 4s):
They're human beings and they're not all perfect and they act like humans they can do bad things. They have done bad things in cases like this. They've killed someone and I think that especially during this week. They've kind of misplaced my trust a little bit like him, even if I'm not specifically the ones who's going to be targeted for this if I was with like a friend who was maybe not the same color as me and we were in a situation where the police might be called. I would think about it before just instinctively dialing nine-one-one. I think you know how everyone has cultures we have a culture.

1 (4m 46s):
Where were Christians were Lutheran's we have a culture because of you know, particular traditions, we have and our socio-economic class and stuff and police have culture. It's not even just about are they good individuals or bad individuals but there's a problematic institutional culture that we have to address and I think that's something that's different about these protests. It's not just hold these for police officers accountable. Honorable, its we need to change policing.

3 (5m 17s):
So, how do you feel about con Feliz? I don't think I have as much

1 (5m 22s):
fear as you do. I mean, I understand the difference between being a young black man and being an older black woman. I think their perception of me is probably different and their treatment will be different. I've been fortunate that. I've not had any negative interactions with police but for you If you and I were together or if something were to happen to you and let's say I needed to call the police about you like my son is missing. I definitely would hesitate. Let

3 (5m 60s):
me show you just going out the whole appearance. I mean, I don't look like a Ford

1 (6m 8s):
saying that scares me. I'm gonna be honest with you. If anything scares me. It's the fact that you're tall that you don't look like you're 14. I mean technically your

3 (6m 17s):
Not even yet. You're still third on Thursday by my time, right? So I

1 (6m 21s):
mean you you're tall and you've got you know locks and it worries me sometimes because I'm like you're out here with the mind of a thirteen-year-old but someone may come up on you and assume that you're older I tell you of all the high-profile killings the one that really hit me the hardest was Tamir rice for that reason. He was only what 12 years

3 (6m 48s):
old for a police officer to

1 (6m 51s):
approach a young boy as if he were a threat he didn't give him the benefit of the doubt that scares me because I know that if you were afraid any 13 year old that is afraid may run because that's just your instinct chewable that that is

3 (7m 12s):
we don't want to die. I don't want to

1 (7m 14s):
die. And so you're afraid that if you

3 (7m 17s):
Some don't bring that you might that raid that cop is gonna take something the wrong way think they're fearing for their life because of whatever paranoid it is and then want to go out their way and just and me and you know that stupid that whole fearing for your life is stupid. If you're that scared to be a cop and you should have signed up for the job. Right but you signed up knowing that your life could be taken every single day. You're on a job on an active case your life to be taken like we don't sign a Back when we were born saying that oh, you know you you're black. So you any chance there is you could get killed by a cop like we don't know that you chose that job you chose to put your life on the line.

3 (8m 2s):
We didn't so if you're out here is scared. That black kids are going to take your life because their hands are in their pocket or they just they're paying slightly or they look like Gary. Patient in their pants or whatever and if you're scared to the point where you feel the need to kill

1 (8m 25s):
innocent people based off a little slight

3 (8m 28s):
movements, then it's not cut out for you. You stupid like you're actually stupid to not consider that to not consider the fact that you have to take a

1 (8m 39s):
risk. Yeah cops that families cops at

3 (8m 41s):
people to but again, that's your choice you signed up for that. You signed up to do

1 (8m 49s):
that. What does it mean to you to be white? It means I have a lot of privilege. I have a lot of chances and for one instance. We were driving in our car and you got pulled over by a police officer because when we were Wisconsin, yes, your tail light was out and he you need your license and you didn't have your proof of insurance. I had an expired one you and I hired why hadn't the effort. You hadn't got the updated one run your car and he was like no problem. Don't let it happen again. Just go and you brought up that probably wouldn't happen if we had a different skin color or if we were different ethnicity.

1 (9m 35s):
And I think that's kind of what it means to be white. All right. So you're black. You're a young black man in America. What does it mean to you? And and then I guess more importantly what would you like it to me? What are you hoping one day? It will mean if it's not the same

3 (9m 55s):
thing being a young black man in America means that subject to stereotypes. I always got to work two times harder than the next guy for half the credit and it just means that like I'm playing the hard mode of life. You're what you know how to video game you like the easy normal hard whatever being black is like the hard mode in essence when you looking at Society.

1 (10m 27s):
Do you feel shame or guilt for being white? I do? Yeah, why because I'm given these opportunities and I know I'm not I'm only 13 years old, but I feel like I haven't really done much to give back for all those privileges. I've took an advantage of it's one thing to try to be aware that we're white and that we have unearned privilege, but that doesn't mean that you need to feel guilt or shame. You didn't ask to be born into the family. You're born into or with the color of skin that you have. So what do you think we should do with our privilege? How do we not just marinate in white guilt? That doesn't really help anything.

1 (11m 8s):
We need to we need to speak out. We need to show that we can be trusted. We really need to make amends and I think we need to work together instead of just giving a one-sided apology for us when it does nothing for them. I also want you to know that even though there's a lot of things that make us mad. Add and things aren't going right. There's literally a sea of people of all colors and backgrounds right now saying we're not going to take this anymore and we want real change your living a really critical moment of History. We all are well. I know it's critical, but that also just brings me to believe this is not the first time it has happened in this will definitely not be the last time like how many more people have to die?

1 (11m 53s):
I feel like at the end of the day His name is just going to be worn on the list. Do you feel like kind of despairing sometimes I do I'm afraid that this is going to continue and that nothing's gonna happen. I'm afraid that I don't know one of my friends will be hurt by a police officer or or maybe not even by a police officer. Like there's that one black man jogging and he got shot a mother bring. Hmm. I'm not afraid of police hurting you and that's something that I know black parents live with so much for their children and the thought of something happening to you Ben makes my whole body shake or you know, that would be the end of the world of be the worst thing I can imagine and and yet concretely I don't think you're going to die prematurely because of racism or inequity, but I am afraid that your Going to become cynical and despairing and just give up because adults have failed you like I worry a little bit about that and I just want you to know there are a lot a lot of adults working together to bring about better Futures.

1 (13m 12s):
I always wondered what it'd be like to live in a era defining moment and boy we're finding out right now. Yeah.

3 (13m 20s):
So I thought these past police brutality incidents. It just feels like sometimes goes in in one ear out the other how do you think this situation is going to play

1 (13m 30s):
out? It's hard to say. I have to remain hopeful as I remained hopeful after Trayvon after Mike Brown after Tamir rice. I've decided you're Bland. Fernando Castile I have to remain hopeful this one I believe is different only because I'm seeing a shift in the overall Consciousness. I see more white people taking responsibility for racism, which is their problem. So in that regard, I think it might be different but I am a realist white racism and white supremacy is a Generations old system upon which this entire country is built.

1 (14m 24s):
So it's not going to happen overnight like Trump being out of office is not going to end white supremacy, and I'm hoping that

3 (14m 35s):
you and your people will do

1 (14m 38s):
what we weren't able to do which was switched the Paradigm a little bit and instead say no. No, it's your turn now. If you want to live in a society where looting doesn't happen if you want to live in a society where there's no crime, if you want to live in a society where people are treated fairly and there's life liberty and justice for all that you got to change.

3 (15m 20s):
After a quick break, I'll speak with a clinical psychologist about when and how parents are all parents should talk to their kids about

1 (15m 29s):
race.

3 (15m 50s):
Hey, this is reclined host of the Ezra Klein show on the box media podcast Network. My guest this week is Tallahassee codes. We have a discussion that is more hopeful than I expected but also goes to something pretty deep. What if we stopped thinking about non-violence as something that only protesters and the powerless needed to live up to what if it was a core value of the state itself would have the very people preaching it had to actually call it. What would that look like you makes this point that I think is just great. Who are called on to be nonviolent other people with the least amount of guns and the ability to do the least amount of damage, whereas we don't, you know call upon that you also those who have the most power and actually can do the most damage. You can hear a whole conversation by subscribing to the Ezra Klein show wherever you get your podcasts.

3 (16m 42s):
Dr. Howard Stevenson. Thanks for making time for us. How you feeling right now? I'm good. I'm in you know, I tell people I'm like two seconds from crying three seconds from choking somebody four seconds from healing and five seconds from digging a hole and crawling into and staying in until it's all over. Well, let's get this interview out of the way then huh. Yeah. Yeah, so you're a director and a professor at you pens. School of Education you've done tons of work with teachers and parents to figure out the best ways to talk to kids about racism. When do you think parents should start having these conversations with their kids?

3 (17m 23s):
Well, it's a great question and this is amazing research done by a colleague friend of mine Walter Gilliam out of Yale who does his work on preschool explosions and in his research has identified that black students are significantly higher like three to five times higher to be expelled and it's really about the adults over reaction to the behaviors that are Developmental and normal for these children. I posed a parent sometimes what if you know, you knew that in even in preschool well-meaning teachers and maybe not so well meaning might see your child as a problem when they're not really being a problem. Would you then think about talking to your child about that right feeling uncomfortable how they're being treated in particular way but children can learn early and preschool to me.

3 (18m 10s):
Seems like a very good time, you know in the first half of the show, we heard from two parents who didn't seem to have much trouble talking with their kids about this kind of thing. But I know that it's a lot tougher for other parents out there. What are the biggest stumbling blocks to talking about race with kids? What have you found? What we find is that parents don't often want to do it and parents of color sometimes different than white parents white parents often. Don't talk about race for a host of reasons. The big issue is I don't want to damage my child and I don't want to say anything scary. My child and I said, well, you know, if you think about it parents say things scary to their children all the time. All right, you know and I was with a group of fifth graders in Chicago once and they have some do your parents ever say anything scary to you and say, yep don't talk to strangers and took take candy from strangers and I said, okay great.

3 (18m 57s):
Has anybody that you didn't know come up to you and offer you candy and they said nope never happened. Right? But we'll prepare for it. Right? They could all say we know exactly what to do and so parents do say scary. Things but children just don't start having nightmares about molesters coming at them after that conversation, right? Yeah, what about you know, these racial encounters that happened way more frequently, but they're not prepared for them. You wouldn't do that with algebra. You wouldn't say look my child has a real fear of fractions. You know, I'm not going to I'm going to leave them out for the next three weeks and that's the same way. We would approach dealing with racial matters if those issues of discrimination happen.

3 (19m 40s):
Why wouldn't you practice why wouldn't you give them skills? Why wouldn't give them tools and homework. It's teaching we had a guest on the show yesterday a black father who said he looks forward to the day when black parents don't have to have the talk about race with their kids is part of the issue here that black parents have been having these kinds of conversations with their kids for generations and it's sort of new two white parents as a matter. Of course, yes, but I do think there's a particular dance though in white. Families that sees it but doesn't want to see it but let you know the moment your child. Actually, let's say has a friend of color get stopped by the police your children could be traumatized by witnessing that by also being helpless to deal with it.

3 (20m 27s):
You can escape through avoidance. We can't all just pretend it isn't there but all parents struggle with this, right? How are the struggles different between you know, black and white families? We have actually a program with Doctor Rihanna. I understand and I created called Embrace which really basically is teaching families of color how to talk to the kids about race and so happens that just because your personal code doesn't mean you can manage the stress of these conversations. Right? And what we've learned is that you can't just start with the conversation with your child because as you start to talk many of the parents start remembering their own traumas and they have images and an intruder In what they want to say to kids so we split up parents from kids and have the kids talk about their life experiences have the parents thought about their life experiences and it's like night and day difference, you know managing your own trauma allows you to be much more prepared.

3 (21m 27s):
You know, I know you talked about oscillating between wanting to cry and wanted to choke someone right now, but I hope you also find it heartening that More people than I've ever seen in my lifetime seem to care right now. What do you think is most important for parents to do in this moment? What do you want to see change? I would say for all the years of civil rights protest. You need to have a teacher's guide and a lessening behind it. So that everybody knows here's why we did that. I think you need a teacher teaching along. Are you need parents, you know saying here's why I decided to take you to the protest.

3 (22m 8s):
Here's why I want you to remember the next time for your children why we're doing this is because if there's Injustice anywhere is a threat to Justice everywhere, including you and our neighborhood and our people. All right, and I think these incredible acts of Bravery need to be followed up with a plan to teach people. Why because there's so many people who are still don't Really get it.

1 (22m 35s):
I think America must see riots do not develop out of thin air certain conditions continue to exist in our society, which must be condemned as vigorously as we condemn riots in the final analysis A Riot is the language of the unheard What is it that America has failed to hear it has failed to hear that the plight of the Negro poor has worsened over the last few years. It has failed to hear that the promises of freedom and Justice have not been met and it is fail to hear that large segments of White Society a more concerned about Tranquility in the status quo than about Justice equality and humanity and so on.

1 (23m 29s):
Wilson's our nation Summers the riots are caused by our nation's Winters have

3 (23m 36s):
delayed. Today explained is part of the VOX media podcast Network. I'm Sean Rama's from I make the show was no, I'm hassenfeld Jillian Weinberger. Bridget McCarthy Halima Shah. I'm gonna al-saadi mu JT a film Shapiro and we'll reads been helping out to Cecilia lay is our fact Checker music comes from no MM and the Mysterious brake master cylinder. And Liz Nelson is vaux's editorial director of podcasts. If you have people in your life who are struggling to understand this Ended significance. I hope you will share our work, especially from this week with them from explaining antifa, and the abolished the police movement to exploring how police unions impede accountability and we even have a few pointers on how to be anti-racist.

3 (24m 28s):
Thank you for listening. Thank you for sharing. Happy birthday. You jazz.