0 (1s):
For almost one month now, stories have been trickling out about the personal finances of United States Supreme Court justices, private jets, real estate deals, conflicts of interest, the kinds of things you'd wanna disclose to your boss if you were an unelected government employee who wielded God-like powers, except the justices weren't doing a ton of disclosing and it's been raising lots of eyebrows. And today, all that eyebrow raising culminated in a Senate judiciary hearing.

2 (30s):
Highest court in the land should not have the lowest eco ethical standards.

0 (34s):
We're holding our own hearing at today, explained. We're gonna talk to a guy who helped break the original story about Clarence Thomas and his billionaire bestie. And we're gonna ask why the Supreme Court is so bad at accountability and whether its current corruption crisis might change anything.

1 (51s):
Oh, oh, oh oh.

BalanceUS (1m 0s):
The Coca-Cola Company, Keurig Dr. Pepper and PepsiCo are bringing consumers more choices with less sugar than ever before. In fact, nearly 60% of beverages sold contain zero sugar. Visit balance us.org to learn more.

4 (1m 17s):
Here's a pop quiz. What's a better factor to determine upward mobility? A elementary school test scores b A two parent household, or C commute time.

0 (1m 28s):
We know

5 (1m 29s):
That social mobility depends on literal mobility.

4 (1m 34s):
Transportation. Secretary Pete Buttigieg on the weeds referencing a 2015 Harvard study. I'm John Glenn Hill, host of the Weeds, a podcast all about the policies that shape our lives. Find it wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (1m 47s):
C Chow Today,

0 (1m 56s):
Joshua Kaplan was one of three reporters who broke a story at ProPublica about Justice Clarence Thomas and his big billionaire bro, Harlan Crow. We asked him why he was looking at Clarence's Finances in the first place. Well,

6 (2m 10s):
We didn't start by looking Justice Clarence Thomas. We started looking at travel and we found evidence that Clarence Thomas had flown on this billionaire Harlan Crow's private plane from DC to New Haven and back for a visit that lasted only three hours. Like it looked like he was flying on this jet for like a lunchtime appointment. We weren't sure what he was there for, but you know, we talked to other, you know, private jet charter companies and they told us that, you know, renting a jet for a trip like that would cost about $70,000.

0 (2m 48s):
Wow. How much money does Clarence Thomas make a year as a Supreme Court Justice?

6 (2m 53s):
He makes $285,000 a year.

0 (2m 56s):
So goes without saying, he probably didn't drop 70 K on a private jet out to Connecticut for a few hours. So let's ask, who is Harlan Crow?

6 (3m 6s):
So Harlan Crow is a real estate billionaire who lives in Dallas. He oversees his family real estate empire. It's called Crow Holdings. Part of the

7 (3m 17s):
Whole goal was to succeed as a group of people working together. The idea if, if you earn a dollar, you share that dollar. I mean, it doesn't belong to me, it belongs to us.

6 (3m 27s):
And he is also a very influential figure and has been for a long time in kind of pro-business conservative politics. He's a major Republican donor, has given many millions of dollars to campaigns and political causes, and he's also given millions to ideological efforts to move the law and the judiciary further to the right. You know, like the Federalist Society. The

8 (3m 56s):
Federalist Society is a beacon of hope for conservative and libertarian lawyers that believe in a constitutionally based G federal government and a judiciary that says

6 (4m 8s):
He also sits on the boards of, you know, major conservative think tanks that published scholarship advancing, you know, very specific conservative legal theories and whose scholars occasionally file amicus briefs with the Supreme Court.

0 (4m 22s):
And once you found out about Clarence Thomas's very expensive lunch to Connecticut. Yes. What else did you find out about his financial relationship with Harlan Crowe? Yeah,

6 (4m 32s):
So I mean, first there were the trips and you know, to name one recent example in 2019, Clarence Thomas flew to Indonesia on Harlan Crow's private jet, and then spent nine days island hopping on Crow's super yacht, which is staff with, you know, private chefs, a host of stewardess. And we were told that if he was to charter that plane and that yacht himself, you know, the trip could've easily cost $500,000.

0 (5m 6s):
Wow.

6 (5m 6s):
Then we had our second story. We also found a direct financial transaction, the first known direct financial transaction between these two men, which was a undisclosed real estate deal. So Harlan Crow spent, you know, roughly $133,000 to buy three properties from Clarence Thomas and his relatives, one of which was the house, this old single story house where Thomas's mom was living. And the others were two vacant lots down the street. So that was, you know, the only instance we're aware of where there's money actually directly flowing from Crow into Thomas' pocket.

0 (5m 49s):
Just to be clear here, you're saying that Harlan Crow bought Clarence Thomas's mother a house.

6 (5m 58s):
He bought Clarence Thomas's mother's house where she was living from Clarence Thomas, and then she kept living there. CNN has reported that she's not paying rent. You know, another thing we found is that, you know, she's still living there today. It's about 10 years later, and shortly after Crow bought the house, this local award-winning architecture firm began work on tens of thousands of dollars of improvements on the property.

0 (6m 27s):
Why is this happening? If she already had the house, why did this guy buy her house and then start renovating it for her? Do we have any idea?

6 (6m 35s):
Well, Crow told us that he bought it because he intends to one day eventually make it into a museum.

0 (6m 43s):
Huh. Like the Museum of Clarence Thomas,

6 (6m 46s):
The Museum of Clarence Thomas is a house where he spent part of his childhood. It is, you know, important property in his life. And Crow told us that he approached Thomas and his family about making this purchase. Crow's never directly addressed the question of why he also bought two vacant lots from Clarence Thomas that are, you know, down the same street. And so, you know, the exact details of the motivation, there are a bit, a bit less clear.

0 (7m 12s):
How unusual is all of this, the trips to Indonesia, the private jet to Connecticut, the buying of his mother's house, and two other lots that he owns.

6 (7m 23s):
There is no known precedent for this in the modern history of the US Supreme Court in terms of the scale, the frequency, the lavishness. And we talked to, you know, experts in a number of current and former federal judges who told us Thomas has broken longstanding norms for judges conduct. I think it's, you know, worth noting that judges are supposed to conduct themselves with a level of probity that exceeds even that we expect from our other public officials. I mean, they have lifetime tenure because they're expected to remain independent and to conduct themselves in a way that promotes confidence in the judiciary and, you know, stay insulated from the Hurley Burley of, of Washington politics.

0 (8m 17s):
Okay. We're talking about norms, we're talking about standards. Is any of this actually illegal experts

6 (8m 24s):
Told us that Thomas appears to have broken the law, although maybe not in the way that you'd expect,

0 (8m 30s):
Huh?

6 (8m 31s):
So there are very few rules restricting what gifts Supreme Court justices can accept, and that's a stark contrast to the other branches of government. You know, there, there are a lot of rules for Congress, for instance, when it comes to accepting gifts. But with the Supreme Court, it's pretty much anything goes. And so there's not really any question that by accepting a, you know, extraordinarily expensive trip to Indonesia, that was okay in terms of the law. Where he appears to have breaking the law experts told us is that he didn't disclose any of this. So there's a landmark government ethics law that was passed after Watergate that requires Supreme Court justices and, you know, many other high level government officials to disclose most gifts to the public to disclose most real estate transactions over a thousand dollars.

6 (9m 27s):
And, you know, experts told us that by not disclosing things like flights, by not disclosing, you know, the money he received from Crow Thomas appears to have clearly violated the law.

0 (9m 38s):
What's Justice Clarence Thomas saying about all of this?

6 (9m 42s):
You know, we went to him for a first story about travel. He didn't respond to us the detailed questions we sent him, but the day after it published and it was causing, you know, a fairly heated response in Washington, he released a statement where he said,

10 (9m 58s):
Harlan and Kathy Crow are among our dearest friends, and we have been friends for over 25 years as friends do. We have joined them on a number of family trips during the more than a quarter center. We have known them early in my tenure at the court, I sought guidance from my colleagues and others in the judiciary and was advised that this sort of personal hospitality from close personal friends who did not have business before the court was not reportable.

6 (10m 24s):
After we received that statement, we went to seven ethics law experts, including former ethics lawyers for the White House and Congress who'd served in, you know, both administrations of both parties. And they all told us Thomas clearly had to disclose things like private jet flights and that if he's arguing otherwise, he's simply incorrect. Hmm. Now, the real estate transaction, Thomas hasn't said anything. CNN had a report citing an anonymous source close to Thomas that he intends to amend his disclosure and essentially that he misunderstood the rules. Huh? We've gone to Thomas saying like, is this true?

6 (11m 5s):
He hasn't responded to that either. And so far, you know, that amended report hasn't been made public.

0 (11m 12s):
Your reporting on Clarence Thomas seems to have led to other reporting from other outlets about other justices. What else have we found out in the intervening weeks? There've

6 (11m 23s):
Been a number of reports. Politico reported that Neil Gorsuch sold a property he had a stake in to a lawyer at, you know, a major law firm, and that he sold a, I think it was nine days after he became a justice, which he disclosed the sale. Unlike Thomas, he did not disclose who he was selling it to, which is, you know, a bit of a murer legal question at that point. Although there was a box, you know, on the form for him to list that. There was also a report last week from Business Insider about John Robert's wife and her, her job, which is, you know, essentially a, a head hunter for corporations and law firms looking for top employees in the amount of money she's made off of this.

0 (12m 17s):
How much money is she made off of

6 (12m 18s):
It? I think it was about 10 million over the years.

0 (12m 21s):
$10 million.

6 (12m 25s):
Yeah. I mean, and, and you know, she was a successful lawyer before Roberts went on the court. You know, this is, this is her job that she is being paid for her job, although it is an eye-popping amount of money and some of these firms, you know, have had business before the court. And so I think there's a a long history of questions being raised about family and spouses of public officials and whether they're trading on, you know, their spouse's public position. I think the root issue here is that the Supreme Court has very, very little transparency and very, very little oversight compared to virtually every other part of the federal government.

6 (13m 13s):
And for a long time, Supreme Court justices have been left almost entirely to police themselves,

0 (13m 18s):
And we're seeing that maybe they're not that good at it. Josh Kaplan ProPublica find his reporting@propublica.org in a minute. What it would take to get someone else to police the various financial schemes of the Supreme Court Justices.

11 (13m 49s):
Hey folks, I'm Heather Cox Richardson.

12 (13m 51s):
And I'm Joanne Freeman.

11 (13m 53s):
We're the hosts of now and then a podcast from Cafe and the Vox Media podcast network that looks to the American past to make sense of our current political and cultural climate.

12 (14m 4s):
Recently we've traced the tangled history of the New York County District Attorney's office, the American cultural fascination with UFOs and our national love hate relationship with the banking industry.

11 (14m 15s):
Tune in each Wednesday as we make sense of the headlines and the long road to this crucial moment for democracy.

12 (14m 22s):
Listen for free wherever you get your podcasts.

13 (14m 27s):
Hi, I'm Neil Patel, editor and chief of the Verge and host of Decoder, a podcast about big ideas and other problems. Recently I spoke with Chris Vest, the CEO of Subs about competing with Twitter with its new notes feature. And apparently going head-to-head with Elon Musk is not half as difficult as answering questions about content moderation, er, to figure out should we allow overt racism on sub notes. You have to figure that out.

14 (14m 52s):
No, I'm not gonna engage in speculation, you know, specific, would you allow this or that content question? You

13 (14m 59s):
Know, this is a very bad response to this question, right? You're, you're aware that you've, you've blundered into this. You should just say no. And I'm, I'm wondering what's keeping you from just saying No, I

14 (15m 9s):
Have a blanket. I don't think it's useful to get into, like, would you allow this or that thing on

13 (15m 16s):
That whole episode of Decoder is up now. It's really interesting. You can get it in Apple Podcast, Spotify or wherever you listen to podcasts.

15 (15m 26s):
I can put

16 (15m 26s):
You in somewhere in

0 (15m 30s):
Aspen today. Explain is back. We are here with Ian Mill Heiser, senior correspondent at Vox who covers the Supreme Court. Ian, it seems like the Supreme Court justices really like to fuck around. Are they ever gonna find out the, the

15 (15m 42s):
Bad news is probably no. The reason why they get away with this over and over and over again is that the only real way to remove a justice of the Supreme Court is via impeachment. And it's just very, very unlikely that the super majority of senators that would be necessary to remove a justice is going to come together no matter what these guys do.

0 (16m 4s):
And to let people into like a little today, explain behind the scenes here. About a month ago when ProPublica first reported this story about Clarence Thomas and his ties to Harlan Crowe, I reached out to you on Slack and said, Ian, are we gonna do this show? Or are you writing about it? And you were like, eh, I don't know. It's kind of like the same old story with the Supreme Court. Tell me why you weren't more surprised by these revelations. Yeah,

15 (16m 29s):
I mean, I jaded there were a bunch of very similar Clarence Thomas related scandals that broke. It came out that he had accepted a, I believe it was a $15,000 bust of Abraham Lincoln from the American Enterprise Institute, which is a conservative Yeah, I know. Like this man just loves his, his art. I guess

0 (16m 50s):
That sounds like something you would find at Goodwill.

15 (16m 53s):
Exactly. I mean, this conservative think tank decided they needed to give it as a gift to a sitting Supreme Court justice. And I will point out that a e I filed several briefs in front of the Supreme Court. It doesn't take an ethics scholar to figure out why this should not be happening, but nothing ever gets done, even though we've known about this relationship that Thomas has with Harlan Crowe for a very long time.

0 (17m 15s):
Have people tried to do anything about these ethical concerns at the Supreme Court before?

15 (17m 21s):
Yes, but never with any success. You know, when the news broke at 2011 that Thomas was taking all of these gifts, there was some noise in Congress about maybe doing something about it, the Chief Justice, every year he releases an annual report, his annual report on the federal judiciary, and he devoted much of his report that year to the calls for an ethics code for the Supreme Court. But basically what he did was, you know, in a very polite judicial tone, give Congress both middle fingers and say, no, you're not imposing an ethics code on him. In fact, that 2011 report repeatedly suggested would be unconstitutional for Congress to impose an ethics code on the Supreme Court.

9 (18m 8s):
The,

15 (18m 8s):
The argument is some sort of vague separation of powers that, you know, the, the Supreme Court is an entity created by the Constitution itself and therefore Congress has very limited authority to regulate the Supreme Court. You know, Congress has a tremendous amount of control over the Supreme Court's docket. You know, it used to, it has the power to decide almost to the level of which cases the court hears and which cases it doesn't hear. So I don't really buy this argument, but the problem is it doesn't matter what I think what matters is whether there's five justices to strike down an ethics code and at least a 2011, the court seemed to be hinting that, yeah, they would strike it down if they didn't like the ethics code.

0 (18m 50s):
What about in 2023? I mean, you've got bad press for Justice John Roberts, you've got bad press for Neil Gorsuch. You got bad press for Clarence Thomas. Nobody likes bad press. Do you think there is a growing consensus amongst the nine justices that maybe we should submit ourselves to a higher ethical standard? I

15 (19m 13s):
Don't know if the justices have figured this out yet, but like it's in their interest to have an ethics code. And the reason it's in their interest is because in addition to this Clarence and like the Clarence Thomas scandal is egregious, you know, for 25 years he's been accepting massive gifts from this billionaire. I mean, this is as bad as the Abe Fortis scandal in the 1960s, which was a different corruption scandal that led to just Justice Abe Fortis resigning from the court radio.

17 (19m 42s):
Would you make the statement in these circumstances, it seems clear to me that it is not my duty to remain on the court, but rather to resign in the hope that this will enable the court to proceed with the vital work free from extraneous stress that was written by Supreme Court Justice Abe Fortis in his 1969 letter of resignation from the Supreme Court because he had subjected the court to not quite two weeks of controversy, about $20,000 that he had received from a foundation three years earlier in his first year on the Supreme Court.

15 (20m 20s):
So like, if you look at what Gorsuch is, ac is, is accused of, for example, he had a property that I think he has a one third ownership stake in out in Colorado that he was trying to sell. He'd been trying to sell it for I think like two years and then nine days after he was confirmed to the Supreme Court, someone bought it and the person who bought it was the chief executive of a major law firm that practices in front of the Supreme Court. And so if the Supreme Court had an ethics code, what it could do is it could have an outside body whose job is to look at these kinds of transactions. It could ask questions like, you know, was the property bought at fair market value?

15 (21m 4s):
Was this an arm's length transaction? Did Gorsuch know who the buyer was? You know, did the buyer know that Gorsuch was one of the sellers? Like there's all sorts of questions that if the Supreme Court had its own ethics authority of its own ethics board, it could submit these questions to that authority and the authority might come back and say, yeah, like there's smoke here, but there's no fire. Like this transaction turns out to be fine. So that some of these things that don't rise to the really egregious level that the Thomas scandal does, could be evaluated on their merits. And it may turn out that, you know, the justices do not deserve to be accused in some cases of what they're being accused of.

0 (21m 45s):
So you're saying that nothing's gonna happen unless the justices decide to sort of self-police, which is rare, right? You, you, you seldom see a group of powerful people surrender power. Why is it that the writers of the Constitution didn't bake something like this into the document? Was it because they didn't see these kinds of ethical quantities coming up at the Supreme Court?

15 (22m 6s):
There's just new issues that come up. One reason why John Roberts is in a bit of hot water right now is because his wife, Jane Roberts, is a legal recruiter and she helps recruit lawyers at law firms that practice in front of the Supreme Court. That's not an issue that would've come up at the founding because the founders were pretty sexist. And you know, the idea that you would have someone on the Supreme Court who has a spouse who is also themselves a very high-powered professional with a very high-powered career, that just wasn't something that existed in in, in the 1790. As these new issues come up, you need to come up with rules to navigate them.

15 (22m 47s):
But the problem is that the Supreme Court hasn't done that work.

0 (22m 50s):
And now there's this hearing on Capitol Hill today to talk about this, but there's also a piece of legislation from Senators Angus King and Lisa Murkowski. This

18 (23m 1s):
Is not a radical idea. Every judge in the country, except for these nine, have to follow a code of conduct at every time.

0 (23m 9s):
What are they trying to do?

15 (23m 10s):
So it's a pretty vague piece of legislation to be honest. You know, the first thing that it does is it just says the Supreme Court has to come up with its own ethics code, I think within a year. The other thing that does is it requires the Supreme Court to appoint some individual who will be their ethics monitor and that will be responsible for these questions of, you know, if a justice sells some property and it turns out they sold the property to a lawyer, let's have a third party look at that transaction and make sure that it's above board. And it doesn't mean that a justice is never allowed to sell their land, but what it does mean is that we need to have someone, you know, making sure that nothing was done in a way that create that, that creates a conflict of interest.

0 (23m 52s):
Is there any chance that this could become law?

15 (23m 56s):
Unlikely. I mean, Republicans control the house and I think Republicans are reluctant to embarrass someone like Clarence Thomas.

19 (24m 6s):
Well, it's not gonna work. This assault on Justice Thomas is well beyond ethics. It is about trying to de delegitimize a conservative court that was appointed through the traditional process.

15 (24m 24s):
And so I fear that the combination of Thomas's resistance to any meaningful ethics code and Republican members of Congress being reluctant to embarrass Clarence Thomas is going to make it hard for us to get any kind of code in place. Any kind of reform that would happen I think would have to come, you know, at the soonest after the next election, and then only if Democrats have a blowout election. But I think that at least within the Democratic Party, there's a real sense that the court has gone off the rails, both because of its substantive decisions and because of fears of corruption. And you know, if I were a justice, I would be concerned that Congress is gonna start making my life more difficult unless the justices start showing that at the very least they aren't gonna keep accepting.

15 (25m 17s):
You know, trips on super yachts from billionaires

0 (25m 25s):
Ian mil heiser v.com. Our show today was produced by Halima Shaw and s Petros. They had help from Amina aad, Laura Bullard, Serena Solan, and Paul Robert Mosey. I'm Sean Ramas firm and this is today Explained.