4 (0s):
The federal government has blocked access to abortion for people with low incomes for over 40 years through the Hyde Amendment enough is enough Joe Biden pledge to an ACLU volunteer that he'd end the Hyde Amendment and if elected we need him to follow through on that pledge Biden can lead on reproductive Freedom by removing bands on coverage in his first budget and refusing to sign bills with hide restrictions. The time to end hide is now paid for by American. The Liberties Union Inc rights for all dot-org whoa. Whoa, whoa played an actual good song.

4 (1m 2s):
No, I'm what day is it? It's Saturday. What are we doing here? We're here for the kids John. Oh like today explain summer camp. Got it. Okay. Well anything for the kids what's up on the island of explained what we've had a lot of kids telling us that they're grappling with all kinds of difficult emotions during the pandemic. So producer bird Pinkerton and I we're going to go to the island were going to rent a canoe and take it right off the island on to the emotion emotion the emotion An ocean. Yeah the emotion ocean. It can be a fun place a scary place. But you know, it's also a place where you can learn how to process difficult emotions. All right. Well DC doesn't have a lot of ocean just to dirty rivers in a bunch of pools that are shut down for The Rona so I'm stoked a listen in.

4 (1m 53s):
It is so nice to go to my bedroom again. Holy smokes. Yeah, and I think you're gonna love it out here on the emotion ocean. It's where I go when I'm feeling something really deeply. Well right now, I'm feeling hungry. Good thing. I brought boat snacks. Bird where you going to share that PB&J or you just keeping it all to yourself? Wow. Oh no, I'm I was just about to offer you some are you feeling okay? Yeah. I'm sorry. That was really mean. I don't usually get that jealous. It's okay. It happens here. Let's find something to take your mind off it check out these weird green.

4 (2m 32s):
Jellyfish jealous fish bird, not jellyfish. Oh jealous fish bird that In there, they're always vibrating with jealousy. It must have affected us. But how come the jealous fish affected you more than me. Well emotions are kind of unpredictable, you know, some people experience emotions more intensely than other people so it's always a good idea to head out onto the emotion ocean with good friends. Good thing. I'm here with you then. Hey, do you hear that? Oh, no. I feel bored and cooling team.

4 (3m 13s):
Oh, no, he's just a boy. Oh, no. Oh no. Oh no. Oh, no what? No, um, well when people feel bored their feelings float out onto the emotion ocean. Okay, that doesn't seem like that big of a deal. It's not unless enough people get bored all at the same time and then they're bored thoughts all come together in the ocean and they form a board whale and a lot of people must be bored right now. So many kids are bored in quarantine and there's been a lot of board whale sightings out here. I mean good girl. Oh, no, it's happening.

4 (3m 53s):
The thoughts are all squishing together and they're creating a board whale What quick Let's paddle away. Come on, we can't it's too late. It's so hard to paddle all of a sudden the water feels almost thick. Yeah, once the board whale starts to form. It gets really tough to get away. He moves really slowly but he's got this like gravitational pull. Oh God, he's surfacing. He's huge and Grave and somehow has a guitar. My name is born and today me if you do not stop but you in my belly.

4 (4m 53s):
That's a joke, right? He'd never. Actually swallow us Woody course, he would bird. Why do you think they call it boredom? You're in boards. Tum. What are we gonna do? And why do I feel the urge to do nothing? It's okay. He's only inching towards us right now. I prepped for this. Just go look under the seat over there behind the safety vests. You should find a crate this one labeled music stuff. No, no the other crate Thomas for boards. Um, I think I found it. Is it the one with all these bottles these labels are so weird go-karts pecan smashing Roller Coaster songs.

4 (5m 36s):
Well, a lot of kids have been stuck at home during the pandemic and honestly, they've come up with some pretty creative ways to keep boredom away. I bottle them up just in case of something like this and all you gotta do now is uncork one. Okay here goes nothing. Hey, mr. Whale listen to this. Crusoe right. Now. I'm finding worms for my tiger salamanders. It's gonna be interesting to see if they'll eat them or not because worms aren't native to this area. It's been a while since I've went digging for worms. I see when I see when I see does that work for you bored.

4 (6m 18s):
I don't have thumbs. So I can't dig for worms. I'm still bored mum's it's okay. It's okay. Try another bottle. Okay. This one says laundry. How can laundry be fun? I'm helping my mom take her laundry up to her room doesn't really fun because it gives me a workout because it's sort of heavy. So I just delivered all the laundry, but that sounds kind of fun right board.

4 (6m 58s):
I can't do laundry because I don't wear clothes. I'm still bored. I don't want to live in boards Tom Forever. Don't worry. We're going to figure it out. Just bring that crate over here and maybe I can pick a good one. Okay? Or did you just break all the bottles? I'm sorry. I told you I was awesome. I'm practicing my beatboxes who took the other one since I'm on a farm. I'm going to find the Sheep. So hey, I think I see a sheep.

4 (7m 40s):
Just break your fast as we bump into each other maybe out one mad, so he bumps. Wilson see who wins I've got the big hammer thing and I'm now smashing the pecans into a little bit. Let me go see if they want to be petted pineapple and putting one of them. It's so fluffy going on around. Under roller coaster Costa coaster the really fluffy we're explorers.

4 (8m 22s):
I'm very consistent really fussy. So I started off making funny videos, which we have characters named Bob Tim Jeff and cnut and they had different voices, which I did myself the boy for Both are in the toilet don't know Scrappy scarce can be scrapped as your hands off hands. I'm about to bat and social distancing sign on the fence. They just adopted two new kittens two weeks ago their names are blueberry smoothie and Covey.

4 (9m 6s):
Why are you still holding the must come to my mouth and there's a swing and I'm about to go on it. Hey, two one. Lord you must be happy now so many activities go-karts and swinging and begging and be foxes. Let me try I guess boots and cats and lizards. I could never do that. I'm bore. I don't think it worked bird. Oh God. He's coming right at us brace for impact you following us.

4 (9m 53s):
I hope you're still alive after the break humble humble. Support for those kids show today comes from another kid show.

4 (10m 35s):
It's called brains on from American public media brains on is a podcast for kids, but also curious adults each week host. Molly Bloom is joined by a different kid co-host to find answers to fascinating questions. Like can you dig a hole to the Center of the Earth do plants have feelings? And why do we li you can listen to brains on wherever you listen to. The federal government has blocked access to abortion for people with low incomes for over 40 years through the Hyde Amendment a ban on abortion coverage that hurts people enrolled in Medicaid and other insurance programs enough is enough Joe Biden pledge to an ACLU volunteer that he'd end the Hyde Amendment and if elected we need him to follow through on that pledge the polls show Biden ahead of trump with almost a 20-point lead with women the message on reproductive freedom.

4 (11m 34s):
Is clear and Joe Biden has an opportunity to lead by removing bands on coverage in his first budget and refusing to sign bills with hide restrictions. The time to end hide is now paid for by American civil liberties Union Inc rights for all dot-org. Boo, boo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo, it's white. Okay bird, this should help us see in here. It doesn't actually really look like the inside real whale just a huge gray hallway with grade ores but looks like it stretches out forever.

4 (12m 15s):
Yeah, that's because we're actually just inside of an emotion all these boards thoughts take the shape of a whale but boredom is really just a feeling man. This is so not fun. No bird. You have to fight the urge to be bored. We have to get out of here. I don't know. I think I'll just be bored forever. Wait, who's that walking down the hallway? Hey folks. I'm Erin in your world. I'm a psychologist. I study boredom at the University of Florida. But I come to the island of explained study boredom more closely. Whenever the board. We all swallows someone I stop by and see what it does to them. Huh? That's that's pretty cool. I don't know.

4 (12m 55s):
I mean no offense Aaron you seem great but like it sounds boring. Why would you want to study this? It's literally the most boring thing in the world. No, that's where you're wrong being bored is fascinating. Did you know boredom is actually really good and healthy for you. What boredom is good for you? How is that possible Oil board. I'm just like sadness and fear and these other bad emotions that we don't really like they're really useful their tools and they teach us that something's wrong. So sadness tells us that we've lost something we really care about and fear tells us that there's something really dangerous.

4 (13m 35s):
Dangerous going on board. I'm tells us that what we're doing right now. It's not meaningful. So if we didn't feel bored, you just lie around all day and never want to do anything at all. Hmm But I don't know. I'm bored and I don't feel inspired to do very much. I just feel great. Yeah boredom doesn't feel great. We don't always feel like getting up and doing a lot of stuff when we're bored. Sometimes we kind of withdraw don't do anything and that's common for them happens when you know, there's something out there that you Want to do something that could be meaningful but nothing fits the bill and you're sort of struggling to find something that is Meaningful in the moment, huh, if nothing feels right, how are we going to leave boards tongue?

4 (14m 17s):
Well, there's some good ways to get out and there are some bad ways come this way. I want to show you this this hallway. I don't really want to leave my boat behind. It's a rental. I don't be okay. Trust me, okay. Come on, bird fine. Whoa double rainbow. So each door here leads to a tube. This one is the YouTube. Oh, this is kind of cool. I love you next video.

4 (14m 60s):
Next video. I'm about to count to a hundred thousand. You still wish to watch why I'm definitely not bored now. Hold on. No, this is fun. Whoa. Wait for it. I know we're finally back in and we're right back here where we started and Boards Tom. You see there's lots of doors that you could open Instagram YouTube video games, but then you fall back down and pretty soon. We're bored again. Just where we started.

4 (15m 40s):
Does that mean we're stuck here forever. How can we actually get out? Well, there's no foolproof way to do it and it just like me. I still doing a lot of research on how to stop feeling bored. So for instance, some people say that you can stop feeling bored by finding something meaningful to do others that you really need to find the right challenge. One of my favorite ways is to be creative to use creativity to escape from boredom. So we just make something new now. Yeah, so you can try to think of something that's fun and engaging if you can think of something you really care about you can try to think of how you could do that here. The moment Norm you like to make music, right?

4 (16m 23s):
Yeah. I wonder if I could make some type of song. Can you try it now? Maybe you can get out. I mean, um, we do have that creative music making stuff. Oh, yeah the crate it's got everything. I need I could make a song right now. I can't wait to hear it. What are you use for inspiration? Hmm. Well some of those boredom thoughts we heard on the ocean those were kind of musical. I wish we could hear him again. Well this whole whale well is made up of board thoughts. I wonder if I just poked at the wall over here. I'm bored. Wait do that again. I need a record. It not always up for more pokin.

4 (17m 6s):
I'm bored. Got it. And honestly this kids a natural. I wonder if I could make his boredom the melody for my song. I'm bored is not add a little bit of delay turn into girl. You add in a bee? Hey the hallways dissolving. Yeah, that's how you know, you're really out of boards.

4 (17m 46s):
Tom. You just find something that really really interests you and engages you creatively and bored. I'm just kind of Fades away though. I love boredom. So I'll be here studying it. Okay, well. I guess I hope I don't see you soon. Thank you so much for your help Aaron. It was really nice to meet you. Yoo-hoo, you know now that I got these creative juices flowing bird. I think I don't really want to stop I might just make this song bigger. Okay, let's get all these other boards. That's that are floating around that way. They won't become another whale. Oh, maybe you can weave those in years song too. We can make this song so weird and fun, like weird and funny and ridiculous and ridiculous.

4 (18m 31s):
And honestly, we never would have made it if we hadn't been so bored. It's pretty much still just the most noise. Thing I've ever been through the most interesting thing that I don't know where summer is all nothing. I really hated outside. Would you do nothing? Inside we do nothing. So quarantine is just a boring vast thing of nothing outside.

4 (19m 13s):
Would you nothing inside we do nothing. So quarantine is just a boring. Yes. Boy, today's episode is brought to you by today explain summer camp counselors know I'm hassenfeld and bird Pinkerton Gillian Weinberger edited the episode of beam Shapiro engineered with the help of his son Harvey boxes editorial director of podcasts Liz Kelly Nelson helped a bunch to or the whale was played by Jeff geld.

4 (20m 5s):
He's a very talented audio engineer here at vaux who also writes straight bangers. Dr. Aaron Westgate took a break from researching boredom at the University of Florida to hang out in boards, Tom and we had help from Morgan Givens Amanda Northrop Rachel giannini Salim Hugh Penny Lauren cats, Jamila various and Rachel Israel special thanks to all the kids who gave us a glimpse into their lives in quarantine, Alejandro, Amal Amelia, August Benjamin, Casey Emily little Ezra Chi Kiana Clementine aliev, Lucy. Nico Phoenix, rila and fira the song you're hearing right now is called I'm bored and it's up on Spotify Apple music and all those types of places just search for today explained you can spend more time on the island of explained with the set of activities we put together for you to do with your grown-ups in to do with your kids.

4 (20m 55s):
And if you ready to say goodbye to boredom head over to vox.com today explain the kids for some laughs out loud activities that you can do with your squad or on your own. Again, that site is vox.com. Today explained kids. The rest of the takes plain team includes Bridget McCarthy Halima Shamu JD indomina al-saadi. I'm Sean Rama's firm. We had extra help this week from Paul Mounds and Taylor Makin Cecilia laid checks the facts the mysterious brake master cylinder does music and today explained as a part of the VOX media podcast Network outside. Would you do nothing inside would you? I think so quarantine is just a boring vest nothing.

4 (21m 43s):
This episode is brought to you by cotton New Age therapy take a canoe out on the emotion ocean avoid frustration crustacean discover Purpose with the purposes and find out why we call orcas Chiller Wales, but rental start it just 1599 anyone fails to return their boat will internalize years of emotional trauma and be unable to reconcile the relationship with the parents must be eight years younger to Alpha and snails men slime.