0 (3s):
Let's say you're young, not a kid, but young. Let's say you realize now how much in the world isn't black and white. Let's say you still want to do something you think is right. And you're watching when Vladimir Putin invades a smaller weaker country.

2 (26s):
Honestly, I just need to think Ukraine was stabbed 24 hours. But when I woke up and saw that the Ukrainian defense was holding, I figured that, you know, this is a pretty worthy cause I don't think there's been a better example of good versus evil in a long time.

0 (42s):
Let's say you decide, you want to be part of it.

2 (46s):
This is just basic. They're fighting to be free. And I can't think of a better cause deserve help.

0 (54s):
Coming up on today, explained an American veteran fighting in the war in Ukraine.

3 (1m 3s):
Have you ever looked up a new pair of Jordan Eleven's online that you've been dying to have and then been inundated with ads for those same sneakers everywhere you turn, you can take back your privacy, but IP vanish, VPN IP vanish helps you safely browse the internet by encrypting a hundred percent of your data, just one tap and your searches, passwords communications, browsing history, and more will be instantly protected. Even your physical location is hidden. IP vanish makes you virtually invisible online. Go to IP vanish.com/box now and use promotional code V O X to get 70% off their yearly plan. That's IP V a N I S h.com/vox.

2 (1m 54s):
Currently we're over the border in Poland getting some extra equipment and things like that. We cross back over Tuesday, late Tuesday evening.

0 (2m 4s):
Alexander's a coli is 23 years old. He's a former us army combat medic. And lately he's been shuttling back and forth between Ukraine and Poland. Can you tell me Alexander about the moment that you decided you were going to go and do this? What happened?

2 (2m 22s):
I've been kind of keeping in close size since 2014. I, I figured this would come. It reminded me a lot of the annexation of Austria by Nazi Germany. And I, I figured that the, the rest of the hammer would drop soon. I remember in school when the 2014 annexation of Crimea up again, we watched it in the last room. I always wanted to be in the military as a kid. And when I enlisted at 18, if that continued to keep an eye on it, I was 16. When they invaded from it, I was always super interested in a world war II history, doing a little minor history in college and stuff. I just so it's, I just kind of saw it as something of, Hey, this is, this is a repeat.

2 (3m 5s):
The quote that history repeats itself is ever so true when you watch it happen. So I don't know. It just seemed like it would be the next big war of my generation.

0 (3m 15s):
Did you join the army? After college?

2 (3m 18s):
I dropped out of high school at 16. My mom was ill. I got my GED at 17. I believe I did a couple of years of community college. The day I turned 18, I walked in the army recruiting office signed. I left for basic in April, 2017. I turned 19 and Fort hood.

0 (3m 37s):
Did you serve in the conflicts in Iraq or Afghanistan?

2 (3m 41s):
No. Ma'am

0 (3m 43s):
At any point in your career, in the U S army, did you see combat action?

2 (3m 48s):
Nope.

0 (3m 49s):
I see you served on active duty for two years. I understand. Are you in the guard or in the reserves now?

2 (3m 57s):
No, absolutely not. Anyone in IRR status or reserves or guard cannot come here?

0 (4m 3s):
Why not?

2 (4m 5s):
You are still beholden to the United States government. If you're inactive ready reserves, you are still fulfilling a term and commitment to the U S military. But if you are guard reserves IRR, please don't come. You're just, you're going to get yourself hemmed up,

0 (4m 22s):
Going to Poland, going to Ukraine. There is expense associated with that. I imagine even if it's just a flight, how did you afford this trip?

2 (4m 33s):
So for myself and for a couple of the guys here, a lot of our flights were sponsored by a gentleman named Anthony Capone demands. I don't know how to describe it. I mean, he he's, he's shelled out his own money to get us here and to get us equipped and to get us into this fight to help. So he paid for a lot of stuff. A lot of us have a go fund, me just to pay for like basic living expenses while we're gone, like rent and things like that. That, I mean, I think my flight would have been like 1200 bucks.

0 (5m 1s):
It's a lot of money.

2 (5m 3s):
I don't have that at the ready. I'm still 23, my bank account. So Yeah, he paid for it. He's brought equipment over here, body armor. I've been in constant contact with man. It's just excellent. I can't speak highly enough of these enabled a lot of people to come over here and to help that wanted to help. And wouldn't normally be able to

4 (5m 27s):
Not a hundred percent certain exactly how much of my own money I have spent because it is intermixed with other sponsors who have come in. But in total it's hundreds of thousands of dollars. My name is Anthony Capone and I'm employed as the president of a mobile medical company called doco little over 10 years ago, I went on my first real global traveling experience. I was trying to make it around the globe going easterly without getting on a plane. And while I was traveling through Europe, I was in Warsaw and I wanted to, to Moscow to travel on the Trans-Siberian train.

4 (6m 7s):
And the fastest route from Warsaw to Moscow is through Belarus. And when I arrived there, I did not realize I needed a transit visa. I then received a pretty serious roughing up from a number of the soldiers there. And then they proceeded to eventually somewhat, thankfully throw me back on a train, back to Warsaw and on my route from on my train ride from Warsaw to Kibbe, I met a Polish, a Ukrainian told me stories about his own traveling about him being helped by the Hadeen when he was traveling through Afghanistan, into Iran and, and just, you know, story after story of how humanity had helped him while he was traveling.

4 (6m 49s):
And it inspired me to keep going and not give up. And then I proceeded to stay with him for a few days and his, his place in Kiev and, and that trip ended up becoming one most impactful parts of who I am today. And so I owe to him and to that experience, a, a great deal.

0 (7m 10s):
You arrived in Poland first is that right?

2 (7m 13s):
That's correct. Warsaw, where we rented a car, drove to Krakow. We linked in with some other Americans over on the ground already and have been here for a couple of weeks. We stayed for a couple of days, and then we left from crack out to cross parked their vehicle. We walked over the Modica pedestrian crossing, where we picked up a Ukrainian contact who drove us into Leviev when we were in Modica. I just, I can't stress this enough. It's it is a humanitarian crisis.

0 (7m 42s):
What did you see?

2 (7m 44s):
Malnourished children covered Mylar blankets. I think the biggest one that stuck out to me was there was an older lady who was, I don't know, maybe in her eighties, who's in a wheelchair, wrapped in a blanket. Some of these people are waiting 36 hours to cross the border. There's just not enough. It's not built for this kind of traffic. I don't know if those tents are heated. I'm going to assume they're probably not. You've got children. You've got pets and it's, I don't think it's, it can't handle the amount of people it's getting, but DECA shows what this war is really doing.

0 (8m 17s):
What feeling is this evoking in you?

2 (8m 21s):
Anger. I think I speak for everyone here.

0 (8m 25s):
Yeah,

2 (8m 26s):
We got really use during the Afghanistan Iraq war to seeing civilian targets get hit by accident. This isn't that this is targeted, purposeful shelling of civilians. They're making an attempt to, to cause Ukraine just to submit by killing their populous. We watched them explicitly target civilian population centers.

0 (8m 47s):
What did you see?

5 (8m 49s):
We were there and we got Sheldon 10, 11, something like that. We got to the shelters. We could hear it hitting. This is purposeful

0 (8m 58s):
Alexander. It cannot escape me that at this point in your career, you've never faced an actual enemy. You're a smart man. You're well-trained but you've never fought an enemy. Do you feel that you're prepared for this?

2 (9m 15s):
I do.

0 (9m 17s):
Why?

2 (9m 18s):
Well, I mean, even if we're ignoring the humanitarian crisises and the, the war crimes and Ukraine and all of us feel an obligation to those back home, because it's not going to end in Ukraine. A lot of the guys here, haven't seen a formal combat action, but are here anyway. It's just, it's, you're going to find it one way or the other. I think we all rather get in front of it.

0 (9m 39s):
Alexander, who do you report to? What uniform are you wearing?

2 (9m 43s):
Ah, well, uniforms are in short supply, but we operate with the blessing of the Georgia national Legion. We met with their commander and he's given us the green light.

0 (9m 54s):
You're linking up with guys who have fought the Russians before. Is there something that you are currently wearing that identifies you as not a civilian?

2 (10m 4s):
That's correct. So it'd be the, the Georgia national Legion patch and the blue tape around the right arm.

0 (10m 11s):
Alexander, have you considered what could happen to you if you are captured by the Russians?

2 (10m 16s):
Absolutely. And we all have kind of made our piece of that. I think all of us understand that capture. Isn't really an option here.

0 (10m 24s):
What does that mean?

2 (10m 25s):
If we're captured by Russians? Assuming we won't be just paraded in front of tasks, like a dog and pony show, none of us are going to get a happy ending because we're Americans even targeting Americans. That's why they hit the foreign Legion training facility. I don't want, I don't want to be dark your podcast, but no,

0 (10m 42s):
Look, you should tell me what is going through your head. I you're, you're what you're doing is extraordinary. I think it's best if we're just honest about what you envision happening.

2 (10m 52s):
Yeah. Everyone's keeping emergency hand-grenades. So if it comes to that, then is what it is. I'd rather meet my own end in my hand than any kind of then given to me by the Russian Federation.

0 (11m 13s):
Alexander. I think this question demands to be asked, Are you sure this is the right thing to do? No doubt in your mind?

5 (11m 25s):
Nope.

7 (12m 16s):
This is advertiser content from the American cancer society.

8 (12m 20s):
Dear black men, I'm here to encourage all my brothers to get screening tests that helps find cancer early. When it might be easier to treat in 2015, I's diagnosed with colorectal cancer. I had an emergency surgery to move malignant tumor that had ruptured. The real story is that before I had the symptoms, my doctor had been recommending that I get a screening colonoscopy. I kept putting off scheduling it, but I'm glad we caught it before the cancer had spread Today, I'm able to enjoy my family because my cancer was detected early.

8 (13m 5s):
As black men. We face many systemic social economic and racial challenges. According to the American cancer society, black people have the highest death rate and shorter survival rate of any racial ethnic group in the U S for most cancers. But it doesn't have to be this way. Getting regular screenings can help find certain cancers early and can even help prevent colorectal cancer. Listen, my brothers paying attention to our health and wellness. It empowers us to persevere. I'm so blessed to be here today, to share my story with you. Sincerely Dave Ford,

7 (13m 47s):
To learn more about how the American cancer society is addressing cancer disparities through direct work and communities and investments in making the healthcare system more equitable for patients and their families visit cancer.org/health equity

9 (14m 5s):
Cover story. A new podcast by New York magazine is back for part two so far in our first season, we've investigated the underground world of psychedelic healing. Now we're going above ground. I

10 (14m 19s):
Kicked the door down to be in the FDA clinical trial.

9 (14m 21s):
We're going to the world of labs and accredited institutions where clinical trials are testing, psychedelics as a treatment for trauma.

11 (14m 32s):
I was really trying to communicate that like I was not okay.

9 (14m 35s):
We hear from trial participants who share what happened to them, but didn't show up in the published data.

11 (14m 42s):
When I say like, hell was inside of me and was only halfway out and it got stacked

9 (14m 47s):
And we look into what happens when someone taking psychedelics dies,

12 (14m 52s):
None of us have ever wanted anything other than the truth of what happened to someone. We love

9 (14m 59s):
Check out new episodes of cover story, power trip, wherever you listen to podcasts,

0 (15m 8s):
Foreign fighters are getting to Ukraine, Overland they're carpooling. They're flying in. They're paying their own way, or they're getting someone else to pay for them. Some come alone. Some are in groups. All of this could equal chaos. Dr. Lindsay Khan and associate professor at the U S Naval war college in Newport, Rhode Island, who studies these types of situations. These are her views, not the U S Navy's says the Ukrainians, no, this could go sideways.

14 (15m 35s):
The Ukrainians are aware of this. So they have set up what they are calling an international Legion. The way that they are doing this is they, they have a website, in fact, and you are supposed to apply at a Ukrainian embassy or consulate, and they will vet you because they do not want extremists. They do not want ideologues. What they want is people with military or law enforcement experience and specifically combat experience because frankly, other types of people, the counterproductive Foreign fighters entering a conflict is an ages old phenomenon it's gone on in most conflicts for hundreds of years. And it used to be sort of the normal mode of fighting.

14 (16m 18s):
And there are three groups of people who tend to do this sort of thing. One, as you mentioned, is veterans. It's often a desire to reclaim the feelings of purpose and comradery and shared sacrifice that many of them may, may miss from their service. Sometimes it's a feeling that this is what they know how to do best. The second group of people that tend to go are what you might call ideologically motivated. People who see this as an identity issue, either they identify religiously or ethnically, or in some ideological sense like freedom, democracy or things like that. This group of people tends not to have military experience and they tend to be sort of naive.

14 (17m 3s):
And they often don't do very well. The third group is extremists, and these are people who tend to be radicalized already. We tend to think of these now in a jihadist connection, but there are plenty of examples of extremists of various stripes. And of course, in the Ukraine situation, the extremists that we know of tend to be a white nationalists.

0 (17m 28s):
It's one thing for Ukraine to let foreign fighters in. But if a country hasn't formally entered the war as the us hasn't is it legal for their citizens to go

14 (17m 39s):
By us law? It is not illegal for an individual to leave the country in order to enlist in a foreign military, it is illegal for Americans to Mount military expeditions from the United States. That's the law from way, way back in implementing the Hague convention on neutrality that was supposed to keep countries from becoming co belligerents in a, in a conflict. And you can understand why launching an actual military expedition from the United States territory would be different than having Americans on their own go somewhere else to enlist in a foreign military. So as far as the U S is concerned, if you're an individual who just decides to do this, that's not illegal.

14 (18m 24s):
The statutes on the books, they're they're in us code 18, title 18. They do say that you shouldn't be recruited on us soil, but the department of justice almost never pursues such cases. So from the U S perspective, the only time that this would be a crime would be, if you were going to join a military that was fighting against the United States. So for example, we captured several Americans fighting with the Taliban in Afghanistan, if you recall, and they were determined to be criminals under us law. So if you're fighting against the United States, it's a crime. So you can be prosecuted and you can lose your citizenship.

14 (19m 4s):
Potentially. It's not a crime. If you go and enlist with the intention of giving up your us citizenship, but it will lose you, your us citizenship. So from the U S perspective, this is not likely to have consequences for your average person, your average veteran, doing this the only time and the us state department has a website that has all of this information. The only time it's likely to be a problem is if you have an active security clearance, then it might be a crime to go join a foreign military. And if you are interested in ever having an active security clearance, you might want to consult a lawyer before you engage in this kind of thing.

0 (19m 43s):
What protections do they have and not have under the Geneva convention? If you're, for example, taken prisoner, you do have certain rights. Does that foreign fighter share the rights of Ukrainian soldiers?

14 (19m 57s):
If they are a dual citizen, if they have Ukrainian citizenship, then they would probably still be treated as a pow if they were captured by the other side, with all of the Geneva convention rights, if they were purely an American citizen, Russia already stated that they will consider any foreign fighters captured to be mercenaries and not treat them as prisoners of war. Now, technically most of the people going to fight don't actually meet the definition of mercenary.

15 (20m 32s):
Mercenary is any person who is specially recruited locally or abroad in order to fight in an armed conflict. Does in fact take direct part in the hostilities and is motivated to take part in the hostilities essentially by the desire.

14 (20m 49s):
But that in reality, doesn't matter because if you are captured by the Russians, the Russians will call you a mercenary and they will try you as a mercenary and, or simply deny you pow protections, possibly use you as a hostage or a bargaining chip, possibly use you as propaganda. There are all kinds of things that can go very, very wrong for foreign is captured by the other side,

0 (21m 15s):
Do we know where foreign fighters are coming to Ukraine from

14 (21m 18s):
Right now? The, the majority of people on the Ukrainian side are coming from nearby former Soviet spaces on the Russian side, they do have, they also have people coming in from former Soviet republics, primarily of course, Belarus. And the Russians are now recruiting from the middle east and apparently Africa. And they have set up multiple recruiting centers in Syria. And I just saw a report that there are some volunteers coming from the Central African Republic to fight on the Russian side.

0 (21m 50s):
When you think about the big picture aspects of what is going on here, men and women from all over the world, not just the west, this war could drag on. We don't know how long for, but if citizens of other countries are getting involved in this conflict, does this in a way, turn into a tiny version of a world war. And I don't use that term lightly.

14 (22m 13s):
Foreign fight has nearly always intensify on prolong conflicts, which makes sense if you think about it because they generally join the weakest side, the appeal is frequently ideological, even for the veterans. You know, the they're not going to go and fight in any old fight. They're going to go and fight in one that they think is worthwhile, which generally means if they're effective at all, that the fighting is intensified and prolonged, which generally has consequences for the civilian population, as well as of course, the fighting forces. One of the issues that you find is that people who went over with no particular ideological knit to pick may come back to their home countries, after the conflict, feeling much more, what we would call politically efficacious or, or sort of motivated to be involved, but they now have a mindset that politics has changed by violence.

14 (23m 8s):
And so they can become a threat to their home countries. The number of people who come back from these and become domestic terrorists or extremists is fairly small, but obviously a small number of terrorists and extremists can be damaging. Pauline Moore did a study on the consequences of foreign fight, a presence for human rights violations and violence against civilians. And she did find that in general, sort of on average, the presence of foreign fighters, increased violence against civilians, whether this turns into a mini world war, I mean, my concern would be that it turns into an actual world war in that if Russia wants to escalate the conflict, it can use the presence of foreign fighters as a pretext.

14 (23m 53s):
That's always a concern. It's one of the reasons that sometimes countries ban people from doing this. I think the emotional appeal of going to help the Ukrainians in this war is obviously huge and not just emotional appeal, but, but a desire to maintain an international norm of not being successful when you invade a neighboring country. But there are a lot of aspects to the foreign fighter phenomenon that are dangerous, difficult can have long-term consequences. And I think it's important that anyone who wants to help contribute to Ukraine's effort thinks about it long and hard before they do something like actually go to fight and really should only do that.

14 (24m 39s):
If they, if they really know what they're doing and have skills that would actually help Ukraine

0 (24m 54s):
Today's episode was produced by Victoria Chamberlin and Cole reported with McKenna Kelly of the verge. We based our episode on a story McKenna wrote it's called a tech executive is privately funding. Hundreds of soldiers to fight for Ukraine strongly recommend it. You can find it@theverge.com. The show is edited by Matt Collette engineered by a fume Shapiro, and fact-checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Noel king it's today explained