3 (1s):
Stop searching and start streaming with HBO Max. HBO. Max is all of HBO and so much more extreme thousands of hours of entertainment with HBO's entire Library together with classic big screen favorites and exclusive Max Originals with more last gasps and goosebumps to choose from HBO. Max is the answer to that age-old question. What should we watch tonight? Start your free HBO Max trial and get back all that time. You spend searching for the next thing to New HBO Max viewers can enjoy seven days free then pay $14.99 per month free trial is for new customers. Only restrictions apply start streaming now at HBO Max.com from director Jay roach and writer Paul redneck comes Coastal Elites a socially distant satire and five comedic confessions about coping with the new abnormal the all-new 75-minute special Stars Bette Midler Kaitlyn Dever.

3 (60s):
Damn. Only lie, Sarah Paulson and Issa Rae as five characters breaking down and breaking through as they grapple with culture politics and the pandemic Coastal Elites premieres Saturday, September 12th at 8 p.m. On HBO and streaming on HBO Max. There's a new kid on the block of 1600, Pennsylvania

1 (1m 24s):
Avenue. His name is dr. Scott Atlas, and he's recently become one of President Trump. Stop pandemic advisors. So like he's an infectious disease expert like ouchie, right?

3 (1m 37s):
Nope. Nope, nope,

1 (1m 38s):
nope. Oh, but he's obviously an

3 (1m 42s):
epidemiologist. Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Oh.

1 (1m 46s):
Okay. All right, but but Atlas is probably a physician with with loads of experience advising politicians.

3 (1m 54s):
Yeah, nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Okay.

1 (1m 58s):
Well tell me he's not just some guy who the president's on Fox News a bunch

3 (2m 4s):
Bingo

1 (2m 5s):
those who are not at risk to die or have a serious Hospital requiring illness. We should be fine with letting them get infected the policy of Isolation is actually destructive and is literally killing people by having total population isolation. We are preventing natural immunity from developing great after six months of various states of locked down quarantine, social distancing and mask-wearing 200,000 deaths and some six million cases President Trump has brought in Fox news's neuroradiologist and chief to advise him on covid-19.

1 (2m 47s):
And the worst part is according to reports from the Washington Post. He's kind of into herd immunity as a path forward for the United States when you get immunity and low risk groups. In fact each other. There's a blockage of sort of the pathways to the vulnerable. This is called herd immunity. I don't think herd immunity is the way out for any place. I don't think any place is even close to herd immunity and as a strategy it Dangerous, this is dr. Howard Foreman. He's a professor of Public Health at Yale University. And as you just heard he's less into herd immunity, but he also knows a lot about it. So we asked him to explain think about 50 years ago or 60 years ago is when herd immunity was first talked about that.

1 (3m 33s):
If you got to a certain level of of immunity in the community from vaccination that you could net no longer have epidemic outbreaks. You would no longer have an outbreak develop in the The community even if somebody from outside the community came in with an infection. Let's say measles that they could not then cause an outbreak to happen in the community, even if they were hundreds or even thousands of people that were not vaccinated it would not take off again. As long as you were above a certain percent threshold. Well since we don't have a vaccine yet how many Americans would have to get covid-19 for herd immunity to be plausible in the It states.

1 (4m 17s):
So first things first, we don't even know that having had covid-19 gives you true immunity, you know, there are several different things that may be the outcome of having prior covid-19 one is that you cannot be infected anymore that would be full immunity. The other is that you could be infected but you wouldn't get the disease again. A third is that you might get infected can't get the disease, but you could shed the virus but at a much lower level, let's say so that you're not spreading it nearly as much so those we don't have answers to those questions yet. As you know in the last few weeks we've learned of at least four cases around the world where reinfection has occurred in Hong Kong a patient is believed to be the first person to become reinfected with covid-19 and other cases in Europe are being investigated this as health officials prepare for a full flu season lurking just around the corner, but let's assume For the moment that anybody who gets covid-19 has full immunity and can no longer spread it under those circumstances the estimates for what level of infection we need to have to have herd immunity vary between sort of reasonably estimates of 47 percent to as high as maybe seventy percent.

1 (5m 36s):
So we're talking about hundreds of millions of Americans potentially, correct you you would need to have hundreds of millions. And by the way the other issue About that is that they'd have to be homogeneous Lee across the country infected. So if you had for instance a hundred million people infected in the great Northeast area, and that got them to 95% prior infection. That would do nothing to protect people in. Let's say the midsection of the country if their prior infection rate was 20% How many Americans would we? Back to perish from the disease if we had that level of infection, right?

1 (6m 23s):
So let's say that you had a hundred and fifty million Americans infected and let's imagine that the infection fatality rate across the entire populations of being around, you know point four point five percent you're starting to talk about anywhere between 600 and a million people depending on where the numbers fall out. What would that look like for American cities American states not to mention families friends destroyed lives destroyed. Yeah. Look, I think when we just count the deaths and I say just in you know, very sort of facetious manner were under estimating all the harm from this the deaths are the tip of the iceberg a small fraction of people that have serious illness and then death a lot of people are becoming sick from this.

1 (7m 16s):
And are still in recovery. Now we have no idea. What outcomes look like for this. So when I'm looking and thinking that in order to get to let's say minimum herd immunity and every Community across the country, you might need to have 200 million or more people infected and you're starting to talk about, you know, 800 thousand or a million deaths. You're also talking about at least 10 times that with very serious illnesses in recovery associated. With it. So I think it's a that's a catastrophic proposition particularly when we're only talking about the sub acute effects. We have no idea about long-term effects and has something like this ever happened before in the known history of mankind to get hurt immunity from infection.

1 (8m 6s):
Yeah, not any large-scale. There's I think one Community or one city where people have said that happened with zika, but I don't even think that officially would qualify as herd immunity. It would probably be more characterized as you know, reduce spread and endemic spread but not to this degree, but there have been countries that have publicly talked about this as a potential strategy, right? I mean Sweden maybe England, is that right? Right. So England's briefly contemplated it

3 (8m 37s):
but after models showed how badly UK hospitals would be overwhelmed in such a scenario and the potentially hundreds of thousands of deaths it would cause priorities Have shifted Sweden briefly

1 (8m 48s):
contemplated it and then really has not pursued that strategy

3 (8m 53s):
Sweden took a different tack not shutting down trusting citizens to follow social distancing on their own and putting a priority on so called herd immunity the results

1 (9m 5s):
were mixed. And right now in fact, there's a letter signed by a lot of scientists urging Israel to pursue, you know, the Sweden approach / herd immunity. So they

3 (9m 16s):
Use

1 (9m 16s):
this term, but I just don't you know, when I read what they're actually saying either. They don't know what's going on in Sweden or they are trying to you misuse this term. So the long and short of it is herd immunity is not a solution for this country or really any other to consider unless they're ready to see a significant portion of their population died a much more significant portion of their population come down with a serious long-term Health consequences and to face whatever it is.

1 (9m 56s):
Catastrophic oversaturation of hospitals and infrastructure, is that fair? Potentially it you know, I think we can manage the infrastructure of the hospitals and so on. I think the deaths are not manageable and when you're sitting there and trying to make a calculation today of do you actively encourage the infection of a large part of society and by the way infecting younger people and giving them? Them this infection may even be more consequential than some older people because they have more years to suffer potential consequences. So we just don't know but actively doing that and then on the flip side of that we're talking about having a vaccine in potentially to four or five months.

1 (10m 45s):
We have Therapeutics coming out all the time. We're learning more about this. It just seems like a failed strategy that doesn't even have an upside to it. Okay, so herd immunity is out. Even the White House is now denying its considering herd immunity as a potential path forward. So what can the United States do in the

3 (11m 15s):
meantime more

1 (11m 17s):
with? Dr. Foreman after a break on today explained? Not gonna lie went to the kitchen eat some lunch today and decided that it would be a Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream kind of lunch today and it's not an everyday thing for me, but it felt right today. It was raining for what it's worth. Then I came over here to record an ad for the show and wouldn't you know it Ben and Jerry's of the folder for today not the ice cream though a podcast.

1 (11m 60s):
It's called who we are. It's a new podcast by Ben & Jerry's and produced by Vox.

3 (12m 6s):
Creative Vox creative is like

1 (12m 7s):
VOX media has ADD arm, but they also make podcasts like this one. It's hosted by ACLU legal director Jeffrey Robinson and the Peabody award-winning journalist Carvel Wallace who we are Combs through the complicated history of these United States to understand how we got here and how we can all move towards a better future. They're going to be looking at stuff like the racial wealth Gap like black maternal mortality and and much more at the end of each episode. Who we are offers opportunities for how you can be a part of much-needed progress in this country who we are Launches on September 15th and airs every Tuesday you can listen And subscribe wherever you do those things and maybe you can find some ice cream in the

3 (12m 50s):
freezer. Google's free tools are designed to help support millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working

1 (13m 3s):
with Google tools small businesses are staying connected to their customers by updating their business hours switching to curbside pickup activating online booking and more and if you want to support them, there are ways to help whether you're searching for

3 (13m 17s):
restaurants salons bookstores Jim's boutiques or any other business near you show your support by ordering takeout, right?

1 (13m 26s):
Review buying a gift card

3 (13m 28s):
or making a donation all With a Little Help from Google.

1 (13m 38s):
Okay, dr. Foreman we've established that herd immunity is certainly an option albeit one where a ton of people die or get sick for the rest of their lives. So not a great one. Then there's the vaccine. What do we have? In the meantime? We're not doing great on contact tracing is it testing is testing our one way to Stave off even more of a disaster? Yeah. There's just no question that the testing works like we've seen it work in so many places within without contact. We know that if you can test and isolate early enough, if you can remove people from circulation when they're at their highest likelihood of spreading this we can effectively reduce spread in the same way that herd immunity is supposed to allow us to reduce spreads that outbreaks can no longer occur.

1 (14m 26s):
It's not to say that nobody gets infected anymore. It's the say that we hold the numbers down dramatically because we're no longer allowing it to spread so quickly and we could stand to get a lot better at Sting. Yeah, I've only you know gone and gotten the nasal swab test once and it took several days to get results. What's the promise of Rapid testing looking like the rapid tests that were talking about are things that for very very low cost will have perhaps a slightly reduced sensitivity, perhaps the significantly reduced sensitivity so that they'll have a lot of false negatives meaning that people we told there- when in fact they're infected that those tests Give you results in 15 to 45 minutes typically and there's all different types of tests out there right now and they're still being evaluated but I believe you know over the next eight weeks.

1 (15m 20s):
We're going to start to see more and more of these

3 (15m 22s):
Abbott Labs will double its

1 (15m 24s):
main Workforce by starting to produce a

3 (15m 26s):
rapid and inexpensive coronavirus test.

1 (15m 30s):
Obviously, the Abbott announcement was probably you know, the biggest signal that this is happening. Now, the company will produce a

3 (15m 37s):
$5 Test that purports to give you results in 15

1 (15m 41s):
minutes. So when you hear about, you know, rapid testing being available at some party in the Hamptons or at the white house or at the NBA bubble and in Disney World, it isn't the kind of Rapid testing that we're talking about with Abbott and that's going to be coming soon. Yeah, these are these are typically much quicker. They're on a single swab. They're more akin to what pregnancy tests look like than they are to the nasal swab that you and I have had as a Or coronavirus test and how do they differ in terms of accuracy? If at all so the word on the street is that their sensitivity is much lower but their specificity is still very high meaning that we'd have a lot of false negatives.

1 (16m 24s):
I know of some manufacturers that are claiming that their sensitivity is on par with PCR tests the typical nasal swab which we consider to be sort of the gold standard at this point, but Even if they are much less sensitive remember that the goal here is not to be a hundred percent certain that someone's not infected as they might want to be around. The president. The goal here is to take as many people as possible at a circulation before they can infect people. So if that a five people who are currently infected and potentially spreading I can take three of them at a circulation. I've had an enormous impact on the spread of this disease and it looks like we'll have rapid test.

1 (17m 8s):
Thing that works to at least a high level before we have anything resembling a vaccine. That's right. And certainly we could have done it even faster if we would have made this a priority but we didn't you know to the best of my knowledge there has been some funding for the development of testing but certainly not on the scale of you know, quote operation warp speed and certainly not with the same intensity. So I think most of the entrepreneurs that have moved into this Market have done so on. Their own without necessarily the type of support that could have made this happen much more quickly. And that was a real missed opportunity. It sounds like yeah, look, I think that the lack of attention to testing from the beginning has been probably the biggest fatal mistake from day one.

1 (17m 57s):
We didn't set up testing properly. We made mistakes on that scale. Then we could have scaled up traditional testing we weren't able to and then when it comes to this type of Rapid testing. It is not been the highest priority of our leaders for all the people who can't wait to return to whatever version of normalcy they've sacrificed. I wonder do you think rapid testing will be enough at least in the United States to get them to that place once we have enough of it available. That's my hope. I mean, I don't you know, I think every step along the way anytime we're talking about loosening our current restrictions.

1 (18m 40s):
We need to figure out how do you counter balance that how do you prevent it from leading to Greater spread? So testing has always been from the first time I wrote about this in February to now has always been the way out of this because if you can ramp up testing you can also relax other things you may be able to allow people to go into a less crowded. But still movie theater, he may be able to allow people to be in a less crowded but still, you know filled indoor restaurant you might be able to do sporting events. Again, there's so many things that you could imagine doing if you have something to counterbalance it I would say that of all the things that I've Failed at in the last six or seven months.

1 (19m 28s):
The one that I think is my biggest failing is how naive I've been I was absolutely certain when vice president Pence said that we're going to have those test kits out that we were going to have them. I was absolutely certain even though I don't necessarily believe from other things that when the president said if you want to test you'll be able to have a test. So I think it's unfair for me to continue to be naive and say I believe this but I've been optimistic Because talking to people in this field about what they're doing and what they're innovating with. I have optimism in entrepreneurs and I think entrepreneurs are telling me that by November we're going to have more

3 (20m 9s):
rapid testing available. I hope it scales up as fast

1 (20m 11s):
as as I'm saying, but I'm pretty sure we're going to have substantially more than we do today. Dr. Howard Foreman is a professor of Public Health at Yale University. I'm Sean Rama's

3 (20m 32s):
firm. This is today

2 (20m 33s):
explained.

1 (20m 57s):
Hi, I'm Avery troubleman and I'm the new host of the cut podcast from New York Magazine and the VOX media podcast

3 (21m 3s):
Network every Wednesday the cut editorial team and I will explore surprising provocative ideas about style self

1 (21m 14s):
culture and Power

3 (21m 16s):
in our first episode. We're looking at what it

1 (21m 18s):
means to be optimistic in 2020.

3 (21m 21s):
You can listen And subscribe to the cut now on Apple podcast or wherever you listen. Hi, I'm tech journalist. Kara Swisher. No, man, why you Professor Scott Galloway every week on the pivot podcast. We dig into the biggest stories in business tax and politics help. You understand what they actually mean for our future. We've been named the thought leadership podcast by add wake and the best business podcast of the Year by the Webbie's we're also known for making big predictions mostly Scott about the economy and occasionally, they come true. It's got give us a quick prediction right now. Okay, here's my prediction. This show will make you smarter.

3 (22m 2s):
This are you will believe you're smarter. This is like taking Edibles. You're going to think you're smart, even though you're not but it doesn't matter if you think you're smart. Are you not you are it's perception not reality. We obviously don't stick to the script which is why you should listen every Tuesday and Friday on Apple podcasts or wherever you get your podcast.