0 (1s):
The Supreme Court is back in session, and Fox's Supreme Court correspondent Ian Mil Heiser says This session has the potential to be even more consequential than the last one. But I'm all really, Ian, do you remember the last Supreme Court session? Women

1 (19s):
Are not free anywhere then. Women are not free. This ruling was illegitimate. It must not be accepted, and people in this country need to stand up now.

2 (29s):
Get out there. Out there,

0 (34s):
The one where they overturned Roe v. Wade, the one where they severely restricted the epa, the one where they said people can bring their guns almost anywhere. This session could be more consequential than that one. And he was all,

3 (52s):
Yep. Yeah, exactly.

0 (55s):
That's coming up on today. Explain.

5 (1m 2s):
There's a big new gay movie out and one of its stars says when you're making a gay movie that you want straight people to watch you tread carefully.

6 (1m 11s):
Are you familiar with the concept of Shonda Short? Sam,

5 (1m 16s):
Tell me all about that.

6 (1m 18s):
It's a Yiddish phrase and it's basically means you're embarrassing us. In front of the Gentiles.

5 (1m 23s):
We unpack the new Romcom Bros on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast

7 (1m 34s):
You're listening to today explains this is, is it today? Explain or should I explains?

0 (1m 39s):
Explain death,

7 (1m 40s):
Explain duck

0 (1m 41s):
In Mill Heiser. True or false? You have a piece up on box.com right now arguing that the Supreme Court's new term could be even more consequential than it's last.

3 (1m 51s):
I do. This is the truth.

0 (1m 53s):
This is the truth. How would earth could that be, Ian? What are they gonna undo now like Bush v Gore?

3 (1m 59s):
I mean, these guys are just getting started. You know, they've got lifetime appointments. I think that last term was when they were checking off a lot of the issues that they viewed as really high priority this term. They could potentially go after democracy and without the right to vote, without the right to choose your own leaders, you don't have anything. You know, you can't keep the right not to face discrimination if you can't keep electing lawmakers who believe in anti-discrimination. So this is potentially the ballgame. They are taking these massive democracy cases this term, and at least in the worst case scenario for this term, I think you could wind up with a nation where it will be very, very hard for the public to choose their own leaders.

0 (2m 42s):
Okay, You make a compelling argument. I'm not fully convinced yet, because unlike you, I don't know what's coming up this term on the docket. Let's talk about it. Which cases could threaten American democracy?

3 (2m 56s):
So the case that keeps me up at night is a case called Mor v Harper. When I originally wrote up this case, I described it as the biggest threat to US democracy since the January 6th attack. It deals with something called the independent state legislature doctrine, which is a terrible phrase that no one can remember. The

0 (3m 17s):
Independent state legislature doctrine.

3 (3m 20s):
Yes. It just rolls off the tongue.

0 (3m 23s):
Maybe not as tip of the tongue as abortion.

3 (3m 26s):
Exactly. So the Constitution says that the rules for federal elections, for congressional elections, for presidential elections shall be set by state legislatures. And the question is, what is the word legislature mean? The Supreme Court's answered that question. They've answered that question many times over the course of the last more than a hundred years. And what they've said is that the legislature in this context bes whoever has the legislative power, which is the power to make walls. So in some states, you can make a law through a ballot initiative, and if the state wants to make an election law through a ballot initiative, that's fine. In some states, the governor can veto laws, and if the governor veto's an election law, that's fine.

3 (4m 8s):
That's how the rules have always worked. The state constitution might say that there's a right to vote protected by the state constitution or right to be free of gerrymandering protected by the state constitution. State Supreme Court can enforce that. That's fine. That is how things have always worked.

0 (4m 23s):
That's the status quo right now in America.

3 (4m 25s):
That is the status quo. What this case wants to do is it was to essentially eliminate the separation of powers in every state and concentrate all the power over elections into the House and Senate in that state. Take a state like North Carolina, there's a big fight about gerrymandering going on in North Carolina. You've got a Republican state legislature, you've got a Democratic Supreme Court. So right now the Democratic Supreme Court can prevent that Republican state legislature from drawing egregiously gerrymandered maps. What this case wants to say is, nope, the state Supreme Court isn't allowed to enforce the state constitution, whatever that Republican legislature wants.

3 (5m 12s):
That's fine. So if you accept the theory in this case, it would mean that, say the Republican legislature in Wisconsin, in Pennsylvania, in Michigan, in Arizona could write a law saying this state's electoral votes shall go to Donald Trump and there would be absolutely nothing anyone could do about it. And if you have those four states lined up in the Republican column, it's basically impossible for a Democrat to win the presidency.

0 (5m 40s):
Now we should point out that on its face, having state legislatures control elections could sound democratic to some because the people vote for the state legislature. But you're saying because state legislatures are so gerrymandered at this point, it is anti-democratic.

3 (6m 0s):
Well, what I'm saying is that in most states, the way that the law making process works is the same way it works at the federal level. You have the, the state House, the state Senate, they pass a bill, the governor can veto the bill, and then if the governor signs the bill, it can't violate the constitution. So if the state constitution says there's a right to vote, if the state constitution says there's a right to be free of gerrymandering, or if the state constitution for that matter says there will be an election to determine who wins the electoral votes. The way things work now is that that state constitution wins. Like you know, the legislature can't pass a bill that violates the state constitution. This case potentially eliminates every single voting rights protection in every state constitution throughout the country.

3 (6m 45s):
And like I said, in the worst case scenario, it could allow a world where say, Michigan's Republican legislature says, Well, we think our guy could lose, so we're just gonna give him our electoral votes.

0 (6m 56s):
What's the story behind this case? Why is anyone lobbying for this to begin with?

3 (7m 0s):
The weird story here is that this comes out of Bush feed Gore, huh?

8 (7m 6s):
An important win for Vice President Al Gore. NBC news projects that he wins the 25 electoral votes in the state of Florida.

3 (7m 14s):
In Bush feed Gore, there's a recount of Florida's races.

8 (7m 18s):
So networks give us the networks, take it away. NBC News is now taking Florida out of Vice President Gore's column.

3 (7m 26s):
Bush was on top. So Bush wanted the recount to stop because when you're on top, you don't want anything to happen to change it. Right? Gore wanted some counties to be recounted. There's a big fight over it. There were state supreme court fight.

9 (7m 40s):
We still do not know the outcome of yesterday's vote. And I realize that this is an extraordinary moment for our democracy.

10 (7m 48s):
The election was close, but tonight after count a recount and yet another manual recount, Secretary Chaney and I are honored and humbled to have won the state of Florida.

3 (7m 59s):
And one of the arguments that Bush's legal team made a team, I will note, that included Chief Justice Roberts and Justices Brett Kavanaugh, Amy Coney Barrett. Wow.

0 (8m 10s):
Dream team.

3 (8m 11s):
Yeah, exactly. One of the arguments that they made was that the Florida Supreme Court isn't allowed to hand down decisions that benefit Al Gore because this Florida Supreme Court is at the state legislature and only the state legislature is able to decide how elections are ro.

11 (8m 27s):
Justice Kennedy, the Constitution specifically vested the authority to determine the manner of the appointment of the electors in state legislatures.

3 (8m 37s):
First of all, that's incoherent because sometimes you know, laws are ambiguous or isn't clear how to read a law or how it should apply to a particular party, and you need someone to tell you who it applies to. That body is the state Supreme Court. That's what state Supreme Courts are there for. But this was an argument that came out of Bush v Gore. Several of the current justices were part of that team, and this terrible argument, they came up for this individual moment in history now has a lot of support on the Supreme Court because it was something that the Republican party cared a lot about. In two, 2004, members of the court have endorsed this theory. Oddly enough, Amy Coney Barrett, because she hasn't been on the court very long, hasn't yet endorsed it as a justice.

3 (9m 23s):
So basically the hopes for democracy, Hang on. Amy Coney Barrett, this former member of George w Bush's legal team,

4 (9m 37s):
More

0 (9m 37s):
With Fox's Supreme Court correspondent and Millhiser in a minute.

Canva (9m 47s):
Today's show is sponsored by Canva, a company that believes that branding is its own language. Take our show for example, when you go to listen on whatever podcast app you use, you see our logo, It's yellow and black. It's the same color as a bunch of other Vox podcasts. Whether it's our show or unexplainable or the weeds, certainly you get it that you are listening to a Vox show. Okay? If you want to make visuals for your company that look consistent in this way, also professional and beautiful. Canva for Teams wants to help you. You can get access to endless templates and fonts for video presentations, visual assets and websites. And you can add your brand's, logos, fonts, and team colors to everything that you make. Plus Canva for Teams can also help you streamline your social media content. You can plan, create, and share directly to all of your channels from one place. And even schedule posts ahead of time all inside Canva. For teams right now, you can get a free 45 day extended trial when you go to canva.me/explained, that's c a me slash explained for a free 45 day extended trial. canva.me/explained

Shopify (10m 58s):
Support For the Char Day comes from Shopify. It's an all-in-one commerce platform that can help start, run and grow your business. They wanna make it easy for you to sell to anyone from anywhere, no matter what you're selling. Be it, I don't know, padding for a home studio. That's just what I'm looking at right now. Or or flannel jackets, which I'm also looking at, or a poster of Beethoven. But it says Old Beethoven instead of Beethoven in like the style of that Shepherd Fairy artwork, The the Obey thing. I think that's a Shepherd Fair. Anyway, that's just what's in my closet. Imagine all the things you can sell and then sell them on Shopify. They got 24 7 support. They got your back every step of the way. They say you can sign up for a free trial at shopify.com/explain. You can go to shopify.com/explain to start selling online today. If you were wondering if you want an uppercase or lowercase shopify.com/explained, go lowercase shopify.com/explained

13 (12m 6s):
Oh oh. Hey, thank you. Dave

0 (12m 19s):
Explained today, explained back with Ian Mill Heiser who writes about the Supreme Court here at Vox. He admitted that an upcoming case called Moore v Harper keeps him up at night. But that isn't the only one this term that could reshape American democracy.

3 (12m 34s):
So the other, it's called Merrill v Milligan. This is a case about Alabama's congressional map in Alabama. About 27% of state is African American according to the most recent census numbers. But the state drew a map where blacks will only be represented by 14% of the congressional delegation. So black Alabamans will have about half as much representation as you would expect.

0 (13m 6s):
Sounds like some, some classic gerrymandering. It it looks pretty

3 (13m 10s):
Hanky. And and, and a panel that included two Trump judges said, Yeah, this is a racial gerrymandering. You can't do this. Now Alabama does have some factual arguments dealing with how close the black residents of Alabama live together. Like they, they do have some plausible arguments they could make in this case that they could say, Well, under existing law this, this doesn't qualify as a racial gerrymandering. But under their brief, like that's not the thrust of their argument. Their thrust of the argument is, No, we should destroy the provisions of the Voting Rights Act, which prevent racial gerrymanders. And bear in mind as well that the Supreme Court has already said in a case called Roo that the federal courts may do nothing about partisan gerrymandering

14 (13m 54s):
For these reasons and others set forth. In our opinion, we conclude that partisan gerrymandering claims present political questions beyond the reach of the federal courts.

3 (14m 5s):
If they'll also do nothing about racial gerrymanders, then that means that there's just no safeguards against gerrymandering

0 (14m 12s):
And the Voting Rights Act has already been somewhat neutered.

3 (14m 17s):
Yeah, there's been three big decisions, Shelby County, Abbott, v Perez, and Beov, which v, D and C, all of which have taken extraordinarily deep cons. Shelby County deactivated what's called the pre-clearance regime. This is the regime where states with the history of racism had to get their voting rules basically spot checked by officials in Washington DC to make sure they didn't engage in any kind of race discrimination. That is pretty much gone after Shelby County.

14 (14m 49s):
Any racial discrimination in voting is too much. But our country has changed in the past 50 years, and therefore we have no choice but defined that it violates the constitution.

3 (14m 59s):
The court has weakened the safeguards against voting laws that are enacted with racist intent. In the Abbott case, in the Barnovich case, they eliminated many of the protections against laws which have racist effect.

15 (15m 13s):
I think the key conceptual point here to understand is that Arizona has not denied anyone any voting opportunity of any kind.

16 (15m 22s):
When an eligible voter casts a ballot and that ballot is discarded, rather than counted that voter has been denied the right to vote,

3 (15m 29s):
This lawsuit seeks to go after the interpretation of the voting right act, that it prevents racial gerrymanders. And at some point we don't really have any safeguards against racism in our elections at all.

0 (15m 47s):
Ian, we've talked about the cases that could fundamentally alter our democracy. There's also some big cases on the docket that you write about in your piece that will affect policy.

3 (16m 0s):
In my piece, I wrote about nine cases, and so we probably don't have time to go into all nine of them, but like that gives you a sense of how ambitious the court is thinking this term. So let's do a quick lightning round Today. The Supreme Court heard oral arguments in a case called SACE v epa. This is a case about essentially whether the federal law prohibiting water pollution applies to certain wetlands creek streams, drainage ditches, things that run into major bodies of water, but aren't necessarily themselves majored bodies of water. And obviously, if I jump a bunch of poison into a stream that runs into a river that supplies a city's water supply, you know, I don't think I need to explain to folks why that's bad.

3 (16m 46s):
There's a case called Halon V Bracket. This is a big, big case dealing with indigenous culture and whether or not federal government is allowed to take certain steps to rectify the cultural genocide that's been directed towards native cultures in the United States in the past. There is the latest volume in this seemingly ongoing saga about whether or not religious conservatives are exempt from walls prohibiting discrimination against L G B T people. This case involves a website designer, it's technically a free speech case. They are claiming that they have a right to produce wedding websites only for straight couples and not for same sex couple.

17 (17m 30s):
You don't need that gay crap.

3 (17m 32s):
There is a case called United States v Texas. This is about whether or not the Biden administration has effective command and control over ice, the Immigration Enforcement Agency. And then there's this case that really keeps me up at night. Every civil rights lawyer I know is freaking out about it called Health and Hospital Corporation of Marion County via Toski. So there's all sorts of federal welfare programs, the most important of which is Medicaid that essentially say like states, if you wanna run a healthcare program for poor people, the federal government will give you a ton of money to do it with. But if they take the money, there are certain rules, you know, certain people have to be covered.

3 (18m 13s):
There should be a certain quality of tear in facilities that take Medicaid. This lawsuit could potentially render the law saying that nursing homes aren't allowed to drug your mother or father along with huge swaths of other laws unenforceable. So it's a really big deal. Two cases, actually, I think a lot of people are paying a close attention to, are a case out of Harvard and a case out the University of North Carolina that seek to eliminate affirmative action in college admissions.

0 (18m 43s):
I think we've maybe spoken about some of these on the show before.

3 (18m 45s):
Yeah. So this is Students for Fair Admission, v Harvard and students for fair admission, v unc. And first of all, this group's students for fair admission is mostly a front group for a rich white guy named Ed Bloom. Like, you know, he's the, the big force behind these organizations. He would tell you

18 (19m 7s):
My goal was through the courts to restore the original vision of the Civil rights movement. And that vision, as I grew up with it, was that your race and your ethnicity should not be a factor that is used to help you in some way or to harm you in some way.

3 (19m 28s):
But there's a pattern. He has funded two lawsuits going after the Voting Rights Act. This is the second lawsuit that he's funded going after affirmative action in universities. He was the driving force behind a lawsuit that sought to reduce the power of predominantly Latino immigrant communities in Texas and to increase the power of white communities in the Congress and the state legislature. So like the pattern, when you look at the sorts of cases that he backs is, is is pretty clear.

0 (20m 5s):
And if I remember correctly, he's using Asian-American students here to make the case that they're being discriminated against by affirmative action.

3 (20m 14s):
That's right. It's especially true in the Harvard case,

19 (20m 18s):
Based on my understanding. I think the fact that I'm Asian-American plays a pretty big factor into why I was rejected.

3 (20m 24s):
If you are the most spectacular high school student on the planet, you have a chance of getting it to Harvard like that. You know, they receive so many applications that they have to sort people somehow. And what the Supreme Court said in the GR case, this is a case from 2003, is

20 (20m 41s):
The educational benefits that flow from student body diversity are substantiated by numerous expert studies and reports showing that such diversity promotes learning and better prepares students for an increasingly heterogeneous workforce, for responsible citizenship and for the legal profession.

3 (21m 3s):
And so at Harvard, like no one's getting into Harvard who isn't qualified, no one's getting in who doesn't have spectacular qualifications, But if they've got one seat left and it comes down between a white applicant and a black applicant, or often comes down between an Asian applicant and a Latino applicant, if, you know, white people are more represented in the, in the admitted students than black people are, or if Asian people are more represented than Latinos are, Harvard will sometimes say, Well, let's give it to the student who will add more racial diversity to this incoming class. That's something they're allowed to do under gr what these cases, the Harvard UNC case as the Supreme Court to do is essentially overrule gr.

0 (21m 49s):
So if the Supreme Court undo affirmative action in college admissions, does that have some standing on like affirmative action large in the United States?

3 (21m 59s):
I mean, the answer is probably, you know, this case doesn't ask the question, you know, can an employer decide that they wanna take steps for a more diverse workplace? But the Republican party's position, you know, the position of conservative judges for as far back as I can remember on issues of affirmative action has a, has been like the so-called colorblind theory. You know, you know, the, the, the notion that a law that gives an advantage to a minority is just as bad as a law that gives an advantage to a white person and they all must be struck down. So I think it's very unlikely that the Supreme Court's gonna stop at university admission.

0 (22m 37s):
Okay. So a range of issues coming up on this docket at water pollution, freedom of religion, Native Americans, Medicaid, a lot of stuff. But what occurs to me, Ian, is with the Dobbs decision, what, what, what made it so hard to swallow for most of the country was the fact that the Supreme Court is, is now wildly out of step with most of the country. Where does most of the country land on, on Medicaid or, or affirmative action, for example. I mean, I I wonder if these issues even have as much polling as we certainly do on abortion. So

3 (23m 11s):
The, the, the short answer is it depends a lot on, you know, the, on the particular issues. I think on most of these issues left leading people have an advantage in popularity on some of them, particularly affirmative action. I think that right, people have an advantage. But the Supreme Court has, has fairly consistently showed, I mean, we saw this in the Dobbs with the Dobbs decision last term. They were very explicit about this, that they don't care about public opinion. They, they, you know, and if they behave the way that they did in the last term, they will hand down consistently conservative decision after conservative decision, regardless of whether those decisions are very unpopular.

0 (23m 50s):
I guess this is what makes it kind of hard to determine whether this, this term will be more consequential in the last, because in the last term, you had this blatant disregard of public opinion on gun control, on abortion, of course. And here it almost feels like you could have this more insidious creep on democracy and this host of policies that you just told us about. And I don't know, to me it feels like people might not notice as much because these aren't the big ticket items. This isn't abortion and this isn't the second amendment. Yeah,

3 (24m 26s):
No, I, I think that's a good point. I mean, when Roe v Wade was struck down like almost the next day, people were being impacted by it in very dramatic ways. I mean, you, you did have clinics the same day, which suddenly had to stop performing abortions. If the Supreme Court abolishes democracy, like the next day Joe Biden is still gonna be president, he's still gonna get to fill out his term. You know, no matter what happens in Mor v Harper, there will still be something that looks like an election in 2024. The question is whether that election follows the sorts of rules where it is possible for either party to win, whether it is a fair election, or whether you have a system that you know is increasingly more and more rigged so that only one party can prevail.

3 (25m 19s):
The court has called the right to vote preservative of all rights. You know, if you can't choose the people who make the laws, that it doesn't matter what constitutional rights that you have, it doesn't matter what, what, what statutory rights you have, because you're gonna be governed by people who don't have your best interest in mind. The takeaway I want to leave folks with is that the potential is here to fundamentally alter the relationship between every American and their own government.

0 (25m 49s):
Ian Mill Heiser, you can read much more from him about the court@vox.com. Our program today was produced Bys Petros, edited by Amina Alati, engineered by a theme, Shapiro and Paul Robert Mosey and fact checked by Victoria Chamberlain and Laura Bullard. I'm Sean Ram firm, this is today explained.