0 (0s):
There's a big, huge cheating scandal in professional sports right

1 (4s):
Now, Now to a huge scandal in the world of professional chess.

0 (8s):
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Is chess even a sport?

2 (11s):
It depends who you ask. Some might call it a game. Some might call it a sport. I think the people who think it's a sport point to things like the world championship match, where the games can last hours upon hours and players actually even physically train to prepare for that type of grueling affair,

0 (30s):
Whatever. Chess is one of the best players to ever sit behind. Ponds just got beaten by a 19 year old. Everyone seems to think is a punk. And now that 19 year old is suing that chess Grand Master for

3 (43s):
$100 million.

0 (48s):
Let's today explain. Today explained Sean Ramas from here with Andrew Beaten, who writes about sports for the Wall Street Journal, which means he also writes about chess, which means lately he's been spending a lot of time covering the most dramatic cheating scandal to ever hit the board.

2 (1m 21s):
All of this has produced not just a bombshell that has turned chessboards everywhere, upside down. It's also leading to this introspective moment for the game of chess where we've known for a while now that computers are better than humans at the game of chess. And that has given rise the idea that if someone found a way to do so, they could cheat. And there's this bigger question moving over the game. Now, is this being policed rigorously enough? Magnus Carlson has been the golden boy of chess for a while now. He's a five time world champion, the highest rated player ever, and he's the type of person whose fame and celebrity has transcended chess.

5 (2m 9s):
He's appeared as a guest on The Simpsons. He has a fashion contracts, he's friends with Hollywood A-listers. This will

2 (2m 16s):
Cement. And then on the other hand, you have Hans Neman. He is a teenage American. He's 19 now who ha has rapidly risen in the world rankings. He has a reputation of being brash.

6 (2m 29s):
I think he's just so demoralized because he's losing to such an idiot like me. You know, it's just the, it must be embarrassing for the world champion to lose to me. I feel bad for him.

2 (2m 38s):
He has this big curly mop of brown hair and then all of a sudden his world was upended by an accusation from none other than the number one player in the world. Magnus Carlson.

1 (2m 51s):
Now to a huge scandal in the world of professional chess. It centers around world chess champion Magnus Carson, who has for the, the first time openly accused fellow player, 19 year old hands neiman of cheating

2 (3m 12s):
At a prestigious tournament in St. Louis. In early September, Neiman beat Carlson that ended a 53 match unbeaten streak in classical chess for Carlson and more stunningly, Neiman was playing with the black pieces, which is a considerable disadvantage.

7 (3m 31s):
White has the advantage since it always has the first move, It always has the advantage.

2 (3m 36s):
Even more fascinating than what happened in the game was what happened shortly afterward, which was when Carlson resigned from the tournament abruptly

8 (3m 46s):
Breaking news, a tweet from the world chess champion Magnus Carlson. Yeah, he has withdrawn

9 (3m 53s):
Verbatim.

8 (3m 53s):
Let that for Alejandro. What was the tweet exactly? If you please,

9 (3m 58s):
I've withdrawn from the tournament. I've always enjoyed playing in the at St. Louis Chess Club and hoped to be back in the future. That is what the world champion has tweeted, so that this

2 (4m 10s):
Was completely unprecedented from Agnes Carlson. He does not have a reputation as a sore loser. He had never withdrawn entirely from a tournament such as this. And he didn't say anything officially accusing Neiman of cheating at the time. But he tweeted a video of the famous, sleek, crotchety soccer manager, Jose Marino, where Marino says, I

10 (4m 35s):
Prefer really not to, not to speak. If I speak, I am in in big trouble, in big trouble, and I don't want to be in big trouble.

2 (4m 43s):
And the implication for Marino back when he said that was that he got jobbed by the refs in a soccer game and he'd be stepping out of line if he officially said that out loud. The chess world was quick to read the tea leaves about Carlson's implication. It didn't take long for the commentators, the streamers, anybody who pays attention to chess to interpret Carlson's withdrawal as an act of protest. And on the one hand, you started having people uncover evidence that Neiman had seemingly cheated in online games in the past.

11 (5m 21s):
For five turns in a row, Hans played better. Hans played better than Bobby Fisher when he won 20 games in a row on his path, becoming the world champion. Wow, okay. Wow.

2 (5m 31s):
In 2020, he gets banned by chess.com for cheating. Afterward, he makes a rise in over the board chess. And he shot up so much in his rating and world ranking that it was basically unprecedented That left people kind of wrestling with a question of either he has made this incredibly remarkable run to, to incredible skill, or is part of that run because maybe he got some illegal assistance. Like

12 (6m 2s):
It's either the Game of a Genius, this one or, or something fishy. I mean it's, it's one of the two.

2 (6m 8s):
But on the other hand, there is definite scrutiny of Carlson with people saying, Is it unfair to make this type of very serious allegation without presenting any evidence?

13 (6m 19s):
You know, everything that people have said about Hans Neiman on the internet and all you people that are commenting on this that don't know, even, you know, any of the people involved or any of the coaches or any of the trainers or any of the people that have been involved with these two guys in their chest development, you, you really don't know what you're talking about. And this is all just a lot of rumoring.

2 (6m 38s):
I mean, I think everybody was trying to figure out how someone might cheat because cheating online, it's not that difficult. I mean, your cell phone that you're holding right now, or any computer can access various apps or websites that can deliver someone the best moves, moves that would beat the best players in the world. But cheating in person requires a little bit more. Spycraft

14 (7m 3s):
Suspicions were raised when Georgian gay nigga started making regular trips to the toilet that discovered that he was using his smartphone to log into a chess analysis app while the phone had been hidden in the toilet.

2 (7m 15s):
And beyond that, pretty much any spy scheme you could think of in theory could be possible because when you're at that level of chess, like these players are, they don't need to be knocked on the head and told directly every move to make, They simply need a nudge in the right direction on a couple critical moves in the game. And that would be enough to tilt the balances. So you can imagine something like, what if you had an accomplice who is using one of the computers and you have a buzzer in your shoe? One buzz means move your look. Two buzzes means move your queen. There's all sorts of systems you could devise,

0 (7m 57s):
And this is how anal beads enters the

15 (7m 59s):
Chat. Fans speculate, Neiman had an accomplice who was watching the game, being broadcast, live online and consulting an AI chess program, then using wireless anal beads that vibrate to Neiman the correct moves.

2 (8m 15s):
I mean, you, you have pretty much everybody, including Elon Musk, weighing in on wild unsubstantiated theories. And unfortunately one of the things that caught on without evidence was could someone cheat using anal beads? Which is not a sentence you thought would be ever said in connection with chess ever before.

15 (8m 37s):
I know it's unlikely, but it would explain his unique style of play. Night two, King seven,

0 (8m 44s):
How does Neiman respond to the chess world and various fandoms alleging that he cheated and I guess even alleging that he may have done something involving anal beads.

2 (8m 55s):
So at this tournament in St. Louis, which has been completely upended, the drama is consuming all of it. You have players saying they can't sleep. With all the chaos going on during a post-game interview, Neiman eventually defends himself and addresses the rumors. And in this fiery impassioned defense, Neiman says, Yes, he has cheated online in the past. And he chalked them up to youthful indiscretions as a 12 year old and 16 year old and said,

6 (9m 28s):
I was living alone in New York City. I was to peak at the pandemic. And at that, I've been financially independent since I was 16 years old. I left my family and I was living alone at 16. I had rent to pay and I wanted to, and I, and I was willing to do anything to grow my stream. So of course I made a childish mistake and I will have to live with that.

2 (9m 45s):
But he said he has never cheated and over the board chess and called out Carlson for calling him out

6 (9m 52s):
To see my absolute hero try to, to, to target, try to ruin our reputation, ruin my chess career, and to do it in such a a frivolous way is really, really disappointing.

2 (10m 10s):
A few things happened next. A few weeks later they were in another tournament together. This tournament was an online tournament. And eventually when their games against each other came up, Neiman made the first move, then Carlson moved, then Neiman moved, then Carlson just resigns.

16 (10m 28s):
What happened? That's it.

17 (10m 32s):
We're gonna try and get an update on this. Magnus Carlson just resigned, got up and left, switched off his camera,

4 (10m 44s):
And

17 (10m 44s):
That's all we know right now.

2 (10m 46s):
Carlson then still went on to win the tournament anyway, but it was yet another act that indicated he was specifically refusing to play with Hans Neman. And shortly after that tournament finished was when Carlson put out a statement saying, he believes that Neiman has cheated more often and more than he has admitted. And he more broadly says that the chess world needs to take the idea of cheating more seriously.

0 (11m 17s):
So there's a controversy, no one ever really figures out of anyone who's cheating, but there's a lot of allegations. Is that the end of the story?

2 (11m 26s):
It's definitely not the end of the story because one of the big questions that has loomed over all of this is was Hans Neiman being honest about the extent of his online cheating in the past. And we reported on an investigation by chess.com that found that Neiman had cheated more and more recently than he had admitted to. It said that he ch likely cheated in over a hundred games online. That includes other events with prize money. And that is why they banned him. And that includes when he was a 17 year old. So it was more recently than Hans Neiman had said.

2 (12m 7s):
And that was really explosive because now you don't just have somebody random seemingly being accused of cheating. It's somebody who you know now has cheated in the past. And what that investigation showed was they were saying he wasn't being forthright about the extent of his cheating, but at the end of the day, it says there's no evidence yet that Neiman has cheated in person or specifically in that game against Carlson. At the same time, right now, PDay, the international governing body of chess, is conducting its own investigation into the Neiman Carlson affair. And I think we'll all be very interested to see what that probe finds.

0 (12m 49s):
And in the meantime, his reputation is essentially tarnished. What's he doing about that?

2 (12m 56s):
Well, Neiman filed a lawsuit against chess.com against Magnus Carlson and various other high profile figures saying they defamed him and that Neiman denies cheating as much as chess.com says he did. This lawsuit is demanding a hundred million. I mean, they're claiming that he's been defamed, They're all in cahoots together. chess.com is buying Magna's app play Magnus for over 80 million. And it's claiming that is this giant conspiracy to take down Hans Neman. But one of the things that we are all gonna be interested in watching is how seriously the courts take his claims.

2 (13m 38s):
You know, obviously it gets a lot of publicity when someone sues some high profile people for a lot of money, but the figures involved are probably pretty confident that they can beat this.

0 (13m 49s):
And do you get any sense of, of what this controversy means for the future of this sport? It feels like it's dredged up a lot of things that people were happier to not talk about before.

2 (14m 1s):
I think the future of the sport is gonna be different forever because of this. I was talking with one grand master who told me that cheating in chess was a ticking time bomb. Basically what happened here is that Karlsen let the fuse

19 (14m 19s):
May 3rd, 1997, the ultimate test of man versus

2 (14m 24s):
Machine. You know, there was the days in the 1990s where Gary Casper was playing against the computer. Deep blue

18 (14m 35s):
After the most C4 has resigned.

2 (14m 39s):
Well, for a long time the answer has been machine at this point. And these days it doesn't require a super computer to run the calculations. Any smartphone, any computer can just pull up a website that can deliver you the moves that would beat even the best player in the world. Magnus Carlson, he would lose to a computer

0 (15m 2s):
That was Andrew beaten from the Wall Street Journal. When we're back on today, explain A chess master weighs in on his game's Biggest cheating scandal.

The Lost Debate (15m 16s):
Support for today's show comes from another show. This one is called The Lost Debate. Things are polarized right now. You may have heard that on our show on something EZ Recline made or wrote perhaps. But the strength of a given knee jerk take in such a polarized ecosystem tends to blot out more nuanced arguments. And the lost debate wants to offer something more considered. The Lost Debate is a program for folks who want to engage with ideas from the entire spectrum, all the way to the left, all the way to the right. Maybe some of this stuff all the way on the right, you're not so interested. And if you're looking for a new way to escape the media echo chamber that, that so many of us are, are, are caught in, you might wanna tune in. It's hosted by a former Obama staffer, Ravi Gupta and a Gen Z libertarian and New York host Calmness named Ricky Sch Slott. They aim for conversations that are less takey and more like an actual chat between two thoughtful people looking for some middle ground. You can find the lost debate wherever you listen. Episodes drop twice a week, every Tuesday and Thursday it's on Amazon and Spotify and Apple and YouTube and wherever you get your shows.

The Weeds (16m 34s):
Hey, I'm Jolyn Hill, I'm a producer here at Fox and if you're anything like me, you know that news moves really quickly, especially during an election, whether it's the polling, We're asking a lot more of political polling than it is able to give us Ballad initiatives. Abortion is the most obvious one here. Like, it's like, well there's the most ballot measures ever. And it's like, well yeah, because you know, there's no longer a bedrock Supreme Court protection that really limits what states and voters can do. Or the issue on voters' Minds Fair is a huge motivator for voters and maybe a more effective one than trying to get them enthusiastic about a particular politician's policy platform. Things are happening fast and the weeds is here to slow you down with smart in-depth conversations about the policies, the politics, and the information you need ahead of the midterms. You can find the weeds wherever you get your podcasts. New episodes drop every Tuesday.

23 (17m 42s):
Is chess a gift? Could a guy who doesn't have a gift for learning to be a great chess player great. No, he could be Be good

0 (17m 49s):
Though today. Explain back with Nate Solon, who's a data scientist, but also a chess master.

24 (17m 55s):
It means I have a rating over 2200. So when you play in a chess tournament, you get this numerical rating. So over 2200 is a master. Actually, I actually played Hans Neiman many years ago. Ha. And lost when he was, you know, he was a talented young kid, you know, long before the whole scandal sort of blew up.

0 (18m 12s):
He's still a talented young kid. He's 19 years old now.

24 (18m 15s):
Yeah, he, he was a talented, much younger kid, but good enough to beat me in that game.

0 (18m 19s):
Do you think he was cheating when he beat

24 (18m 21s):
You? No, I, I definitely had no suspicion actually it was, it was kind of a messy game. Like neither of us played very well, but in chess there's something called a postmortem where you analyze the game with your opponent. That's sort of a tradition, huh? Oddly, based on what people are saying now. He was very impressive in the postmortem. Like he showed a lot of lines that he had seen during the game that were very impressive, Huh. Whereas now people are criticizing him from these post-game conferences. But I don't read too much into that. I think it's, it's sort of an adversarial environment and he's, he's kind of playing a heel role, but I'm, I definitely feel sure that whether or not he cheated or how much he's cheated, he's a really strong chess player. He's like for sure capable of, of seeing deeply into a chess position and analyzing a lot of lines.

0 (19m 4s):
So as a chess master, as a data scientist, do you think Hans Neiman was cheating in this match in question

24 (19m 14s):
In the game against Magnus at the sink field cup? No, I don't think he was cheating in that game. Hmm. We know he cheated online, He admitted to that. It would not shock me if he had cheated over the board at least once in his career, but in that game, not, like, nothing about the moves of the game was suspicious. Very high profile, like highly scrutinized event. So it'd be quite hard just in terms of like, you know, the sort of device or the mechanics of how he would've done that. So yeah. Of all the games he, he could have cheated in, I think that one's really unlikely.

0 (19m 46s):
Have you ever cheated?

24 (19m 48s):
I have not. I mean, honestly it doesn't make a ton of sense to me cuz like, you know, the fun of chess is kind of playing for yourself and like, and for me, I'm not, you know, I'm not competing for world championships or anything, so it just wouldn't make much sense to me in, in any way to kind of put my whole reputation on the line to, to what, you know, win a, win a game online or something.

0 (20m 10s):
Why do you think it's so widespread cheating? Well, what are people trying to, to gain if not, you know, have an honest chess match and, and, and use their, their prowess?

24 (20m 21s):
You know, it is weird, like online cheating especially is weird. Like, especially in games that don't count for anything. I don't know, I think people sort of feel smart to kind of put one over on the system and they don't, they don't realize that, you know, they're not the first person to have the idea to do that. But then it, you know, you do have games that do have real estates like tournaments with prize money or if you increase your rating, that can increase your opportunities in the chess world in various ways. So there are kind of material reasons that, that someone might want to cheat to, to win a certain game or certain tournament.

0 (20m 56s):
I'm sure people are listening to this and thinking, wow, it's ruining chess, but are there positive uses for this kind of technology? Yeah,

24 (21m 3s):
There definitely are. You're allowed to use these engines away from the board when you're not playing to study. And that's actually a huge part of how chess players study now because in effect, we, we have the answer key. Now you can input any chess position with one of these engines and get back a very accurate, detailed answer of what best play looks like. It's not absolutely perfect. Chess is not technically solved, but these things are, are much better than humans. They don't exactly spell out for you why they're doing what they're doing. So there's a lot of skill involved in sort of parsing those engine lines and wrapping your mind around what you as a human can take for them and apply to your own game.

24 (21m 48s):
But it's, it's tremendously powerful to just be able to take any, any position, give it to the engine and get back basically the right answer. Which, you know, before, before engines, like if you wanted to know what was really going on in a chess position, you just had to sit there and analyze it for like, you know, maybe for days or weeks if it was really complicated.

0 (22m 8s):
So do you think these chess engines have changed the game for the better or the

24 (22m 14s):
Worse? It's a mixed bag. So cheating obviously is a huge concern that I think that the chess world hasn't really grappled with as far as like, how do we catch this? What is the process for investigating someone? What are the consequences? That's, that's kind of what's being worked out now, now that this is all out in the open. I mean, I would say it, it democratized chess learning and chess access because you can use, you know, anyone, if you have an internet connection, you can go online and use one of these things. So people who might not have like a chess coach, you know, maybe there's not a grand master in your area or you can't afford that type of coaching, you can put your game into this and if you know how to use it, actually get really valuable feedback.

24 (23m 5s):
So it's, it is a great way to study,

0 (23m 7s):
Which is to say what that, that like, tech has forever altered this game.

24 (23m 13s):
Yeah. I mean there's no question that it's altered it in term how we study, how we think about the game and the possibility of, of cheating. Yeah, I think, I think we can definitely do a better job on catching the cheating, but I mean the chat's kind of out of the bag in, in some sense.

0 (23m 34s):
How do you think the chess world recovers from this saga? Or do you think this was ultimately good for chess because it got a whole lot of people, myself included, thinking about a game that they sort of never think about?

24 (23m 47s):
Yeah, well I mean it's that whole thing of any publicity is good publicity, right? Or, or is it, so it certainly got chess, a lot of attention, a lot of it has been negative. I guess it comes down to Are people going to see this and want to play chess or is it just something there, you know, is it more like watching a, a train wreck kind of thing? Within the chess world, it's really shown that we need to, to develop a better way to address this cheating issue. And I think there's, you know, a lot of progress can be made on that in terms of you can look at the statistics of how well people play. You can kind of up the security at tournaments, add time delays to broadcast and stuff like that.

24 (24m 32s):
And I do think we're gonna need a more formal process for how these cases are investigated. You know, maybe more severe sanctions for cheating online especially. So that's the big thing within the chess world. I mean the, the issue is just that these engines are so good and the top players are so good that if they cheat in a sort of subtle way, it's just really hard to catch.

0 (25m 1s):
That was Chess Master Nate Solon. He writes a newsletter about chess but also data, it's called Swish and Zu may easier to just Google Nate Solon Chessmaster newsletter or something like that. Our show today was produced by Amanda Lu Ellen and Ha Mawa edited by Matthew Colette fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by a theme, The Scream Shapiro. It's today explained.