2 (1s):
This is Advertiser content in preparation for the u.s. 2020 election.

1 (6s):
Facebook is taking critical steps

2 (8s):
to secure their platforms and provide transparency as part of their efforts. Facebook has tripled their Safety and Security teams to 35,000 people implemented five-step add verification and launched a new voting information center. Learn more about how Facebook is preparing at f b.com about / elections. That's f b.com about / elections Please raise your right hand and repeat after me. I Donald John Trump do solemnly swear.

1 (43s):
I Donald John Trump do solemnly swear that I will Faithfully execute that. I will Faithfully execute the office of President of the United States the office of President of the United States and will to the best of my ability and will to the best of my ability preserve protect. Protect and defend preserve protect and defend the Constitution of the United States the Constitution of the United States so help me God so help me God congratulations. Mr. President. It's takes planed. I'm Sean Rama's firm for years ago

2 (1m 22s):
Donald Trump from reality

1 (1m 24s):
TV won the presidency and our

2 (1m 27s):
shared reality hasn't been the same since the Relentless pace of headlines.

1 (1m 34s):
And

2 (1m 35s):
tweets has rendered the country divided at present and unable to fully recollect the past I've seen the Tweet about tapes. Lordy. I hope there are tapes. We struggled to remember what this president said or did last month let alone in 2017 for the past few weeks. We've been helping you remember with our series on the Trump years. We've been looking back on Donald Trump's policies accomplishments and Scandals during his four years as president to figure out what they mean for the future. ER of the American political experiment on today's show the state of our Union.

2 (2m 15s):
It's the final episode of our Trump years series and we're Shifting the focus from the president to the people the 40-something percent of Americans who have stuck by Donald Trump through investigations inquiries scandals and tweets and the tens of millions who have been eagerly awaiting next week's election since the results came in from the last one we want to try and figure out where four years of Donald Trump have left these two polarized groups and whether there's any hope of Finding some common ground again. We're going to start with Rebecca treister from New York Magazine who recently wrote about the Awakening of protest under President Trump.

1 (2m 55s):
Literally the day first full day of Donald Trump's presidential Administration, January 21st, 2017. Is this biggest single-day protest in United States history, and that was the women's March the crowd was so big that there couldn't be a March, right? Right. It was so much bigger than people had understood that it originally been planned, you know for people to March and with movement, but in fact there were so many people there that you couldn't move the streets were clogged and so my experience of the women's March was largely sitting on a block where I couldn't see anything surrounded by shoulder-to-shoulder with people for women's rights.

1 (3m 38s):
We bought for human rights. We are ready for the fight we had This is the moment of the beginning of the Revival of the women's movement. This is the moment you will remember when women stood strong and stood firm and said never again. This is the moment that you are going to be heard. I mean it was it was remarkable and it wasn't and yes, there are a million different things. You could say the and and have been said and need to be said and should still be said about what was and wasn't. About that event, but the sheer numbers of people on the first day of his presidency saying I'm paying attention.

1 (4m 24s):
I do think it was a really powerful Harbinger For What Not only was going to come but what had to come? I mean the women's March was the first

2 (4m 38s):
of many movements and many protests that came after inauguration day. There were protests in airports

1 (4m 43s):
after the president announced his travel band protesting restaurants that Administration officials frequent did in DC and elsewhere. Prepare your Fender evening here eating dinner at your concussion and the separation deportation of over 10,000 children separated from their parents scientist held their own

2 (5m 8s):
protest were there more protests than we'd seen in Prior administration's or did it just feel that way.

1 (5m 15s):
Well, there were better attended protest than we've seen in Prior administration's right. So these things wound up being huge. There was the women's March Each there was March for our lives Young Americans took to the streets today and numbers likely not seen since the Vietnam War and of course led by young people six minutes and 20 seconds with an AR-15 and my friend Carmen would never complain to me about piano practice. Aaron fights would never call Kira Miss Sunshine. Alex schachter would never walk into school with his brother Ryan. There were the climate strikes, you know, there's there's this culture A protest but there's also running for office and then working for campaigns getting engaged on a local level which is sort of rare especially for those who've been politically apathetic.

1 (6m 7s):
Even on a presidential level. Suddenly. You have a population of people who are very interested in their State Legislative races. That's something that happened in New York for nearly all of the past

2 (6m 17s):
Century with a few brief breaks Republicans ruled the New York

1 (6m 20s):
State Senate then in 2018. They lost a number of seats to Give Democrats a decisive

2 (6m 26s):
40 seat majority out of the 63 Senate

1 (6m 29s):
districts. That's another form that this Awakening took and then of course there's me too in the fall of 2017 in the wake of the reporting on Harvey Weinstein cereal predation again, it's not you know Fists in the air Street protests, but the outpouring the kind of title outpouring of stories of ubiquitous sexual harassment and assault that came as part of the Tag me to movement which I want to point out me to the me to movement was founded and led by Toronto Burke starting in 2006. So this is building on routes that were put down much earlier, but the mass flood of stories comes in the fall of

2 (7m 11s):
2017. What were the tangible up shots of all of these protests?

1 (7m 16s):
Well, it depends on which ones you're looking at. So one area where you saw tangible results the kind of culture of Engagement and but in the spring of 2017 lead people to flood the phone lines and the corridors of the Senate to push back against the repeal of the Affordable Care Act. protesters are swamped Town Halls that Republican senators were giving you three members of my family included me that was being dead - and homeless if it was not for a see a they absolutely just overwhelmed Senate offices, you know, the tangible results of that is that that fight ended with John McCain very famously giving his thumbs down and the Vulcan efforts to repeal the ACA failing another tangible result.

1 (8m 19s):
I would say it are the midterm elections of 2018 CNN can now project that Democrats

2 (8m 25s):
will win the majority in the US House of Representatives. Do

1 (8m 29s):
we've that was larger than Democrats have seen since the Nixon Administration emigrants worried about the knock on the door change. So women whose rights are perpetually under attack change spearheaded by A lot of women candidates many women of color many first time candidates many of whom talked about being propelled into electoral politics by their rage in that period that's certainly a tangible results. Another tangible result. I would say if you look at the hashtag me to movement or explosion of stories is that you saw many really powerful people most of them powerful men lose their jobs, which is a you know, it's not it's not as solution but it's a shift in who has power in the media and entertainment.

1 (9m 26s):
I mean those were repercussions in the midst of that hashtag. Me too. I mean people like Matt Lauer and Charlie Rose and Mark Halperin who importantly were some of the people who had Told the story of politics for decades proceeding lost their jobs as those storytellers. I mean that is a tangible shift in how these

2 (9m 51s):
things work and the fight over the ACA and the Blue Wave and me to might feel like a somewhat distant memory at this point. But as we speak protesters are in the streets across the country proclaiming black lives matter.

1 (10m 5s):
Yes, so at the height of the protests this summer, When millions of people rushed to the streets in cities and small towns many of them small white towns around the country public opinion shot up in approval for the protests 67 percent of those polled in the middle of this summer voiced at least some support for black lives matter and there was a shift at one point in just a matter of two weeks. That was greater than the shift had. Over two years preceding that was on the side of the protests and for all those weeks when the media was covering them in many cases as though they were violent as though they were, you know, worryingly disruptive and yet opinion remained on the side of the protesters and that is a remarkable thing.

1 (10m 60s):
If you look at polling now that support has receded and it has receded especially in white respondents, but The degree of Engagement in these conversations even beyond the protests aren't meaningless. Right? So the people who rushed to read books about racial inequality over the summer so much of this country has changed how we are encouraged to think about the history of this country. Not that it's not contested. I mean Republicans are trying to ban the teaching of the 1619 project including Donald Trump and Senator Tom Cotton, but that's a signal of how disruptive this shift in how we talk About this country and its Origins and the fact that it was built around racial hierarchies.

1 (11m 45s):
I mean, this is a massive shift that has taken place not exactly in protest culture, but in educational culture in how we talk and think about how the United States was built and how it

2 (11m 57s):
functions when we talk about detractors to these movements. There's perhaps no greater detractor than the president himself for obvious reasons, but I wonder where Where do these movements go after the president be that in, you know, three months or four

1 (12m 17s):
years? I think there's also a history in Progressive. Agitation that takes sort of First Step wins and treats them as like the great Victory and you can look at that. I mean that's a critique that's been made correctly. I believe about Reproductive Rights Movement that treated row as the end point rather than the beginning point and ever since then you've seen access to abortion a road for millions of people. Lots of people who thought that electing a black president was like the apotheosis of our of our race. Reckoning like we fixed it right didn't understand a the degree of intense backlash to that was going to get us in part to having this conversation right now about Donald Trump's presidency, but also that that was like a first step and I'm very worried that a democratic win will feed a fantasy that things have gone back to normal and that the stuff that was always there before Trump that Trump just made visible to so many millions of people will again become invisible to them ironically, I guess one of the things that leaves me with hope that people won't be able to just go back to sleep is how bad things

2 (13m 34s):
are the global recession perhaps if record Dimensions is a near

1 (13m 41s):
certainty record-setting wildfires burning across the nation's West Coast are turning Landscapes into an eerie scene seemingly out of an apocalyptic movie u.s. Reported more than 80,000 coronavirus cases yesterday setting a record high for daily cases for the third time this week.

2 (13m 59s):
We are on a very difficult trajectory. We are going in the wrong direction.

1 (14m 5s):
The question is will they be able to connect? The catastrophic reality is that they're going to be able to see with the political system that is far greater and with roots much deeper than Donald Trump and continue to understand their civic responsibility to engage with and participate in that system

2 (14m 30s):
to try to fix it.

1 (14m 32s):
And that's an open question. I don't know the answer

2 (14m 34s):
to Rebecca treister she's the author of good and mad the Revolutionary power of woman's anger. She's also a writer at large at New York Magazine after the break Vox is editor-at-large Ezra Klein. This is Advertiser content

1 (15m 15s):
Facebook is continuing to take critical steps to better secure their platforms including more than tripling Safety and Security teams to 35,000 people and partnering with security researchers other tech companies and law enforcement. What's next Facebook supports updating internet regulations to address today's challenges and hold companies, including Facebook accountable for combating for an election interference protecting people. Privacy and enabling safe and easy data portability between platforms. Learn more at about dot f b.com

2 (15m 48s):
regulation. As Rebecca just told us all about these changes that happen to movements on the left and the sort of galvanization of the left in this country over the course of the Trump presidency, but I feel like it's important to note here that 40 to 45 percent of the country was seemingly perfectly pleased with the job. He was doing that entire time. Yeah by the number. So I think there's a couple ways to think about this. There are people who are Trump. Guns and then there are people who are not that engaged in politics and are judging off of the state of the country.

2 (16m 28s):
So for much of Donald Trump's presidency, the main contributor from politics that you would expect to be driving presidential approval numbers is the economy and for much of Trumps presidency. The economy is doing fine. The

1 (16m 38s):
unemployment number is down to three point five percent. So that goes way way back we haven't had numbers like this in a long time.

2 (16m 46s):
You had very low unemployment you're beginning to have pretty significant wage gains particularly for lower-income workers. So not only are we already seeing the benefits of higher wages and bigger salaries much bigger salaries, but

1 (16m 58s):
we're also seeing the creation

2 (17m 0s):
very importantly to me of new jobs Democrats will tell you that was a continuation of Obama era Trends and in fact a slight slowdown from them and they are right about that Trump inherited that

1 (17m 9s):
economy and if you compare job growth in the last, you know, 36 months of President Obama's term. It was 227,000 jobs on average and President Trump also good but a hundred ninety one thousand jobs per month on average.

2 (17m 22s):
French but nevertheless that is how people judge what's going on and it was going fine under Trump. I am very surprised at the degree to which that number has held up under the coronavirus the fact that you have about the exact same approval rating for Donald Trump right now as you did a year ago and they've been 200,000 deaths in the middle of that and there's been a economic collapse more or less and Trump has managed his in a very erratic and often absurdist ways suggesting, you know injecting bleach, but also just going back and forth. With day-to-day on whether or not to treat it like a big deal. I would have expected that to shake it more. So I think then you have to say that that is the Republican Democratic divide in this country. Trump does not command a majority but there is a you know, roughly 40 percent group that what they want is a champion against the forces of leftism the forces of a diversifying America the forces of change and one thing Trump always does no matter whether he is governing effectively or not is he is always a rhetorical and so Media and cultural Champion for that revanchist white base that he claims to represent and they appreciate that about him.

2 (18m 29s):
Do we think what Donald Trump Unleashed in our politics the ultimate opposite of political correctness, the guy who's happy to call half the world shitholes and happy to call Mexicans rapists. Can you put that back in the bottle? I don't think Donald Trump Unleashed it Donald Trump rode the wave. He isn't the ocean. This is like the he's the he's the symptom not the disease. Yeah, he's symptom not the disease. Um, there's one argument that Donald Trump is created and emboldening effect and unleashing effect righted. He's made that, you know, proud boys feel more supported

1 (19m 8s):
probably stand back and stand

2 (19m 11s):
by but I'll tell ya bouldin white Nationals Marchers and white supremacist Merchant Charlottesville, but you also had people that were

1 (19m 20s):
very fine people on both

2 (19m 22s):
sides, but something's also had is a thermos. static effect on public opinion where immigration has become much more popular over Donald Trump's term pulling on race has changed dramatically many many more Americans now adopt have adopted a more structural definition of racism and many more Americans including white Americans are likely to say discrimination and other forms of racism have been key reasons why people haven't done as well in this country as white people have so one thing is just worth noting is that while Donald Trump is certainly emboldened a fringe he is also By being a very weak messenger for parts of it potentially weakened it there are more Savvy politicians. We've seen them worldwide and we've seen them in American history who can smuggle in very racist ideas or very xenophobic ideas in more sanitized ways.

2 (20m 10s):
But Donald Trump has really Associated the ideas that he carries with a very very blunt sort of bigotry and for the long-term health of those ideas that may not have been the best thing for them. It's clear that Donald Trump mobilize so many on the left and the right. Is there any sense, you know for years later which mobilization was more significant. One thing that I would always think about the Trump mobilization is he's a bit of a paradox and the he's an extraordinarily successful political figure judged by the standards of the outsider candidates and a very unsuccessful political figure judge by the normal standards of politicians.

2 (20m 52s):
So he is one one single election. In which he never lets got fewer votes in the person he ran against which in most elections would mean you lose then in the midterm election his party lost by huge numbers. He himself has never been popular with the majority of Americans never and he's at least for right now quite a bit behind in the presidential election. So yes, he drove a mobilization among particularly working class white voters who carried a lot of racial or anti-immigrant sentiment on the other hand. And he's never commanded that or built that into a governing majority or even like a like a majority of people who approve of him personally.

2 (21m 34s):
So whether or not he's comfortable position on the left what that amounts to I think is also an open question that we'll see what happens to the left after Trump is out of office and what happens to democratic Coalition when the figure of trump isn't there to unite him. I mean, there are some pretty big fissures in that Coalition that could emerge into Joe Biden presidency, but you know, this story is Young yet and whether or not there's a real line. Here simply an operation here. I think is yet to be is yet to be known. you know, we've tried to be fair to President Trump throughout the course of this series in our five episodes be it talking about his greatest accomplishment his tax cuts or talking about his America First policies and his success there or even his ability to get rid of the individual mandate, which I guess he deserves some credit for but I think In fairness to the president and to Joe Biden, it's very clear that one of these candidates has made Uniting this country more of a pillar of his campaign then the other which leads me all but sure that if we do get another four years of Donald Trump will be even more polarized come 2024, but I wonder if the divisions that Donald Trump has you know sewed can be undone is there depolarization in this country in the next four years?

2 (23m 0s):
Years as it gone too far. Polarization predates Donald Trump he has a political strategy that is obviously built on exacerbating it on amplifying our deepest divisions sort of our angriest political conflicts when he Fades from the scene if he Fades from the scene some of that might ease I do think Joe Biden will run a more conventional presidency. He'll be more interested in reaching out to people don't agree with him, but Look back, like do the little

1 (23m 33s):
dude

2 (23m 37s):
just go back a couple of years to the end of Obama's presidency. We went out a said that was a not polarized time

1 (23m 44s):
President Obama. Are you listening me that people need relief from overdose? Like they sent the Tea Party is alive and well and we are going to write the obituary for big government. It wasn't a nightmare only the Democrats and only liberals could actually lick the guy who repaired suit one cancer. His comment or tweeted Ronald Reagan never entered the Oval Office without a jacket Obama poses for crotch shots with foot on desk and frankly. It's hard to believe that he doesn't just issue his birth certificate. It would be so easy to do if in fact he has

2 (24m 19s):
one we saw Republican mobilization against Obama that was extraordinary. And of course led to De Tamil Trump

1 (24m 25s):
himself.

2 (24m 29s):
Joe Biden's presidency particularly. If Joe Biden wants to have an ambitious presidency that rolls back some of things Republicans have done like like the way they've taken over the Supreme Court that is not going to be a small thing. That is not going to be a quiet thing and Joe Biden whatever else he is is a transitional figure, right? I mean, he represents a Democratic party many factions of its simultaneously compromising on somebody they thought could win at a time when winning was everything to them. But biting himself sees himself as a transitional figure towards that more diverse young more liberal America and picking Kamala Harris as his vice president was part of that right?

2 (25m 10s):
She is a liberal African American Indian American woman and so did agree that part of what the polarization that Trump benefited from and also exacerbated that Barack Obama spoke to and represented for many people even as he often tried to downplay it in his politics to the degree that some what is simply happening. Is a collision between a younger more diverse more liberal more secular America and an older whiter more Christian more conservative America that has traditionally held power and now feels the desperation of beginning to lose it or at least lose it in an unquestioned fashion. That's not going away. That is a structural thing that is happening in this country.

2 (25m 53s):
You know, I remember four years ago. I was certainly surprised by Donald Trump's win. The fact that we'd have to start saying President Trump caught me off guard, you know some reports suggest that he was quite surprised himself and it's been four years of surprises since I wonder what surprised you most about his presidency over these four years as her such a good question so so much of it has been shocking but not surprising if that makes sense. I think the thing that has been most surprising to me is Donald Trump seems like a man a very strong opinions and on most topics.

2 (26m 33s):
He's actually not like that's a crazy thing about him. But but I hear this all the time from public and Congress and people on the Republican side that what they thought was Donald Trump like that. He wasn't a policy guy, but he knew what he thought and he was going to demand other people did it too, but actually he's all over the map on almost everything like one day he agrees with Pelosi and Schumer to an immigration deal in the Oval Office and he backtracks the next day, you know one day he's not having Stimulus negotiation anymore than he is. And you want a bigger stimulus in the Democrats that me doesn't Trump is like I think is Chuck Schumer said negotiating with President Trump is like negotiating with Jello Trump play acts as somebody with incredibly strong fixed opinions, but actually he's very very fluid and that's made any kind of policy making very tough in the Trump era because he does not act as a stable or stabilizing Force even within the Republican party.

2 (27m 25s):
There are a couple things reasonably consistent like trade but even there They're not as much as you would think. So, yeah, like if there's anything about him, it seems that he's a guy who knows what he wants and will try to get it and I think it's true for his personal Ambitions, but as somebody who has to govern he has never known what he wants and he's never known how to get it. Ezra Klein, he's the host of the Ezra Klein show where you can hear him discuss a lot of what we talked about today only more often and this is a wrap on our Trump ears series. Thank you for listening. If you missed any of the five episodes along the way or if you want to share them with all those undecided voters in your life.

2 (28m 9s):
They're bundled together for you at vox.com / Trump ears while you're there go to vox.com. Vote if you haven't figured out your voting plan yet. Happy Halloween stay safe. We're back next week and they say it's going to be a big one. And now the ones we lost along the way.

1 (28m 43s):
Michael Flynn, he's now the senior most member of the Trump Administration to cooperate in special counsel, Robert molars probe into Russian meddling in the election fired Derek Harvey fired Mark. Corallo designed Sally Yates the acting attorney general Sally Yates question, whether the immigration order was lawful telling the Justice Department's lawyers not to defend it the White House then calling it betrayal. Fired Walter Shaw resigned Michael Short resigned Rich Hagen's fired. Tara doll resigned Michael Dukey resigned James Comey.

1 (29m 29s):
I remember saying I agree. He's a good guy as a way of saying I'm not agreeing with what you just asked me to do fired Angela Reid fired. Vivek Murthy fired Katie McFarland resigned Katie Walsh resigned Sean Spicer. This was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration period both in person and around the globe in accurate numbers involving crowd sighs. We're also tweeted no one had

2 (30m 4s):
numbers because the

1 (30m 6s):
National Park Service which controls the National Mall does not put any out.

2 (30m 18s):
resigned this is Advertiser content

1 (30m 28s):
in preparation for the u.s. 2020 election. Facebook is taking critical

2 (30m 32s):
steps to secure their platforms and provide transparency as part of their efforts. Facebook has tripled their Safety and Security teams to 35,000 people implemented five-step advocation and launched a new voting information center. Learn more about how Facebook is preparing at f b.com about / elections. Yes, that's f b.com about / elections.