1 (2s):
The Cold War between the u s and the u. Ss S R was a golden age of espionage, theft of nuclear secrets, the

2 (9s):
Destroyer of worlds,

1 (10s):
The C I A, the K G B spies passing information. They

2 (14s):
Penetrated top secret British and American nuclear facilities and provided Russian scientists with highly detailed information on America's development of the atom bomb.

1 (25s):
And then the Cold War ended right? Or maybe not, maybe it got bigger. The Wall Street Journal just reported that Chinese citizens had been gate crashing American military bases. Meanwhile, in China, the once secretive ministry of State Security just got on social media to mobilize the Chinese public against espionage. On today explained a Historian who got access to some recently declassified archives. Says we get two things wrong about the Cold War, the beginning and the end. That's coming up.

3 (1m 1s):
I'm so sorry ma'am. I know you need this medicine, but it looks like it's not covered by your insurance.

4 (1m 7s):
Yeah, unfortunately I had to deny that one. Wait,

5 (1m 11s):
Who are you?

4 (1m 12s):
I'm your insurance company's pharmacy benefit manager. I get paid based on the price of a medicine and I don't make as much money off this one.

5 (1m 20s):
No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

0 (1m 30s):
Policy

6 (1m 31s):
Can get controversial and it turns out no topic is off limits when it comes to the back and forth.

7 (1m 37s):
It's funny 'cause on the one hand you think about like it's about kids and food. So why should this be controversial? On the other hand, like it's about kids, it's about food. Of course it's controversial

0 (1m 48s):
School

6 (1m 49s):
Lunch debt, how we got it and how to fix it. That's This week on the weeds.

1 (2m 6s):
It's today explained AB Noel King Calder Walton is a Historian of espionage and intelligence and yes, that is every bit as cool as it sounds at Harvard's Belfor Center in a new book called Spies. He argues that we misunderstand the Cold War, that in fact it started a lot earlier than we thought. This is a big claim and it's one that he's prepared to back up. Well,

8 (2m 27s):
This book became something of a quest for me over the last six years to travel to different places and to use different archives both from the Soviet Bloc, the former Soviet Union and Western countries. So I went to the presidential libraries across the us. I went to archives in the uk. I interviewed people in Europe and I used Russian archives and Ukrainian archives. But most importantly, I used a tranche of previously top secret K G B material that had been smuggled outta the Soviet Union as it collapsed and is now parts of it are publicly available in Cambridge in England.

8 (3m 8s):
So this is a treasure trove of K G B secrets that it has to be said Putin's regime does not want out in the world. Hmm. So using these records allowed me to have a look at what the Soviet intelligence services were doing from the 1920s onwards and then also marry that up, weave it together with what Western intelligence services the British and the Americans were doing. The picture that emerges Noelle is a completely one-sided fight. The principle western power that the Soviet Union was obsessed with, the Great Enemy was Britain at that time. Not yet the United States. Hmm. The Soviet Union, Soviet Intelligence Services were effectively waging a cold war against Britain during the 1920s and 1930s.

8 (3m 54s):
They were recruiting agents who became absolutely decisive in the later period of what we consider to be the conventional Cold War. Now, what was surprising for me is the motivation of some of these agents, some of the, the most infamous spies in Western powers, the five Cambridge spies. In particular,

9 (4m 16s):
The man who was chiefly responsible for recruiting first Kim Philby. And then the other members of the Cambridge Magnificent five was probably the ableist controller the K G B ever had.

10 (4m 27s):
They'd seen the way that the Depression had devastated the British working class. They'd watched the hunger marches pass through Cambridge. They'd watched the rise of Nazi Germany and they all came to the conclusion that a capitalism was not going to be able to cope with the coming crisis. And that b, the Democratic nations weren't being able to stand as a bulwark with the rise of fascism and that the only possible hope against this rise of fascism was Moscow.

8 (4m 58s):
These were ideologically motivated, committed communists graduates of Cambridge University in the 1930s, who with skillful tradecraft from their Soviet handlers case officers applied to join the British Civil Service. They aced their entrance exams and as the Second World War approached, they were like moles within the British government with access to some of its most sensitive information

2 (5m 30s):
During the day. She'll be trained recruits in the uses of propaganda at night. He helped himself to the secret information contained in m i six files.

8 (5m 42s):
This meant that during the Second World War, Stalin and his spy chiefs knew more about British secrets and US secrets than often the Western governments knew about each other. It was a totally perverse situation

2 (5m 60s):
Thanks to Kim Philby. The Russians knew the identity of most of the m i six agents operating in Europe.

11 (6m 6s):
A network of spies embedded within America and Britain's secret atomic program had been stealing research secrets and sending them back to Moscow.

1 (6m 23s):
So all this time before World War ii, the U SS S R is spying on the Britts and the Americans are the Britts and the Americans spying right back.

8 (6m 32s):
They are not only not spying right back, the US government didn't even have an foreign intelligence service before the Second World War. When the O s s, the predecessor of the C I A was established during the Second World War, its primary mission was to defeat Hitler, defeat the access powers and the long-term lingering threat of the Soviet Union was a very, very low priority. Little wonder then that we find out that Soviet intelligence penetrated the o s s from top to bottom

10 (7m 11s):
O s s had was very well infiltrated, penetrated by the K G B. The head, for example of the Latin America Division of Research and analysis section was was a K G B agent.

8 (7m 26s):
I think it's fair to say that O SS s was, I'm afraid, the most penetrated intelligence service in history.

1 (7m 33s):
Incredible. Because we think of, I mean, as Americans, we think of our own country as being the one who's reading everybody's mail, listening to everybody's phones and, and you know, in, in recent history we've had our moments certainly, but the idea that we weren't up to speed is, is incredible to think about.

8 (7m 49s):
That's exactly right. The US government did not have a dedicated signals intelligence agency. It did collect signals intelligence, so decrypting communications, but it did so through different branches of government. There wasn't something that you Listeners may have heard of the N S A A dedicated Signals intelligence station that was created in the 1950s and Pearl Harbor and a surprise attack on the US by the Japanese grew out of a catastrophic intelligence failure. A a good deal of which is explained by the fact that the US government did not have a dedicated signals intelligence agency.

12 (8m 31s):
We interrupt this program to bring you a special news bulletin. The Japanese have attacked Pearl Harbor Hawaii by Air President Roosevelt has just announced the attack also was made on all naval and military activities on the principle island of o' Howell.

1 (8m 43s):
Did the West ever catch up to the U Ss SS R in terms of spying?

8 (8m 47s):
Absolutely. And this is the thing about particularly the us it might take a while to get going, but once it gets going, it really gets going. Hmm. And soon in the 1950s, the US government, particularly under Eisenhower, was throwing resources at intelligence collection that made it difficult, if not impossible for the Soviets to catch up. So after a succession of failures of trying to recruit human spies and trying to parachute spies behind the iron curtain, after those failures, Eisenhower administration, the C I A, came up with pioneering new ways of collecting intelligence on the Soviet Union. One of which was the, you choose spy plane

13 (9m 29s):
To minimize weight. The plane was fitted with just two wheels. The engine modified to work in the thin air of high altitude and onboard a revolutionary camera that could capture images of Soviet missile batteries from the edge of space.

2 (9m 43s):
Within a year. The U two C I A pilots over flying and photographing this immense country proved one thing that the reports of the Soviet's massive bomber production had been greatly exaggerated.

8 (9m 57s):
I would phrase it simply as this, the greatest success on the part of US intelligence and British intelligence during the Cold War was at key points to prevent that Cold War turning into hot nuclear war.

1 (10m 14s):
So the Berlin Wall comes down, the U Ss s r falls apart, dissolves, and then is the Cold War over?

8 (10m 21s):
It depends on whose perspective you're talking about. From the Western perspective, it seemed to be from the Russian government's perspective, absolutely not.

1 (10m 37s):
The West says the Cold War is over. Russia says it's not. It used to be they were the only two that really mattered, but coming up all eyes and ears on China.

Canva (10m 54s):
Support For the show today comes from Canva for teams. you know when you see a killer presentation so good that you just kind of like look over to the person next to and you're like, darn, that's a good presentation. Well, the person presenting may have used something like Canva for teams. 'cause it's making it easier than ever for anyone to make compelling, beautiful presentations and you do not wanna get left behind. Canva for Teams is a design platform focused on helping users create all sorts of stunning content, access a wide variety of templates, fonts, and colors for your presentations, social media posts and websites. You can collaborate with Canva for teams right now. You can get a free 45 day extended trial when you go to canva.me/explained. That's c a mv slash explained for a free 45 day extended trial. canva.me/explained.

3 (12m 5s):
I'm so sorry ma'am. I know you need this medicine, but it looks like it's not covered by your insurance.

4 (12m 11s):
Yeah, unfortunately I had to deny that one.

5 (12m 14s):
Wait, who are you?

4 (12m 15s):
I'm your insurance company's pharmacy benefit manager. I get paid based on the price of a medicine and I don't make as much money off this one.

5 (12m 24s):
No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit pH ma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

15 (12m 35s):
The names explained today explained.

1 (12m 39s):
We're back with Calder Walton. He's a Harvard Historian of espionage and spying. Calder, you said we've been making some incorrect assumptions. The West has been assuming that the Cold War ended and then all of the other players moved on to other geopolitical problems.

8 (12m 56s):
Well that's of course what happened in many ways in Western countries, particularly the us the Cold War was over. There was a sense of triumphalism. This was as was famously said at the time, the end of history. This was an era in which there was US dominance in the world. But if we look at it from the other perspective in Moscow, there was a sense of humiliation, of despair of crisis. They were no longer a superpower. The Soviet Union ceased to exist, and in fact, Russia was hardly even a great power. It was from this stew of revist bitter hostility that Putin emerged.

8 (13m 46s):
Putin was a K G B officer trained in the foreign intelligence branch of the K G B. He was stationed in East Germany in Dresden. He famously saw the collapse of the Soviet Union around him while he was stationed in Dresden.

16 (14m 2s):
In total disbelief for Lins began gathering on both sides of the wall at the famous checkpoint, Charlie and other crossing points. After the bombshell announcement in East Berlin. The news that East Germany was opening its borders for the first time since 1961 stunned the world and for Lins most of all.

8 (14m 21s):
At one point, crowds engulfed the headquarters of the K G B and the East German stars. And as he later recounted, he called for backup from Moscow. And in his words, Moscow was silent. He has effectively been trying to correct as he sees the catastrophe ever since. In 1991, the K G B ostensibly ceased to exist. Putin found new work in Leningrad St. Petersburg working for the regional government there and Leningrad was the gangland of St.

8 (15m 2s):
Petersburg, the center of Russian Mafiaa. His position in the regional administration government there made it inevitable that he would begin to interact with, and it seems cooperate with Russian mafiaa leaders. There there

17 (15m 18s):
Were no real rules. There were no real laws. Of course, people bribed in order to get certain privileges. I was told by people who are close to Subha, you have to pay $100,000 in order to have a soup with him.

8 (15m 36s):
Putin then, to everyone's surprise in 1998, became the head of the F Ss B, the Russian security service. He incorporates the KG B's former tradecraft, its practices all that it stood for into the F S B. And he also at that point fuses the F Ss B, the security service with Russian Mafiaa operations and money laundering. The next year to even greater surprise of everyone in Russia, including probably Putin himself, Yeltsin, ailing and in need of a safe successor appointed this really not too well known person, Putin to be his successor in the Kremlin.

8 (16m 20s):
Vladimir

18 (16m 20s):
Putin is head of the new K G b. He's not a person Russians know, let alone love. But today he's prime minister tomorrow may be president.

8 (16m 30s):
Since then, Putin has been trying to recreate the Soviet glory, a past glory for the for Russia. And perhaps most importantly, he's been fussing his rule of a small group of people with money laundering and Russian mafiaa organizations.

1 (16m 49s):
One of the things we could not have predicted in 19 89, 19 90, 19 91, as the wall is coming down, no one really predicted the way the world would reorganize itself and that China would rise to the degree that it has. When does China come in here?

8 (17m 7s):
Well, after nine 11, and this is really the picture that's emerging both in the documentary record through newly available records and through interviews after nine 11, the US government and its allies understandably plowed overwhelming resources into counter-terrorism.

19 (17m 24s):
The elected branches of our government and both political parties are united in our resolve to find and stop and punishable those who would do harm to the American people. It is now my honor to sign into law the U S A Patriot Act of 2001.

8 (17m 43s):
At that time, Russia and China viewed this as an opportunity for them to pursue their grand strategies for Putin. It was to correct the catastrophes of the past and for China it was to rival the US in Southeast Asia. This hasn't been, I think, properly acknowledged by historians and other scholars. In 2005, the Chinese Intelligence service, the Ministry of State Security declared war on the US intelligence community. And after that point, through its best resources, people, officers, technical capabilities at destroying US intelligence capabilities in China,

20 (18m 31s):
Now at least 18 C I A informants were killed or imprisoned in China after spy network was dismantled. That's according to reports in the New York Times.

21 (18m 40s):
Before we started losing these informants, we had extraordinary visibility into Chinese operations, government operations, whether Intel military. And after they rolled up these informants, it was almost a complete blackout. We're told, I mean, it's one of the most devastating intelligence failures in modern C I A history.

1 (19m 1s):
How big are the Chinese intelligence services?

8 (19m 4s):
Really good question. Really difficult to answer. Hmm. The K G B at its height, if you include officers and agents, had about a million people on the books overall. And I've been told that the Ministry of State Security well surpasses that this is an enormous, enormous vehicle within China whose tentacles spread outside China to the western countries themselves.

22 (19m 31s):
US officials confirmed that Chinese citizens suspected of being spies have attempted to penetrate US military bases in Alaska. In recent months,

23 (19m 41s):
China has been spying on the US from various sites based in Cuba for years,

24 (19m 46s):
Two US Navy sailors are accused of Betrayal charged with sending national defense secrets to China for thousands of dollars in exchange.

8 (19m 54s):
The biggest difference between the past and present is the nature and the size of China's economy. The Soviet Union never had an economy to rival the us, but of course, China today, its economy is the only one on the planet that can rival the us. The biggest challenges will be for Western countries to use new capabilities like machine learning and artificial intelligence to understand data that they have collected on closed police regimes like Russia and China. This is the battleground of this centuries Cold War, the race for artificial intelligence, machine learning, and quantum computing.

1 (20m 40s):
So the old Cold War was which economic system, which political system, capitalism or communism, democracy or authoritarianism. Those are big existential questions. What's the end goal of The, new Cold War today? Is it an existential thing? The race for artificial intelligence? I could imagine that being limited to the economic sphere, but not necessarily existential.

8 (21m 4s):
No, you're absolutely right. So we have to look no further than what Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping leader of China said on the eve of the war in Ukraine, where they held their press conference and issued a joint statement where they said that Russia and China are in an alliance and agreement with no limits.

25 (21m 26s):
Xi Jinping called Vladimir Putin, his dear friend, his strategic partner.

8 (21m 33s):
Now throughout history, what we find is that people, well-meaning people read the speeches of authoritarian leaders and dictators and then try to sort of say, well no, this is probably just rhetoric that actually they probably don't mean that. It turns out that actually she and Putin really mean what they say. They fundamentally reject the US liberal democratic order and they, they are seeking to overturn the existing security architecture created by the end of the Cold War. They believe that Western democracy is no, in no true sense democracy because it doesn't allow other countries to have a share in the future of the world.

8 (22m 16s):
And their ideas.

27 (22m 20s):
The attempts of a number of states to rewrite and reshape the world history are becoming more aggressive and by and large have an obvious goal, at least in relation to our society, to disunite the privacy of guidelines and ultimately to weaken Russia.

8 (22m 34s):
They believe that authoritarian rule is the true sense of democracy and that their regimes, what they stand for is a better version of the future, will be better equipped to deal with the challenges lying ahead in the 21st century. This is really genuinely what they mean, and they are using their intelligence services as tools to fulfill that by stealing as much western technology as possible in order to rival the US and as they see it, hopefully overturn its place in the world.

1 (23m 7s):
And this time around the West is spying back on Russia and China. Yes,

8 (23m 12s):
The West is spying back and it seems with Russia, it seems to have done so spectacularly well.

28 (23m 20s):
We believe that the Russians have put in place the capabilities to mount a significant military operation into Ukraine. And we have been working hard to prepare a response.

8 (23m 31s):
Your Listeners might remember that before Putin's war in Ukraine, the US government and the British government declassified intelligence about Putin's war plans, which effectively removed his capability to maneuver and concoct excuses for launching that war. This was a spectacular, intelligent success. I'm less optimistic, I have to say about China though I think that the onslaught from China's ministry of state security, which undermined and sabotaged US intelligence collection in China are not convinced that the US has good intelligence on she's intentions or capabilities.

1 (24m 19s):
You know, I always wanna ask at the end of an interview, what are the mistakes of the past that we can avoid repeating? But if we don't have good intelligence on she, do we know what we need to not repeat?

8 (24m 32s):
It's a good question. I I think that the burning question is what in Washington is whether she's intentions and capabilities, are they secrets or are they mysteries? Hmm. And there's an old saying within intelligence circles that a secret is something that is knowable and can be discovered. A mystery is something that is unknowable. So we need to have reasonable expectations on mysteries. Now the simple fact of the matter is we just don't know about she's decision making process. Who does he communicate his most secret intentions to? Clearly a very small circle of people and the idea that we would be able to hack into his communications or recruit an agent within his inner circle.

8 (25m 22s):
This is on one level what an intelligence agency should be doing. But the idea of doing that in China today poses colossal challenges and I would say remains a mystery.

1 (25m 45s):
Calder Walton, his new book is called Spies. Today's episode was produced by Amanda Luellen and edited by Matthew Collette. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Patrick Boyd. I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.