1 (5s):
It's Tuesday, March 31st, 2020 the last day of March sadness. I'm Sean Rama's firm. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained the numbers of new infections appear to be stabilizing and places like Spain and Italy Italy's new cases just hit a two-week low. Unfortunately, the United States is bracing itself for a surge in. Cases New York's confirmed cases jump something like fourteen percent just overnight dr. Fouch e and dr. Burke's from the president's coronavirus task force are expected to provide more details this evening, but it seems like the country was just a little too late to the social distancing thing and as a result hospitals across the country will be overwhelmed laying two more cases more deaths.

1 (54s):
This is not to downplay the importance of social distancing according to Politico doctors and State. Leaders in California are saying that the bay area's early moves to lockdown residents have prevented a surge of coronavirus patients from overwhelming the Regions Hospital so far the entire Washington DC area impose similar lockdown measures on Monday after seeing cases continue to rise in this region and employees from Whole Foods across the country plan to call in sick today to protest unsafe working conditions at the grocery stores. This was an effort to press its parent company. Amazon owned by the richest person in the world to provide more protection and higher paid to employees after a colleague at another store tested positive for covid-19 one employee told the LA times.

1 (1m 42s):
We are scared to come in. We didn't really ask to be at the front lines of this pandemic and this was after a group of workers at an Amazon warehouse in New York City walked off the job on Monday to protest safety conditions and wages there but it's not all bad news for booksellers Powell's Books in Portland Oregon had Higher back over a hundred workers after laying 400 of them off earlier this month with full time schedules and benefits the staff are returning to help ship book sold online. It's true what the bumper sticker says think Global act local you can hit us with your coronavirus questions via email today explain to box.com. We are on Twitter at today underscore explained or a traumas firm or call us to zero two six eight eight five nine four four.

1 (2m 35s):
Globally offices are closed and we're all practicing social

2 (2m 39s):
distancing but one major way we're staying in touch with family

1 (2m 42s):
friends and co-workers is through Zoom want to know more about the company and the leader behind the brand keeping us all connected. Then you have to subscribe to zero to IPO a podcast from OCTA long before we all started taking video calls from 9 to 5 0 to IPO interviewed Zoom founder Eric you on where he shared his journey and advice when you watch printers in the space subscribe to Go to IPO podcast to hear this episode and catch up on season 1 of 0 to IPO.

1 (3m 26s):
The president is speaking used to mean something it meant like stop what you're doing and meant you need to hear. What's about to be said but with this president, the president is speaking means something else. It means maybe he's blasting the media. Maybe he's talking about how great he is. Maybe he's trying to make the case that there's very fine people on both sides, but now we are in a crisis and the president is speaking every

2 (3m 53s):
day. He gets up with his

1 (3m 55s):
task force practices unsafe social distancing and stalks off the cuff for an hour an hour plus and it's all over the TV and people are

2 (4m 6s):
watching at

1 (4m 7s):
Sunday's briefing the president even bragged about how many people are watching. But even they said that the ratings are like Monday Night Football writings and that these are like Bachelor finale that's their end when the big deal happened. I have no idea what happened because I'm too busy working on this someday. You will tell me what happened while toasting your own ratings while the country you lead braces to lose 200 thousand of its own citizens might feel like a new low. It actually gets lower at his press briefings. President Trump is misinforming the public about the science of this car. A

2 (4m 43s):
virus so some people are concerned that there are things said in the briefings that can't be fact-checked in real time and that the briefings are potentially putting information out there that may not be true or could be misleading or without context is not

1 (4m 58s):
useful Nell. Greenfield boys has been watching the briefings for NPR where she's a science correspondent.

2 (5m 4s):
So for example, the president will say that testing is going very very well

1 (5m 10s):
in eight days because we kept hearing about South Korea. They had a very tough time at the beginning if you remember in eight days, we're doing more testing than they've done in eight weeks. That's a tremendous turn

2 (5m 21s):
and you know, if you're just carrying the briefing live, you can't jump in there and sort of offer some context and say well, you know on a per capita basis, it's not testing the most of any other country in the world or for example, President Trump will say, you know, he's thinking of reopening the economy on you know Easter and you know, somebody will ask

1 (5m 43s):
Whenever they would suggest that they're startled is a beautiful time to be a beautiful time a beautiful

2 (5m 49s):
timeline. And so there are these things that are sort of floated out there. For example, another one was the drug hydroxychloroquine.

1 (5m 56s):
It is known as a malaria drug and it's been around for a long time and it's very powerful. But the nice part is it's been around for a long time. So we know that if it if things don't go as planned it's not going to kill anybody. When you go with a brand new drug, you don't know that that's going to happen. You have to see and you have to go long test, but this has been used in different forms, very powerful drug in different forms, and it's shown very encouraging very very encouraging early results.

2 (6m 33s):
And then you know medical experts will have to say then well, you know, it hasn't been tested and controlled trials. Like we really don't know how useful it will be and so, you know, some places have said maybe it's not so useful to carry these briefings like Maybe it would be better to just report on what said and then you know things can be put into some sort of context. The

1 (6m 52s):
president of course also has a historically contentious relationship with the media has that been an issue at these press briefings.

2 (7m 0s):
Yeah. I mean, so he'll have responses to reporters that you know will generate their own headlines.

1 (7m 6s):
Why don't you act in a little more positive. It's always trying to my question to you and you get you and you know what? That's why nobody trusts the media anymore - he has that going to impact is in here me that's why You used to work for the times and now you work for somebody else. Look, let me tell you something be nice. Don't it s'prise the right questions. He's threatening be nice

2 (7m 25s):
going question is how and that can become like a major headline from a news briefing and the News briefings that the coronavirus task force are giving sort of cover the whole gamut of subjects. So in the same briefing, you know, you'll have discussion of testing and ventilators but also discussion of political concerns International. Earns economic concerns legislation and so what it means is that you know, none of these subjects gets delved into very in-depth like a whole bunch of things are kind of touched upon and then there's some brief questions, but then the briefing is over and then people sort of come up with headlines based on what was said and then everybody waits around till the next briefing the next day.

2 (8m 8s):
I guess

1 (8m 9s):
this isn't really a normal situation. But how are these things normally done?

2 (8m 14s):
This is not a normal situation. Okay. So this is really a very unusual Health threat that the United States is facing and so, you know one could say of course people want to hear from the White House on the other hand. The White House briefing room is traditionally kind of a politically based scene, you know what I mean as opposed to a place like for example the Centers for Disease Control and prevention in Atlanta which in the past has really taken the lead on in Warning the public about infectious disease outbreaks. So think about ebola think about zika we do think that if you come back from an area where zika is spreading and you're

1 (8m 55s):
pregnant we recommend that you be tested whether you were symptomatic or not. We recommend testing in the first trimester and then again in the third trimester in terms of people who don't have symptoms. We don't think they need to be tested. But we think

2 (9m 10s):
that who aren't pregnant, but we think that they do need to take

1 (9m 14s):
Precautions with with sexual contact particularly in terms of sex with the pregnant

2 (9m 19s):
woman in those kinds of situations. It was the CDC that was continually updating the public on the numbers talking with the public about what's known what the science is suggesting what they're looking for. You know what the best measures might be for mitigation or addressing the problem and yet with these White House briefings. You haven't seen anyone from the CDC on the stage in day. If not weeks, I mean, there's a member of the task force. Dr. Robert Redfield who's the director of the CDC, but he's not appearing at the podium. It's not the CDC this time speaking out to the public from the sort of high-profile briefing.

2 (9m 59s):
Why is that?

1 (10m 1s):
Why isn't dr. Redfield around

2 (10m 3s):
for a while at the beginning of this outbreak the CDC had been having regular teleconferences with reporters and that's very similar to what they've done in past outbreaks or every day that you know, they'd make some of their Matter experts available to the press and conference calls. And with those calls they would be focused on the epidemiology and the science we expect we will see Community spread in this country. It's not so much a question of if this will happen anymore, but rather more equipped of question of exactly when this will happen and how many people in this country will have severe illness and the people who called in we're typically experienced health and medical reporters who had covered lots of outbreaks in the past and the questioning would be Focused on scientific questions.

2 (10m 46s):
So in this kind of case you could imagine questions about treatments or questions about testing or questions about you know, how exactly the virus is transmitted. But the CDC hasn't been having those kinds of press briefings. The last one was on March 9th. And you know, I asked the CDC in an email why those had been suspended and if they were going to be resumed and I didn't get any response and you know, you see that at least I see it because I've been noticing In Articles. The reporters will say they reached out to the CDC and didn't get any response and the CDC is normally a very accessible organization. And in the last few days, you know, I have been seeing a few interviews here and there so like and shook it spoke with a paper in Israel for example, and with the newspaper the hill but you're not seeing them speaking out in the public like Anthony falchi is for example,

1 (11m 39s):
and and you're also not hearing from them when you ask why you're not seeing.

2 (11m 44s):
Just to be clear. Yeah, I didn't get a response to that question. So if we emailed the CDC and

1 (11m 48s):
ask why they're being quiet you think we'll end up with nothing.

2 (11m 52s):
You can give it a shot if they say something to you. I'd really be interested.

1 (11m 56s):
Editor's note. We gave it a shot. The CDC didn't get back to us either. I'm just like stunned by I'm stunned a little bit by by the fact that they haven't even responded to you. Like it just sounds I don't know off the record. I'm just trying to work through

2 (12m 9s):
this like I sometimes I find myself

1 (12m 12s):
going through an interview with someone and there's like just this one big question that we're not answering and it just seems like the one big question we're not answering is why aren't they talking to reporters that's bizarre

2 (12m 23s):
right yeah I mean I think again you know this is on the record you know I think that I was watching one of Governor Cuomo's briefings from New York and in his briefing he was very clear to separate it out like here's what I know as facts and here's just my personal opinion the only mean like he made it very clear like first I'm going to give you a series of facts and then I'm going to tell you what I think about them but he was very clear to say you know this is just me talking this is like you know what Taking from this and I think that kind of communication can be really helpful where you just sort of make it clear to people what's known what's not known.

2 (13m 8s):
You know what we surmise and I think that you know, you know at the state level you're seeing people take that approach and I think that at the state level you are seeing the kind of communication that crisis management experts suggest which is consistent message sort of repeated over and over again. Again by trusted voices and Authority whose messages are basically compatible with each other,

1 (13m 35s):
but we don't get that from the White House briefings. We have President Trump on one planet and then people like, dr. Burke's and dr. Fouch e on another will that be

2 (13m 44s):
enough? I mean, dr. Fouch e is highly respected and people think he is a great communicator and he has a lot of experience but the Institute that he runs is primarily a research institute, you know, they're doing things like, you know helping Set the research agenda on the virus and looking at the development of vaccines. It's the CDC that is our nation's foremost public health agency that is involved in the prevention of disease transmission. It's the CDC that's traditionally been the one that is in close contact with all the state Departments of Public Health. And so, you know, it's the CDC that has the disease detectives who go around, you know investigating.

2 (14m 28s):
In outbreaks and helping States devised mitigation plans. So, you know, I think people are really happy to hear from dr. Fouch e and in fact if dr. Fouch he doesn't appear at a briefing it makes some people worried. You know, you see people on Twitter saying where is foul Chi there's this fear that his occasional willingness to contradict the president might lead to President Trump, you know not wanting him at the Press briefings. I don't see any reason why there couldn't be briefings from the White House that would cover things like the economy and you know the sort of political response and also have briefings from the CDC that are focused more on the science and what's happening, you know with regards to transmission at the state level and that kind of thing but so far that hasn't been happening.

2 (15m 17s):
It's just been the briefings from the White House task

1 (15m 19s):
force. After the break Matthew Iglesias argues the cable news networks should get together and cancel the Trump show. Its today explained. I think it was sometime last week that I came to you to tell you about a new podcast called T mystery. It's from the people at atlassian. It's hosted by a filmmaker and a documentarian named Gabriella cowperthwaite and team is tree looks past all the news on the front pages, which maybe you might be trying to get away from right now and into stories of teams building some of history's most groundbreaking moments.

1 (16m 16s):
That sounds real positive. I haven't heard it yet is the truth. But if you have let me know what you think of it. I'm easy to find anyway, each episode of T mystery examines the extraordinary Chemistry Between people on teams like the seamstresses behind Apollo 11 space suits the true story behind Thomas Edison's electric light system and the team who photographed a black hole for the first time.

2 (16m 41s):
I hope that Edison episode has a shout out to Nikola Tesla shoutouts to

1 (16m 45s):
Tesla. Anyway, listen to T mystery and find out how teamwork can make the Dream Work. Download T mystery for free wherever you listen to podcasts new episodes are available every other Monday.

2 (17m 0s):
Tech has consequences and recode by Vox is exploring them all with the new multi-platform journalism project called open sourced through videos and articles open-source to explore and demystify controversial issues surrounding technology everything from facial recognition and surveillance to how add micro-targeting will affect the 2020 election. The project is supported by omidyar Network a Global Network of innovators entrepreneurs and technologists committed to addressing

1 (17m 29s):
Most

2 (17m 29s):
critical economic technological and societal issues of our time check out open sourced at vox.com open-sourced find out everything you need to know about the hidden consequences of tech box.com open

1 (17m 43s):
sourced. Okay, Matthew yglesias Vox. It looks like we're caught between like a trump and a quiet place on this one Trump is very loud. The CDC is quiet Trump has misinformation. The CDC has science. What do we

2 (18m 10s):
do? I think that cable networks television networks need to say they are going to stop taking these press events live every president throughout the television era has sometimes asked for the opportunity to address the nation. I've on matters of urgent National importance and every president has been extended that courtesy all the things we believe in are in great danger. This danger has been created by the rulers of the Soviet Union

1 (18m 39s):
today our fellow citizens our way of life. Our very Freedom came under attack in a series of deliberate and deadly terrorist acts. Good evening. Tonight I'd like to talk to you about the end of our combat mission in Iraq, the ongoing security challenges we face and the need to rebuild our nation here at

2 (19m 1s):
home at the same time. You've never had a president who just has sort of his every word is every remark broadcast live into America's living rooms because that would be ridiculous. And at this point I think you've got to look at these things and say

1 (19m 14s):
for the most part they are Donald Trump

2 (19m 17s):
political rallies. They are not real scientific public. Briefings and of course professional journalists should watch them and should cover them if anything newsworthy happens, but that would encourage the president to start putting actual content up there or perhaps himself not do it and let scientists and experts speak instead of having these sort of rambling discourses in which he does some misinformation some Public Health stuff and all that stuff. That's frankly just politics talking smack about his enemies bragging about his ratings and other things that have nothing at all to do with with public health or informing

1 (19m 52s):
people are president gave us so much. Hope we're just a few short months ago. We had the best economy the lowest unemployment and wages going up. It was amazing with our great president vice president and this Administration are all the great people in this country praying daily. We will get through this and get back to a place that stronger and safer than ever. Is there a counter argument here that this is an unprecedented event in our country's history and therefore The response and the sort of traditions also might be new and and unprecedented that that the president would get up in front of the country every day and just speak maybe even off the cuff to reporters and the

2 (20m 35s):
public. I mean, look, it's great that the president wants to speak to reporters. Right? I mean, I'm a journalist. I'm never going to say it's bad for the president to want to engage with the media and have a dialogue but the question is is like what do you are live, right. There was a time during the 2016. Primary when cable network CNN particular we're just carrying Trump rally footage sort of unedited as a kind of spectacle, right and nobody really took him seriously as a candidate, but we look back in retrospect and we say all that free media is a huge reason that he managed to win. Then when he first took office as president. He was such a strange situation. Donald Trump is president that like every tweet. He sent everybody would rush like scramble the Jets like hey, we got to cover this at a certain point though the media A whole sort of learned and they're like look like this is a guy he says a lot of stuff a lot of the stuff.

2 (21m 26s):
He says isn't true a lot of the stuff. He promises doesn't come to pass and so we're going to pay attention. It's not like you ignore the president but you you tone down the Trump show a little bit and you try to cover. What is the government actually doing right then coronavirus hits and we switch back into this different kind of emergency mode. Okay, we got to see what the president's going to say. He did that Oval Office address. Of course, the Network's took. That live I believe now had a lot of experience right and we can say I know that this afternoon there will be a trump press conference. And I know that this afternoon the press conference will not be a substantive factually accurate science filled presentation by Leading experts because I've seen him do them over and over and over again and it's going to be just this kind of rally style thing where he brags where he puts supporters up to praise him where he kind of like Rags on his enemies where he gets in these little mini fights.

2 (22m 21s):
Journalists, and you know if he wants to come out and do that like that's fine and everybody should take notes and see what happens and write stories about it. But if he's not actually providing urgent factual information, there's no need to take it live.

1 (22m 35s):
So in the past week or so you've come out and said this thing that the media should stop running the Trump show and you're not alone opinion columns in the times and the post have made similar arguments has it worked have people stopped running the Trump show.

2 (22m 51s):
They have not. I mean we have heard Rachel Maddow and Chris Hayes who are sort of important cable news personalities say this on their respective shows. If the president does end up saying anything true you can run it as tape. But if he keeps lying like he has been every day on stuff this important. We should all of us should stop broadcasting it. Honestly, it's going to cost lives, you know, CNN their president. Jeff Zucker said very forcefully that he has no intention of doing that and you know, that's too bad. He spoke very frankly in the wake of the 2016 campaign about his Network's programming decisions and how they were sort of just motivated by ratings and his sense of finances.

2 (23m 34s):
And you know, I understand that like journalism is a business of your podcast is a business. Everything Vox does is a business, but we're also journalists

1 (23m 43s):
like we wouldn't be in

2 (23m 45s):
this business unless we cared about journalism and you have to consider are you Upping the public understand what's happening by having the president stand up and rant and Rave and like get into weird fight about what's the population of Seoul in South Korea?

1 (24m 0s):
That's very like, I know South Korea better than anybody it's a very tight. You know, how many people are in sold your now big the city of Seoul is 38 million people that's bigger than anything. We have 38 million people all tightly wound together

2 (24m 15s):
like that to me is not informative. How's it working out for

1 (24m 19s):
him though? I mean he's bragging about How many people are watching right

2 (24m 23s):
well, so you know, this is a mixed bag, right? His polling is up. He's reached what's really his all-time high and Gallop surveys and other sort of frequently done opinion. He's getting a nice rally around the flag effect. But if you compare it to what you're seeing from other leaders, right? His balance is much smaller than what Emmanuel macron has gotten in France Boris Johnson in the UK Giuseppe Conte and Italy has an approval rating in the 70s and you look at home, Andrew. Cuomo has gained about 30 points and is up in the 70s a Gretchen Whitmer has a big bounce in the one poll who seen of her even the governor of North Carolina who hasn't been sort of particularly a high-profile figure during this.

2 (25m 4s):
He's gotten a huge Mounds. So Trump is up, which I think from his perspective shows that this is working but he's a much less than other leaders are and I think that reflects the sort of basic reality that he doesn't he doesn't behave in a normal. Way in these

1 (25m 21s):
circumstances. So where does that leave us? He's failing to manage the crisis. He's talking a lot of trash on TV and his approval ratings are up does anything matter Matthew? You know for Trump.

2 (25m 33s):
What I will say is that people are very fickle things come in and out of the news really really fast when the government was shut down because of the border wall. His numbers were really in the toilet. Then when that ended they bounce right back up and and they did so very sort of quickly. So Trump is kind of Riding High now on this this mini rally and you know good for him. But fundamentally the question he should be thinking about more is what is the actual situation in the United States of America in October? And November of twenty twenty going to be is our economy going to be in Ruins or people going to be doing. Okay. We'll have there have been a horrific death toll or will we have mostly survived?

2 (26m 16s):
How is this unemployment insurance really going to work? How are people going to be able to sign up for long? Grams, is this enough what our state and local governments can need to do and I know it's sort of boring to focus on the details and try to do your job. Well as opposed to posture for the cameras, but what's going to matter in the fall is going to be how did things actually go in the real world? I would much rather see us navigate this in a good way and then Trump gets re-elected on the strength of his leadership and see him sort of flail, but I do think you know, the most important thing to know about the politics right now is that his bump has been real people have looked at this and they like him more than they did a month ago, but it's been small compared to what other leaders have managed to deliver and the sort of aberrant Trump Behavior does not benefit him and I wish he would recognize that and try harder to act in a more normal and appropriate way

1 (27m 20s):
Matthew. Yes is the host of the weeds. It's a podcast from Vox. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today explained. It's also a podcast from box.

2 (27m 46s):
Hey everyone. This is Kara Swisher editor-at-large at recode

1 (27m 50s):
and I'm Scott Galloway and my you business school professor.

2 (27m 53s):
And we want to tell you about pivot are twice weekly

1 (27m 56s):
podcast. Yeah, you're right. It's a chance for the jungle cat and the big dog to break down all things happening in Tech business politics and among our canine

2 (28m 8s):
friends. Oh my God Scott. This is where like basically where I keep you in check. So people can make it through each episode which one of our Fans calls the yelling

1 (28m 16s):
podcast unleash the hounds release the Hound Cara release the

2 (28m 20s):
Hound got it. I spent all week in the trenches holding Business Leaders feet to the fire fearlessly tweeting at the Zuckerberg the world and then we come in the student argue about which one of us knows more about what happened that week. Typically, it's me, but not for lack of trying on Scott's

1 (28m 34s):
part if typically means one to two percent of the time, yes, typically every Tuesday and Friday morning. We drop a new episode about some of the biggest stories that have happened to give you. Context for how those stories affect your life your portfolio your personal well-being and your Landscaping. Oh

2 (28m 52s):
my God, we're on top of the big stories had kept first book Is monitor your not monitoring misleading political ads including coronavirus as we're watching the big companies like Airbnb tratak battle with cities over renting rules. We talked about how ride sharing companies are navigating the gig economy you name it and we will walk you through the story.

1 (29m 11s):
Also, we like to pick apart the winners and losers of the week. We talked to Experts smarter than we are pretty low bar there about important issues. And we take your listener questions to provide nuan's care. We provide Nuance you want wants anyone ever accused us of being Nuance. That's the copy. They gave

2 (29m 29s):
us. Oh my God and Scott, even though I give him a hard time because in fact a prediction machine how many things have you gotten right Scott? Do you keep a tally?

1 (29m 38s):
I think I've gotten exactly 50% right? I'm almost sure that okay exactly. 50% is super problem. By the way, I'm not a prediction machine. I'm just a machine. Oh my God, and I don't dance for nobody but the jungle cat. Oh, that was good. Oh my God, that was

2 (29m 54s):
good that is disturbing and every format. So if it sounds good to you, how could it not subscribe to Pivot with Kara swisher and Scott go away for free on Apple podcast or in your favorite

1 (30m 3s):
app. I see a lot of people out there on the internet talking about. Oh, I need more stuff to listen to who's got recommendations. I'm at home all day. I want podcasts. Well Have you listened to stay tuned with preach? It's all about Justice power law democracy. Probably coronavirus this point the host preet bharara. He led the southern district of New York the most storied Federal prosecutor's office in the country. He's got you know, he's got a signature. About him he's got an aura he's got calm. He's got wit and he answers audience questions and speaks with the people who happen to be shaping history right now previous guests include Sally Yates Bryan Stevenson, and some guy named Pete buta judge, never heard of him.

1 (30m 57s):
Listen now to stay tuned with preet wherever you listen to your podcast where you listen to this one right now, check out stay tuned with breat. I bet you could find it. Bye.