1 (1s):
Happy New Year, 2020 the year of I don't know really good Vision the year of the Barbara Walters. He's jokes

3 (10s):
are going to get old really fast. You know what hasn't gotten old yet. The one

1 (13s):
time President Trump called up president zalenski in Ukraine and asked him to investigate the Biden's you might remember it got President Trump impeached last year his Senate trial is proximate. Anyway back in April before the world really knew the name zalenski. We did an episode all about the guy on the other end of that phone call because his story is incredible. And because we're still taking a little tiny well-deserved break from daily podcasting. We are serving up that episode again today. You're welcome.

1 (59s):
Okay, crazy news out of Ukraine before we get into it. Can I have you say your name and how you want us to ID you on the show?

3 (1m 6s):
My name is vladyslav Davidson. I am a Russian American journalist. And editor. I am based in Ukraine and France and between Paris and Kiev and I am the chief of the Odessa review a fine Journal of culture and policy. And I'm an expert on Ukrainian and Eastern European politics. So we had an election here in Ukraine, which I monitor is an election monitor, which is a historic election.

1 (1m 41s):
It was

3 (1m 46s):
Ukraine's president Petro poroshenko was voted out of office after 5 years for a few different reasons and the Ukrainian voters by an overwhelming majority has put into power and amateur comedian television. An actor into the presidential

1 (2m 7s):
Chair by a landslide.

3 (2m 9s):
Yes on Sunday night. I watched the result is that all the other journalists and analysts covering the elections? It was between 72 and 74 and a half percent projected that valda mirror zalenski received an account.

1 (2m 24s):
I'm very good. Thank you. Thank you, everybody him and who is this gentleman?

3 (2m 33s):
This gentleman is a 41 year old actor a comedian. He is a guy who plays the president on TV.

1 (2m 42s):
It's as if Martin

3 (2m 44s):
Sheen after having played President Bartlet on The West Wing was elected to that exact same office. I hope that by the time we're done with our four years here we live Into it that every young person who chooses can go to college and Beyond regardless of their economic status, but also having included subplots within the show being part of the actual campaign with wink and a nod to the electorate.

1 (3m 13s):
So for those people who haven't seen the show, what was the president he played on TV?

3 (3m 17s):
Like he plays a history teacher from the outskirts of Kiev who makes a kind of profane curse filled. Speech to the Ukrainian population about the elites and the oligarchs and how bad they are this much

1 (3m 39s):
and then he

3 (3m 41s):
has that speech taped by one of the students who uploads it to the internet and a crowdsourced campaign takes place and he becomes a president of Ukraine Without Really Trying being a very.

1 (3m 56s):
clean and

3 (3m 58s):
pure fellow who represents the spirit of the people in ordinary man of the street who becomes the president by

1 (4m 6s):
accident How did he become a president in real life? Did someone say hey, you're really good at doing that thing on TV. You want to try it IRL?

3 (4m 19s):
Yeah, he ran for the presidency start his campaign on the same exact television station on which the show had aired. He was backed by a Ukrainian oligarch a very profane and funny fellow by the name of mr.

1 (4m 33s):
Kolomoyskyi kolomoyskyi a banking energy and media Tycoon with a fork. And put at one point eight billion dollars by Forbes last year

3 (4m 42s):
who owns one of the biggest television stations in Ukraine.

1 (4m 45s):
So zalenski had a powerful backer and a familiar face was that it did he think he could win?

3 (4m 51s):
I honestly think that he never ever expected to go this far. I think that he was what we call a technical Canada and Ukraine a candidate that was deployed to siphon off votes from another candidate a more serious candidate. I think that he is expected to win 10 12 14 percent in the first round of a presidential campaign and then go on into the Parliamentary elections in October and then he'd win 25 30 seats in the Parliament and that he would be a member of Parliament and have his own guys in the parliament, but I don't think he ever expected to be president. He was massively successful. I think more successful than anyone ever expected himself has backers the president the entire population.

3 (5m 39s):
He was never supposed to go this far.

1 (5m 44s):
You've actually sat down with them, right? What's he like? I am one of the few

3 (5m 49s):
journalists or policy analysts or anybody really to sit down with him. He does not really give interviews. He

1 (5m 55s):
is

3 (5m 57s):
surprisingly very Macho. He's not a very big guy. He must be about 5 foot 5, he is very muscular very slim. He obviously lifts weights. He is psychologically and emotionally extraordinarily intelligent and sizes of people very very very quickly. He has not really talked about what he actually intends to do for the most part with some small exceptions and in terms of policy, so he represents I think different things to different people and he hasn't really dissuaded people from the fact that he doesn't really believe what they might think he believes

1 (6m 33s):
right? And he's Jewish. Is that significant for Ukraine?

3 (6m 37s):
It's amazing. I'm actually someone who works on the Jewish Ukrainian relationship a lot. I myself am Jewish. I'm a Russian Jewish American and this is the second country after Israel which has both a Jewish prime minister and a Jewish president-elect at this moment. It's utterly remarkable in that way. This is the Cradle of Jewish civilization in many ways of Ashkenazi Jewish civilization, but only about a third of Percent of a population are of Jewish descent. He is not religious. He has openly spoken about his Jewish identity in the public sphere. He would say things like I am of Jewish blood Russian culture and Ukrainian patriotism and everyone here knew that he was a Jew and no one cared about it.

3 (7m 26s):
I think for most part and that is really an indicator of the fact that this country has changed a lot of ways and anti-Semitism is not really a big deal here.

1 (7m 36s):
Tell me about the campaign. He was running against the incumbent Petro poroshenko. What was it? Like

3 (7m 43s):
he didn't really campaign at all because he I don't think he really has much grasp of policy issues. So you basically just kept giving comedy shows

1 (7m 52s):
when I saw in your prostate cancer nigga crazy thoughts. So by chance

3 (7m 59s):
and he challenged the president to a debate in a stadium, which was basically not unlike a boxing

1 (8m 8s):
match. Yeah. I'm a political. I'm not a politician. I'm not a politician at all. I'm just a human being an ordinary human being who has come to break this system. I'm the result Petro poroshenko of your mistakes and Promises

3 (8m 23s):
including a drug test that both sides agreed to before the match Yeah, he demanded that the sitting president take a drug test before he would debate him

1 (8m 35s):
Petro poroshenko gave his analysis on live television in front of journalists. He also signed a document allowing for the results to be released but only regarding drugs and alcohol. How did they do on their drug

3 (8m 45s):
tests? The presidential administration had to release a press release saying that the sitting president of Ukraine was not taking LSD or anything related to hallucinogenic narcotics and When mr. Szalinski now president like zelanski took his test. It was in a drug clink that a friend of his own actually bit actor and one of his kids what? Yeah, no go to was just marvelous.

1 (9m 14s):
Yes, I donated blood everything all the blood they needed they pumped out of me. I have a lot of blood thank goodness. The blood is Young

3 (9m 24s):
the presidential Administration spread rumors that he was a drug addict that he is doing coke all the time that it was a cocaine addict. Obviously. I was never there, you know snorting cocaine with him, but that's what the presidential Administration was intimating that he was

1 (9m 39s):
doing. So why do people ultimately vote for him because he was funny because he was fresh because he was famous all of the above

3 (9m 46s):
what first of all Ukraine isn't in the midst of a economic situation where after the war was started by the Russians after the Russians invaded the economy

1 (9m 57s):
collapsed we had one It 1 million internally displaced people from the war in the East and the illegal annexation of Crimea by Russia at the same time. It is an economic crisis as well. It's twenty percent of our economy

3 (10m 10s):
and people's life savings evaporated and after that happened the Ukrainian population greater their teeth and waited for a long time for things to get better and things are getting better. The economy is growing at 3% a year, but people aren't feeling it so There's a lot of oligarchs also who have television stations which kept pumping propaganda the population that things are really bad and the president's on the take and corrupt and whether that's true or not and he is a billionaire and he is an oligarch and that's true and he is making money. I didn't stop making money during the course of the war

1 (10m 49s):
can't acknowledge the green party. How did it happen? I'm crane has practically the poorest government with the richest president in history. As you notice in the sleazy.

3 (11m 0s):
So there's just so much pent-up rage and frustration with the presidential administration of mr. Poroshenko that people voted against him. So you could have put up maybe a penguin or a camel or dog or a random person and they would have won this election

1 (11m 21s):
I

3 (11m 21s):
could have won this election you could have won this election. If your name was put up against the present you would have won. It is a total and utter and axiomatic and categoric humiliation for sitting president.

1 (11m 60s):
Let's love we haven't talked about Russia yet. How does Russia feel about all of this?

3 (12m 3s):
So the Russians obviously, it's a big deal because they really want a week Ukraine and they want Ukraine to you know, return to the Russian sphere of influence president poroshenko lost because he was not good on internal stuff, but on on the external relationship with the Russians in terms of Ukrainian nationalism and the Ukrainian Nation, he was very solid so Putin and the Kremlin really didn't like him and they were happy. I think very very happy to have anybody else come to power including a inexperience young guy who's never worked in politics and has no experience of holding public office who will certainly almost certainly make mistakes and who is said to have a chaotic and perhaps even weak presidency for at least the first year

1 (12m 56s):
has olinsky said anything about his intentions with Show does he have a firm position the

3 (13m 1s):
plan look he has said all the right things from the standpoint of the Ukrainian elections and he's been fairly belligerent in his rhetoric certainly not as belligerent as president Petro poroshenko, but he has said the things that you would expect him to

1 (13m 17s):
say. Why is Ukraine's relationship with Russia so important

3 (13m 27s):
we'll look Ukraine is one of the biggest countries in

1 (13m 30s):
Europe. It's a strategically

3 (13m 32s):
job politically politically economically important country. And what happens here has a direct effect on

1 (13m 41s):
you know, the NATO

3 (13m 43s):
and the East European Defense posture and Ukraine as part of the Russian Empire and then it was part of a Soviet Union. Polly unhappily that's a different question, but it's a country that has never been independent except for three years in the last 300 years. So make sense.

1 (14m 0s):
Yeah, do you think Russia will look at this inexperienced fun actor who had his buddy to his own drug test that he called for and see some low hanging fruit to go in and just walk all over this guy.

3 (14m 14s):
Look these guys are really really tough to put it mildly and they will look at this guy and we'll say say this guy is weak. This guy is inexperienced and we might use the opportunity to press our advantage that could mean anything from a diplomatic campaign to a full-scale Invasion. And certainly there's a huge risk to be crane Ian's

1 (14m 39s):
that the

3 (14m 41s):
election of a young guy who's not had any kind of experience in this kind of thing before might lead to more aggression one way or another from Russia.

1 (14m 54s):
You know, I hate to make everything about the United States but it just seems so comparable that people were thinking. Oh this guy he doesn't have experience but he can do it at least in the United States people could say oh Donald Trump, he's got business experience. I guess sure maybe he can run the country. This guy is like he's got acting experience. Maybe he could run the country. It seems short even more far-fetched. Did they look at the United States and go? Oh that's working out. Well, let's try that. Yeah, I'm

3 (15m 21s):
not sure about the actually looks at the model. In order to say oh, that's a great thing. It's not quite the same as Donald Trump because he valda mirror zalenski is not really a populist in the Western European sense because he has not taken any right wing or Ultra right wing positions. It's actually much more like Reagan then it is like President

1 (15m 46s):
Trump, but Reagan ran the state of California the biggest state in the Union for years before he became

3 (15m 52s):
president. Yeah. Yeah, that's true in the way that he is like Reagan. He is an actor who has a role that he played on TV that he's actually playing in politics. Now, he's just a guy who represents an opposition to the elite and they lead here is really nasty and corrupt. It's not the same as it is in America where people pay their taxes and you know, it's just it's just very different the really extraordinarily corrupt country. And people are really angry. So there are a lot of people who are promising an end to that. It's not only him

1 (16m 30s):
but the question is I guess can he do it can this guy with literally no political experience who didn't think he could win who is you know instituting all these stunts during the campaign sure. Can he fix a country with deep-rooted issues regarding corruption and and influence and oh Andy was and he was backed by an oligarch, right? I mean

3 (16m 52s):
he yeah he was totally back. Act by an oligarch actually everyone who comes to power here is either themselves an oligarch or back by an oligarch. There's really no way to come to power. If you don't have oligarchic connections money and television stations as the most important thing. It's really a corrupt country and things are really based on, you know, 15 20 people fighting between themselves and and arguing between themselves, right? It's a really complicated situation that way that said, can he do it? I think it'll be extraordinarily difficult for him because politics here is so Cutthroat and so shark like that. He will be eaten alive by the really cynical and vicious people in Parliament will have IMF debt to pay off.

3 (17m 37s):
He'll have seven or ten really vicious and very smart oligarchs positioning themselves to take stuff from him. He'll have the Russians. He'll have an ongoing War you'll have poverty to deal with it's an extraordinarily difficult situation for any Resident to deal with let alone a young gentleman who's never done anything in politics. So can he do it, you know, he can do little things and if he has a very strong team of reformers, maybe he'll surprises but it's a really really really Steep Hill to climb

1 (18m 9s):
do you think because zalenski didn't think he had a chance to win really wants this job. Do you think he might be terrified of actually doing this now that he's won the office.

3 (18m 20s):
I really I'm really wondering myself. Is he terrified? Wouldn't he be how could you not be terrified in the situation if he fails he will bring forth another popular revolution and if that happens this country will probably see the collapse of the economy and even Vision by the by the regular forces the Russian army taking large chunks of territory. How could you not be terrified? If you're rational person that situation we're going to find out for the rest of Europe. The and the rest of the world if voting for a television candidate social media candidate actually gets what you want or you are always unhappy even with that.

3 (19m 4s):
It's for me the next chapter

1 (19m 7s):
of

3 (19m 8s):
democracy by

1 (19m 9s):
television.

3 (19m 14s):
it's something that Americans and the British people and the French first certain point have pioneered but ukrainians are going to teach us what the actual final frontier of this experiment is and in many ways the experiments in democracy and disinformation and propaganda that have taken place here have been exported to the west and it is An extraordinarily important story for Americans and Western Europeans to understand.

1 (19m 56s):
Vladislav Davidson is a Russian American journalist. And editor. He is based in Ukraine and France and between Paris and Kiev and he's the chief of the Odessa review of fine Journal of culture and policy and he is an expert on Ukrainian and Eastern European politics a lot of the translation you heard in today's episode was done by today explains engineer a fiend the dream Shapiro spasiba. Roshan Aramis Firma, we do Shima podcasts avoid. Uh, no. No, he's not a child glove me producers avoid near stolen oil is not try it Irene. Noguchi ready doctor. I am not the producer Bridget McCarthy producer Ian a departure.

1 (20m 41s):
No, I'm hasn't filled some in know which lenarcik Amanda Amina al-saadi the broke parole. Which Washington Accord Columbia Seattle wins Williams. The ponytail upon motion at any jelly at buried Hansen is main if I just go pyrus this fishing Tanya nauseous to jankovic them semester. Ciona Petros Nash compositor died instantly brake master cylinder. She avoid near Stone has no child praise voice to stuff. Mr. Stitcher in we have lime suggest you say to podcast of VOX media, but most of the night to show off Twitter at today underscore.

1 (21m 22s):
explained