1 (9s):
The winter Olympics in Beijing are officially over going into them a few weeks ago. The biggest story was COVID of course, but then also human rights in China,

2 (17s):
The Biden administration will not send any diplomatic or official representation to the Beijing 2022 winter Olympics and Paralympic games given the PRC ongoing genocide and crimes against humanity and Jinja

3 (32s):
Chinese tennis player punks wise spoke with the president of the Olympic committee on a video call today, but there are still many questions, many questions about her safety

4 (41s):
Plaintiff China's weaker community and their harsh repression lose large over the winter Olympics.

1 (47s):
But then the game started and that sort of seemed like the end of all that human rights stuff is that fair?

5 (53s):
Very fair, Sean. We

1 (55s):
Reached Tom Goldman in Beijing, where he was covering the games for NPR.

5 (59s):
You know, certainly a disappointment to human rights, activists and advocates, disappointment to journalists to, I mean, I covered those stories a lot going into these games, but then basically as we say, when we got here crickets and we didn't hear a thing. In fact, there was one protest that we know about and it had nothing to do with Chinese documented human rights violations. It had to do with the Ukrainian skeleton racer, holding up a sign saying no war in Ukraine,

6 (1m 32s):
We've finished competing Harris cave, which added, I want peace in my country. I want peace in the world.

5 (1m 38s):
I fight for peace. That was an easy one for the IOC. They could get behind that. So he wasn't punished, but the other stuff never really happened. Why you,

1 (1m 47s):
I think that the weakers or punk Schweiger weren't a bigger story at these games. Was it something that the Chinese government did was something that the IOC did? Was it just sort of the magic of sports taken over?

5 (1m 58s):
That was part of it, Sean, but I think athletes will not, not, I think I know athletes got a very strong message from the Chinese organizers. A member of the Chinese organizing committee said in the week leading up to the games athletes who criticized or speak about something that doesn't have to do with a limp ism. And I'm putting that in quotation marks will be punished

7 (2m 22s):
And behavior or speeches that is against the Olympic spirit, especially against the Chinese lowest under regulation are also subjected to certain punishment.

5 (2m 34s):
The official never detailed what that punishment would be, but there are enough stories about what happens to people who speak out against the Chinese government. I think to have a pretty effective chilling effect on the athletes. You know, the, the great snowboarding legend, Sean White, some activists had contacted Sean White at a pre Olympics event and had actually taken a photo with, he posed with the flag. And I think it was students for a free Tibet S F T. And so we were thinking, well, maybe he'll say something he never did. He never was asked as well. And I think that's an important thing to mention. It was a dilemma, obviously for athletes who, who had been told explicitly by the Chinese organizers, that they would be punished and also told by their national Olympic committees, not to not speak out, but warned that, you know, there could be consequences

8 (3m 30s):
There to compete, do not risk incurring the anger of the Chinese government because they are ruthless.

5 (3m 37s):
So they had to be careful in what they did. And I think it put journalists in a difficult position too, because a lot of the communication we had with athletes was through very public press conferences and to put an athlete on the spotlight that I think a lot of us chose. We're not sure we wanted to do that. It was a very uncomfortable thing. Activists will say, well, it's important that that people are in uncomfortable situations, but these athletes were here to compete, to perform to, as they say, and it sounds like a cliche, but to do their best if they could. And we shouldn't hang everything on these athletes, the ones to be put on the spot about this are the international Olympic committee, obviously because the athletes have no say in where an Olympics are held, the IOC has everything to say, we're an Olympics are held and they choose to put it in countries with authoritarian regimes.

5 (4m 34s):
And so the questions were for them. Manuel.

9 (4m 37s):
I see, I see his reaction to Madam Yans comments on Taiwan or Chinese Taipei. Was that not a political statement when sports and politics don't mix,

5 (4m 45s):
They got the questions and they did what the IOC always does. Artfully dodged and painted a narrative of, we are only about political neutrality.

10 (4m 56s):
Our concern here is with the 206 national Olympic committees. And that's what we concerned about. There are many views on all sorts of things around the world, but our job is to make sure that the games take place in the magic of the games can happen. And then we can improve

5 (5m 8s):
The welfare sport. We are about bringing the world together. We don't talk about politics,

1 (5m 18s):
Despite the attempts to sort of avoid all the difficult conversations and just concentrate on the sports. It seems like the sports themselves still managed to present some controversies, right? I mean, let's start with this one. That was just about nationality. It seemed, it seemed like there was some issues with Chinese Americans choosing between China and the United States. Is that how it went down? Yeah, I think

5 (5m 40s):
That's accurate. And I think no athlete fits that description or narrative and Eileen GU

11 (5m 48s):
This is like different personalities per se, but I've always felt like when I speak Chinese, well, they're showing a way call him for sure. A gall had thought we use Richard. So I got <em></em>

5 (6m 2s):
The 18 year old born and raised in the U S she chose to compete for China. And she has a Chinese mother. She speaks Mandarin very well. So she definitely has Chinese connections.

11 (6m 16s):
I was little I've always said when I'm in the U S I'm American, when I'm in China, I'm Chinese. I preserve it by having friends and being able to communicate with people because that's the best way to transmit culture.

5 (6m 27s):
She tried to be a bridge to this adversarial relationship that's grown between the United States and China, but it was hard for her. She got hard questions here in Beijing about her citizenship for one thing, because it's against Chinese law to have dual citizenship. So she was asked, well, did you have to renounce your us citizenship to compete here? One thing

12 (6m 52s):
Trying to clarify, are you still a us citizen or how's that

11 (6m 58s):
I've always been super outspoken in my gratitude to the U S to the U S team. Well,

5 (7m 2s):
Well, she wouldn't answer it. She worked around it. She ultimately came back to a very IOC sounding message of I'm just here. You know, w if anything, I want to, I want to bridge this adversarial relationship and show that we can all live in harmony. And then when that failed and reporters who were still skeptical, she said, here's the thing.

11 (7m 24s):
I'm not trying to keep anyone happy. I'm an 18 year old girl out here living my best life. Like I'm having a great time. You know,

5 (7m 31s):
Look guys, I'm 18 years old. So, you know, maybe direct your questions elsewhere. But you know, she, she took heat from reporters here. She's also taken heat from conservatives in the United States who believe she is a trader. Wow.

13 (7m 49s):
So welcome to China. I hope stardom. And the, the riches that you have earned through betraying America are all worth it because you have definitely,

5 (7m 58s):
They sold out. So, you know, she was dealing with, with those issues as well. Well, I don't really want to pick on an 18 year old either, but did she ever actually say why she chose to compete for China instead of the United States, as close as I can get to an answer on that? As she said, it was basically because her mother is Chinese and she wanted to dedicate it to her mother. She also, you know, want her to be, she said she wanted to be a role model for, for Chinese kids in her sport. And she wanted to grow her sport in China. So her, her sport of free ski. So, you know, those were reasons she gave, she also said again, as a way to bridge the divide, she said, when I'm in China, I'm Chinese.

5 (8m 43s):
When I'm in America, I'm an American. She became a political lightening rod, certainly in the U S in China, she was revered. You couldn't watch CCTV without seeing her on like every third advertisement. And she went away with two gold medals and a silver medal in her sport. So she is probably feeling fairly good. Although probably exhausted by the whole experience.

1 (9m 30s):
Support for the show that comes from imperfect foods today. I love me some imperfect foods. I'm at the grocery store. I see a blemished onion. I see a perfect one. I buy the blemished one. I'm just kidding. I don't have the guts. I'm not brave enough. I buy the perfect one, but imperfect foods. They are some brave people. They, they gather all the blemished ones, all the rejected babies, and they bring them to you. And they say, look at this food. That is perfectly fine. Don't throw it away. Don't don't ignore it, confront it, eat it, embrace it. Enjoy it. It's delicious. Right now, imperfect foods is offering today. Explain listeners 20% off their first four orders.

1 (10m 10s):
When they go to imperfect foods.com and use the promo code, explain 20. And it's 20% off your first four orders. That's up to an $80 value. bob@imperfectfoods.com. When you use promo code, explain 20, join the movement@imperfectfoods.com and use the code. Explain 20

15 (10m 36s):
This black history month. As we honor trailblazing historical figures, LinkedIn wants to also celebrate those working to build a better tomorrow. LinkedIn is sharing the success stories of black entrepreneurs that have come to inspire us all learn about Jason Mayden founder of the sneaker company, super heroic, who was first inspired as a kid, after seeing a pair of stylish sneakers that made him feel like a superhero. Jason hopes kids, especially from his hometown, feel the same when they wear his sneakers here about Ulyssa Jean Charles, founder of healthy roots stalls, whose passion sparked when she noticed none of the dolls, she saw looked like her. So she created dogs for the underrepresented.

15 (11m 17s):
LinkedIn wants to ensure all black entrepreneurs can pursue their passions. So LinkedIn is donating $500,000 to blavity.org and digital undivided to help entrepreneurs fund and grow their businesses. Join the conversations happening on LinkedIn this month, learn and connect with black entrepreneurs that are charting a new path and share how you are doing the same@linkedin.com. LinkedIn welcome professionals.

1 (11m 54s):
Back with Tom Goldman from NPR. We left off talking about the adversarial relationship between the United States and China at the Olympics, and for everyone who wanted a distraction from that,

5 (12m 3s):
It was Russia. Sean, there's always Russia for scandal, hungry journalists, and there were thousands of us here. It was manna from heaven. What, what happened? Although incredibly painful for a 15 year old, we of course, are talking about Camila LGA bites,

16 (12m 22s):
Camila believer, 15 years of age from Moscow, the Russian national champ, the world junior champion, 2020. And the favorite for the

5 (12m 32s):
Olympic goal.

1 (12m 33s):
Yeah, somehow we're not talking about the fact that Russia was maybe, or maybe not going to invade Ukraine the entire time. We're talking about a doping scale

5 (12m 40s):
As we have done for the last three Olympics when Russia has attended the Olympics, but also been kind of band kind of punished

17 (12m 55s):
With the summer Olympics in Rio, less than a hundred days away, Russia finds itself embroiled in a doping scandal unseen since the days of the east German sports machine.

5 (13m 5s):
Let me remind you when Russia had been exposed as being involved in talking about the fact state sponsored, or maybe widespread the system we're talking about at the 2014 Sochi games, brushes cheating

18 (13m 18s):
Was worthy of a Hollywood script, dirty your in samples were passed through a hole in the wall and swap the clean ones at the Saatchi winter Olympics in 2014,

5 (13m 27s):
The world anti-doping agency said before the next Olympics, the 2016 games in Rio de Janeiro, Hey, let's ban these guys for four years. I mean, when an athlete tests positive for drugs, they are banned. And so maybe we need to punish Russia so they can go away, do some soul searching so they can get back to competing without performance enhancing drugs. But the international Olympic committee, of course, balked at that. Russia is a hugely important Olympic stakeholder, rich. They paid a record $51 billion for those Sochi Olympics.

5 (14m 7s):
So the IOC has soft pedal. This and wrist slapped Russia for the last three Olympics at these games.

19 (14m 17s):
Athletes are competing as the Russian Olympic committee officially known only as ROC they're supposed to go by jugs.

5 (14m 24s):
So those three letters, they can't wear Russian uniforms. They can't fly the Russian flag. They can't be identified as Russian athletes. When everyone knows they're Russian, Russia is never fully acknowledged that it has a doping problem. They have never done that. They still have not to this day, they fought everything. And now they found themselves at these games back involved with a doping situation

6 (14m 54s):
And the 15 year old value of, you know, the story she's been allowed to compete in the winter Olympics, despite testing positive for a banned heart drug prior to the games. And there are,

5 (15m 3s):
There's no consensus right now, Sean, as to whether it is a performance enhancer that still has to be established. Now that the games are over war, perhaps months away for her case being adjudicated, if you will. So she somehow ingested this. She had told Russian officials that it was from a heart medication that her grandfather had been taking and that she, whether it was drinking from the same cup or whatever had become contaminated with,

20 (15m 35s):
And the New York times reports a document filed in her hearing reveals that in addition to the banned drug, there were two other legal substances that can treat the heart found in her sample from Christmas day. Now, according to,

5 (15m 50s):
Of course you have the backdrop of Russian doping. And so it's very easy to take the leap and say, well, of course she's a doper. We don't know that. And it's really important to say that. And that still has to be proved where fingers do need to be pointed though. Two places. One is her coaches, because I think everyone is of the belief that if there is intentional doping proved that she didn't actively knowingly do it. It was probably the adults around her. The other finger needs to be pointed at the testing agencies. The fact that Camila volley Ava was tested, had a urine sample taken on December 25th of last year and had the positive test revealed.

5 (16m 38s):
Once the games were underway is unconscionable. The fact that the testing agencies and all those who were involved, allowed it to just sit or whatever happened for a month and a half and then blow up and we're talking nuclear blow up at the Olympics is really hard to deal with. And, and that's where the investigation has to go as well. How'd she actually do in her events, the skating competition is divided into the short program and then the longer free skate and the short program, she still skated well enough, beautifully to go into first place.

5 (17m 24s):
When she got to the free skate, two days later, it was a disaster. She skated last, the stage was set for what many skating experts said would be a Russian sweep because her compatriots on a Shabaka and Alexandra , they were sitting in first and second. So we were all primed to have volley Ava skate, bump them down, and it would be Russia 1, 2, 3, and she was going to attempt three of the very difficult quadruple jumps, which the Russians are leading a revolution in, in women's sport. And so on our first one, it was shaky and then things just got worse stumbles falls, and it was an absolute disaster.

5 (18m 11s):
<em></em>

15 (18m 16s):
Russian Olympic committee figure skater, Camilla valley, Ava, failing to make the podium after falling several times during the free skate.

5 (18m 23s):
And I think everyone who watched will remember in the IOC president, Thomas Bach made note of this, what he called the chilling moment afterwards, when she was openly berated by her coaches, instead of being given comfort, part of the world saw that as horrific, the Russians of course shot back a Kremlin spokesman said it takes rough behavior to have the top athletes and to have winners. So basically saying that's what it takes to win an elite sport. Do we think we'll see her at the games again? It seems like a rough go. You know, that's to be determined, Sean, in a very interesting question, she trains with a very successful, but controversial coach named Atari <em></em> who also trained the two Russian metal winners in this event, toot breeds also trained the golden silver medalists at the 2018 Olympics.

5 (19m 17s):
So she's had a high success rate, but there are credible reports that she has questionable practices as far as strict dietary restrictions and working her scanners, see young bodies to the point where they are broken down before they turn 20. So will we see her again? That is to be determined, but I think definitely first what has to happen is she has to recover psychically from this whole thing. And then she has to have her case adjudicated about whether she intentionally doped or not. Of course it wasn't Russia or China or the United States who run the most metals here. It was Norway, Norway.

21 (20m 1s):
Well, I won't stand

5 (20m 2s):
For it. It was Norway. That's right. 37 total metals, a winter Olympics record 16 gold metals. I think it's a country of about 5 million people, but they just dominated countries with such larger populations. Where did Norway come from? They've been around, they've been around, it's a cold country, you know, sports like biathlon, cross country. These are huge. <em></em> when you're a kid, you, you, you know, aspire to be a Terez, yo hog, you know, the Norwegian who won three individual goals here, and one the last stole metals in the last cross country race that I watched, it was amazing race in the third 30 kilometer yesterday's Johann

14 (20m 54s):
And rather casually erase that she is utterly dominated imperious and Peerless out on the course she cried.

5 (21m 2s):
So they just do really well in these winter sports, all credit to them. Favorite moment from these Olympics. Did you have one? Was it Norway? I don't have one. I have a number. This was an Olympics to survive. I think certainly that was the IOC attitude here, but there were moments, you know, probably the first moment probably NBC glommed on to, because it was a great athlete moment when Julia marina, the snowboarder from the U S was sitting in first place until the very last competitor of the slopestyle event went. That was new Zealand's Zoe's Tedeschi Senate

22 (21m 40s):
And here down the bottom, what is she going to breed?

5 (21m 43s):
Did you have a great run into,

22 (21m 49s):
Hey, here goes massive on the bottom,

5 (21m 57s):
Won the gold and marina ran out and tackled her out of joy. And the bronze medalist from Australia test Cody joined in this Dogpile and it was just this, you know, it was one of those wonderful Olympic moments where I don't care if I didn't just win a gold. I think it's cool that you won and who doesn't love a moment like that. Mariah bell, the U S figure skater at 25, the only way people were describing her was she's the oldest us Olympian figure skater female figure skater since 1928.

23 (22m 29s):
She's the oldest ladies' national champion and 95 years. And also she's only 25, which does make you feel like you want to drop dead. When you hear that she is the oldest,

5 (22m 40s):
Then she skated a gorgeous, free skate. She looked joyous during and after, and she knew she wouldn't medal, but she was thrilled to have competed well and watching her coach, the great Adam Ripon. Who's hilarious jumping for joy next to the rink while she competed. That was really fun too. And, and what that does is lead into one of my favorite moments, which Sean is actually a quote from an Olympic athlete. The figure skating pairs, gold medalist. Her name is sway when DJing from China, okay. After she and her partner performed beautifully in the short program, she said this, and I'm going to quote it.

5 (23m 22s):
We feel like when we show our best selves to the world, the world belongs to us only during the several minutes, perhaps billions of people around the world are looking at us. That is the most honorable moment of our life. And I think what I loved about it is that illustrates so many experiences in Olympics of athletes who do well after training so hard and for many years in obscurity, and then the world watches the world cares about them for a few minutes and they do it. And it's an incredible triumph for these guys. And that's, that's what I loved about that quote.

1 (24m 8s):
And it's another reminder that if you put aside all the scandals and politics, there is something pure here to celebrate. I mean, we've spoken back to back Olympics now, Tom, about all the politics and the scandals and the controversies and the COVID. What have you gotten from covering these two? And I believe something like another dozen Olympics after so much controversy and so much politics. What is the fix here for these

5 (24m 38s):
Olympics? How about taking the IOC out of it? Which you know is crazy because the IOC says, if you put aside funding and all that, yes, they do politics. Well, find another funding mechanism find a really good celebrate management company or something like that. And then you cite is now lymphatics in a country that doesn't have the scandal, the season against the COVID people. What have you done with Tarion government? And I believe, Hey, does this have a great, so much spectical controversy, sports, so much politics, which is what people want to see for these Olympics. Don't want to be rolling their eyes constantly. When the international Olympic committee comes out with its grand juror and a holier than now, attitude about we are United colors of the world.

5 (25m 26s):
And look at all these people who signed the Olympic truths as if you're going to stop warfare and pestilence and horror in the world. You're not, we just want to watch a sports festival for two and a half weeks. We want a party and then get back to the misery of the world. That is my top of the head spit balling ideas, Shaun, without being thought out. And when the IOC hears it, they will say, we are banning this guy. Cause he's an idiot. He doesn't understand how it works, but take the bad part of this equation out. And let's just emphasize the good

1 (26m 15s):
Tom. You had a great run, 42 Olympics,

5 (26m 18s):
But I'm done

1 (26m 26s):
Tom Goldman. He does sports for national public radio. You can hear him on morning edition and the first podcasts occasionally I'm Sean Ramez from it's today explained our show today was produced by will read with help from Victoria Chamberlain edited by Matthew Collette engineered by Paul mousy and fact checked by Laura. The next Olympics are scheduled for 2024 in Paris. Instead of, you know, in a few months, Tom, we had a great run 40 Olympics. Tom Goldman. He does sports for national public radio. You can hear him on morning edition and the up first podcast.

1 (27m 8s):
Occasionally I'm Sean Rama's from its today explained our show today was produced by we'll read with help from Victoria Chamberlain edited by Matthew Collette engineered by Paul mousey and fact checked by Laura Bullard. The next Olympics are scheduled for 2024 in Paris, instead of, you know, in a few months.