0 (1s):
It's today explained, I'm no Will King. On October 18th, president Biden met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Tel Aviv.

1 (8s):
I come to Israel with a single message. You're not alone. You are not alone. As long as the United States stands And, we will stand forever. We'll not let you ever be alone.

0 (18s):
Now in that speech, Biden urged the protection of civilian lives in Gaza. Israel's military campaign in Gaza has since claimed many lives including those of around 3,600 kids. Biden's support for BB may be slipping at an event in Minneapolis. Last night a woman interrupted Biden's speech,

2 (37s):
Mr. President, oh my God, if you care about Jewish people as a rabbi, I need you to call for a ceasefire right now.

0 (44s):
And Biden responded, I think we need a pause. The White House said later. That's a pause to get hostages out and to get aid in. And then political reports today that Biden and his inner circle are saying Netanyahu's days are numbered.

4 (1m 7s):
This is today explained.

5 (1m 12s):
My name is Michael Koplow and I am the Chief Policy Officer at Israel Policy Forum, which is a policy research group that is dedicated to supporting American foreign policy toward a secure Jewish and Democratic Israel And. we believe that the way to do that is through an eventual to state outcome to the Israeli Palestinian conflict since really 1993 and what is known as the Oslo process, the thrust of American foreign policy toward Israel and the Palestinians has been to figure out how the two sides can actually get to this two state outcome. Where you will have Israel living inside secure borders.

5 (1m 56s):
You will have a state of Palestine that fulfills and respects legitimate Palestinian nationalism and you can resolve this conflict that has really been dominating the Middle East for decades.

0 (2m 8s):
So over the weekend, the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sent out a tweet at about 1:00 AM in the morning is real time. And then he deleted the tweet in it. He said his military leaders hadn't warned him about the possibility of an attack and he said they were in fact the ones responsible. He later apologized. But it seemed like a bit of a moment to have the Prime Minister of Israel publicly Blame his defense chiefs and then have to walk that back. What does that tell us about what is happening inside the Israeli government right now?

5 (2m 45s):
Prime Minister Netanyahu has been focused not only during this conflict but for years on figuring out how he can remain in power. And there have been a number of things that have challenged his hold on the premiership, not least of which are the fact that he is at the moment in the midst of a criminal trial on on three separate counts.

6 (3m 12s):
Now this has never happened in Israel before, that a sitting Prime Minister has been charged with offenses as serious as these Netanyahu is alleged to have used his power as the then communications Minister as well as Prime Minister to give regulatory benefits to a media magnate here. And in return, Netanyahu, according to the indictment, was demanding favorable coverage.

5 (3m 35s):
He's been able to survive that up until now. But the October 7th attacks were the most shocking event, I think it's fair to say in Israel's history on October 7th, you had 1400 Israelis killed in one day. And so this is seen as a monumental failure. And given that Prime Minister Netanyahu has been in power, with the exception of a year and a half interregnum since 2009, it's logical that many Israelis look at what happened and say that the Prime Minister must have some sort of responsibility for this. And the Prime Minister has been trying very hard to avoid saying that he is responsible.

5 (4m 20s):
And that's how we get to this tweet. And he deleted the tweet a couple of hours later and actually came out and apologized, which is relatively rare for Prime Minister Netanyahu. But it fed into this widespread perception that he is certainly consumed with fighting this war and and Israeli victory, but that he also seems to be consumed with doing what he can to avoid Blame and thinking about what his political career is gonna look like. On the other end,

0 (4m 53s):
The New York Times and other news outlets have reported that Israeli security officials tried to warn Netanyahu that his domestic policies were causing political turmoil and that that was weakening the country's security. If in fact that's true, what could that mean for Netanyahu? Politically

5 (5m 11s):
Netanyahu is in a real bind because Israelis do indeed view October 7th as an enormous failure. And it's very tough to be the Prime Minister who oversees something like this and survives. Now, one of the difficulties is that replacing an Israeli Prime Minister before a scheduled election who does not actually want to resign is exceedingly difficult. I think that in previous times, almost everybody would expect the Prime Minister as soon as the fighting is over to step down. And I don't think that we can assume that that will be the case with Prime Minister Netanyahu,

7 (5m 55s):
The only thing that I intend to have resigned Hamas, we're gonna resign them to the dustbin of history.

0 (6m 3s):
How would you describe Israel's military strategy in Gaza? What are the stated and maybe even unstated objectives here?

5 (6m 11s):
Israel wants to do two things. It wants to degrade Hamas' military capabilities and remove Hamas from power entirely. But whichever one of these it is, make sure that Hamas does not present a security threat to Israel going forward. and it also wants to secure the release of the nearly 250 hostages who are being held by Hamas, men, women, children, elderly, but it may not be effective in getting the hostages released. And back to Israel Safe and Sound, on the other hand, if you negotiate with Hamas for the hostages and the deal that Hamas has publicly floated is this idea of of what's being called in Israel all for all

8 (6m 57s):
Hamas requesting and saying that they would be happy to immediately release all of those held captive if and as long as all of the Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails are released. Of course there's more than 6,000 of them

5 (7m 13s):
That will get the hostages back. Presumably assuming that that deal is is actually a, a real offer. But it will probably mean that you have to at least temporarily suspend military operations. There still is majority support for ground operation, but it has lessened because most Israelis tend to think that if you want the hostages back, that's going to have to mean some sort of halt or cessation of the military operation in Gaza.

0 (7m 45s):
We don't know how long this war will last or in fact where it will lead. But with that in mind, how do you think this changes the legacy of the already controversial Benjamin Netanyahu?

5 (7m 59s):
Before this, Netanyahu was known as the longest serving Prime Minister in Israel's history. He was known as someone who dominated Israeli politics for decades. He was known as the person who really modernized Israel's economy as finance Minister in the early two thousands. And his nickname was Mr. Security because many Israelis saw him as being the greatest safeguard of Israeli safety. And he has also historically been a really cautious Prime Minister when it comes to the use of military force, the most cautious in Israel's history. And so he had this image, which I think in many ways was well earned of presiding over a period in which Israelis were not dealing with terrorism inside of Israel, in which Israel did not have to fight wars on its borders.

5 (8m 52s):
Since October 7th, Israelis have a very different view of him. Part of it is colored by what has happened over the past year where Prime Minister Netanyahu has not only been on trial, but he divided Israeli society in an unprecedented way through pushing through a judicial overhaul that was extremely controversial and that was also extremely unpopular. And now we have this unprecedented security disaster when Israel suffered. Its heaviest and and most damaging and most psychologically scarring blow in its history. And ultimately that is going to be his legacy.

0 (9m 36s):
It was Michael Koplow with the Israel policy. Forum Coming up. On today explained a father's view of this crisis.

Mozilla (9m 49s):
Support for today's show comes from IRL. It's a new show from Mozilla. For those of you who don't know what either of those things mean, I'll at least explain that IRL is is internet slang for in real life, there are a lot of folks working to bring you to stories about the real people behind ai. IRL is a show hosted by Bridget Todd, and their current season is all about people over profit. Some questions they tackle. How do you build truly trustworthy and responsible ai? Or what does innovation look like when trillion dollar companies and investors aren't calling all the shots and the people come first? In one episode of IRL, you'll hear the stories of people pushing back against companies that hired millions of quote unquote invisible workers, sometimes for as little as $2 an hour to review toxic disturbing content in order to keep it off of generative AI platforms like Chat, GPT, search for Mozilla IRL in your podcast player or visit IRL podcast.org.

Vox (11m 0s):
Hi, I'm Avishay Artsy and I'm one of the people whose names you hear in the credits of today explain. I helped produce our recent series, Blame Capitalism. We got into how companies became solely focused on profit, how the bank bailout launched populist movements on the left and the right and how amidst the climate crisis and growing inequality, many of us lost faith in capitalism's ability to meet our basic needs. If you appreciate these kinds of deeply nerdy, thoroughly researched and rigorously fact-checked conversations, then please support our work at Vox dot com slash give. And thank you

11 (11m 40s):
At you're listening to today explained,

12 (11m 49s):
My name is Noah Efron and I am a a Professor of Science and Technology Studies. I'm a candidate for Tel Aviv's City Council, and I am a podcaster, have a podcast called The Promised Podcast on Israeli politics and culture.

0 (12m 7s):
Noah, can you describe your political views? I understand you are on the left. What characterizes the Israeli left? What do you believe?

12 (12m 16s):
Well, I don't know if I can say that I'm completely representative of the left, but my views are that our future is somehow linked to the future of Palestinians here. And that any future that is safe and secure where we thrive can only happen if Palestinians are safe and secure and can thrive. And so that means necessarily and end to the occupation. In my mind, the future that I imagine and that I hope for is a future where there are two states side by side, Palestine and Israel.

12 (12m 57s):
you know, I'm a college professor, so obviously I'm a Marxist of some sort. I'm a socialist, right? And I'm pretty far to the left about, about economic issues, about issues of, of social and economic justice. I also identify as a Zionist. I believe strongly that there ought to be a Jewish state, whatever that means.

0 (13m 19s):
Now that you've sort of characterized where you sit and where you're coming from, I wanna ask you about the events of October 7th. So there is this brutal attack by Hamas on Israel. Where were you and how did you learn what had happened?

12 (13m 35s):
So at six 30 in the morning when the first missile attack siren went off, I was in bed and I got up and I gathered the dog Lucy, who shivers in terror from the sirens And. we went into the stairwell because our building was built in 1936 and does not have a fortified room And. we let the 10 minutes pass. And after that I got ready to go to services. And so I just ignored the fact that missiles had just fallen. But a little bit later my phone rang, and though I don't usually use the phone on the Sabbath, I saw that it was from my boy who was in college in California. And I figured that if he was calling on the Sabbath, not that it means anything to him, but he knows it means something to me.

12 (14m 18s):
It had to be an emergency. So I answered it and he told me that Haass fighters had poured into the farming villages and towns outside of Gaza. And he said that the news was saying that 22 people were killed, which was an un grasps ably high number for a terrorist attack. you know, six is terrible. And he told me that he'd already gotten a message from his reserve unit here calling him back to the country. So he was buying a ticket, could he have my credit card number to get on the first plane from LA to Tel Aviv? So, and at first I discouraged him saying, it sounds like it's a terrible terrorist attack, but won't it be over before he even gets there?

12 (15m 2s):
Is it worth coming? And he said, Abba, I'm coming. And after that, I began to scroll through the phone like almost everyone here and see this thing unfolding in front of my eyes on social media as people posted. Were in our fortified room, terrorists are outside the door, what should we do? Or we're in our fortified room and our house has been set on fire. Should we leave or should we stay? And people posting my, my son is down there, can anyone help him?

12 (15m 43s):
Will someone go to this kibbutz and find my son? And you're following these stories as they unfold from minute to minute over this long day. And the news says that it's not 22 people, but 45 people who were killed. And then it's 80 people and then it's 120 people. And then you start to see the very first videos that Hammas actually posted of people being thrown onto motorcycles and dragged back off to Gaza, unclear whether they're alive or dead. And my boy is on the way to the airport to come here so that he can be part of this.

12 (16m 26s):
And he's on an airplane and he's coming. and it was the saddest day of my life. And then the beginning of a period that still hasn't ended, that is the saddest period in my life When I went to the airport the next day to pick up the boy after his plane landed. And by then, you know, it was now I guess 36 hours since the thing had begun, then there was a lot more information. And the news really started to come in about that music festival outside of Kibbutz Rahim down in the south, where in the end we now know that somewhere between 260 and 280 people were killed.

12 (17m 16s):
And they, their pictures were starting to appear in social media. So I was scrolling through them and every one of them looked like my boy in that they were all in their early twenties, and they were all gorgeous. They were all illuminated from within in the way that young people are. By the time my boy came through and I hugged him, he just looked like, just exactly like any one of those 200 odd people who were, who were dead. And it was impossible to make sense of. And then you go into the days that followed were just days of funeral, after funeral after funeral.

12 (17m 59s):
Everywhere you looked, there was a picture. Everywhere you listened, there was a story. And of course, Israel being what it is, everyone went to school with someone whose brother or cousin or child was killed. And so there was no escaping it at all. And then because the state largely stopped functioning, didn't, it took days and days and days for the institutions of the state to address all the like huge needs of people living and dead immediately after the attack. Then we were all pushed into this kind of manic activity to help the people who needed help.

12 (18m 44s):
So a notice came over a WhatsApp group that they needed people to dig graves because of course they can't dig 1400 graves in two days. They need clothes, they need food. People going into the army need warm clothes. It became an economy of what is mine is yours. The meaning of property shifted in in no time at all, where suddenly, if somebody asked you, do you have a bed? Because there's a family that needs to sleep all night in the hospital near their eight year old who lost his leg, then you gave the mattresses that you had, and there was this feeling as though the world has ended and there is a new world there, and the grief is enormous overpowering, but the need is the only thing that there is that's bigger than that.

12 (19m 42s):
And I pick up my boy at the airport and take him home to change his clothes and then take him right to the army. And 36 hours before that, he's a college kid at USC, and now he's a soldier going down to outside Gaza to join his unit. And God knows what will happen. And I am insane with worry. I mean, I don't use that word insane as an intensifier. It's precise. I have lost my witts with worry about that boy who I seem to have grown fond of over his 22 years and, and I don't know what to do with myself.

0 (20m 24s):
Hmm. Noah, I hear you saying you are insane with worry in Israel. You have a son involved in this military campaign. And so I wanna ask you about what has happened since this awful attack. Israel then launches a ground invasion into Gaza. That invasion is controversial, which you know, are you in support of this response by your government?

12 (20m 54s):
If you ask me if I think it's the best and most proper thing for my government to have done, then my answer is I just don't know. But if you ask, like you did ask, am I in support of the invasion now that it is underway, then the answer is yes and a word about that. Because a lot of people think that the aim of this invasion is to seek revenge, and it is not. I've been to these Shivas where parents are talking about their dead children, and I have heard no one use the word revenge at all. I, I know that a lot of people think that Israelis are unaware or uncaring about the numbers of Palestinians killed by this invasion, which as I speak to you today is about 9,000.

12 (21m 44s):
But by the time people hear this, it will be even higher, which is such a huge number. And every Palestinian civilian killed is a tragedy. Every one is a whole world and every kid killed. There is its own kind of cataclysm, just like every innocent Jew killed. But this war, as I think most all Israelis, see, it is not a war against Palestinian civilians. It is against Hamas. And Hamas is a brutal fundamentalist death cult that has said for decades that they will stop at nothing until Israel is destroyed.

12 (22m 24s):
They made me believe them. and it might be the case that so long as Hamas remains, no one in this region, not Jews, not Palestinians will ever know peace. And if that is the case, it is possible. Though I don't know to say that it's true that by some infernal calculus, it might be best in the long run to destroy Hamas, even though hundreds of Israelis will die doing it and thousands and thousands of Palestinians.

0 (22m 56s):
Did this attack change your beliefs at all? Did it change the beliefs of the left?

12 (23m 1s):
I think that for most of the left, it shattered the illusion that we are fellow travelers with most of the left in America and in Europe, who seem to have a hard time saying without equivocating that burning babies is bad in all circumstances as an absolute, or that taking nine month olds or 90 year olds as captives is wrong. I think that the realization that we are working from a very, very different moral system than the leftist abroad is something profound. I think that maybe we'll understand those deep, deep, deep existential fears that a lot of other Israelis who don't find it so easy to say, we must end the occupation and the sooner the better feel and that change, I think would also only be for the, for the better.

0 (23m 54s):
Hmm, okay. I've seen polling, as I'm sure you have, suggesting that Israelis are very unhappy with how the government handled this situation. Both what was happening before and what's happening now. What do you think this translates to politically? Does this translate to the ouster in an election of Benjamin Netanyahu? Does it translate to something sooner than that? Where do you think this is headed politically?

12 (24m 18s):
Well, I think that it definitely leads to the ouster of Benjamin ello to the end of his premiership and political career. The only question is when will it come only after the guns have fallen silent or will it come while the war is still underway? And I think that we will hear more and more calls for Netanyahu's immediate resignation while the war is still happening, which would be unprecedented here, where we tend to close ranks whenever there's anything like a war or an attack. But then everything about our situation is completely unprecedented.

12 (24m 60s):
Now,

0 (25m 4s):
Do you think Israel will be changed forever by this attack on October 7th? Can it be the same country that it was

12 (25m 13s):
Well changed? Yes. I mean, I think that the, just the grief and the pain of 1400 murders will leave a mark that will never entirely fade. When historians look back on this, the question of whether this was a point at which history turned even for the worse or history turned for the better. I think that that is an open question and that is a question that it remains in our hands to determine. And I think that we will continue forward changed, but not necessarily worse, save for all the suffering that will, that will follow us for generations.

0 (25m 59s):
That was Noah Efron. He hosts the promised podcast and he's a professor at Baran University in Israel. Today's show was produced by Abishai Artsy and Amanda Luellen. It was edited by Miranda Kennedy and fact checked by Laura Bullard. David Herman was our engineer. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.