0 (1s):
It was a very big weekend for the war between Israel and Hamas war. But for the first time in 50 days of fighting, it wasn't because of killing. Old ladies were being safe. Little kids were being safe.

3 (21s):
Voice your voice, your voice.

0 (28s):
Palestinian prisoners were coming home. Ty, farmers were going home and Coming up. On today explained none of this would've been possible or not. For Qatar.

Vanta (1m 0s):
Support for today's show comes from Vanta. If you're building a business, then achieving compliance with frameworks like SOC two and ISO 27 0 0 1 might help you win bigger deals, enter new markets, and deepen trust with customers. but it can also cost you time and money. Vanta wants you to know that it automates compliance and simplifies security. In fact, Vanta customers report saving up to 400 hours of work and 85% of associated costs. To learn more about what this is, how Vanta works, and to claim a special offer, visit Vanta dot com slash explained. That's VANT a.com/explained.

Leave the World Behind (1m 42s):
A Netflix original film. The wifi is working In the event of a global communications breakdown, do the following. Stay inside. What just happened here is happening everywhere. Avoid strangers. We've all been deserted. I don't trust them. And most importantly, do not panic. Julia Roberts. What happens next? Mahershala Ali, I knew something was coming. Leave the world behind. Rated R in select theaters now and on Netflix, December 8th,

6 (2m 18s):
You're listening to today, explained

0 (2m 22s):
Tia Goldenberg is an Associated press reporter based in Tel Aviv. She joined us this morning for the latest on these hostage deals. We started with October 7th,

7 (2m 33s):
So at six 30 in the morning on October 7th, slowly reports come in that hundreds of Hamas war militants have blasted their way out of the Gaza strip and have rampaged through communities in southern Israel.

8 (2m 48s):
Harrowing images we are seeing on social media of bodies, both Israeli civilians and soldiers in the streets,

7 (2m 55s):
And they've gone door to door, essentially, and these quiet, communal farming communities and have either killed people. There are up to about at least 1200 people killed, and they take 240 people captive. There

8 (3m 12s):
Are both Israeli soldiers and Israeli civilians who have been taken captive inside of Israel and then taken back over the border into Gaza. And they are now in captivity under the control of Hamas war and Palestinian Islamic Jihad inside of Gaza and

7 (3m 29s):
Christ. We're talking about men, women, children, the elderly, hostages as young as nine months old and as old as, you know, late eighties, and they're dragged into Gaza by golf cart, by motorcycle, by car, by foot. And this sets off the war that we're currently seeing.

0 (3m 55s):
And, and does negotiation for their release begin immediately? And, and if so, who is involved in those negotiations?

7 (4m 2s):
The negotiations according to our reports begin shortly after, not quite immediately, but shortly after. And they're moderated by primarily Qatar, Egypt and the United States. And they pretty much two weeks into the war really kick into high gear. And they've been working on this current truce since then. And it's come up in various iterations that either side has either, you know, pulled back from or rejected, but it was accepted last week on Wednesday, and that's what set off the current deal to get started on Friday.

0 (4m 34s):
Tell us what exactly this deal is.

7 (4m 37s):
So Hamas war and Israel agreed to a four day truce that would mean neither side is fighting. Israeli jets are not striking. Hamas is not firing rockets

9 (4m 46s):
In exchange for 50 hostages, 150 Palestinian prisoners, including some women and teenagers, will be released by Israel. The Red Cross will be given access to the hostages still held while humanitarian aid will get to the people of Gaza three to 400 trucks a day. And fuel

7 (5m 5s):
On the side of this deal where deals negotiated by Thailand, which has a significant amount of its citizens who are working here, who were also taken captive And. it turns out that Russia also had a deal to release a dual Israeli Russian citizen.

0 (5m 22s):
What do we know about who's been freed so far? We're speaking 8:00 AM Monday morning, east coast time.

7 (5m 28s):
So there have been three batches of hostage releases since Friday. We're talking about women and children primarily. They've mostly been released in kind of family batches. So you've had a mother, a grandmother, and a nine-year-old who were freed altogether. You've had two sisters freed together. There was a four year old Israeli American. She was actually three when she was taken captive, and she recently celebrated her fourth birthday in captivity.

10 (6m 0s):
You know, her mom was killed in front of her when her, when her kibbutz was attacked by Hamas war terrorist on October 7th. Abigail ran to her dad then, who then was gunned down, gunned down as well, while using his body to shield l Abigail.

7 (6m 17s):
And as I said, you've also seen Thai foreign nationals who were released, a Filipino caretaker who was living at one of these communal farms released. And so in exchange for all of these hostages, Israel agreed to release about 150 Palestinians who are imprisoned in its jails. Israel, imprisons, about 7,000 Palestinians that it considers security prisoners. Now, as part of the deal, Israel agreed to release p people who are imprisoned for mostly minor offenses. We're talking rock throwing. We're talking vague charges like terrorism affiliation.

0 (6m 55s):
What condition were all of these hostages in? From the Israelis to the Palestinians, to the, the ti, the Filipino, the American.

7 (7m 2s):
So in terms of the details about the hostages conditions, the hostages have been largely kept away from the public eye, but details are starting to emerge.

11 (7m 10s):
She's lost a lot of weight from her face and body, but generally doing better than we expected.

7 (7m 18s):
They've come out mostly in good physical condition, except for one woman who has been being treated in hospital now for life-threatening issues that doctors say because she wasn't treated properly in Gaza. And we don't have too many details on that. Hmm. The, the families of the hostages are saying they were kept in something like a, a reception room or a reception area. They used plastic chairs and pushed them together for beds. They were given meager amounts of food like bread and rice. And in some cases, some, some of the children came back and told and were, and told their relatives that they were, they were told to whisper and keep quiet.

7 (8m 2s):
I spoke to a nephew of one of the, the hostages released who said that his aunt had to readjust to sunlight because she had been underground for so long and, and couldn't, couldn't get, couldn't get used to, to that amount of light. In terms of the Palestinian prisoners, Israel keeps these prisoners in, in jails where their conditions are. Israel says humane. The Palestinians say that this isn't the case, that there's accusations that Israel during interrogations, for instance, treats them inhumanely. Israel also has this, t use uses this tactic called administrative detention, which allows it to hold prisoners without charge or due process, which means you have people languishing in jail for an indeterminate amount of time based on intelligence that isn't publicly available.

7 (8m 57s):
So, you know, all of the prisoners came out looking good in, in good physical condition, but obviously there's criticism about the way Israel holds. Its, its prisoners. We haven't actually heard too much from, from the tis yet at this point, either they're also in Israeli hospitals and are being sent back to Thailand.

0 (9m 15s):
Obviously, there's gonna be more negotiation about further hostage releases. Do we know how many hostages remain and when they're gonna get exchanged?

7 (9m 26s):
Well, as part of this current deal, Israel and Hamas both left, left, open the door to extend the truce. Israel says it'll hold fire for 24 hours, so long as Hamas releases 10 hostages a day. We know that after this current truce and the hostage releases, as well as some previous releases that were, were, were just, were, we're minor. There are now about 175 hostages still in Gaza. And initially there were 240. The people that remain, we don't know the exact figure. Hamas isn't saying who it's held, it isn't saying how many children.

7 (10m 7s):
And there are still some people that Israel considers missing that it doesn't know whether they're in Gaza or, or dead. So the estimation is there are about 40 children that Hamas war and other militant groups held a, a chunk of that has of those have been released in this, this exchange. But there may still be more. There are women, there are young adults who are attending the music festival in Southern Israel that got overrun by Hamas war on October 7th. There are soldiers who are seen by Hamas war as a key key bargaining chip with Israel. And there are still elderly men and some elderly women who remain.

0 (10m 47s):
You know, I I've seen videos of hostages on both sides of this war being paraded through the streets like rock stars. People are cheering. There's motorcades, there's, there's waving of Israeli flags on the other side. There's waving of Hamas war flags. Does this exchange help Hamas war politically? And and on the other side, does it help Benjamin Netanyahu politically

7 (11m 10s):
Israel and Hamas war have engaged in prisoner swaps in the past? Hamas has taken famously in, in 2006, took the Israeli soldier Gilad Shali captive for five years and exchanged him for about a thousand Palestinians imprisoned in in Israel. Not all Palestinians support Hamas war, of course, but Palestinians cherish the people who are being held by Israel. They're seen as heroes. They're seen as fighting Israel's occupation and for Hamas war to achieve their release, which is essentially seen as the only way to get them out of Israeli prisons. That does bol bolster how Palestinians view Hamas in the West Bank and in Gaza in terms of Benjamin Netanyahu.

7 (11m 50s):
Israelis are overwhelmingly behind freeing the hostages. This is, they, they were deeply scarred by, by what happened on October 7th. And it's become a big rallying cry for Israelis to have the, all of the hostages freed. But when it comes to Benjamin Netanya, it's complicated. He was mired in criticism before the war started, and since the war started, his approval rating has just plummeted. So freeing the hostages, this doesn't necessarily help Benjamin Netanyahu, who was struggling politically before in any case, but it does give Israelis a little bit more confidence in their security establishment that they can achieve the goals of this war.

0 (12m 36s):
And of course, one of those stated goals, I think there's only two of them. One is get the hostages back, the other is destroy Hamas war. But you just told us that this is seen as a huge win for Palestinians, that Hamas got all of these Palestinians back. How do you think that factored into the calculation here for the people negotiating this ceasefire and this hostage exchange for, for Qatar?

7 (12m 59s):
I think that there was no way these hostages could stay in there much longer. And I don't think Israel took that too much into account. Its stated goal is to destroy Hamas war. And so I don't think Israeli negotiators care very much what, what this does to Palestinian public opinion. They want Hamas destroyed as their next step or, or eventual final step in this war. And so it was crucial for Israel to, to free the hostages regardless of, of what that meant for, for Hamas' position.

0 (13m 36s):
Tia Goldenberg is with the ap. We spoke with her Monday morning around noon. We got news that Israel and Hamas had agreed to extend their ceasefire for another two days. That news, of course, came from Qatari mediators Qatar when we're back. On today explained Support for the show.

Into the Mix (14m 20s):
It comes from into the mix. It's a Ben and Jerry's podcast about joy and justice produced with Vox creative. In April, 2023, the Grassy Narrows First Nations celebrated a major victory by order of the Canadian government. No logging companies may enter their territory without permission. Chrissy Isaacs was one of the organizers who made this possible. It started one December night in 2002 when she and other young indigenous people blocked the only road leading into their territory. More than 20 years later, that blockade is still going on. Chrissy says, this wasn't just about forcing one of the largest logging companies in the world to forfeit its license to log in the area for her, it was about healing after generations of mercury poisoning and environmental exploitation linked to the logging industry. Hear that story on the latest episode of Into the Mix. Subscribe now.

Mint Mobile (15m 20s):
Support For the show today comes from Mint Mobile. You can give yourself the gift of savings this holiday season with Mint Mobile's best wireless deal of the year. I know what you're thinking. What's the deal? Well, right now, when you switch to Mint Mobile and by any three month plan, you'll get another three months for free. Believe it or not, that's six months of wireless service for the price of Three Plus Mint Mobile lets you order and activate from home while saving you money on phone plans. They start at just $15 a month. If. you can believe it for a limited time. You can buy any three month Mint mobile plan and get three more months free by going to mint mobile.com/explained. That is mint mobile.com/explained. Cut your wireless bill to 15 bucks a month at mint mobile.com/explained today.

1 (16m 29s):
Explained Ramis Firm, the most important player in these hostage negotiations has been Qatar, who you might best remember from last year's World Cup. We wanted to find out how they became the hostage negotiation. VIP. So he got in touch with Joel Simon.

12 (16m 45s):
I'm the founding director of the Journalism Protection Initiative at the Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalism at the City University of New York.

0 (16m 53s):
Before he ended up there, Joel spent 25 years at the Committee to protect journalists.

12 (16m 59s):
And unfortunately, kidnapping is an occupational hazard for journalists.

0 (17m 4s):
So Joel has spent decades thinking about hostages and hostage negotiation. He's written a book about it, and he just wrote about Qatar's role in this war for the New Yorker. We asked him if people should be surprised to see Qatar at the center of these negotiations between Israel and Hamas war. Well,

12 (17m 21s):
I don't think they should be surprised if they've followed the hostage issue. And I admit we're a pretty small subset of people who think about this and look at this regularly. But the reality is that Qatar has been playing this role for, you know, 20 years. Every time there's a kidnapping in, certainly in the Middle East, you know, the the conduit for trying to negotiate the release was often through Doha in, in Qatar. So, you know, they've sort of seen this as part of a broader strategy of having relationships and being able to talk to all parties. But, but you know, they've been at the center of this for, for decades now, and they've been kind of developing their, their, their capabilities and building their relationships that are necessary to, you know, achieve success.

0 (18m 12s):
How did they become, you know, positioned at the center of hostage negotiation?

12 (18m 17s):
Qatar has sort of as a, as a kind of strategy to increase security from their perspective and gain influence and visibility in what they consider to be a volatile region has sort of adopted this posture of active neutrality, you could sort of call it that And, it, it's sort of, you could think of it as like, or they, they think of it, you know, as kind of the Switzerland of the Gulf. In Qatar's case, the defense is really the fact that it Hosts the, you know, one of the largest US military bases in the Middle East. And so that gives it a kind of, you know, a a a strong disincentive for regional adversaries to get too aggressive. Hmm. And at the same time, what it tries to do is sort of position itself to have relationships with all parties.

12 (19m 3s):
So it has a relationship with Iran, it's had relationships or the ability to communicate certainly. And some have alleged active support for jihadi groups that have been, you know, that have acted, been active in, in, in Syria and Iraq. It had relationships with the Taliban and Afghanistan. So when there were kidnapping and hostage taken, carried out by the Taliban or the Haqqani network, which was associated with the Taliban in Afghanistan, you know, the Qatari were the conduit through which you could resolve these cases. And they were, they were very willing to play this role because it was consistent with their strategic vision and their, their, their sense that by having relationships with all parties, they could better protect their own security.

0 (19m 51s):
And obviously now that there is a deal, Qatar gets to be something of a hero. But this took weeks upon weeks and thousands upon thousands of Zens died in the interim. How effective do you think they ultimately were?

12 (20m 9s):
Oh, I, I think we, we really can't pin that on the Qatari at all. You know, depending on, you know, the version of the accounts that you, that you hear, you know, there, there, there was a deal in place in on, on October 23rd. And I, I would say, based on my reporting, the Qatari were on this from day one. It's obviously extremely complicated undertaking. And you know, it was really, I mean, there's some, there's some dispute over who blew up the deal, but it blew up on October 25th. My Qatari sources, you know, kind of say that the, the, the Israelis were more intransigent, the final demand. They had a tentative deal in place to release 50 hostages and the final demand.

12 (20m 49s):
And by the way, that that deal did not involve the release of prisoners, Palestinian prisoners And. it also did not involve a firm agreement for a cease fire. It was more of an understanding that there would be a pause in hostilities to allow the transfer hostages. So If, you look at it from that perspective, it was actually a better deal for the Israelis. But the Israelis had a final demand, and that was that they wanted a list of all the, the, the hostages that would be released or that were being held. And the, the Hamas representative, the political representative who was leading the negotiation in Doha, basically said, that's gonna take time. You know, these, these hostages are scattered, some are held by different groups, and we need a pause in the hostilities in order to be able to, to con to collect those names and, and provide them to you.

12 (21m 38s):
Well, the Israelis interpreted this as a stalling tactic, and they said, you know, no deal. This was October 25th. And literally with within hours of that deal collapsing, the Israelis began the ground invasion and, and the disruption in communication. So, you know, the Israelis made a decision at that point that, you know, they were gonna proceed with the military operation. And, you know, it took weeks and weeks for the, for the, for the hostage negotiations to get back on track.

0 (22m 8s):
So it, it seems here being at the center of this international negotiation that the whole world is watching right now can really serve to benefit and, and shore up the Qatari reputation. Is is that a cynical thing to say?

12 (22m 23s):
I don't think it's cynical at all. I mean, I think that's, that's, that's, you know, states operate based on state interests. I mean, you know, when I talk to my Qatari contacts, you know, they stress the humanitarian aspect of this. And I'm sure that that, that plays a role certainly for the people who are involved directly in the negotiation, you know, and supporting it. That's very satisfying to feel, you're, you're, you're serving a humanitarian purpose. But that's not what guides states. States are guided by state interests. And you have to sort of probe and ask yourself, you know, why would a state do this? And I, I do believe that, you know, the, the Qataris have used different strategies to increase their visibility and influence around the world.

12 (23m 6s):
These include things like subsidizing Al Jazeera, the regional broadcast Arabic language network that's based in Doha and is supported by the Qatari government. They've also, of course, you know, hold us through the international sporting events like the, you know, the World Cup. And, you know, they've spread their money all over the world. And, and so they're always looking for strategies that increase their visibility and influence. And, you know, they're also involved. They're, they've been, there's a history of regional tensions, and so they, they perceive their abil, you know, it's being useful. As one of the people I talked to for the, for the New Yorker article, described it to me, you know, being useful to great powers being not just useful, but in some cases indispensable.

12 (23m 49s):
You know, for a small country, that's a pretty good position to be in. It's

0 (23m 53s):
Interesting to think about this country being friends with everybody. And what that would entail right now is being friends with both Hamas and Israel at a time where there couldn't be more enmity between those two groups.

12 (24m 6s):
Yeah. Well, I mean, that's, that's what mediation is all about. And I mean, I should point out that, you know, hostage taking is a cruel crime. And because I've been reporting on it for so many years, I've, I've spoken to many people, been taking hostage, I've spoken to the families, many, many, many families. It is, it is, it is truly a devastating experience. It's also a violation of international humanitarian law. But you know, what I've seen over time is that it's, it's such a, such a horrible crime that governments engage in a kind of posturing. They say, we will not negotiate, we don't negotiate with terrorists. We're they, they, they, they get all, you know, kind of aggressive militarily, and they say, we're gonna rescue the hostages, or we're gonna solve this problem through military means.

12 (24m 47s):
But the reality is, hostage crisis are not solved by sloganeering. They're not solved by, you know, military efforts, except in very rare occasions, they're solved by negotiation. That's how, that's how these hostage crises are resolved. And so you need a reliable interlocutor. They're talking to each other through intermediaries in order to resolve this crisis. It gives some glimmer of hope that that dialogue can lead to something deeper and more lasting that would somehow reduce the level of violence. I, I don't know if that's possible, but, you know, I do think that there's some glimmer of hope, which, which might not have existed before this deal was done.

0 (25m 39s):
Joel Simon is the author of, we Want to Negotiate The Secret World of Kidnapping, hostages and Ransom. Find It Wherever you Find your Books. Our program today was produced by Victoria Chamberlin and Isabel Angel. They had help from Amina Ade Laura, Bullard Amanda, Lou Wellen, Patrick Boyd, and Rob Byers. This is today Explained.