0 (2s):
Life in the barricades. It's hard. I, I'll say that. It's hard not seeing people and not leaving.

1 (8s):
15 year old Ty Larson updates his TikTok followers every day from inside of his bedroom. The room is full of teenage boy stuff, computer, guitar, board games. Also his little sister, 12 year old Brin Lee

0 (20s):
Brinley is doing good. She is sleeping. She sleeps nonstop. It's a way to cope if you learn about psychology. That's

1 (29s):
Ty and Brin Lee have been barricaded inside of that bedroom since last December. They're refusing to leave it because a judge says they must reunite with their father and they say their father abused them. Now the judge believes the kids are victims of parental alienation that Ty and Brin, Lee's mom has poisoned them against their father Coming up on today explained what the story of these two children exposes about family courts.

3 (1m 0s):
The Coca-Cola company, Keurig, Dr. Pepper and PepsiCo are bringing consumers more choices with less sugar than ever before. In fact, nearly 60% of beverages sold contain zero sugar. Visit balance us.org to learn more.

4 (1m 18s):
Have you heard about the feud between Selena Gomez and Haley Bieber?

5 (1m 23s):
I was actively scrolling away from every video that was related to Haley or Selena or Justin, and I was still getting served video after video after video about it. So at some point, yeah, you're gonna get dragged into whatever drama is happening inside of that app, whether you like it or not,

4 (1m 41s):
TikTok and celebrities and why we can't escape their drama. This week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast,

1 (1m 58s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. Hannah Dreyfuss is an Abrams reporting fellow for ProPublica. Hannah investigates abuses of power in many places, including in family court, and that's how she ended up looking into the story of these two kids, Ty and Brinley. Here's Hannah.

6 (2m 14s):
I was on TikTok. I saw a video of Ty Larson.

0 (2m 19s):
Hey guys, I got a story I need to tell you guys about my life.

6 (2m 22s):
He's a 15 year old living in Utah, and he was on a live stream and talking to his TikTok followers about why he and his sister Brinley had decided to barricade themselves in their bedroom for at that point a number of weeks.

0 (2m 40s):
I'm so afraid I haven't even left my room. I wait till it's dead silent and I know I'm safe to leave and hurry, go to the bathroom. And for food, we get food delivered to our front, our door right here, and I wait until everybody leaves and then I'll get

6 (2m 55s):
It. So what Ty is telling his TikTok followers is that he's barricaded inside this bedroom because there's a court judge who has ordered him into the custody of his biological father, despite the fact that he and his younger sister have both made claims that the father sexually and emotionally abused them. The

0 (3m 17s):
Court has been trying to put us through reunification, and reunification really only works for really young kids. It never works for teenagers like me.

6 (3m 25s):
Ty and Brin, Lee's mom, Jessica and their father were married when they were younger. They got divorced and until about 2018, Ty and Brinley were in part-time custody with their father and mother.

0 (3m 43s):
I was abused by my father, physically, sexually and emotionally. This all started when I was about three years old and went till I was about 10 for my little sister. She was three to seven

6 (3m 54s):
And the mom not knowing what to do, brought them to the Department of Children and Family Services in Utah, which investigates claims of abuse to try and involve authorities in the situation and to figure out what was going on. Investigators interviewed them forensically, which means they interviewed them to understand more about their disclosures, and they concluded that the children were credible and that the abuse that they were describing, there was a very high likelihood that it did take place in the D C S F paperwork. They described the abuse as chronic and severe, meaning that it wasn't just a one-off, but that this is a pattern of behavior that they feared was taking place towards the children multiple times.

6 (4m 38s):
The courts signed what's called a child protective order, which is akin to a restraining order that prevented the father from being in contact with his kids. So at that point, they, they pause visitation with their dad for some time.

1 (4m 53s):
So the two kids report abuse Utah. Authorities confirm the abuse. They say the kids' allegations are supported. How does that then lead to these two children barricading themselves in a room after being ordered to see their father?

6 (5m 10s):
There was initially a case opened a criminal case to see if the father would or could be prosecuted for these crimes. For a criminal conviction, you have a very high standard of evidence beyond a reasonable doubt, which is very difficult to come by, especially in a case of sexual abuse. And because the district attorney decided that there wasn't necessarily enough evidence to convict the father, the district attorney put the case on hold. And so the father was no longer facing criminal allegations that he had sexually abused his kids. At that point, the father decided that he wanted to have visitation with his kids, and so he petitioned the court to continue having custody rights with his children.

6 (5m 54s):
And the court decided that reunification therapy was the best way to go about this. This is a type of therapy that the court will sometimes order when children are resistant or refusing to see their parent for a variety of reasons. Sometimes kids are resisting or refusing to see a parent because they think the parent abused them or the parent did in fact abuse them. So in Tyann Brin's case, they were encouraged by a mental health professional to forgive their father and to move forward and put what happened in the past behind them and continue a relationship with him going forward. When the kids continued to be resistant to being in their father's custody, the father stepped up his efforts to take back custody of the kids, and that's where we get into the claims of parental alienation.

1 (6m 44s):
What does parental alienation mean?

6 (6m 46s):
So parental alienation is the concept that one parent can alienate a child's affections for the other parent, meaning one parent actually can cause a child usually in the context of a custody dispute, to not want to have anything to do with the other parent.

1 (7m 6s):
Okay, so the dad is making an explosive claim. I didn't do anything to my kids. Their mother has poisoned them against me. I'm thinking if I'm the judge, I look at this and I say, well, the kids claims of abuse were found to have been supported. What ends up happening,

6 (7m 22s):
What they did next is they appointed on the recommendation of the father's attorney a mental health professional. She's a social worker in Utah. Her name is Michelle Jones, and she is a major public advocate for this concept of parental alienation.

7 (7m 38s):
It's a steady stream of negative messaging to the child that everything that other parent does is bad, wrong, stupid contemptible, and an indication that the parent doesn't love the child. Sadly, many mental health and legal professionals are untrained, but even when a judge sees it, they don't know what to do about

6 (8m 1s):
It. When they would try and tell Ms. Jones that they had been abused by their father, and that is why they did not want to return to his custody, she would basically say What happened in the past, we should leave in the past. Let's ignore the fact that that may or may not have happened, and encourage the children to disregard their previous experiences in order to move forward and forge a new relationship with their father. And what Michelle Jones told the court in no uncertain terms after meeting with these kids on various occasions, that they were in fact not victims of their father for sexual assaulting them, but that they are victims of their mother for psychologically manipulating them to believe that they've been abused.

6 (8m 41s):
And Michelle Jones encouraged the court to force the kids back into full custody of their father.

1 (8m 47s):
I see, okay. And what happened then?

6 (8m 50s):
It began to be a standoff between the kids and the court. The kids continued to tell their truth, which is that our father abused us. This was investigated by state authorities and found to be the case. And now all of a sudden a court judge is choosing to ignore that and to force us back into the full custody of our father. The family court judge in this case wrote You kids are not in control. You do not get to control who your parents are. You do not get to control who you see. The court is telling you that you have to go back into custody of your father for your own good and you better listen or they're gonna be extreme consequences.

6 (9m 31s):
The court actually ordered late last year that the kids attend what's called a reunification camp. This is actually out-of-state facility where the kids would be forced to participate in intensive therapy with their father and they wouldn't be able to bring any devices with them, no phones, no any sort of methods of contact with the outside world. And they also would be prohibited from contacting their mom not only for the week when they were participating in this intensive reunification therapy, but also for 90 days after they returned from this program and were entered into the full custody of their father.

6 (10m 17s):
Now, the very strange thing about this case is that if you look closely at the court orders, the judge, the family court judge who ordered that these kids return into the custody of their father, did not give the father total unrestricted custody. In fact, the court judge said that the father would not be able to spend overnights or unsupervised parenting time with his children. So clearly the court had some reservations about giving the father completely unfettered access to his children. However, they still believed the children needed to be removed from their mother's custody because of the psychological harm that the father said she was imposing on the kids.

1 (11m 0s):
Hannah, tell me about the judge in this case, Derek Poland. How did he make his decision?

6 (11m 6s):
He's a well-respected judge in Utah. So the judge said, look, I'm relying on this mental health professional who says she knows a lot about this condition. I'm a judge. I'm not a mental health professional. I'm gonna rely on what Ms. Jones is telling me is going on here, which is that the kids weren't actually abused or we don't know if they were sexually abused. But what we do see is that they're being psychologically abused by mom.

1 (11m 32s):
Okay, and what does mom say during all of this? What? What has her response been?

6 (11m 36s):
The way she describes it to me is she's watched this narrative develop around her and she has almost no control to fight it. Anything that she does in response is wrong. If she tries to say that her kids are entitled to tell their truth, then she's criticized for continuing to psychologically manipulate them. If she doesn't say anything, she's accused of being a negligent mom. There's sort of a catch 22 here where just her existence is a crime because she is somehow encouraging her kids to continue doing this, and by even bringing them food up in their barricaded room, she is encouraging them to continue to reject the father, and the court is holding her in contempt for this.

1 (12m 25s):
What has been happening to these two kids? What have their lives been like in that bedroom and what do you expect will happen next?

6 (12m 37s):
They are terrified of leaving their room because they know that they are under a court order to go into the custody of their father. That police have been authorized to use reasonable force to take them there, and then if their mom tries to protect them in any way, she will be held in contempt of court and face jail time. They are live streaming around the clock.

0 (12m 60s):
I wanted to also give a mini update. I'm still in this room, still barricaded, still haven't left. I'm still over live on Twitch. So please go over there and watch me just say hi.

6 (13m 12s):
Ty told me that the reason that they decide to turn to TikTok is because if the public is watching, then maybe they have some protection against what they believe is a terrible injustice that's going on, and that public outrage will consider the courts to reconsider what they're asking them to do. The school has accommodated their situation and they are taking some online school, and the question of what happens next is truly unknown. I have infrequently worked on a story that's developing in in real time in this way where I, myself, the reporter on the case don't know what's gonna happen next. I do think that the public pressure of all of this being under scrutiny now online and beyond has perhaps given the children more of a voice in this case than many other kids who face similar situations in family Court

1 (14m 11s):
Ahead. Hannah Dreyfus comes back with the surprising story of where this concept of parental alienation came from.

9 (14m 26s):
Have you guys heard of the pitch? It's a podcast you may have previously heard advertised on this show, and you are actually currently hearing it advertised on this show right now. The Pitch is a podcast where real entrepreneurs pitch real tech investors for real money and it's back for a real new season. Each episode follows a hopeful entrepreneur through their business pitch before a panel of prospective investors. Founders have raised over 10 million on this show from some legendary early stage investors. Several of these startups are worth hundreds of millions of dollars today. Money, money, money, money.

9 (15m 6s):
This season you'll hear pitches on everything from a better catch up to a potential solution to one of the biggest problems of our time. That would be energy. Listeners could hear the next billion dollar idea way before anyone else and learn about the world of startup investing along the way. You can follow the pitch to hear new episodes every Wednesday.

10 (15m 30s):
Hi, it's Phoebe Judge, host of the podcast Criminal. We've got some exciting news. We're now bringing you more episodes than ever before. Four times a month we're sharing true stories about people who've done wrong, been wronged, or gotten caught somewhere in the middle.

11 (15m 47s):
I never did anything wrong. I never had a speeding ticket, so I think I just saved all my stuff up for just one thing.

10 (15m 55s):
Stories told by people who know them best, like a group of friends who broke into an FBI building or a man who figured out how to negotiate with his father's kidnappers. Your

12 (16m 7s):
Ultimate goal is to convince them that they've milked you for everything you're worth.

10 (16m 13s):
From lotto scams to black market bourbon to the accidental death of a rare and beautiful fish, we bring you stories about the most curious crimes around discover the unexpected side of true crime. Listen to criminal. Wherever you get your podcasts,

1 (16m 34s):
It's today explained. I'm Noelle King. Earlier in the episode, Hannah Dreyfus, a reporter with ProPublica, told us a story of Ty and Brinley Larson, two siblings in Utah who have locked themselves in a bedroom after being forced to reunite with a father that they say abuse them. Now, a judge made that decision after a court appointed therapist said the kids were victims of something called parental alienation. Hannah, what is the history of this term?

6 (16m 58s):
So the term parental alienation syndrome originated with a psychiatrist named Dr. Richard Gardner.

13 (17m 8s):
My hope is we're on the brink of, of the change and that courts are gonna start to to do this more frequently, and

6 (17m 17s):
He practiced in courts in the US in the eighties and nineties. Now, the interesting thing about Gardner is that he was hired as a court expert to defend mainly fathers who were accused of sexually abusing their kids. So he came up with a theory, parental alienation syndrome, a mental health disorder in which the mom has brainwashed the kids to falsely believe that they had experienced this abuse.

13 (17m 48s):
The treatment number one has to be to take the child, remove the child from the indoctrinate. You can see the child seven days a week. I don't care how skillful you are as a therapist, if the child is turned back to the home of the indoctrinate, your therapy's a waste of time therapies.

6 (18m 6s):
And so the theory took off as a way to defend fathers from accusations of molesting their children.

1 (18m 13s):
Is this an official term that psychologists use that is in the D S m courts seem to recognize it, but what is it exactly?

6 (18m 21s):
It's a supposed mental health disorder that is not recognized by major psychological bodies like the American Psychiatric Association or the American Psychological Association. It's not listed in any official code, and it's not a diagnosis that any professional can give to an individual. It is a dynamic that lawyers and some psychologists say exists within the context of high conflict divorces where you see kids being manipulated by one parent in order to resist contact with the other parent.

1 (19m 1s):
So Richard Gardner coins the term in the 1980s, and then what's the reaction to it?

6 (19m 7s):
So the reaction has shifted and changed over time. Defenders of the theory sort of dropped the term syndrome, and that's why I refer to it now more broadly as parental alienation. Michelle Jones, in the case of Tyann, Brinley told me that she diagnoses parental alienation among her patients as easily as she could diagnose strep throat. But others say that no, this is not a diagnosable theory. This is a family systems problem, meaning that it's a dynamic issue. It doesn't exist within one person's own mental health or inside someone's mind, but that it is a dynamic that comes up when there is a high conflict divorce situation.

6 (19m 48s):
One of the most pernicious ways that a parent might manipulate a child to reject another parent is to cause them to believe that they had been abused when the actually abuse had not taken place. According to modern day alienation, experts, if there is legitimate reason to believe that a child has been abused, that alienation cannot be the explanation for why a child does not wanna be with the parent. However, what you're seeing is that there are reunification therapists, lawyers, and court experts who continue to take on and defend cases in which abuse has been substantiated.

1 (20m 28s):
If there is no certainty around the term parental alienation, if it's so disputed, why are courts still making rulings as if there is certainty about

6 (20m 39s):
It? I'm gonna quote Dr. David Corwin and he is the immediate past president of apsac, an organization that defends against abusive children. And what Dr. Corwin told me is that people understand that in a messy divorce, somebody might make false claims about the other parent and that people will say not nice things about the other parent to try and perhaps gain a custody advantage. However, the difference here is that the concept that a child could actually be manipulated to believe and disclose abuse is wildly unscientifically supported, meaning the reason that the courts continue to be compelled by this theory is because it's very difficult and uncomfortable to believe that a parent would have sexually abused a child, even though we have statistics that there are a huge number of children who are sexually abused and most commonly by family members or close relatives.

1 (21m 41s):
How common is it for claims of parental alienation to be used in custody cases? How often does this go on?

6 (21m 49s):
ProPublica is actually collecting information on this. Now, it's not easy to collect data on this issue because many court cases are sealed, especially when they have to do with minors. But what is important to keep in mind is that there are lots of divorces taking place in the US at any given time. A relatively small percentage of them fall into the category of high conflict divorces, which are divorces that continue to go through legislation over the course of frequently years. So we don't have specific numbers at this point.

1 (22m 21s):
Who else benefits from this type of ruling? You mentioned that Ty and Brinley had been forced to go through a reunification program with their dad. Tell me about those.

6 (22m 32s):
There are relatively few number of these that exist in the us, but these are programs that take place in various different locations frequently. I mean actually almost exclusively not disclosed to participants beforehand, and they are brought there frequently from the backhouse of courtrooms. They are brought into the total authority of parental alienation experts who will give them intensive treatment to help cure them of all the psychological programming that they say they have gone through.

14 (23m 10s):
I actually think my job is kind of easy. The hard part is getting the court to realize that this, their rejection is counterintuitive, meaning that the children really don't mean it when they say they know don't wanna ever see a parent again,

6 (23m 26s):
Family reunification programs cost a pretty penny. I'm actually in the process of getting receipts myself, but I have heard in the realm of $30,000 for a week of intensive reunification therapy and the follow-up treatment.

1 (23m 43s):
This is big

6 (23m 44s):
Business. It is big business, yeah.

1 (23m 47s):
What does this story tell us about how children in this country are protected or not protected by court systems from abuse?

6 (23m 57s):
I think what this story tells us about the way that family courts handle abuse is that children largely in this country are not given the opportunity to tell family courts who they want to live with and why they want to live with that specific person or parent or caregiver.

0 (24m 16s):
Even my own guardian ad litem slash my own attorney hasn't even been standing up for me in court.

6 (24m 24s):
So you see delegated in family courts the responsibility of speaking for kids given over to a third party instead of the ability for kids and teenagers, even teenagers, 16 years old, them not having that chance to speak for themselves and address a court directly about what they want.

0 (24m 43s):
I'm now almost 16, and I've been through this court case for almost five years now. I've been interviewed by DCFS thousands of times. It feels like cops, police officers, anything. I've been interviewed by them.

6 (24m 54s):
In the case of Ty and Brin Lee, Ty has been desperate to communicate exactly why he does not want custody with his father. My

0 (25m 3s):
Own word does not matter, and they don't believe my

6 (25m 5s):
Truth. So he has to resort to talking about his situation on social media. I think what this story tells us is that while America thinks of itself as a pretty advanced country when it comes to awareness about child sexual abuse and laws protecting victims of domestic violence, the courts so frequently go outta their way to silence children who are claiming that they were sexually abused. I have been approached by hundreds of parents and kids who said the courts have completely disregarded their stories and their truths.

1 (25m 49s):
Today's episode was produced by S Petros and edited by Amina Elad. It was engineered by Patrick Boyd and fact checked by Laura Bullard Am Noel King is today explained.