4 (0s):
This is Saint Dominic. I'm an assistant managing editor at the New York Times. Our

3 (5s):
Newsroom has been empty since March, but we've been busier than ever before the pandemic has changed how we work, but it hasn't changed what we do. This is why we became journalists to bring to light real verified information when the stakes couldn't be higher. We can't do this work without our subscribers. If you'd like to subscribe, please go to nytimes.com / subscribe and thanks. Hi, I'm nilay Patel co-founder and editor and chief of The Verge and host of decoder a new podcast from The Verge and the VOX media podcast network of a big ideas and other problems for over a decade. I've been interviewing leaders from the worlds of Technology business and policy about how they run their organizations make decisions and consider policy changes that could fundamentally alter entire Industries with decoder.

3 (56s):
I'll be expanding these conversations with a diverse cast of CEOs. Policymakers and innovators some you know, and some you wouldn't expect so look for decoder with VI Patel in apple podcast or your favorite podcast app.

4 (1m 17s):
We raise your right

3 (1m 19s):
hand and repeat after me. I Donald John Trump do solemnly swear. I Donald John Trump do solemnly swear that I will Faithfully execute that. I will Faithfully execute the office of President of the United States the office of President of the United States and will to the best of my ability and will to the best of my ability preserve protect and defend Preserve protect and defend the Constitution of the United States the Constitution of the United States so help me God so help me God congratulations. Mr. President.

3 (1m 59s):
It's they explained. I'm Sean Rama's forum for years ago

4 (2m 4s):
Donald Trump from reality

3 (2m 5s):
TV won the presidency and our shared reality hasn't been the same since the Relentless pace of headlines controversies and tweets. It's has rendered the country divided at present and unable to fully recollect the past I've seen the Tweet about tapes. Lordy. I hope there are tapes. We struggled to remember what this president said or

4 (2m 29s):
did last month let alone in

3 (2m 31s):
2017 for the past few weeks. We've been

4 (2m 34s):
helping you remember with our series on the Trump years. We would looking back on Donald Trump's policies accomplishments and Scandals during his four years as president to figure out what they mean for the future of the American.

3 (2m 47s):
Argan political

4 (2m 48s):
experiment on today's show the health of our nation. From before he was president to this very minute. Donald Trump has been talking about Healthcare not necessarily A Vision, but undoing the vision of his predecessor. And then of course in his fourth year, he was hit with the biggest challenge of his presidency a global pandemic that continues to set the worst kinds of Records in the United States. Today. We're going to look at these two Essential Health stories with Dylan Scott who is covered both for Vox. Dylan let's start with President Trump's obsession with undoing Obamacare, which be seemingly remembered is one of his obsessions lately.

3 (3m 35s):
What I would like to do is a much better health care much

4 (3m 38s):
better. It's like always TBT with President T. So I'd like to terminate Obamacare come up with a brand-new beautiful health care that he's insane is a plan again. Does he have a plan Dylan? No, he doesn't have a plan or four years into the Trump presidency and there is still no comprehensive Trump healthcare plan. But he still really hates that other one by his

3 (3m 58s):
predecessor. One of the worst things anybody's ever had to live through. We got rid of the individual man. Yes, he is still promising that

4 (4m 8s):
he can repeal Obamacare and deliver better cheaper Health Care to Americans, but I think Trump's problem on Health Care is that he's never actually been able to come up with a plan to meet those promises. And neither of congressional Republicans. Let's go all the way back to Canada. Trump for a second. What were his Healthcare promises when he was running against Hillary Clinton? So I think Trump was making three big promises on Healthcare. One of my

3 (4m 35s):
first acts as president will be to repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare. He was promising to repeal and replace

4 (4m 46s):
the Affordable Care Act as Republicans have been doing

3 (4m 48s):
for years. He was

4 (4m 50s):
promising that he would be pro-life anti-abortion, you know, pursue regulations and appoint judges. Judges, who would advance that agenda

3 (4m 58s):
I've become for life. I was in a make fashion pro-choice, but I've become pro-life and he was

4 (5m 5s):
promising that he would bring down drug

3 (5m 6s):
prices. So we buy drugs biggest in the world and we pay about 300 billion dollars more there was supposed to if we negotiated the price. So there's

4 (5m 19s):
300 billion on day one. We saw that was one of his big populist talking points trying to talk to Papa. cookbook issues that voters really care about Let's go through those in reverse order starting with at least once sounds like maybe the easiest of the three just reducing drug costs. How did he do on that? The president's agenda has taken a couple of different tax for one. He certainly has sent out a fair number of threatening tweets Trump the president twitching again

3 (5m 48s):
now drug prices will soon be lowered massively big farmer drug companies are advertising against me like crazy because lower prices mean less profit. You watch a fake ad just

4 (6m 2s):
think lower drug prices, you know the looming Specter of more aggressive Federal Regulation might encourage Pharma to keep drug prices down on their own but that's not much of a policy agenda. Obviously the most interesting thing that the Administration has proposed would be using international drug prices to set the prices that Medicare would pay for medications. Basically you would take like Germany and maybe the UK and Canada. Other Rich developed countries check the price that they pay for a given medication and then the Medicare would refuse to pay anything higher than that. And so that's an idea that even like Bernie Sanders has sounded receptive to over the years.

4 (6m 44s):
It certainly has an example of trump promoting and supporting policies that are sort of unorthodox for a republican. This is much more of a democratic Progressive idea, but they haven't actually finalized the regulation the administration. First floated this idea very early on in the administration and they released a draft proposal but the federal rulemaking process is very complicated. There's a few different steps that you have to take for regulation to actually be finalized and in effect and the Trump Administration hasn't taken those steps yet. And they actually I think being cognizant of that shortcoming President Trump signed an executive order just a few weeks ago saying that this was a policy that he

3 (7m 26s):
supported there for today I'm signing for Sweeping executive orders that will lead to massive reduction in drug costs massive, but all

4 (7m 36s):
the policy experts and health law Scholars were saying at the time that this executive order doesn't have any effect. You still have to go through the process of writing and finalizing Federal like regulations and they haven't done it. The Trump Administration has been talking about putting together these two hundred dollar discount cards that they would send out to Medicare beneficiaries, you know, maybe with the president's signature. Written across

3 (8m 1s):
them. These cards are incredible. The cards will be mailed out in coming weeks. I will always take care of our wonderful senior citizens. Joe Biden will be doing this. They've been trying to finagle some way to make this legally

4 (8m 15s):
permissible pretended some kind of demonstration project to test whether drug costs will be lower for people if they get effectively a gift card from the government, but I think the subtext of all of that is a recognition on the Trump administration's part, but they have not really Ali delivered on this promise and we see that in a few different ways the fact that they haven't finalized regulations the fact that prices are still going up and the fact that they're making these kind of last desperate attempts to try to get something done on the issue just before the election. Okay. So promised one prescription drug prices would go down lots of talk lots of tweets and executive order, but he didn't really deliver. Let's move to promise to that.

4 (8m 55s):
The Trump Administration will be anti-abortion more success there. I would That is something that Trump has really focused on

3 (9m 2s):
delivering. I've just come from the road. Ugh where I pray? a dart Evangelical Christians are a very important

4 (9m 17s):
part of his base. This is an issue that they really care

3 (9m 20s):
about wife is a core tenant of who we are as Americans and this election is a choice between two radical anti-life activists and the most pro-life President we have ever

4 (9m 34s):
had and so I do think there has been a concerted effort by the administration to fulfill some of those promises so, you know the federal judge

3 (9m 42s):
As

4 (9m 42s):
in the Supreme Court Justices that Trump has appointed are generally more pro-life anti-abortion certainly more so than any judges and justices who would have been appointed by a Democratic candidate and this is another area where they actually have followed through on regulations early on in the administration Trump's Health Department proposed allowing employers from you know, Fortune 500 companies to non-profit Catholic organizations. They would be allowed to refuse to cover contraception if they so chose for any religious or moral reason and that regulation as all are on contentious issues was the subject of a lawsuit that lawsuit actually worked its way to the Supreme Court over the summer

3 (10m 25s):
and justices on the Supreme Court have sided with the Trump Administration allowing employers to opt out of a obamacare's birth control mandate. The impact is immediate the government estimates between 70,000 and a hundred and twenty-six thousand women will lose their contraception coverage under this.

4 (10m 42s):
Of which you know was a win both for Trump's anti-abortion agenda and for his efforts to focus on the Judiciary and put more conservative justices on the bench. Yeah. This is definitely one where I think Trump has had a real focus and has actually been able to deliver for his supporters and that contraception mandate Trump rolled back was one small part of Obamacare which brings us to his third promise. We talked about at the top get rid of Obamacare. He's been obsessed with that. From the jump. Absolutely. I mean President Trump came into office. And the first item on congress's agenda was repealing and replacing Obamacare.

3 (11m 23s):
One of the Senate's very first acts. This Congress was to pass the legislative tools necessary to repeal Obamacare we did so because the American people who had suffered for years under the failures of Obamacare were calling out for

4 (11m 38s):
Relief remind us how that went. It didn't go well. Was a failure at ended up sucking up almost all of the Republicans time and attention during their first year with full control of Washington, which is such like a pivotal period That's when you have a chance to really get things done before concerns about re-election and just sort of the inertia of Washington DC takes over and they really did try. You know, you might remember House Republicans initially failed to come together on a plan back in March of

3 (12m 7s):
2017. Yeah. I don't know what else to say other

4 (12m 10s):
than Obamacare is the law. The land it's going to remain the law of the land until it's replaced. We did not have quite the votes to replace this law. And so yeah, we're going to be living with Obamacare for the foreseeable future. I don't know how long it's going to take us to replace this law then they worked on it for a couple months. Finally managed to pass something later that spring and then Senate Republicans spent the next few months trying to figure out their own repeal and replace plan. They weren't able to come up with one to get 50 votes. Obviously John McCain's big thumbs

3 (12m 39s):
down will always

2 (12m 42s):
A

3 (12m 42s):
defining moment of the Trump presidency seven years the repeal efforts have now essentially gone up in smoke leaving a frustrated McConnell to explain on the floor

4 (12m 51s):
and even all the way through September of 2017. So I'm almost that entire first year Senate Republicans were still trying to figure out a plan that could get 50 votes in the Senate and they weren't able to do it and I think that reflects a couple of things one is, you know,

3 (13m 7s):
Trump

4 (13m 9s):
made a lot of big promises on what his health care plan. Would do he would say things

3 (13m 13s):
like everybody's got to be covered. This is a nun Republican thing for me to say because a lot of times they say no no the lower 25% they can't afford private and

4 (13m 21s):
he promised that it would bring costs down for everybody.

3 (13m 24s):
Those are two

4 (13m 24s):
really Hard Promises to make because in order to cover everybody you have to be willing to cover people who have really expensive medical conditions and that makes it really hard to bring down costs for everybody. So those two goals are kind of intention and Republicans the reason they found themselves. Thousand in a pickle I think is because in the end the Affordable Care Act is a pretty conservative Health policy. Is that why it's so hard for the president to come up with an alternative plan? Because Obamacare wasn't a public option and wasn't private insurance but instead something in between and that's kind of the only other thing you can do.

4 (14m 6s):
There's certainly some tweaks you can make to Obamacare to try to make it more conservative a little less heavily regulated and there are some conservatives who have proposed ideas to do that. But yes fundamentally Obamacare is a pretty conservative health care plan on its own. And if you are promising to repeal it from a more conservative viewpoints, it's really hard to continue guaranteeing coverage for everybody and making sure pre-existing conditions are covered and making sure health insurance is Affordable without you know, doing more of Obamacare rather than less and so I think that's why you've seen, you know, President Trump has been reduced to signing completely symbolic legally toothless executive orders that say things like it is the policy of the United.

4 (14m 51s):
United States for pre-existing conditions to be covered the irony of that is that it is already the policy of the United States for pre-existing conditions to be covered because Obamacare is federal policy all told I mean for years of attacks on Obamacare coming after what was already some pretty heavy Republican opposition. What effect has it had on this Health Plan. The uninsured rate has started to tick up under Trump, you know, they've taken some Small regulatory actions to try to undermine the Obamacare markets, you know cutting advertising trying to allow for non ACA coverage to be more available to people and other things like Medicaid work requirements to those have been caught up at the courts.

4 (15m 36s):
So like we have seen several million more people become uninsured under Donald Trump even before coronavirus and the unemployment crisis that has led to more people losing coverage. So I don't want to I certainly don't want to lose sight of those material effects that have already happened under Trump's watch but I think the most significant thing that that Trump has done was he and Congressional Republicans repealed the individual mandate penalty as part of their tax legislation that passed at the end of 2017 that was kind of the one thing that everybody could agree on the Mandate had always been unpopular and Republicans had always, you know, kind of excited that more than anything else is the reason that Obamacare is such an affront to what they think of as American values.

4 (16m 21s):
But the the scary thing that and almost the irony of their repealing the Mandate is that that has now become the basis for a Supreme Court case that could end up in validating Obamacare in its entirety and leading to you know, 20 million people losing health coverage if Congress and the White House are unable to come up with a plan to replace it and prevent that from happening.

3 (16m 50s):
So we're talking about

4 (16m 51s):
about potentially 20 million people losing health coverage and this

3 (16m 55s):
is where Trump's failure to come up with a

4 (16m 58s):
healthcare plan is so worrisome because he and the justice department are asking the Supreme Court to

3 (17m 4s):
overturn Obamacare

4 (17m 6s):
next spring and they still haven't come up with a plan to replace it if that were to happen. And as I know I don't need to tell you but I will this would be happening in the middle of a global infectious disease pandemic that is already killed more than

3 (17m 21s):
200,000 Americans and more than a million people worldwide

4 (17m 25s):
and we are facing the

3 (17m 26s):
very real possibility

4 (17m 28s):
that millions of people who are going to potentially need treatment who are potentially going to need a vaccine, you know, people who have long term symptoms who are going to be dealing with health problems for a long time millions of people could it wind up uninsured while they're trying to confront those

3 (17m 42s):
problems. More with Dylan in a minute. It's today

4 (17m 48s):
explained. This is Advertiser content.

3 (17m 59s):
Mutually exacerbate and

4 (18m 0s):
catastrophes. It sounds like the beginning of some sci-fi Parable. But that's what the 2020 Gates Foundation goalkeepers

3 (18m 8s):
report says is happening today and with more than 850,000 Global deaths twelve trillion dollars to be lost from the global economy and extreme poverty Rising for the first time in 20 years. It's fitting the shell Pedrad or works on development policy and finance at the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. He says the Is an opportunity to recognize how interconnected the world is and create strong systems to end this pandemic and build a more Equitable future.

4 (18m 38s):
We could be living in a world where we're able to get the virus under better control. The medical countermeasures governments are able to protect their people and that the sort of temporary problems say temporary rather than become forever problems that said it does require political leadership. It does require thinking a little bit more Beyond sort of the bounds of just your country and what's happening at this point in time. Time and in your sphere so it's challenging to there are of course endless other paths that we can take like one word governments don't come together to address the pandemic instead. We see closed borders each country for itself New Zealand has zero cases for a hundred days and everything was fine.

4 (19m 19s):
But the world the pandemic was raging around them. It was always going to come back in and there's no way you can sort of walk yourself down forever and isolate yourself forever even feedback saying our entire population. Get it under control. You never fully certain until you really get the virus under control everywhere

3 (19m 34s):
progress is possible but not inevitable and what our governments do now has a direct role to play and when and how these mutually exacerbating catastrophes end to learn more read the goalkeepers

4 (19m 46s):
report at Gates foundation.org goalkeepers. This is Mark Lacy National editor at the New York Times as we head into a pivotal election. It's our mission to find answers to the questions. You have that Means analyzing what the

3 (19m 60s):
candidates are saying, but it also means looking deeply at the

4 (20m 3s):
issues from an economy under stress to a national Reckoning on racism every day. We do the research so we can help

3 (20m 10s):
you make an informed decision. None of this

4 (20m 12s):
work would be possible without our subscribers. If you'd like to subscribe to the times go to nytimes.com subscribe, then we've been talking about the coronavirus since January. Of this year on the show, but I feel like we know a lot more now than we did back then about how exactly the president handled this. What do we know from the very outset now so we know that even before anyone had heard of coronavirus before it ever found its way to humans the Trump White House actually dismantled a pandemic response office that had been set up inside of The White House.

4 (20m 58s):
So that was sort of the first thing, you know Public Health has long been underfunded and under supported in the United States. But the Trump White House took some very specific steps that made the u.s. Less prepared when covid-19 came to our Shores, but beyond that we obviously know, you know from the the Bob Woodward interview and really we've known it for the duration that the Trump White House did not want to take a strong leadership role on covid which she said back in. Worried that it's a deadly it's deadlier than the flu.

2 (21m 33s):
It's also more deadly than your you know, your even your strenuous lose

4 (21m 39s):
very much emphasized with numbers that it's more deadly than the flu.

2 (21m 44s):
You know, this is 5% versus 1% and less than

4 (21m 48s):
1% And now today he says

3 (21m 51s):
this is a flu. This is like a flu.

4 (21m 53s):
There's been since been a report from The New York Times that found as far back as April, you know was really still the worst of the outbreak in the New York City area. The Trump Administration was trying to send as much responsibility down to the

3 (22m 5s):
state's the states should have been buildings their stockpile for them

4 (22m 9s):
to handle, you know, getting protective equipment increasing their Hospital capacity coming up with plans to test and Trace people. They wanted to Slough off as much of that responsibility as possible to the states and take much more of a backseat role. Where

3 (22m 24s):
a backup without an ordering clerk where a backup and you've had, you know, some people have now

4 (22m 28s):
tried to start Assessing how different countries handled covid-19 foreign policy magazine put together a Global Response index here in the last couple of months and they rate the view s very poorly on both. You know how well prepared we were for a pandemic and now how we responded to it. Now that we're in the middle of one and I think a lot of that can be attributed to the Trump Administration failure to both proactively come up with a plan in advance and then to develop one once the crisis was here we talked about this. Pandemic response office being eliminated early on in this pandemic, but it's kind of amazing with the Woodward Revelations to know that the Trump Administration knew they didn't really have a dedicated team on this kind of thing.

4 (23m 16s):
And they knew this was airborne and they knew this was going to be lethal and they still didn't really do very much. Yeah, it seems that they traded this much more as a Problem, you know the risk I guess of being really proactive and being seen as the one who's responsible for getting covid-19 under control is that you could fail and you could end up looking like a fool which obviously President Trump and the middle of a re-election year. That would be the last thing that you would want. And so that's what seems to have motivated this whole idea that we know this is really up to the states and we're just here kind of monitoring things from Washington DC. I mean, you heard Jared Kushner the president's advisor and so No law, he said early on

3 (24m 0s):
that the notion of the federal stockpile wasn't supposed to be our stockpile. It's not supposed to be state stockpiles that they then use. So we're encouraging the states to make sure that they're assessing the needs. They're getting the data from their local local situations and then trying to fill it with the supplies that we've given

4 (24m 16s):
them the federal government plays a very important role in coordinating across States and providing more funding to support state and local Health departments because the, you know state and local governments are the Frontline for

3 (24m 29s):
A

4 (24m 29s):
public health emergency. They're the ones who are on the ground they need support and they need an Engaged federal government coordinating different supplies coordinating strategies across the states and cities because an infectious disease like covid doesn't care about borders. It doesn't care. If you're in North Dakota or South Dakota, it's going to spread wherever it can spread and so you need really do need a strong National leadership. The things that that can do is, you know, allocate testing supplies across the country. Depending on which places are experiencing the worst outbreaks at a given time. I know over the summer from talking to health workers on the ground that when Florida was in the worst of their covid outbreak, it was taking a week or more for test results to come back have this huge problem

3 (25m 14s):
here tracing

4 (25m 15s):
is a problem. Testing is the problem hospitals are

3 (25m 19s):
getting full capacity right now. Actually. We just had a case right now in our city where one of the funeral homes

4 (25m 26s):
had to bring in a

3 (25m 28s):
Elder of freezer because of how many

4 (25m 32s):
people that are passing away, but at the same time one of the health workers, I talked to knew somebody up in Connecticut were actually covid had kind of subsided after the worst of it in the spring and they were able to get test results in a day or two which actually would be useful for the people down in Florida. So I think in both their roles both, you know trying to come up with a national strategy and providing the kind of resources that only the Federal Government Can the Trump Administration really has Fallen short the administration is trying to spin some of its covid response in a positive light at the debates at the RNC Trump likes to compare himself to Biden and say that Biden came out and said that the you know, China travel ban was seen a phobic where Trump seems to feel like he's been validated in doing that.

4 (26m 20s):
He likes to paint the who as in cahoots with China. There is some evidence that the who dropped the ball here. Did the administration take some measures that helped so I think something like Banning travel from China did make sense. You know, this is an infectious disease that can take several days for symptoms to show up. Like if you can limit people from moving around the world and spreading it unknowingly, you know, that's going to help Tamp down on transmission and maybe give a little bit of time for us to get prepared. But I think there were a couple of problems one is that banning travel from China does not actually stop anybody from trying to form a Really making their way to the US, you know, they could fly through Europe and so we've had I think reports of you know, some number of people who did end up coming from China to the US during that period after the travel ban had been instituted and of course once they got here there was no contact tracing right?

4 (27m 15s):
We had no contact tracing we didn't have any kind of infrastructure to keep track of those people and figure out yeah who they might be exposing to covid on top of that. You know, like the President also likes to talk about banning travel from Europe that example also shows Of the pitfalls of a borders focused strategy, I guess which is that by when he issued that order. We suddenly had this surge of people trying to get back home from the

3 (27m 38s):
US pandemic panic and some of the nation's biggest airports as new travel restrictions caused long lines to clear Customs for people returning from Europe the hours long wait times in Dallas New York and Chicago packing huge crowds into tight spaces exactly the kind of gathering Americans are being told to avoid

4 (27m 58s):
we we'll probably never know how many of those folks, you know coming from Italy or Spain were already infected and brought the virus to the US and help to seed outbreaks here as well. So travel bans have some value but they're certainly not an end to themselves and maybe the best way to think about this is that banning travel can buy you time but you have to take advantage of that time. You have to take a setup testing and tracing an isolating programs. You have to you know, help make sure hospitals already have enough. Active gear and have surge capacity plans and there's really not much evidence that the Trump Administration did that they didn't seem to try to take advantage of the time that they had bought with the travel bans and instead quite the opposite as we said and now we've seen the consequences of that failure all these months later as we inch closer to this election cases are climbing again across the United States plus the holidays are coming plus flu season is coming plus winter is coming more time indoors.

4 (28m 58s):
Ours is the president focused at all. On what could happen in the next month's with this virus while he is surely focusing a heck of a lot on the election

3 (29m 11s):
No, in fact, he seems to be in denial the fake news media loves to say cases are up. The fact is we've done a very very good job. That's all we have done. That's right because we're doing so much

4 (29m 23s):
testing. I mean, it's clear at this point as you say we're entering a third wave of covid here in the u.s. What's scary about this one is that it seems to be happening. Everywhere, it's not just isolated to one region or to one state covid cases in 43 States and DC

3 (29m 38s):
or up at least 10% in the last two weeks including record numbers in Illinois, which is topped 9,500

4 (29m 46s):
deaths and yet the president is saying things like

3 (29m 48s):
it will go away. And as I say we're rounding the turn we're rounding the corner it's going away. He continues to

4 (29m 55s):
disparage. Dr. Anthony fauci and other government scientist Public Health experts people

2 (30m 0s):
are tired of hearing Falco. You know these idiots is these people is people that have got it wrong vouch. He's a nice guy. He's been here for five hundred years every time he goes on television. There's always a bomb but there's a bigger bomb of your firearm.

4 (30m 17s):
And so it's really not great altogether. It doesn't seem like the president sees any problem with how he's handled covid thus far and there doesn't seem to be any reason to expect a change from his administration in the coming months not to mention if he wins re-election not to mention if he wins re-election. No, there's not been any sign of a pivot except a pivot away from paying any attention to covid there was a moment there where it seemed like Donald Trump and the opportunity to really unite the country in the fight against this virus. I mean it just it didn't feel like in those early days that anyone was out there cheering for him to bungle this entire thing.

4 (30m 57s):
If anything there was just a lot of confusion out there and people Reassurance and it just feels like such a shame that he didn't see this as a way to maybe even get reelected right like Jacinda are Durham just like won re-election with a whopping plurality, right? It's very easy to imagine an alternate universe where yeah, President Trump sees the coronavirus as perverse as it might sound as an opportunity. He ran as a candidate saying that I alone can fix America's problems and here was you know the big Biggest problem that we face during his four years in office and in my mind.

4 (31m 36s):
Anyway, I can at least imagine that somebody like Trump would be like, you know, now I get to like do stuff I get to like order people around I get to direct supplies to be distributed across the country. I can mobilize the military like there's all kinds of stuff you get to do as the president when there's a pandemic and the National Emergency that requires a national response and we have certainly seen a lot of other national leaders around the world. Enjoy a surge in popularity because of how they've handled covid-19. And now we've seen the opposite effect for him and that he is, you know, obviously struggling in his re-election campaign and his handling of the covid-19 response is very unpopular with the American public.

4 (32m 20s):
So I remain as perplexed is as you are and the only real explanation that I can offer is and it goes back to the same issue. He encountered with Obamacare, which is that it requires a plan. To respond to a pandemic it requires an that kind of Engagement and an active interest and you know, the president has never really shown an affinity for those those finer details of public policy. And I think we've seen the consequences of that during the last year.

3 (32m 55s):
Dylan Scott he reports on Healthcare at

4 (32m 58s):
box. He's also been covering the heck out of this pandemic find all his reporting at box.com. And while you're there you can find all the previous episodes in our series on the Trump years. There are vox.com Trump years. We'll wrap up our series tomorrow with Rebecca trait stir from New York

3 (33m 15s):
Magazine and Ezra Klein from box the

4 (33m 18s):
website. And now the ones we lost along the way

3 (33m 31s):
Steve Bannon let them call you racist wear it as a badge of honor fired Dina Powell resigned Rick Dearborn resigned Sebastian Gorka. They want to take your pickup truck. They want to rebuild your home. They want to take away your hamburgers. This is what Stalin dreamt about but never achieved fired. Jeremy cats resigned George sifakas resigned Anthony. Scary Meucci. What happens to leakers on your watch? They're going to get fired fired.

3 (34m 14s):
Tom Price resign Keith Schiller resigned Carl Icahn resigned as ra Cohen wet Nick fired George GG cose resigned reince priebus, you know, we heard from the pool reporter there. They were headed to the same car. They got in the same car in the motorcade and then it became clear as the news broke that Ryan's his car was no longer going to be in the presidential motorcade and then according to the pool. Board scavino and another aide leave go into the car that he is returning to the White House with the president and reince priebus alone heads off in a different direction may be heading home. That's pretty amazing.

3 (34m 54s):
Don't you think Mark fired? Hi, I'm Neil Patel co-founder and editor and chief of The Verge and host of decoder a new podcast from The Verge in the VOX media podcast network of a big ideas and other problems for over a decade.

3 (35m 39s):
I've been interviewing leaders in the world's technology business and policy about how they run their organizations make decisions and consider policy changes that could fundamentally alter entire Industries like Senator Ed Markey on the future of connectivity in America. Broadband has become the equivalence of Water or electricity for people AMD CEO. Dr. Lisa Sue on building the next generation of processors. The idea was technology is you have to make a set of choices three to five years in advance Google and alphabet CEO Sundar pichai on the current crisis and adapting to it cold. It has blurred the lines between consumer and Enterprise and people are using products in all kinds of contexts and Neil Young on from his feelings the MacBook Pro.

3 (36m 22s):
It's a piece of crap. Are you kidding with decoder? I'll be during these conversations with a diverse cast of CEOs policymakers and innovators some you know, and some you wouldn't expect we'll talk about how they're navigating and ever-changing Landscape what keeps them up at night and what it all means for our shared future. We're asking tough questions going to break some news and we're going to have some fun. So look for a decoder with the online Patel in apple podcasts or your favorite podcast.