0 (0s):
Check one

1 (1s):
Two. Recently tall colorblind today. Explained producer Miles. Bryan leapt into the culture wars when he purchased an induction stove to replace his gas stove.

2 (13s):
That is correct. Induction stove.

1 (15s):
And then said about interviewing his contractor. Raphael Magana. How

0 (19s):
Familiar are you with with how they work?

2 (21s):
There is the first one like this,

0 (22s):
You do a ton of kitchens, right? I mean that's,

2 (24s):
Yeah, basically this is my sportive and I never saw one of this before.

1 (28s):
The reason Raphael is unfamiliar is that this is a newly popular, though not new technology and also the natural gas lobby has spent lots of money over the years trying to keep people like miles hooked on gas. But a consumer protection official recently took aim at gas stoves and sparked a conversation. Nay ignited a firestorm, even kindled a conflagration about what gas stoves are doing to our health. It's coming up on today, explained

3 (55s):
The Ring of Fire. The ring of fire.

6 (1m 0s):
It's the new year and for some that means resolutions to eat healthy food and get in shape. You've probably heard the standard advice to lose weight, eat fewer calories than you burn. But we at Gastropod wanted to know, is a calorie a calorie no matter what food it comes from? And is one calorie for you the same as one for me to find out? We visit the rooms where calories are measured and the labs where scientists are proving that the numbers on our food labels are off sometimes by quite a bit. So is the calorie broken? Find gastropod unsubscribe. Wherever you get your podcasts,

1 (1m 38s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King and that sound you just heard is Yes, A gas stove,

7 (1m 44s):
A gas stove uses natural gas to cook. So before you turn on that blue flame, there is pure methane that is coming out of the stove. And then when it clicks on for fire, you are also getting some other pollutants mixed in like nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter.

1 (2m 3s):
Rebecca Lieber is a senior climate reporter at Vox. Those pollutants are something that a lot of people have only recently started paying attention to, even though gas stoves have been a fixture in some American homes and departments for a very long time,

7 (2m 15s):
They've been around about a century, but their market share has changed quite a bit over time because earlier in the 19 hundreds it was competing with electric stoves, but also coal and wood stoves.

4 (2m 29s):
There's no doubt about it. Modern matchless gas ranges make you a better cook and help you automatically to better meals,

7 (2m 37s):
But over time they have gained a lot of the share of the market. And today it's about 38% of homes that use a gas stove.

1 (2m 46s):
Four out of 10. Are there certain parts of the country where gas stoves are more popular?

7 (2m 52s):
Yeah, it completely depends on where you live. So gas is really common in big cities along the coast. So New York City is hugely reliant on gas cooking, so is a lot of California. And then you see these pockets that tend to be in big urban centers as far as electric goes. The southeast is super electric up to 90% in some states. So it can really depend on where you live in the country.

1 (3m 21s):
Tell us why we're talking about gas stoves all of a sudden.

7 (3m 24s):
Yeah, so it seems like all of a sudden, because this really blew up in the last week or so, but there's been this long debate before it about the health risks of a gas stove and whether we still should use gas in our buildings. But what happened in the last week was the Consumer Product Safety Commission had said it was going to look at gas stoves as a public health risk and consider regulation around the gas stove. And part of that statement from Richard Truca Jr. Said that anything is on the table including a ban. Well,

8 (4m 2s):
We're in the information gathering stage and we want to get that feedback from the public. We wanna get that feedback from, you know, scientifically available data out there and we're gonna analyze that and figure out the best path going forward. And when we're at that point in regulation, everything's on the table.

7 (4m 15s):
And that led to a predictable freak out, particularly from conservatives,

9 (4m 21s):
Congressman Ronnie Jackson, a Republican. He says, if the maniacs in the White House come from my stove, they can pry it from my cold dead hands.

10 (4m 31s):
You know when we say don't tread on Florida or let us alone, we mean that including on your gas stoves.

11 (4m 40s):
The government should not be telling us how to cook our food.

12 (4m 43s):
Yeah, what's next? Scented candles. I mean, you know, the

11 (4m 46s):
American scented candles, pets. If you really wanna do something about asthma ban pets,

12 (4m 51s):
Oh that's terrible. No, you're not gonna ban pets, not an air watch.

7 (4m 55s):
There is no ban,

13 (4m 57s):
No one is coming for your gas stove.

7 (4m 59s):
They're likely will not be a ban in the near term future.

13 (5m 3s):
The chair of the Consumer Product Safety Commission. Clarifying today, quote, I am not looking to ban gas stoves and the CP SC has no proceeding to do so.

7 (5m 12s):
But this is the culmination of this longer debate and I think just a lot of national audience was encountering it for the very first time.

1 (5m 27s):
What is the problem with gas stoves?

7 (5m 30s):
So the gas stove is natural gas. It runs on a fossil fuel, which is methane. Methane is a greenhouse gas that's far more potent than carbon dioxide, especially over the short run. So it's really problematic from a climate perspective. But there are also these other pollutants when you burn methane like nitrogen dioxide, which we know from a wealth of research is linked to respiratory problems and cardiovascular problems. And we know that from studying this pollutant in the outdoors, but indoors has been a bit more of a black box until recently.

14 (6m 9s):
These are oxides of nitrogen or NOx that get released into our homes when we use gas to

15 (6m 15s):
Cook nitrogen dioxide is a concern because we know that it does have adverse effects on respiratory tract, respiratory illnesses, especially for sensitive individuals such as children who could have asthma as well as elderly people who also suffer from asthma.

1 (6m 34s):
I can imagine some pushback saying, sure, if you've got the stove on 24 hours a day, it's a problem. But not if you use it to make coffee in the morning and quickly heat up some dinner in the evening.

7 (6m 43s):
Yeah, this is where it gets interesting because everyone's using their stove and their oven in very different ways. So certainly the more you use it, the the bigger a problem it can be. But there's some other factors here to consider. There's been some research finding that the gas stove can actually pollute even when it's turned off. And that's because methane leaks are really common whenever you have pipes because it is finds a way to leak out. And there was a study out in California that found that methane was actually coming from people's stoves even when they were turned off.

7 (7m 23s):
So that's one thing to consider. Another is the space you're in. So if you are in this large ventilated space, you likely have less to worry about as far as nitrogen dioxide goes because you're breathing less of it in. But when you're talking about tight cramped spaces that don't have any ventilation, then you're probably breathing a lot more of that N oh two coming off that stove.

1 (7m 48s):
How long have we known about these problems with gas stoves?

7 (7m 51s):
Yeah, this is something that scientists have known about for decades. And going back to the 1980s, the Consumer Product Safety Commission and EPA were actually looking at the science and saying, Hey, there might be a risk here. Maybe we should regulate this. For one reason or another. They didn't. And I think the public really wasn't aware of this science that continued to build up until the last couple years when climate activists really started to look at buildings as a area to focus on. And that's when a lot more of this research started coming to light, including some really high profile studies recently, one that linked stoves to substantial amount of childhood asthma in the US and N oh two is very well established as a pollutant we should worry about.

7 (8m 49s):
It's something the EPA regulates when it comes to the outside, but indoors it somehow has escaped notice. And I think as consumers, this was just an issue that wasn't on people's radars. And honestly, I, while I've been reporting on this for a few years now, I talked to a lot of people who didn't know about that science until the last week.

1 (9m 13s):
I suspect that there is part of this backlash that is not just about culture wars, it has to do with how some people feel about their gas stoves versus how other people in different parts of the country perhaps view natural gas and fossil fuels. Can you talk a bit about that dynamic?

7 (9m 29s):
The gas stove is the status simple in the kitchen. I think it, it's gained this culture of prominence of the, as a superior way to cook. In fact, I've reported on how the gas industry has paid influencers to show off their gas cooking

16 (9m 46s):
Since 2018. Influencers and social media stars have been paid to post hundreds of times about the benefits of hashtag cooking with gas. A practice that has a long documented history of wreaking havoc on human health, but public and private

7 (9m 56s):
Utility companies, it's bigger than the gas stove and it's bigger than the kitchen. It's about these other fights we've been having. And the gas industry itself is pretty concerned here.

1 (10m 8s):
What are they concerned about?

7 (10m 9s):
Well, the gas stove isn't a huge profit margin for the industry, but it's certainly important from an emotional factor. This is something that people feel strongly about. And if you are hooked up to gas in your kitchen, you're more likely to be hooked up in other ways. So the big profit margins are gas boilers and gas heaters. And if you're hooked up to gas in your kitchen, you are likely hooked up with other appliances. And that's where the gas industry makes a lot of its money from. So the future of the gas stove is kind of tied up with the fate of the natural gas industry itself. So you see in, and I've reported on lots of emails from inside the industry, from campaigns, the American Gas Association has been waging that the gas stove is a really pivotal and important wedge issue for the industry where they're trying to gain ground and forced all climate action.

1 (11m 7s):
How is the fossil fuel industry fighting back when someone like Richard Trump, a JR, says, huh guys, we gotta reconsider this.

7 (11m 14s):
Yeah, I, I think Trump Jr really stepped into this ongoing battle and the gas industry won't and isn't holding back here. We've already seen this play out on the local and statewide scale where they have been waging these massive PR campaigns around the stove and why electrification is bad. They have consultants who have been showing up to public hearings to dispute the science around the health risks. And there's this tobacco like strategy going on and the, the industry has been clear it will not take this long down. And it already has pushed these laws in lots of red states where they have placed a ban on gas bans.

7 (12m 1s):
These are called preemption laws. And those have already been enacted in at least 20 states. So at the federal level, we're gonna just see this magnified. This is a battle for the industry's future.

1 (12m 13s):
And as a result of all of the blowback that came through, has the Consumer Product Safety Commission changed its tune? Has it said, God, we didn't realize we were starting a war?

7 (12m 24s):
Yeah, they've changed their tune quite a bit. The Biden administration and the Consumer Product Safety Commission have made clear there is no ban in the works. They have walked back those statements entirely. And the C P S C said they would hold public hearings to look at this issue for the first time. And along the way it's going to have to consider public input and the gas industry pushback as well. So this isn't going to be a regulation out of nowhere. This is likely years away. And we're just at the start of that process. All the CPSC said is they're going to have public hearings this spring

3 (13m 3s):
Today where food is finest, it's cooked with gas,

7 (13m 12s):
No one's coming to take away your gas stove. We're talking about a longer horizon of having to transition the building sector to clean energy. But we're not talking about losing gas cooking even in the foreseeable future. So if you have that stove, you can keep cooking on it.

1 (13m 35s):
Coming up the story that the gas lobby sold us and the pitched fight to get gas out of our homes.

17 (13m 50s):
Music pop quiz time. Can you identify these three sounds? That's an 8 0 8. It's made by pitching and distorting the sound of a kick drum. And it's now replaced bass guitar in countless pop records from Drake to Kim Petris. Okay, number two, That's a vocal chop, a short sample of a singer cut up drenched in reverb and made totally ubiquitous through the hands of EDM producers like Skrillex. All right, last one. That's a Reese space. It's a sludgy synthesized baseline created by producer Kevin Reese Sason in 1988. You can hear it in genres like Jungle Drum and Bass UK garage. And it's even featured all over Taylor Swift's latest record.

17 (14m 32s):
The sounds of popular music are always evolving. If you want to be able to know all of its sounds, the Switched on Pop podcast, we'll break it down for you. I'm Charlie Harding, the co-host of Switched On Pop. And if you can name this sound, honestly, you should come on the show and tell us about it. Switched on Pop comes out every Tuesday, wherever you get podcasts.

18 (14m 53s):
Hi, I'm John Glenn Hill and I'm the new host of The Weeds, a podcast from Vox, all about politics and policy. Our mission is to take deep dives into policies shaping our world, everything from crypto regulation to immigration to climate change. And this week for my first official episode in the host chair, we're firing up the weeds time machine. And taking a trip back to 1965,

19 (15m 20s):
Today is a triumph for freedom, as huge as any victory that's ever been won on any battlefield.

18 (15m 29s):
To talk about one of the most significant pieces of civil rights legislation in US history, the Voting Rights Act, and with questions swirling around election integrity and the future of American democracy, we figured there's no time like the present to look back on it, subscribe to the weeds for new episodes every Tuesday.

5 (15m 53s):
Cooking

20 (15m 54s):
With gas, cooking with gas.

21 (15m 56s):
We all cook better when we're cooking with gas.

18 (15m 59s):
It's a combination of carbon and hydrogen. CH four. We also call it methane and increasingly, sorry I'm in a laundry room. Apologies. We're electrifying our house right now. And so there's a lot of construction going on.

1 (16m 13s):
Leah Stokes is a professor at uc, Santa Barbara, where she works on climate and clean energy policy. She also hosts a climate themed podcast called A Matter of Degrees.

18 (16m 23s):
Continuing along, I will start again. So what is so-called natural gas? Why do we even call it natural gas? Well, it's actually a combination of carbon and hydrogen, right? CH four, four hydrogen molecules and one carbon molecule. And we also call it fossil gas increasingly or methane because you know, the natural gas branding is to sort of make it sound more harmless and warm and fuzzy when actually this is a pretty potent greenhouse gas and it's not the kind of thing you wanna be breathing in. And increasingly the climate movement is trying to rebrand this gas, why do we call it natural gas? I am now teaching an energy policy class as I usually do, and I've updated my slides to say fossil gas or methane, rather than saying natural gas.

1 (17m 10s):
So how long have we been using natural gas? May be unnatural gas. How long have we been using it in our homes

18 (17m 16s):
For a long time? For many decades. But scientists have been warning us for over 30 years now that actually there's a dark side to this, that gas stoves are emitting chemicals into our home that can really pose health hazards.

1 (17m 31s):
In the last three decades have Americans generally tried to stop using natural gas in our homes with, with the scientific warning in mind.

18 (17m 39s):
I don't think that most people had any sense that using a gas stove was bad for their health.

1 (17m 44s):
I

18 (17m 45s):
Did not. Yeah, no, I mean most people didn't. I I, I went to give testimony at Congress and I was talking about electrification and I mentioned some new research, actually hadn't even been published yet. But I had talked to the researchers. It's since been published in a peer reviewed journal. And it's that even when your gas stove is turned off, it can be leaking, leaking gas into your home. Even when a gas stove or other gas appliance is turned off, it is still leaking. And that gas contains carcinogens like benzene, which cause cancer. And when you're cooking with the gas, you're also releasing nitrous oxides as well as formaldehyde. You've probably heard of formaldehyde before. Also a carcinogen also bad for your health.

18 (18m 27s):
It's a combustion byproduct. Thankfully we've got the solutions to remove pollution from our homes. We can use electric technologies like induction stoves and heat pumps, clean electricity combined with electrification could cut three quarters of our carbon pollution. So, you know, when I gave that testimony, my sisters watched it and they both said they were scared of their gas stove and they wanted to get rid of it. My younger sister, she has health challenges and she did, she got a beautiful induction range and got rid of a quite expensive gas stove actually. So I think more and more people, they just didn't know about this. They didn't make that connection. And there's a reason why people didn't make the connection. The gas industry has been marketing to us and hoodwinking the American people to think that this is better and you should want it when actually it's making you sick.

1 (19m 13s):
I am very sympathetic to people who have been misinformed, which is why the whole Republican versus Democrat debate. I, I think I, I am less in tune with it because if a person has been lied to and believes a thing, you're not gonna get them to easily change their mind and say, Hey, let me switch over to electric or to an induction stove. But, but policy makers can decide to stop natural gas. Could, could a city say no new buildings are gonna have natural gas hookups, guys, it's gonna be electricity or induction, we're not doing gas. Has that happened? Could it happen?

18 (19m 45s):
I mean it already is happening all over the country. So there's more than 50 cities in California that have said no new gas, new construction that happened in my city of Santa Barbara. And interestingly, the gas industry launched a big campaign to try to block it from passing. And basically they texted hundreds if not thousands of people in my community lying to them saying that, you know, the government was gonna take away their gas stove. The exact same thing we're seeing in this moment. It's not true. The government was not taking away anybody's gas stove. And so the city council got all these letters from people being like, how could you take away my gas stove? And the city council thankfully didn't fall for this astroturfing, fake grassroots bs.

18 (20m 30s):
They said, no, we aren't going to put gas in new construction. And they passed that rule. So that rule now exists in New York City as well. So if you're building a new building in New York City, you can't put gas in it. And so really let's start with the low hanging fruit. Let's say we're building new stuff, stuff. Let's not put poisonous climate warming terrible stuff in those buildings. And then for people who have gas stoves, no one's taking it from you except maybe yourself. Maybe you're gonna start looking at your gas stove a little differently. I know I had that experience. You know, I'm currently electrifying my house, so I'm cooking on induction and we're gonna be fully electrified, no more gas.

18 (21m 12s):
But because we were renovating it, we had to live in an Airbnb for a couple months and I have infant twins, they're like a year and a half. And the, the gas stove in this Airbnb was super sketchy and it had one of those vents that's like in the ceiling, not at all near the range. And oh yeah, it was like one of those ones you put in your bathroom. It was not really like up to code. So every time we cooked, you know, we had Thanksgiving in this place, you know, we cooked meals for our kids. But every single time I just thought, oh my gosh, like I have my kids in the same room cuz it was all open concept and I'm burning something that I know is going to irritate their lungs and it's gonna put up pollution levels in this room really high and we could barely open the door cause we have a cat and couldn't get the cat to go outside.

18 (21m 60s):
So it's just like stressful. So I'm really excited to live in a home where I don't have to think about whether or not I'm causing asthma for my kids. And you know, they were born premature. They don't have super robust lungs and a lot of people, you know, are probably scared about what are they doing to their children just by trying to cook them dinner. Nobody wants to do something like that. And the good news is there's a great alternative. It's called induction. What is induction? Well induction is an modern electric technology. It's like cooking with magnets, we say rather than cooking with gas, our new slogan could be cooking with electricity or cooking with

22 (22m 35s):
Magnets. I bought an induction stove last year and I am never going back to gas. This thing heats up stupid fast, faster than gas, maybe a little too fast. Okay, yeah, don't heat and empty pan and then add oil to it, I guess. Oh, well that's what the fan is for.

18 (22m 53s):
It's very efficient, super fast, very precise. Great technology. A lot of people, if you say electric stoves are gonna think about those old sketchy coils. I'm not telling you to get a sketchy coil. Okay? That's not what's happening here. Instead, I'm saying maybe get an induction stove. And a lot of people might not have heard of this, but they're really common in Europe, they're increasingly common in the United States, and it's a really fast way to heat up the pan. Rather than just wasting a lot of energy into the air and creating a lot of pollution. You just directly transfer electricity to a pan by basically vibrating metals in the pan. So you've gotta have like iron in the pan so that it vibrates along with the electricity.

18 (23m 34s):
That's basically the idea. Chefs increasingly love induction because they realize it's way more precise.

23 (23m 40s):
I love cooking on induction, whether it's at home or in a restaurant. You know, as a chef we've used induction in restaurants for a long time. It's because you get such a precise result. You're in total control as the cook. You can really dictate exactly where that heat is at. When you're cooking, you get

18 (23m 55s):
Beautiful. You want it to be this temperature, you can get exactly that temperature and you don't have a side of pollution with your dinner.

1 (24m 1s):
Do you think we have hit an inflection point in the fight over natural gas?

18 (24m 5s):
Absolutely. I mean, I think the gas industry played this kind of poorly. This may not be the perfect way for us to have this conversation, right, if we were gonna design this to educate the American people. But climate advocates have kind of been having that perfect conversation alone for years now. But now when you have 3,600 stories about gas stoves in a week, even if some of them are negative or about the culture wars or whatever, that is massive communication.

9 (24m 33s):
The EPA has found that natural gas stoves emit air pollutants such as nitrogen dioxide and carbon monoxide and are linked to respiratory illness, cardiovascular problems, and other health conditions. Okay, that's not great. But counterpoint gas stoves are also linked to delicious pan seared scallops. Little butter bath, Phil. Come

18 (24m 53s):
On baby. I mean, when Colbert is talking about it, people start learning about the pollution in the heart of their homes and they can't unlearn that. They can't unsee that. And I think that we have planted a seed that is going to grow into a very big tree. And I know that because already on Twitter, people are posting pictures of gas stoves out on the curb in their neighborhood. So some people are taking this news pretty hard and pretty fast and already starting to ditch their gas stoves.

1 (25m 23s):
That was Leah Stokes. She teaches at uc, Santa Barbara and co-host the Climate Podcast. A matter of degrees. Earlier we talked to Rebecca Leber, who's a senior climate reporter at Fox. Today's episode was produced by Aha Artsy. It was edited, in fact, checked by Matthew Collect and Amina Elad, and engineered by Paul Robert Mosey Amelle King. It's today explained.