1 (3s):
The documentary Shiny Happy People. Duggar Family Secrets was Amazon's biggest documentary debut ever. It's about the evangelical Christian family who were stars of TLC's 19 kids and counting some things about the Duggars were already well-known. They were part of a movement where having and then homeschooling many, many children was encouraged creating an army for God. It was sometimes called less well known was that the Duggars considered themselves and their kids part of something called the Joshua generation. It sounds almost conspiratorial, but these kids were raised to become influential in places where influence mattered.

2 (38s):
The goal was Christian homeschool graduates who would be US senators? Who would be US presidents, and most importantly who would be us Supreme Court justices coming

1 (49s):
Up on today explained a show. We aired earlier This year on what the Joshua generation is and why some evangelical Christians are turning their backs on it.

3 (60s):
Support for this show comes from Kraken. Crypto is like the financial system, but different. It doesn't care where you come from, what you look like, your credit score or your outrageous food delivery habits. Crypto is financed for everyone everywhere all the time. Kraken, see what crypto can be, not investment advice. Crypto trading involves risk of loss. Cryptocurrency services are provided to us and US territory customers by pay Word Ventures incorporated. View PBIS disclosures at kraken dot com slash legal slash disclosures.

1 (1m 32s):
Hey, there it's Noel from today. Explained since 2020, Vox has turned to our readers to help us keep Vox journalism free. Most newsrooms make money through either advertising or subscriptions, but for us, there are a couple of big problems with that. First advertising goes up and down with the economy. And second, we are not into subscriptions. Vox is here to help everyone understand complex issues, not just people who can afford to pay for it. And we cannot do that of course, if we have a paywall So. if you believe in the public value of news, please help us get to 95,000 gifts by the end of the year by going to Vox dot com slash give.

1 (2m 22s):
It's today explained Ab Noel King. Kristin Cobe Dume is a historian and author of the book, Jesus and John Wayne. She was featured in shiny, happy people explaining things about the evangelical movement. And so I called her to explain to us what the Joshua generation is.

4 (2m 38s):
It was a term coined by Michael Ferris who may not be familiar to people outside of evangelical spaces, but within conservative evangelicalism. He's an extremely important figure. A lawyer who founded the Homeschool Legal Defense Association has been instrumental in advancing a conservative legal agenda and in training up a younger generation of culture warriors. And that's the Joshua generation. It is supposed to be a generation now who would be trained and equipped to take back the country for God To understand the agenda of the Joshua generation, you have to go back a little further to the 1960s and 1970s.

6 (3m 27s):
We're asking you, our friend watching through television to join us as these are joining us here in the big tent cathedral. We want your compassion.

4 (3m 37s):
And this is really the the rise of the Christian right that we're talking about, but a particular strand of it, a theological foundation that revolves around the ideas of an obscure person by the name of rj Rush Dooney.

7 (3m 53s):
Now, this tells us something about man and about education that only Christian education can succeed.

4 (4m 0s):
He essentially said that the society needed to be reconstructed. And so his philosophy is called Christian Reconstructionism. It needed to be reconstructed according to God's Old Testament law.

8 (4m 13s):
I think people sense that things are falling apart, that a worldwide breakdown is underway of our culture. The state is a bankrupt institution. As a result, they're going to have to find it religiously or going to a dark age

4 (4m 29s):
Authority and hierarchy was critical. Rush uni's own ideas were also white supremacists.

8 (4m 36s):
God is going to give the country to somebody else if the white Christian population has no regard for the blessings they receive.

4 (4m 46s):
But essentially it was an agenda to bring all of American society, American law, American culture in line with his interpretation of the Old Testament.

1 (5m 2s):
I wonder in this whether we are talking about evangelical Christians or a certain type of evangelical

4 (5m 8s):
Christian. Yeah, certainly not all evangelical Christians would be followers of Rush Doy. He was fringe. His ideas were powerful in a small group of conservative Presbyterian denominations. It's influential in particular spaces, but especially in the homeschool movement because core to Rush uni's philosophy was that God has ordained authorities in life and it is wrong. It is evil to usurp the proper authorities. So that's the authority of the father and the husband inside of a family. It's the authority of parents over children.

4 (5m 49s):
It's the authority of family over against government. But then the ultimate goal was for the good Christians who are properly trained to observe these proper hierarchies, to ultimately then go out and influence the rest of culture to reconstruct America, to make it into a Christian nation once again.

9 (6m 9s):
Tonight 19 kids and counting star Jim, Bob Dugger announcing today that he is running for a seat in the Arkansas Senate.

4 (6m 16s):
Now, this is not the mainstream movement of evangelicalism, but historically you can see how his ideas influenced figures who were mainstream and through the Joshua generation have really gone kind of mainstream into Republican politics, training up young people to work in government, to campaign to elect officials who will further this agenda.

1 (6m 40s):
So uni provides the foundation, but then another man takes his ideas and brings them further into the mainstream to families like the Duggars. He founded a group called the Institute for Basic Life Principles. Tell me about Bill Goard.

4 (6m 56s):
Bill Goard founded this organization in the 1960s in order to help Christian parents raise their kids 1960s. This is when the counterculture, civil rights movement, movement, all of these rights movements were disrupting the status quo.

10 (7m 19s):
I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up, live up the true meaning of its

11 (7m 31s):
In this nation for all its hope and all its hope will not be fully freed until all its citizens are freed.

12 (7m 40s):
Now, thanks to the spirit of equality in the and to the work of many of my more foresighted sisters, I no longer accept society judgment than my group is second class.

4 (7m 54s):
A lot of parents were asking, how do we raise our kids? And Christian parents were especially concerned and he stepped in and he offered answers. The answers that he offered were structured around a very conservative, even reactionary interpretation of the Bible. It involved teaching patriarchal authority.

13 (8m 14s):
As long as we're under these umbrellas of protection, Satan cannot get through with destructive temptations.

4 (8m 21s):
A male leadership teaching girls to be modest, their role was as homemakers, as wives, as mothers who would lead up the next generation of young Christians.

14 (8m 33s):
We want to pass on to young ladies what it means to be lovely and feminine.

4 (8m 39s):
And he really emphasized teachings like sexual purity. He called eye traps. Anything that a woman would wear that might draw a man's attention or fill him with lust and so much responsibility was placed on obedience.

15 (8m 56s):
The first time I say it, you obey it. And they can quote that with mommy, and we practice, yes ma'am, I will obey you. That's huge

4 (9m 6s):
Obedience to your God-ordained authorities, instant obedience, cheerful obedience. And he taught parents to train up their children to give that instant obedience. So corporal punishment was essential to his recommendations for child rearing.

10 (9m 23s):
If he screams too hard with the first five, gets hysterical weight, you know, a little psychological tariff, sometimes more effective than the pain,

4 (9m 30s):
Even little babies needed to be disciplined harshly.

16 (9m 34s):
The real benefit of that is that when a child sees this neutral object coming out of the drawer or whatever, it becomes like a policeman

4 (9m 44s):
In order to guarantee that children would be obedient and submissive to their parents, their God-ordained authorities, so that through all of life they would continue to act in that submission to their proper authorities.

1 (10m 0s):
How many people were involved in this? How? How big did it get?

4 (10m 4s):
So the numbers are hard to track and they are coming from a goard himself. You're talking about probably a couple of million people who have had fairly direct exposure to godard's teaching through communities. But indirectly you're talking probably tens of millions who have been shaped in some way by godard's teachings and often they aren't even aware that that's where these ideas are coming from.

1 (10m 32s):
How did he actually become involved in homeschooling

4 (10m 35s):
For gohar? Homeschooling was absolutely critical because public schools interfered with parental authority. You don't want government schools as people often called them in these spaces instructing your children. And so Gohar not only encouraged homeschooling in his seminars, he also developed a homeschool curriculum called the Advanced Training Institute or a TI. And so parents could use his materials, his curriculum to train their children. Well, the

17 (11m 7s):
Purpose of the Advanced Training Institute is to train up young men and women to become leaders of the next century. And I think today we have so much of a a negative peer pressure coming in from the outside world, that young people need a role model, someone to look up to

1 (11m 25s):
What was the intended outcome for kids who went through Christian homeschooling.

4 (11m 30s):
What they wanted for their kids depended in some cases on if it was a son or a daughter. Many within this movement didn't want their daughters to go on to college. And so there's a kind of offshoot here, the Stay at Home Daughter movement, which suggests that you know, once you finish your your schooling, then you stay at home under the authority of your father until through courtship you are then handed off to a husband. And so that's part of this movement. Not all members of even the conservative wing of the homeschool movement went along with that. Many did send their their girls to college, but usually to Christian colleges as kind of the next step for these homeschool kids to further equip them to fulfill their God-ordained roles.

4 (12m 19s):
They knew that their numbers were small, very small, but they focused on placing their graduates in positions of great influence. And this is where the broader network comes in. Many Republican candidates and Republican members of Congress would draw interns from Patrick Henry College. Patrick

18 (12m 38s):
Henry College seeks to produce new leaders who, like the founding fathers are trained in the traditions of freedom, equipped with the skills of leadership and instilled with the character of Christ in his word.

4 (12m 50s):
Their students would work on political campaigns for Republicans across the country. So their goal was power and strategic positions of power throughout the government.

1 (13m 2s):
Do we know any of the people who graduated from Patrick Henry College? Is there, is there like a Supreme court justice or anything that we should know about?

4 (13m 9s):
Not yet in terms of Supreme court, but probably the most famous member of Gen J is Madison Cawthorne.

19 (13m 18s):
And so I'm telling you, all of you moms here, the people who I said were the most vicious in our, in our movement, if you were raising a young man, please raise them to be a monster.

4 (13m 28s):
So he would be an example. He did not graduate from Patrick Henry College. He didn't make it all the way through, but he is in some ways a kind of poster boy or at least used to be for the potential for these graduates.

1 (13m 41s):
So ultimately, would we say that the plan, the plan for the Joshua generation succeeded or failed or partially succeeded? How would you characterize what what has happened?

4 (13m 51s):
I would say they're not done yet. They're not done. This is not a democratic movement, but it is a movement that is very strategic and intent upon using our democratic mechanisms to place themselves in positions of power so that they can take hold of this country, reshape its laws and and bring it into accord with their vision

1 (14m 25s):
Coming up. I took a drive out to Virginia to meet two former members of the Joshua generation Support for today. Explain comes from Noom. There is a whole big weight loss industry. It can be hard to figure out what works for you. Noom wants to tell you a bit about noom. Noom uses science and personalization to try to help you manage your weight over the long term. Noom says that their psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors and you can decide how Noom fits into your life and not the other way around.

1 (15m 6s):
Noom offered a sample of 4,272 NOOM ERs and 98% of them said Noom helped them change their habits and behaviors for good. Sarah Frank is my colleague here at Vox who works on the business side of things. She had a chance to try out Noom and tell us how it went. There

20 (15m 20s):
Were days where I was overeating based on my goal and days where I was undereating and Noom had a very clever way of also matching my mood to those days. So I could actually see after about a week that I tend to eat less on days that I'm a little anxious or stressed and days that I'm more relaxed, I'm eating more and I know some people's habits are the opposite of that.

1 (15m 43s):
You can sign up for a trial today at noom dot com. That's NOOM dot com to sign up for a trial today.

3 (15m 53s):
Support for this show comes from Kraken. Crypto is like the financial system but different. It doesn't care where you come from, what you look like, your credit score or your outrageous food delivery habits. Crypto is financed for everyone everywhere all the time. Kraken gives you the tools to access this new world of finance. Whether you're a pro or just starting out. Kraken is the simple powerful way to buy, sell and learn about crypto. Their intuitive trading tools grow with you, empowering you to make your first or your 100th trade in just a few clicks. And if you get stuck, their award-winning client support team is available 24 7 along with a bunch of educational resources to help you on your way.

3 (16m 38s):
Kraken, see what crypto can be, not investment advice. Crypto trading involves risk of loss. Cryptocurrency services are provided to us and US territory customers by pay Word Ventures incorporated. View PVI disclosures at kraken dot com slash legal slash disclosures.

21 (16m 55s):
If you've been following trends in the drinks world these days, you will probably know that vermouth is no longer a grandpa drink. It's hot

22 (17m 2s):
Vermouth and its bitter Cousin Amma. They're having a moment.

21 (17m 6s):
Wait. Vermouth and Amaro are cousins. I know they're both a little bitter, but

22 (17m 9s):
You are not alone in your confusion. And that's why this episode of Gastropod, we are on the case of the confusing bitter drinks.

21 (17m 17s):
What's vermouth? How is an amro different from an aperitif and how are they both different from Adi Digestif? Why would you drink one type of bitter laur before a meal and one after

22 (17m 27s):
We've got the answers you need to drink the drinks you want. Plus the weird story of how it's all connected to alchemy as well as Napoleon's little known perfume drinking habit.

21 (17m 38s):
Find and Subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (17m 44s):
Do something for explained,

23 (17m 54s):
I'm Christina Beal and I am a stay-at-Home Mom.

24 (17m 57s):
I'm Aaron Beal and I'm a software engineer.

1 (17m 59s):
Very cool. Alright, so guys, in the first half of our show we heard about this term that I will admit was unfamiliar to me until a couple of weeks ago, something called the Joshua generation. Can you tell me what does that term mean to you?

24 (18m 11s):
Growing up there was sort of a constellation of beliefs that probably could fall under the category of Joshua generation. I don't know that I was ever told like you are the Joshua generation, but the ideas around it about us kind of being separate from the world, pulled out into homeschool and raised up to be a very militaristic language kind of kids that were going to grow up and we were going to literally storm the political and cultural scene and be part of the movement to turn the nation back to our parents' view of, you know, a good godly nation

23 (18m 45s):
In my family. In the environment in which we were raised women had the role of having a lot of babies to sort of out populate any other religious groups, as silly as that sounds. That was, that was the stated goal, scorn birth control and have as many babies as you possibly can in order to raise up a, just like flood of Christians. That was the role I was taught, that you were to be a mom and have a lot of babies. And another big thing was you were supposed to help your husband. There was language such as the husband sits in the gates with the elders of the land, but the woman is supposed to be content to stay at home.

23 (19m 29s):
She's not supposed to have those kinds of aspirations.

1 (19m 31s):
Were you both homeschooled? Yes,

24 (19m 33s):
I definitely had the sense being homeschooled that the rest of the world just wouldn't understand the world that we had and that that was sort of an indictment of the rest of the world and we had the truth and someday maybe the rest of the world would be able to understand. But until then, you know, whatever we're doing inside is sort of by definition best.

1 (19m 57s):
What were you learning it in first grade, second grade, seventh grade, eighth grade at home that maybe you wouldn't have been learning if you had gone to public school?

24 (20m 4s):
Well, Christianity was certainly infused in all of the topics I did have. I think I had adequate baseline academic education. I had typical subjects, but they were very much colored with what I would now understand is kind of Christian nationalist bias and, and slant. I don't ever remember learning about how, for example, the civil rights movement really came to fruition. And I certainly remember being told on numerous occasions that racism is kind of a thing in the past and we've dealt with it, which I now understand is not at all the case. Basically they'd start with the Bible and then try to connect it to various school topics and it, it would be some things that are almost hard to put into words 'cause they're so strange.

24 (20m 45s):
Like a diagram, helping you identify the eye traps of female dress, which is just basically teaching me slut shaming as I understand it, there were no boundary between religious indoctrination and education. The two were kind of just always the same thing. I was absolutely led to believe that evolution is really just a big conspiracy, that there's no evidence for it. That all the scientists out there are basically just wanting to disprove God and please themselves and come up with excuses to not believe in God. That that's really what the foundation of evolution was about. I really believed that because that's all I knew. It really took adulthood and reading books that weren't trying to disprove God.

24 (21m 27s):
They were simply explaining science and explaining the data and explaining the history behind how we got to our understanding. That made me realize that that rhetoric was basically a lie and I had no outside voice as a homeschooled child to even begin to know that that could be wrong.

23 (21m 44s):
I think for both of us, our families sort of doubled down in these movements as we were teenagers and as we were becoming young adults with our own fledgling interests and ideas. And that's the opposite. It's, it's more of an air we breathed than like, I learned this specific lesson on this specific day, but of you've gotta submit to authority. You are not an adult until you are, I mean, Aaron heard this, you're not an adult until you're walking down the aisle to get married. That somehow you magically become an adult at that, that point in time. They

24 (22m 21s):
Call it the transfer of authority.

23 (22m 23s):
Yeah. So there was not this gradual blossoming into adulthood, blossoming into your own person. There was at that time when our parents sensed that there was more of a lockdown restriction, make them more who we want them to be.

1 (22m 37s):
So on the day you guys walked down the aisle, it's a Christian wedding. Oh yeah. Yeah. And the understanding for both of you at that point in that moment was, what year was this?

24 (22m 46s):
2012.

1 (22m 46s):
2012. Little over a decade ago. The understanding for you both as you walked down the aisle that day was Christian household homeschooling for sure. Yeah. As many kids as we possibly can. Yeah. And you're fully bought in and then we're sitting here today because at some point something changed. Yeah, what happened?

24 (23m 5s):
I would say having kids because then you're looking at another human being and filtering your ideology through, here's a human being that I love and I have my own values and I have my own thoughts. And one of the very first things that I felt like ideologically I started to peel away was with discipline. We had been taught not just that spanking is okay, but that it's an imperative and it is godly and it's good and you love your child if you hit them. But the first time I had to, supposedly based on the training that I'd received hit my child, something just didn't connect and I couldn't do it.

23 (23m 43s):
I had spanked him a couple small times when they were very young, but it was this realization of like, wait a second, science matters, like established knowledge matters and there's research here that shows that this can be harmful to children. And that's sort of when I was like, I mean we rarely, rarely, rarely, I rarely spanked our children and it was categorically different than what we were raised with. But again, it was this idea that you must do this. And I realized like, wait, I don't think I have to. And I think it was because of science,

24 (24m 19s):
Basically the moment that I realized so much of what I believed to be absolutely true was really just a presupposition. And that I had been taught that that's actually how you know truth is just by presupposing all these things we've given you. It fell apart as soon as I could actually think critically and engage data outside my worldview and not just write it off as a conspiracy. There is actual science and data that that supports views that contradict what I had been told.

23 (24m 45s):
We began going to a still rather conservative evangelical church. Yeah. But that was a breath of fresh air for us. Yeah. There were people there who weren't having as many children as they could. There were people there who sent their kids to public school. Yeah. And it was a slow and gradual process of us, you know? Yeah. We would, we would joke as a young married couple, we do something just the tiniest bit deviant from how we'd been raised, maybe wearing pants to church and we'd be like, oh, we're quitting the vision. So yeah.

1 (25m 18s):
So the vision all along has been you will work and provide, you will stay home and homeschool the kids. Right. And you guys have to make a decision that you are not gonna do that anymore. When did that happen and what was the reasoning?

24 (25m 32s):
For me it was just so I very much deconstructed, I'm not even religious at all at this point. I respect religious beliefs. Wow. But for me, I am, I, I don't use that as the foundation for my life. So I just lived for so long under the assumption that homeschooling is the way it has to be done. I started to look at other options and it just turns out that we live right down the street from an excellent, excellent school. So it just made me think, well here's a resource that we could use. And the more I learned about it and about the kids in our neighborhood that go there, the more it just seemed like a great option.

23 (26m 7s):
Yeah. So we ended up sending our daughter Amy to first grade, just Amy, while I kept Ezra our oldest home for third grade. And then Oliver was kind of doing some pre-K stuff. And I think it's important to remember at this point in time, my identity was a homeschool mom. I very much felt like, you know, how are we gonna break the news to our families? Who am I if I have failed at homeschooling? Because this has been my whole life calling. So I sort of begged Darren, okay, I'll, I'll let Amy go as long as I can. Homeschool Ezra This year. Well, fast forward it went phenomenally well for Amy. We fell in love with the community.

23 (26m 49s):
We began to see everything we had missed out on and just how much of a hub of the community, the elementary school even was, you know, getting to know our neighbors in ways we never had before. And by the next summer I was still like, okay, I'll homeschool Ezra. 'cause he was, he was enjoying and thriving in homeschool, but I just had this nagging sense of I don't want him to miss this, this so good and going so well, and I don't want him to miss it. And I mean, even as I say that, I want to be clear that I have nothing against homeschooling. I think homeschooling can be done very well.

23 (27m 29s):
I loved my time homeschooling my kids and I even, there's a part of me that hopes I will again someday, but the reason this was a momentous decision was because it was a shift from homeschooling is the only way, this is your identity. This is what you must do to, wow. We can embrace some other options. And they're not nearly as scary as we've been told they are.

1 (27m 53s):
You're no longer an evangelical Christian. Correct. What about you, KA?

23 (27m 56s):
I am. You

1 (27m 57s):
Are

23 (27m 58s):
I? I do still consider myself a Christian. Evangelical is up for debate. Yeah.

0 (28m 14s):
Today's

1 (28m 15s):
Episode was produced by Victoria Chamberlin who went into labor with her second child while making it Si Petros picked it up from there. It was edited by Amina Elsa, in fact, checked by Laura Bullard. It was engineered by Patrick Boyd and Michael Rayfield. I'm Noel King. It's today. Explained

3 (28m 60s):
Support for this show comes from Kraken Crypto is like finance, but different. It doesn't care when you invest, trade or save, do it on weekends or at 5:00 AM or on vacation at 5:00 AM Crypto is finance for everyone everywhere all the time. Kraken. See what crypto can be. Not investment advice. Crypto trading involves risk of loss. Cryptocurrency services are provided to us and US territory customers by pay. Word Ventures Incorporated. View p bs disclosures at kraken dot com slash legal slash disclosures.