0 (0s):
When the wind blow our ancestors push us too March into battle against those who in slavery.

1 (8s):
I went to see a movie last Friday, the woman king loved it. The ancestors would love it today. It's out in theaters. It's set 200 years ago in the west African king of Dae, which was a real place. Viola Davis plays a ferocious general named NACA who leads an army of women's soldiers against European slaves and an enemy African tribe.

0 (29s):
We fight not just for today, but for the future. We are the spirit. The freedom,

1 (41s):
The woman warriors of Dae were also real as is this uncomfortable truth. Their kingdom got rich in part by capturing and selling its enemies into slavery. Coming up on today, explained the director, tells us how she balanced a history that is both triumphant and tragic.

2 (1m 0s):
Only one sale away from the Shopify. 1000 club.

3 (1m 3s):
Is that a thing? Wow.

2 (1m 5s):
Mom have a cookie.

3 (1m 6s):
I'll take one.

1 (1m 8s):
Dad. These

3 (1m 8s):
Are delicious. You need to show them

2 (1m 12s):
We should, mom. No, seriously. Let's set you up on Shopify. It's

3 (1m 15s):
Easy. I always knew you would build your own business guys.

2 (1m 18s):
Yum. When you're ready to bring your idea to life, build it on Shopify. Sign up for a free 14 day trial at shopify.com/offer 22 shopify.com/offer 22

5 (1m 31s):
Rings of power. The little mermaid reboot game of Thrones. Something always happens with fantasy. Whenever characters of color are introduced,

6 (1m 41s):
It's the black person sitting up being a Knight or a mermaid that causes the hesitation. It's as much as the flutter of a dragon swinging or fairy dust, it's that profound.

5 (1m 55s):
I'm Sam Sanders. Join me on Intuit from vulture to hear about fantasies. Race problem.

1 (2m 11s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. The director, Gina prince Bywood has proven herself in Hollywood love and basketball beyond the lights, the old guard. But when she pitched the woman king, it was almost like Hollywood executives forgot her distinguished resume. She wanted to make an action movie starring black women set two centuries ago where men are barely on screen and Hollywood was like,

7 (2m 38s):
You know, Hollywood is a fascinating place in that. People speak on wanting original stories yet they continually fall back on what's familiar because what's familiar is safe. There's a proven track record to that. So when you come out with original content, which me as an audience, that's what I get excited about. It's a harder sell. It's certainly a harder sell when it's a movie, a historical epic, which is absolutely a genre. That's been dominated by male stories and male heroes and male protagonists and villains. And certainly we've never seen this with black women before.

1 (3m 20s):
And so what was your attitude going into the room with people who you knew might be skeptics?

7 (3m 25s):
I would like to say my enthusiasm and passion for this. When I read the script, I saw the movie and I feel like I'm my first audience. And the movie in my head was exactly the type of movie I would die to see. And so it was bringing that passion into the room, but not only the passion, but the swagger of everything I'm telling you. I want this film to be, I can do because my body of work has shown you that I can do that.

1 (3m 52s):
You really wanna do this

0 (3m 53s):
Kid.

7 (3m 54s):
And certainly having the old guard on my resume at that point was absolutely helpful in their belief that yes, she could do the action and do these big set pieces. Well, people discount what passion can do. When you go into a room, you're convincing somebody give you millions of dollars. They have to be inspired and excited by your vision. And so that's really what I came in with.

1 (4m 23s):
This is a movie that is based on real historical events and a real historical kingdom, which of course makes things more complicated. When you approached this movie, did you have some amount of trepidation about how you would make the history come alive and how you would deal with some of the, some of the historical challenges?

7 (4m 43s):
I wouldn't say it wasn't intimidation. I think because historical epics are some of my favorite films, you know, Braveheart

0 (4m 52s):
That they may take our lives, but they'll never take,

7 (4m 59s):
I've watched it a hundred times. I love that film lasted the Mohicans, gladiator, you know, these films that are set in a true time in history. And yet there is some inventiveness in terms of the characters and your ability to tell personal stories within that. So I knew going in the balance that I wanted to have, and the confidence in that and the excitement in being able to tell the story of this kingdom, like that's that extra thing to know that these women were real, that this David and Goliath battle that they had was real and the stakes were real. And the reasons for it were real that this kingdom was real, that the politics and gender politics were real.

7 (5m 43s):
I just kept getting more excited as I got deeper into, into the research because I, I saw more truth and more authenticity that I could pour into the story.

1 (5m 55s):
A lot of the movies that you seem to admire those movies center men, they always have. Right? And yes, and this is one where you just were not doing that. Viola Davis is not just the star. She's the beating heart of the movie. The rest of the main cast are all women. Did you know, you were making something that would be game changing if it was done. Right.

7 (6m 19s):
Ah, I guess I, I looked at it as I knew we were doing something that hadn't been done before. That was exciting as an artist to be able to do that. And I knew because of that and who was fronting this movie who were the heroes in this movie? I feel like I had more pressure and I'm saying, self-imposed pressure on getting it right. I needed people to be able to go to this movie and just be enthralled by these warriors. When I started watching it, as we're cutting it together, the smiles I would find myself doing when I'm just looking up on the screen and seeing these characters, it's like, oh, we did this.

7 (7m 2s):
And I get to watch this anytime I want, I get to turn on our editing monitors and watch these warriors, these black women being heroes. And that, that was really exciting.

1 (7m 19s):
I wanna ask you about the history here. Cause some of this is difficult. There was a kingdom of Demi and one of the ways in which this kingdom became very wealthy was that they did capture their enemies and sell them to European slave traders. A lot of this was going on in west Africa at the time. Yes. And that is a very difficult thing for a filmmaker. I would imagine because your heroes are part of a kingdom that is doing this thing that is appalling. And historically one of the most terrible things that has ever happened, how did you wrestle with my good women are part of a kingdom that is doing this awful thing.

7 (7m 57s):
It was the knowledge that at the time that we're setting this, that the kingdom was at a crossroads and the legit crossroads of half of this kingdom. And it's people wanting to abolish being a part of the trade and the other half wanting to keep it because it gave them their wealth and being able to use these women as that voice of wanting to change. And so being able to deal with, yes, they did this, but there was a fight and a young king Gazo was in the middle of this, trying to decide which way to go and ultimately deciding to go against it, knowing that that could affect his, his reign, which I, you know, for me personally, I find heroic in that he potentially gave up his power to do the right thing.

7 (8m 47s):
You're

1 (8m 48s):
Referring to a theme throughout the movie, but there's one very vivid scene in which Viola Davis' character who plays the general NCA tries to convince the king, played by John Boyega to give up the slave trade and instead make money off of the production of Palm oil, which is something the kingdom of Dae has a lot of. And he says, slave trading is why we prosper. And she says, but at what price historically, did that conversation happen?

7 (9m 16s):
Oh, absolutely. They had the potential and they ultimately did go to Palm oil production as their main source of income. Did it happen specifically with NACA, the NACAS and amalgamation of a number of different people, but that is a direction that they ultimately went to. This was the story. And there were moments where some felt it would've been easier to not focus on that and make it easy. And I wasn't gonna do that. We had to be truthful.

1 (9m 49s):
Okay. Okay. There was so much about this movie, visually the costumes, the landscapes, the weapons, the architecture, the music, the dancing, you created an intensely convincing world. And that's a very hard thing to pull off. How much time did you spend trying to make this absolutely authentic as a portrayal of DOI in 1823? And how much did you say no one, except historians really knows what it looks like. We can take some creative liberties. Tell me about the decisions that went into that.

7 (10m 20s):
The decision was immediate. We are going to be as authentic as possible. And that meant me and all my department heads were tasked with doing a deep dive into the research and foremost, it was separating truth from those who had, you know, a definitive reason to make us seem like savages and really take away our humanity in the way that they described the kingdom and the people and what they were about and the things that they did with those who didn't, who were telling the truth. We found these couple journals written by missionaries who made the trip, and that was invaluable. And this was pre photographs, which makes it difficult.

7 (11m 2s):
So it was great though, to be able to look at the different sources and piece together, what they would've worn the social dynamics, how they had that equality within the council because of the two gods that were their main deities, which were a man and a woman. And so having that equality within the palace, despite the patriarchy outside of the palace, how the women trained the fact that they created these elaborate choreographed dances and the fact that the palace, some of the palace is still there. And so we were able to recreate exactly what the palace would look like.

7 (11m 42s):
It was, we have to do this the right way. We have to be authentic. We are telling the truth. Again, it's not a documentary, but we are world building. And we're putting an audience into this world that they haven't seen before. And so you, you need to be as accurate as possible.

1 (12m 4s):
What do you want your audience to take away from this?

7 (12m 9s):
There's a couple things. Certainly I want all audiences to be able to come outta here and just think I just saw an incredible movie and incredible warriors and it doesn't matter that they didn't look like me. I just saw them. I saw this woman, I felt it. And I want women to be able to watch this and be inspired and understand that we have an innate warrior within us. I wish I had this when I was little, because like I was an athlete and the amount of times I was told something was wrong with me because I liked sports and didn't wanna wear dresses and just gravitated towards athletics, to normalize being a warrior and normalizing who these women were.

7 (12m 59s):
And not just that they were badass, but also that their vulnerability was a strength that the sisterhood, that depth of living and dying for each other. I want women to feel that, and I want black women to be able to see themselves in a way that we've never seen ourselves and take that in, ingest it and walk differently.

1 (13m 24s):
Coming up. How close does the movie get to the real kingdom of de homemade? And we talk to a descendant of the woman warriors.

9 (13m 38s):
Hi, I'm Victoria Dominguez. V's audio fellow I've been producing on today. Explained this summer. I started getting targeted ads on social media from a company called cerebral describing ADHD symptoms. When they started talking about getting prescriptions sent by mail. I began wondering how that was even legal. So I made an episode about it called Adderall via Instagram. And part of that was made possible because of generous listeners like you. So if you could make a gift at vox.com/give today to help us keep our journalism free and help us keep making more episodes, thanks for your support and keep an ear out for more behind the scenes stories from our podcast team,

4 (14m 27s):
A

10 (14m 27s):
Global developing story of what could be the biggest medical scandal and decades, the

11 (14m 32s):
Data behind the most influential theory of what causes Alzheimer's disease may have been manipulated.

12 (14m 37s):
The study that more than 16 years of research was based on had tampered with the

13 (14m 43s):
Results. And if that turns out to be true, it means about a billion dollars in us. Taxpayer money used for Alzheimer's research over the past 16 years may have been for nothing.

10 (14m 53s):
How will Alzheimer's research recover from a decade and a half long wild goose chase and lost opportunity to find effective treatments

14 (15m 3s):
This week on unexplainable, the field of Alzheimer's research reckons with the revolution that evidence in a key study may have been manipulated. So what does this mean for over a decade's worth of research and what does it mean for the families of Alzheimer's patients follow unexplainable, wherever you listen, new episodes, every Wednesday

0 (15m 30s):
I called you

1 (15m 32s):
It's today explained I'm Noelle king. And I promise you, you cannot watch the woman king with all of the faces and the landscapes and the incredible fight scenes without thinking, what was the kingdom of Dae? Really like Leonard Wacon is an economist. He teaches at Princeton and he served as an advisor on the woman king, because he is originally from Bonine where the kingdom of Dae used to be. He studies Theo, J the woman warriors, who are also sometimes called the Dae Amazons. And he is a descendant of one of those women that is mind blowing Leonard growing up in Bonine, as you did, did you learn about the kingdom of Dae? Did you learn about the women's soldiers?

15 (16m 14s):
Yes. Yes. In fact, three things. So first of all, one of the training centers of Amazon's was actually about one mile from my hometown. Wow. And I realized later on that someone from my extended family called SA was actually a female warrior. And like her son called NA who was, you know, the enforcer because, you know, I was not always well behaved. So he's the one who my mother sent me to him to yell a bit at me and stuff.

15 (16m 54s):
I realized that NA was the eldest son of SAE. So in fact, I grew up in an environment that had an Amazon and there is another town I realized much later on like three miles from where I was born. That also had an Amazon who was known in the whole region as one of the, the leaders of anti-colonial movement, domestic. I mean, like in Benin around 1940s. So yes, I knew that it was there, but it's only recently through the research that I'm doing that actually got names, realized that have neighbors or neighbors, or my grandparents who were actually female warriors.

15 (17m 38s):
And it just made me very, very proud and even more determined to be able to tell their story. The fun part is to dig into details of the history of the kind of D you know, like food, like whatever the king go to battle with the warriors, what the female warriors wear and details that typical historian doesn't get into. And you need that for the movie to be as accurate as possible and to reflect the local history, the local culture as possible,

1 (18m 22s):
The movie begins in 1823. How did this kingdom get to be a kingdom? And who lived there? What was it like?

15 (18m 32s):
It was a group of S from a place called Tado who moved out of a kingdom and decided to settle in various part of the current Benin. And those who came to the plateau where the kingdom was set up, they developed into an extremely sophisticated and very modern state, particularly on the Kings Gazo that was portrayed in the movie. And they fought for their independence and their sovereignty against all the local states. And then in that process with women, you know, the, the Amazons played a major, major role, and they have a very relatively thriving economy.

15 (19m 19s):
Obviously they were involved in the slave trade, but also they were plantations and they have some industry, they have international trade, but what was so distinguish is also the culture, the music, the arts, right? Recently there were some art artifacts stolen by the colonizer that was in Paris for centuries that was brought back. It was highly, highly sophisticated while we are not seeing are actually the fact that there were normal girls growing up in an environment where women were brought up to do anything involved in agricultural activities and cultural activities.

15 (20m 6s):
And they play with boys in a very gender inclusive environment. And that's what allowed many of them to be very assertive, very strong, very independent. And that's what led to the institution itself led the idea of setting up an army for just women, where through many rituals, the, the learn to be fearless and they learn to be extremely brave

16 (20m 37s):
All our lives. They, they tell us stories about the GY that you have magic

17 (20m 45s):
Fighting is not magic. It is skill. You will see if you have any,

15 (20m 53s):
What we are not seeing as well is what they became afterwards. After they led the army. You know, they were entrepreneurs, they were religious leaders. We were community leaders and they were models and cultural icon. That's what might be missing a little bit. We only focus solely on violence and war.

1 (21m 13s):
This kingdom sounds rather remarkable in what it allowed women to become in the 19th century.

15 (21m 20s):
Absolutely. And then for instance, the government of GA were very gender inclusive women were, were not just allowed into Miami, were allowed in every level of government.

1 (21m 40s):
There's an interesting moment in the movie where one of the King's wives tells him we have what we have because of the slave trade. Essentially. This is why the kingdom of Tomate is rich. Is that accurate? Is the slave trade, how Dae grew into a very wealthy kingdom?

15 (21m 60s):
Yes and no. Yes. Because you know, the slave trade for at least a century was a major part of the local economy. But at the same time, particularly in the king GESO, there were aggressive push to diversify the economy by bringing like pan oil, coconuts, banana, other agricultural product that could be sold internationally, particularly to Europe. And besides that, you know, there was a major conflict within the government over the continuation of the slave trade. And on one side, there were clear attempt to, if not to end it altogether was actually to scale it down ly.

15 (22m 47s):
And we also need to stress the fact that by the time of Gazo the process of getting slaves and, and export them has become less centralized, something to stress as well, is that Daou may accounted for 5% of overall slave exports, you know, about 600,000 people out of 13 million. So that's big, but, you know, it shows that D may was not the epicenter of African slave trade, you know, so I'm not trying to diminish the importance of slave economy, but I wanted to put in prospective and be slightly more by stressing the fact that particularly mid 19th century, there was serious internal conflict about ending the slave trade.

4 (23m 47s):
What

1 (23m 47s):
Do you think is the legacy of these women? What do you think we can learn from them?

15 (23m 52s):
Yeah, so, okay. Two things. So I think the first thing we learn is that there are ways to overcome gender gap, and there are two ways. One is belief that there is nothing intrinsically weak about a woman, so they can do anything, including the riskiest and the most challenging job, which is actually the frontline fighter. And this belief is not enough. You need to set things up, although education, policy, job opportunities, and laws to allow them to do exactly that.

15 (24m 39s):
You know, for instance, well, maybe those women coming in did not have all the attributes to be as a fierce warrior as men. But then through the training, we did exactly that this is important. It has a lot of implication. For instance, if you, the gender gap in mathematics, well, you know, set up all female elite math school, you know, and then before, you know, that's, it it's equal, you know, I mean, so I think this is for me a lesson to be. And the second one is that we have to be open minded and hold the view. That great thing may happen outside where we are.

15 (25m 20s):
People tend to think that Europe brought gender equality in Africa, and only to realize that in fact, Europe was way behind some part of Africa on issues of gender equity, that Europe had a lot to learn even today. And we also have lot to learn and today from the past, and I'm very, very happy that the movie came out to show exactly that

1 (25m 52s):
Leonard wonk at Princeton, he's working on a book about the AOJ today's show was produced by AHI, artsy, and fact checked by Tory Dominguez. It was engineered by Paul Robert mosey. I'm Elsa edited the show it's today explained I'm the other woman king.