1 (8s):
The outgoing president made history today by becoming the first ever president of the United States to be impeached twice, let alone in one term. He now owns half of all the impeachments in history in the United States. Donald Trump was impeached by 222 Democrats and 10 Republicans for inciting an insurrection on the very building in which they govern the United States. Capitol one week ago.

2 (34s):
I can't believe it's already been a week when you said that, wow.

1 (40s):
Reeve was out there at the insurrection, covering it for CNN, which didn't make her the most popular person in town.

2 (46s):
It's dusk, everyone's walking home. The terrace has been cleared and is a woman was a bull horn is like telling us how we should be ashamed and stuff. And she does manage to get a bunch of people to circle around us. And we got cleared by our bosses to go home and start editing. And as we're walking down Pennsylvania Avenue with our backs turned, this man threw a glass bottle at us. Oh no. Yeah. It, and it shattered right at my heels. Like I felt the forest and like the pieces hit the back of my jeans.

0 (1m 20s):
Yeah.

1 (1m 21s):
We've looked at this from a bunch of angles this week and last week, but we haven't yet tried to explain who was out there and we're hoping you can help with that today. But first maybe tell me what your expectations were heading into. Washington last Wednesday.

2 (1m 36s):
I wasn't exactly sure what to expect ahead of it. I just called as many Trump supporters as I could to see if they were going or gauge interest. And everyone either said they were going or they want it to go. So I was falling one group that was really into Q and I was following another guy who warned me that it was dangerous. There would be thousands of armed men. He was like, you live in a world of illusions where you think the government and police can protect you, but they can't. And this guy is prone to big talks. I wasn't sure if that was true, but that was an inkling that some people were thinking about storming the Capitol.

2 (2m 21s):
How quickly did you realize that that was going to be the reality on Wednesday? I wasn't there the moment they pushed through the barriers, they started storming. The Capitol about just a few minutes after Trump started speaking and we fight, we fight like hell. And if you don't fight like, hell, you're not going to have a country anymore. So we were still there getting footage of people, reacting to triumph in the audience, near the Washington monument. And then we got word that people were trying to get into the Capitol. So we just like race down Pennsylvania Avenue to get there. However, I did see how once the crowd sees that this is going down, it becomes a mob.

2 (3m 4s):
It stops being just people hanging out and becomes a mob. And this like focus and drive towards getting to this one spot is just unstopped.

3 (3m 13s):
Yeah. I was actually here. Well, this guy started breaking in with a, with a cane. Obviously there's a power struggle. There's a piece of the guys that were like, no, no, we don't want to do that. And then there was that guy, you know, he just said, well, Oh well, I'm breaking it in.

2 (3m 28s):
Yeah. And so that's what I would say is just like regular people abandoning their sense of personal responsibility and ethics to participate in this frenzy.

3 (3m 39s):
What are we supposed to do? Okay. The Supreme court's not helping us. No, one's helping us. Only us can help us only. We can do it.

2 (3m 57s):
One of the first people I encountered was this large man who had been maced and it was telling other men what had happened. So I just went up to him like, Hey, tell me, tell me what's going on. And he described how they'd been at the barricades and there were pushing against him and the police push it back.

3 (4m 13s):
Yeah. And we rushed them. We charged them. We've got all the way to the steps and made a line. So we stood there and we tried to push them back a little bit. And until finally they started getting rough with us. So we kind of pushed them back. So that's what we did. We pushed them back. We tried to get up the steps. They wouldn't let us up. As soon as they started pepper spraying and Mason to everybody.

2 (4m 31s):
So who was like, and you do what you do. If someone raises you, you fight back and then describe pushing into the Capitol. He was very, very angry, very, very heated. Just saying, we have no choice from there. Like, okay, we've got to get closer, closer, closer. So we just started weaving over shrubbery and through the yard, in front of the Capitol until we got to a wall that was near some stairs where people were climbing need to go into the Capitol, I'm trying to get into that.

2 (5m 14s):
You encountered, or whether people are happy to just hangout in the shrubbery, I can assist mob mindset. Once they were close, they all want it to get in. And I'm talking like regular people like soccer, mom looking peoples' soccer, grandma looking for people. Once they've got to that wall, they're like, what's going on? What's going on? They all started pushing, pushing, pushing, trying to get through, you know, if we tried to walk past them, they would get upset. Like we were cutting them in line to get up the stairs. And I have to be like, look, look, we're, we're not trying to get in front of you. We're just going over there. We're getting out of your way. So we're at the Stonewall. My colleagues, Sam and Deb were standing on it filming.

2 (5m 54s):
And this woman was getting in line to like push over and climb over it. And I was asking her some questions. She was friendly enough. And I was like, why are you storing the capital? And then she kind of turned and she got really mad at me and said it was a Media narrative and that they weren't storming the Capitol. They were just making their voices heard. And then she keeps climbing over a wall.

1 (6m 16s):
So you've got your soccer moms and your soccer, grand moms. You've got your Q Anon types. But as we know now, there were people out there who were much more serious people who were there to fight.

2 (6m 28s):
There were definitely people in military gear. I don't know if they were actually in the military, but you see those guys a lot, you know, they've got the cammo and the vests and with all the pockets. And I saw a very small number of people making references to the alt-right or online racism. And there was a sign for a Kekistani, which is a reference to four Chan. There's the camp Auschwitz shirt. I didn't see him in person, but I think those guys were a very small number of the crowd, more militia people. And then more I'd say the majority just hardcore Trump supporters. So on the upper terrace and we climbed around and got up there.

2 (7m 8s):
You know, I talked to this guy, he looked like just a country club, kind of guy, just an older man. And I was like, do you think he was a mainstream of the Republican party? He was like, well, yeah, I've been a Republican for years. I'm just a little bit disappointed in Republicans lately. But I think that's really important to understand is you can't dismiss all of these people as white supremacists is actually worse because white supremacy is, it has a limited appeal. You know, there is so much culture, books, movies, TV shows about beating Nazis. Like most people do not want to be Nazis. And if you ask them, they'd announced racism.

2 (7m 51s):
Maybe they have some bigotries, some biases against people of color, but they don't identify as Nazis or as racist the way the alt-right did. But this is much broader que and on the bad guy is not people of color it's pedophiles. Everyone can get behind that in theory. Right? So like stopped the steel. These people who think that they're Patriots saving America. So it means that there are greater numbers of followers. And therefore, if there are some of them, a tiny percentage who want to do violence, that small percentage is going to represent a much larger number than it would of the Nazis.

1 (8m 35s):
And everyone in the mobs seems to see past the white supremacists, even if they're not white supremacists, like if I strongly objected to, to white supremacy and even ideas more dangerous than that, I wouldn't want to get caught dead in a mob where there were white supremacists. And maybe, you know, you didn't see the, that said camp Auschwitz, but you definitely saw Confederate flags everywhere. Right? It seems like they were either okay, with being aligned with white supremacists or totally ignorant about it or willing to look past all of it for this greater cause of a coup

2 (9m 14s):
No, they very much truly believed that they were doing something good for the country. That there are stopping an immoral predatory elite from perverting, the values of the United States. You know? So again, that, with that first guy I saw him, it was like, what's the point? What's your point? Just as most of America is shocked at how these people are not in our reality that they don't think Corona virus is a threat at all, that they don't accept Joe Biden as the lawfully elected president of the United States. It's the reverse for them. They are shocked and appalled that the rest of us don't understand what they know to be true.

2 (10m 0s):
There was no doubt. They had no doubts, no one, I talked to you how to do it. Do they feel like they won or lost that to you? I think really depends on the group. Some pizza of the cute people I've been following say that Trump still has a plan. I've seen some express, a little doubt. Like, is there really going to be an aeration? And then others will push it back? Like, no, no, no, no. Don't worry. Like there was still a plan among the more militant kind of neo-fascist types. This is a galvanizing moment in that they, this was a huge, this was a tremendous show of force.

2 (10m 44s):
And you know, as people who, how can I put this? It th they just, it, it was a moment that showed their strengths. And so it's something that they're proud of. I don't know if that's going to turn into anything down the road, but again, no one that I've been tracking seem to shamed,

1 (11m 18s):
Then we'll try and figure out how prepared Washington, D C and the rest of us

2 (11m 22s):
For another one of these

1 (11m 49s):
Support from the shelter. It comes from freshly. Freshly wants to know what's for dinner tonight. If you have an answer ready, that is great. I can't tell freshly for you unless you relay it to me. I don't even have contact information from them, but if the question filled you with dread anxiety and emptiness, they want to know that they got you there. Serving up chef made delicious meals that are chock full of nutrients, and you're not going to get what you order for takeout like for and a half of nights a week. So get $40 off your first two orders. When you go to freshly.com/ Explained, you can make eating better your new year's resolution with this special limited time offer over@freshly.com slash Explained for $40 off your first two orders.

1 (12m 36s):
Try freshly now. And for a limited time, again, you're going to get $40 off your first two orders go to freshly.com/ Explained to learn more

4 (12m 55s):
I'm Dan Lamothe I'm the national security reporter usually cover the Pentagon for the Washington post, but lately you've been covering something else. Well, lately it's starting to stretch beyond just the Pentagon.

1 (13m 5s):
Yeah. Yeah. So then we spoke last week about national security in the wake of the insurrection at the Capitol, which is now exactly one week past. And we are one week from president Biden's knock operation, how our D C and the country at large preparing for what could be more writing from these mega mobs.

4 (13m 26s):
I think last week certainly served as a wake-up call. You know, we we've reported at nauseum the, the problems ahead of time, in terms of who knew what, and whether there was sufficient planning and whether or not there was sufficient national garden place. And once you don't have those things in place, sort of the limited options they have to left in that, you know, I think especially in an hour or three of truths in the Capitol now, I think we shift to the other side, which is how do you prepare for the inauguration, certainly, but, but also any date or problem that may arise before, during and after I think the, the concern, you know, remains throughout, I think this weekend is a potential point of concern for some, some officials.

4 (14m 16s):
And I don't think this ends with the inauguration either. I think this is something that's going to be a thing that people need to watch into February, for sure.

1 (14m 23s):
Well, let's talk about all three before, during, and after starting with, before, what might happen between today? Wednesday, January the 13th and inauguration day is Wednesday, January the 20th.

4 (14m 35s):
I think in terms of the threats that, that, that officials are concerned about and talking about is state capitals. I think in, in general, there's been numerous threats reported that, you know, marches, people trying to break into Capitol buildings. All right, the FBI

5 (14m 52s):
Is a pass it along, what it calls credible warnings of the nationwide armed protest and attack scheduled in every major city, across the country in all 50 States, all of the capitals.

4 (15m 5s):
So I think there's a ongoing discussion in, and it continues to evolve in terms of when I'm going to stay. Capitol where there have been concerns. This year, Michigan has seen problems. Washington state has seen problems. Oregon has seen problems. There is a desire to make sure that those cities in those Capitol specifically are protected, that that would take state police a and the governors in each of those States have their own national guard. And they, they serve as at the governor's service to the commanders of those national guard. So they have the ability to activate mobilize that there is a general officer in charge of the national guard, each of those places.

4 (15m 45s):
But the governor is the one that says, Hey, we need to get moving on this. We need to make sure our buildings are protected. So I think you're going to see entirely likely to see activations in coming days. Some of those national guard members are going to be heading to DC. I was speaking yesterday with the Minnesota national guard. They specifically had 130 guardsmen heading into this much larger effort and DC. But I think in places like Michigan, where you've already had violence in the Capitol, they're gonna have to watch for their own backyard too.

1 (16m 16s):
Well, let's talk a bit more about D C and what might happen on an aggravation date and how that might affect what's happening across the 50 States

4 (16m 26s):
In DC, as of Wednesday morning acting police chief Conti has announced that the plan in DC will include

1 (16m 32s):
Somewhere upwards of beyond 20,000 members of the national guard. That will be here in the footprint of the district of Columbia.

4 (16m 41s):
That's a revision upward of the plan. The Pentagon announced on Monday morning, which said that they were authorizing up to 15,000 discussion. Sounds like it could go beyond the 20,000 as well. They are managing a requests that would come up from Capitol police, metropolitan police, other agencies that want to make sure that they are protected, that their buildings are at protected, that the, you know, the entire area, that they are able to act quickly, that they have enough manpower so that nobody is overwhelmed and those requests will go up. And then they're going to have to be balanced against not only the threat in DC, but if you are requesting other States to send their national guard, and those other States also have threats in their own capital, the desire to make sure everybody has what they need, it becomes important.

1 (17m 31s):
It sounds like we're likely to see more national guardsmen and security forces around the Capitol for the inauguration

4 (17m 39s):
Then people, I think that's actually entirely likely based on the flip side of the discussion, which is that people are being told to stay home goals right now

6 (17m 50s):
Are to encourage Americans', to participate virtually and to protect the district of Columbia from a repeat of the violent insurrection experience at the capital and its ground's on January the sixth.

1 (18m 6s):
No, this is not going to be a normal inauguration, both for the sake of COVID, but now you have the security threats. There just won't be the crowd to loud that that we've seen in years past. I think one point that is worth making even on a normal year. Ah, the inauguration is a massive undertaking for security conversations alone. During the Trump inauguration four years ago, there were about 8,000 national guardsmen in the city for that. So we're up to double pushing on triple what, what we saw for years ago. I think the most common job for these guardsmen that are going to be Manning a massive security perimeter around everything that they're trying to keep safe a and at this point, and it looks like it's going to be blocks and blocks in downtown DC enforce another thing that's receiving a lot of scrutiny is that there may have been sympathizers amongst the Capitol police force and other security forces who were there that day on January 6th of the Capitol.

1 (19m 7s):
Is this a concern going forward into what might be more riots, more mobs before inauguration on inauguration after inauguration, that, that people in the national guard, people in our own police forces might have sympathetic views towards these mobs and even might help these moms. Yeah, I think, I think the concern is ongoing and I think it's hard for the government to get its arms around what the sum total of that threat is, or is not on one hand, you need to be aware of it. You need to make sure that you're doing everything that you can to root out any extremist tendencies in your force.

1 (19m 52s):
On the other hand, they now need tens of thousands of security forces in DC immediately. What are you do to make sure that that force that you need is actually functioning? You know, a per paralysis is a concern if you go to far on the other direction. Yeah. I mean, there is something concrete that can be done here. It isn't easy to monitor soccer moms who maybe went a little too far on January 6th, but there were proud boys out there. There was Kew. And on out there, there are these Boogaloo boys out there. Do you think what happened on Wednesday maybe changed the way this country thinks about domestic terrorism, about, about how, you know, white people might also be worth taking seriously when it comes to street violence and mobs and, and destruction, property and assaults

4 (20m 48s):
Against law enforcement officers, I would submit, especially primarily through the lens of my normal job of covering the military, that this was an ongoing discussion, but a discussion that frequently seemed academic to people who were overseeing it. It didn't seem like an immediate threat all the time to all of the people that mattered in the discussion. And I, and I think last week shows that they didn't necessarily have their arms wrapped around what can happen when not enough. Attention is paid ahead of time to a potential threat.

4 (21m 31s):
The inauguration's one thing. And then you kind of go back to the ongoing problem after which is that what was once you have a new administration, once life maybe goes back to some sense of normalcy, you know, where else does this pop up in coming weeks and months? Dan Lamothe who is a defense reporter at the Washington Post I'm Sean Ramez from it's Today Explained

7 (22m 35s):
News and why things just politically exploded in Houston. When it came out that the police have been the one who murdered, who has a couple of stories 40 years ago at Texas community's demand for justice led to a daring experiment for five young Latino officers, with little training and even fewer resources. They were tasked with solving Houston's toughest crimes in rebuilding trust. How would you like to go to homicide? I didn't know what the homicide

4 (22m 59s):
Was. None of us knew what we

7 (23m 2s):
Were up against. They were torn between the neighborhood's that raised them. So one of my friends stopped talking to me after I told them I'd joined the police department and the badges they wore. I had a Mexican flag on my desk and they came over and to be a Lieutenant as one of the Mexican flag over there, my name is Christelle Alonso. And this is the story of the Chicano squad I worked. So many who've done is that I used to have a sand. And if you just throw me a finger, now I'll find you the killer subscribe to Chicanas. Watch from the Vox media podcast network on Spotify or wherever you listen.