1 (2s):
Tony Green, a high school teacher at Bishop Odod in Oakland, was in Washington DC for a celebration of the brand new African American studies AP course last week when he got word that some parts of the course had been changed, some sections revised, some conservatives had taken issue with those sections.

2 (22s):
What this guy in Florida did is he just threw a monkey wrench into the works.

1 (28s):
This guy in Florida is Governor Ron DeSantis. And the college board aggressively denies allegations that bowed to political pressure. We may never know what actually happened, but Mr. Green taught the original pilot course. So what was in it? What's not now? And what does Mr. Green plan to do with what some people have called a watered down curriculum? Well, it's not really in his nature to back down.

2 (52s):
Okay. My grandmother fought off the clan with a shotgun, right?

1 (57s):
Coming up on today, explained it's today explained. I'm Noelle King with Scott Jasick, who's the editor of Inside Higher Ed. Scott, let's talk about what caused this new African-American Studies course to be created. When does this begin?

3 (1m 21s):
So this began a few years ago because black students, on average, do not take as many AP exams and do not score well enough on the AP to earn college credit. But there's long been a desire to get more black students involved with ap. And while AP and African American history is not only for black students, there was an assumption that it would be of particular importance to them.

4 (1m 47s):
Pilot school principal, Carrie Holland, hopes this course will increase access to advanced courses, but ultimately for the students, it's about more than academics. It's about identity. There

5 (1m 59s):
Is no one way to be black. And so this class just really reminds me of

6 (2m 4s):
That more black children, young black children like me, can grow up knowing this information and it's, it'll change the world.

1 (2m 13s):
How was it rolled out?

3 (2m 14s):
Well, the way it's rolled out, you know, AP in any new course has a pilot program. We

7 (2m 20s):
Put out a number of different sources for the first pilot and immediately started talking with students and teachers where the course was living and just asked them, which sources are interesting, which sources are engaging, which sources make your creativity come alive? And started tweaking from there.

3 (2m 35s):
And what the AP program did is they went to 300 professors of African American studies and asked them, what do you think should we should include? What should we not include, et cetera. This results in a lot of debates. And then gradually AP developed the course.

8 (2m 52s):
And what you'll find when you read it, as I hope you will, is you'll find the un flinching encounter with the facts and evidence of African American history and culture that gives young people the chance to think for

3 (3m 2s):
Themselves and the course, you know, covers from Africa to slavery, to the Civil War. Lots of things are in the course and haven't been that controversial. Most of the controversy is over the modern period of African American history and

1 (3m 18s):
What's in the modern period.

3 (3m 20s):
Black Lives Matter, affirmative action. The debate over reparations for slavery, queer theory,

9 (3m 28s):
This course on black history. What are one of, what's one of the lessons about queer theory now who would say that an important part of black history is queer theory? That is somebody pushing an agenda on our kids.

3 (3m 43s):
And so and so then what happens is Governor Ron DeSantis of Florida gives a speech and you know, and announces that AP won't be granted for Florida public schools.

10 (3m 56s):
The Department of Education highlighted specific issues with proposed sections on black queer studies, reparations, and the Black Lives Matter movement, as well as activism saying it amounts to indoctrination, not education.

3 (4m 7s):
This is a huge deal for the AP program because Florida's a large state and it matters to the college board to reach Florida.

1 (4m 15s):
What was Governor DeSantis arguing?

3 (4m 17s):
Well, he hasn't been that explicit about it. He said the course had nothing of value. His education department said there was nothing to learn there, that it was woke education.

9 (4m 31s):
They're advocating things like abolishing prisons now. Now that's a, that's a radical political position. You're free to take that in your own life. I don't think very many people would think that that would actually work. How is that being taught as fact to

3 (4m 45s):
Be able, but I, I think obviously Ron DeSantis is getting ready for a possible run for president. And many people think that that is the real motivation here.

11 (4m 55s):
What we're dealing with is this fear of this historic graphical displacement that's driving the terror and panic, and it's being used by people like DeSantis to motivate fears and grievance and for his own political and selfish ends.

1 (5m 8s):
Okay, so Ron DeSantis says, this course has no place in the state of Florida. And the college board responds by doing what?

3 (5m 15s):
That's sort of unclear. I mean, they removed all of those sections from the course, but denied that it had anything to do with Ron DeSantis. They said that the college board has to scrutinize what it's gonna do and has to eliminate some things.

8 (5m 31s):
We at the college board don't really look to the statements of politicians, but we do look to the record of history. So when we revise the course, there are only two things we went to. We went to it Brandy described, which is feedback from teachers and students, as well as 300 professors who have been involved in building the course. And we went back to principals that have guided AP for a long time and served us well.

3 (5m 51s):
But most educators assume that there was a connection that Ron DeSantis did play a role in this. It's more likely that the college board said, okay, well what are the things that are causing controversy? Let's get some of them out.

12 (6m 6s):
The college board released the official curriculum yesterday. The Black Lives Matter movement and reparations are now listed as optional project topics. And according to the New York Times, several trailblazing black authors were removed, including Bell Hooks who wrote about race and feminism.

3 (6m 24s):
And many people view this as creating an AP light in African-American studies because in the African-American community today, affirmative action does matter. Black lives matter matters. Many people are shocked at some of the things that have been taken away.

13 (6m 42s):
It is in, in incomprehensible that to see that this is what this ban or this block to be more specific, that DeSantis has put forward. If you think about the study of black Americans, that is what he wants to block. And, and, and again, these types of actions aren't new. They're not new from, from what we're seeing, especially from Florida. Sadly Florida,

1 (7m 6s):
The college board is saying, we did not bow to political pressure. A lot of informed people are saying, nah, it looks like they did. If the college board did bow to political pressure, what's the problem with that?

3 (7m 19s):
Well, the problem with that is the college board's job is to create educational materials on a range of subjects. The college board should not be bowing to political pressure. That's not what it does. That's not what it should do.

12 (7m 35s):
Always good to have you in the studio Tallahassee codes. So what concerns you most about the revisions that you're hearing? Well,

14 (7m 42s):
Really what concerns me is the climate around the revisions. I'm certainly not a person with qualifications to design a curriculum for ap, even ap, for African-American Studies. I think the board should be free to do their work and do their pilot programs and go through the process and not be influenced, not just by my thoughts, but by the thoughts of governors legislatures who are passing laws who apparently just want a curriculum that makes people feel comfortable and feel good about themselves.

1 (8m 10s):
Let's say that I'm a student who will take this AP course in the coming year. What will I be learning about?

3 (8m 15s):
You will probably be learning a lot. As I said, the the, this course starts in Africa, talks about how the slaves were caught and brought to America. Talks about the conditions of slavery, talks about the Civil War, talks about the reconstruction period, talks about the Jim Crow period, all those things. Students will still learn. What they'll learn less about is in the modern era of some of those hot topics, it is a huge advance if those students are learning black history, black culture, black literature, and they may well be learning more than they've learned in the past, but that doesn't in any way take away the concerns about what they're not learning.

3 (9m 6s):
You know, in education, people always talk about the curriculum, what's in the curriculum, but you also need to focus on what's not in the curriculum. If you only are reading male authors and not reading any female authors, that's a bad thing. And many students historically have done that. And this is an attempt to broaden the curriculum to broaden what students will understand. And some people think it's very disappointing that some of the modern hot issues are left out.

1 (9m 47s):
Coming up. This AP course was piloted in schools throughout the United States, and we're gonna talk to a teacher who taught it about the original course and about the changes. And we're gonna ask whether he's disappointed.

15 (10m 10s):
A conversation with novelist Salman Rusty, only on the New Yorker Radio Hour, his first interview. Since a brutal attempt on his

16 (10m 17s):
Life, I've tried very hard not to adopt the role of a victim. Somebody stuck a knife in me before me.

15 (10m 23s):
You

16 (10m 24s):
Don't. Which I do sometimes think

15 (10m 27s):
It hurts.

16 (10m 28s):
It hurts.

15 (10m 29s):
Salman Rushdi on the New Yorker Radio Hour from W N Y C studios. Listen, wherever you get your podcast.

1 (10m 40s):
Here's a question for you. How have apps like Tinder Hinge and Bumble affected our search for love, maybe even your search for love? In the new season of the show, land of the Giants called dating games, the Verge and the Cut are teaming up to uncover the secrets of the dating app industry and show what happens when your love life becomes their business. And indeed it does. In every episode, they're talking to experts and industry leaders about how tech has affected our relationships. You'll learn the economics of the dating industry. You'll hear surprising stories of real people trying to find love on an app. Find out what it means when your romantic life is part of company's bottom line. You can follow land of the Giants wherever you listen. New episodes are out every Wednesday.

1 (11m 29s):
It's today explained. I'm Noelle King, can you tell me who you are?

2 (11m 33s):
Well, my full name is Anthony Martin, depos Green. But my mama used to just call me Tony until I got in trouble and she would use my

3 (11m 42s):
Full

1 (11m 42s):
Name. She was, she was everyone's mom. And what do you do for

2 (11m 46s):
A living? So I'm a teacher and a coach in Oakland, and I have been a teacher and a coach for the last 42 years. I've taught economics and foreign policy. I've taught Rise of Black nationalism, Caribbean Coffee cane and culture, African-American studies. And currently I'm teaching advanced placement African-American studies.

1 (12m 6s):
Mr. Green, Tony is one of 60 teachers in the United States who taught the pilot version of the AP African-American Studies course. I asked him why teaching an AP course on African-American studies is important to him.

2 (12m 17s):
When I first started my formal education, I went to a school in a housing project in Vallejo called Flaws in Elementary School. And it was in the Floyd Terrace Housing Project at that point. History was taught to us by very young teenage Black Panthers. It was at, at the start of their Black Panther breakfast program in about 1968, I would say. And growing up, the housing project at my school was in half of it burned down the 1968 rebellions that happened after Martin Luther King's assassination. So my parents took me out of that school and they moved me across town to an all white school.

2 (13m 1s):
And at that point when they started to refer to history, I no longer heard anything about what black folks had done historically. And so my perspective on, you know, the truth and what I was being told, you know, really changed. And I started to learn history from a Western perspective and it did not jive with what I had learned previously. And so my total focus in terms of education from that point forward was learning more about African-American history and studies. And when this opportunity veiled itself this past summer to teach a advanced placement African-American studies, I jumped at it.

2 (13m 46s):
And the reason why I think advanced placement African-American studies is so important is because it's a national recognition of real history.

1 (13m 55s):
Tell me, what does pilot mean in this context for you and for your students?

2 (14m 1s):
It means that the students do not get advanced placement credit for college. They do not get college credit at this point until it's fully accepted by the college board. I currently have 65 students. So the students were very interested in the course and it's become very popular. I see the students as revolutionaries, especially if you look at the content that they are pushing out there, it's at a very high level.

1 (14m 29s):
Even though your students weren't getting the college credit, they wanted to take this class.

2 (14m 34s):
Exactly. 100% correct.

1 (14m 37s):
Let me ask you what the students liked about it. When you would sit with a young person and they would tell you, I I really enjoy this, what would they say? Specifically?

2 (14m 47s):
I would say the information that's contained that they had no concept of. They had no concept of, I'll give you an example. Abu Bakari ii, the brother of the richest man in history, man, Musa, you know, who was able to actually navigate the seas before the supposed father of the age of discovery. Christopher Columbus in 1492, Abu Bakari did it in the 13 hundreds. They had no idea that you had the number of Islamic universities connected to Africa that preceded universities in Europe.

2 (15m 31s):
Okay? The oldest continuous university, you know, the University of Korean and Morocco still open today. So they did not have any idea that Africans had access to this extensive knowledge that would actually put them at the forefront of knowledge, you know, scientific and otherwise at the forefront of mankind's knowledge base.

1 (15m 59s):
Let me ask you something, Mr. Green parts of this course really set conservative Americans on edge. It seemed like there were lessons that were more in the present day that had conservatives really concerned. What were those parts?

2 (16m 12s):
Well, I would say one of the main issues that conservatives have is the idea of the Black Lives Matter movement. Historically, there's been a major concern since reconstructionist ended about the intimidation of black people brought on directly or indirectly by the United States government. And it perpetuates itself currently in the actions that the police have in relationship largely to black males or sometimes in black females.

2 (16m 52s):
There's a number of cases that have caused black activists to respond by creating this movement called the Black Lives Matter movement. Why that is threatening to conservatives. I would link basically to racism, the belief that black people are not fully human right? Which is something that extends throughout the colonial period. The, the contemporary historical period. Black people react with extreme anger and I wouldn't say just black people, if you look at the Black Lives Matter movement, which was an international movement.

2 (17m 34s):
And so when they respond to anger, it's natural racists. Don't think that it's natural because they don't believe that black people are fully human. They think that there's something wrong with us. But if you look at history, and this is the beauty of advanced placement, African American history, it tells exactly who we are as humans.

1 (17m 57s):
So you are teaching this course, your students are really enjoying it, you like it as well. When did you start hearing that there might be pushback about the content and what were you hearing

2 (18m 10s):
During the summer? When we first got together at Howard University, you know, there was a discussion amongst, you know, quite a few teachers, you know, over, you know, social discussion that in some states there might be pushback because of the content and because of the history of, of certain states. You know, in terms of the most recent thing in, in Florida a week to two weeks ago, sort of a discussion about, you know, what the guy down there would be talking about and how he would be, you know, attempting to use it to sort of leverage his own political ambitions, which I think e exactly what it's doing.

2 (18m 50s):
If he's trying to leverage this idea. My family is from Florida, my mama's side is all from Florida. Okay. My grandmother fought off the clan with a shotgun, right? That's Florida. If you look at black history in the Americas, the first black settlement in the United States, Fort Mosse or Fort Negro in Florida, it's now St. Augustine. That was built by black hands. We learned that in advanced placement, African American studies, there's always been pushback from white racists in Florida. So that was sort of expected.

2 (19m 30s):
Some of the teachers that were teaching it down there expected it as well. But you know, politically now all of a sudden we're starting to talk about this guy instead of talking about advanced placement African American studies. Right? And he's consuming a lot of the oxygen. I'm here in DC you know, for this celebration of this course, but the oxygen was actually sucked out, you know, over the last week, you know, for this guy down in Florida and it's doing exactly what he wanted it to do. It's caused this controversy.

1 (20m 7s):
You said you're in DC because of the course, what's been going on?

2 (20m 11s):
The college board had a huge celebration. Okay. At the Museum of African American Studies and brought the original 60 teachers back in town for this celebration. But we were forced to, you know, to address that issue. And it's really unfortunate, but what I think it's is going to actually happen is it's going to make the course much more popular

1 (20m 36s):
If we're talking about teenagers. Yeah. The fact that the fact that Right. The the establishment doesn't like it. Sure. I I hear you on that. How did you get, get word that this course had been revised? I mean did the, you all are in town to celebrate and then does the college board say, Ooh, we decided to switch this up on you.

2 (20m 56s):
There's been a constant revision over a number of months, so this is really nothing that new. Right. We have access to all those materials and everybody is still gonna be teaching from those materials and bringing in other materials as well. You know, the, the 20% of the class is based on this semester ending project that the students are doing. A lot of them I'm sure are going to do their projects on these materials that supposedly were pulled out in reaction to this guy in Florida. Okay. Which I don't necessarily think is the case.

1 (21m 34s):
This is a matter of great debate. The college board says it is not bowing to political pressure. The college board is saying, we took into account the thoughts of academics and they told us the course needed to be different. Why do you think this happened?

2 (21m 47s):
If you look at where we started in August, we got, I think we got two units of four units, right? And things were being added and they were being moved and they were being positioned and they were being deleted since we were together in August, right? Then this semester we got parts of another unit, right? We did not get a complete package. We've been getting this material unit by unit since it's a pilot and we've been looking at the material and so since it's a pilot, it's constantly being revived. But I think what this guy in Florida did is he just threw a monkey wrench into the works.

2 (22m 34s):
Didn't read the entire document. He said that the material that we're covering, essentially he said it was unimportant, right? You know, he's doing it to put his name out there, which it is done perfectly. But these revisions have been taking place constantly cuz it's a pilot, right? So we did not get any final document till February 1st.

1 (22m 59s):
Are you disappointed by any of the revisions?

2 (23m 2s):
Am I disappointed? Reason why I'm not disappointed is because we have academic freedom and we have access to all the materials. So I don't know why I would be disappointed. I'm disappointed that the air was taken out of the sales of the launching of this great course and some of the oxygen is consumed by this guy. That's what I'm disappointed with. I'm not disappointed with, you know, anything Cause I've got the, like I said, I've got all the documents I can read every single one of them to you right now.

1 (23m 35s):
What I think I hear you saying is you think this sort of outcry over the revision is a bit of a distraction from the fact that next year you will be teaching advanced placement African American studies.

2 (23m 48s):
That is 100% correct. In the 60 schools, which we started with are gonna be, I think 300 next year. That should be the story.

1 (24m 6s):
Anthony Martin, depos Green. Mr. Green teaches and coaches whatever the kids need at Bishop Oou High School in Oakland. His recommended reads include Invisible Man and The Wealth of Nations.

0 (24m 22s):
Today's

1 (24m 23s):
Show is produced by S Petros and Heidi Modi. It was edited by Matthew Collette, in fact, checked by Laura Bullard and it was engineered by Patrick Boyd. I'm Noel King, is today explained.