1 (0s):
Ukraine Ukraine a slave slave will all Senators now stand and remain standing and raise their right hand. Do you solemnly swear that in all things a pertaining to the trial of the impeachment of Donald John Trump president of the United States now pending, you will do impartial Justice according to the Constitution and laws. So help you God the clerk will call the names in

2 (33s):
group and to Prokop politics Vox the president got impeached in late December. It is now late January and his trial finally begins today in Earnest. What happened?

1 (43s):
In the

2 (43s):
interim, so we had a bit of a standoff the speaker Nancy Pelosi after the has passed the impeachment articles. She held them up and did not send them to the Senate right away. I was not prepared to put the

1 (59s):
managers and that bill yet because we don't know the arena that we are in frankly. I don't care what the

2 (1m 6s):
Republicans say in the meantime former National Security adviser John Bolton announced that he would be willing to NG to testify in the Senate trial if he was subpoenaed which was kind of surprising then the government accountability office announced that the White House had violated federal law by withholding the hundreds of millions of dollars in money for Ukraine because Congress had passed it into law and Trump had no legal authority to hold it up faithful execution of the law does not permit the president to substitute his own policy. For those that Congress has enacted into law that's notable, of course because Republicans their defense has been this is just a policy disagreement and that's in the president's purview.

2 (1m 51s):
And then this guy named Lev Parnassus a close associate of Rudy giuliani's and his fixer in the Ukraine Caper essentially started to talk a lot and he handed over a trove of documents to the impeachment investigators in the house and he did big TV interviews with Rachel Maddow and and Cooper I went from being a top

1 (2m 14s):
donor from being an older events where we would just socialize to becoming a close friend of Rudy giuliani's to eventually becoming his Ally and his asset on the ground and

2 (2m 25s):
Ukraine. Let's talk about a few of these bigger moments. What exactly was speaker Pelosi's plan and how did it work out? So once the house had passed the impeachment articles meaning that Trump was impeached Pelosi had the idea that the leverage in the situation now shifted. She thought that what Trump wanted now was a speedy Senate trial and acquittal and she thought that if she could hold up. This from happening. She would gain potentially greater negotiating leverage to help determine the rules for the trial and whether Witnesses could be called or at least would have a high ground in a public opinion standoff or that sort of thing or some said would buy more time for new witnesses to come forward or so on so she announced that she wasn't going to send the articles of impeachment to the Senate and Trump was indeed very angry.

2 (3m 27s):
About this he sent a lot of angry tweets about this crazy Nancy Pelosi should spend more time in her decaying City and less time on the impeachment hoax but what happened? Was that Mitch McConnell the Senate Majority Leader didn't budge. He would not negotiate with Democrats over the witness issue and he locked down the votes of enough Republican senators in his conference to be able to do what he needed to do. Is to pass a plan for the first phase of the Senate trial and how it will work that will happen today. So policy lost is gamble did not pay off their will not be Witnesses in the Senate trial that's not actually so clear.

2 (4m 11s):
So Pelosi did not succeed in winning pre-emptive concessions from McConnell into how the trial will be set up, but the witness issue remains conspicuously unresolved Democrats demand was to agree to call for Witnesses up. Front including John Bolton, but McConnell's position was a bit more subtle. He said that he does not want the Senate to make a decision on Witnesses one way or the other until after the trial begins until after there are opening arguments and a period of questioning. His stance is that this is how it was done for Bill Clinton's impeachment trial in 1999.

2 (4m 53s):
So it makes sense to do it now Democrats have cried foul because Then pretty much every witness of relevance to the Monica Lewinsky / Ken Starr investigation had already been questioned and in the Trump impeachment inquiry there were several witnesses who refuse to testify or who the Trump Administration ordered not to testify. So Democrats say it's a different situation right now. The perfect place for them to testify is in the Senate so they should do it and the holdup right now. Is that some of the more Pendant minded or moderate Senate Republicans are not yet ready to agree to no Witnesses.

2 (5m 34s):
So McConnell is hoping that once the trial kicks off we go through a few days of this everyone kind of gets bored and tired of this and then they agreed to just throw in the towel cut things off and go to a verdict. Let's talk about the president's defense for a moment here. He sort of finalized his legal team last week who's on it. Any familiar names? Oh, yeah. So there is in addition to White House counsel Patsy bologna who sent the infamous letter saying there would be no cooperation with the impeachment inquiry to Congress. There's also Trump's personal lawyer Jay Sekulow who's been representing him since the molar investigation and a few more staffers in the White House counsel's office, but the big names were the outside picks and it's unclear what capacity exactly they'll be in.

2 (6m 26s):
How much of a role they'll have on Trump's team, but they are on Trump's team and they include Ken Starr who famously was the independent counsel whose investigation led to Bill Clinton's impeachment. He will now be arguing that Donald Trump should not be removed from office President Trump has not committed any

1 (6m 47s):
crimes whatsoever. There's has been an impeachment in search

2 (6m 51s):
of a label. How did Monica Lewinsky react to that selection? She tweeted this is definitely an are you fucking kidding me kind of day who else is on team Trump Robert Ray who succeeded star in the independent counsel role and Alan dershowitz who has been defending Trump a lot on TV. The

1 (7m 13s):
critical point is that obstruction of Congress and abuse of power are clearly not within what the framers intended and I will lay out that argument quite clearly with sources and I'm Were my other members of the of the Trump team will do the

2 (7m 30s):
same, you know, he's a Harvard law professor defended OJ Simpson. He defended Jeffrey Epstein and his name has come up in the Epstein Scandal. So I think Trump wanted a really big name celebrity lawyer on his team and that's why I picked her shorts. So on the other side of this we have the impeachment managers whom Nancy Pelosi picked last week. Who did she end up picking? So she picked seven members of the House of Representatives. The leader of the team is Adam Schiff chaired the house intelligence committee. Jerry Nadler chair of has Judiciary chair Soul often shares Olaf and chair of the health committee on house administration chair Hakeem Jeffries of New York.

2 (8m 14s):
Congresswoman doubt Danny. That means a Florida congresswoman. Sylvia Garcia of Texas Congressman Jason Crow of Colorado. As a member of the House armed services committee, and it's a set of members. Two are pretty close to leadership who are a little more restrained in their style not liberal partisan bomb throwers necessarily. I'm very proud and honored that these seven members distinguished members have accepted this serious responsibility before we get to love parnas and all the things he spilled on national TV last week. I wonder you know, this doesn't happen very often you made some parallels to the Clinton impeachment trial.

2 (8m 55s):
Is there anything else? Hear that sort of exceptional extraordinary about the way this will proceed in the next few days and weeks. So McConnell's plan as I mentioned is to try and get this thing over with as quickly as possible initially. He proposed that each side would get 24 hours split over just two days which would imply to 12 hour days and there was a lot of outrage and push back. So today he announced that there would be a last-minute change. Inch and the 24 hours of floor time for each side would be split over a maximum of three days. Still McConnell is trying it seems to move this thing along as quickly as you can to try and get Trump acquitted by the time of his State of the Union Address, which is two weeks from today.

1 (9m 54s):
more with Andrew in a

2 (9m 55s):
minute Hey everyone, so I know you know all about Vox podcast because I talk about him all the time you listen to one right now. I know you know about boxes Netflix show explain but Vox is also just getting into the regular like narrative TV game right now. You can find a show called Little America on Apple TV plus only in America Dia odd tax after you see the ticket

1 (10m 23s):
Place only in America can such a perfect game exist baseboard hamburgers. These Burgers bacon chili cheeseburger everything on top of everything only in America. Well America comes from the people who brought you the big

2 (10m 43s):
sick and master of none. It tells 8 extraordinary true

1 (10m 49s):
stories of

2 (10m 50s):
immigrants coming to America people from Syria. Uganda. Mexico

1 (10m 54s):
Nigeria. These

2 (10m 56s):
stories are funny romantic their heartfelt and inspiring and who couldn't use a little bit of that right now Little America is live. Now, you can find it on the Apple TV app or go straight to T V Dot a

1 (11m 9s):
Dot-com the show is called Little America

2 (11m 14s):
8 episodes check them out now. Hey, it is Ezra Klein. And I want to tell you about an exciting episode because reclined show you can listen to now and episode literally years in the making it is a special excerpt of my new book. Why were polarized which is coming out on Tuesday, January 28th, the book explores the structural and psychological Dimensions behind the way American politics is changed and polarized what it has done to our institutions, but importantly what it is doing to us. So I hope you enjoy it and you can listen to it by subscribing to the Ezra Klein show right now for free in your favorite podcast app it to hear a special excerpt from the look Andrew broke up.

2 (11m 60s):
Let's talk about Lev parnas. He's been on TV a bunch lately four and a half million Americans tuned in to watch love parnas go face-to-face with Rachel Maddow just part of a media blitz to get the story out remind the folks at home who he is partes was born in the former Soviet Union immigrated to the u.s. At a pretty young age and has been bouncing around through various grifts and scams over the past few decades until He somehow came into a lot of money and started donating it to Republicans in the last few years and Trump Super Pac and eventually paid $500,000 to Rudy Giuliani to get into his inner circle and then partisan Giuliani became essentially joined at the hip and harness had another guy who's very close to Igor Froman who he always went around with Giuliani with and and part.

2 (12m 59s):
Has enough room in essentially opened doors for Giuliani to top Ukrainian officials and this involved these ukrainians making accusations about Joe and Hunter Biden and supposed Ukrainian interference in the 2016 election to hurt Donald Trump and other matters and essentially these accusations. They've been peddling they generally aren't viewed as very credible but They were what Trump wanted to hear and they kicked off this whole Scandal basically was part is quiet during the house impeachment hearings punished was still on the team as the impeachment inquiry kicked off on Trump's team

1 (13m 44s):
idolize them. I mean, I thought he was the Savior

2 (13m 48s):
but then things took a turn for him.

1 (13m 55s):
Pardon us and crewmen were arrested around 6 p.m. Last night at Dulles Airport as they were about to board an international flight with one way tickets.

2 (14m 7s):
And it turned out that the US attorney's office for the southern district of New York had been investigating their activities for some

1 (14m 14s):
time as alleged in the indictment that defendants broke the law to gain political influence while avoiding disclosure of who is actually making the donations and where the money was coming from.

2 (14m 27s):
So they were suddenly facing legal trouble and harness changed his posture in behavior that we we'll remember as familiar from what Michael Cohen did during the Mueller investigation Partners started to claim publicly through his lawyer that he had a lot of information that has Democrats might want to know and that the American public might want to know he said he had documents. He said he had very interesting story to tell it seemed that he was interested theoretically in getting immunity for His testimony from either the house impeachment investigators or in the Senate trial or he may have been interested in trying to strike a cooperation deal with the US attorney's office of the southern district of New York, though.

2 (15m 20s):
Neither of those possibilities seem to have worked out for and so far so he

1 (15m 25s):
escalated. What do you think is the main in accuracy or the main lie, that's being told that you feel like you can correct that the president didn't know what was going on. President Trump know exactly what was going on. He was aware of all my movements. He I wouldn't do anything without the consent the Rudy Giuliani or the president. I was on the ground doing their work

2 (15m 49s):
and he decided to turn over this Trove of his text messages that are relevant to the Trump Ukraine Scandal to the Hass impeachment investigators. So this gave us a sense really of how - Giuliani and other key figures at the heart of this talked to each other and viewed what they were trying to do

1 (16m 14s):
when you say that the president knew about your movements and do what you were doing. Are you saying specifically I want to sort of drill down on that that the president was aware that you and mr. Giuliani were working on this effort and Ukraine to basically try to hurt Joe Biden's political career. He was he was about that. Yeah. Well, it was all about Joe Biden Hunter Biden. And it was never about corruption. There was never a strictly about the Barista Mama which included Hunter Biden and Jill Biden

2 (16m 44s):
and I think probably the top take away in all of this that changes our understanding of the Scandal is that in addition to what we had previously understood as the two Infamous quid pro quos the White House meeting in exchange for buying and dirt and the letting the Terry Aid go through in exchange for Biden dirt. There was a third one before either of them and it involved the firing of the u.s. Ambassador to Ukraine Marie yovanovich.

1 (17m 17s):
He even had a breakdown and screamed fire hurt. So Madeline has assisted went to secretary before he fired and she's she said, mr. President. I can't do that. He was directing the state department to remove her in the state department was refusing,

2 (17m 31s):
correct. You'll remember that she testified in the inquiry.

1 (17m 36s):
Why I do not understand mr. Giuliani's motives for attacking me nor. Can I offer an opinion on whether he believed the allegations he spread about me.

2 (17m 44s):
So I think what is new in here is that the prosecutor general of Ukraine? Yuriy lutsenko was directly tying his demand for the firing of jovanovic with his offer to provide information on something. He kept referring to as be and other times as Burr yzma of the company that Hunter Biden sat on the board of and loot Cinco was worried about you voinovich because she had been criticizing him for corruption and he very much wanted her God and we should add that eventually would Sanko disavowed all this and said that he didn't actually see any indication that Hunter Biden broke the law in any way as the White House responded to all this stuff coming out Trump has denied in the past that he knew harness.

2 (18m 36s):
And Giuliani has now tried to disavow him as well saying he's lying. He's in a bad situation. He's just making stuff up and a lot of Republicans have been saying they don't know who live para NASA's but what tends to happen after that is that harnesses attorney Joseph Bondi tweets photos of them with Lev parnas of which there are an astonishing number Partners appears to have been very good at getting in. Photographed with quite a grin with all sorts of top Republican figures from Senators like Mike Braun of Indiana who will be, you know, a juror in this trial to Trump to Donald Trump.

2 (19m 20s):
Jr. Ivanka Trump Jared Kushner Kevin McCarthy, Jeff sessions, John Kelly Kelly and Conway. How can you look at what left porn is says and what the documents show and what the president asked. In the summary, there are too many to fully list here. But basically if you are a top Republican, we have Partners probably has a picture of him grinning right next to you. I do not know love parties. Well, you're tempting fate there. It seems like he's really excited to talk. Is he gonna try and talk at the Senate trial? I guess that's up to Mitch McConnell.

2 (20m 2s):
It's up to the senate in this question of whether to call witnesses and He certainly has said enough things that it would seem that people would want to hear from him under oath. But even Democrats have been a little weary about hitching their wagon to Lev. Partis part us is someone whose evidence whose testimony should be questioned challenge like any other witness, but he should be a witness. He should have his documents presented to the Senate, you know, there will certainly be some discussion. In about whether he should be subpoenaed for Senate testimony and we'll just have to see what happens Andrew the sense we had back in December the last time we spoke about this on the show with you was that the president has been impeached the Republicans will acquit no matter what in the intervening weeks has that sense changed for you at all that big picture hasn't changed but we have gotten a few reminders that there could be a few more twists and turns before this whole thing is over.

2 (21m 8s):
Nothing has happened to sufficiently Shake The Rock Solid Republican support of Donald Trump just yet. But you know with Bolton with left poorness, we've gotten indications that there is still more that we don't know about what happened here and those facts could come out and it could make it even uglier for the Senate Republicans who already have their minds made up. To acquit Trump to actually cast that vote. So now the question is whether Mitch McConnell can cut this thing off and protect Trump before it gets too out of hand or whether a few Republican Senators will revolt and want to hear more about this will want to bring in those Witnesses even though what they had to say could be very uncomfortable for the president.

2 (22m 10s):
Andrew Prokop will be covering the Senate impeachment trial of presidents Donald John Trump for Vox. You can follow along at vox.com or on Twitter. He is at aw Prokop. That's cop with a K. I'm Sean Rama's firm Rama's firm with a W. This is Ukraine

1 (22m 28s):
explained.