0 (1s):
Adderall shortage update. I just had to leave work because I was so overstimulated, couldn't tune out anything. I couldn't pay attention to anything. My anxiety is destroying me right now.

1 (14s):
Last October, the FDA sent out a press release titled FDA Announces Shortage of Adderall in which the FDA announced a shortage of Adderall, a medication that tens of millions of Americans use mainly to treat A D H D. This led to some worry, some panic.

0 (31s):
It's a fucking mess. So if anybody has any tips, cuz this is fucking insane,

1 (37s):
Some hacks,

2 (38s):
It's not a good hack, but it's a hack. If you have to get shit done, nicotine

1 (45s):
Gum don't do that. Many people of course wondered why there was a shortage of a medication that so many people need. Why don't the companies just make more of it and et cetera. We have some answers ahead on today. Explained

4 (1m 0s):
Some succession. Fans got really angry after a big plot development in season four, episode three because articles about the episode spoiled it before they could watch. But what if that's the wrong way to look at it?

5 (1m 13s):
Think about the word spoil itself, Pam. Are you actually now ingesting something that will harm you? Probably not.

4 (1m 23s):
Why? You probably care way too much about spoilers. This week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast,

1 (1m 41s):
It's today explained, I'm Noel King. What does the Adderall shortage look like if you're the one who needs the medication? My colleague s Petros posted a story on Instagram asking for people who knew they knew and it turned out that her friend AJ was one of them.

6 (1m 56s):
My name is AJ Mue and I am a historian.

1 (1m 59s):
AJ is 34 years old, she lives in Seattle and last fall she was diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and her therapist prescribed

6 (2m 10s):
Adderall. Adderall was a lifesaver. I will definitely say that one of the most difficult things that I was dealing with was having these intrusive thoughts and like a around imposter syndrome or like, can I really do this? Or like, am I being a good child? Am I doing what I'm supposed to be doing? Like you know, I'm in my thirties, is this where I'm supposed to be? And then I start to spiral to the point that then I just don't do anything and then it's like a self-fulfilling prophecy. And so before Adderall, all of those things could happen for days on end. And because I have high functioning depression and high function anxiety, I was very good at masking and so nobody really knew, including my best friends because I felt embarrassed about talking about it because I seemed like the friend who had it together.

6 (2m 51s):
Then I got on Adderall and it's like I could clearly see what my path is. Hmm. I'd wake up, brush my teeth, wash my face, take a shower and be like, oh these are the tasks that I need to do today. And I'd literally just accomplish the tasks and it like freaked me out like for a second and I was like, holy crap, like this is this, is this how the other half lives? Like you just make a list and then you just like do the list and like almost in order like I do the list. It wasn't like, oh I'll just like save this for Thursday and then like Thursday comes at night just like don't do it because I'm onto something else. And so like understanding and also having real experience about what the Adderall was able to assist me and accomplishing not having access to it almost feels worse than like before I even knew what it felt like to have it.

1 (3m 43s):
At what point did you realize there was an Adderall shortage? Like how did this hit you?

6 (3m 50s):
About December is when I started noticing it being a little difficult to find and to the point that I was talking to some of my friends and they were telling me to go to like different parts of the city to say, oh, like there's less young people in this area so maybe it might be a little easier for you to like receive it or to find it. And then it started becoming like me trying to stretch my my pills, right? So instead of taking 'em every day, like taking up every other day, but then that wasn't working because then it wasn't as effective as I needed it to be, then it's like, well do I save 'em for like closer to a time when I have a big project coming up so that at least I can try and concentrate on that project? And then I went to Kenya and I couldn't bring it with me because we were flying through Dubai and so it was considered a controlled substance.

6 (4m 34s):
So then for a month I just didn't have it, which was bad news bears for me. Then I got back and my therapist and I worked really hard to try and find Adderall just like literally anywhere. At one point I drove almost an hour to a pharmacy that said that they had it and then by the time I got there they didn't have it. And that adds to the anxiety that I'm already feeling. And so it just makes, it's almost like it adds to the spiraling that I was already doing and like intensifies it because I know what I'm missing out on and I have projects to do that I wanna work on, you know, things that I wanna try and figure out what to do. But like I get into this paralysis of like I can't do it because I know I could do it better or more efficiently when I have medication rather than just like trying to do it.

1 (5m 20s):
Okay, so how does a drug that a lot of people need and a lot of people will pay for and a lot of people are prescribed by licensed medical professionals just run out Senior health correspondent Dylan Scott has been writing about this@vox.com and Dylan tells us Adderall isn't the only drug that we're seeing. Shortages of antibiotics and cancer drugs have also seen shortages mostly because of pandemic related supply chain messiness.

7 (5m 47s):
But I think what's interesting about the Adderall shortage is that, you know, usually drugs go on shortage because of a manufacturing problem. You know, there's some kind of glitch at the factory or there's an ingredient that's in short supply and like that's the reason that not enough of this drug is being produced. And with Adderall that's certainly part of the story, but there's another major factor which has been a massive increase in demand for Adderall over the past decade or so. And that is a reflection of the way that medical science has evolved in its understanding of adhd. You know, people I think usually think of that as like, you know, little kids who are really hyper

8 (6m 31s):
Jitteriness. The constant motion is what neurologist called hyperkinetic behavior

7 (6m 40s):
Can't concentrate on anything and are running mad all over the house or over all over school

8 (6m 45s):
For these children just sitting still is an ordeal. All right,

7 (6m 50s):
David, from a medical perspective, ADHD is basically the result of somebody not having enough dopamine, which is a really important neurotransmitter in your brain if, if you have enough of it. That's what helps to allow you to, you know, concentrate on something or keep yourself under control and control those impulses that you might have. But somebody with a D H D doesn't have enough of it and that's, you know, what makes it difficult for them to concentrate or to control their impulses.

9 (7m 16s):
It turns out that if dopamine levels are too low, in particular circuits in the brain, that it leads to unnecessary firing of neurons in the brain that are unrelated to the task that one is trying to do and that is unrelated to the information that one is trying to focus on. And

7 (7m 35s):
So what Adderall does is it's a stimulant that actually helps people to retain more dopamine na that occurs naturally in their brain and it also boosts the level of dopamine artificially in their brain a little bit. And so by giving them that dopamine boost, it allows them to better control their en impulses, better concentrate and therefore relieves the symptoms that are most commonly associated with A D H D. Over time, like we came to have a more medically sound understanding of what's happening with h d in terms of the the dopamine deficit that patients are experiencing and we also grew to appreciate the different ways that this condition can manifest both, you know, in different genders and also across different ages.

10 (8m 23s):
A study published in JAMA Open Network shows a 123% increase in ADHD in adults from 2007 to 2016.

7 (8m 32s):
We've also come to understand that like this doesn't just kind of dissipate over time like this can persist, you know, through when somebody's a teenager and even into when they're an adult it does tend to change form a little bit or become subtler like people do mature, even if they have adhd they maybe gain more control over their impulses, but like they still have that kind of underlying biological fact of a dopamine deficit. They still struggle with inattention maybe more than hyperactivity, but that's still there. The inattention, the lack of impulse control, that understanding and the research foundation for our understanding of ADHD has been building and building over time and basically doctors have just gotten a lot better at identifying it because they now know all of the diverse ways that it can manifest in the fact that it can persist with someone throughout their life.

7 (9m 26s):
And so naturally if we're getting better at identifying it, identifying it more often, that's gonna lead to more of the leading treatment for this condition. Adderall being prescribed. And we've seen that, you know, over the last five years or so, the number of Adderall prescriptions in the United States has increased from about 32 million in 2017 to almost 42 million by 2021.

1 (9m 53s):
So during the pandemic we all got used to telehealth in which, you know, you get online with a doctor and it sometimes felt like getting a prescription was a bit easier. Did the rise of telehealth during the pandemic have anything to do with the, that big change in numbers?

7 (10m 6s):
Yes. I don't think we know exactly how much the expansion of telehealth during covid contributed because you know, these, these trend lines were already heading in this direction before Covid ever showed up. But it is undeniable that like in recognition of the public health threat that Covid posed the DEA and and federal government said like, okay, we're gonna make it easier for doctors to prescribe drugs including Adderall remotely through like a virtual visit or after consulting with somebody over the phone. And so that did unavoidably make it easier for people to get an Adderall prescription And it's likely that that is at least a factor contributing to this increase in demand that we've continued to see over the past few years.

1 (10m 49s):
Last year we did an episode on cerebral, which is this telehealth startup that was maybe, maybe playing it a little fast and loose when it prescribed Adderall.

11 (10m 59s):
The questions that people started asking were around the quality of the diagnoses that the company's nurse practitioners were, were providing. Like how much can they actually know in 30 minutes? And were there cases where patients maybe don't have ADHD but are getting the meds anyway?

1 (11m 19s):
Do we know if part of this increase is people who maybe don't have adhd? Is anyone looking into that?

7 (11m 25s):
So it's likely a factor. Sarah Morrison at Vox has done some great reporting on some of the, the sketchy startups that have yes been maybe dispensing or issuing Adderall prescriptions when they're not necessarily warranted. I don't think we knew we can say exactly how much that is contributing. Like I said, these trend lines were already heading up before the pandemic or the expansion of telemedicine ever happened. But it is likely a factor and certainly it's something, something that the DEA is concerned about because the federal government has here in recent months proposed like, actually maybe we should roll some of this back. Maybe we should actually require somebody to consult with a doctor in person before their prescribed Adderall.

12 (12m 8s):
The Biden administration says patients who've started receiving prescriptions for controlled substances through telehealth during the pandemic could continue to do so for 180 days after the changes take effect.

1 (12m 19s):
There's been this big increase in Adderall prescriptions, how much of the shortage is because we just can't manufacture enough of it, we just can't make enough of it.

7 (12m 27s):
Well that is sort of the $64,000 question that nobody has a super satisfying answer for. So when a drug manufacturer is experiencing a shortage, they are required to tell the FDA and usually they'll provide a reason why, but they don't have to be super detailed about why they're experiencing a shortage. And right now there are at least five companies that produce Adderall or a generic version of Adderall that say they're experiencing a shortage. Those companies are citing both this increase in demand that we've been talking about as well as a shortage of the active ingredient Adderall, which is an amphetamine as the reasons for the shortage. So it seems to be a combination of the two things, but what's unique here with Adderall is that, you know, this isn't like some supply chain disruption.

7 (13m 15s):
You know, some problem over in India and China that's preventing these companies from getting their hands on the raw materials that they need to produce Adderall. As I said, Adderall, the active ingredient in it is an amphetamine, which is a controlled substance

3 (13m 31s):
Because

7 (13m 31s):
This is a controlled substance, the DEA actually sets production limits on how much Adderall can be produced. And so what these companies are saying is, you know, we don't actually have enough of what we need to make Adderall and that's the reason we're experiencing this shortage. But what's frustrating is we don't have access to the the raw information here. And the DEA on the other hand is saying that manufacturers aren't actually using enough of all the base materials for Adderall that they have been allotted.

13 (14m 1s):
The DEA says most manufacturers have plenty of supply and have not fully hit their supply quota for

7 (14m 7s):
Three years. And so we don't know what production limits the DA is actually set and we don't know how much it's actually authorized for any of these individual companies. And so the real root cause of the shortage here is a bit of a black box that we in the public can't really open

1 (14m 28s):
Coming up. Why would the DEA limit production on a drug that millions of people need? Dylan's gonna come back

Canva (14m 45s):
Support For this show today comes from Canva. You know those presentations you see, maybe it's at work or in a TED talk. What's your favorite TED talk? I like the guy who talks about tying his shoes. Anyway, those presentations that make you go, wow, that looks professional. Maybe they use a great font or a cohesive design language or some kind of special sauce that you can't even put your finger on. But Canva for teams will help you put your finger on it. Canva is a design platform focused on helping users create all sorts of stunning content, access a wide variety of templates, fonts and colors for your presentations, social media posts and websites. They have a video editor with a bunch of filters who doesn't love filters, they've also got animations and transitions to help you bring your content to life. And Canva can also help you execute your social media plan No matter how complex it is. Right now you can get a free 45 day extended trial when you go to canva.com/explained that ca nva.me/explained for a free 45 day extended trial canva.me/explained,

1 (15m 58s):
It's today explained. We're back with Vox Dylan, Scott Dylan, you told us earlier in the show that the DEA has a quota on Adderall production. People are at the moment freaking out because they can't get their medication or their kids can't get their medication. Why doesn't the government raise the quota?

7 (16m 13s):
Well, you know, I think it's important to acknowledge that Adderall can be abused. There's the cliche of like college students using it to study for an exam or finish up a project or what have you

9 (16m 26s):
Personally in my social circle it's literally everyone, everyone, every single person you can go up to the second floor of the library and see, you know, a full wing of people just

7 (16m 37s):
Cracked up. And we have data that like several million Americans based on what they report in like national surveys misuse Adderall or some kind of prescription stimulant every year. And you know, a couple hundred thousand people have like misuse it to the point that they have like a substance abuse disorder that's linked to stimulants. And so obviously like the DEA is a law enforcement agency and a big part of their job is making sure that drugs don't get diverted from their legitimate uses and end up, you know, on the black market and being misused by people. So that's why these production limits exist in the first place.

7 (17m 17s):
And so what the DEA is supposed to do is, you know, evaluate how much of a legitimate medical need they think there is in the United States based on, you know, the levels of ADHD diagnoses. And they weigh that against the risks of diversion and abuse and they come up with a number that admittedly again, none of us really know that should be enough to meet the legitimate medical need without, you know, creating this huge surplus that could be diverted and abused. And all we really know for sure is that a couple of months after the F D A said that Adderall was experiencing a shortage, the DEA put out a bulletin and said we are not going to increase quotas.

7 (17m 59s):
You know, in spite of a bunch of advocacy groups and physician groups saying that like, we're experiencing a shortage, can you please increase these quotas? And so it's, it's sort of the implicit DEA position that like whatever is happening behind these shortages, we don't need to authorize the production of more Adderall because they are concerned about too much Adderall getting out into the world and people misusing it.

1 (18m 26s):
I mean obviously in this country we have a huge problem with opioids and opioid addiction. Do you think the DEA is looking at what's happened over the last like 10, 20 years in the US and saying to itself we just have to be more conservative with stuff.

7 (18m 40s):
We can only speculate from the outside, but a lot of smart people who followed this stuff who have followed the opioid epidemic and are now looking at this Adderall shortage, they do think that the legacy of the opioid crisis is kind of hanging over Adderall and the DA's stance on these production limits. You know, obviously as you were saying 2030 years ago, these opioids came on the market as legitimate drugs that were gonna be able to relieve people's chronic pain. Once

16 (19m 9s):
You found the right doctor and have told him or her about your pain, don't be afraid to take what they give you. Often it will be an opioid medication

7 (19m 19s):
And sort of before anybody really got a handle on what was happening, you know, we had this proliferation of misuse. You eventually had people moving on to illegal drugs like heroin. Now we have fentanyl and tran on the scene.

17 (19m 32s):
It's a deadly skin rotting zombie drug that evil drug dealers are now mixing with fentanyl, with heroin and with other drugs.

7 (19m 43s):
The human costs of that mistake are obvious I think to anybody living in the US right now. You know, we've got millions of people who misuse opioids regularly. We have tens of thousands of people dying from overdoses every year. And so you can understand why the DEA looking at that history isn't necessarily eager to just like turn on the faucet all the way and let as much Adderall production as is, you know, sort of physically possible or or possible from a manufacturing capacity standpoint. Go ahead. When we know that this is a drug that can be misused and we have that very recent history of like falling behind in putting a check on the proliferation of opioids and we're living with the consequences of that now

18 (20m 29s):
Overdose deaths top 100,000 for the first time ever in 2021 and nearly 70% of those overdoses involve fentanyl.

7 (20m 38s):
But I do think it's important to recognize that doctors who work with A D H D patients, they don't necessarily think that it's fair to compare Adderall to opioids. You know, it is true that Adderall can be misused, but it does not incur the same kind of dependence that opioids do. It is not nearly as lethal though it can be lethal. It is not nearly as lethal as something like fentanyl. The folks that I have talked to, basically they don't want the faucet opened all the way up necessarily, but they think it should be loosened. Like we should see given the increase in diagnoses that we've seen over the last 10 to 20 years. And given that Adderall does not pose as much of a public health threat as opioids do, then we should be allowing more production because you know, here we are six months into a shortage of a drug that millions of Americans rely on, you know, just to be able to get through their lives and and function normally.

1 (21m 33s):
What are the odds of that happening that the government loosens up a bit?

7 (21m 38s):
I don't think they're particularly good. I think obviously at right now the focus is on just trying to end this shortage as much as possible. At least some of the companies that are experiencing shortages right now say that they should be able to pick production back up here in the next few months. And so, you know, especially once the current shortage abates, that's gonna decrease the pressure on the DEA or some other federal authority to try to increase production levels. There are ideas out there about how we might adjust our treatment of Adderall a little bit and try to at least distinguish it from opioids and treat it a little more loosely. But that doesn't mean just having a free for all.

7 (22m 19s):
For example, there was a, an op-ed in the New York Times a few weeks ago that proposed maybe the DEA shouldn't be in charge of overseeing Adderall production. Maybe that should be a job for the fda. A doctor I talked to in the Cleveland area who treats ADHD patients, he made the point that like, you know, Ohio, like all states has a prescription drug monitoring program. They have to report information on both opioids and Adderall to that prescription drug monitoring database. But for opioids they have to check it like once a month. Which makes sense because like the risk of misuse is really high, of somebody becoming dependent is really high. And obviously the potential consequences in terms of somebody overdosing are really severe for Adderall.

7 (23m 3s):
They still check it, but it's only once a year that shows is sort of a reflection of the relative risk that these two different drugs pose. And so I think in general that sort of distinction is what, you know, a lot of doctors, a lot of patient advocates would like to see the government make.

6 (23m 26s):
I'm not really surprised that the government is being weird about it. I mean the government was being weird about marijuana and now like, look at us, you know, once you start to see the benefits of like medical marijuana and all of the ways that it can assist people. So I'm not really surprised when it comes to that. On the flip side, a controlled substance that has the ability to be very, very dangerous when not regulated and has the potential to be abused like that adds a layer to it, right? And I would love in a perfect world for us to be able to find a solution in which those who can need the medication have an easier way to access the medication while also creating programs that assist people who end up in situations where they are abusing the drug, right?

6 (24m 10s):
Like there's ways for us to do both. We just need to kind of get out of our own way and do what's best for the people in these situations rather than like punishing everybody.

1 (24m 27s):
AJ Mus is a historian in Seattle and she would do anything for s Dylan Scott is a senior health correspondent at Vox. Today's show was produced by Miles Bryan and edited by Matthew Collette. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Patrick Boyd and Michael Rayfield. I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.