1 (9s):
It's today explained I'm Sean Rama's firm and we're just a few days away from the end of our second year. We can blame just about anything on COVID-19 supply shortages. That's COVID-19 being a bad friend. Yep. That's COVID-19 quit your job. COVID-19 the insane spike in gun violence. COVID-19 in 2020, the homicide rate rose by almost 30%. That's the biggest spike. Since the FBI started keeping track about 60 years prior, we didn't see as big a surge in 2021, but the number of murders is still up in the United States. From last year earlier this year, we tried to figure out what exactly was going on with this spike in American gun violence today.

1 (52s):
Explain producers, Jillian, Weinberger, and miles. Brian linked up with pro-public as Alec McGillis to look at how this is all playing out in one city. In particular, the city of Philadelphia, we ran the reporting and two back-to-back episodes today. As we look back on the year, we're bringing you both of those shows in one here's Alec.

2 (1m 13s):
So Philadelphia offers one of the starkest examples of this terrible nationwide trend. They had 499 homicides last year, which is just one shy of their all time record of 500 setback in 1990. And this year is looking like it's going to be even worse, much worse than last year. And unlike many other major cities, Philly actually had a referendum on the issue of public safety in the form of their election. For district attorney, the city put all this in front of voters like Nikisha Bella

3 (1m 46s):
Just want to be very informed.

2 (1m 49s):
I met Nikisha on Pennsylvania's primary day, May 18th. Her coffee table was covered in election mailers and sample ballots.

3 (1m 56s):
So sitting here, just system through, we was just talking about the ballot questions and things

2 (2m 1s):
Nikisha was especially invested in one race, the race for district attorney because their son was shot and killed in March. I'm speaking for

3 (2m 9s):
A lot of mothers. I'm carrying that

2 (2m 11s):
Weight through Nikisha and her family. We can see how Philly managed his gun violence problem years ago. And what's happened since we're going to go on this two episode journey with her. And by the end of it, she's going to choose who to vote for. She'll pick a vision of how the city should be responding to this crisis.

3 (2m 35s):
So you guys really want to hear from the humble beginning.

2 (2m 40s):
Yeah. A couple today explained producers and I taught with Nikisha at our dining room table on a sunny day back in may.

3 (2m 46s):
This is going to turn into an interview of not just about just Dominic, but Dominic and his mom. Just when I found out that I was carrying Dominic, it was like the best thing that had ever happened to me.

2 (2m 60s):
This was back in 2000, when Nikisha was in her early twenties, violent crime was still near an all time high in Philadelphia. Nikisha his neighborhood had its share of issues, but she was proud of what she had built after being raised by her grandparents and then living with her sister. She had finally gotten a place of her own a three bedroom house in a neighborhood called Kensington pretty quickly though, the situation there became unstable.

3 (3m 25s):
It was very nice outside. We hit one of those early warm, seasonal time period.

2 (3m 30s):
When Dominic was about six weeks old, Nikisha walked with him to the corner store to get something to eat.

3 (3m 35s):
When I left out of the store that day, a fight hair broke out and it was gunfire all around me and I just froze and it was nothing I can do, but just stay in here and hold my baby. And I remember going home back into the house and saying, I can't do this. I can't raise my baby in this neighborhood.

2 (3m 57s):
Nikisha decided to leave. She packed up the first place she'd ever called her own and went to a shelter with her son.

3 (4m 3s):
It was a hard decision, but even harder if I would have stayed,

2 (4m 9s):
She lived in the shelter for about a year. Eventually she moved into subsidized housing, got a job in medical billing, but Nikisha wanted to spend more time with her son. So she looked for work where she could still be with him.

3 (4m 21s):
There was a school bus company that allowed the drivers to bring the children and work with them. If they couldn't find childcare. And I remember studying hard for my CDL so that I could get the job where I can bring Dominic to work with me 2004,

2 (4m 41s):
She bought a big airy house in Northeast Philadelphia, a working class, mostly white neighborhood. That's where we talked to her in may

3 (4m 49s):
I moved to the Northeast because I just wanted to give them a better start, not just the safer streets, but even better education.

2 (4m 59s):
The Keystone Dominic like the new neighborhood. It was safer. And as Dominic grew Philly as a whole, it was getting safer too.

4 (5m 7s):
It was a change in behavior by folks who might normally

2 (5m 13s):
The homicide rate fell sharply under one mayor in particular, Michael Nutter, he was in office from 2008 to 2016, only the third black mayor in the city's history.

5 (5m 26s):
The law about us, citizens of Philadelphia. I say that we are the great majority until the law breakers. You are in a small minority. This is our city, and we're taking it back.

2 (5m 41s):
You focused specifically on the young guys who are most likely to be involved with gun violence, often young black men in poor neighborhoods,

4 (5m 49s):
Them every day to think about before they came out of the house. I know they're actively stopping people. Maybe I shouldn't carry this gun today.

2 (5m 60s):
Cause I don't want to get caught. Mayor Nutter was relying on a core belief among criminologists, the need for what they call swift certain and fair policies. It's the idea that people are much less likely to carry guns or commit other crimes. If they know punishment for doing so will be swift certain and fair, fair doesn't mean the prison sentence has to be long to be effective. People just have to know that they're likely to get caught and will face some consequences. That's the idea. Anyway, in practice Nutter's approach to reducing gun violence relied on a lot of stop and frisk that led to a court case in 2011, the city of Philadelphia settled a lawsuit with the ACLU, which alleged that more than half of the police department stops were unconstitutional.

2 (6m 47s):
That was more than 100,000 illegal stops in one year. Now, nutters administration implemented a bunch of other programs too high.

4 (6m 58s):
I believe that there are some people probably still alive today because of any of the things we,

2 (7m 5s):
They double down on community policing, getting more cops out, walking around in neighborhoods that saw a lot of crime. They supported violence interruption programs, which paid for locals in dangerous neighborhoods to try and head off conflicts before they get violent. And the police department also tried a program that focused their resources on the very small group of people who are most likely to be involved with gun crime and something worked. The homicide rate started to fall pretty quickly after Nutter took office by 2014, when Dominic was in middle school, the city's homicide rate was about half of what it was at its peak nearly 25 years earlier. But this drop wasn't just in Philly, crime, felony, York, the overall trend in all of

3 (7m 47s):
Our crime categories continues to go down

6 (7m 50s):
LA and LA declined for

2 (7m 51s):
The 11th straight year, all over the country.

7 (7m 53s):
The crime rate in the U S went down in 2009 for the third year

2 (7m 56s):
In a row. And criminologists don't all agree on what exactly led to the dramatic drop in crime. It might've been the end of the crack epidemic. Some even point to a decline in kids' exposure to lead some also highlight the success of the targeted policing programs. What may or not are launched in Philly Nikisha well, she appreciated the fact that the city was getting safer, but those police stops were often on her mind. Her family was growing. She eventually adopted three more kids and had another baby. She fretted about them, especially in their mostly white neighborhood.

3 (8m 31s):
My family was excepted, but not totally. I think Dominic, he had the worst times and experiences because his skin color were darker.

2 (8m 41s):
Nikisha worried about Dominic a lot, but especially when her son got his driver's license, her husband at the time was actually a homicide detective assigned to the DA's office. And he, and Nikisha may Dominic carry copies of his license and registration in the glove box, in the center console. Even in his coat pocket,

3 (8m 58s):
You don't just have that anxiety building up on my child is a new driver and making sure he obeys all the driving laws and regulations. But now you have this other monster that you have to worry about being pulled over and running into the wrong officer, all mothers of black and brown children. We share that fear.

2 (9m 19s):
Yeah. That fear, the very real fear of running into the wrong officer helped jumpstart a movement in Philly, in the race for the city's district attorney back in 2017 district attorneys have a lot of power. Once someone's arrested the DA's office decides which charges to bring against them or whether to charge them at all

8 (9m 40s):
For now, charge him with men. One funny.

9 (9m 43s):
He smells like murder

2 (9m 44s):
Too. To me, the da helps decide who gets let out on bail.

8 (9m 47s):
Your honor, the defendant has been convicted of murder once before he is a repeat offender. There's a soldier in the Mitsubishi family and is considered a flight risk. This office requests that he be,

2 (9m 56s):
Oh, without bill, they stand opposite. The defense attorney in the courtroom.

9 (10m 0s):
Did you know it was wrong when you woke up that morning? Yes. Did you know it was wrong when you ate your cereal? Yes. He's badgering. Your honor, sit down and shut up. Mr. Fineman

2 (10m 13s):
And then negotiate on which case it should be plea, bargained and wish to go to trial. Don't worry.

9 (10m 17s):
We get it. You need the case. You could prosecute. I also need a case that won't bounce on a motion to dismiss

2 (10m 25s):
For years, Phillies, da like most big city DA's was a law and order type, but in 2017, a new kind of candidate pulled ahead and Phillies da race. We all know that

10 (10m 35s):
Reality. The reality is that if you're a kid on Penn campus, walking around with weed in your back pocket, you are going to be protected by the Penn police. That's what they're there for. And if you are a black or brown kid who is three blocks away, who is not a Penn student, then you're going to be put up against the wall three or four times by police officers.

2 (10m 51s):
Sir, this is Larry Krasner. One of the city's best known defense attorneys.

11 (10m 59s):
Krasner a long time. Civil rights attorney promises big changes to the cities,

2 (11m 3s):
The justice system. He was a civil rights lawyer who represented black lives matter. Activists, occupied protestors in suits against the police. Still in 2017, he won the DA's race in a landslide.

12 (11m 18s):
Philadelphia political landscape has been substantially abandoned tonight. Larry Krasner obliterated

2 (11m 25s):
With Krasner's when Philadelphia became part of what's known as the progressive prosecutor movement alongside cities like San Francisco, Chicago, Boston, and Los Angeles. It's a movement to elect officials like Krasner lawyers who want to transform the DA's role to focus on reducing incarceration and racism in the criminal justice system.

13 (11m 45s):
<em></em> government, what it wants and what it wants is criminal

10 (11m 54s):
Justice reform in ways that require transformational change within Philadelphia

2 (12m 4s):
Krasner had this port of many Progressive's. He also had strong support from rank and file black voters. The voters, most likely to bear the brunt of police violence and incarceration voters like Nikisha.

3 (12m 16s):
And I came in with letting us know that our civil rights will no longer be violated. And I think that's why he got for support other people.

1 (12m 37s):
Alec, when does this anti prosecutor, prosecutor, Larry Krasner enter office

2 (12m 42s):
And Philadelphia, his term began in January, 2018 culture.

10 (12m 46s):
The DA's office has like a sports culture. They try to maximize convictions and maximize years, and it's a failed approach. It has made things worse instead of making them better.

2 (12m 57s):
Krasner believed he was elected to overhaul that culture. He started making changes right away on a cold January Friday, just as fourth day in office, Krasner fired 30 career prosecutors without warning. It became known as the snow day massacre. Jim, it is

14 (13m 13s):
It's one of the most shocking and drastic shakeups of the Philadelphia district attorney's office that anyone can recall, but it most definitely should not come as any surprise to those who had been following the campaign promises of Larry crests

2 (13m 25s):
With this new team in place, Krasner implemented major reforms. He stopped prosecuting some low-level offenses altogether like marijuana, possession and prostitution. He drastically reduced the number of people on probation and parole. And he made big changes to the city's bail system.

10 (13m 41s):
Absolutely. No reason why someone who will show up for court is not a risk of flight is no threat to their neighbors and community should sit in jail for days or weeks or months or years because they can't post a small amount.

2 (13m 57s):
At first Krasner got rid of bail for a bunch of low-level crimes like retail, theft, DUI, resisting arrest, but in March of 2020, Krasner added more offenses to that. No bail list,

10 (14m 13s):
The pandemic hits the courts have just closed. We are facing a potential crisis in terms of Philly county jail becoming a super spreader. If there are too many people in there. So we make a decision and I made the decision that we're going to try to simulate a no cash bail system.

2 (14m 33s):
Krasner's office stopped seeking bail for many offenses, except for cases deemed serious violent.

10 (14m 39s):
In every case, we're either going to say no bail, or we're going to name a very high number.

2 (14m 46s):
President says his office almost, oh, it seeks high bail for gun cases, but he told us hasn't oh, it's been so successful in prosecuting them.

10 (14m 55s):
There was a decline and convictions for a gun possession cases early in the administrator.

2 (15m 3s):
It was a major decline. Within two years of Krasner taking office. The conviction rate for gun possession had dropped by more than 20%. According to the Inquirer Krasner mostly blames. The police for this witnesses didn't show up evidence was weak. He thinks that's why so many gun possession defendants ended up not being convicted. All of this meant that Krasner's tenure was controversial from the start, but the debate really took off last year when Phillies homicide rates skyrocketed

15 (15m 30s):
Jason with five murders and a dozen shootings over the weekend gun violence was on everyone's mind again today, including the district attorney Philadelphia district attorney, Larry Krasner is defending his record and says he is tackling the ongoing violence in our city.

16 (15m 44s):
You got Krasner. He will not prosecuted. And he will plead deal these folks. And they back out on the street, you give them bail money. And next thing you know, he's shooting somebody up.

2 (16m 3s):
A lot of Philadelphia police officers and their supporters blame the homicide spike on Krasner, including Joseph

17 (16m 10s):
Retired, deputy commissioner, Philadelphia police, dog, owner, and dog proud dog owner.

2 (16m 17s):
I met Joe, his German shepherds and his Yorkie poo at his house, not too far from where Nikisha lives in Northeast Philadelphia.

17 (16m 24s):
I spent multiple ranks in SWAT as an officer, Lieutenant captain and the chief inspector. I was the commanding officer of narcotics.

2 (16m 32s):
Joe retired in January of 2020. He had a reputation for being pretty centrist politically.

17 (16m 37s):
I totally understand the need to end mass incarceration and bail reform probation reform. People should not be put on probation for a minor offense. And then technical violations

2 (16m 50s):
Still the former deputy commissioner thinks Krasner's reforms go too far. What is your gut sense of Western going on

17 (16m 57s):
The last couple of years? I don't think you could ignore the election of the new da and the reform measures that were put in place in Philadelphia. The city's a wash with guns and the goal of any police department is to make that core group of violent recidivists, really afraid to be caught carrying a gun because they know that there is a reasonable prison sentence in their future. And that is enough to make people say, I'm just, just leave the gun at home on it. I don't want to get caught with a gun.

2 (17m 30s):
Yeah. Joe Sullivan believes that to reduce gun violence. People need to know there's a good chance. They'll be punished. If they're caught with an illegal gun, he worries. That's not happening under Krasner.

17 (17m 40s):
If your buddy goes to court, they dropped the felony charge and let them walk out the door on a misdemeanor charge. What do you think he does when he gets back? He tells everyone we've heard these discussions on prison tapes, presenters talking about, you know, Hey,

2 (17m 53s):
Don't worry about it. Krasner just doesn't think that's true

10 (17m 55s):
Notion that a bunch of young men whose brains are not even fully formed are carefully following crime statistics. And they're following the paper and they're never going to Rob a bank. If somebody gets arrested and convicted for robbing a bank, well guess what? They've been arrested and convicted for Robyn banks and they still Rob banks.

2 (18m 13s):
This is a fundamental disagreement between Sullivan's camp and reformers like Krasner. It mirrors an argument that criminologists often have those that agree with Krasner. Say, Hey, these young guys, aren't reading the news. Those that agree with Sullivan. Say these young men figure out that there won't be consequences for caring when they see their friends back out on the street. So the Sullivan argument goes more people carry. And when they're more guns on the street, they're more likely to be used. More people get shot, more people die like Nikisha son Dominick lately.

3 (18m 48s):
He never said which mall he was going to. He just want me to just go at me outfit. And I said, okay. And as always be safe, you know, I love you.

2 (18m 57s):
Don went to a nearby mall to get new clothes. He left his job at a hospital during the pandemic because he was worried about bringing home. COVID. Now that the city was starting to reopen, he was hoping to join the steamfitters union. That was a theme

3 (19m 10s):
As if apprenticeship local four 20,

2 (19m 13s):
That afternoon Nikisha was actually headed to the same mall on her bus route. She now drives for the city.

3 (19m 19s):
And when I pulled in, I saw the ambulance. I saw the police. I even heard the helicopters over top. There were three people that got on a bus. And when I got to the last person that was paying their fear, I had said, what in the world is going on over there at the mall? And he sent me, somebody just got shot up in here and oh my gosh, you got to be kidding me. I didn't allow my mind at that moment to go there. But I instantly was afraid and I wanted to pick up my phone, but I had passengers on board and were not allowed to hear her phone.

3 (20m 4s):
Of course, with safety issues. The first moment I got to pull over on my bus was clear. I picked up my phone and I saw nothing but red going straight down the phone from his cause I dialed the first number and I'm like, what's wrong? What happened? And they would just say, Kesha, I'm starting. I'm like, well, what, who, what, what happened? And they couldn't say, sorry, I hung up on them. Dial the next number. And then I got the same thing, Kesha. I'm so sorry. I might do so. Sorry. What? Hung up. Dial the next number. And I think I got my brother and he just kept saying Kesha's doll.

3 (20m 49s):
I'm like, okay, it's down. So just tell me he's okay. Tell me he's okay. He said I can't.

2 (21m 4s):
Dominic died on March 29th, 2021. He was 21 years old. Nikisha buried him two weeks later when we met her house was filled with keepsakes decorated with Dobbs likeness of painting, a face mask, a pillow, a quilt, all to keep his presence close. A suspect. Also 21 was arrested and charged with first degree murder. A couple of weeks after the shooting, his case is making its way through the courts. The motive is still unclear, but he had a record. Police had already arrested him twice for gun possession in 2018 and 2019. Both times he'd been released on bail and both cases are not resolved.

2 (21m 47s):
The Kesha couldn't help, but wonder would a more conventional prosecutor have made a difference. Maybe Larry Krasner was too lax on gun cases. Maybe a different prosecutor would have put the suspect behind bars for gun possession. Maybe that would have prevented dumb staff. When Dominic died, Larry Krasner was campaigning for reelection against a prosecutor. He fired Carlos Vega. They go as a career homicide prosecutor who was supported by the police union on primary day. Nikisha still wasn't sure which candidate to support.

3 (22m 20s):
I'm speaking for a lot of mothers. I'm speaking for a lot of minorities who have been victimized with the justice system as well. So it's like for me, it's, it's a multi-dimensional quest of knowledge before I vote, because it's so many different areas that are at stake at this

2 (22m 44s):
Nikisha was torn. It couldn't just be Krasner's fault. A lot of the cities that saw gun violence spike in 2020 didn't have progressive prosecutors. The fact is there were a lot of changes last year for Dominic, for Philadelphia, and for young people all across the country, everything got shut down. Schools, libraries, rec centers, and even the courts, the guy who allegedly shot Dom, his prior gun arrests were still awaiting court dates before Dom was killed. Those cases were delayed. The courts decided to cease nearly all operations for COVID-19

1 (23m 28s):
In a moment how the pandemic made gun violence worse and what Philadelphia voters decided to do Support for the show today comes from imperfect foods. You know, when it's like snowing in the winter and you look up at the sky and Marvel at how just every last snowflake is a little different imperfect foods is trying to do that. But with food, they want to bring you groceries that embrace fruits and veggies of every shape, size, and vibe, even, you know, because once you chop it all up and throw it in your, your salad or your pasta or your Curry or whatever the heck it is, you're, you're making your goulash.

1 (24m 23s):
It doesn't really matter what that vegetable or fruit looked like. And that's their whole point. They're going to bring you all the food in an effort to keep groceries and food, buying more sustainable and to reduce waste right now in perfect foods. For a limited time is going to give you 20% off plus free shipping on your first order. When you go to imperfect boons.com and use explained 20 to sign up, that is 20% off plus free shipping@imperfectfoods.com with the offer code explained 20 Support for the show today comes from door dash door Nash. For those of you not in the know is a delivery service that allows you to order from restaurants, grocery stores, and even convenience stores from the comfort of your home and with their dash pass membership, you can save an average of four to $5 Bob, on each order you place for delivery or pickup.

1 (25m 23s):
If you're ready to save money on your door dash orders, here's what you want to do. Use the promo code Vox explained kind of smashed together. Box explained all one word for 50% off your first order of $12 or more after you sign up for dash pass, that is 50% off your first dash pass order up to $20 value with the promo code Vox explained, say goodbye to delivery fees. Get dash pass from door dash today. Using the promo code. VOC explained when you've got zero delivery fees, you're free to get more because you can start your free month trial today.

2 (26m 21s):
Back in may. I went down to this riverfront park in Southwest Philly called Bartram's garden. It has a little dock with a bunch of robots. I was with a few today. Explain producers, Myles Brian and Jillian Weinberger. We went to meet up with teens who were part of a youth group called yeah. Philly. Some of them have been caught up in the criminal justice system. A couple were wearing ankle monitors because they had active cases. But that afternoon everybody was relaxed. It was a good vibe.

18 (26m 50s):
You ever catch anything? No. Yeah. Yo, I think I caught like two fish though. Have you caught anything? I've caught a couple of condoms.

6 (26m 60s):
Oh shit. I got a turtle.

2 (27m 1s):
We were there to ask these young people what they thought was driving Philly, spike and done violence. Tiffany Rudolph landed all on one thing.

6 (27m 9s):
The pandemic there's no other way around that. Like we're not in school anymore. There's kids, especially me. Like I've depended on going to school to keep myself out of trouble. There's a lot of kids that I know. Like I was worried for some of the safety of other kids. Cause it's like people come to the school for an escape. I do blame the pandemic as far as to why the gun violence went up.

2 (27m 32s):
Tiffany's theory that the surgeon violence was directly tied to the pandemic. It's a lot like what? Philly, da lyric Krasner told us. He was the prosecutor who made a lot of reforms and was taking heat for them, from people who said those reforms are driving the spike in shootings, not so he told us

10 (27m 49s):
You have no organized sports for a year. Essentially. You have high school classrooms that are closed. You have summer camps, closed summer job programs closed. You have all the programming that goes with houses of faith. Shut down. You had the stripping away of essentially everything we have taken for granted as being preventative and protective of young people. And when all that happened, guess what? Young people were killing. A lot of

2 (28m 18s):
The young people Krasner believes the pandemic and the way it appended all of our lives is the reason for the increase in gun violence. We wanted to see how this dynamic has played out for young people in Philadelphia. So we decided to spend some more time with Tiffany to see how the pandemic affected her day-to-day life.

6 (28m 41s):
What are we listening to? I don't know YouTube.

2 (28m 45s):
Her apartment's neat, but pretty sparse. There's a poster up on the wall for a drinking game and another, with a line of scripture,

6 (28m 53s):
I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens me. It was here when I got here, but I didn't take it down because like I like

2 (28m 60s):
It. Tiffany took us back to early 2020.

6 (29m 2s):
That was a straight a student. I had a 4.0 GPA. I was on a national honor society. I was number two or three in my class,

2 (29m 10s):
The feet for any kid. But Tiffany circumstances made it remark

6 (29m 14s):
In 2018. I was taken by DHS to be put in foster care and not taking taken. I signed myself in enough foster care. My household, I was living with my stepmother and my dad was incarcerated and it just wasn't going well. I was forced to grow up at an early age.

2 (29m 33s):
Tiffany grew up in west Philadelphia in a neighborhood that struggled with poverty and shootings for a long time for Tiffany and a lot of kids like her school, wasn't just a place to learn. It was a place of stability and safety in an often chaotic world. Tiffany also played soccer, joined youth groups, interned with her school's administrative office, took classes at a local university, worked a job, anything she could to stay occupied, but then the COVID lockdown began

19 (30m 2s):
Last evening. I announced that we had lost the first of what will become many Pennsylvania's to the novel Corona

20 (30m 8s):
And happening right now. All restaurants and bars in Philadelphia are being ordered to shut down. Since

21 (30m 13s):
We have breaking news from the Philadelphia school district, officials have just announced that schools will be closed indefinitely. No doubt. Officials will return.

2 (30m 22s):
All of Tiffany's activities were canceled and schools shrunk down to a box on her screen.

6 (30m 27s):
It got draining. Like I went from being energized to lazy. Like you go from waking up early in the morning by the second bus to get to school. You're up, you're energized. You're ready to go. Like you're ready for the day. It's like, your home is like, oh, well technically I don't have to get out of bed. So I'm just going to stay at a bed. That's not healthy at all.

2 (30m 46s):
She limped to graduation and managed to enroll at temple university for the fall. But when college classes started online, she had a hard time.

6 (30m 54s):
Academically. I fell temporal to the point where I have no credits for my first semester. I dropped out of school my second semester, before it was over

2 (31m 10s):
Teenagers, across the country, struggled to stay engaged with our schoolwork during the pandemic. Many of them dealing with increased anxiety and depression, some pediatricians have reported more suicide attempts. Philadelphia's high school stayed almost entirely closed through this last school year. The rec centers shut down. The library is shut down. Even now many of the city's swimming pools are still shuttered. The school shutdowns were initiated to save lives. But for some of the boys, Tiffany grew up with the shutdowns themselves, put them at risk.

6 (31m 43s):
A lot of people, they went to school to escape from their home. You never know what people go through behind closed doors. They could have went to school just to eat because they don't have food at home. They could've went to school to get the loving from their teachers because they couldn't get that at home. Now I know some of the boys, like they used to go talk to the counselor, no matter how they act or whatever there, they will go to the counselor. And it's like, for them, I know what hit them hard because it's like, you don't have a counselor nowhere. And it's like, okay, they have free time. Now you have 24 7 out of the day. You're not in school. You don't have to do anything technically. So it was like, oh, I'm going to go out and do this. I'm going to go out and do that. And it's because they don't have the structure of going to school anymore.

2 (32m 24s):
And it wasn't just school that was out. It was afterschool programs too. Like yeah, Philly. The one that took the kids fishing, whether it's you gotta do

22 (32m 32s):
Your homework. You want to hang out. You want to play video games. You can all come in

2 (32m 37s):
Kendra fan of water's the co-founder before we went out on the dock together, she walked us through the group's new permanent location in the heart of west Philly, beanbag

22 (32m 46s):
There's TV bookshelves. All of that.

2 (32m 49s):
Kendra created this place for kids to decompress process and talk out disputes, a place to head off conflict before it has the chance to become violent before there's even a reason for cops to get involved.

22 (33m 1s):
We mediate a lot of stuff. We have kids who come here and say, this is the only place they feel like they don't have to bring a gun. They're with us at events. They're saying that's the only time they feel like they don't have to look over their shoulder. So we're trying to create a culture where we have to find you other ways, you know, to resolve things and to feel safe without carrying a gun

2 (33m 27s):
Up until March of 2020, the group was operating out of Philly's public rec centers, hosting dozens of young people every week for meals and after school activities, when the pandemic hit those rec centers closed. Yeah. Philly tried to continue online, but it wasn't the same.

22 (33m 44s):
Most of our kids and young people, they want to be seen in person. They don't do well logging on and doing all of that. So that was a loss. And we weren't able to reconnect with them on a deeper level until we were able to get our own space

2 (33m 58s):
With school, online rec centers locked and even basketball hoops taken down. Kendra, wasn't surprised when the shooting rate started to go up and Philly in the spring of 2020, as that happened, more people started carrying guns. We know that because police were finding more guns when they were making stops. Research shows that generally more guns leads to more shootings. We asked Kendra about Joe Sullivan's explanation for this he's the former deputy police commissioner. You heard from the last episode,

17 (34m 33s):
I don't think you could ignore the election of the new da and the reform measures that were put in place

2 (34m 40s):
Sullivan thought that because the conviction rate for gun possession has fallen under Krasner. The da has created a sort of culture of impunity where more young people were carrying guns because they figured they had a pretty good chance of getting away with it. Kendra doesn't buy it.

22 (34m 54s):
They think that far, I think that it's really about them protecting themselves. And we talk about that too. A lot of them don't understand how the system works. Even the ones that are in there, they don't understand, you know, what the numbers are or what the process is, even for their own

2 (35m 12s):
Kendra blames the pandemic. And what came a few months later in late may of 2020,

22 (35m 22s):
We did so much processing with our young people around that. You know, they're watching Instagram videos of George Floyd being killed. How many times they're in the midst of all of the protests and uprisings that are happening in their neighborhoods

2 (35m 38s):
In Philly and a number of other cities. Some people looted stores and set police cars on fire

23 (35m 43s):
Thick, black smoke billowing in the air. That's because I, at least four police cars have been burning after proteins.

2 (35m 52s):
Some of the worst looting happened in Tiffany's old neighborhood

24 (35m 55s):
Police <em></em> in the residential areas before it even made it to the intersection at 52nd and arch

2 (36m 3s):
Allies of the police. People like Joe Sullivan, they blame local officials for not doing enough to support cops through the protests.

17 (36m 10s):
Oh, it destroyed morale. It really did. It destroyed

2 (36m 13s):
Morale. Krasner's office actually charged two officers for their behavior. During that period, one for pepper spraying and activists in the face. The other for hitting a protester in the head with this

17 (36m 23s):
Officers are saying, man, if they're getting locked up that easily, I don't really want, I don't want to get involved in this. I I've got a mortgage to pay in tuition

2 (36m 33s):
During all of this. Tons of cops are retiring early or just quitting altogether. At the same time, city officials decided to close the police academy, the pipeline for new recruits due to the pandemic, The rate of police stops and Philly had already fallen off. When COVID first hit, officers were told to avoid low-level arrests altogether to try and slow the spread of the virus. After the protests, the number of police stops fell. Even further. Officers were stretched thin dealing with protests and looting and enforcing a curfew. But some of that decline, might've also just been the police choosing to make fewer stops. Maybe they don't get out of their cars and walk through the neighborhoods.

2 (37m 14s):
Maybe they don't chase every lead. Maybe they take their time responding to a call. I'm

17 (37m 18s):
Sure that some officers are pulled back.

2 (37m 21s):
Police stops fell in cities across the country and gun violence spiked, and almost all of them. Criminologist generally agree that having more cops walking around just seeing and being seen helps deter crime, but activists like Kendra say blaming the police pull back for the surgeon. Violence misses a bigger point that big city departments have done a bad job at solving gun crimes. For years in Philadelphia, police make arrests and fewer than 50% of homicide cases, the rate for non-fatal shootings is even lower than that. Just about one in four resulted in an arrest. Kendra says people living in areas with a lot of violent crime, understand that viscerally,

22 (38m 4s):
If a person is taken from you and you don't believe in that system to solve that, that murder, they'll say we'll just handle it ourselves because they're not going to solve it. Anyway.

2 (38m 15s):
After all the high profile deaths that police hands and recent years, Tiffany has been wary of working with the police to

6 (38m 21s):
Like my error of teams. Like we've been like cautious around cops, but like it got worse. It kept happening. It kept happening and nothing was being done about it. So it was like, okay, at this point, it's like, we're fed

2 (38m 34s):
Up. Tiffany says she's had a dozen family members and friends get shot. Most of them, since the pandemic began, she told miles

6 (38m 42s):
That Philly police finally arrested a suspect in the murder of one of her friends this spring a few years after it happened. I actually cried. That's the first time I actually heard someone like my friend or any of my friends, killings being solved.

25 (38m 57s):
It was a weird to like, have that feeling of not happy, but just sort of like appreciative of

6 (39m 1s):
The cops. It was, I, I don't know. I don't, my feelings will not change towards the cops. I don't care. I'm not about to thank you for doing your job. Yeah, no, you, you did your job. It took you long enough is what I will say. It took you long enough.

2 (39m 24s):
This distrust. It can help fuel a cycle of retaliation that can be nearly impossible to stop. So once he's a friend or family member gets shot, they don't see the police as an option. So they don't return a cops call during the investigation or agree to testify. Instead, they take matters into their own hands. They get revenge that crew retaliates in return. A lot of this now plays out on social media, ramping up the tension on and on. It goes, criminologists, say these two things, the police stepping back and the community's growing distrust of the cops. They're like two sides of the same coin, but they both played a role in fueling the gun violence spike.

2 (40m 14s):
And this brings us back to Larry Krasner.

10 (40m 16s):
I mean, this is a showdown between the past and the future. This is a showdown between criminal justice reform and the kind of criminal justice that is in an old brutal and racist,

2 (40m 26s):
Just policing. The city had to decide whether to stick with Larry Krasner and his promise to transform the criminal justice system or whether to vote for his challenger. Carlos Vega, Mr.

26 (40m 36s):
Krasner, you have blood

2 (40m 37s):
On your hands. He's a former homicide prosecutor. Larry Krasner had actually fired him along with a few dozen other career prosecutors. When he took office in 2018 on May 18th, primary day turn out, started slow.

20 (40m 52s):
Both of the candidates had busy schedules today trying to make sure their supporters cast their ballot for an election that is being watched beyond.

26 (41m 0s):
We need a change. We need safety and reform. We can do both.

10 (41m 5s):
You cannot blame the prosecutors or the police for the fact that the pandemic shutdown. So many things,

28 (41m 10s):
I'm going to move out of the city of Krasner winds. Again, I want to stay in Philadelphia. I love Philadelphia, but I, I can't live under like president another four years.

26 (41m 18s):
We're taking illegal guns and record numbers, but there's no consequence. We're asking the DA's office. Like, what are you doing

27 (41m 31s):
Becca

2 (41m 35s):
In the end? Not that many people did go vote for Vega.

20 (41m 39s):
Krasner has just declared victory. Here are the latest results. Krasner leading challenger of Carlos Vega with 64% of the vote

2 (41m 46s):
Krasner won the democratic primary, which in Philadelphia is the only race that really matters. He won big with the middle-class Progressive's that help propel him to office. The first time we in this movie

10 (41m 58s):
For criminal justice reform, just one, a big one

2 (42m 5s):
And just like in his first election Krasner also won handily with voters in the city's black neighborhoods with the residents most effected by gun violence and by the excesses of the criminal justice system, the Krasner coalition held and Nikisha stuck with him too. Even as she grieved the loss of her son,

3 (42m 24s):
I have to still stand on civil rights and not just my own personal plight, retired of our families being dismantled by the justice system.

29 (42m 38s):
I'm really impressed with their ability to think about broader system in light of what happened. How do you think you were able to do that?

3 (42m 46s):
I don't know. I'm a mom, I'm a mom and my nurturing and love doesn't just end with just my children

2 (42m 60s):
In the end Nikisha and many others in Philly. Didn't see the DA's race as a choice between reforming the criminal justice system or stemming the rise in gun violence. They bought into the pitch that Krasner and other progressive candidates across the country are making that draconian prison sentences and overly aggressive policing are both unethical and unhelpful and reducing violent crime. And that getting at the root cause of the violence requires investment in longer-term strategies, opening more rec centers, improving schools and creating good jobs. But so far this year Philly's been kind of an outlier.

15 (43m 37s):
The associated press projects, Eric Adams, as the winner of the democratic primary and the race for New York city mayor. And that means

2 (43m 44s):
New York city went to the polls to pick its democratic nominee for mayor. Last month, Eric Adams is a former cop campaign and stop stopping gun crime.

30 (43m 53s):
For 22 years, I wore a Bulletproof vest and stood on the street corners and protected children and families in the city of New York.

2 (44m 2s):
Adam speed out a bunch of progressive candidates. Larry Krasner types.

15 (44m 5s):
You yourself has said you're the new face of the democratic party. Explain that

30 (44m 9s):
Because we have abandoned our cities and you're seeing the democratic party. Basically they've thrown up their hands and we're continuing to see the same problems in our inner cities. We need to turn it around

2 (44m 22s):
And it's not just New York and Los Angeles county residents are gathering signatures to try and recall the progressive da there in Atlanta. The mayor abruptly decided not to seek reelection last spring. She'd have been taking heat for presiding over a sharp spike in crime as well.

1 (44m 38s):
Hm. So it seems like we're in this difficult moment. On the one hand, from what you've been telling us, the roots of the surgeon violence over the last 18 months is not as simple as like one program that got canceled or, or one policy that got changed. It's the pandemic and the protests and the police, and probably other things on top of that. And in Philly, at least people are not convinced that they should react to all that by ditching criminal justice reform. But structural change takes a long time and this problem is affecting people's lives right now. Are there solutions that could help in the short term?

2 (45m 17s):
It's hard. These cycles of retaliation are really tough to break, but a lot of people are now trying to figure this out. There's been a growing recognition that something changed for the worst over the last year, beyond the root cause problems that have existed for a long time. People see that stopping the bleeding requires acknowledging that and rebuilding the social connections that rupture during the last 18 months, you can see this new focus in Philadelphia, where leaders are pouring money into anti-violence programs, over a hundred million dollars and Phillies doubling down on that program. We heard about in the previous episode, the one that targets government resources to those most likely to shoot or be shot.

2 (45m 56s):
This kind of spending is gaining steam on the national level too.

31 (45m 59s):
He said, he's experienced an increase in gun violence. We're able to use the American rescue plan dollars to hire police officers needed for community policing and to pay their overtime.

2 (46m 9s):
We know this stuff can work because it's worked before it just going to take a lot of money and time and effort. It's the sort of effort Tiffany Rudolph knows all too well.

6 (46m 22s):
I don't know. Like I just want to give my life

2 (46m 25s):
Vague. Tiffany is doing much better than she was last winter. But when we last met up, she told while she was exhausted.

6 (46m 31s):
Okay, I'm going to tell you why I was up until six o'clock in the morning. I was on the phone, talking someone out of shooting someone like I like, and that's not the first time I did that. Like, I actually do this,

1 (46m 46s):
The situation,

6 (46m 48s):
I guess the guy killed someone we know, and my friend found out and he was looking for retaliation. I understood him 100%. However, I don't have time for you either getting shot back at and dying or getting a case. And now you have to go to jail.

1 (47m 11s):
He

6 (47m 11s):
Heard you, you better hurry. Me. His mom was there too. He gave his mom the gun. So I like, that's what made me like, well, it felt okay with hanging up the phone. Like I just didn't feel comfortable hanging up the phone until I know he understood me, but he passed the gun to his mother. I felt comfortable enough to get off the phone with him. And to know that he's not going to go out here and do anything crazy.

2 (47m 41s):
Tiffany we'll take her wins where she can get them. She stopped a shooting. It was a small victory, but she can't keep staying up all night. She can only do it. Her,

1 (48m 3s):
We made these two episodes on the great regression in collaboration with Alec McGillis and ProPublica. You can find Alex written piece@propublica.org. Just look for his byline. Alec had production and reporting help from today. Explains Jillian Weinberger and miles. Brian editing from Matthew collect and Nick Varsha cover fact-checking by Laura Bullard engineering from a FEMA Shapiro and Hannis brown special. Thanks to Thomas apt, Catarina, Roman, Liz Kelly Nelson and Lauren Katz. We have music from Breakmaster cylinder and know I'm Hassenfeld today explained as part of the Vox media podcast network.