3 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from the quip electric toothbrush. I told you about it recently but it's worth reminding you that equip will now reward you for doing a good job of brushing your teeth. You can start getting rewards for brushing your teeth today by going to get clipped dot-coms. I explained it right now and your first refill is free at get clip.com / explain. That is g ET Q UI p.com / explained clip better oral health made simple and rewarding Google's free tools are designed to help millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working. And right. Now these businesses could use our help support.

3 (41s):
The place is near you by booking an appointment buying a gift card reading review more ordering takeout all With a Little Help from

4 (48s):
Google. On Thursday Vice President Biden held a town hall as scheduled on ABC at the same time NBC laid a thirst trap for President Trump won Town Hall was a thoughtful cogent discussion of the issues facing our country. The other featured President Trump. We now present a rebroadcast of those Town Hall the way most Americans watch them flipping back and forth trying to decide between a Hallmark movie and an alien autopsy. This is Doolin townhouse.

4 (1m 31s):
This is how this weekend's episode of Saturday Night Live kicked off because it's now two weeks away from the election to show seem to have no choice, but to

3 (1m 39s):
satirize the biggest televised political events of last week Biden's town hall with Jim Carrey's already stale Joe Biden impression and that brings us to

4 (1m 51s):
1939 A year

2 (1m 55s):
when I went to the World's

4 (1m 56s):
Fair and met the real Mickey

3 (1m 58s):
Mouse. And Trump's town hall with Alec Baldwin's rancid

4 (2m 4s):
take on Donald Trump. And that's why that's why we're gonna have a

3 (2m 8s):
v-shaped recovery a deep V

4 (2m 11s):
with Rippling pecs and atoned 8-pack a swimmer's body basically like I have after covid

3 (2m 16s):
and it's gonna be beautiful if the amount of live studio audience laughter is any barometer the cold open was the latest in a long line of failed attempts to try and make something very serious. And scary funny for four years now late night television has been trying to make fun of a presidency that already feels like an onion headline presidency that makes onion headlines a reality back in March of this year the onion published a satirical article titled man. Just buying one of every cleaning product in case Trump announces its coronavirus cure and just one month later,

4 (2m 55s):
right and then I see the disinfectant but knocks it out. In a minute one minute and is there a way we can do something like that by injection inside or or almost a cleaning?

3 (3m 10s):
It's really hard to satirize something that already feels like satire, but that doesn't stop TV from trying and failing.

1 (3m 19s):
I think that comedy especially in the United States has a tendency to treat the world as having a sort of status quo or sort of stability that can always be returned to Donald Trump inherently up and

3 (3m 31s):
step Emily vanderwerff is the critic at large for Vox.

1 (3m 35s):
He is this like thing that points out a lot of flaws in our underlying ways. We think about comedy and in order to like make comedy better in the Trump list future whenever that arrives we have to really grapple with the ways that he points out flaws in sort of our system of Court Jesters if you will, Our political comedy has a tendency just like our political journalism to be like, well, you know both sides do it. Both sides are equally at fault, but he puts a magnifying glass on the American presidency and the problems of sort of American Empire both domestically and globally in a way that like

4 (4m 20s):
makes us uncomfortable. Mr. President. I'm heading home for the night. Can I get you anything? No. Thank you, David. But hey, hey. I like working at the White House are your parents proud? I tell them I work at Applebee's. But one more thing, you know, I love my daughter Ivanka and her husband Jared they always keep me so calm and make sure I don't do anything too crazy. That's true, sir. So quick question. Are they gone? Yes, they don't work on Shabbat. Perfect. When the Jews are away the boys would play sending Steve Banning in America political humor is no we do impressions of powerful people and like there's no real underlying

1 (5m 5s):
substance. But Donald Trump's Ridiculousness is so over and on its face that a lot more people than normally would be are tuned into the ways that his administration is either uniquely terrible or terrible in a way that continues policies that they might not have agreed with but were easier to ignore when somebody who was less overtly ridiculous with standing behind the podium. So you create this situation in which the only way to satirize him is sort of to satirize America and that's a lot harder to do because cuz you know, why is it that we're only mad about a thing when Donald Trump is doing it. / why is it so hard for us to tell compelling humor about the fact that this man let a pandemic get out of control and then got sick with it

3 (5m 53s):
himself, right? And that was the week the nation's quintessential variety show came back from a summer break and seemed to struggle with how to approach the humor in this sort of insane

4 (6m 5s):
situation. On a okay serious voice while in the hospital the president isn't allowed to see any guests but he is expected to be visited by three ghosts. Probably one from this past one from his who? Okay. Look this is weird because a

1 (6m 22s):
lot of people think the biggest risk you make is you don't have a comedic point of view like comedy needs a point of view. One of the things I think SNL really struggles with is Lorne Michaels famously is like we are making this for republicans and Democrats. We are making this for Etc. Cetera and like I honestly think that's fine. If you are in a world where America is not as polarized as it is right now, but if you're trying to occupy some sort of nebulous middle you end up trying to appeal to everyone in a way that just doesn't like work for anyone but you do that for four years every other Saturday night or whatever it is. I think they do 28:20 episodes season, it gets it gets wearing. It wears you down.

1 (7m 3s):
It's just like there's nothing more there.

3 (7m 6s):
Does anyone like SNL's Trump work does anyone appreciate Alec Baldwin's impression of Donald Trump and and is not why do they keep doing it?

1 (7m 16s):
Alec Baldwin won an Emmy for playing Donald Trump.

4 (7m 21s):
I suppose I should say at long last. Mr. President. Here is your enemy. So it works, but certainly not for everyone certainly not for

3 (7m 32s):
you. I assume based on an article you wrote earlier this month that argued Saturday Night Live is woefully unequipped for the Trump era

1 (7m 40s):
SNL just if the problem is it has to be made so quickly and on such a tight time scale that makes it almost impossible for it to do anything besides choose the most obvious impersonation of a president. You know, George w-- Bush is kind of an

4 (7m 53s):
idiot. Let me make something very clear. There was utterly no legal. Or military justification for this track Bill Clinton is horny Glutton, and I actually did all that. I mean I didn't Obama is kind of a boring technocrat now. I know I'm not perfect. I'm distant. I'm aloof like the that's what SNL

1 (8m 19s):
settle down for all of those people and then just over eight years. It just kept playing that basic note and I actually think that one thing that has been worse in the Trump era is SNL has now almost exclusively turned over Washington Power Player Impressions to celebrities and celebrities are rarely as good at building out these characters as say, you know, imagine that Darrell Hammond ends use yeah, Darrell Hammond used to do Trump. He used to be their go-to for Trump.

4 (8m 47s):
Most of you know, who I am already because I'm rich and I'm handsome if you're a man you want my life if you're a woman. Well I've got You want okay, they replaced him with

1 (9m 1s):
Baldwin. But like he's a master impressionist. Like he would have been so much better in that

3 (9m 7s):
role. Right and part of the issue would Trump compared to all those other guys is that he's just constantly everywhere on Twitter on TV on the radio on podcast. We don't need to hear or see more Trump,

1 (9m 21s):
right? And I think that is the thing that everyone who's trying to make fun of trump has to bump up against eventually where I think SNL has uniquely failed compared to some other programs say is it has never come up with anything to say about the circus surrounding Trump the Ridiculousness of trump makes them hard to make fun of but that should be send you looking for other targets not just being like, oh he shouts a lot and he has a big New York accent and he wears a lot of Tanner and he kind of has a pout. So yeah for quite a while there Alec Baldwin was being treated as like a hero the Second Amendment. Could Revolution or something and that's just not the case anymore?

1 (10m 3s):
But like there is this weird reflex in the American Media to be like well, let's see what SNL had to say about it and yet the new cycle moves so quickly now that SNL is almost an afterthought yet. We keep treating it like this thing that is trenchant.

3 (10m 18s):
Emily what's like the funniest political television you've seen during the Trump presidency do you recall?

1 (10m 27s):
My long silence should be my answer. I I will say this. I don't think this was a great television show, but I think it was a fascinating television show and I think it had more to say about our times than just about any other satire. And I think that is the The Comedy Central program the president show which starred this guy who does an amazing impression of

4 (10m 52s):
trump certain people are saying you are mentally unfit for the office and we both know. That's not true. I'm incredibly mentally

1 (10m 59s):
the my doctor said I had the most neurons of any person he had ever met.

4 (11m 4s):
I wish I had so many neurons

1 (11m 6s):
and the basic idea of it was he was playing Donald Trump and it was kind of a sketch comedy show but it was so smart about the ways that Donald Trump is not just Suli generous like he he came from somewhere. There is a reason he exists and like there is this tendency to treat Donald Trump as an aberration. I think by all specially by a lot of political satirists and the president showed never did that that the final moment of its Christmas special which I believe was its final episode ever was everybody in the Trump Administration singing wise up from the film Magnolia.

4 (11m 52s):
When you first

1 (11m 57s):
but then it expanded to be like, oh, here's the Democrats from this year's other people singing this year's I that's just like it's all part of this broken system that nobody really wants to fix because the power within it is so entrenched and like that show was the only show that really tried to make that

4 (12m 13s):
point. so now Might be the president show anything

3 (12m 46s):
else that works for you. We got a shout out Last Week Tonight with John Oliver and people seem to really love Colbert. Right?

1 (12m 53s):
His jokes are very catered toward I guess I'd say your Rich aunt who's like really involved in like certain political issues its broad humor, but it definitely has a point of view of Donald Trump is ridiculous. And especially in quarantine. Colbert has been really good like he's gone back to his old. Offices and he's performing for in essence his family and his closest friends were

2 (13m 19s):
facing a global pandemic that is killed a hundred and eighty thousand American heavily-armed Rambo wannabes are murdering people in our streets the strongest hurricane in the history of the Gulf Coast is making landfall as I speak and the rnc's messages. Who's up for four more years.

1 (13m 39s):
I think Seth Meyers on NBC's always good. He's a little bit closer to the old Jon Stewart. Pain of you know, we're going to talk about the issues of the day. We're going to make jokes about them. And I think he's also really smart about bringing in voices other than the traditional white guy who makes jokes about the news

2 (13m 56s):
Amber. Do you think Trump was mad when he saw that written on the street? He doesn't know how to read he thinks it says Blake Lively matters and he loves it, but I

1 (14m 6s):
don't think TV is the place to find political humor.

3 (14m 9s):
What is I have just

1 (14m 11s):
been so Word with this this Twitter comedian. Her name is Kylie Brakeman. And she makes these videos that are basically just like taking various types that live in our political landscape and like I think she's so smart about using the tools of Twitter which is kind of the best place for political humor right now because it's the only thing that moves as fast as the news cycle, I think because often good political satire comes from people, who are I have something to prove and have nothing to lose the internet's where those people are.

3 (14m 58s):
after the break Kylie

4 (14m 60s):
Brakeman It's today explained.

3 (15m 17s):
This episode of today explained is brought to you by a vast a global leader in cybersecurity. When you move across the internet, you leave digital breadcrumbs behind you valuable information on things like your location health and finances data Brokers can sell this information to third parties, which can have serious consequences of asked breach guard

1 (15m 38s):
automatically scans the

3 (15m 39s):
web for your data and get your data back from broker databases. So third parties can't take advantage of asked also alerts.

4 (15m 46s):
If your

3 (15m 46s):
passwords have been leaked, so you stay protected from all sides with our digital Footprints growing bigger every day. It's important to have backup to help keep us safe joint over 435 million users who trust a vast to keep them private and protected online. Don't worry about viruses phishing attacks ransomware hacking attempts or cyber crime because Avast has your back learn more about avast's privacy security and performance

4 (16m 13s):
product at a vast.com.

3 (16m 20s):
Support for the show today comes from the Farrah gun. It's a handheld percussive therapy device that releases your deepest muscle tension using a calibrated combination of depth speed and power and now it's as quiet as an electric toothbrush. Yes an electric toothbrush. That's because the all-new Jenn for their gun has proprietary brushless motor. That's so quiet. You'll wonder if it's even on while you soothe your aching muscles with their guns signature power. Amplitude and Effectiveness. You can try that their gun risk free for 30 days right now and just know that there is no substitute for the Thera gun Gen4 with its OLED screen.

3 (17m 1s):
It's personalized they're gonna nap and the quiet power you need starting at only 199 dollars Bob go to therapy on.com slash explained right now and get your gen forth their gun today that is there a gun dot coms explained. tarragon.com / explained

2 (17m 31s):
I'm Kylee Brakeman. I am a comedian and writer and actor

3 (17m 37s):
Kylie as you'll remember from before the break was Emily's example of someone who's doing a better political comedy right now all by yourself for the

2 (17m 46s):
internet. I guess I went viral. I guess I'm a viral sensation. I I don't know. I just started making front-facing videos in my room and I never expected them to Super take off. I was just sort of To prove that I was doing something creative during this time. Hello. My name is Suburban housewife. My bio is seven random nouns and I for one will be voting for Trump. It's your phone on reverse mode. It's your phone on selfie mode. The people who are saying that we can't reopen schools are ignoring a very real problem and that problem is that my children axle and McKenna Brooklyn are bored and it is a low production value character video that you shoot yourself. And for some reason that's all people click on now.

2 (18m 28s):
My name's covid-19. I'm a little stinker me being in the president. It's just another one of my classic little pranks. I'm like the jokester of my friend group. I'm like always doing like hilarious gags people kind of want something that's like immediate right now. They want something that's like, oh, it's your friend on FaceTime like they like and I get it. I don't even want to watch a show. It's too much work but watching like a one-minute bit from someone is just so much more digestible when everyone's like emotionally traumatized.

3 (18m 57s):
So once you hack this and figure out that this is a Actually the kind of stuff people want. What do you decide to add to the conversation? What do you do?

2 (19m 4s):
I guess the character I sort of keep coming back to that is recurring and I do a lot of stuff but like it's the thing I jump to First and improv scenes, which is just like very clueless liberal self-important white woman wakey wakey eggs and drinky everything happens for a Riesling and that's why your slumped over a patio chair treat yourself to a glass of mom back. I First went viral with this video why I won't wear a mask. I can't breathe in this thing because every time I put it on I hold my breath on purpose so difficult to put on like I can't put it on because I'm using one hand to hold the camera and it was just kind of this like waspy Orange County lady talking about all the different reasons for why she can't wear her mask and they were just absurd heightened versions.

2 (19m 53s):
Like how do I know that this isn't full of spiders? There is no way for me to check. I was diagnosed with a fake disease called spider blindness where I can only see spiders if it benefits me politically. I was just inspired by the absurdity of why someone would even think to not wear one or two think that it was bad to wear one. It's such a small inconvenience that I could not conceive of a logical reason for why and I think that's why it may be did so well, where did you post it? I posted on Twitter and Instagram and Tick Tock but it ER is where most of my jam is.

3 (20m 33s):
Well, what kind of response is did you get on

2 (20m 34s):
Twitter? I got a lot. I mean a lot of it was supportive and then a lot of it was like people who were Pro mask but didn't realize I was joking which is scary in itself. Either people cannot digest media anymore or people have gotten so crazy that like an obvious parody looks like truth, but I got some like death threats from those people my first death threat ever. It was very

3 (20m 59s):
fun. Just to be clear here the mask wearing presumably liberals out. There were said to you death

2 (21m 5s):
threats. Yes, because they couldn't tell I got a few anti-mask conspiracy people who were like the oxygen molecules are too big to fit through the mask like in the comments, but most of it was like liberals who are like how dare you not wear your masks in the CBS and I get it, but also, come on guys. Let's just Just let's evaluate media a little bit how

3 (21m 32s):
refreshing to be hated by both sides.

2 (21m 35s):
I didn't set out to be like, I'm gonna trash liberals today. I'm a both sides comedian and I think it resonated with people who are also online for 10 hours a day.

3 (21m 46s):
Where do you go after that?

2 (21m 47s):
Well, then I had to go after the trunk Bots. Hello. My name is proud American. My job is America and my husband is a gun. Good afternoon. I am a stock photo of a person of color and I for one do not think His racist who were you know, it's just the Classic person. Who's like hello. My name is former Democrat Maga mom. My hobbies are being real and my interests are breathing. I for one will not be supporting the NBA. I've tweeted this a hundred and twenty-six times. I am an eagle wearing a hat just like these completely fake sounding people who tweet the same thing 1200 times a day and there's so many fake accounts out there. So I was just kind of making fun of that in a very heightened version and that took off pretty well as

3 (22m 29s):
Well, it's really interesting. So pre-pandemic you're like this UCB improv theater comedian pandemic happens. You start cranking out these more political videos on social media and now you've got what like over a hundred thousand people telling you to keep going to make more of it. Do you consider yourself? Like a political comedian now three months after posting your first big video.

2 (22m 53s):
Well, I would say I like I enjoyed doing it. I think that I do have a voice for It and so it is fun to like occupy a role that I don't know if I see always but I it is it's crazy to be recognized as like a legitimate form of anything because I'm truly just on selfie mode. I mean I'm in I'm shooting in 4k, but it is still selfie

3 (23m 17s):
mode that being said, I'm curious like because you have found the success on your own do those sort of more traditional or perhaps outdated form. Of successful appeal like do you still want a big job on a late-night comedy show does that kind of visibility still means something when you have your own online?

2 (23m 40s):
I mean, of course, I think I I always want to be you know validated in the industry. I want to go into and just by doing this alone. I've gotten some pretty big interviews, which was like really surprising and cool and I think it is just about maybe if I were to be in that position like shifting Narrative a little bit not playing it so safe. I think it it is a thing of oh, I can't blame it on my team of writers or my producers every dumb thing. I say is from my own dumb brain and I have to take responsibility for that. But I think it is important to just own up if you make a mistake and if you say something slightly off or if something you never even intended or something that could possibly be construed some way.

2 (24m 28s):
It doesn't matter. Or how you intended it it matters how it was received and I think I'm just going to try and remember that if it ever happens,

4 (24m 37s):
you can just get cancelled now and then move on, you know, we should just cancel you right now on the show. I should get cancelled really early so that I can go on an apology tour that will get me attention you canceled. Thank you truly. Thank you so much. So welcome. Kylie I really appreciate your time. Thanks. Of course. Thank you for having me.

3 (25m 6s):
Kylie Brakeman is on the

4 (25m 8s):
internet her

3 (25m 9s):
handle is dead. I Brakeman all one word Deadeye Brakeman Brakeman is kind of like pump the brakes man. It looks like that if that makes sense. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today explained and I just want to make sure your takeaway from today's episode. Isn't that you know impressions are bad. I love Impressions. It's just that Alec Baldwin's impression isn't very good. Just today my brother sent me a trump impression from a comedian named. James Austin Johnson that had me near tears for some hilarious reason. I haven't figured out yet. It's an impression of Donald Trump talking about Weird Al Yankovic.

4 (25m 51s):
Enjoy.

3 (25m 57s):
Folks we love with a gown. We love Weird Al

4 (26m 0s):
Yankovic. Wait, Alan American original. He's got more money than sin

3 (26m 7s):
more money is probably I don't know if maybe he's got more money than me. I don't know if he's got more money than me, but he's got a lot of it. He's got a lot of

1 (26m 15s):
spunk and he's got a lot of

4 (26m 16s):
talent. I've never seen anybody who gets famous playing accordion. I just don't see I just don't see it. Who's who's

3 (26m 25s):
Dewey accordion and that we don't even know how it works science doesn't even know where it way. She gets the piano and he just he squeezes it and then sounds really crazy

1 (26m 35s):
and weird out figured it out. God blessing.

3 (26m 38s):
We think it's great that we'd have figured out that accordion. I don't even know how they did. We don't even know where we did doesn't need

4 (26m 44s):
batteries. We'll never know. We'll never know in science doesn't know but we had our was very mean to Coolio not very

3 (26m 51s):
nice. Coolio was very upset with mr. Whittendale. He didn't do it and ask for the rights. He just went and did Amish Paradise and he just didn't even ask for the ride. You didn't even ask Nora when he did Gangsta's Paradise. He had such a big hit with Gangster Gangsta's Paradise. And you

4 (27m 11s):
know where the Amish Paradise the he what they do is they take the music and they steal the whole thing. They just steal the music and they write a new words and it's a new song and everyone goes. Oh, it's so great. The your rights new wigs do it inside lay. It's funny best

3 (27m 27s):
comedy album. It'll never get best music never get best album breakout star will never do it

4 (27m 33s):
the liver get it to him. No CMAs

3 (27m 35s):
nothing. But people buy it they like it because it's a good product and we'll I would Weird Al does you know with Hal as Originals Night Santa Went Crazy

4 (27m 46s):
Albuquerque, but they'll never liked it as much as white and

3 (27m 49s):
nerdy. He was very mean to mr. Chamillionaire and Will never like The Originals quite as much as a parodies. We like the parity so much. He does such a good job with really really good job. EBay Backstreet Boys, you know, he did eBay years after we'd totally forget they come out with eBay. And I had totally forgotten who of the Backstreet Boys I don't even know but we had an incredible conversation with Luke

4 (28m 19s):
HBO Max brings all of HBO to your fingertips plus an epic lists of new Max Originals, whether you're into animation classic movies or binge worthy series HBO Max has suggested collections are curated by real humans not robots. So you find the right thing to watch every time with thousands of options for you and the family to choose from It's the streaming platform of your dreams. HBO Max or HBO beats so much more start streaming now at HBO Max.com

3 (28m 54s):
all world-changing

4 (28m 55s):
Innovation starts with Trail Blazers people with ideas just

1 (28m 59s):
crazy enough to work go deeper into the history and exciting future of Industry disruptions that shape

4 (29m 5s):
our lives in unexpected ways with the Trailblazers podcast from Dell Technologies,

1 (29m 9s):
best-selling author Walter Isaacson along with

4 (29m 12s):
extraordinary guests will explore the people and Tech that are moving us forward. Listen to Trailblazers, wherever you get your podcast or at Dell Technologies.com Trailblazers. Yes.