0 (0s):
Welcome back to today. Explain to kids this one's for the children, adults. If you're around break out the earmuffs, I'm gonna hand it off to producers, Kiara and Sarah, who may just be heading back to our favorite island,

KiwiCo (18s):
Looking for a great way to keep your kids engaged this summer. One that doesn't rhyme with pie PADD or met slicks. Then check out Kiwi CO's huge selection of art, science and technology projects. Kiwi co delivers monthly interactive crates that encourage kids of all ages to explore, learn, and grow each one ships with instructions and all the materials your kids need to start building. Right now, you can get an exclusive Kiwi co and V bundle perfectly designed to fill your kids' summer downtime with discovery. Get 50% off your first month on any subscription line with code V 50 at Kiwi co.com/whoa,

1 (1m 3s):
Whoa, whoa. Let's try something a little different today. Ashley, Sarah, you there. Hey Kiara, come on in. I'm almost done making this guacamole for Izzy's party. Did you read the part about bringing a vegan snack? Yeah. Guacamole is all fruits and veggies, so it's totally vegan.

1 (1m 45s):
Nothing comes from animals. What are you bringing? Well, that's the thing I wanted to bring my all time. Favorite signature dish, my meat lovers, nachos. I mean they have everything. Gooey cheese, crispy chips, steak and sausage and the world's best sour cream Stop. I am drooling. Well, I have to stop cuz it turns out that almost nothing about that is vegan. Not the cheese, not the sausage, not the steak, not the world's best sour cream. They all come from animals. So what I'm left with is chips.

1 (2m 26s):
Ah, well, what if we went to the island of explained again, is he told me they actually have a whole vegan community out there. Maybe we could find a recipe. That's not a bad idea. Do you know where the nearest portal is? Sure. I actually set one up near my computer. It is way more fun than looking stuff up. Wow. This farm is huge. Look at all those crops. And what is this giant tree?

4 (3m 6s):
Oh, it's a bean stock actually

3 (3m 8s):
Like the fairytale.

4 (3m 10s):
Yeah, exactly. Like the fairytale. And I think this is the plant based farming community that Izzy was talking about. They're at the base of this giant plant. So they're called plant base.

3 (3m 21s):
Very literal. Nice. So should we talk to someone?

4 (3m 26s):
All world farmers look pretty busy, but Izzy told me that if I ever came to visit, I should go up the Beanstalk to talk to beans.

3 (3m 33s):
Who or what is beans are beans?

4 (3m 38s):
I don't know. I guess we'll find out.

3 (3m 40s):
Do we have to climb all the way up? That's a long way.

4 (3m 45s):
Not look. There's an elevator.

3 (3m 54s):
This elevator moves fast. Oh my gosh. My ears are popping. Oh wow.

4 (4m 4s):
We are literally in the clouds right now.

3 (4m 8s):
Can I really walk on them?

4 (4m 10s):
I mean, I'm not falling through.

3 (4m 17s):
Oh my gosh. What's that

7 (4m 21s):
V five thumb.

3 (4m 25s):
Hello? We're looking for beans.

7 (4m 30s):
Yes. That's me. I'm beans. This is my stock.

3 (4m 34s):
Okay, well hi, I'm Kiara.

4 (4m 38s):
Hi, Mr.

7 (4m 42s):
Beans is my father. Just beans is fine. Nice to eat you. Oh, I mean meet you. Sorry. Force of habit. What can I do for you?

3 (4m 53s):
Well, someone told us you were a good person to ask about plant based eating.

7 (4m 59s):
Oh, that's my all time. Favorite subject. Let me sit down so I can see you better. Do you have time to hear a story?

3 (5m 10s):
Sure.

7 (5m 11s):
Great. Settle in and get comfortable. You comfortable.

4 (5m 15s):
It is like resting on clouds.

7 (5m 18s):
Good. So my story starts when I was a tiny baby giant. Only about the size of two houses stacked on top of each other. Even at that PIP squeak size, I was eating people whole. I loved the taste of people

3 (5m 37s):
Feeling a little less comfortable. Now

7 (5m 41s):
I loved their yummy little bones and especially their feet, feet are the most delicious part of a person.

3 (5m 49s):
Okay. Feeling a lot less comfortable.

7 (5m 53s):
I got very big and very strong eating lots of humans. But then one day around the time that I was the size of an apartment building a human named Jack climbed up my stock. It was right after I just had a big meal. So I was two full to eat him right away. And he explained that I was actually making a lot of people. Very, very unhappy. It turns out that people don't like it when you eat their feet or really any part of them, it was very surprising.

3 (6m 26s):
Mm. Yeah. Shocking.

7 (6m 29s):
Everything Jack said got me thinking maybe I didn't have to eat humans. Maybe I could eat other animals like cows and goats and chickens that made Jack very happy. And he said that the people of plant base would raise some animals to feed me.

4 (6m 48s):
That's nice of them.

7 (6m 50s):
So that worked for a bit. But then I started thinking again, even though these cows and goats and pigs can't talk like Jack can, maybe they don't like being eaten either. I told Jack how I felt and we agreed. It would be best if I stopped eating animals.

3 (7m 11s):
So then what did you eat

7 (7m 14s):
Plants? So instead of growing food to feed animals and raising those animals to feed me, the farmers begin to use their land in a different way. They started growing plants to feed directly to me.

3 (7m 28s):
And you can really survive on just plants.

7 (7m 32s):
Oh yes. There's so many different kinds. Carrots and pears, sweet potatoes and beets, oats and lentils. Mm I'm getting hungry, just thinking about it. And there's another good reason I stopped eating animals, the burps and farts,

4 (7m 56s):
Excuse me, burps and farts.

7 (7m 59s):
Yes. Burbs and farts. You see, it turns out that cows burp and fart a lot and their burbs and farts contain methane, which is very bad for the planet. It goes into the atmosphere and traps, lots of heat, more heat than we can handle. And that can throw the balance of nature out of whack. So because the people of plant-based were raising so many cows to feed me. That meant that all those cows were wandering around for years, burping and farting and farting and burping, which was very bad for the island of explained.

3 (8m 36s):
Whoa. So hold on. You realized animals might not like being eaten. And then you learned about the burbs and farts and you figured it would just be easier to eat plants.

7 (8m 51s):
Exactly. If I stopped eating meat or drinking milk or eating cheese, it would make things a lot easier for the planet,

3 (9m 0s):
Huh? Well, I'm not a giant like you, but I do eat meat a lot and I love milk and butter. Is that bad? Should I stop?

7 (9m 10s):
You can stop if you want to. But even just eating less meat or fewer dairy products can make a giant difference. Giant, get it.

3 (9m 21s):
Ah,

7 (9m 23s):
If a lot of people change what they do, it adds up.

3 (9m 26s):
Okay. Got it. But now I kind of want to try eating more plant-based food. I just, my main issue is that I love food with meat and dairy in it. Like my signature meat lover Sinatra's dish is full of both. And this is what I'm struggling with. I'm supposed to bring a vegan dish to my friend Izzy's party. And I don't know how to replace this dish. I love with something else.

7 (9m 52s):
Well, you should talk to the best cook. I know which,

4 (9m 59s):
Which what

7 (10m 1s):
No know her name is which she also used to eat people and especially children, but after the whole situation with Hansel and GLE, we set her down and showed her the error of her ways. And now she's turned her gingerbread house into a vegan kitchen at the very edge of the village of plant base here. Let me carry it down there. Hop into my hands.

3 (10m 27s):
I

4 (10m 29s):
Here goes nothing. I guess,

7 (10m 33s):
Fee five. Oh foam eating. People's really dumb. I used to grind their bones for bread. Now I'm grinding wheat. Instead fee five, full thumb eating. People's really dumb. I used to grind their bones for bread and now I'm grinding.

KiwiCo (10m 51s):
Hey parents, if you're looking for a way to keep your kids engaged. After this episode is done. Kiwi co has a crate, a crate to go with today's show all about plant based foods. With the kitchen scrap planter project, your kids will be able to make creative use of food waste while getting hands on experience with growing food and eating green, you can watch your veggies grow up to the sun. The roots reach down for the water. The crate comes with everything you need to start growing and learning except the onion peels and the pepper stems that's on you. Kiwi code delivers science and art projects that turn curiosity into creativity from harnessing the power of the sun to exploring biodiversity in your backyard. Get the exclusive Kiwi co Vox bundle. So kids can work on crate to pair with all four new episodes of season two of today. Explain to kids plus today. Explain to kids. Listeners can get 50% off your first month on any monthly subscription line with code V 50 Kiwi code.com/box. That's 50% off your first month@kiwic.com slash V. And use the promo code V X five.

3 (12m 23s):
Looks like we're at the gingerbread house. Should we knock?

4 (12m 26s):
I'm a little nervous.

3 (12m 28s):
Come on. This place looks great. Look at all the gum drops and candy decorations. It's super friendly.

4 (12m 36s):
Yeah. That's what Hansel and Gretel thought. And then the witch literally tried to turn them into dinner.

9 (12m 45s):
Hello?

3 (12m 46s):
Oh, hi. I'm Kiara

4 (12m 48s):
Sarah.

9 (12m 49s):
Hi Helen. But my friends call me witch. Welcome to the gingerbread house. How can I help you?

3 (12m 56s):
I'm trying to figure out a plant-based dish. I can bring to my friend's party tonight.

9 (13m 1s):
Oh, then you've come to the perfect place. Come in, come in,

10 (13m 8s):
See lots of kids here. Maybe she is saving them as a snack for later.

9 (13m 14s):
As you can see, this is our test kitchen. All the kids in the community come here to work on their favorite plant based and vegan recipes. Everyone come here. Tell our guests what your favorite is.

11 (13m 28s):
My favorite dish that is vegan is popcorn. Spiced, apples, garlic pita chips, dipped in hummus tacos with cauliflower lemon, grass Curry, with noodles, salads, and fruits and ACOs B food sticks because, well, they're good. It's a great alternative to chicken. You can dip them and catch up or a barbecue stuff. They taste a little bit like chicken and you can make them yourself. And they're really good with rice and rice.

3 (14m 1s):
Wow. All these dishes look amazing.

9 (14m 4s):
Did you wanna make one and take it to your potty?

3 (14m 7s):
I guess I'm just, I'm sad because I have this one signature dish that I always bring. It's so good. Nachos with cheesy cheese sour cream bits of steak and sausage,

9 (14m 22s):
Hey, you could make a vegan version of your signature nachos.

3 (14m 26s):
We could do that.

9 (14m 28s):
Sure. Let's see. Spa SPU. Well start with some chips. Same as you used to. And a little Shaza Satan. We call this wheat meat it's made from gluten. We'll use this to replace the ground beef. Then Misco soy chorizo. That takes care of the sausage bits. And Hmm, what else?

3 (14m 56s):
There's the cheese and the sour cream.

9 (14m 58s):
Let's try this. Abra. Cadabra. Cashew will blend those nuts up with a couple other things. And there's you have vegan sour cream. And let me just poke around in the fridge here.

3 (15m 13s):
What are you looking for? Ah,

9 (15m 16s):
I knew I had a bag of vegan. She cheese. This kind is made with coconut oil tofu and a few more ingredients. Let's give it a little zap to heat it up, make it nice and melty. That should do it.

3 (15m 31s):
Wait a second. Did you actually need magic to make any of that stuff appear?

9 (15m 38s):
Nah, a lot of grocery stores have vegan substitutes now, but I just thought it'd be more entertaining this way.

3 (15m 44s):
It

9 (15m 44s):
Was well, give it a taste.

3 (15m 51s):
Wow. Wow. Taste pretty similar to the original. That's incredible.

9 (15m 57s):
That's delicious. Well, don't eat it all here. You said you needed this dish for a potty, right?

3 (16m 4s):
Good point, Sarah. We should probably get going.

9 (16m 6s):
There's a portal right out, outside underneath the red gum drop.

3 (16m 12s):
Thanks for all your help.

12 (16m 24s):
Hey, you two finally made it. What took you so long?

3 (16m 27s):
Hi Izzy. Sorry. I had to get my vegan dish together. My GU up only was already good to go.

12 (16m 34s):
What do you mean you had to

3 (16m 36s):
Isn't this party fully vegan. I thought the invitation said to bring a vegan snack.

12 (16m 41s):
Oh no. I meant like if you had a vegan snack, that would be great. But I just, I wanted to make sure that there were vegan options available, but it wasn't like mandatory.

3 (16m 50s):
Oh.

12 (16m 51s):
But I really appreciate the effort. I mean, I love to skip meat whenever I can. It's such a small thing I can do to help out the planet. Anyways, both of these dishes look great. Nachos. Guac is a classic.

3 (17m 3s):
Totally

12 (17m 5s):
Wait. You said this was vegan. I see sausage and cheese and stuff.

3 (17m 9s):
I'll explain everything.

9 (17m 21s):
This episode was produced by Kiara Powell, bird Pinkerton. And now I'm Hassenfeld the team at transmit. A media includes Shahi Schmitz, Isabelle kata, Kiara Powell, Daphne chin and Sarah. Nick. The team at Vox includes Noam Hassenfeld and bird Pinkerton. Our executive producers, Greta cone and Katherine Wells Merrill LA GE is our fact checker. Sophia landman sound designed to mix the series. Beans was played by Don McDonald special thanks to live beaten. Ju Spellman, Lennox, Conkling, Vivian Palmer, Asha, EZ Laman and Alex bent.

9 (18m 3s):
You can hear all of our episodes and find related activities@vox.com slash today. Dash explained dash two dash kids.

KiwiCo (18m 20s):
Children are like messy, little sponges, constantly absorbing lessons, no matter where they go, but that learning shouldn't stop over summer break. Kiwi co offers monthly projects built to help kids learn new skills, flex their creative muscles and grow like never before Kiwi co delivers. Super cool hands on art, geography, science and technology projects for kids of all ages straight to your door every month. Right now you can get an exclusive Kiwi co and box bundle perfectly designed to fill your kid's summer downtime with discovery. Get 50% off your first month on any subscription line with code V 50 Kiwi co.com/box.