0 (1s):
Hello, Vox listeners. My name is Erin Lamor and I'm one of the hosts of the long form podcast, the newest edition Devoxx and the Vox media podcast network. We've been doing the show for over nine years. We've gotten to talk to people like George Saunders, Terry Gross, Tallahassee coats, and really tried to explore what it means to be a writer or a journalist today in 2021. We're also expanding to feature documentarians, podcasters, whoever we find interesting. So you can catch up on long form now at vox.com/long form or in the podcast app of your choice.

1 (54s):
Republicans in Texas are really going for lately. They're legislating so far rightward. The Democrats fled the state. A bunch of them wound up here and Washington DC.

2 (1m 3s):
They left the state on buses and planes to block the vote,

3 (1m 7s):
The Texas Democrats decision to break a quorum of the Texas legislature and to abandon the Texas state Capitol, that inflict harm on the very Texans who had elected them to serve Nicole

1 (1m 20s):
Narea covers politics at Vox, but she does it from Texas. Nicole. What's going on with the GOP out there.

4 (1m 26s):
So Republicans have passed or are trying to pass a slew of legislation on topics that are really aimed at animating their right wing base. Democrats basically talked a big game about turning the state blue and 2020 and flipping the Texas state house.

5 (1m 42s):
Well, Texas has not voted for Democrat for president since the 1976, a major surgeon early voting in the lone star state is giving Democrats new hope tonight that they could turn the traditionally red state blue Narea,

4 (1m 54s):
But that didn't come even close to fruition.

2 (1m 57s):
It turns out that Democrats may be some of them spotter, the blue mirages and some of the early numbers and hope overcame facts in this case, Texas. So Republicans

4 (2m 10s):
At this point, aren't really worried about a democratic offensive. The state is solidly red and, and com and Republicans from governor Greg Abbott down to state house representatives just want to defend their seats from primary challengers in next year's elections, and also prove to Republican voters that they share their values.

1 (2m 29s):
What issues are they trying to prove this on? So

4 (2m 32s):
The has already signed legislation that removed permit requirements to carry a handgun and also established an effective ban on abortion. That's currently facing legal challenges, but there's also a special session of the state legislature underway, where lawmakers are supposed to work on legislation that would prevent schools from teaching critical race theory, provide funding for border security and make is already very restrictive voting laws, even more so.

1 (2m 58s):
And of course this voting legislation thing is getting a ton of attention in particular because state Democrats, once again fled the state house.

4 (3m 6s):
Yeah. So it's basically a last-ditch effort to prevent the passage of this restrictive new voting law by preventing a quorum in the legislature and, you

6 (3m 14s):
Know, to break quorum, we have to stay out of the state for a long time. We're fighting for voting rights. These bills that they're trying to pass in Texas would make it so much harder for the people of Texas to vote, especially women, people of color and individuals with a disability. So we're coming,

4 (3m 28s):
They intend to stay in DC and till the end of the special session and August, but unless Congress intervenes by passing voting rates legislation in the immediate future, it might just be a matter of delaying the inevitable at this point because Republicans control this Texas legislature and they've been threatening to even arrest Democrats who've left the state,

1 (3m 46s):
But why is the state's GOP being so aggressive about passing all of these bills right now? You mentioned something about sort of trying to appeal to the conservative base instead of trying to appeal to the middle.

4 (4m 2s):
Yeah. So for a while after the 2018 midterm elections, Texas Republicans were more focused on bread and butter issues like property taxes and school finance, but Democrats made some major inroads that year, not just retaking the U S house, but also picking out 12 seats and the Texas house and two and the Texas Senate. And that shook Republican's confidence a bit and the state, but 2020 kind of marked the return of the more cultural worry issues and the Texas legislature. And with primary elections around the corner and 2022 Texas Republicans are trying to hold onto their seats and not lose them to more conservative candidates. There's also been rumors flying about that. Governor Abbott is trying to boost his image for a potential 20, 24 presidential run.

4 (4m 42s):
So Republicans at this point, and really just returning to some of the really divisive issues that the Trump administration focused on and

1 (4m 48s):
The Texas governor's kind of chummy what the former president. Yeah,

4 (4m 51s):
Yeah, yeah, definitely. He recently hosted Trump for a visit down in Texas and I had

2 (4m 56s):
The borders so close the best ever. We're gonna begin the process, putting the border wall up, just like president Trump did just like what president Biden should

4 (5m 5s):
Be doing. He really is trying to align himself with Trump's base at this point.

1 (5m 10s):
And I, I imagine the critical race theory, the abortion stuff that the voting bill and stuff is, is all part of that plan. But is there anything governor Abbott is particularly suited to do, to, to sort of add here to the former president's agenda?

4 (5m 26s):
Yeah. I mean, at least in terms of Texas being a border state, he's been really focusing on the immigration piece of that agenda and has been trying to attack the Biden administration for perceived failures to deal with migration, the U S Mexico border. He's basically just saying that at this point, the Biden administration is allowing criminals over the boarder and, and the, the border isn't secure some of the same rhetoric we saw under the Trump administration and that Trump has himself has repeated in recent weeks and speeches that he's given at C pack and, and other places

3 (6m 1s):
We ended the horrible catch and release where we catch a criminal and release them into our country. We actually said, Nope, it's called stay in Mexico. And it worked very well. And we had the support of Mexico who else could do that. But

4 (6m 19s):
You know, it's not really clear at this point, whether those attacks can actually land given that it's not really clear that there is a crisis at the border. It's just maybe the result of pandemic related policies that have led to a pent up demand for migration.

1 (6m 40s):
And is governor Abbott trying to do something about this himself? Yes.

4 (6m 44s):
He has said that he wants to build a border wall by himself, by himself. Yeah. You're not the only one who's skeptical. Like is

1 (6m 52s):
He going to go down there and cargo shorts with like a sun hat

4 (6m 57s):
Who knows at this point it is very much of a theoretical vision as opposed to a practical one. And given that there are a lot of concerns legally, and, and, and also just practically about implementing the project from fundraising to seizing private property, to the limited powers of state government over immigration. And it's really unclear if he'll actually be able to do it, but he's still going to try it. And so far he's managed to raise some money for it.

1 (7m 32s):
Quick break then how the Texas governor plans to do with the federal government couldn't build that wall.

7 (7m 50s):
This is advertiser content from lending tree. When it comes to finding a mate, most of us will compare many possible matches before finding our person. And we invest our time. A survey found that millennials can spend around 90 minutes a day swiping on dating apps. We can't find ourselves in a relationship with someone else. If we don't know who we are, first that's professional matchmaker, Marshawn body of three day rule. There's no one size fits all for everybody. But shopping around is important. At first, it can feel a little exhausting, but you, you got to go through it, right? Everyone does.

7 (8m 30s):
In the end, the things you look for when comparing potential mates are unique to you. So why not find a credit card or loan that fits you just as personally lending tree is a one-stop marketplace where you can easily compare loans, credit cards, insurance, and more so not only do you save money, you save time. And that means more time to spend with your special someone find lending tree on the app store, or go to lending tree.com to learn more terms and conditions apply in MLS. Number 1, 1, 3, 6.

4 (9m 5s):
This episode is sponsored by JBL true wireless headphones.

8 (9m 10s):
I'll call you back later. Okay. About to go for a run. Here's what I love about my JBL. True wireless headphones. I can go from a call with my mom to music that powers my workout. It's all with these stylish earbuds that come in a range of colors and fits I'll go and do a few miles today. Good thing. These JBL earbuds are waterproof. I'm going to sweat after a quick coffee and stop I'll have and iced coffee to go, please. Oh, no run just as well, because I definitely rely on the convenience of these headphones and Ooh, I am almost late to this meeting.

8 (9m 52s):
Hey everyone. Hey guys, just ignore my dog over here. These lovely little wireless earbuds are such a lifesaver with so many options to choose from. They're perfect for whatever your lifestyle needs and stylish to find the freedom to do you with JBL true wireless headphones, to learn more, check out jbl.com/tws. That's J B l.com/tws.

1 (10m 21s):
Nicole. So when we left off, you said that the Texas governor, governor Greg Abbott plans on building the border wall by himself, how exactly does a governor and go about doing that?

4 (10m 32s):
So he is planning on picking up where Trump lift off and the Trump administration built about 450 miles of barrier on the border, but most of it was in Arizona. So Abbott's looking to finish the wall along the Texas border and has so far put down a $250 million down payment that was drawn from state disaster relief funds. And he's also crowdfunded almost another half a million dollars as of June 23rd, but that's still kind of a drop in the bucket of what he might need to finish the project. And the federal government's estimated that it could cost as much as $46 million a mile in some sectors of the border. So it's not really clear at this point where that money is coming from.

1 (11m 12s):
Yeah. Is that, is that like a thing you can do? Can, can a state governor just take disaster relief funds and put it towards a vanity project and construction project or, you know, as he probably would like to phrase it an essential security spending project?

4 (11m 30s):
Yeah. It's not clear whether that's legal under the Texas state law. He basically declared a disaster for 44 counties in the state last month, citing a recent increase in unauthorized immigration at the border, and that freed up some resources to deal with the problem and also allowed him to suspend any state laws and regulations that would stand in the way. But as I mentioned before, it's not clear that the current levels of unauthorized immigration actually constitute a disaster as it's defined legally

1 (12m 0s):
Fair, assuming he does raise enough money and, and doesn't run into legal challenges for using emergency funds for this, which who knows, but wait, where exactly in Texas, would this wall go?

4 (12m 15s):
Yeah. So this is going to be another challenge for Abbott. We have

9 (12m 18s):
An obligation to take care of this lab and, and my family since the 1750 it's in our DNA,

4 (12m 26s):
He basically needs the consent of private land owners on the border to build the wall on what is currently their property.

9 (12m 33s):
My name is <inaudible>. I'm a retired CBP officer now turn farm and ranch. I may miss we'll say. And the last name is <inaudible>. We're standing on the United States side. The landlord where that you see is,

4 (12m 50s):
And these landowners have already fought both the Trump and Biden administrations, the courts to prevent the federal government from seizing their land. In order to construct the wall

9 (12m 59s):
Army Corps of engineers already came in, they took their soil samples. They did some survey, did it some clean up. We have not received anything from the governor's office. I would not personally donate any land for that use or for any youth,

4 (13m 13s):
The Texas civil rights project, which is a legal aid organization is currently representing more than 130 property owners that want to keep their land. So it's not clear that that land will actually be available for Texas to construct its wall.

1 (13m 28s):
Hmm. What are these landowners reasons for fighting the wall? Do they just not believe in flaws? Do they want to keep their property Wallace?

4 (13m 39s):
Yeah. So this is Texas and the idea of big government taking your property. Isn't all that popular.

2 (13m 45s):
The 65 plus acres of family land and mission, Texas sit right on the banks of the Rio Grande. It's belonged to the crevasses family for three generations, and it's no secret how they feel about a border wall going up on their property. How

6 (13m 59s):
Would you like somebody's the garment to come to your house and said, we're going to put up a gate, right, right. In your house. It's

4 (14m 6s):
Actually been an issue, not just in terms of constructing the wall, but also it's been an obstacle to various infrastructure and rail construction projects over the years. And you also have to remember that the region of south Texas has been really hard hit by both the pandemic and the resulting recession. So voters, there are more focused on boosting the local economy and resuming cross border trade, which has been a huge source of jobs and economic growth for the region for a long time.

1 (14m 35s):
So if locals, aren't crazy about this wall and the governor is probably going to face a lot of challenges using this money to build the wall. Why bother?

4 (14m 48s):
It seems like state Republicans aren't really that interested in plating to the predominantly Hispanic communities along the border, where a wall would actually matter to them. It's really much more of a political ploy than an actual project at this point. And much like the other laws we talked about before. This is an attempt to fire up a conservative base before 2022 and, and 2024.

1 (15m 11s):
I reached out to governor Abbott's office for comment, and his press secretary said that this wall is not about politics. Quote, border security is not a red or blue issue. This is a public safety issue. She went on to say that until the Biden administration starts doing their job, Texas is stepping up to secure our Southern border and protect Texans. So clearly the governor's office is saying they don't see this as like some sort of GOP ploy is this border wall going to be popular among Texans. So

4 (15m 41s):
It could work and the way that it did for Trump, but it could also backfire. So in 2016, immigration was seen as an issue that helped mobilize white grievance voters, as well as some swing voters in places like Michigan, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania, and, and favor of Republicans. But in 2018, when Trump really focused on the quote-unquote invasion of migrant caravans and smugglers, it really didn't help the Republicans, case and Democrats who focused on healthcare for the most part instead ended up taking back 41 house seats. So it's definitely proved a risky strategy for Republicans nationally in the past. But if there's a place where that strategy could succeed, it's probably Texas.

1 (16m 26s):
You mentioned the Texas governor might be gearing up for the presidential run and 20, 24, but before he gets there, he has to run for reelection in Texas next year. And he's going up against what like a clean shaven Beto O'Rourke.

4 (16m 37s):
Yeah, I think that's a question that a lot of people want to ask, but the democratic party at this point in Texas is pretty demoralized after the results of 2020. And I just don't see them launching and offensive that threatens Abbott in any way, even though he's faced a lot of challenges over the last year with the pandemic and also this crazy winter storm that left a lot of people without power in the cold for days, but he's hearkening back to the issues that his voters care about. And it's a strategy that's worked for Texas Republican's the past, and that he's hoping will work for him in 2022,

1 (17m 11s):
A flipping Texas blue, sort of dead now with all of these initiatives, from the Texas GOP that sort of run so hard and fast, and the face of everything that the state's liberals probably want to see happen.

4 (17m 25s):
Yeah. I mean, I think a lot of people thought that 2020 was Democrats' best chance to make some progress and Texas. And when that didn't come to fruition, especially in terms of, you know, the Texas legislature now being controlled by Republicans, it means that there'll be in control of redistricting, which could basically harm Democrats for the next 10 years. And also these initiatives to clamp down on voting rights, leave Democrats and, and a really precarious position and pretty much unable to make progress for the foreseeable future, unless there's some federal intervention here.

1 (18m 7s):
So pretty bleak for the, the state's Democrats. But there's always the question of governor Matthew McConaughey.

2 (18m 17s):
Well, I, I want to talk to you about a couple of things. One is, there's a speculation that maybe might one day run for governor

10 (18m 25s):
Of Texas, right? It's something I'm giving consideration apps. Absolutely. What an honorable thing to even be able to do the

4 (18m 32s):
I'm a bit skeptical about this one as well. And it's not even clear whether he would run as a Democrat or Republican or independent, but he has expressed interest in the governorship. So the 2022 race could shape up to be quite interesting.

10 (18m 47s):
And we've got to keep realizing that we're a place where our individual pursuits and desires need to be appreciative and supportive of our collective responsibilities as Americans. Hence the United States of America

1 (19m 4s):
Has probable candidate McConaughey weighed in on the wall on voting legislation, critical race theory, abortion handguns. I can't believe I'm asking you what Matthew McConaughey thinks about critical race theory.

4 (19m 18s):
He seems to be staying out of the fray for now, but he has said that he would take an aggressively centric approach to his platform, whatever that means.

1 (19m 40s):
Nicole and Narea covers politics and immigration at Vox. Find her work@box.com. I'm Sean Ramez from it's today explained the team includes Halima Shaw. We'll read Victoria Chamberlain, Emily Sen and miles. Brian, a FIM Shapiro's our engineer. Matthew collects our editor and Amina Alside he's our supervising producer music from Breakmaster cylinder facts check by Laura Bullard, Liz Kelly, and Nelsons, the VP of audio and box Julian Weinberger's. The deputy today Explained is part of the box media podcast network. You can reach us with an email today, Explained and box.com.