1 (2s):
This morning I had about a million different emotions going through my head. I'm thinking, how did a guy from nowhere Indiana wind up in Costa Rica?

2 (14s):
The Bachelor Bachelor, Gary Turner made his pick last night? No spoilers using time honored reality TV tricks.

1 (21s):
And I came to the realization that you're not the right person for me to live with. You're the person that I can't live without. Oh my God.

2 (36s):
The Bachelor pivoted to Golden oldies this season with Gary and a crop of age appropriate dates, and to the shock and delight of many the energetic, funny Randy seniors revived a tired franchise and offered an image of aging that honestly looked kind of cool. Coming up. On today explained, we love you 1000% and we're never gonna stop believing that every day we choose you.

Microsoft (1m 2s):
Nearly, 24,000 kids had their identity stolen in 2022 In, the age of social media and phishing schemes. It's more important than ever to protect your family's personal data. Microsoft Defender helps keep your personal information safer online with identity theft monitoring for the whole family, giving you real time alerts, expert guidance, and even hands on restoration support When you need help. you get personal data plus device protection all in one easy to use app. Maximize your protection with Microsoft Defender. Available with a Microsoft 3 6 5 personal or family subscription.

2 (1m 49s):
It's today explained. I'm no Will King Emma Gray is a journalist and host of the podcast. Love to see it with Emma and Claire. She co-authors The Rich Text Substack. She's also a big fan of the Bachelor. And of course every fan is deep down a critic.

4 (2m 5s):
I think that the Bachelor proper, it is fundamentally a heterosexual white Christian marriage show. So I think that, you know, it's probably pretty easy to guess that there are some conservative values embedded in that prize being held up as the number one thing that a woman and specifically women, because this show did start with the Bachelor, not the bachelorette that a woman would want and thus be, be valued for. I can have this stringent critique of kind of the basis for the show.

4 (2m 47s):
And at the same time, it hits something very fundamental and soft inside of me, which is that I love to see a good love story.

1 (2m 58s):
I want to spend,

5 (2m 59s):
Spend the rest of my life telling you I love you.

4 (3m 5s):
And also I think the show presents something very comforting, which is this idea that If, you are searching for love. There is a formula by which you could be guaranteed to find it.

6 (3m 22s):
I do believe Brian, when he tells me he's falling in love with me a hundred percent.

4 (3m 27s):
And even if we know that that's not true, there's something narratively satisfying about watching this person go through this process with this limited group of people and knowing that at least in, in a limited way, by the end, you will have yourself a quote unquote happy ending.

7 (3m 46s):
You've shown me that a good thing can really just be a good thing. The love that we have is perfect.

2 (3m 55s):
I had never watched the Bachelor before Thanksgiving weekend when I watched the Golden Bachelor with my 72-year-old mom who at the moment is refusing to date even though she's widowed. And I was very taken by the Bachelor himself. Gary, tell us about this man and why you think the producers of the Bachelor looked at him and said, oh, he's a good lead.

4 (4m 17s):
Oh man, Gary Turner is the platonic ideal of what they would want in a Golden Bachelor. I mean, first of all, this man is almost like an AI created, aged up version with greater emotional depth and intelligence of like all of the bachelors that came before him. Hmm. This is a Midwestern white man.

1 (4m 45s):
I married my high school sweetheart, Tony, in 1972. We had 43 wonderful years together.

4 (4m 52s):
He has a very, very genuinely compelling, sad backstory.

1 (4m 58s):
I took my wife to the emergency room on July 7th. She passed away on July 15th.

4 (5m 6s):
He's also very good at the job of being the lead of a reality show, which is a really hard job. Like we don't think about it as labor, but it's genuine labor and it's hard to carry one of these shows. And he has enough charisma and enough emotional intelligence to really engage in relationships with a bunch of different women and also explain women his emotions to the camera in a way that we can receive them and empathize with him.

2 (5m 35s):
Let's talk about the contestants next. I don't know, this is gonna sound silly, but overwhelmingly I found myself really liking them. Tell us about the contestants and tell us whether they're different from the typical contestant on these shows.

4 (5m 52s):
So I think a lot of us, when they announced that Golden Bachelor was going to be happening, we were all thinking, are these women gonna be like 45? Like are yes. You know, like, are we going to, are they gonna do something really annoying where there's like two women in their sixties and the rest are 20 years younger than him? And I was so pleasantly surprised that all of the women are between the ages of 60 and 75. These women are extremely vibrant and I will say they are overwhelmingly conventionally beautiful.

4 (6m 33s):
You know, they are overwhelmingly thin. The majority of them, I believe are white. Although there are some notable non-white cast members, but don don't know how to put this. They don't all look like they had the same doctor, I'll put it that way. No. You know, like they, no. Yeah,

2 (6m 54s):
Yeah.

4 (6m 55s):
These women, you can, you can see the life lived on their faces and you can see I think a variety of approaches to the aging process and how they kind of physically chose to engage with their age.

8 (7m 14s):
We had the initial connection of like that we both lost our spouses and like I can see a glimmer of like what a life would look like with them. And

4 (7m 21s):
So we have Joan who was another widow who I think could have gone really far, but she unfortunately had to leave the show because her daughter was experiencing postpartum depression. Kathy was our resident, dramatic one.

9 (7m 43s):
I think that's the kind of stuff that sounds possessive territorial and get the hell out my way. He's mine.

4 (7m 49s):
Which is kind of incredible because to give you an idea of the level of drama and conflict that occurred on, on this show, KA told Theresa,

9 (7m 60s):
I don't wanna take the gloves off. I don't wanna be mean, but Zip your Lip.

4 (8m 5s):
That was about as heavy as the antagonism. God. And another standout, other standouts for me included Sandra, who was our resident, 75-year-old, who I cannot believe is 75 because

2 (8m 24s):
She looks 50.

4 (8m 27s):
I need her to explain to me how with like knee replacements, she's diving into the crowd during a game of pickleball.

2 (8m 36s):
They're

9 (8m 37s):
Not gonna stop me on a pickleball court game

4 (8m 39s):
Point. Just the athletic prowess is very, very impressive. She won

9 (8m 45s):
It

10 (8m 46s):
And Kitchen

4 (8m 47s):
Has

2 (8m 47s):
Done it. Let's talk about another form of athleticism. How does this season of the Bachelor talk about sex?

4 (8m 54s):
Yeah. I was actually pleasantly surprised that the show didn't try to neuter its cast members. And I think on the whole, the show did a pretty good job of showing conversations between Gary and Leslie, for example, where Leslie asks him point blank, okay, I

11 (9m 13s):
Have a question for you. When's the last time you had sex?

4 (9m 18s):
We even get a great conversation between the host Jesse Palmer and Gary, where Jesse kind of seems uncomfortable talking about sex with Gary and Gary pushes him. He's like, okay, Jesse,

1 (9m 30s):
Your parents, are you still feeling like mom and dad come down the stairs with a little extra spring in their step T-M-I-T-M-I? Gary, I may

4 (9m 39s):
Be having that day the suggestion that they should feel some sort of shame about having sexual desires being sexual beings. And sure they might make a joke or two about how their grandkids are watching, but they're not gonna shy away from making out on camera. And truly if they didn't, it would not be a real Bachelor experience. You know,

2 (10m 5s):
We can't always expect reality TV to be saying something, but sometimes it does. You know, that's why I think a, a lot of people keep going. Do you think this season managed to say something unique or something authentic by focusing on people over 60?

4 (10m 21s):
I do. I think it might sound a bit silly, but I think that there is just a fundamental value in seeing, especially women who are over the age of 60, presented as legitimate objects of desire, full humans worthy of being looked at and listened to and yeah, seen and heard and thought of as people with bright years ahead of them. So often, I mean, I feel this even as a 36-year-old woman who is, you know, entering into my middle aged years and thinking about what the future holds and seeing this narrative that tells women that when we reach a certain age, we should retreat into the bushes.

4 (11m 18s):
We should disappear. We are, we have passed our prime, our years of being worthy of being looked at because that is where our value lies. And that's a really depressing way to view aging as a woman. And so I think there is something kind of subversive about seeing these women's stories front and center on network television and being framed in a way that yeah, feels like sexy and inviting. And we're seeing them form new friendships and be silly. And also talk in really beautiful wise ways about their lived experiences.

4 (12m 3s):
Neither

12 (12m 3s):
One of us thought this was gonna happen. We thought we were gonna live with our spouses for the rest of our lives. Yeah.

2 (12m 16s):
Do you think there will be a Golden bachelorette? Yes. What are your spidey senses and your sources? Oh, yes.

4 (12m 21s):
Yes. I think, say more. I, I feel almost certain that there will be, and I think it will be Leslie. That's my, oh my God.

0 (12m 32s):
I'm literally, I

2 (12m 32s):
Sometimes I pretend to be shocked in interviews. I'm literally shocked. I'm

4 (12m 36s):
Shocked. That is what I think. Oh my God, that is what I think she would be perfect. She would be so perfect.

2 (12m 45s):
Journalist Emigre Coming up. What about real life though? An 81-year-old academic on why the numbers are stacked against women? What Sex after 70 is like, it's amazing. And how to live with the ghost in the bed.

0 (13m 11s):
Fox Creative,

13 (13m 13s):
This is advertiser content from Microsoft 3 6, 5.

14 (13m 16s):
In the first six months of 2023, more than 200,000 cases of identity theft were reported. Credit card fraud, bank fraud, that ominous category of other. There are a lot of categories that fraud can fall into and there are ever evolving strategies that thieves use to take advantage of unsuspecting people, even if the odds are relatively low, the stakes are high and there are simple ways to protect against all kinds of identity theft. Never repeat passwords, never click on a link sent from an unknown contact. And use tools like Microsoft, Defender, Microsoft Defender helps keep your personal information safer online with continuous monitoring of threats to your identity and credit.

14 (14m 2s):
Get timely alerts, monthly credit reports, expert guidance, and even hands on restoration support. When you need help all in one, easy to use security dashboard. Maximize your protection with Microsoft Defender. available with a Microsoft 3, 6, 5 personal or family subscription.

15 (14m 24s):
Ladies, Gary, it's the final Rose tonight. When you're ready.

0 (14m 33s):
Will you accept this

2 (14m 34s):
Today? Explained Nan Bauer Magdalene is a retired professor at City University in New York and a prolific editor of books about the human experience, death and dying parenting and et cetera. Her latest book,

16 (14m 47s):
It's called Gray Love Stories about Dating and New Relationships After 60.

2 (14m 53s):
Ah, perfect for what we're doing here. Yes,

16 (14m 57s):
Very much. Perfect. My husband of 36 years died when I was approaching about 75 or a little bit, a little bit younger. And after about a year and a half or so, I felt lonely and I decided I would try to date online and I did. I went on first on OkCupid because that's free. And then I went on Match and I picked Match because I just heard about it. And also I figured more people aren't matched than anywhere else, although there are thousands of sites now. And I dated about nine different men and I met a man and we've been dating for five years now.

16 (15m 45s):
And I liked him. He was an academic on me and I was doing a book on widows then, and I was having trouble with the footnotes and everything and I asked him to help me. It was only after like our third date or so, I asked if he would help me and he came over and he helped me with the footnotes and I liked the way he worked. And then I asked him a few weeks later when I decided I wanna do something on Gray Love and about dating over 60, I asked him if he would be my co-editor. And so we became editors together and we've been dating ever since.

2 (16m 22s):
What was it like starting to date again in your seventies after 30, 30 odd years of being married?

16 (16m 28s):
It's hard. I mean, first of all, it's hard to use online dating, especially if the last time you dated you were twen in your twenties or something. And you don't know about how to do online dating. But everyone's moving to online dating because especially if you're older, you don't meet somebody in a bar and you're not working, you don't meet somebody at work. And when you ask your friends do they have somebody to suggest for you? Men who lose their wives are taken up pretty quickly. It's very hard to find an eligible man and it's very hard to find someone like Gary Mm, who's handsome in good shape.

16 (17m 10s):
He's sensitive, he cries, he listens to women. I have some criticism of him, which I can share later. But it's very hard to find an A man who you even are attracted to or interested in when you go online. And for me it was very hard. You know, like I knew I wanted somebody who at least reads books. Yeah.

2 (17m 34s):
And,

16 (17m 35s):
And some of the men online, you know, haven't read a book for since high school. And I knew I wanted a widow and I would prefer a man who had been married for a long time. And I would prefer a man who had children and also was nearby. So it's important to know what you want. The other thing is not to be too rigid, you know, if you're too rigid, then nobody fits your what you want. What

2 (18m 3s):
Did you think of the Golden Bachelor? What did you think of this season?

16 (18m 7s):
I was pleased that it showed women, older women as exciting, not invisible, but it showed them as people

17 (18m 18s):
Never have I ever had sex in a workplace. God, Sandra, my husband and I did it everywhere. Good for you. Take two. You know,

16 (18m 31s):
It does show in the beginning, I think it's the second episode, you know, when they're showing where they're gonna sleep.

17 (18m 40s):
Oh my, oh my God, I guess I get the bump. We're too old for

16 (18m 45s):
That. And also, I pee at night.

17 (18m 49s):
How many of you have to get up in the middle of the night to pee? I, I won't do it. I won't get out bed. Oh, I won't. I have to. Otherwise it's gonna be an accident.

16 (18m 56s):
And we did learn. The other thing that was serious is we did learn that people had losses, that they come to it having lost a partner or being divorced. Often you're told when you're dating as an older person, and this is in my book, that don't talk about your earlier relationships. Don't talk about your wife or your husband who died. But the man I met had lost his wife after 44 years. And I wrote a piece called The Ghosts in the Bed. And whenever we were together in bed, there was also his, and this is not literal, his wife and my husband in bed too. Hmm. And that's not something to be suppressed.

16 (19m 36s):
One of the nice things about coming as an older person is that you had a full life, older people. And I'm generalizing, but I think it's very true in my book, And it often in life we don't wanna live with somebody else. If you've lived with yourself, someone be, you know, your husband or wife for 40 years, you don't particularly wanna live with somebody else. And you also have to realize that when you date, when you're older, that that person is not gonna change. You're not gonna influence that person to have different habits. For instance, the guy that I'm dating, he's much more messy than I. And I don't wanna live with him. don don't wanna give up my, my apartment and share everything with him.

16 (20m 18s):
And the Golden Bachelor only discusses, well, where should we live? Who should you know, who will live with whom? And they never raised the fact that older people don't necessarily wanna live together. So I just think, you know, I understand it's a reality show, but it's not realistic in many ways. And I guess you can't expect it to be about older people.

2 (20m 42s):
One of the ways in which it was realistic, or at least it got a lot of credit for being realistic, was how it treated sex. The people on this show wanted to have sex. They weren't like craven or weird about it, but it was obvious that sex was important to many of them. Do you give the show any credit for that? How did you feel about how it handled sex?

16 (21m 2s):
Yes, I do, of course. And one of the things that in my book, but also outside of my book, older people have told me that sex is great. And we don't think of older people as having great sex, but I think that they do partially because they have time and they don't have little children running around and they don't have to worry about their career. So you can actually enjoy each other's bodies in a way that you've never done before. And so that I think is very positive. We, we don't really see that on the, on Golden Bachelor, but we know that the women are attracted to Gary and he's attracted to them. I thought there was, he was kissing them too early.

16 (21m 42s):
But that's my,

2 (21m 43s):
My mom said the same thing.

16 (21m 45s):
It's was she

2 (21m 46s):
Was so grossed out by that

16 (21m 48s):
It was, and be partially 'cause he's seducing them and then letting them down. And you know, I, I don't think love is so easy, but let me get back to sex. One of the problems or issues about aging is that your body isn't the, you know, spry beautiful body that you once had. And for instance, Martha Stewart on Sports Illustrated bathing suit cover, she doesn't look 80, she looks 40. And a lot of the women on Golden Bachelor seem to me to be a little bit unrepresentative of aging women.

16 (22m 29s):
And one thing that I think is really important that you do not see on the Golden Bachelor, that when you date, when you're older, you know that there's an end. Even If. you find somebody, you know there's an end and that end is that person, or you are gonna get sick, gonna have a major disability, And it is hard to talk about and are gonna die. And so there's something very touching but sad about older people dating because you see the end.

2 (23m 8s):
Hmm. Closing thoughts for our listeners. Closing thoughts about how you reacted to the show, what advice you might have for them, anything we haven't asked you about?

16 (23m 19s):
It is good to see women who are hardy and will risk things. And one of the things in the book that many people who went online and did not find anybody, they had a very good attitude is, I think it's how you have your attitude towards the online dating and dating when you're older. I don't know if I could have that attitude. One woman went on 39 different dates and she said she learned a lot from each date. She learned how to tango. She learned how to adopt a cat. So I think If you o over 60 and you date that If. you could have an attitude that this is an adventure and you might not find the man of your dreams and your the love of your life, but you might find interest, you might find, make friends, and you might find someone you like somewhat.

16 (24m 14s):
I think the finding as Ga Gary kept saying he wanted to find his second true love. I think that's the wrong attitude. I think you should find somebody that you care about and could maybe be a companion.

2 (24m 31s):
Nan Bauer Magne magnificent at 81. Today's episode was produced by Halima Shaw and edited by Amina El Saade. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and Matthew Collette. And David Herman is our engineer. The rest of our team includes Si, Petros, Haddi Modi, Victoria Chamberlain, Isha Artsy, Amanda Ellen and Isabelle Angel. Our EP is Miranda Kennedy. My co-host is Sean Ramas firm. We're distributed to public radio stations by WNYC in New York, and today explained as part of the Vox Media Podcast Network.

3 (25m 19s):
Having your identity stolen can be devastating financially and emotionally. And. it feels like identity thieves are constantly inventing new ways to take advantage of unsuspecting people. Now you can stay one step ahead with Microsoft Defender. Microsoft Defender helps keep your personal information safer online with continuous monitoring of threats to your identity and credit. Get timely alerts, monthly credit reports, expert guidance, and even hands on restoration support. When you need help all in one, easy to use security dashboard. Maximize your protection with Microsoft Defender. available with a Microsoft 3 6 5 personal or family subscription.