1 (4s):
The global shipping industry handles about 80% of international trade. 80% of the stuff that you and everyone else buys from overseas gets put on a ship at some point to get to you

2 (15s):
Straight, low known boat on the C.

1 (18s):
So blockages are very serious. Remember the ever given the ship that got stuck in the Suez Canal a few years ago? Right now, the shipping industry is facing two crises. The first is at the Panama Canal, where a drought is causing such long delays that authorities have started auctioning off spots to jump the line. And the second, of course, is in the Red Sea, where Hhy rebels are wilding. International commercial ships to protest Israel's offensive in Gaza. Coming up on today explained the shipping news

3 (45s):
Cut through like Aama, Canal, Canal Canal. Cut, cut, cut, cut through like Canal, Canal, Canal. Cut, cut, cut through like Aama, Canal, Canal Canal cut, cut through

BetterHelp (59s):
Support for today Explain comes from better help online therapy. They say humans are social animals, but if that's the case, why are relationships so hard? The best relationships with friends, family, or partners happen when both people put in the time and commitment to make them great. Therapy can help. Better help provides easy and affordable online therapy. You can start the process in minutes and switch therapists anytime. Give your relationships some love with better help. You can visit better help.com/explain today to get 10% off your first month. That's better. hlp.com/explained

The Weeds (1m 35s):
Roses are red. This poem's a gimmick. The marriage rate is falling for black women and the reasons are systemic. The barriers might look different, they might show up differently, but they're facing the same forbidden black love barrier. Why is the marriage rate so low for black women? That answer is especially complicated. That's this week on The Weeds new episodes every Wednesday.

1 (2m 16s):
It is today explained. I'm Noel King. The global shipping trade is facing two crises right now. The first is that the 50 mile long manmade Canal that connects the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. Mia Dahl is a freelance Reporter focusing on of all things the Panama Canal. Mia writes for Foreign Policy and Leading magazine, the Economist, and she says The Canal is having problems this year because of weather. Right

7 (2m 39s):
Now we're seeing a really severe drought in Panama. There's this weather phenomena called El Nino that's been particularly strong this past year and last October we actually saw that there was 41% less precipitation than usual and that it's only set to get worse. As the country right now heads into the dry season. The Panama Canal authority has actually had to slice the number of ships allowed through the Canal from about 38 36 ships a day before the crisis started to about half of that expected in in February.

8 (3m 11s):
To make matters worse, each vessel is allowed to carry 40% less weight. This brought it some ships to unload their cargo and to move it by rail to the other side.

1 (3m 22s):
The Panama Canal is surrounded on one side by the Pacific Ocean and on the other side by the Caribbean. Why does a drought affect it? Can't they just push water in from the ocean or in from the Gulf?

7 (3m 35s):
So yeah, that's basically because of how the Canal works.

9 (3m 39s):
As a cargo boat nears the canal's approach channels from the sea. The tugboats attach a tow line to the cargo ship and move them into alignment with the Canal locks narrow entrance.

7 (3m 51s):
They come in from the freshwater side. So the water that provides these lus has to come from the three nearby lakes. And then you need to lift the ships up in an altitude of these 85 feet above sea level water, lifting them up to the sea level, and then they can like go out. It's, it's simply a matter of the mechanics of the Canal.

9 (4m 16s):
Once the cargo ship is firmly within a lock, the lock gate behind it then shuts. While the lock gate ahead gradually opens displacing water at a steady pace, thus raising the ship so that it can then enter the next lock.

7 (4m 31s):
The Canal has to use fresh water to transit, transit the ships through, and that water then goes right out into the ocean. So we're actually wasting huge amounts of fresh water to make these operations work. It takes about 52 million gallons of water for every ship that you transferred transit through the Canal, and that's the equivalent to filling about 80 Olympic sized pools or as much as half a million Panamanians will consume in in a day. The other thing is that yes, Panama is also like a very rainy, humid country, actually one of the rainiest in the world.

7 (5m 11s):
So it's lived in an abundance of fresh water and people haven't really been that careful about water as a scarce resource as actually Panamanians use 2.5 times more water than the world average in the most water of any less than American country. But right now, the situation suddenly looks different and Panamanians are starting to think about water as a more scarce resource.

1 (5m 35s):
What kind of ships are going through the pan, the Panama Canal, what's being carried through it?

7 (5m 39s):
So there's quite a lot of different types of cargo going through the Panama Canal. There's of course containers, which is a big part of the, the traffic through the Canal. There's also cruise ships, which have been quite hard hit by this. The

10 (5m 54s):
Rhapsody of the Sea is supposed to start making a Panama Canal cruise. They decided they're not gonna do that now, they're not gonna traverse the Panama Canal at all in 20 23, 20 24 on the Rhapsody of the Sea.

7 (6m 8s):
And then there are some smaller ships as well. And what we see right now is really that this crisis hits the smaller customers much harder because of the way that the Panama Canal is structured. They have a customer booking system that clearly prioritizes the bigger customers. So

1 (6m 26s):
If you're the captain of a ship showing up right now at the Panama Canal, what are your options?

7 (6m 31s):
The options are a bit more limited right now. Like when you have to go through the Panama Canal, you can either choose to wait in line, but right now that's just become a terrible option. The other option is then to pay to jump the line, which is something we've seen become much more common now. And recently we actually saw a ship pay in your 4 million US dollars just to jump the line, huh? And then the third option is for, for the ships to reroute some

11 (6m 57s):
Ocean carriers had chosen to reroute through the Suez Canal, which connects the Mediterranean to the Red Sea before Houthi attacks on commercial vessels in that region escalated.

1 (7m 6s):
If I'm doing my math right, those are, those roots are like thousands of miles out of the way. Yeah. How much of the global shipping trade is actually going through the Panama Canal? In a good year,

7 (7m 16s):
About 5% of Seaborne world trade goes through the Panama Canal, and that's the equivalent of almost 300 billion US dollar worth of cargo. So it's, it's quite a lot in terms of value and volume. When you look regionally, it's about 40% of US container traffic. So regionally it's, it's like a really big bulk of traffic. And, and just to paint a picture of how this looks, the Canal serves more than 180 maritime routes today. It connects 170 countries and it reaches approximately 2000 ports all over the world.

1 (7m 52s):
I remember the last time we heard a lot about supply chain issues. It was during Covid and we saw that things were getting more expensive, it was impossible to buy certain things. Or if you, you know, you bought furniture, It would take six months to get there. What is this doing to American consumers? Anything yet

7 (8m 7s):
This disruption means like disruption of supply chains. It means longer waiting times for consumer that in some special cases they might not even get the products that they're waiting for because they're just stuck or rerouting and it takes too long for them to arrive. And then it might mean, or actually experts say that this is already happening, that it means higher prices for consumers. JP

12 (8m 29s):
Morgan warning that consumer price inflation might grow thanks to rising global shipping costs.

13 (8m 34s):
Brazilian meat, Chilean wines and bananas from Ecuador are regularly shipped across the canals.

14 (8m 40s):
And by the way, how long can bananas sit there? Think about it. You think Banana gets sit there for three weeks? You ever had banana at the kitchen? You leave it there for three weeks. What happens to it? Imagine we're

1 (8m 49s):
Talking so this is bad news for shippers. They're having to find new ways around or they're having to wait. This is bad news for consumers including American consumers because things are more expensive. What does this mean though, for Panama?

7 (9m 4s):
I talked to Rise Banfield, who's a former vice mayor of Panama City and who's now heading an environmental organization called Sustainable Panama. She described how she was sometimes looking out the window from her apartment in Panama City and just seeing the ships waiting in line and what that meant to her because the Panama Canal is really like a national pride. And when it's not working, it hits the country really hard for Panama, this is really an cornerstone of their economy. In 2022, it generated 4.32 billion US dollars in revenue. And when this Canal is disrupted, it creates huge uncertainty for the country.

7 (9m 47s):
It means not only that the revenues from the Canal are at risk, but it also means that the many side industries that serve the Canal and serve the the customers that go through the Canal are in dangers.

1 (10m 1s):
Is anybody in the Panamanian government talking about how to, in the, in the event of a drought like we have now, how to just increase the amount of water going in? Are there any clever ideas?

7 (10m 11s):
I think the most viable option that everyone is talking about is the damming up of the Indio River. A nearby river that would basically mean damming up the river drilling tunnels through a nearby mountain to then provide more water into the Lake Katoon, which is the main reserve providing water to the the Ca Panama Canal. But there's also some issues around this. We're heading into general elections this spring in Panama and probably this kind of new project of damming up the India River could be rather unpopular amongst the communities that it will affect because it means basically flooding huge areas of biodiverse jungle.

7 (10m 55s):
It means that some communities will be displaced. So while it does seem like the best solution to the current problem, it's not an easy one,

1 (11m 6s):
This has been a a shipping route for generations. If it can be disrupted by climate change, if it can be disrupted by El Nino as it has been. What is the future of the Panama Canal here?

7 (11m 19s):
The climate change experts that I've talked to all agree that these kind of weather phenomenas extreme weather events like the kind of drought that we've seen this past year are likely to become only more frequent and more severe. So the Panama Canal will need to resolve its water problem and there's some solutions on the table for that, but they might not just be as fast or as easy as the country or everyone else would hope for. But I think there's no doubt that the panic Mac Canal will remain the most important shipping route in the region for any

0 (11m 53s):
Foreseeable future.

1 (12m 1s):
Mia Dahl, she's a freelance Reporter covering the Panama Canal. So between conflict and climate change, we are looking at some of the most expensive traffic jams in the world. However, as we're gonna learn coming up, warm weather is also creating an opening

Deleteme (12m 28s):
support for today. Explain comes from Delete Me. A lot of your personal data is stored online and that leaves you vulnerable to identity theft. Phishing with a pH, annoying spam calls, delete Me can help get in the way of some of that. They find and remove personal information that you don't want online. They make sure it stays off. Sarah Frank is my colleague on the business side of things here at Vox. She tried delete me and here's how it went. It was really surprising how much of my personal identifiable information was on sites that were accessible to really anyone. Knowing that Delete Me is able to find this information and remove it on my behalf makes me feel a lot safer. You can take control of your data and keep your private life private by signing up for Delete Me Now at a special discount for our listeners. You can get 20% off your Delete Me plan when you go to join delete me.com/today and use promo code today at checkout again, 20% off. Join delete me.com/today and enter code today at checkout. Did you miss it? Join delete me.com/today. Code today.

Shopify (13m 34s):
Support for today Explain comes from Shopify. How well do you know the ins and outs of starting a business? Admittedly, I don't know very much to actually do it. Apparently you might not need as much savvy as you think because they're e-commerce tools to help make getting started easy for anyone. Tools like you guessed it folks. Shopify. Shopify is the global commerce platform that helps you sell at every stage of your business. The beginning stages, the middle stages, the final stages according to the company they support online and in person selling and their award-winning support team will help you along the way. They even have an AI tool called Shopify Magic, which might help make things even easier. Who doesn't like magic? You can sign up for a $1 per month trial period at shopify.com/explained allover case. Don't you dare use uppercase. Go to shopify.com/explained now to grow your business no matter what stage you're in shopify.com/explained, enjoy joy

Noom (14m 45s):
Support For the program. Today comes from Noom who would like to remind you that your body is like no one else's. Your body is a snowflake and they wanna help you with your snowflake according to Noom. They build a plan specifically for you based around psychology and biology even helping you understand why you might crave that one specific food at the same time every day. I've never craved the same food at the same time every day, but maybe Vox is. Sarah Frank has Using Noom. I liked how easy it was to get set up and I liked their super friendly features that allowed me to track and input my workouts, goals, moods, and stress levels every day You can stay focused on what's important to you with Noom psychology and biology based approach. Sign up for your trial today at Noom dot com. That's NOO m.com. This Is today explained.

1 (15m 45s):
Go ahead, give me your full name and tell me what you do.

16 (15m 48s):
Hi, my name is Schrott Hy. I'm an assistant professor of international economics at the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service.

1 (15m 56s):
Okay, so in 2024, many of us who are alive and conscious are very familiar with the idea that supply chains are important and if they end up tangled, we see higher prices. We have more trouble getting things. First there was COVID-19, then there was the ever given that big ship that blocked the Suez Canal. You actually joined us on the show. Then there are attacks on container ships in the Red Sea and now we hear there's a drought and it's affecting the Panama Canal. Is this like you're giggling? Is this like a particularly bad time for global shipping

16 (16m 31s):
To to crib from Dickens? It was the best of times, it was the worst of times. Shippers have both seen this as an opportunity as well as an existential threat for some shippers. These demand spikes have been incredibly great for profits. They've jacked up shipping rates and companies are able to profit. But at the same time we've got this new normal where you just keep these persistent shocks and that could affect long run demand and create costs for both the shippers and us, the consumers.

1 (17m 2s):
What are the biggest threats to global shipping at the moment?

16 (17m 5s):
I put it kind of twofold. One threat is the geopolitics of the world. Things are changing, friendships are being realigned and that's causing kind of differences all over the world. We see some of this in kind of the attacks off the in the Red Sea. But the second threat is, is a little different. It's a longer run, more existential threat of climate change, which is gonna reconfigure how the world looks and also reconfigure where ships can go.

1 (17m 35s):
Who and where is being most affected? By the chaos in the Red Sea,

16 (17m 39s):
It's really affecting one big trade route and that's the connection between East Asia and Europe. So where you wanna look at is consumer goods in Europe, basically these are consumer goods coming from China to Europe. You're gonna see delays on them potentially, but you could also see small price increases. Now how big are those prices increases? That's unclear. We saw during the Ever given it resolved itself relatively quickly. It's question is how long is this gonna last and will it resolve itself in the near future?

1 (18m 10s):
Are there other shipping routes in the world at present that are also threatened by conflicts that maybe are not as high profile?

16 (18m 16s):
Well, there's something that may become high profile in the near future. And again, I'm not a political scientist, so I'm not gonna specify, you know, is this gonna happen today or tomorrow? But the South China Sea is a particularly hot flashpoint.

17 (18m 29s):
Our ship weaves its way through. But from afar we see a Chinese Coast Guard vessel blasting water cannon onto a Philippine supply boat. Confrontations like this have become the norm.

16 (18m 40s):
The South China Sea really connects kind of all our Asian kind of new emerging superpowers. You've got Taiwan, you've got China, you've got Vietnam, you've got Malaysia, and you've got the Philippines. And right now there's lots and lots of trade and things such as electronic components, toy components, all these intermediate goods that get packaged together, creating these value chains that produce our consumer goods in the West today. And we've seen, especially recently, there's been much more national sentiment by some of these countries defending and or constructing even naval base in this area,

18 (19m 15s):
The Philippines has identified the four new military bases that it will be giving us troops access to. At least one of them will face the South China Sea paving the way for a greater American presence in key locations in the region.

16 (19m 30s):
Will this become a flashpoint? I don't know, but right now a large amount of world trade flows through the South China Sea and this could become another potential way where we may shut down trade. Alright,

1 (19m 44s):
So we've got conflict on one hand and we've got climate change on the other. Are there other parts of the world? Are there other shipping routes that are threatened by climate change?

16 (19m 54s):
There's not just threatened by climate change, but there might be new routes open by climate change. And this is something that has been long speculated. If you go back to, you know, your AP US history class, you'll remember the fabled Northwest passage.

1 (20m 8s):
Oh

16 (20m 8s):
Yeah. There's also the Northeast passage. One connects the North Atlantic Sea with kind of the North Pacific. One goes through Canada and the other past Russia.

19 (20m 22s):
We are going through the Fabu Northwest passage. More people have been in space than successfully transmitted the northwest passage by sailing boat.

16 (20m 31s):
Historically, these roots are not traveled frequently because they're covered by ice. Now climate change is making the Arctic recede extremely quickly. There's already trials, runs of commercial shipping taking these routes. The Northeast passes passed. Russia will effectively reduce the time from Yokohama Bay in Tokyo to Rotterdam by about 30%. That's a huge savings. And you find similar roots from the west coast of the US to Europe being reduced.

20 (21m 3s):
China is also very interested in developing the Arctic region for shipping, pledging to build a polar silk road over a five year plan from 2021 to 2025.

16 (21m 14s):
There could be this complete reconfiguring of the globe to connect kind of the west with the east in some sense where there's a lot of speculation when this is happening. And these roots are also susceptible to geopolitics. Russia,

21 (21m 27s):
China and the United States are leading the charge to take control of the immense natural resources and new trade routes that are opening up even as a potential climate catastrophe takes hold. So on.

16 (21m 39s):
So it's unclear whether, you know, these are gonna be substitutes or compliments, but the world is reconfiguring and the melting of these ice caps is doing quite a bit of a change in some of these routes.

1 (21m 50s):
I wanna, I wanna be on the record here saying that I think climate change is bad. However, the idea that like a whole new shipping route could open up that we've never had major transit through before, there is something incredible about that. Even as climate change is creating chaos for our old roots.

16 (22m 10s):
Yeah, and I like to emphasize, you know this, I'm not saying that climate change is good, but I'm trying to say it's come, it's changing kind of the face of the globe, literally. I mean, we are seeing things that are covered in, you know, 20 feet of ice now. Being open seas where you can potentially see large container ships plying their wares. Literally what explorers in 1450 thought might actually now become reality in some sense. It is interesting and it's very clear that both firms and countries are actively planning for this new future.

1 (22m 46s):
Alright, so all of this, all of this insecurity and shipping makes me wonder whether or not some of the newer technologies and ways of moving things that we have, like roads and planes, large trucks, do we really need, do we really need to save shipping if we've got our, our trains and planes and automobiles?

16 (23m 5s):
I don't know if you remember there was that volcano explosion in Iceland, and I cannot pronounce the name of the volcano for the life of me.

22 (23m 14s):
Six levels, IA yogurt

16 (23m 17s):
That shut down air freight through Western Europe for a good month.

23 (23m 21s):
This is the plume from the air, a massive cloud of ash following the winds and weather patterns right across the Atlantic. The same route the planes fly.

16 (23m 30s):
It's, it's, you know, we've got these technologies. Trucks are, are have this one downside, which is right now trucks cannot really scale to the level of global trade flows. A truck has a driver and the driver really can't drive more than one or two containers at a time. So they're really, really limited. Our roads are congested and they're limited. Now trains. Trains are great. Trains are kind of how the us you know, what did manifest destiny? It's kind of how China is modernizing, but freight railroads are not that big really outside of the United States.

16 (24m 12s):
It's actually quite remarkable how important freight railroads are to the US but are not really used that frequently, for example, in parts of Europe. So it's not clear they can scale because many countries have prioritized passengers over freight on the rails. And then finally, air freight and truck shipping is incredibly expensive. Mm. Putting stuff on a ship and shipping it around the world is dirt cheap and we just simply have no substitute for that cheap shipping cost.

1 (24m 44s):
Do you think it's time for like an infrastructure renaissance? Everything's kind of breaking down, you know, and except for that, that beautiful northwest passage, but it sort of seems like, okay, everything's old now. We should, we should just spit, shine all of it.

16 (24m 58s):
Yeah, so I mean, I live on the east coast of the United States. I regularly ride rail tracks that are a hundred years old using signaling that's falling apart. And you know, just on a daily basis, the train I ride from, let's say DC to New York isn't that much faster than the same train in the Roosevelt administration seven years Ago. So a lot of our infrastructure, our roads, or railroads or harbors around the world is maybe older. Some of it is also built for a world without climate change. So it's susceptible to flooding sea level rise, or it's built for a world where global conflict was not supposed to take the current form.

16 (25m 40s):
But shipping and global value chains are incredibly important. And while there might be some backtracking, it's not as if we're gonna completely go back to a world where everyone makes everything at home. And so this gives us incredible opportunities to build potential new infrastructure, new roads, new harbors to be both climate and conflict resilient.

1 (26m 18s):
Ot, Ana Patti, international Economics, Georgetown School of Foreign Service. Today's episode is produced by Jesse Alejandro Cottrell and Halima Shaw. Matthew collect, edited Laura Bollard FactCheck and Patrick Boyd engineered. The rest of our team includes Amanda Lewellen, Haddi mdi, Isha Artsy, Victoria Chamberlain, miles Bryan, Rob Byers, executive producer Miranda Kennedy, supervising editor Amina El, and our man in Argentina, Sean Rames firm. We use music by Breakmaster Cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld. And we're distributed to public radio stations across these United States. In partnership with WNYC in New York today explained as Part of the Vox Media Podcast Network. And I'm Noel King.