4 (1s):
What would you do? If you found out your family had a dark secret Legacy from Micha green and Jordan Peele comes HBO's newest series Lovecraft country genre-bending drama that blurs the line between science fiction and reality in 1950s. Jim Crow America starring Jonathan Majors Jurnee Smollett Courtney Vance and Michael Kenneth Williams Lovecraft country airs Sundays at 9 p.m. On HBO and stream it on HBO Max.

1 (42s):
I'm Sean Rama's permits today explained in today's shows a little different from the 600 something that came before it because today for the first time I interviewed a journalist who couldn't tell me where he was when we spoke and he couldn't tell me because it wasn't safe. I I decided that this specific moment I can do much more if I will be free. I would be definitely in jail if I would stay so now I Help my colleagues journalists are being in the secure place and I don't forget where I am. It doesn't matter the most important that me my friends and my team we all work for giving people through information.

1 (1m 23s):
This is for knock Viet Orca. He's a journalist from Belarus where there was an election on Sunday the country's long time leader Alexander lukashenko claims to have won his sixth term in a landslide. The people are protesting. In the streets saying the whole thing was rigged. His opponent has now fled the country and some think this could be the beginning of the end of a guy who's been called Europe's last dictator everything began actually in 1994 when president lukashenko became the president and 26 years after a people realized they don't want him anymore.

1 (2m 5s):
Of course, there were many protests, but this one is very Unique because the level of support for lukashenko is extremely low and the major factor of this change is covid and lukashenko from the very beginning. He said that Covetous hoax Covetous fake. It doesn't exist

4 (2m 30s):
anywhere you like there is no virus here. He said do you see them flying around refusing to? To cancel large events

1 (2m 40s):
and he didn't take any serious steps to prevent disease convincing people that you have to drink what car you have to write tractor and these guys who died they died because they affect their old. So this this outraged many people because they are relatives their families who are in hospitals and then president showed them that he doesn't care and people then organize themselves they say, okay, If you don't care, then we will help our doctors and we will help ourselves. How do people help themselves defeat covid and valorous. They began collecting money on different online platforms money to buy masks protective gears some stuff to help hospitals.

1 (3m 30s):
And that was like the something very new for better sense. They are always relying on the government on the leader. On someone who must help must support who must solve all the problems they need a savior and lukashenko was the Savior for many years. He was always saying I will help you. I'm in charge of this and that was the part of the social contract but not anymore lukashenko just isolated himself people took responsibility and people created infrastructure for the Civil

3 (4m 4s):
Society.

1 (4m 9s):
And those protests that are happening right now. This is continuation of this people self organization during covid crisis the same people who were gathering money for doctors now Gathering money for political prisoners for those wounded injured for families of killed ones and it's spectacular. So when people decide to take sort of this control of covid into their own hands, who do they begin?

4 (4m 38s):
To

1 (4m 38s):
support as opposed to lukashenko. I think it was very leaderless from the very beginning but when electoral campaign was announced YouTuber applied former Banker the CEO of valgus from bunk valedictory barbarika also applied for presidency while the other sub kala former pier and lukashenka's made applied for presidency. What happens to all of them? They run lukashenko was very outraged with this because no one can challenge him. And now these guys all of them are in prison or like whether it's Abdullah is on immigration, but when YouTubers are here to handle scheme the guy who was recording video about the life of belarusians when they put him in custody and his wife when I almost was arrested.

1 (5m 35s):
She said okay if my husband In jail, then I will apply documents and his behalf and she applied and she became the candidate she is candidate by

3 (5m 47s):
accident.

1 (5m 53s):
And what is her name? Her name is Svetlana tejanos can let Lana Tegan Askia. She's housewife English language teacher by training never interested involved in politics. Absolutely new person in the research life. She became the symbol and also the ambassador of those who are in

4 (6m 12s):
prison. Everything is destroying step by step very slowly. But destroying while our government while people who are in the power they are becoming richer richer richer and richer as

1 (6m 27s):
and after other candidates were not registered or put in jail, they decided to do to choose her as the unified opposition candidate and this is how she became this. Hero for many delusions go into the streets

4 (6m 41s):
nowadays. I'm sure that this year will be different than in this year in couple of days. Our Central commission will count properly because they see the mood of people

1 (6m 55s):
how unorthodox is it for a woman to run as the sort of Savior of Belarus. Absolutely unique. There are many many people saying about importance of Involving females in politics, but no one really trusted women to lead and this really made campaign so powerful and so beautiful. It's you can also has surrounded herself with another wife of imprisoned candidate and chairman of a Victor barbarika this female Trio we call them they organized massive gatherings in provinces thousands of people showed up 65,000 came in Minsk.

1 (7m 37s):
That was the Biggest protests since 1991 belarusians gathered to protest against Soviet Union for Independence and Revolution by this became not only pro-democracy attic. It also became Pro female. I would even say female Revolution. What was the campaign like how did things go leading up to Sunday's election had a lukashenko treat his new opponent. This this leader of a female Revolution Belarus. Lukashenko doesn't believe female can do politics. He always said that a woman must be protecting her house and raising kids and Men Must lead the country.

1 (8m 21s):
Yes. It was pretty popular opinion in 90s when lukashenko came to power but lukashenko didn't realize that With 2020s different time and this patriarchal, you know conservative views are not popular anymore. Okay. So how did the election go on Sunday on Sunday morning? We found out that 43 percent already voted. Sorry on Sunday those who didn't want early and they came and they found that many of them voted already. What can just imagine how observers shocked we're shocked? But when observers began raised the concerns and asking what was going on why it happened police arrested observers.

1 (9m 7s):
This is Belarus democracy. And what do things look like by Sunday night many people didn't manage to vote commission's we're closed earlier and people were waiting near the station upset that the only thing is they they they get they got there was the final protocol showed lukashenko. That more than 80 percent of votes. So basically what we have here is by Sunday night, you've got election observers being arrested throughout the country. You have people showing up to vote and finding out that they have already voted somehow. So you've got widespread election fraud and then in an election that you thought was going to be seriously contested.

1 (9m 49s):
You've got an 80% Landslide victory for lukashenko and that was the spark for the protest on the first day.

4 (10m 1s):
Until the ribs an election turned violent almost assumes the polling stations closed Security Forces used tear gas stun grenades and rubber bullets of crowds poured onto the streets in protest.

1 (10m 18s):
On Sunday night of these people were gathering in Minsk they came there because of the exit poll results, you know, you're cheating has what happened on Monday more people showed up, but all the downtown now on Monday was closed was blocked soldiers. We are very aggressive this time the Special Operation group of the recent KGB. I

4 (10m 48s):
took the guns and began shooting rubber

1 (10m 51s):
bullets, right? Yeah, and the people they shot where journalists and friends of mine were wounded injured. They're still in hospital. Some of them are disappeared after this authorities didn't want anyone to know what's happening and you people will join and then you were joining. So it's it was like police we're not able to do anything with them. They were not able to arrest

4 (11m 16s):
everyone.

1 (11m 27s):
Protests on Monday lasted the whole night and in some cities they continue to even Tuesday morning. We knew that hundreds are wounded and we also knew that you can also scale is not the means already. You can also see a presidential candidate. She left she fled Belarus for for Vilnius Lithuania, which is nearby it's three hours drive. She read the statement from the paper. I

4 (11m 55s):
made a very difficult decision for myself. And I've made it that is absolutely

1 (12m 0s):
independently creating the new the state's TV channels from propaganda showed the video where technological says that not giving up a mood

4 (12m 9s):
many will understand me many will denounce me be with me and many will hate me is that so but God forbid anyone should face the choice that I faced.

1 (12m 22s):
Hmm, of course, she was speaking like a hostage. And the text was not written by her for sure. The one the question is what she was shown. My personal feeling is that she was shown perhaps the tortures over her husband in prison, perhaps she was offered the choice or the people will be shot and killed or she will flee but she she made the choice to leave. I think she was blackmailed with something. We don't know and perhaps you'll never tell As this that's that's very standard KGB tactic, you know to to to give you two unacceptable choices.

1 (13m 12s):
more with four knock after the

3 (13m 13s):
break

4 (13m 29s):
What would you do? If you found out your family had a dark secret Legacy for Micha green and Jordan Peele comes HBO's newest series Lovecraft country the genre-bending drama which blurs the lines between science fiction and reality follows a young man named Atticus who along with his friend Leticia and Uncle George goes on a journey across 1950s Jim Crow America to find his missing father the search and rescue mission turns into a struggle to survive as they try to overcome. The Terrors of White America and otherworldly lovecraftian monsters along the way they Forge their own paths to reclaim their power and find their true selves Lovecraft country explores.

4 (14m 10s):
The themes of family race in history taking viewers to unexpected new places in time or space in each episode starring Jonathan Majors Jurnee Smollett Courtney be Vance and Michael Kenneth Williams Lovecraft country are Sundays at 9 p.m. On HBO and stream it on HBO Max and listen to the Lovecraft. entry Companion podcast hosted by Shannon Houston and Ashley C ford available on all major podcast platforms

1 (14m 48s):
Track what do people who aren't terribly familiar with Belarus need to know to really understand everything that's going on there right. Now. First of all, the other says strategically important country in the center of Europe. It was the epicenter from of most violent brutal deadly battles during the Stalin repressions and anti-hitler repressions as well. This is the country where the West and East are meeting and clashing in the Middle Ages. It was the biggest European Empire called Grand duchy of Lithuania, but Belarus was divided between Poland and Soviets in 20 centering Belarus has it's fantastic unique culture.

1 (15m 39s):
It's a half Baltic have Slavic in the Soviet time. It was crucified and Soviet sized basically Soviets and Russians took out our identity and made us similar to Russian. But later we after 90s after we got Independence Way We revived identity and we don't belong to Russian civilizations. And even if you travel you can see the city on bail. Through sight and on Russian side. This is where the border between Europe and Asia

3 (16m 9s):
lace.

1 (16m 14s):
So tell me how long does Belarus have its independence before lukashenko comes to power the fact that was three years only three years of very tough time for blurs economy people were poor and they were looking for someone who will save them and lukashenko. He said I know the problem is because this capitalist is so rich guy. They took all your money. I will give you the old back and Here are nationalized all the companies he built basically in socialism again. He deprives people of possibility of having private property in Australia came to power next year.

1 (16m 54s):
He dismissed the Parliament and he gave president the unlimited power the next year after he was elected. He conducted referendum which was rigged as well and this referendum made Belarus presidential Republic instead of parliamentary Republic. And the first decision of lukashenko after this referendum was to dismiss Parliament and since then he's the only one who can decide on everything but does he ever have popular support or is he always sort of a repressive dictator? He was popular because of propaganda primarily because he put all the opponents in jail journalist in jail, you know, I was in jail four times during lukashenka's Iran.

1 (17m 36s):
Wow, I understand. Why you left this time? Yes, how important is the relationship? Should between Belarus and Russia over the past 26 years over the course of lukashenka's rain lukashenko dreamt of becoming the president of Russia. Hmm. He came to power with the idea of creating a Union state with Russian. He was extremely popular there and in 1996. He declared the union with Russia with Yeltsin and he hoped that Yeltsin will call him the The follower the the continue ater not Putin but Yeltsin chose foot instead of lukashenko which which made him frustrated and this is also the reason why Putin lukashenko has such a difficult relationship.

1 (18m 29s):
What's the relationship like between Putin and lukashenko on one hand they hate each other on the other hand their symbiotic. Hmm. And how did that work in this latest election Putin was among the first who congratulated lukashenko on the victory. Putting needs lukashenko and he doesn't want any revolution in Belarus. If Revolution will happen in Belarus pro-western the revolution as we see right now, then other regions in Russia will also rise. Hmm. So despite the sort of contentious relationship between Putin and lukashenko Putin supports him because at least he's obedient. He is obedient exactly and he's predictable they know each other they they exist thanks to each other, you know, they their symbiotic Seems so what does that mean for the next weeks and months was this election a total failure or did something significant and you know lasting transpire for me there is no doubt that this is the end of lukashenka's regime, but it can take weeks months and years.

1 (19m 36s):
There are many variables many factors International reaction the position of arm.

4 (19m 42s):
And

1 (19m 42s):
Military the elites if lukashenko will continue keeping situation under control and killing people on the streets that can suppress but also that can spark new protests and you revolts perhaps the revolution will happen not in means but in regions we don't know but it's definitely lukashenko will never get back to the previous situation. It will never be as it was before, you know, the red line is crossed. The issues how to avoid more victims and how to facilitate and catalyze in the speed up this process of our Transit.

1 (20m 24s):
Do you have any idea when you might be able to return to Belarus? That's a good question. I don't know everything is so unpredictable. So unclear and it's difficult to see well, I appreciate your time and I wish you all the best and I hope we can be in touch as this movement plays out and maybe the the reign of lukashenko comes to an end. I hope so, too. Thank you.

4 (20m 52s):
Much

1 (20m 59s):
for naqvi acorah is a journalist who's usually based in Minsk Belarus. Doesn't it explained?

4 (21m 20s):
What would you do? If you found out your family had a dark secret Legacy from Micha green and Jordan Peele comes HBO's newest series Lovecraft country genre-bending drama that blurs the line between science fiction and reality in 1950s. Jim Crow America starring Jonathan Majors Jurnee Smollett Courtney be Vans and Michael Kenneth Williams Lovecraft country airs Sundays at 9 p.m. On HBO and stream it on HBO Max and listen to the Lovecraft country Companion podcast. Just posted by Shannon Houston and Ashley C ford available on all major podcast platforms.