1 (2s):
This year, the Federal Reserve has raised interest rates four times the Fed did. So to fight the nineish percent inflation, that's making life, groceries, gas, cars, furniture, all the things, a lot more expensive. But there's a trade off when interest rates go up, jobs take a hit. The Fed talks about this trade off all the time. There is a thing they talk about far less who is going to lose jobs.

2 (26s):
Black Americans face twice the unemployment as white Americans. No matter what kind of an economy we have a booming economy or a recession.

1 (34s):
This is not something the Fed talks about all the time. Although these conversations are happening at high level meetings and at dinners,

3 (41s):
The sort of agreed upon vibe was one of just feeling really, really bad about

1 (47s):
It. Coming up on today, explained the devil's bargain we make to fight inflation and we get to ask a Federal Reserve bank president whether we can do anything other than feel really, really bad about it.

4 (59s):
Cover story from New York Magazine is back. I'm Hannah Rosen, host of Season two Seed Money. This season we have a story about a billionaire and ex buy many, many women. It's

5 (1m 13s):
Almost like he's using all the women as a startup company.

4 (1m 16s):
And so, so many lies.

6 (1m 18s):
If I can't stop him, I don't think anybody will be able to stop him.

4 (1m 23s):
Cover story Season two, Seed Money Coming October 25th, Hear the trailer and follow us wherever you listen to podcasts.

7 (1m 33s):
When the Me Too movement took off, a group of famous, powerful women in Hollywood, including Oprah, rallied behind this group called Times Up. But you don't hear about Time's Up these days

8 (1m 46s):
When a friend does something that they, that's sort of embarrassing. People will just kind of like not talk about

7 (1m 51s):
That friend.

8 (1m 52s):
Time's Up is this is like that friend. We don't talk about

7 (1m 57s):
What happened to Times Up. And Me Too, this week on Into it Vultures Culture podcast.

1 (2m 14s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King, Talman Smith Economics reporter at the New York Times. Back in late August. I read with Fascination an article that you wrote about what might happen if the US goes into a recession because of interest rate hikes. Now you know that a recession is bad for workers in general, but you look specifically at how black workers would be affected. Why did you do that?

3 (2m 36s):
So when you think about workers and the economy, often you can easily get caught in thinking about things in terms of aggregates. But of course, nobody lives in an aggregate world. We all operate within particular segments of society, particular walks of life. We're all from unique and different communities. It just so happens that for black workers, for the black community, there is a remarkable consistency going back decades and decades that the black unemployment rate runs usually about twice the white unemployment rate. And in fact, in certain decades, the black unemployment rate runs at twice the general unemployment rate as well, the one that we see on headlines month after month.

3 (3m 24s):
And so I was attracted to this story because essentially we are at a point in the Fed's inflation fight where there is a consensus view that there is going to be some sort of trade off between lowering inflation and a rise in unemployment or just a general weakening in the labor market. That's sort of a way of saying that in order to achieve price stability, at least in the short term American society may require double digit black unemployment. And I wanted to really ask myself as an establishment economics reporter, right?

3 (4m 5s):
It doesn't get any more mainstream than the paper that I'm at outside of me. Ask Society, what does that mean and why is that the case?

1 (4m 16s):
Why is the black unemployment rate consistently so much higher twice? What's going on?

3 (4m 23s):
Well, it's a pretty straightforward story. So the numbers would suggest that, you know, if you're black, you're much more likely to be experiencing poverty. You're less likely to have formal education. You may have certain barriers to employment like past arrests or incarceration. And we see that through a mix of coincidence, but also structural disadvantage, that throughout many decades the black community has been subject to all of those misfortunes. But beyond the fact that the past reverberates the present economic research in the past, I'd say two decades, has found a name that just reads culturally as African-American can actually count as a penalty against an applicant that has the same exact credentials, qualifications in some studies, the same exact resume as a gentleman or a woman that has a name that reads as white.

9 (5m 19s):
We now realize the way racial bias can infect us even when we don't realize it. So that we're guarding against not just racial slurs, but we're also guarding against this subtle impulse to call Johnny back for a job interview but not Jamal.

1 (5m 37s):
Tell me how long this has been going on. How long has it been the case that the black unemployment rate is twice the white unemployment

3 (5m 43s):
Rate? As long as the government's been tracking it, Jesus, which is, you know, quite shocking. There's been variability, but it's consistent. When you look at other indicators of economic inequality that pair and correlate with race, it shouldn't come as a shock. But that doesn't mean that it's not sobering.

1 (6m 3s):
Let's talk about where we were even a year ago. Tell before inflation became hot, before Americans had the sense that the economy was spiraling. How had black workers in the US been faring?

3 (6m 14s):
We saw in the post pandemic recession or the the initial post pandemic recession recovery that black workers made, ultimately modest in the scope of time, modest but meaningful gains, the

10 (6m 30s):
Nation's largest retailer. Walmart announced today that it's giving up pay raise to hundreds of thousands of its employees.

3 (6m 37s):
You saw workers not only just earn more pay, but go from, you know, being in certain forms of insecure service work to finding jobs that are more stable, that all from more benefits to the extent there was and is a Biden boom. Black workers were chief beneficiaries of it.

11 (6m 56s):
And this is specifically benefiting some of these more marginalized groups which have historically taken longer to recover out of previous recessions. And I wanna cast the light specifically on black employment. Now, when you take a look

3 (7m 8s):
Without dipping into the hindsight 2020 back and forth over what exact policies led to inflation, one thing that is for certain is that if the government decided to only lean on the Covid vaccine rollout as the chief way to normalize the economy and spur growth, it probably would not have been enough for black workers to get ahead.

1 (7m 34s):
Okay, so there's all this money sloshing into the economy as a result of government policy workers start making more money that includes black workers, but then we get inflation and the Fed in response starts raising interest rates and then what happens? Tell how are those interest rate hikes? There have been four of them this year affecting black employment today.

3 (7m 55s):
So we're seeing that the amount of job gains is decreasing in recent months, but it's still incredibly strong compared to even the pre pandemic status quo. And yet considering how quickly and how aggressively the Fed has moved to tighten what's they call financial conditions, right, it still remains true that their policies work with a lagged effect. So we might not see whether we end up just in a murky, muddling along downturn that doesn't quite qualify as a recession or whether we'll end up in a full blown recession.

3 (8m 38s):
They know that regardless of what happens, that black folks and other historically discriminated against groups will have a tougher time.

1 (8m 48s):
There has to be a conversation at the policy level about whether there is any other tool that could control inflation besides rate hikes. Because rate hikes are going to lead to 10% black unemployment or some level of black unemployment that is just, it's too high. What are the conversations around guys and gals find something else? We're not doing rate hikes if this is what, what it's gonna mean for black Americans.

3 (9m 15s):
Late this summer, I was talking with a a prominent black female economist who has been very high up in the Washington, DC think tank world, and who remains very well connected in policy making spaces on the hill, and knows many people in the administration. And without violating her off the record guarantees, she was able to tell me in general terms about, you know, a dinner that she had with some of these prominent thought leaders and policy makers. And everybody was white except for her. They were all wrestling with the thing that all economists are wrestling with right now, which is achieving price stability without breaking the entire economy.

3 (9m 59s):
And I think as she put it, there was a certain amount of statistical fatalism, huh? Which is a phrase I really like that look, trade offs are hard and it seems that at least temporarily we might need to see unemployment go higher. We need to see the labor market loosen. And she pointed out the racial disparities that could and likely will result. And as you can imagine, was very awkward. And I think many black professionals of all types when pointing out disparities in a room full of white peers have, you know, probably felt what she felt in that moment. There was sort of this, well, we're at an impass here and the sort of agreed upon vibe was one of just feeling really, really bad about it.

3 (10m 45s):
And she told me, I, you know, that she felt like she was at a loss. I think of it a little bit like gentrification. Everybody's like, Oh my goodness, we feel so bad about it, but like, you know, we're not gonna stop gentrifying. Right? Yeah. One of the, you know, oldest tropes in monetary policy, which is the wheelhouse of the Federal Reserve, is that it's the job of the Federal Reserve to pull the punch bowl away at the party just as it's getting started. Just when things are getting a little bit too loose, everybody's getting a little too happy, conversation's flowing, couple people start dancing, Oh, let's, let's reign it in here, right?

3 (11m 25s):
That's the job of the Federal Reserve to be the sober manager of the economy, the designated drivers, so to speak. And frankly, I like that little fable and I think it is a pretty helpful shorthand, but what it makes me think of is, well, what about all the people that didn't even get to the party yet?

1 (11m 44s):
Yeah,

3 (11m 44s):
Yes. Or the people that got to the party but have only had like a sip or two of their drink. What does it mean that every single party they go to, to just as it's getting started, the Federal Reserve is pulling the punch bowl. And in that expanded fable of mine, my dark little twisted world, I mean, that's Shonda, that's Jamal, that's, you know, Jose, that's the white guy named Rick. But like who you know, has a prior rest and only has a high school education. I mean, these are the people that in the management of the business cycle lose out when that punch bowl is pulled away.

1 (12m 27s):
Coming up, Neil Cush Kari, president of the Minneapolis Fed and one of the people deciding when the Punch Bowl gets taken away.

13 (12m 41s):
Fox Creative,

14 (12m 43s):
This is advertiser content from the American Cancer Society.

15 (12m 47s):
My name's Christine Tasara, I'm a cancer survivor. My brother Jason was diagnosed with lymphoma when he was 15. So it kind of left a really, really big gap when he passed away. Even though he went through that, I never really thought about health that much. Like, yeah, I'm healthy, I'm gonna be fine. It started out as fevers every night and then it escalated to like being out of breath. My heart rate would get really fast. So at that point was like, okay, I should get this checked out. They drew my blood and then the doctor came in and said, it's leukemia. I

14 (13m 23s):
Was like,

15 (13m 24s):
That's, that's cancer, right? But that can't be possible because we already did that. I was 20 years old.

14 (13m 32s):
Cancer can happen to anyone at any age. In 2022, it's estimated that more than 1.9 million new cancer cases will emerge in the American Cancer Society will be there advocating for health equity and affordable healthcare funding, breakthrough research that saves lives in providing essential day-to-day patient support.

15 (13m 52s):
The people who work at ACS we're always super helpful, like finding resources. If I couldn't figure out my health insurance, like they were the best at figuring all that

14 (14m 1s):
Out, donate, fundraise, volunteer, visit cancer.org/get involved. The American Cancer Society, Every Cancer, Every life.

12 (14m 13s):
Hey, it's Shawney Lang, host of the Gray area,

16 (14m 17s):
One whipping

12 (14m 17s):
Up the hatred. Our world is full of takes because

17 (14m 20s):
Of the high gas prices.

12 (14m 22s):
You need more and lots and lots of noise.

18 (14m 25s):
All the dumb people decided one day like pronouns are bad.

12 (14m 29s):
But things are rarely that simple. It's not that the truth is in the middle, it's that we're all living in a very uncertain world and there are more questions than answers.

19 (14m 39s):
I think it's important to acknowledge that we live in a pluralistic society where norms and visions and values of what is most important will never be reconciled totally among

12 (14m 52s):
Us.

20 (14m 52s):
Part of this problem of polarization is that people feel safe talking about ever fewer things.

12 (14m 57s):
Do you think our relationships could remain intact if we were totally transparent about everything? I think it would lead to some bumpiness. That's one way to put it. Embrace the bumpiness and join me, Sean Eing, host of the Gray area each Monday and Thursday for conversations about culture, politics, and the good life.

1 (15m 21s):
Let's begin with you telling me your full name and what you do.

2 (15m 25s):
My name is Neil Kashkar. I am president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. What

1 (15m 30s):
Does your job entail?

2 (15m 31s):
My job is to lead the Minneapolis Fed, which is one of 12 independent federal reserve banks spread out across the country. And our job is to represent this region. We're the ninth Federal Reserve District, and that's Minnesota, North and South Dakota, Montana, the upper peninsula of Michigan and northwestern Wisconsin. We try to monitor the overall economy's activity and then I participate in the federal open market committee meetings every six weeks when we set interest rates for the nation. Part of my job is to make sure that my region is represented in that deliberative process.

1 (16m 4s):
A couple years back, Neil, the Fed started talking not just about unemployment in the US but about black unemployment in the us Almost like it was a separate thing. Now we were just talking to Tom Smith from the New York Times and we learned that it is arguably a separate thing because it's usually twice what white unemployment is. I remember you as one of the people who started drawing focus to this, started saying, this is important to pay attention to. Why did you do that?

2 (16m 31s):
You know, for the years before the pandemic hit, we kept getting surprise. We thought that the economy was at full or what we call maximum employment. Everybody who wants a job has a job. We were hearing that from businesses that they couldn't find workers, and yet the economy continued to grow. People continue to find jobs and inflation didn't materialize. So that told us, well wait a second, there must be more workers out there than we were realizing. And I would go into low income communities and communities of color and African American communities, and I met many groups that said, Hey, we don't have jobs or we're stuck in a part-time job. We want more work. So there seemed to be a disconnect. And it seemed as though those average statistics that we look at for the nation were hiding really important pockets of labor and hiding people who wanted to contribute more to our economy.

2 (17m 22s):
And that matters a lot for the Federal Reserve to understand what our economy's potential is.

1 (17m 28s):
As a matter of fact, you, you got so invested in this that at one point I remember you spent a day, correct me if I'm wrong, I'm trying to figure out exactly what happened here. But I think you spent a day living with a, b, a black family in Minnesota who was struggling to make ends meet. Can you tell me a little bit about that?

2 (17m 45s):
There's a group called Fed Up, which is a group of labor activists in the country. They had a local chapter in North Minneapolis called Neighborhoods Organizing for Change. And there'd been a lot of heated discussions with the Federal Reserve and a lot of criticism of the Federal Reserve. And I said, Hey, I want to go meet them, so will you please organize a meeting for me? I'll come and meet with your leaders, but I also wanna meet with the families that you represent. And so then I went up there and we spent an afternoon together and it was a wonderful afternoon. I mean, we had very honest conversations. They shared with me what they were experiencing day to day, trying to get jobs. And you know, I just come from meetings with businesses who were telling me they can't find workers.

2 (18m 27s):
And I realized there's a big gap. There's a big disconnect between what we're hearing from businesses, who we tend to focus on and what workers are actually experiencing. And the more time I spend in North Minneapolis with people who live there and with families and community leaders, the more I realized this is a really important part of America. We as a Federal Reserve do not have enough visibility into, is actually quarter our jobs. One of our jobs is to understand the economy's potential. And if we don't fully appreciate that there's potential that's untapped, then we're missing the big picture for the economy as a whole.

1 (19m 2s):
So when we say unemployment without cleaving off black unemployment, what you're saying is we miss a ton. You actually do have to get into that level of specifics to understand what's happening with this very large and important racial group in the us.

2 (19m 16s):
Absolutely. You know, just the name, the unemployment rate, the way it's calculated, you have to declare yourself that I am looking for a job to be counted as being unemployed. There are a lot of Americans who've been struggling for a long time and they've given up when a, the government accountant calls 'em and says, Are you looking for a job? They say, No, I'm not. They're missing, they're not included at all as though they don't count. And many folks, it turns out when a good job appears, when when one becomes available, turns out they go and they get it. And a lot of people who one month will say, I'm not looking for a job very next month, they will end up taking a job. And so our understanding of who actually is available to work, it's much, much more complex than just saying, Are you unemployed or not?

2 (20m 3s):
It's a, it's a much more complex question. And it's a very important question.

1 (20m 7s):
And let's talk about where we are now. So you know, Neil, that it's very perilous. The Federal Reserve is going to continue raising interest rates. That means black workers could see double digit unemployment rates, especially if the United States goes into a recession, which no one wants. You support the Fed's rate hikes. Why

2 (20m 27s):
I support the hikes, because we have to get the economy back into balance. The, the profound gains that we saw in 20 17, 18 and 19 were all made possible in the context of an overall stable economy with low and controlled inflation. We went through the rapid pandemic, we went through the shutdown, we've got this uneven reopening, we have this massive inflation. And you know who inflation is hitting the worst. It's hitting the low income families, the worst because they have the least flexibility to be able to adjust their behavior to change and respond to it. So if you're a higher income family, maybe you shopped at a premium grocery store and now you shift to a lower cost grocery store, or maybe you bought premium goods and now you buy the low cost goods to save money.

2 (21m 13s):
Well, if you're the low income family that was already buying the low income goods at the low income grocery store, what do you do? You can't do anything. You still need to put food on the table. You need to put gas in your car. And so inflation right now is damaging and hurting all Americans, but it's disproportionately hurting the lowest income Americans. And so the Federal Reserve, we have to do our part to get the economy back into balance, to get inflation back down to 2% so that we can get back to that Goldilocks economy of 2% inflation. But a really strong labor market for low income families especially.

1 (21m 49s):
But is it worse to have a smaller paycheck due to inflation? I Is that really worse than having no paycheck at all? I mean, we're talking about people being thrown out of their jobs. We know it's gonna happen.

2 (22m 2s):
There's not an easy answer, but I'll say it this way. Inflation literally affects everybody. The devastation of unemployment, unfortunately, fortunately and unfortunately affects a smaller number of people. And it's easier for the government to target assistance to those smaller number of people than it is to try to support all of the American people who are facing this high inflation. So there's an issue of numbers, but it's, that's not an easy story to tell somebody who's, who loses their job. Yeah, because for them it's overwhelming. But I'll, let me offer one other perspective. I reach out to a lot of labor groups, organized labor workers at a recent round table I had of labor union leaders in Minnesota, a labor leader who represents low income service workers, made the following statement to me, and I was surprised by it.

2 (22m 50s):
She said, Inflation is much worse for our low income members than is a recession. And I said, I don't understand that. Explain that to me. How can inflation be worse than a recession? No, for the very reasons you just said. And she said, Because our members know how to deal with the recession, They lose their job. This happens all the time. They rely on family and friends. They help each other get through it because they're not all losing their jobs at the same time. The difference is with inflation, they all get hit by inflation and there's no one to turn to for help. Now I know I've got other friends in the labor movement who have a very different view of this topic. It's a very complicated topic and I, and there are no easy answers, but I do know we cannot allow 9% inflation to continue in the American economy.

2 (23m 38s):
That is not gonna be good for workers in the long

1 (23m 40s):
Term. I wonder if I can kind of push you at the macro level. You, you gals and guys in the Fed are very smart people. There's a lot of PhDs in the room. At any fed meeting, I would venture two of the 12 Fed presidents at this point in history are black. Why is doing a thing that will clobber one segment of American society, black workers and their families, the only solution you have?

2 (24m 1s):
Well, where does inflation come from? It comes from a mismatch between supply and demand. Demand for goods and services in the American economy is far outstripping our economy's ability to supply it at the Fed. The only tools we have are demand tools. We can increase demand or lower demand by raising and lowering interest rates so we can bring demand down. Our hope is that we get some help on the supply side. More workers come off the sidelines. There's more supply chains, they're less gummed up because of covid. More people feel confident to go back to work because vaccines have been highly effective. All of those things should boost the supply side of the economy. And then we will have to do less work on the demand side to bring those two things down.

2 (24m 45s):
But the demand tools are the only tools we at the Fed have. Other policy makers potentially have tools that they could help on the supply side.

1 (24m 53s):
When you sit in a room with a lot of smart people or you're on a zoom with a lot of smart people, the discussion isn't around, what else could we try it? It sounds like this is what we have,

2 (25m 5s):
This is the one tool that we have, but we are very vocal and you know, I speak to members of Congress and senators from my region all the time, both sides of the aisle talking about these exact same issues, talking about these trade offs and saying, we need whatever help we can get on the supply side of the economy so that it's not simply up to the Federal Reserve to lower demand to bring these two things into balance for the very reasons that you say,

1 (25m 30s):
Does the Federal Reserve care about black people?

2 (25m 33s):
Absolutely. Absolutely. The reason that I've made such an emphasis and many of my colleagues have too over the last seven or eight years to go into black communities and other communities of color, is we wanna make sure that we are hearing directly from important constituents that we are charged to serve. We are charged to represent them. They matter to the economy, they matter to the country, they matter to the Federal Reserve. Ultimately, we have very blunt tools. Ultimately, we cannot set a different interest rate for black Americans and white Americans. We have to pick monetary policy for the country as a whole. But we wanna make sure that we have good visibility into all of these different communities because they matter.

1 (26m 25s):
Today's show was produced by Miles Bryan and edited by Matthew Colette. It was engineered by a theme, Shapiro and Rigorously Fact checked by Laura Bullard. The rest of our team includes Halima Shawona Petros, Jti Modi, Victoria Chamberlain, Abha Artsy, and my co-host Sean Ramas firm. Our supervising producer is Amina Elsa. We use music by Breakmaster Cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld. And we are distributed to public radio stations across these United States in partnership with W N Y C in New York. I'm Noelle King today explained as part of the Vox Media podcast network.