1 (7s):
Close your eyes touch your chest reach your hand out touch your chest chest chest. Over the summer I went to the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland to see a study take

3 (25s):
place

1 (29s):
and we go into a lab. It's a big white Square Room on the walls are dozen plus infrared cameras, and they're all pointing at the center. And in the center of the room. There is a desk and a chair and a woman strapped to the chair. What they're investigating here is extremely rare and is something that really made me think a lot about what does it mean to have a body? All eyes and all these cameras on this women the center of the room and she's asked to do a pretty simple test.

1 (1m 14s):
So out on the desk in front of her there's this cylinder. It's a black cylinder and there's a little piece of plastic. It's kind of like a motion-capture ball and she's asked to touch her sternum and then touch the ball. It's really unremarkable. Like okay, she touched it and then comes the hard part and they have her close her eyes. And it's like it was erased from her mind. She suddenly starts groping like to the left to the right kind of smacking it and when she does it kind of seems as though it was an accident.

1 (2m 1s):
This one was actually one of two sisters being studied. Id'd at the NIH and later on I saw the other sister performer walking

3 (2m 7s):
test

1 (2m 11s):
and then they had her try to walk in a straight line with her eyes closed and she just like gave this nervous smile and really it almost kind of look like she is being controlled like a marionette and it's funny because she later told me that while she is doing that. She was cheating that her eyes are open just a little smidgen because if she truly closed her eyes. All the way she doesn't know her legs are and she would just collapse but they told me is that when they close their eyes, they lose their

2 (2m 43s):
bodies. John John John. Yeah. Yeah what I kind of feel like we should give some context here. Okay? Yeah, so that was our friendly neighborhood science reporter here at vaux Brian Resnick. You are today explained reporter know I'm hasn't felt and you guys have been talking about this study. He saw and just listening to that. I'm wondering like when Brian said touch your chest now close your eyes and touch your chest. I had no problem doing that but these women can't they're struggling do I? Something that they don't you do. Yeah, it's a sense and it's called proprioception proprioception. Yeah, it's kind of like a sixth sense.

2 (3m 24s):
It's basically the sense of knowing where your body is in three dimensional space. Okay. You have a computer in front of you, right? Yeah. I got like a microphone and a computer. So close your eyes and touch the computer. Okay, easy, right? Yeah, you saw that you had a picture in your head of where it was and you remembered where it was the harder question though is how do you know where your fingertip is I guess I just have like an innate sense of it. That's proprioception. Huh? That's not just memory. It's related. We have memories for all of our senses. We can Envision what things look like. We can remember the smell but for people without proprioception they have nothing to remember and that's what led to this experiment.

2 (4m 8s):
We were hearing about at the top at the NIH. Yeah, exactly. They're basically studying proprioception there because it's sort of this Doorway to a mysterious. This universe, huh? We don't actually understand a lot about how proprioception works as well as it does in the body and studying. It could change the way we think about a lot of big scientific questions like how touch works or how pain works or even how Consciousness works and this is what you spoke to Brian about. Yeah, and at first he had some trouble putting it into words.

1 (4m 38s):
You just know right? It's actually really hard to think about. It's just an implicit when you close your

2 (4m 44s):
eyes.

1 (4m 46s):
It's not like the world. Disappears there's an impression of it that's proprioception proprioception is critical for that type of coordination where you can close your eyes and you can reach out and you can touch something because how else would you know, where it

2 (5m 0s):
is? This is new for me. I mean, I'm I imagine it's new for a lot of people listening. Yeah, how do we not know that we have this sense?

1 (5m 11s):
So with other senses they attenuate they go up and down. You can see bright things. You can see dim things proprioception never turns down. It's always at the same volume. It's always on so you don't notice

2 (5m 27s):
it. So is this an every day thing? Like, what do you actually use proprioception

1 (5m 32s):
for you use it to know like how far and how fast to reach out your arm you use proprioception to keep your spine straight these people without it. They have these horrible scoliotic posture every muscle. In your back needs to work in concert to keep your spine straight. If you just had a look at your legs the whole time while you are walking. You can look at anything else. There's like actually one example of a patient he lost his proprioception due to an illness

2 (6m 2s):
like Troy to learn to suit up for days weeks and I had terrible tummy pains and pulled muscle sort of felt like it was exceedingly frustrating. I've been sitting up for my life until that point and suddenly I was deprived of the simple Act of just sitting

1 (6m 16s):
Up and he had to learn to walk again by like watching his legs and seeing how far he would move

2 (6m 21s):
them. Look at move my hands a bit. But only if they were envisioned but as soon as I looked away, they would float

1 (6m 27s):
off like if he wasn't looking at his legs he couldn't

2 (6m 29s):
walk. So how does proprioception actually work in our body? What are the mechanics

1 (6m 36s):
here in every muscle of your body? You have this structure called a spindle where there's sensory nerves in the spindle, which are sensing how far your muscle has been stretched kind of like the doorbell to your nervous system saying hey, there's like a mechanical force here. Like you should feel it. You should feel it and every muscle of your body is sending this information to your spinal cord in your brain all the time. And if each muscle is telling the spinal cord and brain how far it stretched then the spinal cord and brain can do this computation and figure out where it is. The wildest thing is that no one understands how the brain and spinal cord.

1 (7m 17s):
Does this computation its massive and enormous and it happens nearly instantaneously and these women that I saw are part of the research effort to try to figure some of this out.

2 (7m 27s):
So these women did they have an injury. No, they have a

1 (7m 31s):
genetic condition. They're actually missing a receptor that is found on the nerves that enter the muscle spindle. And so they're missing this one thing and it kind of makes them blind. Option in a lot of ways, they're kind of like discovering the first blind or deaf people but they're the first people who are blind

2 (7m 49s):
proprioception. Hmm. How many of these people are there?

1 (7m 53s):
So the NIH has been scouring the world asking doctors around the world to like look out for these people and so far they found about

2 (8m 1s):
17. So if it's only a handful of people so far that have been discovered who are say blind to proprioception what our scientists hoping to get out of the research.

1 (8m 12s):
Well the Beauty of a lot of basic research in biology is just finding out how nature built something can help us learn how to build things. So a lot of the science at the NIH so they're doing is funded Under the Umbrella of like pain research and these researchers kind of want to get this almost Quantum level view of how we feel things and how we experience our bodies to better understand pain and to better find ways to treat it. There are also potential applications down the road like you can imagine in robotics like having robots that have better. Fluid motion and they can do these complex computations to find out like where their pieces are and all that. There's also applications for prosthesis scientists are getting better at giving people the ability to control like a prosthetic limb, but you don't close the loop.

1 (9m 1s):
They're not getting proprioceptive information back from those Limbs and that would be like really

2 (9m 5s):
critical and until we come up with some futuristic technology these women can they get around? And

1 (9m 12s):
they actually do have a proprioception of sorts and the researchers I talked to do say they generate like a three-dimensional map of their bodies. They just do it in a different way than you and me. So you and me are using the muscle spindles and finding out exactly where our limbs are at all times these women can use their Vision to compensate if they're looking at their arms or legs. They can do just fine and they had to learn how to do that. And that's the most remarkable thing. The brain does is compensate and working on this story and talking to these neuro scientists at I've become to think of Consciousness as a kind of like wizard stirring a potion you feed into this potion all these senses our site or Vision proprioception, but it's not like if you're missing an ingredient the potion goes bad.

1 (10m 6s):
This conjurer will always make Consciousness will always try to generate and compensate if scientists can make progress in this area it can give us Answers to the biggest question of all, what does it mean to be a

3 (10m 20s):
human?

2 (10m 29s):
After the break the

1 (10m 30s):
rest of that potion and why it's lying to

3 (10m 33s):
you. This is Advertiser content. Millennials are in debt like a trillion dollars in debt college is expensive rents are high and social media keeps telling us to treat ourselves yet. All this is hurting our wallets and our well-being your world

1 (11m 4s):
your world your world explained.

3 (11m 8s):
This is Millennial debt explained brought to you by LendingTree student loans High Cost of Living and credit card debt. Make up most of that trillion dollars that Millennials. Oh on top of that. Fomo fueled by social media has caused a third of Millennials to say they feel the need to spend to keep up with their friends even more astounding the impact of sustained debt is affecting their health studies show a third of Millennials suffer from anxiety or depression far more than ever before and over half of Millennials say their mental health suffers because of their debt figuring out finances can also feel like a black box think about student loans 65% of students say they didn't understand the terms of their loan when they got it.

3 (11m 48s):
It if getting your finances and check as part of your plan for 2020 check out lending trees Marketplace. They can help you consolidate debts find the right loan for you and get you on the path to financial Independence find out more at LendingTree.com. That's LendingTree.com.

2 (12m 10s):
Hi, I'm Jesse David Fox senior editor at vulture and host of the podcast good one a podcast about jokes every week. I interview a comedian writer performer about one of their jokes the joke income from their stand-up special Saturday Night Live sketch or song or even a book we break down the joke and figure out how it works what inspired it and what it says about their sense of humor for comedy fans. It's a serious discussion about the craft of jokes and for interview fans. It's a really funny conversation between two people who have a lot to say about comedy. For fans of sex advice podcasts might not be exactly what you're looking for, but maybe need something to talk about after all that sex. You're having new episodes a good one come out every Tuesday starting February 25th, subscribe for free on Apple podcast on your favorite podcast app from vulture in the VOX media podcast Network.

2 (12m 54s):
Have a

1 (12m 54s):
good one.

2 (13m 6s):
All right, we're back. No, I'm we have a better sense of where our bodies are. Now what's next? So Brian was talking about how proprioception is just one part of this strange concoction that creates Consciousness and basically makes us who we are. Yeah, we've got sight smell proprioception all the senses and they're working together to shape our experience. But even when we think they're working perfectly are Says come with these built-in flaws, which have some scary implications. Scary. Yeah, take site. For example, we think of our eyes as these cameras that capture the world exactly as it is, but our vision doesn't work like a live feed camera. It's actually pretty slow

1 (13m 47s):
site is slow because it has a lot to do in your brain before I could get put together so light enters our eyes, it's focused on the retina in the back of your eye the retina. Has like where we need to take the light and make it into something our brains can understand. So it makes this electrochemical signal your visual processing center is actually all the way in the back of your head. So that signal needs goes the front of you had to your back of your head. And then once it's in the back of your head, like it's always communicating with the front of your head too and it needs to go through all these different areas that kind of put a scene together like looks for edges. It looks for faces.

1 (14m 28s):
It looks for like salience and looks Or like understanding and contacts it's doing so so many things and it's using so many different parts of your brain. It happens in a couple hundred milliseconds. It's really quick, but it is

2 (14m 42s):
delayed. It's not just site that's delayed though. You are sensing the world on a delay in every respect Adam hatman is a researcher who thinks big thoughts about sensory perception. There's no sensory system. That's not on a delay proprioceptors on the shortest delay and actually Visions on one of the longest delays maybe 200 milliseconds which doesn't sound like a lot but if you're trying to control your Limb and you know hit a baseball you're in trouble if you're going to try to rely on actually seeing the ball. Come to your bad. So our brain needs a shortcut the nervous system invented a new mechanism by which it could

1 (15m 22s):
get a little

2 (15m 23s):
extra speed in order for it to try to move better. So it doesn't get eaten by the Cheetah as many times. Your brain essentially invented a prediction machine your local just a learning machine, you're trying to learn the relationships

1 (15m 40s):
of the world to future events in the world. You're trying to learn the

2 (15m 43s):
relationships of command to actions in your body sort of like, you know, the output of a neural network. You've

1 (15m 51s):
built this understanding over time by learning the relationships between those things and the

2 (15m 55s):
fastest thing you can do is work on those relationships not work on the actual events when throws you a ball your brain has this prediction machine that's based on every time you've tried to catch a ball before and the fastest way to catch it is your prediction machine not your eyes, but even then your prediction machine is still a little late you believe that you are interacting with the world and the present tense and that's just not really true in reality because of the limitations of our nervous system most of the time you're dealing with guesses about the world not actually the world The fact is we're often just guessing which makes it reasonable to start doubting.

2 (16m 37s):
Our perception

3 (16m 38s):
perception really starts with just light light comes into our eyes. But unless we have some sort of framework to scaffold the stimulations on to we aren't going to make sense of it and so in a very real sense, our cognitions are inherently tied into our perceptual experiences

2 (16m 56s):
Emily about Jettas psychology, and why you

3 (16m 59s):
we are creating informed Patience of what the world is going to look like and we're updating those as as maybe we've thought we understood how far down that step is and we got it a little bit wrong. So now the next time we step down that flight of stairs we get it right for the most part we're going around this world getting it right and if it's wrong it's just slightly so and we update and we maybe don't make that mistake again

2 (17m 22s):
on a small scale the worst problem created by your prediction machine might be a missed step, but the

3 (17m 28s):
problem gets bigger. I mean, they've been a number of high-profile cases. A police officer engages in an act of force against a

2 (17m 36s):
civilian and there's often a debate what really

3 (17m 40s):
happened people's reactions have been I wish that we just had a video. I wish we could just see for our very own eyes what happened so we don't have to rely on testimony and now protesters are demanding footage of the shooting be released and the police department has that video why don't they release it? The bottom line is they want to see that officers body cam video, but that video evidence that we have. All Cried Out for actually hasn't brought Society together the jury acquitted former officer Michael Ross field for the 2018 shooting of the 17 year-old. Unarmed black teen the shooting was caught on video and shows Rose and his friend running from police. The police officer says him and used his car as a weapon and that he shot in self-defense.

3 (18m 25s):
But Hammonds family disagrees just don't understand how anybody could watch that video and then say not

2 (18m 31s):
guilty. Emily's research is showing that videos are an opportunity for our prediction machine to take Center Stage just as important as what we watch is how we watch and so in an ongoing study Emily uses videos of altercations between cops and

3 (18m 49s):
citizens and we are asking them what happened in the video and then we asked them to make punishment decisions as they might if they were a juror in a court of law

2 (18m 57s):
as you might expect the people who say they have a lot in common with the cops that he's Justified and vice. Versa what's different about this study though is that Emily is tracking their

3 (19m 6s):
focus. Their eyes are pointed at the very same thing. They're tracking the same person's movements and yet that's where we see the most polarized decisions

2 (19m 14s):
and the weird thing is if their eyes aren't focused on the cop their bias, either Pro or anti cop doesn't come

3 (19m 21s):
out if their eyes of instead followed the civilian or tracked the background or the other objects that are in the scene. There isn't sort of room for their bias to be expressed and for them to maintain the Reef that they've made an accurate

2 (19m 34s):
decision as part of this research Emily is nudging people's prediction machines in a different direction trying to help them see that step on a staircase as just a bit shorter than they might have thought and she's found that that nudge can be as small as telling people to pay equal attention to the cop and civilian

3 (19m 50s):
when before we had seen a pre-existing attitude predicting a biased punishment decision that totally goes away and were among the first people to demonstrate that this is part of the problem. Problem

2 (20m 3s):
and the solution may not be quote objective video

3 (20m 6s):
evidence. That isn't going to be the thing that makes us understand truth with a hundred percent certainty because at the end of the day, it's still people that are watching

2 (20m 17s):
you can't take bias out of the brain. It's built on bias what Emily's suggesting is that the best we can do is nudge people into a different perspective.

1 (20m 26s):
There's this idea called naive realism and is the simple idea that We experience the world. It just feels so true. So, you know the big viral Illusions over the last few years like the dress blue and black or white and gold. That's the naive realism that whatever you experience just feel so real and it is real but it's an approximation. It's a guess and I think what this research should nudges towards his curiosity. I think of the least the very least the the science of perception. It gives us an extremely interesting challenge for living.

1 (21m 6s):
Brian says that on the one

2 (21m 8s):
hand we know our bodies can do incredible things like direct our limbs in the dark using this sense. Most people don't even know they have but we also know that this impressive Machinery is flawed.

1 (21m 20s):
We know now that our experience of the world isn't perfect it can prove it. So, what do you personally do with that? For me that leaves me to feeling the value of more intellectually humble outlook on things, you know sup to you to do with it as you do. It's the challenge.

2 (21m 56s):
Okay. Wait. No. I'm it's a challenge. Yeah, I think Brian is getting at something really hard here, which is that it's a lot harder than you think to not trust yourself all the time. And so in order to deal with the imperfections of our very human senses, we should challenge ourselves to be more humble. Yeah, and I think this doesn't just apply to you know, when we're watching a video of an encounter with police. I mean this applies to how we think about our relationship. Shapes how we deal with conflict how we deal with really strong beliefs and you know, I think if we know that it's so easy for us to be fooled all the time.

2 (22m 37s):
Then I think the best way to go about the world as hard as it is is just to be a little less sure of yourself. Well, if you want people to take this challenge, seriously, I'm pretty sure you need a hashtag. I have no idea the the wizard challenge The Humble challenge 2020. Yeah, pour a bucket of humility on your head. See how it Good that does that will do the trick. No, I'm hassenfeld producer/reporter today. Explain. Thanks so much for your reporting on the story. Thanks, John. Today explained as part of the VOX media podcast Network. You can get in touch with us. Our email address is today explained vox.com.

2 (23m 18s):
We're on Twitter at today underscore explained the rest of the team includes Bridget McCarthy Halima Shaman al-saadi Jillian Weinberger and a film Shapiro. The mysterious brake master cylinder makes music for us and silly lay checks are facts and we had extra help this week from Bird Pinkerton for more on perception Emily ball chedis actually has a book coming out next week. It's called clearer closer better and it's all about how to leverage your own perception. I've been on the road this week. Thanks to little June sale for letting me turn her Berkeley bedroom into a recording studio for an hour or two. Thanks to the Stanford journalism program for letting me use their podcast seller. Thanks to Vicki Pike for letting me use her pool and thanks to match its for letting me hang in my old closet.

2 (24m 3s):
I sense that. You're the best

3 (24m 4s):
mom.