2 (1s):
Does anyone actually know why MailChimp is called MailChimp? I have no idea. I mean, it's a pretty random sounding name for a company that offers an all-in-one marketing platform that will help you jump start your business with easy to use tools. Like the number one email marketing solution website builder and social post scheduler find out more at mailchimp.com. If you have an idea, let me know. I'm at you know Shawn at vox.com a traumas firm on the Twitter's. Why is it called MailChimp?

1 (30s):
We're in a battle for the soul of America. We're ready to build this majority

2 (37s):
after so much impeachment inquiry over the past few weeks. I gotta admit. I actually felt relieved to see

1 (43s):
all the Democrats roll out

2 (45s):
on stage last night in Atlanta for their fifth debate. I didn't even really mind the totally ridiculous Avengers style intro on MSNBC and then Through that intro they went straight into impeachment.

1 (1m 3s):
We're in the middle of the fourth presidential impeachment proceedings in our nation's history.

3 (1m 9s):
So we didn't really learn anything new on impeachment.

2 (1m 12s):
Elena nilsen is covering the 2020 race for Vox

3 (1m 16s):
Senator Warren and Senator Klobuchar were asked on the top about it. Warren has been very clear that she has supported impeachment from the beginning Sanders was asked about it and he sort of said yes Trump is A terrible president but also and then pivoted to his message of we need to address these, you know more systemic inequalities. So I think that it was kind of a good platform for everybody to just say what they've been saying for a long

2 (1m 41s):
time. I don't know if I'm projecting because he's been getting a lot more attention lately, but it felt like Pete Buddha judge was very very prepared for this question and came out like swinging with his answer more so than any of the other candidates

1 (1m 54s):
we are absolutely going to confront this president for his wrongdoing, but we are also eat Running to be the president who will lead this country after the Trump presidency comes to an end one way or the other

3 (2m 6s):
Buddha judge kind of benefits from not being a creature of Washington here. I mean, he's the mayor of South Bend Indiana, which is a relatively small City. This is kind of his pitch for his presidency is that he is not of Washington. He is from America's Heartland. He you know understands the challenges of Regular

1 (2m 24s):
People Washington experience is not the only experience the Otters is more than a hundred years of Washington experience on this stage. And where are we right now is a country and I think that you know, while everybody else is embroiled

3 (2m 38s):
in this this impeachment debate. He was sort of able to touch on it and then kind of want straight into his own pitch about his

1 (2m 47s):
candidacy the experience of knowing what is its take as the decisions made in those big white buildings come into our lives our homes our families our workplaces and our marriages and I Submit that this is the kind of experience. We need not just to go to Washington but to change it before it is too late

3 (3m 6s):
and I sort of think that the impeachment as a backdrop to all of this might be good for Buddha judge more than anyone else especially given that the Senators that are running for president may actually have to come off the The Campaign Trail to deal with an impeachment trial so Buddha judge benefits no matter what on that. Oh, well, I feel like we didn't actually have that many.

2 (3m 29s):
What conversations on policy last night but we did have some Revelations about the candidates through sometimes superficial conversations about policy. So I wanted to focus on three of those income inequality the environment and race. Let's start with income inequality. And this conversation was sort of about income inequality in the country, but also about the candidates on stage.

3 (3m 51s):
Yes, Tom steyer and his plaid tie got attacked for being a billionaire last night and actually then then Andrew Yang left to his And you know, it's like oh Tom Stars a good billionaire. He cares about the environment. It was kind of an interesting illustrative moment because we've had plenty of candidates railing against Millionaires and billionaires but last night it was kind of an interesting dynamic because Amy Klobuchar the senator from Minnesota talked about kind of her humble beginnings and so brought some more of a her personal experience

1 (4m 22s):
to it. I am someone that doesn't come from money. I see my husband out there. My first Senate race, I literally called everyone I knew and I I said what is still an all-time Center record? I raised $17,000 from ex-boyfriends and I like to think

3 (4m 39s):
because the field is so large and like there is still no clear front-runner. We've lately had Tom steyer entering the race. He is a billionaire who has run organizations like next-gen and need to impeach former New York city mayor and billionaire Michael Bloomberg is talking about getting in and Course like these guys as Klobuchar kind of was nodding to sort of have a little bit of an unfair advantage and that they can just sell fun. They don't need to go out and fundraise and worry about you know, hitting their their quarterly fundraising numbers because they just have so much money.

2 (5m 15s):
So Yang defended steyer as a billionaire who's dedicated a lot of his wealth and means to you know, fighting climate change, but then Biden went after him pretty hard on climate

3 (5m 24s):
change. So yeah, so on Wednesday night climate finally sort of got It's big moment. And one of the things that I noticed was the the questions on climate like went to Tulsi gabbard and Tom steyer. None of the like leading four candidates. Got a question on climate, which I don't know seemed a little off to me. But anyways, so Tom steyer gets a question on climate. He immediately said

1 (5m 48s):
I'm the only person on this stage who will say that climate is the number one priority for

3 (5m 52s):
me, but he kind of immediate we got a job from Joe Biden who? Pointed out that steyer used to invest in coal

1 (6m 3s):
mining while I was passing the first climate change Bill and that sort of fact said was a game changer while I manage the 90 billion dollar recovery plan investing more money in infrastructure that related to clean energy and any time we've ever done it my friend was producing more coal mines and produce. Oost more coal around the world according to the Press then all of Great Britain

3 (6m 34s):
produces and stereo tried to defend it and you know said that 10 years ago, he came to the conclusion that climate is a huge problem and has since spent a lot on environmental

2 (6m 44s):
causes. It was like a rare moment of tension, which I didn't feel like we got as much as last night with people like de Blasio and Delaney and Hickenlooper out of the mix another one came up, of course on Race. What was that conversation?

3 (6m 59s):
In like there was a sort of a two-pronged discussion on race one came when mayor Pete Buddha judge was asked about kind of a significant hiccup in their Outreach to Black voters and that's their plan that addresses racial inequality in America used a stock photo of a woman from Kenya as the main image and Kamala Harris as the only black woman running for president was asked about that

1 (7m 26s):
for too long. I think candidates have Taken for granted constituencies that have been the backbone of the democratic party and I've overlooked those constituencies and have you know, they show up when it's you know close to election time show up in a black church and and want to get the vote but just haven't been there before. I mean, you know, the there are plenty of people who applauded black women for the success of the 2018 election applauded black women for the election of a They're from Alabama. But you know at some point folks get tired of just saying oh, you know, thank me for showing up and want to end and say will show up for me

3 (8m 10s):
and it's kind of worth noting that even though she had a powerful argument last night. She's been struggling in the polls including in South Carolina where Joe Biden is clearly the candidate that is far and away like running away with the black vote right now. So he has a huge Coalition of support and that's you know part. Early because he was Obama's vice president. He has ties and South Carolina. He's just like a known entity in the state and meanwhile, the two candidates that were on the debate stage last night. They're actually now three black candidates running with Deval Patrick in the mix, but Cory Booker and Kamala Harris have not been doing as well with black voters. So last night. It was really notable that Booker like went after Biden especially on racial issues and on drug policy around

1 (8m 56s):
marijuana. I have a lot of Backed up for the vice president. He is for me into my office is a hero this week. I hear him literally say that I don't think we should legalize marijuana. I thought you might've been high when you said it marijuana marijuana in our country is already legal for privileged people and it's one of the War on Drugs has been a Biden did

2 (9m 28s):
take a moment to clear up his views and say that he does believe in decriminalizing marijuana, but then if this was a moment to sort of look good on Race he kind of shit the bed because he said

1 (9m 40s):
listen I come out of the black community in terms of my support. If you notice I have more people supporting me in the black community that have nouns for me because they know me they know who I am three former chairs the black caucus the only black African American woman that ever been elected to the United States Senate the whole range. People my point is the other one is forgetting about Kamala

2 (10m 6s):
Harris has existence when she was on the stage right there with him did not look

3 (10m 11s):
good. Buddha judge also had to answer a couple of tough questions on Race, which I think is sort of his biggest challenge right now. I mean, this is something that he knows is an issue as campaign knows is an issue and there have been issues in South Bend with with race relations between the police. Us and members of the city with housing with Buddha judge firing the city's first black police chief after he took over and so he talked about the consequences of racial inequity in his own City. I think he sort of admitted that like as a white man. He can't really relate personally to that struggle of black Americans, but he also sort of tried to Pivot and talk about the fact that he is a gay man and that he understands how it feels to be Marginalized member of society.

1 (11m 0s):
Well, I do not have the experience of ever having been discriminated against because of the color of my skin. I do have the experience of sometimes feeling like a stranger in my own Country turning on the news and seeing my own rights come up for debate and seeing my rights expanded by a coalition of people like me and people not at all like me working side-by-side shoulder-to-shoulder making it possible for me to be standing here wearing this. Wedding ring in a way that couldn't have happened to elections ago lets me know just how deep my obligation is to help those whose rights are on the line every day, even if they are nothing like me in their

3 (11m 40s):
experience. I think it remains to be seen if that is going to be sort of an effective pitch to African-American voters. But last night we sort of saw him trying to attempt to make an effort to bridge that Gap.

2 (11m 57s):
Did it feel to you like it? Found a new gear last night. I mean he got more attention from the moderators and even from other candidates and thus he kind of had to defend himself a little more. He was almost a little Surly at times I would say

3 (12m 11s):
it was an interesting juxtaposition to what we saw in the October debate when Buddha judge was the one that was doing a lot of the attacking right like he was going after Warren on Medicare for all he and Klobuchar kind of tag team that won a little bit but you know, the Buddha judge campaign is kind of entering sort of this new phase a new New profile but that comes along with with distinct challenges both on the debate stage and off the debate

2 (12m 35s):
stage in a minute the rise of Mayor Pete how it happened whether it means anything there's it today explained. A lot of people out there have great ideas. Right? But what if you don't know how to get that idea to people like there was this whole incident recently where this dude was like walking down the street in Jamaica Queens and he found an in-and-out Burger on the sidewalk in Jamaica Queens the thing that's interesting about that is that the closest In and Out Burger to Jamaica Queens is like in Texas, there are no In-N-Out Burgers in New York City and yet this guy was I can buy on the sidewalk looked down and saw this perfectly pristine in-and-out burger.

2 (13m 36s):
Just sitting there on the sidewalk in a rapper and he was like, how did this happen? Anyway, he commemorated this moment of finding an in-and-out Burger on the sidewalk in Jamaica Queens with these great t-shirts that said Jamaica Queens with the in and out logo on them. All the proceeds went to charity but like this guy had a great idea. I wonder who built his

3 (13m 56s):
website. It must have been a lot of

2 (13m 58s):
work to Market these t-shirts, too. Build a website to sell these t-shirts to distribute all these t-shirts out. I bet I bet the guy who did it all could have used an all-in-one marketing platform for help and MailChimp offers one of those. So if you're like making a funny t-shirt based on an incredible story that happened one time and you're ready to Be Your Own Boss while you're doing it and you're kind of asking yourself. How do I do this start with MailChimp? They got an all-in-one marketing platform and you can find it at mailchimp.com.

3 (14m 37s):
People to judge is now the leader in Iowa, which gets the 2020 voting underway in just 11 weeks a lot of the

2 (14m 43s):
other main candidates in this race. They were sort of very well known before the primary started Bernie Sanders Elizabeth Warren, Joe Biden those were sort of big heavyweight celebrities. Pete has really sort of had to bootstrap a campaign like literally nobody knew who he was when he started it seemed like a so candidacy

1 (15m 11s):
and what do you think it means but gang but gang yeah, what's that gang of but

2 (15m 18s):
but he was incredibly available to the media. He went on all kinds of podcasts everywhere. You went on the weeds. He is the mayor of South Bend, Indiana. He is a candidate for president. In 2020 and in

1 (15m 31s):
lieu of further introductions, but just please bring out mayor Pete Budaj and

2 (15m 36s):
then he became quite popular with donors. He raised a ton of money and now he is running TV ads strategically in the early States and the ads seem to be working as a veteran and as a mayor I've

1 (15m 48s):
seen what we can achieve when we have each other's backs,

2 (15m 50s):
you know, he stole but behind obviously but it's been a real kind of success story out of a very big field. So what's mayor Pete's appeal? Well, I think something that Pete appeals to is people who like the idea of a more moderate Democrat somebody who will not frighten the voters with radical positions, but who is still something of an outsider something of a fresh face right that you know, there's a sense that you need somebody who is not part of this system and not part of the establishment, but also isn't a frightening radical at the same time you here incredible hostility to him from like members of Congress, right Democratic party elected officials really see him as a guy who's like jumping in line. Hence, their sensibilities as professional politicians to see somebody that young with that thin or resume something on top of the polls for Iowa caucuses is his resume that then I mean, he's a veteran he is a elected official.

2 (16m 42s):
He speaks like more languages than your average American. Is he unqualified? It's an impressive resume, right? I mean if you were talking about a candidate for Statewide run, right if you were talking about Governor or Senator you'd say this is great. This is a young guy with a great resume for somebody in his mid-30s, right? I've got more experience in government than the president of the United States. I've got more years of executive experience than the vice president and I have more military experience than anybody who's arrived behind that desk since

1 (17m 12s):
George HW

2 (17m 12s):
Bush I get that. It's not a conventional background, but I don't think this is a time for conventional backgrounds in Washington right now. But as a resume for a president, it's very unusual. I mean South Bend Indiana is a small city right is the fourth largest city in Indiana and the idea of making the From there to the presidency with nothing in between is very unusual. Trump has obviously changed the rules of the game. But do people have made careers in politics, right? Amy Klobuchar was district attorney and now she's been a senator for a long time and now she's running for president and there's this guy who has, you know, been mayor of a city of a hundred thousand people and now he's like I'm going to be president and it rubs a lot of people the wrong way.

2 (17m 53s):
What is he actually running on? You know, he early on made a big deal out of political reform. He talked a lot about the Ernst of changing the filibuster of looking at changing how the judicial system works and of really emphasizing the need to democratize the political process. Well, first of all, we've got to repair our democracy the Electoral College needs to go because it's made our society less and less Democratic than on policy substance, you know, he's offering what would have been considered a very Progressive agenda 10 years ago, but looks moderate today and that's a big sort of public option plan. He calls it Medicare for all who want it some increased funding for college and Educational subsidies, he's got a short of what he calls A Douglas plan for Black America.

2 (18m 34s):
It's addresses redlining a lot of issues like that. It's not shocking stuff Friday. He's very much from the center of the democratic party today. What was distinctive about him in his early presentation was really that emphasis on political reform, which he has emphasized a little bit less more recently and instead has drawn the contrast on Healthcare with Sanders and Warren just for the fun of it. How do you think someone like me? Mayor, Pete might match up against someone like President Trump in the general election. I think in some ways he cuts it appealing contrast with Trump, right? He's young. He actually served in the military. He's like a physically vigorous Sky against this oldster. He's very good very quick on his feet, you know good at answering extemporaneous questions.

2 (19m 18s):
He seems knowledgeable and way that Trump isn't at the same time, you know, if you're thinking about Trump's he electoral wins with white working-class voters in the northern Midwest. Boo, did you know he will emphasize his Midwestern ties? And the fact that South Bend is a post-industrial city, but really he's the mayor of a college town, right and his whole biography is in sort of elite professional circles, right Harvard McKinsey. He goes back to his hometown, but you know, he didn't grow up there because his dad was a retired Auto worker. His dad was a college professor and you know, you've got to wonder right does Pete have the connection with the right kind of Voters to come and win. He's very weak in the primary with Africa.

2 (19m 59s):
Americans and he doesn't seem to have the Persona to sort of get those white working-class Obama to Trump switchers. At least that would be my concern about him more than you know, Kenny go toe-to-toe verbally with Donald Trump. I think absolutely that being said he is doing well in Iowa with a lot of middle-class voters in the early states where he's advertised. He's doing very very well in National polls, you know, he does well with sort of white college graduates, right? That's sort of his Corps. Support so you know that works in an Iowa caucus it works potentially New Hampshire primary and the question for him is going to be can he broaden that base of support right? If he wins in Iowa, he will get a surge of positive coverage.

2 (20m 42s):
That should give him a boost elsewhere. But how big of a boost and in particular can he make any kind of Headway with African-American voters because you see poles like of South Carolina where he's getting zero percent of the black vote and that's not a winning strategy in a Democratic primary. That being said, he's come a long way he's doing well in Iowa, which is like what two and a half months away at this point. Is there a chance that you know a surgeon Iowa could mean that mayor Pete's going to be a lot more prominent player in this race. You never want to Discount the guy who's leading in the early states that that's a big deal. It means something it means other candidates will go after him, you know the same time to keep it in perspective. Right? What you really have here is a fascinating story this guy.

2 (21m 24s):
Nobody had heard of this small city mayor getting into the conversation is much more. And then the former vice-president kind of hanging out at 30% for months, but still eight percent is not 30% Joe Biden is the guy who's in first place. He's been in first place Warren and Sanders are nipping at his heels Pete is way behind right the odds of him winning still seem pretty low to me but it is the most interesting political story right now is how is this guy gone from nowhere to somewhere but then the question is can he go from somewhere to actually winning? That's all very uphill battle.

2 (22m 7s):
Matthew yglesias writes about politics here at box. I'm Shawn promise from this is today explained. A notes all the side Hustlers out there. You can make your side hustle your main hustle with your main chimp MailChimp. I'll let you know where that name came from as soon as I find out MailChimp offers an all-in-one marketing platform that has everything you need all in one place to give your new business the strongest start with just the right marketing and you can find it at just one website mailchimp.com.