2 (0s):
Let me just recap this whole whistleblower thing real quick. At least since the Public's been aware of it. It was just shy of two weeks ago that we learned that a whistleblower had made a complaint against the president of the United States. That was it. No details Democrats wanted the complaint the administration wouldn't provide it nevertheless towards the end of last week. The details started to spill out. The complaint is about a phone call. It involves Ukraine at the end of last week more details allegations that President Trump asked President Vladimir zalenski of Ukraine to investigate Joe Biden and there may have been hundreds of millions of dollars in military aid on the line.

2 (47s):
Democrats continue to demand the complaint itself, but the administration holds instead yesterday. They release a rough transcript of the phone call finally towards the end of the day yesterday. The administration gives The Whistleblower complaint to the house intelligence committee and this morning the unclassified version is released to the public Andrew Prokop has been sitting in the today explains Studio at vaux since Monday covering this with us. So

1 (1m 17s):
the first big takeaway is that in addition to describing what happened on the now Infamous July 25th phone call between Trump and Ukrainian president zalenski The Whistleblower also describes an alleged White House effort to cover up or hide documents related to what happened on that call the second big takeaway is that the Whistleblower really makes clear that this Not just about what happened on one phone call he or she Chronicles a series of events that took place over months involving Trump that tell a story of a concerted continuous pressure campaign on the Ukrainian government to start these investigations that would help Trump politically.

2 (2m 8s):
Okay, let's start with number one. How did the White House try to cover up the phone

1 (2m 12s):
call? So The Whistleblower rights in the days following the phone call? I learned from multiple us officials that senior White House officials had intervened to lock down all records of the phone call. Especially the official word-for-word

2 (2m 26s):
transcript. Is that the transcript you and I talked about yesterday ours is a different transcript.

1 (2m 31s):
It's not entirely clear. There are two possibilities one is that the Whistleblower was a bit inexact in referring to a word-for-word transcript the document that was released yesterday was not a Verbatim transcript, but it was written like one. Okay. The other possibility is that there is still an exact word-for-word transcript that is hidden away somewhere which would obviously be very interesting indeed.

2 (2m 56s):
So how exactly did the White House try to quote unquote lockdown this transcript whichever one it may have

1 (3m 1s):
been. So according to the Whistleblower White House officials said they were directed by White House lawyers to Move the electronic transcript from the computer system in which such transcripts are typically stored. Okay, so they moved it to a separate electronic and record-keeping system that's used for much more secretive information information of an especially sensitive nature The Whistleblower rights one White House official / The Whistleblower describe this act as an abuse of this electronic system because the called did not contain anything remotely sensitive from a national security perspective. So basically they're trying to say that the White House was trying to use secretive procedures designed to Shield National Security information to keep politically damaging stuff about Trump from being distributed to widely within the government and the Whistleblower mentions that he or she has heard that this is not the first time that this has

2 (4m 2s):
happened. So the whistleblowers thing that the White House tried to hide any record of this call and has potential Done this other

1 (4m 9s):
times and the subtext is that they knew it would look really bad The Whistleblower also says that White House officials were talking soon afterward about how Trump appeared to have done something very inappropriate here. This is used they say for Stuff such as covert action programs, like very secretive stuff that the United States is doing a broad not just Trump says something to a foreign leader that he does not want to get out publicly. And so this effort to kind of use dubious National Security pretexts to hide away this document and make sure that not too many people in the US government could get to see it starts to look pretty shady starts to look like part of a cover-up.

2 (4m 56s):
What about this second bucket of all these other events that happened around the phone call this sort of pressure campaign that the Trump Administration placed on Ukraine.

1 (5m 4s):
So the complaint spends several Pages laying out A broader context for that now Infamous, July 25th Trump phone call with zalenski. It tells a pretty damning story based partly on public events and partly on what The Whistleblower has been hearing privately from us officials that since early this year Giuliani has been saying publicly and also meeting Ukrainian officials behind the scenes to make clear that he really wants these investigations into the Biden's and into the origins of the FBI's Russian interference

2 (5m 42s):
investigation.

1 (5m 47s):
For instance The Whistleblower mentions that multiple us officials told me that the Ukrainian leadership was led to believe that a meeting or phone call between the president and president solinsky would depend on whether zielinski showed willingness to play ball on those investigative issues. Also, multiple us officials quote were deeply concerned. By what they viewed as mr. Giuliani circumvention of National Security decision making process to engage with Ukrainian officials and relay messages back and forth between Kiev and the

2 (6m 18s):
president.

1 (6m 21s):
And then there's another claim that Trump instructed vice president. Mike Pence to cancel his planned trip to Ukraine to attend zelinsky's inauguration. They sent Energy Secretary Rick Perry instead, which was a bit of a trade down. So this all appears to be an effort to send a message to zalenski that he's got to do what Trump wanted which is what Rudy wanted which is to pursue these investigations.

2 (6m 58s):
The complaint here says that Trump pressured solinsky and yesterday in their joint, press conference at the UN. They both said there was no pressure. What are we to believe

1 (7m 8s):
here? I think it's pretty clear that The Whistleblower knows pretty well what he or she is talking about. And the reason for that is that in the complaint. There's an extensive description of what the Whistleblower has heard about Trump's phone call with zielinski on July 25th. That's the phone call that the White House just released their own internal documents summarizing what happened in the semi transcript that we talked about yesterday and it very closely matches. What The Whistleblower has laid out the Whistleblower makes clear that he or she wasn't in the room for the call.

1 (7m 51s):
They don't appear to have seen the exact. To the call, but there is a very specific description of what happened on the call. All of the key aspects of it. Essentially that Trump pressure zalenski to investigate the Biden's that Trump pressured zalenski to investigate the origins of the FBI's Russian interference investigation and that Trump repeatedly told zalenski to meet or speak with both his personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani and attorney general Bill bar. None of this is even disputed at this point. It's all confirmed in the document that the White House itself released. So that really does seem to bolster the whistleblowers credibility.

1 (8m 32s):
They may not have been in the room, but they were talking to people who know what they are talking

2 (8m 38s):
about. We established yesterday that this transcript that was released by The White House did not look good. How much worse is it made by the fact that it's so closely corroborated by this whistleblowers

1 (8m 50s):
complaint The Whistleblower complaint confirms a lot of the stuff that already did not look good. And then it adds new stuff that does not look good namely the White House effort to cover up the records of Trumps call with zelanski and the various other potential events that were connected to this that The Whistleblower lays

2 (9m 14s):
out. Do we think the Whistleblower will stay Anonymous or will he or she eventually end up testifying before Congress like like the dni did

1 (9m 23s):
today according to the whistleblowers lawyers who are making public statements about the case. The person does want to remain anonymous but they also are willing to testify so if testimony happens obviously they will try to make sure that the person's identity is protected whether technology Logically, or whether just trusting members of congress not to leak it I guess and if it does get leaked that would probably be pretty unpleasant for The Whistleblower because they would then end up being a named Target of President Trump criticized by Fox News. And we should note that the acting Director of National Intelligence.

1 (10m 5s):
Joseph McGwire has said that he is going to do whatever he can to try and protect the Whistleblower from retaliation and their identity from being

2 (10m 16s):
disclosed. How is President Trump reacted to all this news? That's broken.

1 (10m 20s):
So Trump spoke to a crowd of staff from the US mission to the United Nations and from audio obtained by the LA times. We know he said to them

3 (10m 31s):
verse of the game whistleblowers was the first of the game the whistle blow of the information because that's supposed to ask You know what we used to do in the old days when we were smart the spies and Teresa's we stand a little differently but we do have

2 (10m 51s):
what is he trying to say there Andrew? I think he's alluding to

1 (10m 55s):
the fact that in the old days spies and people who committed treason were

2 (11m 1s):
executed. After the break Andrea, I will go through the testimony of acting Director of National Intelligence Joseph McGuire. This is Ukraine explained. You know the District of Columbia gets a bad rap some people call it a swamp. I mean it is kind of a swamp some people say everyone's just wearing khakis.

2 (11m 42s):
I mean everyone is kind of wearing khakis. Some people say you don't even have real Federal representatives there. I mean, you don't have real Federal Representatives here, but you know, what we do have in the District of Columbia is the Smithsonian museums and now there's a podcast called Lost at the Smithsonian host by the daily Show's Aasif mandvi and in it Asif digs into the little-known stories behind all the iconic artifacts in the national museum of American History right here on the National Mall from Fonzie's leather jacket to Dorothy's ruby slippers Asif and curators from the national museum of American history and some special celebrity guests Trace how these special objects have come to Define our culture.

2 (12m 23s):
The show again is called Lost at the Smithsonian and it comes out today. Check it out wherever you check out your podcasts. Andrew just minutes after the Whistle blowers complaint was released acting Director of National Intelligence Joseph McGuire began his testimony before the house intelligence committee. What do we know about him going into today?

3 (12m 48s):
I'm not partisan and I am not

1 (12m 50s):
political. So McGwire is a pretty nonpartisan figure. He had a lengthy military career in the Navy.

3 (12m 60s):
I served under eight presidents while I was in uniform. I have taken the oath to the Constitution 11 times the first time when I was sworn into the United States Navy in 1974 and 9 times during my subsequent promotions in the United States

1 (13m 16s):
Navy and he returned to government to be the director of the national counterterrorism Center in 2018. Because Trump pushed out the people who were the number one and number two in the office of the Director of National Intelligence. He is now the acting director Of National

2 (13m 37s):
Intelligence and how long again has he been on the job six weeks six weeks. So why was he there today in front of

1 (13m 44s):
Congress? So The Whistleblower filed this complaint with the Inspector General for the intelligence

2 (13m 53s):
community and his name Michael Atkinson and he's a trump

1 (13m 56s):
appointee. Yes Atkinson is a trump appointee. He reviewed the complaint and concluded that this complaint was a matter of urgent concern and that it was credible. So he told McGuire the acting Director of National Intelligence about this finding and then McGuire according to the law was supposed to transmit this whistleblower complaint to the Congressional intelligence committees, but he didn't do that. And what ended up happening is that the inspector General went to the intelligence committees himself and told them.

1 (14m 36s):
About what was going on? So they wanted to hear from McGuire today and they wanted to hear why didn't you give this whistleblower complaint over to us? When we think by law you should have been obligated to do this weeks ago

3 (14m 52s):
the Inspector General found that serious allegation of misconduct by the president credible. Did you also find that credible? I did not criticize the expected General's decision on whether it not was credible. My question was whether it not whether or not it meets the Urgent concern and the seven-day time frame that would follow but so is notify my question to you after I have no no question in his judgment that he considers it a serious matter.

2 (15m 24s):
Okay. So that's the central question here. Why didn't the acting Director of National Intelligence Joseph McGuire immediately submit this whistleblower complaint to Congress. What was his

1 (15m 32s):
answer? So he said that because this complaint involved conduct by the president of the United

3 (15m 40s):
States this was different and to me it just seemed prudent to be able to check and ensure as a member of the executive branch before I sent it

1 (15m 49s):
forward and it brought up some complicated legal issues that he wanted to make sure he was in the right on so one of those was the question of executive privilege and he says that he talked to the White House counsel about

3 (16m 8s):
this. It did appear that it has executive privilege. If it does have executive privilege is the White House that determines

1 (16m 16s):
that then McGuire said there was a second issue that he wanted to be sure whether this whistleblower complaint actually was a matter of urgent concern and his team consulted with the Justice Department's office of legal counsel about that and that Fares or well see reviewed the matter and they decided that in their view. It wasn't a matter of urgent concern that falls under this law and the way the executive branch Works. Once the olc makes a finding like that. The Director of National Intelligence would be bound by their finding

2 (16m 54s):
any got how much pushback on that approximately

1 (16m 57s):
a lot from

3 (16m 58s):
Democrats you first went the office of legal counsel, and then you went to White House counsel. We went to the beach and then to the repeat that please sir. I'm just trying to send the chronology you first went to the office of legal counsel, and then you went to the White House counsel. No, no, sir. No, sir. No, we went to the who went to the White House first to determine to ask the okay. That's all I want to know is chronology went to the White House first, so You went to the subject of the complaint. For advice first about whether you should provide the complaint to

1 (17m 33s):
Congress McGuire kept describing the situation that he was in as

3 (17m 40s):
I believe that everything here in this matter is totally

1 (17m 43s):
unprecedented because you know, this is a complaint about the conduct of the president of the United States and it's not about some ordinary government officials wrongdoing and that brings up a whole host of assorted legal

2 (17m 58s):
issues as per usual watching this testimony felt like some sort of whiplash because Democrats were trying to probe into the process by which he did or did not submit this to Congress and Republicans were just mostly attacking the hearing itself. What was their strategy?

1 (18m 18s):
This was a bit of an awkward hearing for Republicans because McGuire is not really a rock-solid trump guy who will go out of his way to politically defend the president but he's not looking too politically attack the president either and so Devon newness the ranking member on the house intelligence committee and other Republicans kind of struggled with how to handle that newness at one point almost warned McGuire that you should be careful about what you say

2 (18m 52s):
because they're going to try to get you to say something that can be repeated by the media that is

3 (18m 57s):
here that wants to report the story.

1 (18m 59s):
They meaning the Democrats will try to use it against you and the media and the media, of course.

2 (19m 7s):
I mean here we are. I'm scrupulously nonpartisan here

1 (19m 13s):
say but overall it was not really a comfortable place for the GOP to be in a few of them admitted that the allegations were in fact serious others, of course tried to completely dismiss them and and say it was all a big

2 (19m 31s):
nothing despite that there was something very interesting about seeing this intelligence officer with a storied career in the military who represents the Trump Administration but isn't necessarily a political figure up there testifying before a number of political figures did anything interesting present itself in that unique situation.

1 (19m 52s):
There was this one moment that was perhaps a bit off script for a trump Administration appointee where McGwire talked about the most important threats facing the United States at this. That he has to deal with in his job.

3 (20m 11s):
I think that the greatest challenge that we face is not necessarily a little from kinetic strike or with Russia or China or Iran or North Korea. I think the greatest challenge that we do have is to make sure that we maintain the Integrity of our election system.

1 (20m 30s):
Which really does seem to get to the heart of The Whistleblower complaint itself and the challenge that the entire political system faces going forward in dealing with this topic of Trump trying to swing The 20/20

3 (20m 47s):
election.