1 (2s):
Support for the show today comes from who we are a Chronicle of racism in America. If over the course of the past five or six months, you've learned a lot about race in America that you never learned in school and want to learn a lot more about it. This is the show for you and new episodes of who we are are every Tuesday you can listen And subscribe wherever you're listening to this right now and presumably you're subscribed to this. And if you're not you should change that.

2 (38s):
Please raise your right

1 (40s):
hand and repeat after me. I Donald John Trump do solemnly swear. I Donald John Trump do solemnly swear that I will Faithfully execute that. I will Faithfully execute the office of President of the United States the office of President of the United States and will to the best of my ability and will to the best of my ability preserve protect and defend And preserve protect and defend the Constitution of the United States the Constitution of the United States. So help me God so help me God congratulations. Mr. President.

1 (1m 20s):
It's snakes planed. I'm Sean Rama's forum for years ago Donald Trump from reality TV won the presidency and our shared reality hasn't been the same since the Relentless pace of headlines controversies and tweets. It's has rendered the country divided at present and unable to fully recollect the past I've seen the Tweet about tapes. Lordy. I hope their tapes we struggled to remember what this president said or did last month let alone in 2017 this October leading up to the 2020 election. We're going to help you remember in the coming weeks were bringing you the Trump Years A series that looks back on what Donald Trump did during his four years as president of the Added States and what it means for the future of the American political experiment.

1 (2m 16s):
on today's show America first we're breaking down President Trump's America First Vision domestically and then internationally and domestically it's really all about immigration Nicole. Marea you cover immigration at vaux. I feel like the story of Donald Trump and immigration begins. Well before he enters the Oval Office,

2 (2m 39s):
so it really dates back to the campaign Trail in 2015 famously delivered a speech defending his golden escalator at Trump Tower announcing that Was running for president

1 (2m 52s):
and we are going to

2 (2m 54s):
make our country great again, two things good on that speech on immigration. He said

1 (3m 0s):
when Mexico sends its people they're not sending their best. They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists and some I assume are good

2 (3m 11s):
people and that would become the first of many derogatory statements would make about Mexicans publicly. And he also said that he would build a wall a great great

1 (3m 20s):
wall. On our Southern border and I will have Mexico pay for that wall mark my words.

2 (3m 27s):
He also talked about immigration at other points during the campaign like in 2016 when he gave his speech in Phoenix Arizona laying out his vision for what the immigration system should look like. He basically said that immigration system is broken. It hurts lower class Americans and increases crime and he also laid out how he would change it with policies that were largely informed by the ideas of Destruction in who have long looked for an opportunity to change the immigration system in a way that maintains a non-hispanic white majority population. But you know, the wall really was the symbol of the Trump campaign and it did set the tone for his presidency.

2 (4m 7s):
Even though there were these other plan

1 (4m 11s):
that will Build That Wall built that wall built that wall Build That Wall it's the wall that sets the tone but it's also the Muslim. Then which is like the first thing he does when he enters office. Yeah. Yeah.

2 (4m 24s):
Definitely. I mean in January 2017 just as he walked in the door. He issued the Muslim ban, as some people called it travel ban by what the proper Administration says and there was immediate chaos an

1 (4m 36s):
airport huge Nationwide protests erupted. Once again on President Donald Trump's second weekend in office to be sure the Muslim ban the travel ban. It's still in effect for years later. Yeah.

2 (4m 49s):
Yeah it is and it's been Added to other countries primarily African countries. Actually Nigeria was one of the countries that was added to the list and that could impact hundreds of thousands of people

1 (5m 6s):
President Trump doesn't seem to talk about the wall as much as he used to what's up with

2 (5m 10s):
that. So I think building the wall was kind of a useful shorthand for his General philosophy on immigration, which is primarily focused on keeping people out. Out but it was actually one of his least successful immigration policies Mexico. Obviously never paid for it Congress wouldn't fund it. He's still way behind on construction and is currently racing to complete two miles of wall per day ahead of the election often cutting through national forests and Wildlife preserves to do it. But even though he didn't quite deliver on that promise, he has really succeeded in fundamentally changing the immigration system in so many other ways

1 (5m 49s):
remind us which ones

2 (5m 51s):
So I divided up into three categories the first being the southern border which has been the focus of his administration for years now, but we've also seen him focus on internal enforcement and deportations and and then cutting back legal immigration.

1 (6m 7s):
All right. Well, let's go through them what's going on at the southern border. What's the

2 (6m 10s):
latest? So one of the first policies that he pursued while in office was called the zero tolerance policy where basically the government decided to Prosecute anyone who crosses the Border without

1 (6m 23s):
authorization, this is what Donald Trump just sent on Twitter moments ago quote. We cannot allow all of these people to invade our country when somebody comes in we must immediately with no judges or court cases bring them back from where they

2 (6m 37s):
came and under previous administrations. Those people would have been released under certain conditions such as if they didn't pose a risk to some Public Safety and from that policy came family separations. Starting in early 2017. Basically, they were tearing parents from their children the children away to facilities halfway across the country and without tracking them in a nationalized system. So to this day families are still trying to be reunited to no avail and the Trump Administration though. They've denied any sort of administration-wide policy of family separations did in fact use Policy to deter immigrants from coming across the border as we know now from reporting.

2 (7m 29s):
Some other big policies that have really defined Trump's philosophy on the southern border is the remain in Mexico policy the Trump administration's immigration crack down on the southern border is expanding. All Asylum Seekers are now required to remain in Mexico to await their day in u.s. Immigration Court. And basically there are now thousands of people waiting in migrant camps on the southern border literally right across the Rio Grande waiting for a chance to be able to argue in front of an immigration judge. They deserve Asylum and more recently under the pandemic. We have also seen the Trump Administration use emergency powers to close the u.s. Mexico border entirely and basically turn away anyone who's coming from a country where there is a risk of communicable disease which at this point unfortunately includes Mexico,

1 (8m 19s):
right which we talk to you about recently on our episode on ice and forced hysterectomies. Let's talk a bit more about ice and what President Trump has accomplished. Internally within the United States.

2 (8m 31s):
Yeah, so there are currently 10 million unauthorized immigrants living in the US and under Trump immigration enforcement has really been empowered to go after those people 680 undocumented immigrants were arrested yesterday in

1 (8m 45s):
Mississippi. Wednesday's raids marked the largest workplace raid in one state ever surpassing a 2008 Mississippi plant operation were 595 immigrants were

2 (8m 56s):
arrested. We've seen Matthew port. Friends though still not more than there were under the Obama Administration. In addition to that Trump has also tried to roll back a really popular program on both sides of the aisle the deferred action for childhood arrivals program or DACA. That's the program that was instituted by President Obama that protects these approximately 700,000 so-called dreamers. These are the young immigrants who came here as children. It protects them from deportation. The Supreme Court actually ruled against his attempt to roll back the dark. Elections earlier this year, but we could still see him try to do that next year. If he's re-elected.

1 (9m 35s):
You mentioned that even with all of this focus on undocumented immigrants living in the United States President Trump still hasn't managed to deport more undocumented immigrants than even President Obama though. It seems like there's way more attention on this issue under President Trump. Then there was under President Obama. The abolish ice slogan comes to mind. How is it that he wasn't even Able to deport as many people as President Obama when it's so much more of a sort of a central focus of his.

2 (10m 6s):
Yeah. I think the answer is he's managed to keep a lot more people out. His Focus really has been on the southern border and in preventing Asylum Seekers from coming over the Border or just people who are trying to migrate illegally. So we've actually seen the numbers go down from something like a hundred and forty thousand last May 250 thousand in most recent months and that's pretty significant. So I think that's something that we can see him holding up as one of his primary accomplishments in his first term

1 (10m 44s):
and of course one area where President Trump has focused a lot more attention than his predecessor is on lowering legal immigration into the United States, which we have covered on the show as well. What do his accomplishments look like four years later? They're

2 (10m 59s):
well, so Trump famously said once that he wanted to prevent people from coming from shithole countries to the US. He defined those as primarily non-white non-european countries. He first of all implemented the public charge rule, which is kind of wonky. But basically it created a wealth test for people applying for a certain visas or permanent residency and it effectively bans poor immigrants. He also got ID the Refugee program and we're currently taking in fewer refugees than ever we used to take in over a hundred thousand people a year from all over the world and Trump just announced that next year will only take in up to 15,000 which is the lowest cap on Refugee admissions we've ever had.

2 (11m 45s):
So what's been the upshot of this

1 (11m 46s):
over all four years of President Trump reducing undocumented immigration reducing legal immigration passing travel bans expanding travel bans. How is this change this notion? That the United States is this nation of immigrants that this is the place for the world's tired and poor and huddled masses for for them to find opportunity.

2 (12m 10s):
I mean, I think Ken cuccinelli whose second in command at the Department of Homeland Security summarized it pretty well. He famously changed the Statue of Liberty quote. Would you also agree that Emma Lazarus has words etched on the Statue of Liberty. Give me your tired. Your poor are also part of the American ethos. They only our give me your tired and your poor who can stand on their own two feet and who will not become a public charge and we really seen the effects of that philosophy play out Trump has been really effective at keeping immigrants out by some estimates. He's cut legal immigration by 49% He has brought migration at the southern border practically to a halt as of this point, even if he doesn't move forward, he's already vastly transformed the American Immigration system and the effects of that could He much Outlast his presidency for decades to come.

1 (13m 2s):
Why isn't President Trump talking about this more. I mean, it's an area where he's been comparatively very

2 (13m 9s):
successful. I think you're right. There has been a shift in Trump's rhetoric recently. But I guess now what we're seeing is really, you know, while migrant Caravans and international criminal gangs like MS-13. We're kind of being used as scapegoats in his rhetoric before we're now seeing anti-fun BLM replacing them as What he considers to be the top Public Enemies?

1 (13m 35s):
It's still sort of surprising to me though that you know at the debates at the RNC. He doesn't talk that much about immigration when it was so key to firing up his base and firing. What seemed like himself up in rallies after rally after rally does does talking about Law and Order like fit as the perfect substitute for this issue? That is so essential to who Donald Trump is as a

2 (13m 60s):
politician. I think it does. It's all part of the same theme, really? Lee and his supporters, I think have been satisfied with the job he's done immigration. They use the build the wall is as a rallying cry to this day, but I think now it may be more about there being a sex within the Republican party that is interested in averting the reality of a minority majority country which could come about as early as the 2040s and that would be devastating to them electorally. So I think there really are a lot of immigration restriction. In certain wings of the GOP.

2 (14m 45s):
After the break how President

1 (14m 46s):
Trump's America First policy has worked around the

2 (14m 49s):
world.

1 (14m 60s):
I've been telling you for a few weeks now to listen to who we are a Chronicle of racism in America a podcast from Ben & Jerry's that's brought to with the folks over at vaux creative the sort of advertising side of VOX media, but I'm going to be completely honest because honesty is the best policy I actually haven't heard it yet because you know, when you make a daily podcast, it's hard to like just listen to other podcasts all the time. But let me look it up who we are on Spotify not because you know Got any deal with Spotify because here it is on my computer. I use it sometimes to listen to music and and podcasts and looks like we've got four episodes right now who we are that you can find on your podcast player of choice. Not necessarily Spotify.

1 (15m 41s):
There are other ones overcast is one of heard about Stitcher, of course Friends of the show. Anyway episode 1 desire Prosperity Fortune. Hope episode to the failure of the Great Compromise episode 3 a home and the country episode. For broken bootstraps who we are wherever you listen. Jane Williams your the foreign editor here at vaux your co-host of the worldly podcast. I just spoke to Nicole about how Trump's America First policy looked here in the United States with regard to immigration, but I wanted to ask you how its looked abroad.

1 (16m 22s):
How is this America First Vision been realized around the world?

2 (16m 28s):
Yeah. So after four years, he's got a pretty solid story to tell right? He's got a pretty good. Record to sell to the American people for re-election.

1 (16m 39s):
The problem is what do you actually look a little bit closer at the specifics of all of the things that he accomplished? It's not quite as shiny as it looks at first

2 (16m 47s):
glance.

1 (16m 51s):
What's the best story he could sell what's the best version of it?

2 (16m 55s):
So you'll he actually hear him at rallies kind of give the greatest hits. So he talks about pulling out of the Iran nuclear

1 (17m 1s):
deal the disastrous Iran nuclear deal. eel and impose the toughest-ever sanctions on the world's number one state sponsor of terrorism

2 (17m 13s):
also assassinated a high-ranking Iranian

1 (17m 15s):
General qasem soleimani Solomon he was plotting eminent and Sinister attacks on American diplomats and military personnel, but we caught him

2 (17m 27s):
he's in the process of pulling a lot of US troops out of the Middle East he made this peace deal with the Taliban and Afghanistan to kind of help that process along. He actually moved the US Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. That's something that politicians of both parties have been promising to do when they were gone, you know the campaign Trail and then when they got

1 (17m 47s):
into office Probably in the Democrats really no not doing that. But he actually did it. How do we recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights confronted North

2 (17m 59s):
Korea and their nuclear weapons program. He even had this like meeting several meetings with Kim Jong Hoon. I built this relationship. I will go back and forth

1 (18m 8s):
and then we fell in love. Okay. No, really. He wrote me beautiful letters and they're great letters. We fell in love.

2 (18m 17s):
He's gotten tough on China. Anna he tried to negotiate a new trade deal. They signed kind of like the preliminary version of a trade deal. He renegotiated the NAFTA agreement. So he did like a lot of these things. He pressured us allies to pay more for their own defense, you know in NATO. These are all things that he campaigned on and are all things that are very much under the America first kind of agenda.

1 (18m 45s):
Well, I'm sure there's lots of different ways to measure the success of all these policies but let's just talk about making America and the world safer. How do these policies measure up in that regard?

2 (18m 57s):
So it depends on who you ask

1 (18m 59s):
but you're asking me so I guess I would say

2 (19m 2s):
not a whole lot safer. Take North Korea for instance. So the country hasn't tested anymore icbms icbms are intercontinental ballistic missiles. These are like the big missiles that could potentially Bring a nuclear weapon from North Korea all the way to the United States. So Kim hasn't tested any more of those since he and Trump started, you know, these talks. They also haven't held another nuclear test, you know, testing a nuclear weapon which like those are really good things, but they're also

1 (19m 30s):
not anything that is you know has anything to do with what Trump

2 (19m 33s):
actually did there's no agreement. There's no progress. These talks have stalled and meanwhile

1 (19m 40s):
North Korea continues to enhance its nuclear and ballistic missile program. That's according to a new yet to be republished un report seen by CBS news report also says Pyongyang may be developing a submarine capable of carrying ballistic missiles. If anything their nuclear program is

2 (19m 59s):
more robust than I was when Trump took office even though he's had these talks.

1 (20m 3s):
So we see the canoe same kind of

2 (20m 5s):
thing over and over again. So go to Iran right he pulled out of the Iran nuclear deal promising that he was going to like it renegotiate it and get an even better one. Well there. Is no better deal that we have yet. There's no deal. Meanwhile, Iran has taken steps to being able to build a nuclear weapon if it decided to do

1 (20m 24s):
so, right and staying in the Middle East. I mean, what about Iraq and Isis and

2 (20m 30s):
Afghanistan? Yeah. I mean when he came into office he promised to go Crush Isis and to his credit he kind of did right. He basically took the gloves off the military and said, you know go in there and do what you need to do to get rid of this ice. Isis caliphate so in that respect. Yeah, like unbalanced much safer. But in Afghanistan, it's not quite as clear. He made a peace deal with the Taliban and you know is in the process of Bringing Down the number of troops, but those conflicts like aren't still settled like the underlying conflicts going on like the Taliban still hasn't made an agreement with the Afghan government. Like there's still a war going on. He's just done stuff to get the u.s.

2 (21m 12s):
Out of here. So it doesn't matter what happens to the rest.

1 (21m 15s):
You guys all these countries that we invaded a long time ago.

2 (21m 17s):
We're just going to get out and you guys figure it out from here.

1 (21m 20s):
And that seems to sort of aligned with Trump pulling out of international agreements and saying that our allies needs a cough up more money in our International Accords be it NATO or NAFTA or anything else. Is that a place where President Trump can boast some major

2 (21m 36s):
accomplishments. I mean, yes and no, right. So he has, you know pushed NATO allies to pay more for their own defense, but It's also something that previous presidents push for and a lot of the countries like Germany to do that. And will they were already going to do that? Anyway, what he's done on the other hand is alienate a lot of these

1 (21m 56s):
allies in yesterday's meeting the president opening question whether NATO should defend countries that don't

2 (22m 2s):
pay their fair share

1 (22m 3s):
on defense while adding Canada was the president's words only semi

2 (22m 9s):
delinquent. So it's not like he got a ton out of it, but what he did to get there was

1 (22m 15s):
We damaging and I imagine that hasn't made it easier to spread American values abroad. How is that sort of age-old effort of presidents past gone under Trump?

2 (22m 26s):
Oh, yeah, we're not doing that anymore. Like

1 (22m 28s):
that's just over. It's just completely done

2 (22m 31s):
Trump doesn't really care about those values like democracy and freedom of speech like he's fighting that stuff here at home. So it's not like he, you know really cares about spreading that around the world. So we're just kind of done with that.

1 (22m 46s):
Think about Hong Kong right Hong Kong police fired pepper balls at protesters and arrested hundreds of people on Sunday. China had passed this National Security Law

2 (22m 55s):
crack down hard core in Hong Kong and the Trump Administration hasn't really done much also in China like the weekers. The China's government is putting you know, uighur Muslims in what are effectively concentration camps. They call them re-education camps by like the thousands

1 (23m 11s):
and Trump, you

2 (23m 13s):
know, according to John Bolton's Trump even told Xi Jinping of China that like yeah, that's a good idea that you should do that

1 (23m 20s):
and I guess related to that lack of leadership on Democracy abroad. Is this sort of cozying up to strongmen abroad be it gyre both scenario in Brazil or Kim Jang Hoon in North Korea, or of course Vladimir Putin and

2 (23m 39s):
Russia. Yeah, like Trump's really good at making like Democratic allies really mad at him. Him and at making authoritarian leaders really happy getting along

1 (23m 49s):
with Russia would be a good thing. Not a bad thing and just about everybody agrees to that except very stupid

2 (23m 56s):
people like recently everyone pretty much believes light Amir Putin had his main opposition leader. This guy named Alexei navalny poisoned, right? The guy almost died and Trump keeps getting asked about it.

1 (24m 8s):
So I don't know exactly what happened. I think it's it's tragic. It's terrible. It shouldn't happen. We haven't had any proof yet, but I will take a look. Yeah, we do but he like still

2 (24m 21s):
refuses to say anything it so it's the kind of same kind of thing. Right? Like he has these close relationships with these authoritarian foreign leaders and its really disturbing.

1 (24m 39s):
What might four more years of Donald Trump in the White House look like for our foreign policy

2 (24m 46s):
a lot of experts. I talked to really fear that if he wins a second term that he could to really lasting damage to America's standing in the world right pulling out of international organizations. Like the who the World Health Organization. The Paris climate Accords like is your things that after a few years that a new president could get back in but after like 8 years like it's a really Time in the world is going to move on and United States is going to be kind of left behind. So it's not really America First its America left behind. You know pulling the u.s. Back isn't going to make the US stronger in the world.

2 (25m 27s):
It's going to make us have less influence. And that means that other actors particularly China are going to have more room to do whatever they want. And what they want is not democracy.

1 (25m 49s):
Jen Williams, she's one of the hosts of the worldly podcast from Fox on this week's episode. She Nur co-hosts talk about the protests in Nigeria and Thailand will continue our series on the Trump years next Friday with a look at the two big investigations President Trump face Mueller and that little to do over one perfect phone call to Ukraine you can find more. Our series and vox.com / Trump years. It's today explained. And now the ones we lost along the way.

1 (26m 32s):
HR McMaster,

2 (26m 33s):
where did HR McMaster

1 (26m 34s):
go wrong as National Security advisor taking the job fired Joe Hagan resigned mirror Rickard L the first lady Melania Trump. She's now

2 (26m 47s):
stepping in using her voice

1 (26m 48s):
to call for the dismissal of one specific staff or the deputy National Security advisor fired. Tom Holman resigned Jeff sessions President Trump wrote on Twitter quote. Our Russian Witch Hunt hoax continues all because Jeff sessions didn't tell me he was going to recuse himself. I would have quickly picked someone else so much time and money wasted so many lives ruined and sessions knew better than most that there was no collusion fired Ty Cobb resigned Nadia Chad Lowe resigned Scott Pruett Pruitt had an EPA staff member try to set up a meeting with the CEO of Chick-fil-A to get a franchise for his wife resigned David shulkin fired.

1 (27m 50s):
before we go for the day reminder that support for the show today comes from who we are a new podcast from Ben & Jerry's and vaux creative a Chronicle of racism in America based on ACLU Deputy legal director, Jeffrey Robinson's Acclaim presentation of the same name who we are breaks down the origins and ongoing impact of white supremacy on our elections Health Care economy, and so much more new episodes of the show come out on Tuesdays and you Ann listen wherever you listen