1 (13s):
The last time we talked about Syria on the show was back in October of 2019 President Trump removed US troops and turkey moved in. There was a new humanitarian crisis in Northern Syria on the Turkish border. But now the worst humanitarian crisis in Syria is now nine year Civil War is unfolding along a different part of its border with turkey in idlib province in Northwestern Syria. This crisis has less to do with Trump. Troops and more to do with the decision that the world sort of collectively made during President Obama's tenure to avoid involvement in another endless foreign conflict that decision gave Russia and Bashar al-assad control.

1 (59s):
And now it look province is the last desperate stronghold for those who oppose Allah said, dr. Omar Al haraki is right in the middle of it. I spoke to him on Wednesday over Skype right after he finished performing surgery. Hello, Mark. Can you hear me?

3 (1m 20s):
Yeah, I can hear you clearly.

1 (1m 22s):
Hi. Thanks for making time for us

3 (1m 24s):
a nice talking to

1 (1m 25s):
you. Tell me a little bit about what's going on in Italy province in Northern Syria right now.

3 (1m 32s):
Yeah, unfortunately now it is now witnessing heretic atrocities by the Assad regime backed by Russia in the air and pro-iranian militias on the ground in Northwest Syria represent. One of the world's most humanitarian crisis. We're civilian are suffering on extraordinary levels to be specific. We are talking about 1 million civilians who have been fleeing their homes towards the syrian-turkish border. And unfortunately, the crisis is further worsened by the winter and the freezing weather the majority of internally displaced persons are now live in informal camps or in filled.

3 (2m 18s):
With little or no access to the healthcare services Water Sanitation and hygiene

1 (2m 25s):
and when people come to you and your hospital, what condition are they and what are they coming in? Most needing?

3 (2m 30s):
Yeah, our Hospital received an enormous number of patients who have been recently displaced. So we work around the clock to operate the pay our patients. The the fast majority of them are war-related injuries by the bombing and air strikes against civilians. The majority of them are women children, so despite the dire conditions and worsening security. We are trying to to deal with the situation with our resources despite. The fact that there is a lack of fund for the medical facilities here in idlib by the International Community and international organization and the VA Russian detailed in the UN to cross border aids for our

1 (3m 18s):
Prevents. Where does that leave you what are you? What are you offering people when they come in? Are you able to save lives or do you feel like you've got a hand or two tied behind your back?

3 (3m 31s):
Yeah. Well we are we are we are we have been working tirelessly to provide Emergency Medical Services for people here to save lives as possible as we can. There is a lack of equipment lack of medicines. We were forced to cease Medical And to close hospitals and made Mass displacement and those qualities because a lack of fund for our hospitals as well as the most important point that more than 70 Hospital have been targeted by the Sad War plans which considered a war crimes and yesterday 10 schools have been bombed deliberately by the Assad missiles in idlib city and moderate masurian in car Northern Countryside.

3 (4m 18s):
I'd and that's war crimes against civilians civilians are paying the price of this puta

1 (4m 25s):
law. Are you scared for your own safety?

3 (4m 29s):
Yeah, to be honest. We are under the threat of being attacked by the Assad regime work work plans because we are working in one of the most dangerous area on the world. And as I told you that the hospital is more dangerous than the front line. However, we risked Our Lives to He'll this sick and injury of our people and civilians we go to our work now and knowing that we may not return our homes. Simply. That's our duty.

1 (4m 60s):
How do your colleagues feel about working trying to save the lives of syrians while the leader of Syria might one day attack your hospital.

3 (5m 12s):
Yum, well, we we are to him when you see children and women and trying to save lives. It was pork at everything you will you will forget shelling and attacking a bottle bomb just you will focus on how to save lives how to to protect ourselves holidays that the lamp of your patients or to to trying to do anything for him. That's our T so we are knowing that maybe tomorrow we will not be alive and we're trying to love just to see to think anything rather than dying.

1 (5m 55s):
How long have you been there?

3 (5m 57s):
Yeah. I've been working here since 2014. I've worked two years in Aleppo City in eastern free Aleppo and now an ad lib since their

1 (6m 9s):
2016. Is this the worst it's ever been?

3 (6m 12s):
Yeah, I think so because of the incredible humanitarian crisis because when you see the people who are fleeing their homes who are trapped between the clothes Turkish border and and ability to relocate other parts of Syria with guarantees of their safety. You will be sad you will be shocked the because sometimes when I want to maybe a transport patient from one area to another or to discharge them home. They told me we don't have whom we don't have even tense because even the camps have been attacked by the protocol Assad

1 (6m 49s):
regime. Do you feel like the world has forgotten about these 1 million refugees about Syria?

3 (6m 57s):
Yeah. Well, we think so. Oh all the people he has say that the humidity is dying CNN's feel abundant by the word because why why the International Community is blind deaf mute. Mute to the endless and daily atrocity by the Assad regime. Unfortunately that the International Community is unable to deter Assad regime killing civilians in idlib bomb being hospitals pumping schools that shame for the International

1 (7m 27s):
Community. So, you know, what would you say to people listening? What do you want people to do? We

3 (7m 33s):
hope that American citizens pressure on President Donald Trump to to stop the atrocities by the Assad regime and Immediately mobilized for emergency funding and help help us as a medical staff here to meet the needs of displaced population and to stop this pootle wall and to get rid of Bashar al-assad to have democracy here and to have a freedom and for our people or it's not only a humanitarian crisis for 3.5 million here. We are talking about three millions in Turkey one millions in Lebanon and half a million. You know 1 million in Europe and maybe at least 7 million internally displaced in other parts of Syria.

3 (8m 21s):
It's the it's complicated but by Donald Trump and the International Community, they can intervene to stop the atrocities by the Assad regime and

1 (8m 32s):
Russia. Do you think peace is possible at this point? Yeah,

3 (8m 45s):
to be honest. I don't think so. But in the future, we hope that because maybe if you lost we will try to change the Syrian regime to change this criminal regime maybe after one year two years to get our Dream to get the freedom to get the Democracy, you know in our country

1 (9m 10s):
Omar wish you all the best man. Good luck.

3 (9m 12s):
Oh, yeah. Thanks. Thanks for having me.

1 (9m 22s):
Omar Al haraki is an orthopedic surgeon in idlib Province Syria after the break how it lived became the epicenter of this crisis. I'm Sean ramas Purim. It's today explained. Hello, this is Jesse David Fox. I'm a senior editor at vulture and I host the podcast good one a podcast about jokes.

1 (10m 3s):
It's a podcast about well jokes every

2 (10m 7s):
week. I sit down with a comedian comedy writer or director. We list a one of their jokes and figure out how it all came together. I don't sit down with a pen in the pad and physically write down everything. I just does not my style turns out comedians take jokes pretty seriously. I like all Okay, that's what I do. That's what I live for this really nothing else. I care about it's all very revealing. What did you sort of learn from this? What was your takeaway? All right. Nothing guy. I'm not I'm not a smart person good one from vulture and the Box media podcast Network subscribe for free on Apple podcasts or on your favorite podcast app. You do not to use the puck is a parade.

1 (10m 46s):
Oh, what a great question. Just see David Fox. Hi, I'm Ariel Jim Ross. And I'm the host of a podcast called reset reset is a podcast about the impact of technology how humans have shaped it and how technology reflects our values and biases reset is also a podcast about how much good Tech has accomplished and how much better it could be if we listen to each other recently we've covered stories about how artificial intelligence is being used to track coronavirus. We've also covered how to solve the problem of child Predators on gaming sites and why our night sky might Be filled with thousands of new satellites subscribe to reset for

2 (11m 26s):
free on Apple podcasts

1 (11m 28s):
Spotify or in your favorite podcast app later nerds. Jim Kirby you've been covering Syria for Vox. How did this province idlib become the epicenter for the Syrian refugee crisis. So the Syrian Civil War started in 2011 it began with protests against the Syrian

3 (11m 53s):
president.

2 (11m 58s):
There were protests across Syria after Friday prayers all were demanding an end to the rule of President Bashar al-assad

1 (12m 5s):
and it turned into an open conflict between opposition groups that opposed Assad's regime and rebel groups took over parts of Syria

2 (12m 14s):
opposition fighters in Syria. Say they've taken control of a major military base. It's the biggest in the country's

1 (12m 21s):
North by 2015 Russia who is an ally of Assad. Got involved on series behalf. And once Russia got involved at change the game because they were able to bring power from the air and really back up Assad and basically after 2015 Assad started taking back a lot of the territory that he had lost key strongholds. Like Aleppo

2 (12m 46s):
pro-government forces are on the verge of a total military Victory but inside these besieged neighbourhoods are civilians caught in a war

1 (12m 53s):
zone once Assad started taking Back those areas all those people who lived in these places that were once controlled by the opposition the groups that opposed Assad basically had no place to go. They couldn't stay there in this territory that was reclaimed by the government. And so a lot of these people were displaced from those areas and taken to idlib which was still under Rebel control and now it is the last Rebel stronghold. The last place that Assad needs to retake to completely defeat the opposition and that's how we ended up here. So to be clear here ad lib is still under opposition control. Yes, and so it live which is a province.

1 (13m 35s):
There's also the city of idlib just to be clear. So the province which had about 1.5 million people during the course of the Civil War that population basically doubled to about three million people. So about half of them have been displaced from other parts of Syria everyone sort of centered there and now Assad wants to rest it all back into his control. What's the approach he's taking basically No mercy, you know Assad has shown through the course of this Civil War that he does not care about ruthlessly attacking civilian. So he is carrying out this offensive from the south and the East who tried to advance and retake the territory.

1 (14m 15s):
He's using a bombing campaign backed up by Russia in the air which is, you know, known to not just indiscriminately bomb civilian areas, but Target schools hospitals markets places where civilians so he's just using Brute Force to try to defeat the opposition and bring this last remaining territory into submission and it's working. Yeah. Nobody is surprised that this is taking place and the world actually thought this was going to happen back in September of 2018. But at the last minute turkey who back some of the rebels that are in controlled parts of the region and Russia, who is the Ally of Assad and Syria, they came to a last-minute ceasefire that Basically avert the crisis and the deal was they would establish these D escalation zones and turkey would try to disarm some of the rebels in these areas this ceasefire kind of held for much of last year, but started to fall apart in the spring when turkey couldn't really uphold its end of the bargain and Assad was growing impatient.

1 (15m 21s):
And so he kind of re-upped this offensive and there were some temporary ceasefires but nothing really held And then in December of last year Assad just went all

2 (15m 30s):
out towns and Villages and not where Syria under attack by government Jets a grim reality throughout the nine years Civil War. But for the first time the government assault in idlib has put turkey and the Syrian regime it had Direct military confrontation. So

1 (15m 54s):
since December, it's been pretty. Brutal and almost a million people have fled to move closer to the Turkish border according to the United Nations. So is the only end to this humanitarian crisis Assad winning. I mean, I don't want to be cynical but the world hasn't had some game changing intervention thus far and it doesn't feel like it's coming. No, I mean for all purposes Assad has and I put this in quotes one the Syrian Civil War. I mean with Russia's backing he's not Anywhere, but for reasons that are strategic it would has access to these important roadways, but also symbolic he wants to make it clear that he will not tolerate this again that if you defy him, you will pay the price and so this is about making a point to the country about who he is and what this victory means and the question is will Russia or turkey.

1 (16m 57s):
Potentially figure out a way to avert this humanitarian catastrophe again. The question is even if they were able to sort of stem the immediate emergency. The long-term solution is still a little bit unclear and what's the rest of the world doing in the meantime? So the rest of the world has strongly condemned the violence in idlib, the United Nations has called for a ceasefire especially to access to humanitarian Aid which is becoming increasingly difficult because a there's It's not a lot of space. So most of the humanitarian Aid groups obese from me talking to sources are operating across the border in Turkey Secretary of State. Mike Pompeo has also called for a permanent ceasefire and for you know, political talks under United Nations resolution and says that President Trump is in discussions with turkey, who is again, you know a NATO Ally but in terms of immediate action or intervention, none has happened and Remember so many thousands of people are displaced and don't have anywhere to go and turkey.

1 (18m 3s):
The immediate neighbor is not taking any more refugees in and Europe certainly doesn't want any more refugees and United States. We know has lowered its cap on refugees. So the world isn't exactly opening its doors to all these people who are in the process of being displaced are who are ready refugees from Syria, but despite all the condemnations the most likely outcome here. Is that Assad successfully quashes this final stronghold of opposition and what countless syrians died including children who are currently freezing to death. I've asked a lot of experts that question. What does this mean? Is this a large-scale massacre is this, you know thousands of people just rushing the border of turkey is this people dying of starvation or illness or freezing cold?

1 (18m 56s):
What is the outcome? And no one has really given me a satisfying answer because we just don't really know. If turkey and Russia and everyone can get around a table to at least come up with an immediate plan. Maybe the crisis can be muted a little bit. Even if it doesn't work for the long term, but could the worst happen. I don't think it can be ruled out and that feels unsatisfying and depressing to say but this is the reality that there is a massive devastating humanitarian crisis unfolding before the eyes of the world.

1 (19m 38s):
Nobody has any good answers on how to deal with it and no one is really taking the initiative to try to stop it.