0 (1s):
Millions of Americans need insulin to live. But for decades, one in six of them haven't been able to afford

1 (9s):
It. Antoinette Washam carries the ashes of her 22 year old daughter Octavia, who died last year after being forced to ration insulin she couldn't afford at $1,000 a month.

2 (21s):
It's either pay your rent, pay your car payment, or get your medication.

0 (27s):
Now, after decades of public pressure, one of the world's biggest insulin producers is saying it will cap the price

3 (34s):
Drug maker. Eli Lilly says It will cap out of pocket cost for insulin at $35 a month,

0 (40s):
But even that price would have the creators of this drug rolling in their graves ahead on today explained. We're gonna figure out how a cheap drug got so expensive and whether a price cap on insulin could lead to cheaper drug costs. Across the board.

5 (60s):
Support for this episode comes from H B O Max Perry Mason and Associates are back on the case months after their last trial rocked the city. Perry Della and Paul braced themselves for their next high profile murder case. But in the city of Angels, nothing is what it seems. Starring Emmy Award winner Matthew Reece, season two of Perry Mason, is now streaming on H B O Max.

7 (1m 31s):
My name is Dylan Scott and I'm a senior correspondent covering healthcare at Vox.

0 (1m 37s):
How big of a game changer is this price cap on insulin?

7 (1m 41s):
What's interesting about this is that Eli Lilly is voluntarily capping out-of-pocket costs every month for insulin customers at $35 and essentially matching what Congress authorized for people on Medicare in the Inflation reduction Act last year.

8 (2m 0s):
For the first time in history, there will be cost controls for prescription drugs through Medicare. President Biden's Inflation Reduction Act will soon reign in some drug prices covered under Medicare, those

7 (2m 13s):
Prices. What Eli Lilly is doing is saying for people who have private insurance and even for people who are uninsured, they're gonna get the same benefit. They will only have to pay $35 a month for their insulin prescription. So, you know, that is a really big deal. You know, if people who are uninsured certainly can be exposed to the really high prices for insulin that we currently have, you know, those list prices can be as much as like $250. Yikes. And even people who have commercial insurance, you know, if they have a high deductible plan, for example, where they have to spend, you know, like $5,000 of their own money before their benefits kick in, for those folks especially this could have a really meaningful effect in making insulin more affordable.

0 (2m 58s):
So just tell us what this means for people with insurance. Without insurance who rely on insulin. Do they just walk into the pharmacy, throw down $35 and they're set for a month? What's the reality?

7 (3m 10s):
So for people who have private insurance, it should be that simple. For people who are uninsured, it's a little bit more complicated. So what Eli Lilly has asked them to do is download a like digital savings card. So like something you, I presumably could carry around on your phone and you would show that at the pharmacy and you would get the same benefit, the same $35 prescription for your insulin. So you know, there's a little bit of an extra burden for people who are uninsured versus people who have commercial insurance. They're trying to make it a relatively light lift it seems like. But you know, you always worry when there's like additional steps that people have to take to, you know, take advantage of a benefit like that or otherwise access their healthcare.

0 (3m 53s):
How many people in this country Dylan, rely on insulin?

7 (3m 57s):
So there are about 8 million people in the United States who depend on insulin every day. Wow. For people with type one diabetes, which is usually the type that develops early in life, insulin is like absolutely essential. They can't live without it. And even for people with type two diabetes, which tends to develop later, you know, some of those people also their disease progresses to the point that they rely on insulin every day too. My dad was one of those people and we know, you know, before some of these recent actions by Congress and now by Eli Lilly, that a lot of those people struggled to afford this medication that they depend on to survive something like one in six people have said in surveys that they ration their insulin supply because of the cost.

7 (4m 38s):
So, hmm, there's been a long drumbeat for somebody to do something to make insulin more affordable. And so now we are finally starting to see some progress.

0 (4m 48s):
So why is this happening now? Did the drumbeat get really loud?

7 (4m 52s):
Yes, for one, there's just been this really persistent call for insulin in particular to be made more affordable.

9 (5m 3s):
Dozens of people protesting outside Eli Lilly here in Indianapolis, they're demanding lower insulin prices

7 (5m 9s):
Given the number of people who depend on it, given the fact that it's like literally an essential medication, something that people need in order to survive. You know, I think that is created this sustained pressure to do something about insulin. In particular,

9 (5m 23s):
Several people shared stories about rationing insulin because of the price. Aaron Weaver says it killed her son.

10 (5m 30s):
My mother's heart is furious, especially on their website when they say that Lily cares if Lily cared, they wouldn't be killing their consumer base.

7 (5m 42s):
That's why it got singled out by Congress last year for that $35 a month cap. And you know, we're starting to see states develop even more ambitious plans about how to bring down the cost of insulin. So the most exciting proposals would actually involve states producing their own generic insulin and selling it basically for that $10 cost that it takes to produce it.

12 (6m 6s):
Nothing, nothing epitomizes market failures more than the cost of

7 (6m 10s):
Insulin. So California has put some real money behind this effort. They've authorized a hundred million dollars in funding to eventually produce a public generic insulin.

12 (6m 20s):
50 million will go towards the development of low cost insulin products and additional 50 million will go towards a California based insulin manufacturing facility that will provide new high paying jobs in a stronger supply chain. For the drug.

7 (6m 33s):
Michigan governor Gretchen Whitmer has called for her state to do the same thing, put about $150 million behind a program to produce their own public insulin. Some

13 (6m 43s):
People travel across the border to Canada to get their prescription drugs and some cry when they refill their medication knowing that the prescription drugs are saving their life but the cost is killing them.

7 (6m 55s):
And Maine and Washington are at least taking a look at the same idea. There's also been some nonprofit efforts. There's a group called Civica rx, which is basically a cooperative of hospital systems that is planning to develop its own generic medications and they're starting with insulin.

14 (7m 13s):
What Civica is is the first of its kind not-for-profit generic drug company that's truly organized in a way that nobody owns it. That the only value, the only value that it can distribute is to the patients it

7 (7m 29s):
Serves. And so there's just like, it's become clear that sooner or later a cheaper generic insulin is gonna come on the market and an attempt to disrupt these major drug manufacturers' business that thus far they've been able to dominate for almost a hundred years at this point. And so I think that's what these guys are trying to get ahead of by voluntarily taking these steps to lower people's out of pocket costs. They know that unless they do something, you know, lawmakers are only gonna become more aggressive about taking their own steps to try to make insulin more affordable. So why not get ahead of the game a little bit. They've had some embarrassing public episodes recently too. Like, you know, there was that Twitter impersonator who after Elon Musk made all those verification changes to Twitter, basically made a Lilly impersonation accountant.

7 (8m 17s):
Oh

0 (8m 17s):
Yeah.

15 (8m 19s):
If you've been on Twitter in the past week, you've no doubt seen the chaos that Elon Musk's new pay for play account verification system has created a phony verified account for pharmaceutical giant. Eli Lilly tweeted that it would begin offering insulin for free

7 (8m 33s):
And everybody freaked out

15 (8m 35s):
The company stock price tanked by more than 4% and punk rock

7 (8m 39s):
And it kind of culminated with the company's own CEO acknowledging like, yeah, insulin probably should be more affordable.

0 (8m 47s):
How much money is Eli Lilly gonna lose by reducing the price here?

7 (8m 53s):
So that's an open question. I do think it's telling that after Eli Lilly announced this news, the company's stocks went up. Huh. And some of the business commentary that I have read in the wake of this news basically said like they may not actually lose that much money. You know, the insulin manufacturers, most people don't pay the list price. There's pharmacy benefit managers and mandatory rebates for Medicare and Medicaid. Like there's a, a whole kind of complex web underneath the list price that these companies set that filters down and determines what actual patients have to pay for their medications. So it's entirely possible that like they can bring that list price down quite a bit. They can cover the out-of-pocket cost for people that would be above $35 a month and still make a pretty good profit on insulin because this is a drug that we know costs only something like $10 a vial to produce.

7 (9m 44s):
Huh. So there's still plenty of money to be made. You know, there's three major manufacturers at least of insulin in the us at least to this point. Eli Lilly is the only one who has said that they will provide this drug for $35 a month for essentially everyone. And so like maybe they start to get a bigger market share if the other companies don't follow suit. So like it's not necessarily gonna be all that bad for Eli Lilly's business either and they get the PR shine and people get drugs more affordably. So it really does seem to me like close to a all winners no loser situation.

0 (10m 18s):
Okay. So just to be clear here, you're saying that insulins only cost 'em about 10 bucks to make, but they were selling it for as much as like 250 for people a month. How did that get to be?

7 (10m 28s):
Well the US has set up this really warped market for pharmaceuticals that has allowed these three companies to basically dominate the insulin business for the better part of a century. And for a long time that gave them free reign to set prices as high as they wanted to. And because this is an essential medicine that people need to survive, people and their insurers we're gonna have to pay it. But because of the way that the US has set up its prescription drug market, that's what gave these companies such freedom to keep hiking prices And what put us in this position in the first place.

0 (11m 9s):
More on that drug market with Dylan in a minute on today explained

16 (11m 24s):
Al Bruno ran the mob in Springfield, Massachusetts,

17 (11m 28s):
US growing up Italian and you want to be a criminal. Bruno was the guy that we looked up to

16 (11m 33s):
Till he was gunned down in 2003.

18 (11m 37s):
Al Bruno just took about eight to the body at the Italian club on Winthrop Street. I'm like, oh Jesus.

16 (11m 42s):
Bruno's murder was a mystery but also an opportunity. It was law enforcement's best shot at taking down the Springfield mafia once and for all. I'm Ellie honing host of up against the Mob, this Springfield crew. As a federal prosecutor, I took down over 100 mobsters but nothing was as wild as what went down in Springfield.

19 (12m 8s):
Call 9 1 1. I've been shot

16 (12m 11s):
To solve the case we'd have to convince made men to break their code of silence.

7 (12m 17s):
You can't put your hands on 'em or you get

16 (12m 18s):
Killed. And as the dominoes started to fall, all

20 (12m 22s):
Of us just looked at each other like this case is blowing up,

16 (12m 25s):
Up against the mob, the Springfield crew from Cafe and the Vox Media podcast network following your listening app to hear new episodes every Wednesday.

0 (12m 38s):
Have you guys heard of the pitch? It's a podcast you may have previously heard advertised on this show and you are actually currently hearing it advertised on this show right now. The Pitch is a podcast where real entrepreneurs pitch real tech investors for real money and it's back for a real new season. Each episode follows a hopeful entrepreneur through their business pitch before a panel of prospective investors. Founders have raised over 10 million on this show from some legendary early stage investors. Several of these startups are worth hundreds of millions of dollars today. Money, money, money, money.

0 (13m 19s):
This season you'll hear pitches on everything from a better catch up to a potential solution to one of the biggest problems of our time. That would be energy listeners could hear the next billion dollar idea way before anyone else and learn about the world of startup investing along the way. You can follow the pitch to hear new episodes every Wednesday.

21 (13m 43s):
I'm Wilfred Brimley and I'd like to talk to you for a few minutes about diabetes

0 (13m 47s):
Today. Explained We are back with Dylan Scott, senior health correspondent here at Vox and Dylan. We were talking about insulin prices in the first half of the show. I wanna talk about insulin the drug for a minute. How did this thing come to be? I believe we owe a debt of gratitude to a Canadian.

7 (14m 7s):
It's true,

22 (14m 10s):
It's a little difficult to fix an exact date. So it started toward the end of July, 1900 and 21.

7 (14m 17s):
Insulin was discovered about a hundred years ago by four men, Frederick Banting, James Coop, John McLeod, and Charles Best

0 (14m 26s):
Many Canadians,

7 (14m 27s):
Several. It was a group of Canadians actually

22 (14m 30s):
When we first saw the dramatic lowering of the blood sugar of a dog when we gave it a, an extract from pancreas that we thought was potent.

7 (14m 40s):
So what they did was they extracted insulin from the pancreas of a of a healthy dog and they gave that insulin to a dog that had diabetes to see if it would control the second animal's blood sugar substituting for the insulin that it's supposed to be making on its own but can't because it has diabetes. Hmm. And it worked. The dog lived for longer than they, you know, expected or it would have without the insulin.

0 (15m 6s):
How did the dog get diabetes? Was it eaten? Too many lollipops?

7 (15m 10s):
Some animals can get diabetes. Sean, when I was a young boy, I gave my neighbors cat insulin when they were like out of town diabetes. I don't know how it ha how it happens. I guess I presume it's like you say the same kind of thing. Like it can be diet related. Maybe some animals are born with diabetes just like some people basically are born with diabetes. Oh,

0 (15m 32s):
For some reason I read your cat insulin story as like just for fun. But you're saying your neighbors asked you to do

7 (15m 38s):
This. Yes. Oh my god. Wow. What kind of person do you think I am? But yeah, so like animals can develop diabetes just the same as people. So anyway, point being they've tested this insulin from a healthy dog on a diabetic dog. It worked, it helped manage the second dog's blood sugar better than, you know, he would be able to naturally. And so they're like, I

23 (15m 59s):
Think

7 (15m 59s):
We've got it. And they started testing it on people. This was a really big deal before insulin was discovered, the people with type one diabetes, which was that what again you usually develop earlier in your life. There was just nothing to do for folks. Well

23 (16m 14s):
I knew I was going to die. Everybody at that age with diabetes then died within four or five years, whatever they

7 (16m 20s):
Did. There was a young man who had type one diabetes who was the first person they administered the insulin two. And they found again that it was successful in managing a person's blood sugar. And so, you know, they recognized the significant of this discovery and what they decided to do was sell the patent for insulin to the University of Toronto for a dollar. And you know, one of the guys who had discovered it, Frederick Banting, said that he thought insulin belonged to the world. And so that's why they were basically just giving away this drug that, you know, even back then was self evidently a enormous deal. But you know, over time private enterprise entered the picture and those, you know, altruistic intentions did not provide that guarantee that those guys hoped that everybody who needed insulin would be able to get it.

0 (17m 10s):
So basically these four scientists invent insulin, start saving lives immediately and I guess have been rolling over in their graves ever since they died because of what's happened to prices here

7 (17m 23s):
Presumably. So, you know, it became obvious very quickly that private drug companies saw the business opportunity here and they weren't gonna hold back from it. And you know, over the following decades, drug companies did make really important improvements to insulin. You know, they made it longer lasting. More recently they've made it more rapid acting and like those can be really important for people's life management. You know, if you need to time your insulin injection based on like when you're gonna eat a meal, having a really dependable release and knowing exactly when your insulin is gonna kick in can be really important. And you know, they eventually, you know, we started with the animal insulin that these guys up in Canada first use.

7 (18m 4s):
But over time, you know that we started to develop like human kind of bioengineered human insulin, which was even more effective. And then more recently synthetic insulins have kind of become the dominant product on the market and those come with certain advantages, especially for certain patients, again, in terms of being longer lasting or more rapid-acting. But the problem is for, given the way that the prescription drug market is structured for all drugs, not just insulin, is it became really easy for these three companies, Eli Lilly, Sanofi and Nova Nordisk to just kind of dominate the insulin market. You know, by the nineties and the two thousands, they were the only game in town.

7 (18m 43s):
These new synthetic insulins were the hottest products that they had developed. And we suddenly started to see prices skyrocket. I believe from 1999 to 2019 the price of some insulins increased by a thousand percent. What? And you know, that's where we started to see these horrible stories about people rationing insulin and just finding that this medication that they depended on to stay alive was no longer affordable

0 (19m 9s):
A thousand percent. How, how do people not take to the streets with

7 (19m 13s):
Pitchforks? Well I do think, you know, what we've started to see here in the last year or two is sort of the, the culmination of people's anger and frustration with what's been going on. But the truth of the matter is like the US has set up a system for prescription drugs that basically allows companies to do that. As people might know, when a company develops a new drug, like one of these synthetic insulins, they get a monopoly on it. They're the only company that can sell it for 10 years or more before a generic competitor can basically copy the drug and try to sell it at its lower cost. But like beyond that initial monopoly that these companies are given, you know they've got all kinds of ways for extending that patent.

7 (19m 54s):
You know, they can make little adjustments to the, you know, chemical compounds that are in these drugs. They can even in the case of insulin, like make changes to the devices that people use to inject the insulin into their bodies. And that can help to extend the patent. And once we ended up in this situation where there were three companies, you know, huge companies that had basically the entire US insulin market under their control, you know, it became really unappealing for anybody to try to enter that market and provide a cheaper, you know, competitive alternative. Hmm. Because what these companies can do, you know, because they are setting these list prices that are so much higher than the cost of production. If they start to hear rumblings, they're like, oh this other fourth company is thinking about getting involved in in producing insulin.

7 (20m 40s):
They can just drop their prices and still make a profit as we're seeing right now. And for that fourth company that was thinking about getting into the the insulin game, suddenly it's a lot less appealing business opportunity. And we've seen that kind of thing happen over the years where there was rumblings that a new company was thinking about getting involved and ultimately pulled out because the existing manufacturers preemptively cut prices. And it's really only been here in the last couple years when there's been these new ventures, Civica Rx, that cooperative of hospital systems and some of these state projects that are starting to get underway in California and elsewhere where like there actually isn't any kind of profit motive there.

7 (21m 19s):
Like those nonprofits and those government programs, those would be selling insulin for the cost to produce it. And like that's a much bigger disruption than these companies have faced before. And I think that's why we're starting to see them take more aggressive actions to try to address the cross crisis before those projects really get going.

0 (21m 39s):
So now that Eli Lilly is capping the price of insulin at $35, do you at least think the other two companies that are competitive in this market, Novo Nordisk and Sanofi, are they gonna lower the cost of insulin two at least?

7 (21m 55s):
Well they're definitely already under pressure to match what Eli Lilly has done. Yeah. Bernie Sanders, I imagine Gleefully sent a letter to Sanofi and Novo Nordis asking them to lower their cost out-of-pocket costs to $35 a month and match what Eli Lilly had done

24 (22m 11s):
As a result of the pressure that the American people are now putting on the pharmaceutical industry, telling them to stop the greed, stop ripping off the American people. As a result of all of that, what we saw today is Eli Lilly substantially lowered the price they're gonna be charging for insulin and now we are demanding that the other two major insulin manufacturers also lower their prices.

7 (22m 38s):
President Biden has called on the other manufacturers to follow. Eli Lilly said these other companies could do the same thing twisting the knife I imagine just a little bit. So I wouldn't be surprised if in relatively short order we see these other companies do the same thing.

0 (22m 53s):
What about other drugs? Dylan? Insulin's obviously a big deal because as you've said several times here people need it to live. But there are plenty other drugs that people rely on that are out of reach in terms of price.

7 (23m 6s):
That's true. And yeah, the basic structure of the prescription drug market that I described that allowed this to happen is still in place and it applies to all these other medications. And I mean I think, you know, we are starting to see more interesting experiments in prescription drug pricing later this year. Medicare will be allowed to start negotiating the prices of a small number of drugs for the first time. But still, you know, it's a small number of drugs that will grow over the rest of the decade. But like that's a big step that for a long time seem totally out of reach. But I think one of the most interesting things to watch is this idea of the public production of essential medications. You know, know it's starting with insulin.

7 (23m 46s):
That's what California is gonna focus on. That's what Gretchen Whitmer wants Michigan to focus on. But the same kind of model could easily apply to other drugs. You know, I know the people who are working on these kinds of projects and proposals, they're starting to imagine a future where like maybe California produces a public generic insulin and maybe Washington State purchases that public insulin from California and they concentrate on manufacturing EpiPens or some drug that's experiencing a shortage or some other kind of essential medication where there appears to be a market failure that is either, you know, led to not enough of that drug being available or the prices being too high.

7 (24m 26s):
And so, you know, you could have a future where states specialize in producing certain essential medications and trade with one another. That would be a huge disruption to the pharmaceutical market as it currently exists. You know, that's a long way off. Even like California's plans for a public insulin has to get through a bunch of legal and regulatory and scientific barriers to actually get to the point where they can put a product on pharmacy shelves. But given the scale of the drug affordability crisis, given especially how pronounced the problems have been with insulin in particular, states have, have gotten a lot more ambitious in terms of what they're willing to consider to try to do something about it. And I don't know that there's any coming back from that.

7 (25m 9s):
People have just seen pretty plainly how absurd it is that these kinds of drugs could be unaffordable for people in the wealthiest nation on earth. And so whether it's applying this public pressure to try to get companies to do the right thing on their own, as we've seen with Eli Lilly or these kind of alternative models for producing drugs, like having the government do it, that I think, you know, 20 years ago would've been almost unthinkable, are suddenly, you know, being taken seriously. And so I think that is just a sign of how much the conversation around drug prices has changed in the last five to 10 years.

0 (25m 51s):
Dylan Scott, read them and weep@vs.com. Our program today was produced by Halima Shaw. She had help from Laura Bullard, Matthew Collette, AMM Aldi, and Patrick Boyd. I'm Sean Ramas. It's today Explained.