1 (1s):
Google's free tools are designed to help millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working. And right. Now these businesses could use our help support. The place is near you by booking an appointment buying a gift card writing a review more ordering takeout all With a Little Help from Google. Hi, I'm Avery Chapman. And I'm the host of the cut a new podcast from New York Magazine and the VOX media podcast Network every Wednesday. I work with the team at the cut to explore important provocative ideas about the world around us so far. We've discussed what love looks like

3 (39s):
during quarantine the art of nude photos

1 (42s):
and what those nature is healing. We are the virus means can tell us about how we see our role in the environment. We'd love for you to join us. Subscribe to the cut for free in your favorite podcast app to get new episodes each week.

3 (1m 2s):
We raise your right hand and repeat after me.

1 (1m 6s):
I Donald John Trump do solemnly swear. I Donald John Trump do solemnly swear that I will Faithfully execute that. I will Faithfully execute the office of President of the United States the office of President of the United States and will to the best of my ability and will to the best of my ability preserve protect and defend Preserve protect and defend the Constitution of the United States the Constitution of the United States so help me God so help me God congratulations. Mr. President. It's they explained. I'm Sean Rama's

3 (1m 46s):
forum

1 (1m 47s):
for years ago Donald Trump from reality TV won the presidency and our shared reality hasn't been the same since the Relentless pace of headlines controversies and tweets. Has rendered the country divided at present and unable to fully recollect the past I've seen the Tweet about tapes. Lordy. I hope there are tapes. We struggled to remember what this president said or did last month let alone in 2017 this October leading up to the 2020 election. We're going to help you remember in the coming weeks were bringing you the Trump Years A series that looks back on what Donald Trump did during his four years as president of the United States.

1 (2m 32s):
Dates and what it means for the future of the American political experiment? on today's show the D regulator in Chief Matthew yglesias hosted the weeds podcast from Vox there's always a lot of focus on an American presidents first hundred days, of course with Donald Trump. No one really knew what to expect. What did we learn about this reality TV president in the first three or so months. We'd like to really two things one is that there was going to be a tremendous emphasis on somewhat under the radar changes in regulatory policy if you have a regulation you want number one.

1 (3m 17s):
We're not going to approve it because it's already been approved probably in 17 different forms. But if we do the only way you have a chance as we have to knock out two regulations for every new regulation, so there's a new regulation. They have to knock out to that's a lot of what he did in the first hundred days and looking back on the whole first term. That's a lot of what he's accomplished. The other thing we learned is that a lot of these things did not get much attention because there is so much going on. It feels like there's been a constant din of news and relatively Li little of that news has been about the administrative procedure act but if you want to know how Trump has impacted people's lives how he's really changed things in the country regulatory changes are just a really huge share of that.

1 (4m 1s):
Well, let's give it some attention. Where do we start? So he confirmed meal Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. I want to thank the president for nominating me which people do know about but Gorsuch is a very significant figure in regulatory laws, very deregulatory justice, but then he also used The Congressional review act to undo Obama era regulations at an unprecedented Pace over the last several weeks. We've been using the Congressional review act or what is known as CRS to take action on the explosion of Obamacare regulations hundreds and hundreds of pages of regulations that we've seen hurting families destroying jobs all across the country.

1 (4m 43s):
It's a relatively new law, but it was used very rapidly by Tom. And Congress and he set the wheels in motion on things like the Muslim ban on with drawings in the trans-pacific partnership, but also really a big move to sort of reverse a lot of regulation in the environmental sphere and of the financial regulation that the Obama administration had done before I came into office American workers were smothered by merciless Avalanche of wasteful and expensive and intrusive Federal Regulation. These are SF burdensome mandates were a stealth tax in our people slashing take-home pay suppressing Innovation surging the cost of goods and shipping millions of American jobs overseas millions and millions and millions of never ended obviously whenever a republican is replaced by a Democrat or vice versa.

1 (5m 37s):
There's a certain amount of you know, back and forth and ping-ponging George w-- Bush had what was commonly called the anything but Clinton policy and Ronald Reagan removed. Those solar panels from the White House. Jimmy Carter had installed but with Trump there was a pretty unusual amount. I mean the Congressional review act volume was

3 (5m 56s):
unprecedented.

1 (6m 1s):
This has been an incredible scope of changes. He's reversed over a hundred separate environmental rules. We could do a whole show just probably rattling off their names, but some of the big ones are fuel efficiency and cars and toxins and fertilizer something called the Waters of the United States. Act which would have sort of expanded the scope of you know, clean drinking water type regulation and is one of the rules most strongly opposed by Farmers ranchers and agricultural workers all across our land. It's prohibiting them from being allowed to do what they're supposed to be doing. It's been a disaster and really important thing is that they've changed how cost-benefit analysis is done around air pollution.

1 (6m 44s):
A lot of science has been piling up to show that air pollution is more harmful than we had previously realized. What is this pollution from power plants that we have heard so much about they basically don't want that cold stronger of research to count. They've also moved regulations that are supposed to reduce the levels of carcinogenic potentially brain damaging toxins that are being discharged into American waterways and lakes. There was very early on there was a decision not to move forward with a rule against some kind of fertilizer that scientists think is Is harmful to people's brains and most of us has gotten very little attention as some of it of course relates to climate change but a lot of it is not directly focused on climate and there hasn't been Antics around this kind of thing.

1 (7m 31s):
Scott Pruitt was involved in a fair number of scandals. And so he got attention trying to use his position to get his wife at Chick-fil-A franchise trying to get a used mattress from the Trump International Hotel using staff to run errands to buy lotion, but the sort of ongoing regulatory Reshift that started in the first hundred days very intensely and is continued, you know through to fall of 2020 has been a really big substantive change and not a huge media Focus. How did the deregulation from Donald Trump and his administration at the federal level effect what was going on at the state level? So California was trying to enact stricter emission standards and the federal standard.

1 (8m 11s):
This doesn't have done before they said actually use the large size of the California Market to try to be Over to drive change nationally and Trump has moved to stop that car manufacturers even said like they would comply with the California standards. They kind of wanted peace in the regulatory in fighting so that they could make plans and do some kind of cars the Trump Administration hasn't done that and he's also sort of put a halt on the idea of moving forward. He's made it clear like they don't want to hear from anyone and he scientists any lawyers about new rules are new things that need to be regulated mention Financial deregulation. Elation as well Trump promised to repeal Dodd-Frank. Did he get that done?

1 (8m 52s):
He did not the legislation. I'm signing today rolls back the crippling Dodd-Frank regulations that are crushing Community Banks and Credit Unions Nationwide. They weren't such trouble in 2018. He signed a law that kept the whole structure of the Dodd-Frank law in place, but it really narrowed the number of Institutions that it applies to so a lot of sort of big Regional Banks got out from under These worlds and he's also done new regulatory interpretations. He's revised was called the volcker rule, which is supposed to make Banks take less risk supervised. Something else called the supplementary leverage rule after the financial crisis people thought Banks should not make so many risky bets because we've learned that when the bets go bad.

1 (9m 37s):
The taxpayers are left holding the bag and Trump is really let risky banking come back while leaving some of the the big structure of that Franken place. Ace is it worth asking what his motivations were here on environmental and financial deregulation. You know, I mean, I don't want to say I can read Donald Trump's mind but fundamentally You know, despite a lot of populist rhetoric. This is a rich businessman. He knows a lot of other rich businessmen. He owns golf clubs where rich businessmen are the members and he is very sympathetic to their views business Executives particularly in finance and energy. The sector's they were really upset with the Obama Administration.

1 (10m 21s):
They did not like these regulations. They really wanted them done away with and it's just been a huge priority of the Trump administration's

3 (10m 33s):
is it too soon to

1 (10m 35s):
talk about the long-term impacts of the deregulation or you know positive or negative, you know, so when you let people pollute more the pollution happens right away the health impacts of that. Sometimes only show up over the longer term, although sometimes you know, you see it quite quickly. The financial deregulation is tougher, right because in any given year is unlikely that you'll see a financial crisis, but if you go from sort of one in a thousand odds to one and a hundred odds, you've actually made the economy much more unstable, but nobody's going to know until it all blows up and and to me as somebody who covered the financial crisis and covered the Dodd-Frank to Bates its really kind of shocking how much we just Stop paying attention to this once Trump became president at used to be that people rightly felt.

1 (11m 23s):
It was very important to have a regulated banking sector Trump came in. He's allowed a lot more risk in the financial system and there just hasn't been much talk about it

3 (11m 37s):
after the break. We move

1 (11m 38s):
past all the stuff Trump undid and talk about the one big thing. He you know did Consumers for safe CBD wants to know what's in your CBD in a recent report to Congress the FDA found that a sampling of CBD products. They tested were mislabeled some of them contains more than 120 percent of the CBD amount listed ends nearly 20 products contained th see the ingredient that can cause psychoactive effects as well consumers for safe.

1 (12m 18s):
CBD is calling on the FDA to regulate the CBD Market to protect consumers from To harms posed by untested products though. The FDA has issued warnings. This has not deterred some vendors for making sweeping Health claims about their products ability to treat a wide range of serious medical conditions. Remember just because CBD products are on grocery store shelves does not mean they're risk-free be smart and stay healthy learn more about consumers for safe CBD at for safe. CBD dot-org. That's the number four. Or sa Fe CBD

3 (12m 56s):
Dot o-- r-- g--

1 (12m 59s):
support for the show today comes from calm like calm down. If you've been listening to our show or just you know out there living life in the pandemic, you know, 2020 has been a tough year and calm can help relieve some of the stress or the burnout. So many of us are feeling right now. There's even calm for business. So companies can link up with the number one mental fitness app to give their employees. He's the tools and support they need to stay balanced in the midst of you know, everything calm has an enormous library of soothing stuff designed to reduce stress and help employees get better sleep or talking Lo-Fi music playlists guided meditations hundreds of soothing sleep stories to whisk you off into your dreams.

1 (13m 48s):
And right now cam is offering a free well-being guide and a free demo when you go to my our website calm.com / explained and if Cam for business is right for your team. They're also offering a free month off your first year when you go to com.com explain that is a month of free unlimited access when you go to com.com / explain get started today at the best web site on planet Earth cam.com. / explain.

1 (14m 30s):
Matthew we talked about what he undid. What did he did the the tax cuts on that was the biggie did 2017 tax bill is clearly that the biggest single policy achievement of the Trump Administration on January 1 Americans going to wake up with a new tax code in February. They're going to see withholdings go down. So they see bigger paychecks and April 15th will be the last day. They have to comply with the old bad system. What they did is they created a big reduction in the corporate income tax rate. They partially offset that by closing some loopholes. They did some Cuts in the individual taxes. For example, if you stand to inherit a fortune that is worth tens of millions of dollars.

1 (15m 13s):
I don't but if you are among that lucky group Trump delivered a really significant cut in the taxes, you'll pay then he made some changes to the deductibility of state and local taxes to how mortgage loans are treated in taxes. He increased the size of the child tax credit and a big cut in the taxes owed by multinational corporations that have lots of foreign profits is this like trickle-down economics or something or do you have another name for it? I would say the theory of it is that taxing corporations reduces investment. And so that if you do a big corporate tax cut you're going to see much more.

1 (15m 53s):
Business investment in the United States and then because of all this investment we're all going to end up better off. It means jobs jobs jobs jobs. So it's going to be really a very special period of time. We're in a very special period of time and it's going to be even more so there has not been a ton of evidence that that actually occurred the economy grew until coronavirus truck, but it would basically the same Pace that had been growing with Obama. There was no like obvious inflection point what actually happened is that these became much more profitable the tax cuts weren't beloved by democrats might a Biden presidency mean the reversal of these tax cuts or sort of about-face on them.

1 (16m 35s):
I think we're gonna see the sort of traditional policy dialogue. So when Obama was President he raised taxes particularly on the wealthy. This is not class Warfare It's math Trump cut taxes particularly on the wealthy, but he didn't exactly reverse what Obama had done and if Biden Comes in if he becomes president taxes on the rich will go up again. But the corporate tax rate won't go all the way up to where it was before Trump's presidency because they're going to keep some of the loophole closings that Trump did similarly on the on the individual front Democrats disagree a little bit about exactly how they want to proceed here. But directionally Democrats will reverse the the spirit of cutting taxes on the rich, but they're not going to exactly undo what it is prompted because frankly they agree with parts of it.

1 (17m 23s):
It but usually on the corporate side, right? So what Trump did was he closed a lot of tax loopholes the Democrats thought should be closed and then he just cut the rate way way way way way down. So Democrats are going to keep those loopholes closed and then they're going to raise the rate back up, but they're not going to put it all the way back up to where it was before and what about the rest of the picture the deregulation environmentally financially. It doesn't seem like Biden wants to undo trump sundews. It seems like he wants to do even more. Yeah, but you surround the environmental front of Biden's agenda. I mean it'll depend how much support he gets in Congress for it. But is to go in a much more aggressive way. I mean, he has regulatory ideas.

1 (18m 4s):
But Biden also has big investment commitments on the climate friend transforming the electrical sector power to produce power without carbon pollution. They'll be the greatest spur to job creation and economic competitiveness in the twenty-first century. On the financial front, I think some of Trumps deregulation may just stick because attention to that topic has waned away a little bit and Bank lobbyists are pretty powerful and it's not it's not obvious to me that what Trump has done is going to get under that's so interesting to me like he wanted to undo all this stuff and cut taxes. He was it sounds like pretty successful at it.

1 (18m 44s):
Why doesn't he talk more about these accomplishments? He spends so much time spinning up conspiracy theories and Dog whistling on Law & Order when he actually has concrete achievements. So Trump talks about deregulation in a general kind of way because his polling on quote unquote the economy is strong. So he'll say, you know, he do regulate in the economy one great nearly four years ago. We ended this regulatory assault on the American worker and we launched the most dramatic regulatory relief campaign in American history by far. No other Administration. Has done anywhere near doesn't talk a lot in specific terms.

1 (19m 25s):
He doesn't try to position himself as somebody who finally let them make riskier investments and he almost never talks about his tax law because it was very unpopular. I mean everything that's happened. You know, George Floyd pandemic impeachment when you go back and look at it the low point in his approval rating was when Congress was debating that tax bill nothing that has happened since then has been less popular than that tax law. So, You know, the president will talk about police or almost anything other than his single biggest legislative achievement. How rare is that for for a president single biggest legislative achievement being the thing that that president is least interested in talking about during an election year.

1 (20m 10s):
It's definitely strange right. I mean presidents do things that they try to run away from to an extent, but it's a real pain. Paradox of the Trump era that the central pillar of his policy making this tax law has been so absent from his political self-presentation, right? He does Politics as a culture War figure but there are trillions of dollars at stake in federal tax policy. He did this very unpopular law presumably because he and his team really believe in it. It's what they really want to do. They are here to make America more lightly taxed he would have a much stronger chance of winning if he did popular stuff on the tax front, but he doesn't like to talk about it.

1 (20m 59s):
You know, I wonder all told you know D regulator tax cutter. Did he end up being better at undoing what Obama did or proposing new things? I mean, it's much more a reverser of things that annoy some people about the Obama Administration. Trump has not been a very successful constructive policymaker with Obama. We had Obamacare. There's no Trump anything, right? This is no there's no compound verb, there's no equivalent of the Reagan Revolution that like switched our understanding of how the government did the economy and individuals will relate he's been this very dominant figure in the news who has done a lot of stuff.

1 (21m 49s):
It feels like a very Winchell time that we're living through but as a kind of constructive policymaker who puts new things in place and we say Okay 50 years from now, we'll look back at Donald Trump and the creation of X, right. There's no X

3 (22m 4s):
there.

1 (22m 12s):
Matthew Iglesias he writes about the economy here at vaux. He also wrote a book this year just came out. It's called 1 billion Americans. It's a case for keeping the Country Strong by continuing to build up and to have lots of babies to you can find it wherever you find your books. We're going to continue this series throughout the month of October. You can find more on the Trump years at vox.com Trump ears next week America first, it's fakes

3 (22m 39s):
plate.

1 (22m 52s):
And now the ones we lost along the way. Kevin Mack kalinin resigned John Bolton fired Rick Perry and I said, mr. President. I know there are people that say, you know, you said you were the chosen one and I said you were resigned Dan coats resigned Alexander Acosta resigned Sarah Sanders State for the record which Outlets That you and the president over regard as the enemy of the people.

1 (23m 33s):
I'm not going to walk through a list but I think those individuals probably know who they are

3 (23m 38s):
resigned

1 (23m 40s):
Kirsten Nielsen resigned Scott Gottlieb resigned John Kelly. He was sort of a tough guy by the time he got eaten up in this world. It's a different world than he was used to he was unable to function fired. Bill shine resigned

3 (24m 1s):
Ryan's Inky resigned

1 (24m 4s):
Nikki Haley resigned James Madison. I do stand before you as was noted here really having achieved greatness. I mean, I'm not just an overrated General. I am the greatest the world's most overrated resigned. I'm Julia Freeland and I'm the host of a new series called go For Broke.

1 (24m 46s):
It's about those moments in history. When everyone goes a little bit overboard for a big idea in our first season. We're going back in time to the late 90s. It's a time when computers are coming into every home. And.com companies are popping up everywhere. Everybody wanted to stick.com on the end of something cups.com glass is not calm, you know shoes.com pet. Dot-com and as the frenzy grows and grows all of a sudden the.com economy falls off a cliff people lost their houses people got their cars we called they literally Bank their Futures on it. This season will explore what made the.com bubble and what could warn us when the next one comes along if we're not in one already go For Broke from epic and the VOX media podcast Network subscribe for free on Apple.

1 (25m 39s):
Will podcasts or your favorite podcast app?