0 (1s):
Last week, the Alabama Supreme Court said that frozen embryos were children. And boom, just like that, the United States had a new culture war.

1 (9s):
I warned that red states would come for IVF and now they have, when

2 (14s):
You talk about an embryo, you are talking about, to me that's a life.

3 (19s):
Obviously, an embryo transfer doesn't mean that it's a guarantee that you'll end up with a baby, but without that, there's no hope of us having a baby.

0 (28s):
The vast majority of Americans support fertility treatments. Heck, the vast majority of Americans think insurance should cover fertility treatments. But on today explained, we're gonna hear why some religious conservatives think this process is an abomination and why they think their views should be imposed on you, and what the political implications of this Alabama ruling might be in this here election year of ours.

5 (1m 0s):
Is AI really a threat to humanity? This week on the gray area, Tyler Austin Harper gives us his take on today's extinction panic.

6 (1m 12s):
I think we need to resist panic, and I think we need to resist pessimism, And. we need to be realistic and not pink glosson, but there are ways in which we can meet the challenges, and we've met similar seemingly unthinkable ones in the past.

5 (1m 26s):
That's this week on the gray area available wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (1m 42s):
We figured none of the Alabama judges who just decided frozen embryos or living children would talk to today explain. So we went looking for someone who shared their views. We found Andrew Walker.

7 (1m 53s):
I'm an associate professor of Christian Ethics and Public Theology at the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky. I'm also a fellow with the Ethics and Public Policy Center as well, which is a think tank in Washington dc.

0 (2m 8s):
So what was your reaction when you learned that the Alabama Supreme court granted embryos personhood last week?

7 (2m 17s):
I was stunned, but it was also a very welcomed reaction to the court case because in my view, the opinion had a degree of moral honesty to it and was carrying forth pro-life principles that many in the pro-life kind of advocacy community have been making for decades at this point. And one of those principles is that a human being is a human being at all stages of their development. And whether the child is inside the womb or the child is outside the womb, the child is still the child. The child is still a human being.

4 (2m 58s):
At the

8 (2m 58s):
Time that Roe v Wade was decided in 1973, they didn't have the medical evidence and information that we have today that clearly shows that life begins when a, the, the union between the, the sperm and the egg occurs.

7 (3m 14s):
If it's a child that is in its embryonic developmental stage and it's frozen in my philosophical and theological worldview, that's still a child.

0 (3m 28s):
I think there might be a lot of people in our audience, Andrew, who hear you referring to an embryo as a child. And, and they might be confused because literally we have two different words for these things, because to a lot of people, they are two different things. Can you explain to people how you believe an embryo to be a child?

7 (3m 47s):
The philosophy and the biology here are actually, I think, pretty clear. What we know is from the moment of conception, all of the necessary component parts that comprise that human being and will propel their development forward is present from conception. They're a genetically distinct human being, different from their mother in the womb. Now obviously, there is size differentiation between a zygote and an 18 month old toddler, but size differentiation is utterly irrelevant to the philosophical principle about what this substance is at the level of their nature and at the level of their nature.

7 (4m 32s):
They haven't changed, their personhood hasn't changed. All that's changed is the developmental state of that same person.

0 (4m 41s):
I have so many questions I wanna ask you. I don't know which one to ask first, but let's just go with, I think one that's probably on the minds of a lot of our listeners. Right now hearing you lay out the theological argument for why an embryo is a child. Why do you believe that that, well, first of all, no, I don't wanna assume. Do you believe that your theological argument should be applied to state laws, to federal laws, to people who do not share your theological values?

7 (5m 10s):
In a liberal democracy, everyone has to argue their position and everyone is entitled to argue their position. The positions that I can arrive at about the dignity of the unborn child or the dignity of the frozen child, those are moral principles that are true regardless of whether that they're arrived at theologically or philosophically. I'm seeking to be more expansive and protective and kind of the, the, the reach of the law to recognize and protect human beings. And I think one of the pushbacks I would have to individuals who want to treat the embryo as less than fully human or less deserving of rights, is for them to need to justify why they would want to restrict the reach of the law to narrow who is then protected by the law.

7 (6m 6s):
I think that's a very slippery slope.

0 (6m 8s):
You, you're saying the majority of Americans have to argue their position, but, but you're in the minority here. Why do you think most people in this country, from, you know, evangelical Christians to, you know, heretics and atheists who believe that this is a good thing, that letting people who cannot naturally conceive a child use this methodology is a good thing that creates life? Why, why do you think those people should have to argue their position?

7 (6m 37s):
There is good motive behind those individuals who are wanting to utilize IVF. And as a pro-life kind of intellectual myself, it's interesting to find myself in disagreement with some in the pro-life community on this question. We value children. We want couples who want children to have children. We then employ this by any means necessary approach to bring children about. And I think that's a very dangerous and slippery argument ethically, because it kind of relies on an ethical system where the ends justifies the means. And in my worldview, once you begin to introduce the idea of conception occurring outside the marital embodied love of a husband and wife, you've transgressed a very sacred boundary.

7 (7m 31s):
The other principle here is after IVF procedures have occurred, what then do you do with these excess embryos? I think those excess embryos are human beings. And so to keep our neighbors, to keep human beings permanently suspended in a state of cryo-preservation is a way of keeping people against their will. It's denying them their right to live. you know, we have these frozen embryos, they can be selectively reduced, which means destroyed. They can be used for medical research or multiple embryos can be implanted, and then the most promising ones are allowed to move forward, and then the others are discarded and destroyed.

0 (8m 16s):
Your neighbor is someone who wants this treatment. I, I wanna use a real world example here for a moment. Vice President Mike Pence, famously a serious Christian man. He has been very open about his religious beliefs throughout his political career. He and his wife are vehemently anti-abortion, but he has spoken publicly about their fertility struggles and how they used IVF to have children.

9 (8m 44s):
I fully support fertility treatments and I think they deserve the protection of the law. They gave us great comfort in those long and challenging years that we struggle with infertility in our marriage.

0 (8m 58s):
If he had come to you for counsel in that process, what would you have told him about the choice he was considering?

7 (9m 5s):
I would want to have a very respectful conversation with Vice President Pence and to ask him, is he aware of all of the facts that go into in vitro fertilization? And I think if I would have a further conversation knowing Vice President Pence's convictions, like I think I do, to ask him how he squares the existence of frozen embryos, the possibility of them being destroyed, how that reality aligns with his pro-life convictions. I do think that there is an inconsistency with pro-life Americans and pro-life Christians who are anti-abortion or pro-life, but then who are also pro IVF.

0 (9m 52s):
So just concretely, what would you say to, to Vice President Pence?

7 (9m 56s):
If he came to me, I would counsel him against pursuing IVF.

0 (9m 60s):
And what would you tell him and his wife, who he calls mother to do instead?

7 (10m 4s):
If it were me and I were, I was their a spiritual counsel to them or their pastor, I would counsel them towards looking towards adoption as a very viable option. I don't think that human beings or parents are entitled to children. I think children are a gift and they are a gift brought into the world best under the circumstances and conditions where it's the embodied love of a husband and wife that are conceiving them. And it's not technology, it's not science, it's not laboratories, it's not physicians, it's not surrogates, it's not lawyers. And all of those situations I just mentioned, once you, again, transgress that sacred boundary of the embodied love of a husband and wife, you begin to enter into all of these other ethical scenarios where other people get involved in bringing children into this world.

7 (10m 60s):
And then also bringing children into the world, into situations that I think are against the interest of children. I think children need a mom and a dad. And when we are designing an artificial reproductive technology regime where children can be placed in a home with either a mom or with a dad or on their own, or two moms and two dads, I think we're not looking out for the wellbeing of the child in the best possible way.

0 (11m 32s):
I got, I gotta cut you off there, Andrew. I asked you about Mike Pence and mother, a mother and a father, and you're telling me about same sex couples. Why, why would you think that Mike Pence and his wife should not be parents? And and what would you say to them when they say, when they said to you, we wanna be parents, what would you say to them? Not, not some same-sex couple who, whose love you don't believe in, but, but the, but these people who, who, who fit your mold of traditional Christian parents,

7 (12m 4s):
I would affirm their desire to wanna be parents is a good godly and biblical desire. But that good desire, i I doesn't allow us to trump other biblical realities and other moral realities.

0 (12m 20s):
This must have been a big moment for you to see this court in Alabama adopt a viewpoint that you've held for some time, it sounds like, but, but this reaction you're seeing even, you know, the leading Republican candidate for president is coming out against this decision. Was that disappointing to you? Because this could have been a moment where Christians sort of were awakened to this, this fringe viewpoint, but instead it looks like it's heading the other way.

7 (12m 48s):
It might seem fringe by sheer sake of a minority position, but I am pretty convinced on the moral philosophical side of this, and there are a lot of those individuals in the scholarly community who would adopt the same type of philosophical approach that I would. It is disappointing of course, that individuals who would wear the label pro-life would come out and condemn this decision and then come out kind of giving a blank check to IVF and the art artificial reproductive kind of technology regime that we have the United States. I think that in all of these situations where individuals are celebrating IVF, the next question then is yes, but what about the excess embryos?

0 (13m 44s):
Andrew Walker teaches Christian ethics at the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville. When we're back on today, explain, we're gonna talk about just how big a political loser this fight is for the right support for the program. Today comes from Noom who would like to remind you that your body is like no one else's. Your body is a snowflake, and they wanna help you with your snowflake according to Noom.

0 (14m 27s):
They build a plan specifically for you based around psychology and biology even helping you understand why you might crave that one specific food at the same time every day. I've never craved the same food at the same time every day, but maybe Vox is. Sarah Frank has

10 (14m 45s):
Using Noom. I liked how easy it was to get set up and I liked their super friendly features that allowed me to track

11 (14m 51s):
And input my workouts,

12 (14m 52s):
Goals,

11 (14m 53s):
Moods, and stress levels every day

0 (14m 55s):
You can stay focused on what's important to you with Noom psychology and biology based approach. Sign up for your trial today at Noom dot com. That's NOO m.com.

12 (15m 13s):
Hey, before we get back to the show, here's something fun today explained is going to South by Southwest in Austin this year I'm interviewing Charlemagne, the God host of the Breakfast Club. We're gonna talk about President Biden's problem with black voters. Polls, also vibes and EC data suggest that black men are growing more interested in Donald Trump this election season. What's going on? I'm hosting a special live show on March 10th on the official Vox Media podcast stage at South by Southwest, sponsored by Atlassian. The stage is also gonna host live episodes of Stay Tuned with Preet on with Kara Swisher. Where should we begin with? Aire Perel, Brene Brown will be there. What and other shows from the Vox Media Podcast Network.

12 (15m 53s):
If you can't make it to Austin, I completely understand. You can hear my interview in your podcast feed on Monday, March 11th. Two Radio Hosts, Charlamagne, and Noelle. For the press of one, it's gonna be great. Visit Vox media.com/live to learn more. That's Vox media.com/lot.

13 (16m 13s):
Today's explained,

14 (16m 15s):
Can you say you are listening to

13 (16m 19s):
Mommy?

0 (16m 20s):
Sarah Longwell is the publisher of the Bulwark. It's an outlet for conservative news and opinion written by people who don't like Donald Trump. She does focus groups with people from across the political spectrum every week. So we asked her how people feel about this Alabama Supreme court ruling that embryos are children.

11 (16m 38s):
Since the Alabama ruling came down. We haven't had sort of a big representative group to talk about it with yet, but I know from talking to voters about abortion and reproductive rights generally, that this is going to be deeply unpopular for Republicans.

15 (16m 52s):
This is not an acceptable way to treat someone or families that are going through something so hard. This isn't a political talking

11 (17m 1s):
Point. There is a reason that they are scrambling Right now to distance themselves as far as they can from this IVF ruling. And to say that they are in fact pro IVF.

16 (17m 13s):
We want husband and wives, they wanna be parents to give 'em that opportunity to be a parent.

17 (17m 18s):
You know, you have a lot of people out there in this country that they wouldn't have children if it wasn't for

18 (17m 22s):
That. Personally. I think it was a terrible ruling. I think the one thing folks should take from this is these are state issues. Now

11 (17m 28s):
A lot of Republicans are pro-choice. They just are. I ask all the time in our Trump voting focus groups, how many people consider themselves pro-choice. And actually one of the most common answers I get from Republicans is to say, well, you know, I'm pro-life, but I believe in a woman's right to choose. And the first time I heard that answer, I kind of chuckled a little bit at what I thought was a contradiction. But I've realized as I hear it over and over and over again, what they're really saying is, is that they themselves are pro-life. That they are culturally pro-life, but that they did not want to see Roe overturned.

11 (18m 9s):
They want this stuff to be between women and their doctors, especially women. Whenever you start bringing up these issues with women in focus groups left, right, and center, they immediately jump to personal stories that they have experienced or that their friends and family have experienced. And so this is just one of those things where it's such a deeply personal issue that the last thing people want is sort of Tommy Tuberville in the middle of that decision.

0 (18m 38s):
So you're telling us about voters' views on abortion, but, but let's talk about where they stand on IVF generally. Do you have some sense?

11 (18m 46s):
Yeah, look, IVF is not a thing that comes up that often, which is why I'm sort of contextualizing it broadly in reproductive rights. 'cause that is a thing we talk about all the time. But here's what I know about these voters. People talk about, you know, not being able to get pregnant and how hard that was for them. And some people do just sort of mention that they went through IVF or some people mention that they've had abortions. But this is just one of those things that, look, me and my wife ended up doing IVF, but I also know lots and lots of straight couples who used IVF. And so I think it's a wrapped up in the larger issue around whether or not Republicans are part of the mainstream on sort of a broad spectrum of reproductive rights, including birth control.

11 (19m 31s):
And one of the things that I think Democrats are gonna need to figure out how to go on offense on is that Right now, while Republicans are distancing themselves from this IVF position, you know, Trump comes out and tries to triangulate against this and say,

19 (19m 44s):
We wanna make it easier for mothers and fathers to have babies. Not harder. you know, that that includes, and you saw this, it was a big deal over the last few days. That includes supporting the availability of fertility treatments like IVF in every state in America.

11 (20m 3s):
And a lot of the Republican senators are as well. The fact is a whole bunch of them are co-sponsors of a bill that would do exactly this, that would make it nearly impossible to have in vitro fertilization. I think part of the problem for Republicans is if you brought up the idea that that Republicans wanted to ban contraception, for example, people in the focus groups would say, no they don't. That's ridiculous. They would never do that. But what this IVF decision does is it puts them one step closer to people being like, I don't know, maybe they would, they do seem to be trying to, you know, sort of clamp down on everything that is not sort of a life begins a conception, one man, one woman, sex is the only way you have babies,

0 (20m 47s):
You're based in Washington DC Sarah, what's the response on Capitol Hill? How are Republicans in the house and Senate either embracing or distancing themselves from this Alabama ruling?

11 (20m 60s):
Well, they're running from it as fast as they can. Even the people who, like I said, have co-sponsored bills that would essentially do this same thing. And I think what what's happening on Capitol Hill Right now is a bunch of Democrats saying, wait a minute. You're trying to say that you don't agree with this and yet you've co-sponsored a bill that would do precisely this. The other thing that's happening is Tammy Duckworth has essentially put a bill forward. She's a senator trying to codify much like they did for gay marriage, codified the right to in vitro fertilization. If

1 (21m 34s):
You're genuinely, actually honestly interested in protecting IVF, then you need to show it. By not blocking this bill today, a

20 (21m 42s):
Republican senator has blocked the passage of a bill to protect access to in vitro fertilization nationwide. Senator Sidney Hyde Smith of Mississippi objected to the measures approval yesterday. The

21 (21m 54s):
Bill before us today is a vast overreach that is full of poison pills that go way too far.

11 (22m 1s):
It looks like even as much as they're running from it rhetorically. And this is where Republicans just are sort of the dog that caught the car always on on these reproductive rights issues because they've used them as a messaging tool to a chunk of their base for a very long time. And now that it's very unpopular with the more moderate wing of their party, they, they sort of can't have it both ways and they're struggling to figure out how to do it.

0 (22m 28s):
But one thing that's curious about this political moment war in Sarah is that, you know, Republicans seem to lose on abortion in the 2022 midterms and various other state races since, and yet you still see extreme positions on abortion being taken throughout the country, including I think most recently by the leader of the party himself. Do we think the optics around this IVF ruling though limited to Alabama will actually cool heels in other states that might be considering something like this?

11 (23m 8s):
No, I mean, I think, look, you got, I mean, one thing to understand is there's the politics of it, which is terrible for Republicans, but then there's the fact that a lot of the people that Trump has brought into the party are very extreme, especially on issues like this. So even though Trump himself, I think has the instincts to sort of triangulate against people who are more extreme on the reproductive rights issues, the fact is the party is now completely in control of kind of the very maga, very hardcore right? And they're pushing, they're ready to push and get what they've been looking for.

11 (23m 49s):
I mean, there's a whole bunch of people in the Republican party who are using Trump as an opportunity to advance an agenda that is sincerely held. And so while I think Republicans for whom these issues are not paramount, they're trying to figure out a political solution to this, there's a lot of other people in the party who are saying, good, this is our time to, to go after birth control. This is our time to resurrect, you know, our notions of sexual morality. This is our opportunity to go back and re fight the war on gay marriage. Like it seems like we lost it, but maybe not, you know, now we've got all the groomer stuff and feels like, you know, they've, they've gone too far with some of the trans stuff so we can push back.

11 (24m 29s):
No, I think this is one of those things where Trump unleashed a lot of toxic forces on the party and there's a great faction on these issues that feels very emboldened to go pursue their agenda. And they don't care about the politics of it. They care about the policy agenda. They wanna achieve

0 (24m 58s):
Sarah Longwell, she runs the Bulwark. She also has one of those audio programs. It's called the Focus Group Podcast. Our show today was produced by Victoria Chamberlin, edited by Amina Aldi fact, checked by Laura Bullard, and mixed by David Herman. This is today explained.