2 (0s):
A global pandemic protests across the country a nationwide recession so far 2020 has felt like 10 or 15 years or wrapped up in one and I think we should talk it all out. I'm Sam Sanders. I host an NPR podcast called. It's been a minute each week on my show. I have conversations with all kinds of people to make sense of the news and the culture without making you feel overwhelmed join us every Tuesday and Friday. Listen And subscribe now, it's been a minute from NPR. First it feels good. Like when your first year the latest summer anthem. And first to share it with your friends who know you're always first to everything.

2 (42s):
Well, here's a new first for you Samsung Galaxy 5G. Yes. 5G Now on Galaxy helping you be one of the first on 5G so you can be first to even more like streaming with virtually no lag so you can be first to tell your friends what show to watch. Yes. Another first. They'll think Galaxy 5G now available on Galaxy S 25 G and a 71 G feels good to be first with Samsung 5G seeds very and require Optical networking connections factors include frequency bandwidth congestion. He carrier for availability to today. I remember the day sports died for seems circumstances the game tonight has been postponed.

2 (1m 27s):
You're all safe. This is that an NBA game in March a Utah Jazz player tested positive for the coronavirus through the Higher Sports World into chaos now. It's almost July and this week ESPN had a big Symposium with a bunch of League Commissioners about the return of sports. They called it the return of sports. It has now been more than three months that these seats have been empty that these buildings have been startlingly quiet since our World of Sports has been on hold but now it would appear that the time has come Come for the return of sports today on the show.

2 (2m 9s):
We're going to try and figure out how Sports can come back and we're going to do that with today explained Sports correspondent. No MM hassenfeld. No MM how our Sports coming back. You've been tracking this. Yeah. So all the major leagues in America are trying to come back Major League Baseball is having this long frustrating labor dispute, but it looks like basketball soccer and hockey are going to come back this summer and how they doing it. Do they have a solid plan sort of There's two basic ways that you can start playing sports during a pandemic Option 1 you do everything to manage the pandemic and then you think about sports who I like option one or option two, you can totally Miss manage the pandemic and then push ahead with sports.

2 (2m 51s):
Anyway, sounds like something we would do which is which who's doing which so option one is South Korea South Korea has got the baseball league. Yeah. Yeah the kbo the Korea baseball organization. They've been playing since early May and they've actually been Broadcast on ESPN here in the states what's option two option? 2 is America, I knew it. So I'm going to take you through both options in this episode and we're going to start with option one South Korea. Their plan started with testing if anybody has any symptoms that could get tested quite easily and then get the results back within 24 hours Gru is a sportswriter for yonhap news in Seoul in one of the ballparks in Seoul.

2 (3m 33s):
There's a literally a testing station right next to a baseball stadium and it's not just easy for baseball players South Korea did widespread testing contact tracing quarantines and it dramatically slowed the spread of the virus. Then in order to restart Sports the KB so put tough restrictions on its players. There were asked to download this particular app on their phones to report their temperatures every day. They are taking their temperatures constantly when they get up in the morning and then before they get on the bus to get to the stadium and then when they come in they also have their temperature checked and the kbo has made some on field changes to no high fives have bare hands. No spitting first base and third base coaches umpires have to keep their masks on the whole game, but maybe the biggest Change is in the stands or who isn't in the stands.

2 (4m 23s):
No fans allowed. This would be a dramatic change for any league but its enormous for the kbo The kvl Fan Experience is vastly different than MLB Fan Experience. no, literally from first pitch to final out cheering every team has a cheerleading squad, you know set up on the stage you the first base and third base side and at the center of these squads is the cheer Master everything has one plus four five handful of cheerleaders standing up for the whole in Banging like thunder sticks and then there are the personalized songs.

2 (5m 13s):
Every player has its all popular guys fans and memorize the wars. Guys pretty electric go into a cave your game, you know, that's a great excuse to get drunk outdoors. I would think even casual fans would come to Acadia games not necessary to watch baseball, but just have a couple of years and enjoy the sort of being in the crowd. I think you know people watching on ESPN right now in the US the really missing out on the Dynamics here in the kbo is different game when the brings out their full volume.

2 (5m 59s):
It's nothing like what you've seen in Major League Baseball. Take away those fans and the game start to sound pretty different. It's super weird, especially initially because the fans make the environment so energetic and so much fun Casey Kelly starting pitcher for the LG Twins of the kbo Casey played here in the US for the Padres braids and Giants and then he moved to the kbo last year when the fans are going on in there doing the chance. It makes it easier to focus but you know with no sound, you know, you kind of feel like it's Not a real game, you can hear everything, you know, you can hear the Dugout saying stuff.

2 (6m 40s):
You can hear the fielders saying stuff. I think the players have been trying to kind of tone down to trust talking just because it might get picked up on TV. I'm just thankful that I don't know the language enough to really hear if they're talking trash to me. I don't think I'll ever get used to it. It's very bizarre the great part about last year was, you know, if you're feeling tired or feeling, you know, like you didn't have your best stuff see the fans would give you energy and making you get some confidence in yourself, but the fans make the atmosphere what it is and not having them is really tough. The new kbo season has been underway for over a month now, but it hasn't been all smooth sailing.

2 (7m 20s):
So it's before the preseason began when teams are practicing. Some teams had players show some fever and had to drop everything. They had to stop get the player tested and everybody had to go home in quarantine until the results came back the league took these tests seriously, but so far, we haven't hit anybody test positive yet and the league shown it can adjust its plan on the Fly they'd hoped to have some fans back at games by now, but last month They had to make a change. There was a sudden spike in covid-19 cases and that has been linked to some nightclubs in a sort of nightlife District in Seoul is threatened to go out of control for a bit. So the kbl extended the ban on fans, but still the kbo model is drawing a lot of interest here in the US.

2 (8m 3s):
I do know for a fact that MLB is looking at kvo and how Kenya was able to begin its season when it did but I just think that you know Luke at two different situations with the Stu covid-19 So I don't know if these are rules are measures of restrictions if you will that are working in kbo. I don't know if they're going to necessarily work in the US ultimately they have got a lot more hurdles to overcome just to get the season started right now. So now that we have option one out of the way South Korea's way manage the pandemic then bring Sports back after the break option to the American way.

2 (9m 1s):
Support for the show today comes from all birds all bird. Send me a pair of shoes back when we were just starting to get into this coronavirus business and and I've been quarantining at home and I took them out of the box and put them on a shelf and said one day when when I start going out again, I'll wear these shoes and that day has not come yet. Now these three four months later, but you know, I still have hopes that it will and all birds. They they want to hook you up with a pair of shoes for what you started. Now to get to they got a new pair it's called the tree - or from all birds. It's the first performance running shoe made from premium. Natural materials may be in the world. The tree Asher is made from natural materials engineered to perform so you can you know run and go light on the earth while you're at it if you want to get a pair all birds tree - has it right now, you can go to all birds.com and feel confident that you can run hard and tread light on the planet because who are we getting the planet could use a break right now?

2 (10m 8s):
First it feels good. Like when you first get your hands on the latest sneaker drop. Yes. Well, here's a new first for you Samsung Galaxy 5G. Yes 5G now and Galaxy helping you be one of the first on 5G so you can be first to even more like being the first of your friends to post an 8K with the first 8K unboxing video of your new kick. Thinking man. First really looks good. Like really good Galaxy 5G now available on Galaxy as 25g feels good to be first with Samsung 5G speed ferry and require Optical networking connection factors include frequency bandwidth congestion see carrier for availability.

2 (10m 54s):
They explained we're talking about how to bring back sports during covid. We covered the Korean way AKA option one, which sounds We'll handle the pandemic then slowly bring Sports back. No MM what's option two? What's going on with the United States? Yeah, the United States obviously hasn't done a good job with depend on McCann. It's making it a lot more difficult to bring Sports back leagues that went on Hiatus during the middle of the season. They looked around and saw that the pandemic wasn't going anywhere. So they started considering some pretty Bonkers ideas. The NBA is considering you'll love this, uh, Disneyworld plan as a possible location. To Stage the completion of its season the NBA wanted to send the entire league to Disney World to finish the basketball season in a sort of covid free bubble and somehow this idea actually started catching on that made so much sense to me because you have the hotels you have all of the infrastructure already in place.

2 (11m 53s):
You have the ability to control your environment in the world that appears to be the greatest controlled environment the history of controlled Environments a controlled environment would be essential for the bubble plan because covid cases are still very much on the rise in the US including right outside Disney World much has been made of the fact that Orange County, Florida and Osceola County Florida are trending the wrong way right now, but with the bubble concept you get to open now. Anyway, Henry Abbott is a basketball reporter and the founder of true hoop. If you want to do business without requiring the surrounding Community to be the minimum risk, right, then you have to have a bubble owner signed. Off the players union signed off and now it's official the NBA is going to Disney World.

2 (12m 39s):
At the end of July 22 teams will be going to Disney World. They'll take up residence in ESPN's Wide World of Sports and they'll play Eight Games to finish the regular season and then the full playoffs is if there had been no coronavirus. That's the world. The NBA is trying to create inside this Disney bubble a magical land where there's no pandemic for the team's this starts at home. They'll be somewhat quarantined and then the team will fly together. Our enter the Disney Bubble at a specific time unique to that team and then I'll go to their rooms for 36 hours during which are getting tested and then kind of emergent begin practicing and moving around within the bubble.

2 (13m 20s):
There will be movie screenings. DJ sets video games ping pong pool and they'll play all of the games nearby, but without fans and for now players families have to stay home, but there will still be a ton of people there. There's going to be around a thousand people. It's not more in the bubble because it's not just players. As in this covid for Utopia players are a few hundred people and journalists broadcasters coaches support staff US drivers Etc. It's a true Magic Kingdom. Except the bubble itself isn't exactly secure. It doesn't sound like it'll be particularly rigid this bubble. It sounds like there will be food deliveries and plumbers and everything.

2 (14m 2s):
You need to support that many people and those people are going to be going in and out of the bubble. So they'll be Disney employees for instance in the kitchen or cleaning rooms and they likely will not get tested for the coronavirus every day, but they will have temperature checks. And even if they have a hundred point three temperature they can just go to work that leaves a lot of openings for the virus to get in. So the league To do a lot of testing not including those Disney employees going in and out. The NBA says everyone in the bubble is going to be tested regularly which could mean every day or it could mean less that's still a thousand or more people that need to be regularly tested for basketball. It's a tremendous number of tests on otherwise healthy people which is in keeping with no government recommendation right now.

2 (14m 42s):
If a player test positive, they'll be quarantined. There will be contact tracing but there are still a lot of difficult decisions to be made. Well the whole team be quarantined would The entire league be placed on pause. That's what the kbo can do in South Korea. But the NBA won't do the same according to report leaked Tuesday. Then be a says that the occurrence of a small or otherwise expected number of covid-19 cases will not require a decision to suspend or cancel the resumption of the 2019-20 Season, which means there could be some positive cases and I'll keep playing ultimately the plan still leaves a lot of questions unanswered. I was hoping when this whole thing started it would be It's for America to have like a microcosm of Korea or somewhere where this was a well-managed, but everyone's a little concerned.

2 (15m 30s):
So how concerned should we be? Well, I mean, I think when we're thinking about a bubble it sounds really great upfront but then the devils in the detail. Dr. Tara Kirk cell is a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health security. So basketballs endure and also the contact is just intense, like people are guarding each other. They're breathing on each other's faces. There's much more contact. Act and possibility for you to breathe in the respiratory droplets that might be infectious in fastball as compared to baseball which means the NBA needs to be prepared. I don't see any way that you're going to not see positive tests. The real question is how do we deal with them in a way that's responsible and allows play to go on the NBA has contact tracing protocols, but they may not be aggressive enough what happens with the team what happens with everyone they played against we need to test.

2 (16m 22s):
Immediately. We need to be really aggressive about that and the NBA can't just rely on testing. I think a lot of people expect that when you take a test it either shows you a True Result yes or no, and we know that there can be a lot of false positives and false negatives meaning that a player who follows all the rules could test negative and still easily transmit the virus on the court, you know, hopefully you would catch the next time you test the person but you'd still have a delay in getting on top of that potential outbreak. It's unlikely, but when you're talking about a thousand people getting regularly tested Small percentages Loom much larger, you know things are going to go wrong. We need to know how it's going to be dealt with I think that would help the players understand and be more confident as well to be fair.

2 (17m 2s):
The NBA is taking a lot of precautions here. It just comes down to how much risk we want to accept, you know, as we open things back up. We add a little more risk right opening of schools or allowing a little more business activity allowing surgeries, you know, all these things add to our risk of increased. And so I think we have to sort of prioritize what we think is most important many Americans want to prioritize Sports. We want to get a country open again. We want to have our sports leagues open you want to watch sports? It's important. We miss Sports and wanting Sports back. It's understandable. I think Sports really would provide a lot of comfort.

2 (17m 44s):
You know, the question is is it worth

1 (17m 45s):
it?

2 (17m 48s):
I don't feel like we have the data Henry a bit again. This feels to me like at some point. They just want to go but the greatest risk might actually not be for the players. It might be for everyone watching. Once you start doing things that are globally televised you kind of end up on one side of that debate. No matter what your views are more leagues will likely follow the NBA here and there's no telling whether they'll be nearly as cautious. You can't very well open the league and then say it doesn't I'm not really sure it's safe. I'm not sure we're ready to go back to work right like You already have an implied side on like should my brother-in-law go back to the office in Manhattan Sports can serve as a role model and watching sports viewers might feel like things are getting back to normal but sports are not a precursor of a normal society.

2 (18m 34s):
Right? Like they're a byproduct of it. You don't get to just sort of like Trot Sports out there as an experiment to see if you can create a normal society, right? You have to have normal society working and then you get to have

1 (18m 44s):
sports.

2 (18m 48s):
When Sports ground to a halt it was the moment many Americans realize the world wouldn't be normal for a long time. And to be honest. I really miss it. I miss watching basketball reading Recaps texting with my friends about last night's game, but the death toll from covid-19 continues to rise and America continues to open back up. So maybe we still need that reminder things

1 (19m 12s):
aren't normal.

2 (19m 24s):
Tricks playing sports correspondent. No MM hassenfeld know I'm wears a lot of hats the show. He's also working on our summer camp episodes for kids this summer and we have yet another question. We want to know what your kids want to know about covid-19. Now that we're months and months into this pandemic. We'd especially love to get some science based questions. So if the kids in your life or wondering how treatments or vaccines work ask away record a voice memo and email it to us today. Explain that box.com or your kids can call and leave a message at two zero two six eight eight five nine four four again. That's two zero two six eight eight five nine.

2 (20m 6s):
Four four. I'm Sean Rama's from the rest of the team is a film Shapiro mu JT Jillian Weinberger Bridget McCarthy, Amna al-saadi and Halima Shah. The mysterious brake master cylinder handles the music Cecilia lay handles the facts and lose. Kelly Nelson is vaux's editorial director of podcasts. A special thanks this week too soon and Hannah Choi and Spencer Len field. They help with the translations in today's episode transcript. You can find that at vox.com today

1 (20m 33s):
explained.