0 (0s):
Support for the shutter. And it comes from athletic brewing, the North American brewery of the year. They have award-winning, IPA's hazy, IPA's golden ales and stouts. Most of which have won awards against beers with alcohol in them in blind taste tests, which is to say, they've got non-alcoholic beer, they're crisp, clean, they've got hops. They've got all this stuff you like without the booze head over to athletic brewing.com or amazon.com and order some Today wherever you order. Use the code to ABC radio 20 for 20% off. Get some non-alcoholic beer today and use the code at ABC radio 20 to save

1 (38s):
<inaudible>.

0 (1m 5s):
So let me tell you a story about the very first vaccine in history and the unusual way that they had to distributed around the world. The story gets started in the late 17 hundreds with Edward Jenner. He was a British doctor who observed that people who came down with a disease called cow parks would not come down with The related and far deadlier disease of smallpox. And at the time, smallpox was probably the scariest disease on earth. It spread very, very quickly and people's bodies. Their skins would erupt in these awful fluid-filled pus filled sores. They got everywhere on your body, including your face and up to half of all, people died of it.

0 (1m 50s):
And even the survivors were left with nasty scars on their face. They're often stricken blind. So smallpox was a horrible, horrible disease. And generous vaccine was a huge breakthrough because it could prevent smallpox, but in some ways, Jenner discovering this vaccine, the cow pox vaccine was actually the easy part, the harder part prove to be getting it to people. And remember, this was the late 17 hundreds. They didn't have modern transportation. They did not have modern manufacturing to mass produce vaccines. And they did not have refrigeration to keep it cold and alive over long distances.

0 (2m 30s):
So basically the best way to spread it, Was from person to person to do it directly. A Dr. If you had cowpox would prick the little sore, they would take the fluid from that sore and they would scratch it in to the arm or the leg of a, another person. They would catch the cow pox. Then they would be immune to smallpox. So literally they would take someone's wound and like apply it to someone. Yeah, it wasn't exactly hygienic. And nowadays, obviously we would do these a little different, they didn't have a modern understanding of germs then. And also a, you know, there was the rest of the infections, but it was better than getting smallpox.

0 (3m 14s):
So I think people were willing to take that risk, but yeah, that's how they did it. And that worked okay within a town or whatever. It was a little laborious, but it worked okay. The problem started when you had to move from town to town, they had a method where they could take the lymph, the cowpox fluid, and they could smear it on a piece of silk, a silk strand, or a ball of lint or something. They could let it dry. Sometimes they sealed it in wax to help preserve it. Then they would walk to the next town over. And when they got there, they would mix the dried crusty fluid with water to reconstitute it, and then they could start giving it to people there.

0 (3m 56s):
So you could literally

2 (3m 58s):
Rub some cowpox soar on to some textiles, the material and transfer it from town to town. Yes,

0 (4m 6s):
Exactly. So getting from town to town, as long as they weren't very far apart where you can spread the vaccine that way, the real problem started when you had to take that crusty lamp and try to get over an ocean with it or something like that. There are stories of the lymph losing its potency, traveling even from London to Paris, which is only about 215 miles. So traveling across an ocean, which could take weeks, if not months didn't work, usually because the virus would lose its potency. And by the time they got there to the Americas or to India or any other place, they were trying to get the lymph. It would have lost its potency and it wouldn't work to make people immune anymore.

0 (4m 49s):
So when the virus The when the, the, the lymph starting to dry out, the virus would die, essentially. And then it wouldn't work by the time they got across the ocean.

2 (5m 2s):
So what did they do? Well, every

0 (5m 4s):
Once in awhile, it did make it across the ocean. They got one to Newfoundland and 1800. They got lucky basically. And it kind of started trickling down into North America from there, but most of the time it failed and the Americas really, really needed it because they were having a pocket elliptic outbreaks of smallpox. There, there were a lot of native people there who did not have any sort of immunity. And they were living in poverty, which made it really, really deadly. It would spread very quickly. And they had outbreaks were up to half of all. People would die. So even higher death rates than they were experiencing in Europe and Asia and Spain, especially had a really, really hard time getting it across the ocean.

0 (5m 48s):
They had huge colonies in central and South America, and it just was not making it there over and over. So the Spanish crown came up with a sort of radical plan and that was, they were going to use living people to take the cow pox vaccine across the ocean. And specifically they decided they were going to use orphan boys

1 (6m 11s):
To do this orphan boys,

0 (6m 15s):
Boys. Yeah. I'm not sure why they chose boys necessarily, but the reason they chose orphans, Was essentially the orphans couldn't really resist. They were living in institutions. They didn't have parents. They were kind of at the mercy of these more powerful people. And they kind of had to go along with what they were told to do. I should say the King King, Carlos, the fourth did give them some incentive to do this. He promised them a free education. When they got to the colonies, he promised they would be adopted into a family there. So they were getting something out of it. But obviously we would not do this Today that would not fly with ethical rules nowadays.

1 (7m 3s):
So they gave a bunch of orphans cowpox

0 (7m 6s):
Yeah. Basically what they did is they got 22 orphans. They put them on a ship and right before the ship set sail, they gave two of them count and rubbed it into their scan. Nine or 10 days later, they had little puss, jewels, pus filled, puss jewels, erupt on their skin. And at that point, a doctor on board would prick the postural. It would take the fluid and give it to the next to voice in the chain. And then they would wait nine or 10 days after that. And after that point, they would give it to the third pair of boys and the chain and so on. And the hope was that if they had good wins and a little bit of Lochte, the last pair of boys would have postures on their arm.

0 (7m 49s):
When they arrived in the Americas, they could hop off shore and start vaccinating people there.

1 (7m 57s):
The sound's both ingenious and deeply, deeply unethical.

0 (8m 2s):
Yeah, it is. It is clever when you think about it. I mean, if they had done it with, you know, actual cows or something like that, we'd probably be hailing them as, you know, these really brilliant innovators, but the fact that they did choose these orphan boys does make it look quite dubious, especially because they were pretty young. The oldest of these boys was only nine years old and the youngest of them was only three years old. So you can imagine, you know, tearing this little three-year-old out of the orphanage, the only place that's ever known, putting him on a ship and, you know, rolling around and the ocean, they were doing it over the winter.

0 (8m 42s):
So it was cold and choppy. They're the kid has no idea what's going on. It's getting pressure to get this little wound on its arms. It really was not a very pretty picture.

2 (8m 59s):
No, I actually can't imagine it like being an orphan. Wasn't bad enough. Now you're an orphan child on a ship crossing the Atlantic in the winter, given a disease by the Spanish.

1 (9m 11s):
Yeah. That's, that's pretty much sums it up. Yeah,

0 (9m 18s):
It did actually take the head of the orphanage along a woman named is a Bell's and dog Gomez. She was actually in charge of the orphan boys in charge of caring for them on the ship. And she was the only woman on board. And she actually proved kind of vital because, you know, if something happened to these boys, then the entire plan would fall apart, essentially. So she had kind of this vital role of caring for them, making sure they got there, especially because if these boys did get there and they looked awful or sickly or something like that, no-one in the Americas is going to take this vaccine from them. They would say, you know, I'm not going to get some fluid from the sickly looking kid.

0 (10m 0s):
So they brought her along basically to make sure that they were cared for and that they looked good when they got there, because they knew that appearances would matter. No one was going to take this strange new medical treatment. If the people who had it before were looking awful. So she'd kind of played this a very important role.

2 (10m 17s):
So we know who the head of the orphanage was. Do we have any idea who these orphan boys were? We really don't

0 (10m 25s):
There. You know, there's a monument. There was a movie made about them a couple of years ago. I've heard, but we really don't know much about them. Especially after they got to the Americas, they just sort of disappear. So, no, we don't know a whole lot about them beyond the fact that they seem to have been foundlings, which were babies that were abandoned by their parents.

2 (10m 48s):
So what happens when they get to the Americas?

0 (10m 50s):
Well, they barely hit there. They planned it out pretty well, but they got to Venezuela, modern, Venezuela around Caracas. And they had one single soar left on the arm of one boy. So they were very close to having that pop. And if that had happened, then the entire plan would of been for not, but they did make it there. And the head of the expedition hopped off the ship and immediately started vaccinating people on shore. So it spread pretty quickly from there. So it ultimately was successful in getting it to the Spanish colonies in the Americas.

2 (11m 28s):
Do we have any idea how many lives these orphan boys from Spain may have saved

0 (11m 33s):
The estimates vary a lot, but once they had a foothold and once they actually started vaccinating people in South America, it spread very, very quickly from there. The doctors in charge of the mission actually split into two. At that point, one group went up through Mexico and the other group went down into South. And by all accounts, they vaccinated at least hundreds of thousands of people. So we know that they did that and because they vaccinated all those people, it prevented outbreaks as well. So the estimates are, they probably saved millions and millions of lives through these orphan boys.

2 (12m 23s):
Sam keen writes about science history. His most recent book is called the bastard brigade. The true story of the Renegade scientists since spies who sabotage the Nazi atomic bomb more than the salmon, a minute I'm Sean Ramas from this is Today explained Support for the shutter date comes from noon.

2 (13m 12s):
Noon knows that you eat, but they don't know if you know how to eat. And we're not just talking about how to fold a slice of pizza. So the toppings don't fall off new months to get into the psychology of eating, to answer all your burning food questions, to make your body healthier. And it all starts with your brain, with the old nog and that's right. They say, it's not about what you just ate, but how you eat in general, News teaches you about eating your cravings and how to build new habits. So you can ditch your misconceptions and get smart about food. And you can find out more about noon right now.

2 (13m 52s):
There's a science to getting healthier. They're calling it nuMe. You can sign up for your trial. Today at noon.com/ Explained that's N O O m.com/ Explained nume.com/ Explained

1 (14m 16s):
<inaudible>.

2 (14m 29s):
So Sam, it is an incredible story about these orphan boys. And just remind me, this is like the first full vaccination effort in the history of mankind.

0 (14m 39s):
This is the first modern vaccine campaign and that it was really global because the head of the expedition actually took off from the Pacific coast of Mexico and went over to Spanish colonies in the Philippines and started vaccinating people there. And from there, he went up to China, vaccinated, tens, and tens of thousands, more people to really spread around the world. And it was a pretty amazing accomplishment and that they got all this done by around 1805. So within 10 years of generous, first vaccine, they had spread it around the world, which is just a staggering achievement. Given the technological limitations of the time.

2 (15m 21s):
You mentioned that they, they got the vaccine all the way over to Asia. Was it the same deal as giving it to the Americas? Did they do it using, you know, orphans that they sent out to the East?

0 (15m 30s):
They did use small boys again, but these boys that went over to the far East were not orphans. They came from families on the Pacific coast of Mexico and basically they paid them and hired their boys as vaccine mules, essentially to transport it across the Pacific ocean.

2 (15m 49s):
Okay. So not orphans, but still dodgy ethical practices. Yeah.

0 (15m 53s):
Yeah. Paying families to hire their boys would not fly nowadays, but that's what they did at the time.

2 (15m 59s):
Did the families get their boys back?

0 (16m 2s):
It seems that they did. Yeah. Again, they are kind of lost to history a at some point, but it seems that they did put them on a ship and send them back across.

2 (16m 9s):
Yeah. So we, we found your story, how orphans helped distribute the smallpox vaccine in the Atlantic where people can read it right now. We've been talking about vaccines for about a year. Now, what made you want to tell this story right now? The story really,

0 (16m 24s):
It seemed appropriate now because we're rolling out the vaccine for the coronavirus, obviously. And it just got to wondering, you know, how did they do that way back when in the 18 hundreds, when they did not have refrigeration, didn't have modern transport, things like that. And the fact that they used these orphan boys really startled me. I think it would startle anyone who heard that for the first time, because you think, you know, how can they do that? How did they get away with that? But that was the choice that they made at the time.

2 (16m 55s):
Of course, now we do have refrigeration. We do have the internet, we have airplanes, we have rocket ships, we have smartphones, we've got more technology in our bathrooms that it took to win world war II. And yet we're still struggling. Sam does that surprise you? It doesn't matter.

0 (17m 16s):
The surprise me in that vaccine rollout campaigns are always difficult. They're always fraught. And this one is specially we're trying to go understandably very, very fast. It does get frustrating and that we had months and months to prepare for it. And it still seems like a lot of health agencies were caught off guard with this, but they're always messy. They've always been messy. And especially in the country, as big as the United States, it's going to be difficult. And this one presents some unique challenges in that at least some of the vaccines for coronavirus need be kept. It very, very cold temperatures, which just adds a layer of complexity to it. So reading about these orphans and learning about them, I guess it made me appreciate how difficult it has always been to get vaccines out there.

0 (18m 5s):
As I said before, in some ways the vaccine is the easy part, it's getting it into people's arms into their bodies. That often proves the trickier part. It's funny though. I mean, my perception reporting on this and making episodes about vaccine development for the past nine months was that it felt like this impossible task to get the vaccine made this quickly, that we were breaking the sound barrier all over again with this vaccine yet. And I think that's another reason why it's so frustrating because a lot of us were focused, just get the vaccine, get to the vaccine, get to the vaccine. And when it finally came and got approval, I think we kind of mentally let our guards down and said, okay, we can see the end.

0 (18m 45s):
Now we're almost there. We sort of forgot the fact that it still had these other steps to go where we had to get it to people. So I think that's fueling a lot of this frustration is we thought we were close to being done and it turns out there is a lot more work to do. Do you see other countries doing a much better job than the United States that vaccination? It is a little discouraging to see that other countries have higher percentages. Israel, for instance, has vaccinated something like 20% of their population and the U S were hovering right around 3% right now, you know, a hundred years from now 200 years from now when you know your great, great, great grandchild is telling the story of the COVID-19 vaccine and its rollout.

0 (19m 30s):
What are you hope? The story is? I hope the story is that there was a bit of a 20, 20 hangover at the beginning of the year, and there were some stumbles, but that once we had iron things out, things went very, very quickly. And I do think we'll look back on this, especially the development of the vaccine as a really, really amazing story. I assume, you know, knock wood, everything goes well. The rollout part will be sort of ironed over in history and it'll just be sort of, it will be just another vaccine rollout, hiccup that we've experienced. And we'll probably be focused more on the development of the vaccine. It's just unfortunate that we have to live through this moment now in real time.

0 (20m 12s):
And can't jump to the historical perspective and at least know orphans were harmed. Not that we know of. No. Jesus. Do you think some orphans were harmed? Oh no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Our friends were harmed in the making of this vaccine.

3 (20m 34s):
Sam keen, he's a writer and also a podcaster. His podcast is called the disappearing spoon and features more stories like this one, we hear it. Today explained are off Monday for MLK day. It's a day of service to consider doing nice for someone who needs

1 (20m 48s):
It more <inaudible>

4 (21m 24s):
Hi, I'm Avery. Truffleman the host of the cut a new podcast from New York magazine and the Vox media podcast network. Every Wednesday, we work to explore important provocative ideas about the world around us so far. And we've discussed what it's like to move back into your parents' house and why that's actually an incredible and empowering thing to do. We've also talked about what it means to be a radical in society, expects you to be practical and pragmatic. We'd love for you to join us, subscribe to the cut in your favorite podcast app to get new episodes each week.