2 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from the brand new original series on peacock titled Brave New World. It might sound a lot like a book you maybe read a long time ago, but now you can watch Brave New World on peacock the new streaming service from NBC Universal. It's very hot here in DC this weekend. So, you know, if it's very hot where you are maybe streaming something on peacock sounds a lot better than going outside. And you know, I don't know trying to find a peacock. I'm sorry for saying that anyway sign up a peacock tv.com to stream Brave, New World Now it's takes planed. I'm Sean Rama's firm and on recent episodes of the show. I have promised you that we're going to do more stuff for kids this summer.

2 (41s):
I promised an entire summer camp and today's the day or piling into that bus and heading off to summer camp and we're going to do it three more times every other Friday after today and we have a summer camp counselor. He's not driving the bus, but he's like that guy in the front seat with the clipboard and like the safari hat. It's no I'm Some felt no I'm what you've been up to. Hello Sean. We have reached out to kids all over the world and we got a bunch of questions and I want to answer one in particular which is from a girl named Micah who just finished up fifth grade in Oakland, California. When will we have a vaccine strong question and you actually reported a piece on the show answering this question, but I'm sure there's a ton more to say since then.

2 (1m 23s):
Yeah. Oh, yeah, there's a lot more to go into and especially we wanted to go into it for kids and there's one great way to do that. That and it is we have to go back Kate back back where my name's Sean to the island. Oh the island of explained the island of explained. So let me just call up Micah here and see if you want to come with. Hello. Hey Micah. It's no. I'm from today explained. We got your question about a vaccine and I think we could find the answer on the island of explain you want to come. Yeah, let's do it.

1 (2m 0s):
Whoa. Whoa. Whoa, let's wait a minute. Blue

2 (2m 25s):
they three back here on the island of explained Michael. You ready to check this place out? Yeah. I'm really excited to be here. Nice shirt. By the way. Is it special for our signs Kryptonite? Well, it's a NASA shirt and I'm wearing it because I really like science and I like learning about NASA and rocket ships and I think they're really cool. Okay, so you're definitely prepped. Our signs Adventure today and to answer your question about vaccines and we're going to try to see how cells viruses and antibodies work inside the body. That sounds crazy. It's not that crazy. We just need to go to large. Let's large. Oh, yeah, sorry lar GE the laboratory for advanced research by getting enormous.

2 (3m 10s):
It's a lab that makes things really big so we can study them and I bet they'll make a coronavirus huge for us.

1 (3m 16s):
I think we should do it. I

2 (3m 17s):
think it sounds like a cool idea great. So let's head over this way past these rocks over here and OC right up that hill that big Square building that's large. It's very very large. That's for sure and getting larger the closer we get let's kind of basic it is it is pretty basic but trust me on the inside. It's really cool. Okay, so I guess we should just knock on the door. Can you not Doc. Yeah. Hello Maria Elena my favorite scientist. Hi.

1 (3m 54s):
Oh my God. No, I'm so nice to see you. What's going on?

2 (3m 58s):
Maria Elena? This is Micah. She just finished up fifth grade, and she's from Oakland, California. Oh, hi Micah. How are you doing today? I'm taking care. What about you? I am doing very good. Mike has this is Maria Elena boat Ozzy. She heads up a vaccine research lab in Houston, Maria. What are you doing on the island of explained? Oh, no, I'm you know, I'm actually a visiting fellow here at large. Oh perfect. We're actually here because we need something explained. Yeah, when will we have a vaccine? Okay, so to understand why it's take so long to make a vaccine you have to really understand how the virus works in the body.

2 (4m 38s):
Okay. And today we're going to answer these three questions how a coronavirus attacks your body how a body fights back and how actually we scientists can give you a vaccine to help your body fight back. Where should we start? Okay. So let's start here first. Your body is made of loss of cells that are basically little factories that make all sorts of things that the body needs and they're usually all locked up tight. So nothing messes them up, right? And I guess the virus is trying to break into our body's cells. To to get into our little factories.

2 (5m 19s):
Absolutely Halas the virus get into the cell. Why don't we go ahead and big if I the virus for you, okay. Oh, that's a huge virus that basic orange spikes and a purple rim, and it looks like a son so those spikes are like a key that unlocks the cells in your body in comes the virus. It's like a little soldier on a secret mission. Hmm. It's just by itself. But once the virus can pick the locks on the cell it can use all the Machinery inside. To make copies of the virus itself.

2 (6m 2s):
This is those copies unlock other cells and make more

1 (6m 10s):
coffee then

2 (6m 12s):
eventually cells starts getting destroyed and that's why you start to get sick because as the copies of the virus are made the cells burst. How do we stop the virus? Well, your body is not just going to let the virus has come in and do whatever they want. Right, you know, it's going to try to fight back and to do that. It starts by making lots and lots and lots of little weapons

1 (6m 44s):
and

2 (6m 45s):
this little weapons are called antibodies. So this is the second thing. I want to show you. Why don't we actually big if I So these little antibodies that look like little Vis or little wise stick onto the coronavirus and they can cover up the Spike. Oh, yeah, I can see it happening now right over there. There's the big spiky coronavirus blob and antibodies are swimming over. Why do you think they're trying to cover up the spikes? So then I won't get in our cells and destroy ourselves. Yeah, so the antibodies They want to do is cover up the spikes so they can't work like a key.

2 (7m 29s):
The spikes can fit in the doors of the cells. So the coronavirus is cannot get in but it doesn't seem to be working. The antibodies are kind of slipping off the spikes what's going on it seems as if the antibodies aren't the right shape so they can't cover the spikes. These antibodies are a bust I guess. Maria Elena, do we need different ones? Yes, we actually have to get antibodies that are the right shape because the problem is for every different virus that comes in your body has to make a new Army of antibodies and that's really hard.

2 (8m 11s):
Your body needs a lot of time to figure out how to make them just right and I guess if you get sick, you definitely don't want to have to wait a long time to make antibodies. What if our bodies could practice making them before we get sick? So it's ready to defend against the coronavirus. Absolutely. This is the third thing that I want to show you is what I do all day. I helped make something called a vaccine which is basically a fake practice virus. It looks just like the virus but it can't hurt you. So that the body gets a chance to practice fitting something on the spikes.

2 (8m 51s):
And so Here, let me actually show you how it's done. Let's stake. If I now let's look just you know, the new vaccine. It looks just like the virus. Yeah, exactly. It's just got the same spikes. It sort of looks like a coronavirus but because it's fake it actually won't be able to break into yourself and hurt you. So your body gets some time to practice and makes antibodies that would fit perfectly on the spike that way when the real coronavirus shows up the body can immediately make the right kind of antibody super quickly and then the real virus cannot get inside yourself.

2 (9m 44s):
Okay, Micha. We just learned a whole bunch of stuff about antibodies. You think you can help me recap to make sure we got it all yeah, the antibodies are covering up the strike. So I won't be able to use it spikes again to ourselves but we have to have the right shape and how do scientists like Maria Elena help the body practice making the right kind of antibodies by making a fake virus and that fake virus is called a vaccine exactly. But Maria Elena, it can't be easy to make something that looks just like the coronavirus what happens if things don't fit just right. Well, if something doesn't exactly fit we have to go back to the drawing board and try it again and that's why it takes so long to make vaccines.

1 (10m 32s):
Let's it Maria Elena. Are you starting a science without me? Oh,

2 (10m 37s):
hey, it's the experiment. I'm

1 (10m 38s):
so sorry expiry moth. I just got excited about this and I forgot about you

2 (10m 45s):
experiment with we were just talking about vaccines and the coronavirus. Do you know anything about experimenting with vaccines?

1 (10m 52s):
I know so much about experiments. I mean, I am the bear must I was actually coming here to talk to Maria Elena about Nick Barron. I'm planning to do but she looks very busy. So maybe the two of you would want to come

2 (11m 8s):
help. Okay? Yeah Okay,

1 (11m 11s):
then if you could come this way, I'm going to take you to my home. It's called the knock on wood.

2 (11m 18s):
Okay, why don't you walk and fly ahead and I'll meet you there after the

1 (11m 21s):
break.

2 (11m 31s):
This is Advertiser content

1 (11m 33s):
when I say Utopia what comes to mind? Birds chirping Lush natural beauty dialed up and vibrant Technicolor. Is it within reach your world explain?

2 (11m 50s):
You are an essential part of a perfect social body everybody in that place. Everybody happy now while the peacock original series Brave New World

1 (12m 2s):
takes place in a scientific futuristic Utopia. The concept is

2 (12m 5s):
nothing new Sir, Thomas. More first introduced the theory 500 years ago, but we keep looking for that Community identity stability of Aldous huxley's Utopia and not finding it Americans are the unhappiest they've been in decades and we're increasingly lonely. Whereas in a Utopia One belongs to everyone else in 1943 the psychologist Abraham Maslow developed a theory of Utopia one that allows total self-determination in basic terms Maslow's Theory says, Says that in a Utopia we decide for ourselves what we need and how we're going to get it in. Huxley's Utopia citizens always get what they want and don't want what they can't get sounds pretty good right then.

1 (12m 50s):
Why can't we make it happen

2 (12m 53s):
for a utopian society to work? We might need to disband some of the things we hold dearest marriage government privacy individualism even family. See for yourself. If a utopian world is as perfect as it seems watch Brave New World now streaming only on peacock. Okay, we're back on the island of explained and Micah you and I are here in the knock on woods with the

1 (13m 24s):
experiment. What do you make of it? What do you think? Well, it's really colorful. I see a lot of wood and some people think that the knock on wood is all about Superstition, but these knock on wood they're completely the opposite. So these are special treat. That respond to each other. Can't knock on this tree over here for a second. Okay? That'd be nice and then that causes the text so it's not and that causes the tree next to that tuna and it goes on and on and on and on and on.

2 (14m 3s):
Oh, so if you do something over here, it has an effect that spreads out across the

1 (14m 8s):
woods freeze nicely. And that is what the knock on wood are all about. Leave her to figure out how one thing causes another thing. now I brought you here because you want to know about developing a vaccine and to do that scientists like Maria Elena run experiment to figure out how one thing is having an effect on another thing

2 (14m 31s):
like if a vaccine is working to attack a

1 (14m 33s):
virus her I thought me Could but one that doesn't about people get involved. Some bushes my prize very much bushes full of amazing Berryman berries. Whoo.

2 (14m 50s):
Wow, you have hundreds of bushes. And those berries are wild it kind of look like peppermints but apples at the same time for some reason

1 (14m 59s):
my God, I love these vary so much. I'm basically I'm obsessed with them, but I'm also really worried because look at that. Look at these leaves. Oh my God, it looks like someone Eat some little leaves

2 (15m 15s):
and I don't know what those red dots are but oh my gosh,

1 (15m 19s):
those are red berry beetles and they keep coming through and munching up all my plants. Look at this poor Leaf. It's got more holes than swiss cheese. No, but there's hope the other day this traveling salesman. Let me a fancy voice message. Wait, let me find out put it for you.

2 (15m 50s):
And Simon your parents will be just fine

1 (15m 55s):
the willing to this Nelson. All we need to do is use the slime on my Berryman bushes for 10 seconds. And the Beatles should just go away. It sounds like a potential solution. Yeah. Yeah, but are you two excited? Yeah. Knock on wood. We like to experiment and see if a solution actually works before we go totally bananas with it. I was thinking that maybe you could help me design an experiment like a Berryman experiment to see if the Slime actually works or not. Yeah. Yeah. So what should we do to test and see if the Slime will keep the beetle the way from My Bushes maybe we can take this live and put it on a leaf that it is a superb idea.

1 (16m 45s):
But this is where your to get kind of careful when you're designing Behrman. It's actually part of the reason they take so long to get to make sure that it's the Slime that makes the Beetles go away and not know like a change in the weather or maybe the bugs gets full and decide to go home. So

2 (17m 11s):
Maybe we can get. Bushes and put slime on one of them and then put no slime on the other. Why would you do that? We would see what's the effect and if it's really the Slime or if it's just something

1 (17m 27s):
else to make a good experiment. We need to make sure the only difference between our bushes is the Slime. So we need to watch a bush that doesn't get the Slime just as carefully in science. We call this a control It's basically the you can say what would have happened if I hadn't done this experiment at all. And then compare now for almost ready Micah. Is there anything else we should test here? I think you should test

2 (17m 60s):
more than one plan to some through all your plans for them. They won't all just die or something. You have hundreds of plants, right? Yeah. So if you put them on all of your plans then all of them may or may not die.

1 (18m 14s):
But

2 (18m 15s):
if you just put it on 10 put slime on some don't put slime on some we would see the

1 (18m 22s):
reaction amazing stuff step. We are going to put slime intent plant to see if it makes the Beetles go away, but we are not going to put lime on the rest of my plan so you can see what happens if we do nothing at all. All right. Sure. Alright, okay. Alright and I'll see you. Okay, Mike. Are you ready to help me put this slime on some bushes? Yeah. It feels really slimy. It's also really sick at the same time like maple syrup.

1 (19m 5s):
So disgusting, so he had me countdown because the snails that I was gonna work in 10 seconds, so we'll see. Okay, nine eight

2 (19m 22s):
seven six five four Three two one.

1 (19m 31s):
Okay. This is the Moment of Truth. Like what look at the plants that we did put slime on. Wow, it looks beautiful doesn't have any bugs on it or holes. This is really promising. But let's make sure that it was the Slime that made the bugs go away. So let's look at our control group over here. Remember these are the bushes. The didn't get the Slime it looks the same disgusting ugly bugs on it. They look really really hungry. So if the bugs are still coming to the leaves up climb, but they're gone from the leaves that do have slime on them.

1 (20m 17s):
That means this. Well, I'm in the solution. Yeah, we can't do you and I am so happy. Everything is Solved I am going to put slime on everything. I want to put slime on my fax. I'm gonna put slime on my

2 (20m 34s):
face. Wait experiment. Hold on. Look at the bushes

1 (20m 37s):
now. Sorry. What was that non? Oh my gosh what happened?

2 (20m 41s):
It looks like the Slime got rid of the bugs, but then it made the leaves all gross. They're yellow. Oh my God, this is so disgusting.

1 (20m 49s):
I'm honestly very grateful to you Micah. What if I put this on all of my plant? Oh, they would have been. Well, I'm sad to be losing 10 bushes. Definitely but this is another important lesson when you're testing cures, sometimes they have side effects, but take a little while to show up and you always need to be sure that your experiments are safe. Uh-huh. I got Maria Elena could actually tell you a lot more about all this. This is right about the time that we generally have an acronym. Stroll, I wonder if hello experiment with it's time for our little science draw.

1 (21m 34s):
Where are you? Not just a scientist those hoping he we weren't just doing this experiment because my bushes had bugs and then a snail give me some one that was supposed to drive them away in 10 seconds. And it also reminded me of your work with vaccines, except you're trying to get viruses away and But

2 (21m 58s):
well, yes, but you know, it's a lot harder than

1 (22m 1s):
that. First we need to find a big group of people

2 (22m 8s):
to test on which means that we have to find lots of people willing to be in an experiment

1 (22m 14s):
then we need to make sure that the vaccine actually works

2 (22m 18s):
and that takes much much longer than 10 seconds to see right and just like you did. We also use a control we give some of them a shot with the fake virus in it. We give other people a shot without the fake virus. And then we watch them to compare to see what happens. But then third because we're going to be giving this vaccine to people and healthy people. We have to make extra sure that they won't develop any bad side effects over time. So we need to wait for a long very long time. How long do you think we have to wait?

2 (22m 58s):
Well, we probably have to wait for at least one more year before we know for sure that we have a vaccine. Seen that can work fast and that it actually is safe for everybody. So Mica if your friends wanted to understand why it takes so long to get a vaccine. What would you tell them because they have to do a lot of things before getting a vaccine like to have to find the right antibodies. They have to make a fake virus and then they might make the vaccine wrong so they might have to do it again because they don't want anyone getting

1 (23m 33s):
sick that makes a lot of sense to me. I'm like, I'm really sorry that I can't give you a vaccine but I would like to give you some Berryman to take with you back home. I hear they're good with eggs. So maybe you can make experiments. Thank you.

2 (23m 50s):
All right, Micah. It's about time to leave but I'll be back in two weeks with some more island of explained adventures. And don't worry. It won't all be coronavirus questions. We've got loads of fun stuff in the works. Okay, bye-bye. Alright Island. I'll see you in two. Two weeks today explain summer camp counselor. No MM hassenfeld. No, I'm produced this episode with bird Pinkerton aka the experiments they had help from Jillian Weinberger a fumes Shapiro theme son Harvey and vaux's editorial director of podcasts Liz Kelly Nelson mil de gracias to dr.

2 (24m 33s):
Maria Elena boat Ozzy for making time for Trip to the island. You can spend more time on the island of explained with the set of activities we put together for you to do with your with your grown-ups. And with your kids you go to box.com today explained learning for an episode discussion guide and instructions for a germy experiment that will teach you more about how scientists develop vaccines warning. It does involve some gross stuff. Again, the site is vox.com today explains learning. We had a lot of help with that. That stuff thanks to Amanda Northrop Rachel giannini Salim Hugh Penny Lauren cats, Marika bald Amberg. Brandon Santos.

2 (25m 13s):
Oh Dwight and Rachel Israel. We've got three more today explain summer camp episodes coming your way. Keep an ear out for those every other Friday this summer starting with this one. The rest of the today explain team is Bridget McCarthy Halima Shamu, JT and Amanda. Sorry Cecilia, lhx the facts brake master cylinder brings the Bops. The show is a part of the VOX media podcast Network. All right, the show's over we're heading into the weekend. It's time for confessions. I have never read Brave New World by Aldous Huxley, but I have it and I've wanted to for quite some time.

2 (25m 55s):
It wasn't required reading where I grew up in my defense, but now's the time because there's a new show based on Brave New World on peacock the free streaming service from NBC Universal. So if you're way ahead of me and you've already read the book check out the show, maybe even this weekend Brave New World now streaming on a BC Universal peacock sign up at peacock tv.com to stream it now.