2 (0s):
Support for the Chevrolet comes from the TMI project which gives under represented communities a platform to share all those too much information stories that are often overlooked by the media in 2017. TMI project responded to the outcry for racial Justice with a powerful platform called black stories matter and now there's a whole podcast TMI project podcast black stories matter it airs on Wednesday. Subscribe wherever you listen. Support for this episode comes from one degree and dr. Death season 2 when someone you love is diagnosed with cancer, you obviously want to find the best treatment possible in Michigan in 2013. Many cancer patients thought doctor Farid fata could be the one to help them beat their Illness, but that's not how it went.

2 (48s):
Dr. Death season 2 tells the true story of what happened when dr. Fatah poisoned his patients with drugs. They didn't need to treat diseases. They didn't have Can find that wherever you find your podcasts. It's takes planed. I'm Sean Rama's for him and we are just one week away from election day in the United States at long last. Of course, there's a pandemic people are already voting the US Postal Service actually recommends people send in their ballots by today in order to make sure their votes get counted and that's because about 30 states require that ballots be received by election day.

2 (1m 41s):
Just last night the Supreme Court ruled that one of them a swing state. No less didn't have to extend that deadline which almost guarantees at least some ballots in that state won't get counted Ian milhiser you cover the Supreme Court for Vox. What is up with the Supreme Court voting and Wisconsin? Okay. So the broader

3 (2m 5s):
problem that a lot of states are dealing with is just that election offices or overwhelmed, you know, more people are voting by mail than ever before because they don't want to go out during a pandemic sending out absentee ballots and collecting them takes time. You have some areas where the post offices and operating as fast as it should be and so there's a delay in the mail going out as so there's a very real danger that voters are going to be disenfranchised through no fault of their own are you know a voter might mail their ballot in a week in advance and because of a post office delay the ballot doesn't arrive. By election day and the vote is not counted

2 (2m 44s):
right? So, how does this how does this apply to Wisconsin what's going on there specifically so when Wisconsin a

3 (2m 50s):
lower federal court said that some of these late arriving ballot should be counted, you know, if a ballot is mailed before election day and it arrives. I believe within six days of election day. It will be counted because we don't want an arbitrary situation where there's two voters both the mail it before election day. But because of some snafu in the post office one of them gets to vote in the other one doesn't that's what the lower court was trying to avoid. Okay, the Supreme Court basically looked at this whole problem where voters might be disenfranchised through no fault of their own and said this is the deadline lower federal courts aren't allowed to step in and fix the problem tough.

2 (3m 32s):
Right and the deadline is election day instead of what was previously looking like what so long as your ballot was postmarked by Election day they'd counted up to six days after and this was a 5-3 ruling from the Supreme Court split along predictable conservative-liberal lines. What was the winning argument? There

3 (3m 54s):
were multiple opinions. There was no one opinion for the court Chief Justice Roberts wrote an opinion where he said if a state supreme court wants to accommodate the pandemic and make sure that voters have their ballots cast. That's fine but federal courts. Can't do this. Then there were two other concurring opinions from Gorsuch and Cavanaugh that laid out a bunch of different reasons Gorsuch. His opinion was very rigid. It said the state legislature gets to decide what the rules are State Governors can't decide it other state officials can't decide. It. Federal judges can't decide it state judges can't decide it. The primary responsibility is with the state legislature Cavanaugh gave a bunch of reasons.

3 (4m 39s):
He gave us some what My older version of Gorsuch is only the state legislature approach. And then he also pointed to a few other factors. He believes that cases that come up to the Supreme Court close to an election. The federal court should not intervene. But the punch line here, is that a majority of the Supreme Court. It seems once these decisions to be made by state legislatures and not by courts. And in many cases you are dealing with states that have gerrymandered legislators where the legislature is controlled by the Republican

2 (5m 15s):
Party. Hmm. What did the three dissenting justices say, so the

3 (5m 22s):
three dissenting justices basically said that look the right to vote is more important than this, you know, and beyond that, you know, Justice Kagan wrote the dissent she pointed to the fact that the pandemic is making things really hard, you know, that state election officers are overwhelmed that voters might be disenfranchised through no fault. Of their own that they might not be able to get their ballot soon enough and all of these are reasons why she agreed with the lower court that voters shouldn't be disenfranchised for arbitrary reasons such as a Slowdown in the mail or the fact that their ballot doesn't arrive until too late

2 (5m 59s):
did Cavanaugh or any of the conservative justices acknowledge the pandemic

3 (6m 4s):
Kavanaugh at least acknowledged and I mean and Gorsuch at least used the word covid in his opinion. But their position is just that there should be an extraordinary amount of deference to State officials generally and to state legislatures in particular and in the state of Wisconsin again, you have a gerrymandered legislature that's controlled by the Republicans. And so that means that there will be an extraordinary amount of deference to what the Republican party wants the rules to be in the state of Wisconsin. Can we just

2 (6m 38s):
talk for a second here about The real world implications of this decision. I mean, how many votes did Donald Trump win Wisconsin by in 2016? So Trump

3 (6m 51s):
won by a very narrow margin was about twenty or twenty-five thousand votes

2 (6m 55s):
right tiny margin

3 (6m 57s):
and to understand why that number is significant what the Supreme Court just held the Supreme Court held that ballots that are mailed before election day, but that arrived during a window. No, after election day will not be counted in April Wisconsin held an election where ballast that arrived in that window were counted and about seventy nine thousand ballots arrived during that window that the Supreme Court has now cut off, right? So again Trump won by about 20 to 25 thousand votes in 2016. We're now talking about disenfranchising if this election plays out the Anyway that the April election did about 80,000 people.

3 (7m 44s):
So there's a very real risk. If especially if the election is as close as it was in 2016 that the Supreme Court's decision will wind up changing the result of this election

2 (7m 57s):
because of course Wisconsin is a swing state. So huge

3 (8m 2s):
implications. I mean potentially and not just because you know, Wisconsin could be the pivotal stayed but there's also So similar lawsuits in North Carolina and in Pennsylvania, which are also pivotal States dealing with whether or not ballots can be counted if they are mailed before the election but arrived in a window after the election and so if 80,000 vowels are tossed out in Wisconsin and other 80,000 or tossed down in Pennsylvania, another 80,000 or tossed out of North Carolina. You're potentially the entire the result of the entire presidential election could be flipped this

2 (8m 39s):
way. More with Ian after a quick break. Support for the show today comes from hero hero is your medicine cabinet reinvented. They make it simple and easy to make sure you or a loved one are getting the right meds at the right time. Every time the hero pill dispenser sorts all your daily medications for you and delivers them with a push of a button.

2 (9m 21s):
So here's the deal hero is giving today explained listeners a special offer. Head over to Hero health.com / explained and use the offer code explained to get 50% off their Initiation fee plus a 30-day risk free trial. You will get your morning's afternoons and evenings back to do probably not that much stopped counting pills and let the machine do the work with hero. That's $50 off Bob plus a 30 day free trial and hero health Cam / explained using the offer code explained at checkup.

2 (10m 6s):
Support for the show today comes from the greatest website of all time calm.com. It's been a tough year and calm has the coping mechanisms that you might need to feel a little bit better. They've got an enormous library of soothing stuff designed to reduce stress and help you get better sleep or talking Lo-Fi music playlist. Guided meditations and hundreds of soothing sleep stories to whisk you off into your sweetest of dreams millions of employees at over 600 companies, like Lincoln and Universal Studios use cam for business to improve their mental health and jumpstart their productivity.

2 (10m 56s):
And right now cam is offering a free well-being guide and a free demo when you go to com.com explained and if Cam for businesses, right? For your team. They're also offering a free month off your first year when you go to com.com explain that's a month free of unlimited access when you go to calm.com explained get started today at calm.com / explained. In we just spoke about Wisconsin, but didn't the Supreme Court just issue an opposite ruling for Pennsylvania last week.

2 (11m 39s):
We covered it on the show a week ago today the Supreme Court didn't overturn a State Court ruling that allowed for an extended deadline on voting what was different here

3 (11m 51s):
the Pennsylvania decision involves a very similar issue to the Wisconsin case both of them involve whether or not ballots that arrive late will be counted.

2 (12m 0s):
But what

3 (12m 2s):
Robert said and he you know, he wrote an opinion in Wisconsin case saying this is he said the difference between the two cases is that we can overrule federal courts, but we can't overrule state courts on questions of state law. And so Roberts voted a different way in each case because one came from federal court one came from State Court Roberts opinion. However isn't likely to matter much longer and the reason why is because the Pennsylvania case as for two for this court is down a Justice or was down a Justice

2 (12m 36s):
literally as the

3 (12m 38s):
Supreme Court was handing down the Wisconsin decision. The Senate confirmed a me koni Barrett to be the ninth Justice and you know, Amy coneybear hasn't told us how she's likely to vote in this case, but I think it's really likely that Barrett is going to vote with the conservatives in the Pennsylvania case and Roberts is views aren't going to matter very much

2 (12m 58s):
anymore. So if there's an eventual Five-four decision on Pennsylvania with a me koni Barrett on the bench. I mean how big of a deal is that going to be? So if the

3 (13m 8s):
court does what the most conservative justices want to do here? It would be a huge deal. I mean, it's really hard for me to exaggerate how big of a deal it would be. I want to read a line from Gorsuch has opinion in the Wisconsin case. He said that the constitution provides that state legislatures not federal judge has not not state judges not State Governors and not other state officials bear primary responsibility for setting election rules. So he suggesting that if there's a state constitutional provision protecting voting rights and the state supreme court strikes down a law that was passed by the state legislature because it violates the State Constitution that state supreme court decision might be invalid.

3 (13m 54s):
I mean, this is such a sea change in how the law Works how lawyers think Outlaw, it's so difficult for me to predict the implications. What I do know, what is going to happen is that Republican lawyers are

2 (14m 8s):
going to go racing through

3 (14m 10s):
state election codes looking for old balls that were vetoed by a state Governor looking for State Supreme Court decisions. They don't like and saying that it should all be thrown out. I mean if I were a lawyer advising a client on what's going to happen in this election under these new rules, I would even know what to begin. It's such an astounding being shift in our Law

2 (14m 32s):
And just so I'm sure I understand the view from the more conservative justices is that the Supreme Court has authority over state courts on Election law. So the

3 (14m 44s):
Gorsuch Cavanaugh view as I understand it is that if the Supreme Court of the United States feels that a state supreme court read and election law in a way that the Supreme Court of the United States disagrees with Then it will overrule that decision which is not something that this wimp or the United States has historically had the power to do.

2 (15m 8s):
How closely does this Hue to Bush V Gore in 2000 where the Supreme Court cast the deciding vote in the election. So in

3 (15m 17s):
Bush V Gore there was a concurring opinion written by joined by Three Justice Chief Justice rehnquist and Justice Thomas and Scalia that made this argument that the state legislature has This weird Primacy and at the time when that opinion came down, I think most lawyers thought it was wacky, but one lawyer who worked on the bush before case for Bush was Brett Kavanaugh and Brett Kavanaugh quoted extensively from wank rehnquist Bush V Gore opinion in his opinion in the Wisconsin case. So this view that until recently I would have considered to be off the table and until recently was considered pretty wacky by most lawyers.

3 (15m 60s):
Now look, Very likely to be taken seriously by the Supreme Court.

2 (16m 4s):
So give me a scenario for this election. Let's say after election day. What could this look? Like? If you know Kavanaugh's Bush V Gore ideology sort of melds with this idea that the Supreme Court has power directly over state courts in an election year.

3 (16m 24s):
So here's a very realistic example. I mean, this is very similar to what happened in this Wisconsin case. Let's say that the Pennsylvania election is closed is there's maybe ten thousand ballots separating on Biden and Trump but Biden's up by ten thousand ballots. And so let's say that then Trump files a lawsuit saying wait a second. We found this pile of say fifty thousand ballots that we want tossed out. We don't think they should be counted. They go to State Court the Pennsylvania Supreme Court says, no, we're not tossing this out. That's not what the law provides the state legislature files a brief. That case a know we think those ballots should be tossed out

2 (17m 4s):
under the normal

3 (17m 5s):
process. There's a dispute under state law. The state supreme court has the final word, but Gorsuch and Kavanaugh are saying that the state legislature should enjoy this extraordinary amount of deference. And in many of these states, you have gerrymandered legislators where the Republican party is basically locked into control of the legislature. And so the republican-controlled legislature could Ali after the fact either by filing a brief or more likely by just passing a new law flip the result of an election after that election is already

2 (17m 38s):
happened. How likely a scenario is this I mean we've got challenges in Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, you mentioned another one in North Carolina, is there a fair chance that this election ends up being decided in the Supreme Court of the United States,

3 (17m 54s):
so I think it's the answer to that probably depends on how close to the election is and how close it is in several key States, you know, if Biden wins, Pennsylvania by you know, six seven eight points, I think even this Supreme Court would Have a tough time coming up with the way to throw out that many ballots. But if the election is closed, you know, we've already seen that the Supreme Court is willing to say that potentially tens of thousands of ballots need to be thrown out. So in a close election, I think that there's a very high likelihood that it's going to wind up coming down to the court

2 (18m 32s):
and how prepared are the Biden and Trump campaigns to deal with something like that. So I mean

3 (18m 37s):
both parties have massive legal teams and legal War chests, you know, the Republican party. It's been reported had a 20 million dollar War chest for election related litigation on the Democratic party has a huge operation. They've brought in Don verrilli who is the former solicitor general of the United States. So both parties are preparing and are bringing in their big guns. No one's going to be surprised by election litigation and no one's going to be unprepared in the They won't have lawyers. The problem is that there's a six or three Republican Supreme Court, and there is uncertainty as to whether that court is going to follow the law or whether it's going to come up with new rules.

3 (19m 23s):
That might benefit Trump.

2 (19m 25s):
Well, that's a lovely place to leave it in. Thank you so much. Ian milhiser he writes about the Supreme Court over at vox.com where you can

1 (19m 39s):
find his article on this, Wisconsin ruling

2 (19m 41s):
and many many more. This is today

1 (19m 43s):
explained.

2 (20m 12s):
Xerox wants to help you make now work because right now there are a lot

1 (20m 17s):
of things getting in the way of that work give it to future-ready solutions that will help your business Thrive and take on this new normal at Xerox.com Vox Xerox automates and digitizes your system. So being remote doesn't slow down your flow and when

2 (20m 30s):
you need to offer personalized care to a customer Xerox helps you do so with tech solutions that feel human

1 (20m 37s):
learn more about how to transform your business for these Changing Times at Xerox Dom. flash box Hi, I'm Neil Patel co-founder and editor and chief of The Verge and host of decoder a new podcast from The Verge in the VOX media podcast network of a big ideas and other problems for over a decade. I've been interviewing leaders from the worlds of Technology business and policy about how they run their organizations make decisions and consider policy changes that could fundamentally alter entire Industries like Senator Ed Markey on the future of connectivity in America. Broadband has become the equivalent of Our electricity for people AMD CEO.

1 (21m 17s):
Dr. Lisa Sue on building the next generation of processors. Your the idea was technology is you have to make a set of choices three to five years in advance Google an alphabet CEO Sundar pichai on the current crisis and adapting to it cold. It is blurred the lines between consumer and Enterprise and people are using products in all kinds of contexts and Neil Young on from his feelings the MacBook Pro. It's a piece of crap. Are you kidding with decoder? I'll be expanding this. These conversations with a diverse cast of CEOs policymakers and innovators some you know, and some you wouldn't expect we'll talk about how they're navigating and ever-changing Landscape what keeps them up at night and what it all means for our shared future.

1 (21m 58s):
We're asking tough questions going to break some news and we're going to have some fun. So look for a decoder with nilay Patel in apple podcasts or your favorite podcast.