0 (1s):
Hey, I'm Sam Sanders and I'm guest hosting today. Explained seeing a reality star on social media is not that unusual, but a reality star on Instagram calling for her colleagues to unionize. Well,

2 (17s):
These are the 10 terms that I propose Subject to modification. I did not buy The Idiot Guide to starting a union in 24 hours.

0 (25s):
That's Bethany Frankel, OG Real Housewife, and now Labor Agitator.

2 (31s):
The minimum should be $5,000 per episode. Well

0 (34s):
Go off. Bethany Talent

2 (36s):
Should receive a 10% raise each season.

0 (40s):
Now to be clear, Bethany is just one star, and that does not make a revolution, but a giant lawsuit calling for major changes to the way reality TV treats its cast and crew members that could end up forcing some big systemic change. A reality TV reckoning

1 (1m 5s):
Today explained

0 (1m 8s):
N B C Universal received a letter. It was from two high-powered Hollywood attorneys with scary reputations. They were talking about a lawsuit and they were lobbying some pretty gnarly accusations. In the

3 (1m 20s):
Letter. They alleged that N B C has this pattern of quote, grotesque and depraved mistreatment of its reality stars. They say, quote, that these individuals have been mentally, physically victimized by N B C and threatened with ruin if they speak out about their mistreatment.

0 (1m 37s):
That's Claudia Rosenbaum. I

3 (1m 39s):
Cover pop culture for Vulture New York magazine. In addition, I'm an attorney.

0 (1m 44s):
Claudia has been following the twists and turns of this case very closely, and there's more in that letter. They

3 (1m 50s):
Accuse N B C of attempting to manufacture instability by applying cast members on the show with alcohol, while also depriving them of food and sleep and denying them mental health services and covering up acts of sexual violence.

0 (2m 4s):
There are allegations of revenge porn fraud, false imprisonment. When you see those kind of words in a letter as an attorney, what do you think happens next? Yeah,

3 (2m 17s):
They're pretty severe allegations and you know, they haven't gotten into any specifics and they haven't said what shows they're referencing or what reality stars they're talking about. They've been pretty vague. They're just saying, you know, we're doing an investigation,

0 (2m 34s):
But these lawyers could be talking about any number of reality stars because NBCUniversal makes a lot of reality tv. It owns Bravo, so you know, they've got the entire real Housewives empire. How do

4 (2m 48s):
You know what's good for me? That's my opinion.

0 (2m 51s):
They've also got the below deck diaspora.

5 (2m 55s):
I've never heard of any yacht ever having a foam party. Foam parties should probably just

6 (2m 59s):
Stay where they belong. In 1997,

0 (3m 1s):
They got Project Runway, make it

3 (3m 3s):
Work, go,

0 (3m 4s):
Go, go. And like a million other shows also in BC Universal is a parent company of e and Oxygen and Telemundo, and you get it. Lots of networks, lots of shows, lots and lots of reality stars. So far. NBCUniversal is not saying much about this, but they have released a bit of a statement.

3 (3m 27s):
N B C has said that they're committed to maintaining a safe and respectful workplace for their cast and crew. On the reality show, they say they've taken appropriate workplace trainings in place and any complaints have been brought to their attention and they've investigated them. And you know, situations have been dealt with and they provided medical and psychological support to cast members if needed.

0 (3m 48s):
But the thing about reality TV is you can watch it, which means you can see some of this stuff play out, like how an endless stream of alcohol might put cast members in dangerous situations. There was this one recent episode on an episode of Below Deck, down Under, it's a Bravo show. This scene got a lot of attention.

7 (4m 6s):
The first thing I thought about when I got out of bed,

8 (4m 9s):
Money and alcohol.

0 (4m 11s):
So in this episode, a crew member named Margo gets trashed. She's literally passed out in her cabin. Another crew member named Luke walks into her cabin, naked, gets in her bed, and producers, they intervene,

9 (4m 25s):
Open, open, open again. We can't, we can't, we can't do that. We can't do that. We can't do that.

0 (4m 31s):
They kick Luke out of Margo's room and kick him off the whole show.

6 (4m 35s):
You need to get up, mate. You need to go, you need to get off the boat tonight. Really? Yeah,

3 (4m 43s):
Like that night he was asked to leave the boat and when he came back the next day, he was told that he was fired. you know, they did take Swift action in in in that situation when you know there was something so wrong happening in front of their eyes. They, you know, took immediate action.

0 (4m 60s):
So yeah, the producers stepped in here, but cast members getting wasted is a big part of this show. It's baked in. It's like there's a yacht, there are crew members, there's booze, which means dangerous situations are maybe almost baked into the show. This is the kind of thing these lawyers are talking about. By the way, these lawyers, they're kind of a big deal. Mark Geragos and Brian Friedman, just

3 (5m 25s):
So you know a little bit about Mark Geragos, I mean he's represented Michael Jackson, Winona Rider, Chris Brown, usher, and, and Freeman has in the past represented Bethany Frankel Diplo and Chris Harrison when he was fired from the Bachelor, Megan Kelly, when she was taken off her show. So they're both familiar with these type of cases.

0 (5m 45s):
Now, the backdrop to all of this is that TV networks and streamers like Netflix are having to lean really hard on reality shows right now because of the writers and active strikes. Reality shows are cheap and easy to make and not subject to these strikes. They don't need unionized actors or unionized writers to be made.

3 (6m 4s):
If it wasn't for reality shows, I don't know what people would be watching. We just have the Bachelorette wrapped up

10 (6m 10s):
In a matter of moments. I'm about to be the happiest person.

11 (6m 15s):
It's just crazy.

3 (6m 16s):
We've got new episodes of Blow Deck airing. We've got new episodes of Real Housewives of Atlanta.

12 (6m 23s):
I was shocked, honey. I was in tears almost, and it had a white refrigerator. I was like, oh, oh, not a white refrigerator girl. Please put your shoes on. Let's go find you a home, honey.

3 (6m 34s):
Ooh, real Housewives of New York. Real Housewives of Orange County. So there's like a constant slate of new reality shows while the other shows have been basically taken off the air. So if you wanna watch something new, you're turning to them right now.

0 (6m 49s):
So reality TV is very important right now. Maybe so important that the Stars should get paid more.

2 (6m 55s):
The minimum should be $5,000 per episode. Bethany

0 (6m 59s):
Frankl, what are you doing here? Talent

2 (7m 0s):
Should receive a 10% raise each season.

0 (7m 4s):
She's asking to get paid. Frankl is about as big a reality star as you can get. She's one of the original cast members of the real Housewives of New York, and she has a brand skinny girl for the gal guy, they or them who likes their cocktails with a side of body shame. But her latest enterprise is labor agitation. These

2 (7m 24s):
Are the 10 terms that I propose subject to modification. I did not buy The Idiot Guide to starting a union in 24 hours.

0 (7m 32s):
A union for reality stars, minimum pay, seasonal raises, residuals a bunch of other things. But the message here is that these shows make a ton of money and the cast do not.

3 (7m 43s):
You know, it's your life story. So it's, you know your life, that's your giving in exchange, and they don't really have control.

2 (7m 50s):
Reality TV is heavily produced, heavily formatted, and it is a rough and tumble job. Just ask anyone who's been successful in reality TV and you are not hiding behind the words of someone else, where no one's going to bother you or cancel you. If you say something in a moment of just being truly who you are or make a mistake, you are completely and utterly always exposed, and your life and career could end in an instant by just one wrong word.

0 (8m 21s):
Frankl says that countless reality stars have called her up about the union and they've told her they are so down. But we are not getting a lot of other manifestos on Instagram like Frankls or outspoken support for the idea of a big lawsuit. This might have something to do with another boogeyman of reality tv. The N D a,

3 (8m 40s):
One of the things that could be preventing people from coming forward and talking is around three weeks after Geragos and Friedman sent their original letter, they sent a follow-up letter on August 20th to N B C Council demanding that there are these contract terms that are sort of like in, in a sense NDAs that are keeping some of these people from coming forward and talking to them. And so they demanded in their letter that N B C just makes some broad sweep and release these people from these, what they call illegal non-disclosure agreements that they said are in place to hide civil and criminal wrongs.

0 (9m 24s):
So is a reality show reckoning actually on the way a financial glow up for cast members, better protections for cast and crews? Well, no more when this lawsuit actually drops. If it does, and we'll see if Bethany can find power in the union. But the thing is, if reality TV does change, if it's fairer to the stars, safer for everyone. Is that the reality TV that we the viewing public actually wanna watch? I asked my co-pilot Claudia Rosenbaum all about this and I asked because I wonder what actually is the fix for some of the conceits of these shows.

0 (10m 5s):
If the conceit of Below Deck is they're stuck on a boat for weeks at a time living and working together and there's alcohol, is there any way to clean up that business model?

3 (10m 16s):
Yeah, and I don't know whether, you know, that's what people tune in to see. I mean, when you're watching The Bachelor, if someone's drinking too much and saying crazy things, that's gonna make the headlines of the show and that's gonna be what, you know, catches people's attention. So it's part of what like draws in the ratings. So it's, it's a definite, it's difficult to figure out a fix

0 (10m 40s):
Coming up, someone working on a fix. He is a guy who worked on a reality TV show, you may have heard of Love is Blind on Netflix. He actually was a contestant. Nick Thompson. Guess that Nick. He has stories after the break.

13 (11m 5s):
Hi, I'm Neli Patel, editor-in-chief of the Verge and host of the Decoder podcast. This September I'm taking over as one of the new hosts of the code conference alongside CNBC's, Julia Borson and Casey Newton from Platformer and Hard Fork. You've heard us all talk to major players in the worlds of tech and business on our shows, but Code has live unfiltered journalism you won't find anywhere else. This year we have onstage interviews with x slash Twitter ceo, Linda Yao, Microsoft C T O, Kevin Scott, and many more. From AI to streaming platform shifts to privacy. No one knows exactly where we're headed, but Code is where the world's most influential people come together to find out. Join us for the start of a new era.

13 (11m 47s):
Apply to attend the code conference now at Vox media.com/code. That's Vox media.com/code. We'll see you in September.

0 (11m 59s):
Brandon Taylor is an acclaimed author who also reviews books and he says right now, book criticism feels off

14 (12m 8s):
The book discourse feels like it's driven by these two polls, which are the picking an argument hatchet job idea. Yeah. And then there's like, no, we're all cheerleaders for books. Yeah, and the sort of greatest casualty is that no one has ideas anymore. They just have bullet points and access to grind.

0 (12m 26s):
Brandon Taylor on his novel, the Late Americans and How we talk about books this week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast,

15 (12m 35s):
Waking up in the morning thinking about

14 (12m 38s):
Today, explained

0 (12m 40s):
Love is Blind on Netflix is huge. A cultural juggernaut perhaps because the premise is a little bonkers. Welcome

16 (12m 47s):
To Love is Blind. Woo.

17 (12m 50s):
The pods are officially open.

0 (12m 53s):
A bunch of single people hang out in these rooms called pods. They talk to other single people from their pods. They date them from their pods. And the whole time you don't get to see the person that you are ostensibly falling in love with.

18 (13m 7s):
There's something about your voice.

14 (13m 9s):
That's what everyone keeps telling me.

0 (13m 11s):
Until you are ready to propose,

16 (13m 14s):
You're holding my mother's engagement ring.

0 (13m 19s):
Remind me, how long was it from the first conversation with this person to engagement?

19 (13m 26s):
So it's about 10 days.

0 (13m 27s):
Oh my God. That's Nick Thompson. He was on season two of Love Is Blind. He got engaged and he got married on the show. Now Nick has a lot to say about what it's like to star on a reality TV show. And he wants everyone, the networks, the streamers, us, the viewers, he wants us all to do better. So we talked to Nick about his experience and I began by asking him what it felt like to show up to the house where they all were staying on that first day.

19 (13m 56s):
This is Nick. Who's this? It's Tricia. Hey Tricia. It's, it all happened so fast. Well it's, it's a set, so it's not actually a house,

0 (14m 6s):
But you live in an apartment.

19 (14m 7s):
So when you're doing the pods, you're actually just on set for like 18, 20 hours and then you get sent back to a hotel room when you're in the

0 (14m 14s):
Hotel room. No, Nick. Yeah, they lied to me. I know

19 (14m 17s):
I'm ruining everything for you.

0 (14m 18s):
There's not, I thought y'all were all just in like an apartment building for the whole time. So, so like, tell me about this set and tell me what that was like and tell me what it was like to go from a hotel room to a set for 18 hours a day.

19 (14m 31s):
Exhausting. You don't even know what day it is. You don't really know what time it is. You, you're, you're sort of shuffled around. You don't have access to any technology or the internet. It's very isolating. So when you first arrive, you go to set, you're not allowed to talk to any of the cast members. So you're, you're already starting to be isolated. You give up your phone, you give up your wallet, you give up your passport, you give up any money you have, you know, any real form of identification or ability to be a consumer and purchase anything. You're not given a hotel room key when you get sent to your hotel. So you're not allowed to leave the hotel room without permission. You can't really comprehend what it's like to be isolated like that.

19 (15m 13s):
It's basically like solidarity confinement and you are, you're just stuck there with your thoughts. So, you know, it's a slow build. So when you get there, you're okay. You can't talk then okay, we give us your phone. We knew we were gonna give the phone. None of us knew we weren't gonna have our wallet or any identification, which I mean imagine that, imagine it's like the Texas Chainsaw massacre. You finally get away from mother face and then you just get a car that stops you and you're like, oh my God, I've been held captive by a reality TV show. Right? Like, what's gonna happen if you leave? You literally can't leave.

0 (15m 47s):
Did you ever expect before you went onto Love is Blind, that you would come out of that show and that process comparing it to the Texas Chainsaw Massacre?

19 (15m 59s):
No, I didn't. That's probably the most thought provoking question I think I've ever answered. No, I didn't. And they scare you into not wanting to leave either. Because if you leave during production, you owe them 50 K in damages.

0 (16m 12s):
Stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop. Are you serious, Nick Netflix is going to make you pay them $50,000 if you choose to leave your reality TV prison cell

19 (16m 25s):
Without a producer's permission. Yes.

0 (16m 28s):
Did you have any idea that that was one of the stipulations of your contract when you signed it? I

19 (16m 34s):
Read the entire contract. I had to have some amendments made. You did? Oh yeah. But when you're reading this contract, 'cause it's so unreal or, and outside of the realistic life that people live, that you really don't even comprehend what these contracts are saying until you look at them in retrospect. So like for example, I knew I was giving my phone up, I did not know I was giving up my wallet. I did not know. I'd have to give up all my credit cards and my IDs so that they don't tell you until you're already there.

0 (17m 3s):
What were the producers doing in the midst of this extreme isolation for all the contestants

19 (17m 9s):
From before you even go on the show, your producers are treating you like they're your friends and they're getting to know you. But what they're really doing is getting to know what lever to pull, getting to know your triggers, getting to know your insecurities, getting to know how they can get you to do the things that they have predetermined that they want you to do. And so, you know, I I think you get a little bit of the, the friendly vibe from that. They also don't want you to actually leave. So they, they try to toe that line of warden and, and line of, I'm your friend and I'm here to help you find love and find out what's best for you. And you know, I'm, I'm not gonna manipulate you into saying or doing anything. And then that's what their, that's what their job is, quite frankly.

0 (17m 50s):
What was the worst thing that producers did to you in your opinion? They

19 (17m 54s):
Didn't do anything deliberately bad to me. They were very damaging to Danielle.

20 (17m 59s):
I sat in the closet, I locked the door, I shut this and I sat in the closet and cried. They

19 (18m 3s):
Were saying things to her, asking her questions, like just killing her, her confidence and trying to exploit her insecurities. And I mean, she had a panic attack in Mexico. They made her look crazy. They didn't tell me she had a panic attack and told me to go talk about the party I was at with all the couples and she was just coming down from it. Oh, I don't know, maybe an hour earlier. Yeah,

20 (18m 24s):
I mean it looked like you were having fun looked like. Yeah. What do you think I was doing out there? I was bored. You watched it? Yeah, well I watched part of it.

19 (18m 33s):
No, no psychologist, no mental health expert, no one just producers. But we were all struggling. We were all struggling as it was going on. We were struggling in anticipation for an airing. I think most of us were, were a little uneasy at the very least. But when you're filming, like you just don't realize it's happening. 'cause you're just slowly being chipped away from a mental and physical perspective because you're exhausted. You're, you are not sleeping right, you're not eating right, you're not getting exercise. You just takes its toll on you. 'cause you start to wonder like what's real and what's not. And then you watch the show back and it's like you're getting gaslit because you're like, that didn't happen that way. I did not say that to that person. They left out the context of that scene.

19 (19m 14s):
And that is, that's a hard thing to, to go through.

0 (19m 16s):
Yeah. One of the things I've heard or read, and I wanna say it pertains to the show that you were on was the amount of alcohol always around and the absence of other fluids like water, what was going on there?

19 (19m 30s):
So from the moment you get there all the way until you are, you're like on set when you're back home, like you, you have limited access to food and water. It's definitely not at your discretion, but there's just always alcohol. And if there was an alcohol, alcohol showed up very shortly thereafter. And that was actually one of the, the policies was that if, if you're filming there's alcohol available.

0 (19m 54s):
Wow. Wow. All right. I hear you saying all of this. There're gonna be some people who hear this and say you signed up for it. This is a show about people being in pods isolated to find love. you know, you saw the first season they had alcohol there. People will say since the days of the real world reality TV has kind of worked with like alcohol and drama. What do you say to folks who are just like, you know what Nick, you signed up for this.

19 (20m 25s):
Here's what I will say. You again, don't know what you're signing up for, right? You don't realize what the isolation's going to do to, you don't even know that you're not gonna have adequate access to food and water. I mean, I'm also very keen on the fact that you cannot sign away your basic human rights, right? I don't, I don't even really have a lot of patience for the, you signed up for it crowd anymore because you don't know what it's actually like until you live it.

0 (20m 50s):
How much did you make from doing the show?

19 (20m 52s):
$10,000 when you include after the altar, which when you're in the pods equates to about $7 and 14 cents a minute or an hour.

0 (20m 60s):
Nick,

19 (21m 1s):
I feel, you know, I feel like there needs to be a lot of change in this industry. And you know, as you alluded all the way back to real world days, all the way back to, you know, and I've actually unfortunately talked to people from like talk shows in the eighties who have had ex extremely similar situations where they're being put into scenarios. They're, they're have no idea they're getting into. So I think we need change and that's kind of where I find my fire. So I think we have to, we have to get some basic labor practices around these reality shows because they're making billions of dollars. Love is Blind is the most washed reality show in the world.

19 (21m 43s):
And there's no residuals, there's no excess payment. They're, you know, pumping out two seasons a year. Now, first and foremost, there needs to be lawyers that can review these contracts. We have to get these contracts to not just completely benefit the production companies. I mean if you read these things, there's like 30 PA minus like 30 pages long and there's like I said, 50 k if you leave, I think one of the most important things we need to do is actually support people in their mental health and wellness. Because no matter what the show is it, it's a toll, takes a toll on your mental health. You're making these insane, life altering decisions every day in a pressure cooker environment. And so I think we need to have independent mental health support before the show, during the show and then after the show.

19 (22m 26s):
People are dramatic in general. We'll still have the drama. It's just maybe we won't damage people from an emotional or physical perspective while we do it.

0 (22m 36s):
So you have a group organizing to help reality stars past, current and future. And I'm sure you've seen by now this legal letter about workplace protections for reality show stars. Do you think we're on the cusp of some big change in the way these companies treat reality? TV contestants,

19 (22m 58s):
I think it's coming whether they want it to come or not. More and more people are obviously speaking out then I think all of us coming together is going to be what forces change in the industry because the time is, is now for a variety of reasons. But one of 'em is with Hollywood on strike. There's just more reality TV being produced and if there's more reality TV being produced, that means there's gonna be more people that are mentally and physically damaged coming outta these shows. We're in this moment where we need to stand together, understand that we have rights as human beings understand that we are workers and we are making a plethora of cash for these production companies and we deserve protections and rights and negotiating power and all sorts of, you know, typical labor laws that somehow reality TV production has escaped.

0 (23m 46s):
That was Nick Thompson. He got married on Netflix. Now Nick helps run an advocacy group for people who are about to star, are starring or have starred on reality tv. It's called You Can U C A M. They are pushing for a lot of the things that Nick has already talked about, plus a union Nick called Bethany, trust me. Also, we reached out to Netflix and the production company that makes Love is Blind, just to see if they wanted to respond to any of this. We didn't hear back. Our show today was produced by Petras Hady mdi and edited by Jolie Myers. It was engineered by Patrick Boyd and David Herman and fact checked by Laura Bullard, also Listeners.

0 (24m 32s):
I host another podcast I think you might wanna check out. It's called Intuit. It's from Vulture. And we have an episode out right now with the novelist, Brandon Taylor. We talk all about how you write a book in the age of book talk and Twitter X. We also discuss his new book and why the book discourse in general just feels off. It's a fun, smart, good chat. He's great. We're great. Go check it out into it. All right, this is today Explained.