3 (6s):
Laura began politics editor here at vaux. I was wondering if you could help me with some scenarios sure. So I think we all know how this impeachment Story begins

1 (18s):
press reports began to break up a phone call by the president of the United States calling upon a foreign power to intervene in his election. This is a breach of his constitutional

3 (30s):
responsibilities, but I'm wondering As I think many people out there might be how it could end. How many scenarios would you say we even have

1 (39s):
here? Okay, get ready for it. I gave this some thought and we're looking at

3 (44s):
nine nine scenarios. Yes. Yes. Oh my gosh. Well, so I guess to go through a mall we should start with no impeachment at all. Is that scenario

1 (53s):
one? Yes, let's start there. So scenario one is in the house where they're holding their inquiry into Donald Trump. They decide you know, what? We're not going to hold a vote. We're not going to vote to impeach him and things go back to what pass for normal in our current age of American

3 (1m 13s):
politics. Is that a real possibility here after this point after Nancy Pelosi was sort of pressured into going this route in the first place.

1 (1m 21s):
I think this looks pretty unlikely at this point because Democrats have gotten on board behind the inquiry. There's been a lot of call on the 2020 campaign. Well for his impeachment and at the same time public opinion is Shifting towards impeachment. So it seems unlikely at this stage that Democrats would just not hold a vote.

3 (1m 44s):
Okay. So scenario one no impeachment whatsoever looking unlikely at this point scenario two. I imagine must must follow impeachment and then a whole Litany of options after that.

1 (1m 55s):
Right? Right. So scenario two is the house says, okay, we're going to hold a vote and whether it's party In or not, but Democrats have enough votes in the house to send this issue on to the summit. And that's where we hid our next PATH and the road

3 (2m 13s):
and what is that

1 (2m 14s):
path? We know that Senator Mitch McConnell has said he will definitely take up impeachment. There was a little bit of a question about that of wood. He wouldn't he does he have to does he not and he has said

3 (2m 24s):
if it were to happen the Senate has no choice if the house were to act the Senate immediately goes into a

1 (2m 29s):
trial but the question is what that will look like. So he can hold a robust trial in the Senate he could hold a quick trial that is not very robust or something in between and each of those scenarios could have various

3 (2m 47s):
outcomes. What is a quick trial look

1 (2m 50s):
like Mitch McConnell brings it up. Maybe it's a day maybe it's two days. They go over the evidence and Republicans Democrats vote along a party line and Trump is off the hook. No impeachment.

3 (3m 2s):
Okay. And is a long trial more of like an Earnest inquiry here.

1 (3m 6s):
Yeah. So if Mitch McConnell thought you know what let's do the full thing. You know, I don't want to be accused of not giving this it's full airing or it's you know Fair showing which is seems a little unlikely that he would want to do this, but he could very well say let's do lots of really go for it and call witnesses and really make the Senate kind of like a courtroom and run a whole trial they could and at the end of that. Could have a couple different outcomes, you know, there could be a party line vote again. There could be at this stage some more vulnerable Senate Republicans who feel Under Pressure to vote to impeach Trump just because of the nature of the inquiry and effects that come out and they're put in a bit of a harder spot or you could have you know a situation where Republicans really break and decide.

1 (4m 1s):
Yeah, we're going to vote to impeach. Each Trump. That's the kind of the third option of what could happen. That's the big one. That is the big one. That's the

3 (4m 8s):
biggie. And I'm guessing that option leads to many options

1 (4m 16s):
as well. Oh, yes. So this big option it would require 67 Senators to agree to impeach Donald Trump Republicans control the Senate narrowly. So it would be a big swing it would take a lot of Republicans to say, you know, what we're going to vote to impeach this guy

3 (4m 34s):
what happens if some Republicans presumably join a whole lot of Democrats and vote to convict the president in the Senate after the house in

1 (4m 42s):
peaches. Okay. So at that point Donald Trump would be ousted and so the question would become. Okay. Well who takes his place and that's where things get really weird. So the obvious answer would be okay the vice president steps in Mike Pence. If you remember when Richard Nixon was pressured out of office, he actually wasn't impeached. He was pressured out he had Vice President Gerald Ford sitting there who could sort of weirdly was completely disconnected from his his administration because of a whole other Scandal that was going on at the time, but it allowed Republicans to just have a placeholder in there who was not affiliated with the Scandal.

3 (5m 30s):
Mr. Vice President. Are you prepared to take the oath of office as president of the United States? I am sir dispense get the whole inauguration thing. Does he get the ceremony or does it happen in some back room? He puts his hand on a Bible and it's done.

1 (5m 43s):
Well, one of the problems here is that unlike Gerald Ford Mike Pence is now implicated in the Scandal that would have theoretically undone Trump. Right? So Mike Hence, usually lays pretty low in the White House and is not caught up in kind of the scandals of the day. But as it turns out he was involved in the pressure campaign to get the president of Ukraine to dig up dirt on Joe Biden the

3 (6m 17s):
president spoke about lack of European support. You spoke about corruption, and he tasks me to go in to meet with the president of Ukraine and carry our concerns about those issues and anyone that Looks at the president's transcript will see that the president was raising issues that were appropriate that were genuine interest to the American people.

1 (6m 38s):
He actually had a conversation with the Ukrainian president where he talked about foreign aid that had been suspended by the u.s. To Ukraine and he talked about corruption and he's sort of kind of had this conversation where he said we'll get you the money back. If you do this for us. So in some ways he is even more Explicitly involved in a quid pro quo with Ukraine than even the call notes of Donald Trump's call with the president of Ukraine show. So he is tied up in this he is not he is not outside of the Scandal but really in the center of it.

3 (7m 17s):
So in the highly unlikely scenario that Republicans joined Democrats and convict President Trump and he's Buddha from off as and Mike Pence has implicated to and thus can't be president. What are we talking? Talking here. Alright,

1 (7m 31s):
hold on to your hats on. We are talking about

3 (7m 36s):
President Pelosi.

1 (7m 39s):
Yeah, next in line would be Nancy Pelosi.

3 (7m 52s):
Does she even want it? I thought she's happy as Speaker.

1 (7m 56s):
I mean, maybe this is like hurt. Maybe this is all been just a Nancy Pelosi Galaxy brain the entire Trump Administration. It was all building towards president Nancy Pelosi. But we don't get to just end there as much as I'm sure some people would love the story to end there. Unfortunately for Nancy Pelosi the law that sort of puts her in place next in line. The presidential succession act has always had some looming questions over it that I've never really been tested and the issue is basically that there are some legal Scholars who think that putting the speaker of the house or the Senate President Pro Temp who is Chuck Grassley that they don't qualify under the language of the ACT, huh.

1 (8m 49s):
So before Nancy Pelosi became president Pelosi there would likely be a challenge and likely that challenge would end up in front of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court is now controlled by conservatives. And so there's a very good chance that we would see an outcome in which president Pelosi gets to go back to being Speaker of the House Pelosi but not president

3 (9m 11s):
Pelosi does George w-- Bush become president again, if it goes to the Supreme Court,

1 (9m 16s):
no, there will be no Floridian influence hear anything like that. But next in line is the Secretary of State

3 (9m 29s):
Pompeii. Yes, but

1 (9m 33s):
we run into another problem, right so Secretary of State Pompeyo is also implicated in the Ukraine Scandal possibly even more so than Mike Pence for those of you who rightly. Are you living your lives every day Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was on the infamous call listening in When Donald Trump tried to pressure the Ukrainian president into investigating Joe Biden and he was subsequently involved in what I would call a cover. Up of the call The Wall Street Journal is reporting that President Trump pressed the president of Ukraine eight times to work with Rudy Giuliani to investigate Joe Biden, son.

1 (10m 18s):
What do you know about those conversations?

3 (10m 21s):
So you just gave me a report about a I seek whistleblower complaint not none of which I've

1 (10m 28s):
seen he was explicitly asked about it and sort of played dumb. It turns out he's been in other involved in other ways and in contact with Rudy Giuliani and and so he's he is He's very caught up in this and passively worse because he is using the sort of trappings of the state department to help Donald Trump out in all of this, which is arguably worse possibly than Pence doing one weird conversation. It's hard to say

3 (10m 58s):
and and then who's President

1 (10m 60s):
so get ready America for President Steve

3 (11m 3s):
minuchin the treasury secretary. That's right. the guy who made The Lego Movie

1 (11m 18s):
definitely made the Lego movie. He was this underwhelming choice for Secretary of the Treasury. However appears to have no connection to pressuring International leaders into looking into conspiracy theories about Joe Biden. So therefore qualified to be our

3 (11m 38s):
president. Okay, Laura. I was counting that whole time. So we've got no impeachment whatsoever. We've got the house in peaches, but the Republican Senate does not we've got the house in peaches and the Republican Senate can Vic's with Mike Pence becoming president with Nancy Pelosi becoming president with Pompeo becoming president with minutiae and becoming president, but there is one more. Or option here right there is and it's kind of like the funniest most absurd of a mall.

1 (12m 19s):
So there is a certain irony to it because Donald Trump is kind of being accused of bullying or strong-arming the president of Ukraine. And another option would be for Republicans to kind of bully and Strongarm Donald Trump behind the scenes and get him to resign. That's what Republicans did with Richard Nixon.

3 (12m 40s):
I think we've arrived at a point where both the national interest and his own interest will best be served by resigning. It's not just his enemies who feel that way many of his best friends and I consider myself one of them believe now that this would be the most appropriate course. So the last option scenario on the table here. Is that President Donald Trump resigns. Yep that he just

1 (13m 10s):
quits which

3 (13m 12s):
seems the least likely of them all.

1 (13m 16s):
You know, we haven't seen him show any other acts of humility in his long career in public life. So it seems pretty unlikely this time around but who knows you never

3 (13m 27s):
know more likely to me seems like the the Senate could convict Donald Trump he be booted out of office, but then he would just try to run again in 2020. Is that a

1 (13m 38s):
possibility? Yeah. So if Donald Trump is impeached by the house, but not the Senate he can of course run again in 2020 if he is impeached by the Senate and You from Office strap in because we this is just an unprecedented moment. We don't know if what what kind of legal challenges there would be if he tried to run again. I mean from a political standpoint. The only way he would be ousted is if public opinion had turned against him so hard that Republicans just thought we have to get rid of this guy, but, you know, could he theoretically mount a campaign? I mean, it seems like the answer should be no if he's been removed from office, but it's never been tested.

1 (14m 19s):
In American history, so we don't know how it might play out.

3 (14m 22s):
So am I wrong in thinking that the most likely scenario here is that the Democrats vote to impeach the Republicans do a perfunctory trial and Donald Trump never gets

1 (14m 31s):
convicted. I think if you had to ask me, you know, what would happen today? I think that that is what would happen, but they're not moving forward today and what we've seen happen is public opinion sort of Shifting in favor of impeachment. So if more comes Out that's damaging to Trump and public opinion continues to shift you. We don't know. I am not so bullish that the only outcome here is that Donald Trump skates away

3 (15m 7s):
Laura McGann politics editor at vox.com. Thank you so much for running through wild scenarios with me. I'm sure you're welcome

1 (15m 15s):
Sean.