0 (0s):
Maybe a year or two ago your friend started buying crypto.

1 (3s):
Oh man, I just got one 85th of a Bitcoin right

0 (6s):
Now. And then you notice celebrities endorsing crypto fortune

2 (10s):
Favors

0 (11s):
The brave. And then your dad was telling you he got a bunch of crypto, Hey, hey Harvey, what's a doge? And then you couldn't take it anymore and you were like, Maybe I should get me some crypto. I don't think so. Well, if you didn't, a crypto exchange called FTX just gave you a reason to pat yourself on the back.

3 (31s):
New chaos in the world of cryptocurrency, FTX shocked investors by declaring bankruptcy this week it spent millions making sure it's name was seen and no

4 (41s):
Ftx. Now under federal investigation and its founder taking responsibility,

5 (46s):
There was a run on the bank. The largest crypto exchange in the world failed last week because its customers lost confidence in the entire system.

0 (55s):
The Crypto Alyse is coming on today. Explain

7 (1m 0s):
How far would you go to live longer and live better? Chris Hemsworth is putting that question to the test in the new Disney plus original series Limitless with Chris Hemsworth teaming up with the world's leading longevity experts watches. Chris pushes his body and mind to their absolute limits, putting his own life on the line to find out how he can all live longer, healthier lives. From National Geographic Academy Award nominee Darren Aronofsky and Utopia Limitless with Chris Hemsworth is streaming November 16th only on Disney plus

8 (1m 34s):
The critically acclaimed FX show. Atlanta comes to a close this week. It became known for challenging viewers expectations if not downright provoking those viewers repeatedly.

2 (1m 46s):
The thing I've realized from doing four seasons of Atlanta stuff I think is funny. Some people might be like, that's terrifying or that's very sad.

8 (1m 55s):
Why Atlanta actually meant to piss you off this week on Into it Vultures Pop Culture podcast.

0 (2m 8s):
Perhaps you, like many of us at today explained, have been wondering what the hell is going on with crypto all of a sudden. So

5 (2m 16s):
First of all, there's like a succession level human drama here I

9 (2m 19s):
Have you beat, you Morons,

5 (2m 23s):
One rival destroying another. You've got financial chaos, you've got exotic locales. This is going to be a movie and probably a good one.

0 (2m 31s):
Liz Hoffman has been following the story for a brand new news outfit called SE four.

5 (2m 37s):
I think you don't need to either understand crypto or care about it to like understand and care about this story. There was a run on the bank. The the largest crypto exchange in the world failed last week because its customers lost confidence in the entire system.

3 (2m 57s):
New chaos in the world of cryptocurrency. FTX shocked investors by declaring bankruptcy this week. It spent millions making sure its name was seen and known.

5 (3m 7s):
Crypto pioneers for the last decade have been talking a big game about how they have created their own financial system. The one that you know that we all live in is rigged and it's unfair and they are living outside of it and building a parallel one that will be the sort of financial utopia. They have not done that. The gravitational poll of the basic laws of finance continued to apply and that's what brought FTX down last week.

0 (3m 37s):
And a lot of people will probably hear FTX and think wtf, what is FTX and why is it so important?

5 (3m 47s):
FTX is or or was a large cryptocurrency exchange, kinda like the New York Stock Exchange, but for tokens like Bitcoin and Ether and then all the like goofy ones you've heard about over the last year or two. You might be wondering why you've heard that name. And the answer is that they've splashed their name everywhere. So they own the naming rights to the Miami Heat Stadium. Huh?

11 (4m 10s):
It's the first time the arena will have a different name in two decades.

12 (4m 14s):
Ftx ftx ftx. Gotta remember

5 (4m 16s):
That. Yes, they took out Super Bowl ads including a delightful one that now seems pretty precious with Larry David. Just like not buying the whole premise.

13 (4m 24s):
Like I was saying, it's ftx, it's a safe and easy way to get into crypto.

10 (4m 30s):
I don't

5 (4m 31s):
Think so. If you watch the World Series, they sponsored the umpires, right? The FTX logos on the umpires uniform, right? So they have spread their money around in like huge advertising blitz trying to sort of become the name brand of crypto.

14 (4m 44s):
We've known it as the FTX Arena for a little over a year, but that name will soon change. Again. Photos from Overhead show crews already removing the giant FTX logo after the company abruptly announced it will be filing for chapter 11 bankruptcy.

0 (5m 0s):
And there's one dude behind ftx.

5 (5m 4s):
Yeah, Sam Bankman Freed.

15 (5m 6s):
My name is Sam and this is my story.

10 (5m 8s):
Sam has crazy hair, Sam is vegan. Sam sleeps five hours a night. Sam lives in The Bahamas with 10 roommates, but Sam has 22 billion.

5 (5m 24s):
Everyone in crypto land calls him spf. And basically like two years ago, no one had ever heard of this guy and now he's fairly ubiquitous, I should say, right up front. Sam Bankman Freight is an investor in Sam for in my company, and

0 (5m 35s):
Vox is Future Perfect. Received a grant from his foundation too.

5 (5m 38s):
Yeah, he, he know he kind of came outta nowhere. He was at m i t he, he took over this sort of small brokerage firm a couple years ago and and basically rebuilt it as a crypto platform and by all counts like a pretty technically impressive one and certainly one that just got very big very fast.

3 (5m 56s):
Why created Exchange? Exchange when there were already so many big global players out there?

15 (6m 0s):
Yeah, I mean the basic answer is that we didn't think any of them had nailed

5 (6m 3s):
It. It made him on paper. Fabulously wealthy FTX in its last fundraising round was valued at $32 billion. Even if you've, you've never like paid any attention to crypto, you've probably heard his name as a huge political donor to Democrats almost exclusively. You

16 (6m 20s):
Are on a list that includes George Soros, Ken Griffin, Richard Elaine, Peter Teal, just below you. Why did you decide it was politics and not something more charitable?

15 (6m 30s):
I think that what it really goes down to is two things and the first that policy really matters, right?

5 (6m 35s):
He was also the face of, of, of crypto in, in Washington, right? Was a fixture on Capitol Hill. And he just like seemed like the one who was gonna take this from the goofy outer, vaguely criminal fringes into the mainstream financial system.

15 (6m 51s):
So I think like getting regulatory clarity is huge and I think it's good for everyone. I think it gives customer protection that we're missing right now. Real federal oversight protection against financial crimes, against systemic risk. So I think it's a win-win.

0 (7m 3s):
He maybe has like a nemesis in this story.

5 (7m 5s):
His nemesis in this story is this guy who goes by cz and he's the, the CEO of a rival crypto exchange called finance. Huh?

17 (7m 14s):
J Penza has gone from flipping a burger in McDonald's, the founding bin. Now the world's largest cryptocurrency

5 (7m 21s):
Exchange. CZI had a different view than spf, which is that crypto should really stand on its own, it shouldn't be integrated into the system. It should really replace it

18 (7m 30s):
In an industry where that's less regulation, it's actually more important for you to do the right thing. So sometimes regulation is very tricky because at 200 different countries, each one's slightly different, but the right thing people would've applied the common sense and it was quite easy to figure

5 (7m 43s):
Out. He was certainly not a public face, like much more the the rebel, you know, Sam Banford freed once, had taunted him on Twitter saying are even allowed to be in Washington DC which is a, a sort of a dig on his, his foreigner status. It's important to note though, you know, their story started a couple of years ago when Binance invested in ftx. It was an early backer, huh? And by all accounts, Sam and CZ were fairly friendly, but FTX started to get very big and Binance started to see them as a competitor. They kinda became frenemies and, and then frankly towards the end, straight out enemies and cz is the reason that we are here.

0 (8m 20s):
Okay, so tell me how this amicable relationship gets competitive.

5 (8m 25s):
So FTX starts to get very, very big and what looked like a fun investment by Binance and this sort of goofy little competitor that you know might be interesting, one day might be valuable. One day started to be really competitive At some point a few years ago, Sam Banque Freed said, You know what, I don't really want my my biggest competitor to be an investor in my company. And so he bought Binance out. Importantly, he did not buy them out with cash, he bought them out with tokens, huh? So FTX launched this token.

0 (8m 59s):
What is the FTT coin? FTT is the native token of the FTX Exchange. Holders of ftt are entitled to cheaper trading costs and collateral for futures trading.

5 (9m 9s):
It's funny money, it's, it's money that you can use within the FTX universe and like may have some value on its own right? Bitcoin is also a token. It's been around long enough that people see that it has some inherent value. You might remember Dogecoin just like went crazy last year for like utterly no reason. Finance ended up with, with like $2 billion of this token called ftt the FTX token. And last Sunday, just a week ago cz tweeted that he was gonna sell it. It was a little unclear. He seemed to be referring to an article that was published, you know, a week before by CoinDesk claimed they had some leak financials from FTX trading arm, this firm called Alameda Research that suggested some some weird ties between FTX and its trading arm.

5 (10m 6s):
Effectively if you read through the story and they were careful, but the implication was that Sam Bankman Freed was sort of propping up this failing hedge fund that he owned by stuffing it with these, these tokens that he had issued. Like just like a real house of card situation that appears to have made, you know, Binance pretty nervous. And so they said we want out of this thing and that is how every run on the bank starts.

19 (10m 32s):
Don't look now, but there's something funny going on over there at the bank, George,

5 (10m 35s):
Which is that someone gets nervous and asks for their money back. And that's, that's what happened here.

19 (10m 42s):
I've never really seen one, but that's got all the earmarks of being a run.

0 (10m 45s):
How does it play up?

5 (10m 46s):
Well the first thing that happens is that the price of that token collapses. You know, FTT is trading around 20, $25 a share. It just totally falls outta bed. And so then anyone else holding that token is like, Oh shit, I don't wanna own this either. So they all try to sell. The first I heard of this story was on Tuesday morning I started getting calls from people saying, Sandbank Madrid is out there looking for a billion dollars. He is calling rich people, he is calling investors. He needs money. And that is how you know people are desperate. That was really the start of the, of the unwind here.

0 (11m 21s):
Does he get his billion dollars?

5 (11m 23s):
No, no one will give him any money because financial investors are fairly savvy. And they looked at this and said, Nope, like that is a hole and it is getting bigger. I'm not putting money into it. You know, by noon on Tuesday, I'd heard the whole somewhere around five or $6 billion, it looks now to be closer to 10 billion. I mean just a ton of money that they were supposed to have that they don't. And so, you know, very quickly, Sam, in this sort of very hazy handshake deal to be sold to Binance, our tribal

3 (11m 60s):
Cz, the CEO of Binance tweeting that ftx, he says this afternoon FTX asked for our help, there is a significant liquidity crunch.

5 (12m 8s):
He says it was not a firm deal and you could see it sort of in their, in their tweets, Sam is, is saying this is such a great outcome, you know, we're gonna be united with this world class firm. And CZ is like, oh no, no, no, no. Like this, this deal is extremely like subject to us getting in there and looking at stuff and like really trying to walk it back. And once they did get in there and start looking at FTX books, they bailed immediately By Wednesday, Binance had pulled out,

0 (12m 41s):
Did his rival over at Binance have any sense of this? When he implied that he would maybe buy FTX

5 (12m 49s):
Was a version of the story that is conspiratorial, which is that cz either heard something or frankly smelled some blood in the water or just wanted to put some blood in the water. And he knew that by, by dumping this token, he would, you know, raise a lot of doubts about FTX solvency and, and could potentially buy his rival on the cheap. I don't actually buy that theory because this is incredibly bad for the entire industry and CZ is smart enough to have seen where this was going to end. You know, there is a reason that airlines don't compete on safety. They compete on a lot of things, but they don't compete on safety. And that is because if a, if a Delta plane crashes, that's not a good day for United Airlines.

5 (13m 31s):
People don't fly united cuz they think they're less likely to crash, they stop flying. And so I, I do not buy the theory that this was all orchestrated by CZ to take down arrival, but there are plenty of people on the internet who do

0 (13m 44s):
It sounds like a very tumultuous, if not like the worst week for crypto ever. Where does it end?

5 (13m 51s):
So buy, I mean it hasn't ended yet. So Binance pulls outta the deal on Wednesday, on Thursday, Sam Bankman free goes on Twitter and has this long thread, the gist of which he starts by saying, I fucked up and then has like a lot of sort of financial tap dancing about we thought we had this much money and it turns out we didn't. But but never gives like a plausible explanation for where it went. He's tweeting through it, right? Like his world is just utterly collapsing around him and he's, he's tweeting through it. FTX has filed for bankruptcy in federal court and that will be a pretty traditional process of figuring out where the money went and how much is left and who it's owed to.

5 (14m 33s):
I should say Sam Bankman Freed has not been indicted, he has not filed for bankruptcy. I would imagine that one or both of those things is probably going to eventually happen. None of that has happened yet.

0 (14m 48s):
More with Liz Hoffman in just a minute on today. Explain

5 (15m 0s):
This season uncover story. He's

21 (15m 3s):
The most articulate, he's the most savvy, he's very cunning.

5 (15m 6s):
It seemed like the perfect story, a kind that only comes around once or twice in a journalist career. Like

21 (15m 12s):
He's very, very, it's why he destroys everybody

5 (15m 16s):
Out in the woods of Montana. One billionaire was creating his own world also. He could hide something truly despicable. Have you heard of girls being like followed?

22 (15m 26s):
Is that something you've experienced?

5 (15m 28s):
At least that's what we were told.

23 (15m 31s):
You ask if I consider him a friend or if he's someone I trust. Both are absolutely yes, I would trust him with my life.

5 (15m 43s):
This season on cover story, what actually happened,

24 (15m 47s):
It happens once in everybody's life and this guy is a master liar, master liar.

5 (15m 53s):
Cover story season two, seed money. Listen wherever you get your podcasts.

25 (16m 2s):
Hey, I'm Jolyn Hill, I'm a producer here at Fox and if you're anything like me, you know that news moves really quickly, especially during an election, whether it's the polling,

26 (16m 15s):
We're asking a lot more of political polling than it is able to give us

25 (16m 20s):
Ballot initiatives.

5 (16m 22s):
Abortion is the most obvious one here. Like, it's like, well there's the most ballot measures ever. And it's like, well yeah, because you know, there's no longer a bedrock supreme court protection that really limits what states and voters can do

25 (16m 35s):
Or the issue on voters' minds

22 (16m 37s):
Fair is a huge motivator for voters and maybe a more effective one than trying to get them enthusiastic about a particular politician's policy platform.

25 (16m 47s):
Things are happening fast and the weeds is here to slow you down with smart in-depth conversations about the policies, the politics, and the information you need ahead of the midterms. You can find the weeds wherever you get your podcasts. New episodes drop every Tuesday

0 (17m 13s):
Today. Explain Sean Ram back with Liz Hoffman from SE for Liz. I think a lot of people out in the world who aren't investing in crypto feel like it's all smoke mirrors and far too wild of a west. And this story sort of confirms it. But you're telling us that these are like the two biggest players in crypto. How is this all so fake?

5 (17m 36s):
It is like a tale as old as finance. This is exactly what happened with Lehman Brothers in 2000. It strip out the, the wallets and the tokens and the weird crypto jargon. This is exactly what happened with Lehman Brothers. When

27 (17m 48s):
Lehman Brothers collapsed, 26,000 employees lost their jobs and millions of investors lost all or almost all of their money triggering a chain reaction that produced the worst financial crisis and economic downturn in 70 years.

5 (18m 3s):
It's exactly what happened with Washington Mutual.

28 (18m 6s):
WAMU didn't just make loans that were likely to fail, creating hardship for borrowers and risk for the bank. It also built a conveyor belt that fed those toxic loans and mortgages into the financial system like a polluter dumping poison into a river.

5 (18m 23s):
That's exactly what happened in 1929, which is that people got out over their skis, there was a, a loss of confidence in the system and it was a run on the bank. You know, no financial institution has their customer's money in a lockbox. That's not how it works. They lend it out, they invest in things, but there's all these rules that try to keep them on the rails. They're supposed to have a certain amount like on hand that if you showed up at the bank tomorrow and said, I'd like my deposits back, they would give it to you. If they couldn't, that would spark a massive panic. And that's basically what happened here. It's a little less clear where the money went and if there's underlying criminality, but the way that this unraveled is just very basic financial stuff, which is why this story is interesting to me because again, crypto bro claimed to be like living outside of the system.

5 (19m 11s):
Like you're a bunch of schmucks, you're being lied to and used by the man and we are creating this brand new financial system from the ground up that will be egalitarian and utopian and it'll be great.

29 (19m 24s):
I think the most beautiful thing about it is there's no one person setting the direction and there's no one person on the other side that can stop it,

5 (19m 33s):
But like there is no escape velocity, gravity still applies and they got taken down by a very basic problem, which is that they ran out of money. I wanna be careful here because no one has been accused of a crime, but the reporting that's emerged is that they just took their customer's money and put it in their own pocket. It's a little more complicated than that, but that they lost money speculating on crypto. And rather than just own up to it and eat the loss, they said, Well we have all of this customer money over here in the exchange. All of these people bought tokens from us and it's just sitting there. What if we took, it solved our trading loss, but we're making so much money that we'll be able to pay them back and no one will ever notice.

5 (20m 15s):
And that is the moment that this started to unravel because you think you can stay on this treadmill and it works as long as everything is going up and everyone is making money, no cracks start to emerge. No one like pokes too closely at it, but cz, when he went to sell this, that was the crack and that took out the entire house of cards.

0 (20m 34s):
And you're comparing this to Lehman Brothers and, and Washington Mutual, which is to say, the great recession, who gets screwed here and how screwed do they get?

5 (20m 42s):
There's two buckets of people who get screwed and they both get screwed pretty badly. I mean like an an analogy that might be helpful here is like I, I'm like a child of the eighties and nineties, like Chucky cheese and you would give them money, you would buy tokens when you walked in the door and then you like use tokens for all kinds of fun stuff at Chucky Cheese. And when you left, if you had tokens left, you could give them back and they would give you some money back.

19 (21m 4s):
Right? Now when mom buys sporty game tokens at Chucky cheeses, we'll give you 40 more of a breeze. It's double token time. Double the games, double the

5 (21m 13s):
Fun, right? If you had a bunch of to, you were like a superpower user of Chucky cheese, you've kept a bunch of your net worth in Chucky cheese tokens cuz you'd go there all the time. If Chucky cheese went bankrupt, you would lose a lot of money cuz you're holding all of these, these tokens that you had sort of intended to use in the system or to exchange for cash and they're worthless. That is the people who bought FTX tokens. So crypto grows, right? Largely outside the US I should say. And the other group are the people who own Chuck E. Cheese, right? These are FTX investors and they had raised money from like a who's who of Silicon Valley. These big venture capital firms, one of whom, you know, Sequoia last week had invested in this at evaluation of 32 billion, wrote down a stake to zero.

5 (21m 55s):
Wow. So they will lose money. Their investors are pension funds and university endowment. So there is, there is some knock on effect here. I don't wanna belittle the losses that real investors are gonna take. That said, I don't think this is like a contagion, I don't think this spills over into the the broader economy. And in part because like by design crypto was not plugged into the economy. The crypto entrepreneurs were so disdainful of the traditional economy and the traditional financial system that they largely live outside of it. The thing about Lehman is that, and you know, AIG and, and those firms in 2008 is that they were incredibly plugged into the regular financial system in ways that people didn't appreciate.

5 (22m 40s):
Everyone was like, oh, AIG is just like an investment bank. They're doing their wall streety stuff. But no, it turns out they had, you know, depositors and customers like all over the financial system. Everything was massively intertwined. There was a ton of debt. And so when the thread got pulled, the entire sweater unraveled.

30 (22m 56s):
This is the largest bankruptcy in the world. What were the effects? The effects were the financial disaster that we are living our way through right now. And who got hurt? Everybody got hurt. The entire economy has suffered from the fall of Lehman Brothers. So the whole world. Yes, the whole world.

5 (23m 14s):
I don't see that happening here. I do think, you know, we're talking a lot about crypto winter. I think this is probably a crypto ice age that's coming and people will lose money and the entire industry to the extent you think it has some long term value, I'm like still sort of agnostic about that. I, I don't know, this is a very bad day for that.

0 (23m 32s):
Do we think the government's paying attention to this? Is there a chance that crypto becomes more regulated as a result of this massive fallout?

5 (23m 40s):
Yes, and I think the government really wishes they had paid more attention a year ago. This was a little bit of a jump ball in, in Washington DC it was a little unclear like who was supposed to be looking at it because, you know, there's one school of thought which is like, no, this is just like a stock or a bond by another name. It's, it's, it should be regulated like any security that you would buy or sell. The other one is like, it's like more like gold or like cattle. Like it's a little more of a commodity. No one can really figure out what it was. And so the upshot is that it just wasn't very heavily regulated.

16 (24m 11s):
If I buy Bitcoin, am I buying a share of stock or am I buying a pork belly or am I buying a euros or am I buying, are you buying air? Oh wow, okay, you're going in, what is it I'm going in? Yeah, what is it? Because

5 (24m 27s):
That's, there were certain things you couldn't do. You couldn't market tokens to US investors, which is why most of Ft X's clients were, were abroad. But I, I think there's a very good argument who me, that that regulators were, were asleep at the switch, very slow to act. I think that will change very quickly.

0 (24m 45s):
How do you think crypto recovers from this moment where, I don't know, it kind of felt like it was confirmed that the emperor indeed didn't have any clothes

5 (24m 56s):
Emperor extremely naked. There's a chance that it doesn't.

0 (25m 1s):
Oh,

5 (25m 1s):
There is an argument to be made that there is fundamentally value in the technology. That the financial system, that it is just incredibly inefficient and that it's just like dumb and relies on a lot of paper and a lot of trust and that you could build a more efficient kind of trustless system where the, the code did the jobs that, you know, hundreds of thousands of people in the financial system do. I think there's some value in that and I think that the underlying technology will probably continue to exist and evolve here. I'm not sure that there is any need for like these goofy tokens.

19 (25m 35s):
Free tokens won't last forever. So remember Chuck Mays.

5 (25m 40s):
So there are some like good pieces of the technology and I think those will be fine. You know, go back to 2001. Like a lot of the dumb.com companies got washed out, but like it laid the foundations of fiber optic cables and broadband and e-commerce and you know, Amazon was the winner there. But eventually someone will come in and look at the wreckage and say, you know what, these are the good pieces. I'm willing to put some real institutional grownup money behind it and they'll start to rebuild.

0 (26m 17s):
Liz Hoffman, se four miles Bryan, Amanda Luellen, Matthew Colette, Paul Robert Mosey, Sean Rams from today explained,

7 (26m 53s):
How far would you go to live longer and live better? Chris Hemsworth is putting that question into the test in the new Disney plus original series Limitless with Chris Hemsworth teaming up with the world's leading longevity experts watches. Chris pushes his body and mind to their absolute limits, putting his own life on the line to find out how we can all live longer, healthier lives. From National Geographic Academy Award nominee Darren Aronofsky and Utopia Limitless with Chris Hemsworth is streaming November 16th only on Disney Plus.

31 (27m 27s):
This podcast is supported by Pole Star and the Pole Star two, the design focused electric performance car. The Polestar two matches performance and technology using sustainable materials. 100% electric. With all wheel drive Polestar can accelerate from zero to 60 in just 4.2 seconds, which means the shift to sustainable future may be faster than you think. Drive in style with the inspired minimal design of l e d headlights that give Polestar a unique look. This is an electric vehicle unlike any other. The premium interior features a spacious feel thanks to the panoramic glass roof and ride. Stay comfortable for all with heated seats and steering wheel.

31 (28m 9s):
Stay connected by using the Hands-free center display, powered by Google to seamlessly use your favorite apps. Pure Design, Pure performance Polestar. You can design yours and book a test drive@polestar.com.