0 (1s):
The Oscar nominations are around the corner, which means we're in peak Oscar campaign season. And there's one movie waging a campaign that's unlike any other. It's called r r r. It's an anti-colonial Indian epic. They're singing, there's dancing, but there's also some of the most audacious action you will ever see on a screen. Seriously, it puts the Fast Furious franchise to shame. But there's another thing that sets this movie apart. Critics seem to see it two different ways. Take this headline from npr.

2 (38s):
If you haven't been back to the movies yet, Indian Epic, r r r is the reason

0 (43s):
To go. And compared to this headline from Slate, a wild Indian blockbuster is ravishing movie fans, but they're missing its troubling subtext. We're gonna try and get to the bottom of the troubling subtext bit on this here episode of today explained

3 (1m 1s):
James Juan produced the hit horror film, Megan, he made the saw movies, he made the conjuring, and he can see horror everywhere

4 (1m 11s):
At nighttime. If I hear something or I go somewhere and I think that they may be someone out there, I actually go, hello, is someone there?

2 (1m 21s):
I've

4 (1m 22s):
Actually found myself to have done that.

3 (1m 24s):
James won on. Why? We always want to be Scared. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast,

2 (1m 37s):
It's the new year, and for some that means resolutions to eat healthy food and get in shape. You've probably heard the standard advice to lose weight, eat fewer calories than you burn. But we at Gastropod wanted to know, is a calorie a calorie no matter what food it comes from, and is one calorie for you the same as one for me to find out? We visit the rooms where calories are measured and the labs where scientists are proving that the numbers on our food labels are off sometimes by quite a bit. So is the calorie broken. Find Gastropod unsubscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

5 (2m 19s):
My face hurt because without knowing it, I was just grinning ear to ear because I had never seen anything like this film. And my old

0 (2m 29s):
Today explain Sean Ram. This episode doesn't need a disclaimer, but R Rrr has one. If you try to watch it on Netflix, it goes like this.

6 (2m 39s):
The story of this film has been set in the backdrop of pre independent India and is purely fictional. The character is portrayed in this movie. The geographical area is depicted. The incidents shown costumes, dances, linguistic dialects, and cultural attributes are fictional. This film, apart from showcasing the culture and geography of India, doesn't imitate or imply any person, whether living or dead doesn't indicate any race, cast, creed or tribe. Any resemblance whatsoever is purely coincidental. The producer, the director, or the technicians of this movie have no intention whatsoever of hurting anyone's sentiments or disrespecting any traditions or maligning the beliefs of any individual or group.

0 (3m 21s):
That's a pretty hefty piece of reading to get through before three hours and seven minutes of singing, dancing, action. And who are we kidding? More reading of subtitles. But the real reason the disclaimer feels so out of place is because RRR is just so fun. It's about these two dudes, Roger and Beam, who are on a quest to redefine bromance.

7 (3m 43s):
We will be best friend forever and ever.

0 (3m 46s):
These bros are loosely based on real Indian freedom fighters who are never actually friends in the movie. Beam is this sweet guy from a small Indian village who just happens to have superhuman strength and agility. Raju is this more serious dude climbing the military ranks who just happens to have superhuman strength and agility. And then there's the British.

8 (4m 8s):
I want this bastard punished in such a way that no person will ever rise up against the British.

9 (4m 15s):
Oh, I want to watch it darling. I want to see him bleed.

8 (4m 21s):
And so you shall

0 (4m 22s):
The Brits are portrayed a little more on the subhuman side. The whole movie is basically about sticking it to the Brits as hard as one possibly can, but no one seems particularly mad about that.

10 (4m 33s):
It is a very, very fun, just wild watch. But it is definitely representative, I think of a rather pernicious strain of Indian culture and politics right now. That being the very open Hindu nationalism that has pervaded the country over the past eight years since Prime Minister Nadi took power.

0 (4m 58s):
Nait Pua writes for Slate. He wrote that one article I mentioned at the top of the show. The one titled A Wild Indian Blockbuster is Ravishing Movie fans, but they're missing its troubling subtext.

10 (5m 10s):
What I found interesting about R R R was just like the number of different elements of Hindu nationalism that interplayed in here. There is definitely very much a sort of demeaning of the indigenous tribe in the movie the Gs, they're kind of shown to be just like these simple-minded animal whispers who like only care about fighting the British, insofar as it is protecting their own community and not doing anything else for the country at large.

7 (5m 44s):
I'm fighting just formally, but he fighting for our country. I understand

0 (5m 58s):
This was Beam the villager with superhuman strength and agility. He spends the first part of the movie pretending to be Muslim, which might feel kind of random. If you know nothing about India, and if you do know something about India may be less random.

10 (6m 11s):
The use of the gone character beams, Muslim disguise as part of his foray into finding the gone girl who's kidnapped. But then him like immediately downplaying that fact. Later on when he confesses his real identity, first thing he says, I'm not a Muslim.

7 (6m 32s):
I not tell you everything about me. I not I, I'm not a Muslim, I'm from Corn Tribe.

10 (6m 42s):
And throughout the rest of the film there's like no representation of Muslims at all. So I just find that choice of disguise and then like rhetoric there to be a little interesting. And then you also have this very castes angle throughout where Raju, the main character who's embedded within the British, this is Superman on steroids. I don't know a better way to put it. There are plenty of fight scenes throughout the movie where he assumes like a very god-like form, like he's wearing like a bow and arrow the same way that like many old reincarnations of the God Vishnu have appeared in a Hindu mythology.

10 (7m 36s):
You know, you have like the, the bare chest, the facial hair, just the ultra masculine ideal of a godly God-fearing human.

12 (7m 51s):
We won't run anymore. We'll make you run.

10 (7m 56s):
And you see him throughout, as always elevated above his purported partner Beam. Beam is only on a mission really to rescue this girl, but RA is seen throughout as like, oh, this guy all along was trying to play this long game to save all of India's people. He did this because he wanted to arm them and get them to save themselves.

12 (8m 28s):
I made a promise to my father that I would get everyone a weapon.

10 (8m 33s):
And at the very end of the movie, when like all is sudden done, you see Beam, you know, begging him like, teach me your ways.

12 (8m 41s):
Be you helped us achieve our dream, inspired me to keep fighting for my cause. What can I do for you?

7 (8m 51s):
Be my teacher.

10 (8m 52s):
And that strikes me as like an incredibly demeaning depiction of a supposedly equal indigenous character. And again, I don't think that's a coincidence.

0 (9m 6s):
A lot of the controversy and the curious choices you're pointing out right now are subtle enough that you could almost miss them if you're just waiting for the next big action sequence or or song. But there's one thing I feel like you cannot miss, which is the end credits of this movie.

10 (9m 32s):
Yeah. At the end of the movie you see this sort of final song and dance with a Raju beam. They show like this gallery sort of, of a few different Indian independence fighters from, again, like the more early century era of activism. In a similar vein, as we see with Raju Beam in the film is like these were people who were not afraid to raise their fists against the British Empire or their guns or other weapons. What I find interesting about this choice is that in keeping with what I mentioned about the the Muslim representation dynamic in this film, there are no Muslim freedom fighters represented here.

10 (10m 24s):
There are no indigenous freedom fighters represented in there either, even though there were plenty of them, including the real life beam. And I think the most defining image of Indian independence just about all around the world is it's Gandhi, it's nonviolence, it's <unk>

0 (10m 43s):
Yeah, interestingly enough, the most famous Indian freedom fighter not included,

10 (10m 50s):
Right? And like, I can't help but think of the fact of like Gandhi's absence from this gallery as being a part of a general trend in Hindu nationalism right now. So first off, you see a lot of nationalists praising Gandhi's assassin <unk> who was a member of the rss, the Hindu Nationalist Paramilitary, which came up during colonial times and has given birth to a lot of organizations and political parties who have huge influence today.

13 (11m 28s):
Prime Minister Narendra Modi rose to Powell with the help of a nationalist volunteer movement known as the rss, which Applicates hardline Hindu nationalism.

10 (11m 39s):
And then you also have a lot of these Hindu nationalists basically trying to erase the memory of Duru

14 (11m 48s):
Laro chief minister of his country since India became independent in 1947. From

15 (11m 52s):
The beginning to the end, the struggle for independence was led by the Indian National Congress party. Gandhi was its guiding light naru its chief organizer

10 (12m 4s):
Viewed in that light, seeing the absence of Gandhi and Naru from that list of freedom fighters. I I, I don't think that's a coincidence.

0 (12m 14s):
They might sound like wet blankets here talking about why this deeply enjoyable fun movie is controversial. Why does any of this matter?

10 (12m 23s):
I'm not saying that Rrr is going to like incite people, you know, to riot in the streets or whatever, but it is part and parcel of what the Hindu Nationalist project wants to do, which is normalize their views across the globe. And I think people should just be aware if, you know, they're watching and enjoying this movie. Like, I'm not for censorship. I am not for like, you know, just automatically discounting any work of art because as a different ideology. But people should be aware of the context, especially in a time right now when Indu nationalism is a bigger domestic and global threat than it ever has been before.

0 (13m 11s):
So you're not saying boycott r r r, you're saying maybe watch Rrr and then seek out an article that was written by someone who knows something about politics and conveniently you've written one such article. Sure,

10 (13m 25s):
Yeah. I'll always welcome to

0 (13m 39s):
All jokes aside that thing Naish said about Hindu nationalism being a threat is real. We reached out to a bunch of Indian academics to talk about the broader influence of the Indian government on culture and a lot of them didn't want to go on the record with us, the one who did joins us when we're back on today explained

10 (14m 10s):
Music pop quiz time. Can you identify these three sounds? That's an 8 0 8. It's made by pitching and distorting the sound of a kick drum. And it's now replaced bass guitar in countless pop records from Drake to Kim Petris. Okay, number two, that's a vocal chop, a short sample of a singer cut up drenched in reverb and made totally ubiquitous through the hands of EDM producers like Skrillex. All right, last one. That's a Reese space. It's a sludgy synthesized baseline created by producer Kevin Reese Sanderson in 1988. You can hear it in genres like Jungle Drum and Bass UK garage. And it's even featured all over Taylor Swift's latest record.

10 (14m 52s):
The sounds of popular music are always evolving. If you want to be able to know all of its sounds, the Switched on Pop podcast will break it down for you. I'm Charlie Harding, the co-host of Switched On Pop. And if you can name this sound, honestly, you should come on the show and tell us about it. Switched on Pop comes out every Tuesday, wherever you get podcasts.

17 (15m 13s):
Hi, I'm John Glenn Hill and I'm the new host of The Weeds, a podcast from Vox, all about politics and policy. Our mission is to take deep dives into policies shaping our world, everything from crypto regulation to immigration to climate change. And this week for my first official episode in the host chair, we're firing up the weeds time machine. And taking a trip back to 1965,

18 (15m 40s):
Today is a triumph for freedom, as huge as any victory that's ever been won on any battlefield.

17 (15m 49s):
To talk about one of the most significant pieces of civil rights legislation in US history, the Voting Rights Act, and with questions swirling around election integrity and the future of American democracy, we figured there's no time like the present to look back on it. Subscribe to the weeds for new episodes every Tuesday.

12 (16m 16s):
Salsa flamenco, my brother. Do you know Desch?

19 (16m 23s):
What's Desi notch

0 (16m 25s):
Today? Explained his back before we parted ways. Nait essentially said C R R R, but try to understand the context. So here's some context. The first thing you should know is that R R R comes from Hollywood, not Bollywood. India's so big there's room for multiple hubs in its film industry, but Bollywood's so much bigger and it gets way more attention from the government in India. And, and let's talk more about that government. The ruling political party is the bjp. They've been in power since 2014. And the BJP under Prime Minister Nore Modi is right wing Hindu Nationalist.

20 (17m 1s):
It's perspective is that India is a majority Hindu country and hence it's the interests of Hindus that need to be preeminent. This

0 (17m 11s):
Is Professor Taje gunk, NYU anthropology.

20 (17m 15s):
It, it's in contrast to what I would say is the historical perspective of when India gets independence from Britain In 1947, India constitutionally set out to be a secular democratic republic. In fact, the BJP talks about secularism as being pseudo secular because in the Indian context, what secularism means is not necessarily the, what we think of in the US as separation of church and state. What secularism means in the Indian context is that all religions need to have equal importance and respect. So it's not about the absence of religion in public life, it's about the fact that all religions can have like a place at the table.

0 (17m 58s):
And this isn't just talk from the bjp, I mean this sort of Hindu nationalist ideology in India has actually turned violent in the past years. Now

20 (18m 9s):
It has turned extremely violent

21 (18m 11s):
Rights. Organizations have documented mass graves torture and extrajudicial killings carried out by the Indian armed forces. Laws against slaughtering cattle anticon conversion legislation and bans on headscarves have legitimized discrimination against religious minorities, especially Muslims. I

20 (18m 26s):
Would say with the rise to power since 2014, we have seen in India very brazen and concerted acts of violence against Muslims as well as against lower casts and marginalized, you know, cast communities. And what I mean by brazen, you know, often the supporters of the BJ p or of their, they have many different militant groups, they can carry out acts of violence with impunity knowing that nothing's going to happen to them.

0 (18m 58s):
So how is this predominant Hindu nationalist ideology playing out in Indian cinema?

20 (19m 4s):
I would say there's like two main strands. One has to do with the impact on the film industry and filmmaking itself. And the other has to do with the themes of the films. So there's a few concrete ways that the government at the center, the federal government is exerting its influence. One is all films in order to be released theatrically, have to be certified by the central Board of Film certification, which everyone shortens to calling it the sensor board. They see the films and we, they give them a rating, but in order to give them a rating, they also mandate cuts. But who gets to be a sensor?

20 (19m 44s):
Who gets to be on that board? Those are political appointees. So every time the government changes at the center, the people in the center board change. So with the BJP government at the center, of course, you know, it's very likely that you'll have a lot of people who are allied or sympathizers or you know, who agree with the certain ideology who would be put in place. The other ways that the government has been coming after, say, Bollywood over the last few years, some of the directors or actors who may have spoken out maybe comment upon, for example, incidents of violence.

22 (20m 22s):
Our country, we keep on talking about religion, we are gonna go back to the dark ages. There is nothing, there is nothing less important than religious intolerance.

20 (20m 31s):
When people have been critical that way, some of these directors or actors or writers suddenly like the income tax bureau, it's like, we're gonna raid your home. We think you're like hiding money from us. So that's another concrete way. And then the last one, which really emerged in 2020 during the kind of beginnings of the pandemic, so like the summer of 2020, is that there was this whole quote, Bollywood drug scandal that erupted across the national media.

23 (20m 58s):
The son of the Bollywood superstar, SHA Khan has arrived home in Mumbai after spending more than three weeks in jail in an alleged drugs case.

20 (21m 7s):
It wasn't really based in any sort of evidence, this really had to do with some people saying, oh, Bollywood is just like invested with drugs and, and people who use. And so suddenly that started a whole series of investigations and, and everything was pretty flimsy evidence. It's like, oh, look at this photo on Twitter of everyone sitting around at a party. You know, maybe they're using something, you know? And so these are very, very concrete ways that the government has been going after the film industry.

0 (21m 39s):
Okay. So it ranges from, from censorship to maybe you'll be investigated by the tax bureau to even straight up like drug raids and, and and, and conspiracies, which sounds like it, it, it's no joke. How is this predominant ideology, this Hindu nationalism playing out in the movies themselves? You mentioned themes earlier.

20 (22m 2s):
Yes, there's a interest in eras of Indian history where it's often some ostensible Hindu king who was fighting off, you know, the Muslim invader, right? So like this notion of a historical time period where Muslims are constantly being portrayed as the invaders <unk>. And I, and I have to say that's also a really important part of Hindu nationalist ideology is kind of reframing Indian history as one of constant invasion and conflict, right?

20 (22m 45s):
Because if you actually speak to, you know, academic historians, they'll point out that the history of India itself is very complex and you can't think of, and also the borders of what we now think of as India, were not the same borders a thousand years ago, right? So you have this very anachronistic idea of quote people coming in from somewhere in invading, you know, so there's that. So the theme, so certain kinds of historical films, Hmm. Also a greater attention to war films, often focusing on the, on conflicts between India and Pakistan. And then finally, this is not as, there's not been as many films of this nature, but I feel like the fact that certain historical figures who may have been taboo earlier, people are thinking about making films about them.

20 (23m 39s):
So one is, for example, the the man who assassinated <unk> <unk>, you know, a film where he's featured prominently like that would not have been done 20 years ago. No one would've thought about making a film about him.

0 (24m 1s):
So how should we think about a movie like R r R in this context? Because there's this incredible opportunity here to turn American audiences and international audiences onto the incredible cinema in India. But at the same time, you're saying ongoing in India cinema is this effort to change what these movies are about and who gets to be in them?

20 (24m 23s):
I think I would think about in two ways. The first is that the fact of r r r success, given the type of film it is, it is an unabashedly mainstream film that, you know, celebrates everything that has been a part of popular Indian cinema for decades. So aesthetically it's not watered down for a global audience. And so I am intrigued by its global reception. Indian cinema always had large audiences. It's now, I think the fact that it's being celebrated in the US is seen as like, wow, here's, you know, here's this new opportunity that we can try to build upon. What I do get troubled by is that whenever you have something that successful, and it's also seems successful in a global sense, everyone worries about like, is this just gonna start this new trend?

20 (25m 12s):
And so I guess the fear becomes, because the BJP is so invested in cultural nationalism, cultural production, you know, they'll make it easier for people to make films like that. And maybe other sorts of storytelling, other sorts of narratives. It's not that people won't make them, but maybe they'll become more difficult.

0 (25m 39s):
But ultimately Indian cinema predates the bjp.

20 (25m 42s):
Yes, yes, definitely predates the bjp. And I and I and I have faith in, you know, in the storytellers there's a lot of voices and I think that there's many more opportunities for those voices to be heard these days because everything doesn't rely on a theatrical release. I think with the explosion of media and the digital platforms, we actually do have a chance to be able to see a greater diversity of perspectives and viewpoints and stories.

1 (26m 18s):
Professor

0 (26m 19s):
Ta Gunk teaches people about people at nyu. Amanda Lou Ellen produced our episode today, Laura Bullard Fact Checked it, and a theme Shapiro Mixed and Mastered. This is today Explained.