1 (3s):
Up until just a few days ago. Title 42 was the Law of the Land on the US Mexico border.

2 (8s):
Yeah. So Title 42 was the Pandemic Era Rule started during the Trump Administration in March, 2020 when Covid 19 had just sort of begun hitting the US that prevented border authorities from holding migrants in quote unquote congregant settings.

3 (24s):
Tonight again, at midnight, we will execute the CDC order by immediately returning individuals arriving without documentation to Canada, Mexico, as well as a number of other countries without delay.

1 (35s):
Title 42 was divisive as hell. Immigration advocates hated it. Lawmakers who wanted to circumvent us asylum policies loved it. But Title 42 was a pandemic era rule. It was never gonna last forever, and it expired on Thursday. So what now, coming up on today explained,

4 (1m 0s):
There's this new show out all about an all powerful AI that has taken over the world, but it's not evil. It's actually very nice.

5 (1m 10s):
Every time we see a story about ai, it only has one idea, and that is to destroy humanity. We felt like the idea that was perhaps a little bit even more frightening was what if it just wanted to make us happy?

4 (1m 25s):
Damon Lindelof and Tara Hernandez on their series, Mrs. Davis, this week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast

6 (1m 37s):
This week on the weeds, hundreds of anti L LGBTQ bills have been introduced in state legislatures across the country, the vast majority targeting trans rights.

7 (1m 48s):
This care is actually already without these laws. Incredibly difficult to obtain even if you have a good job, even if you have good insurance. And I think that people skip over that and lawmakers certainly do. They make it sound like you just get it at your corner store.

6 (2m 3s):
I'm John Glenn Hill, host of The Weeds, a podcast all about the policies that shape our lives. New episodes drop every Wednesday. Find it wherever you get your podcasts

8 (2m 21s):
Today. Explained

1 (2m 26s):
Lauren via ground has been reporting on the US Mexico border for the better part of two decades currently for the El Paso Times and USA Today Network. We asked her, what's up now that Title 40 two's over and done with.

2 (2m 40s):
I mean, to everyone's surprise, not a heck of a lot. You know, before Title 42 ended last Thursday, we had about two weeks of heavily increased migration to El Paso through El Paso.

9 (2m 54s):
At dawn, the migrants covered in blankets stretched for blocks. And tonight El Paso is under a state of emergency because city officials say they don't have enough resources to handle this.

2 (3m 5s):
And it was really hectic here. And we had, you know, a bonafide humanitarian crisis on the streets of El Paso for about two weeks. But since Title 42 has ended, it's been quiet

1 (3m 18s):
With Title 42 out. The new Law of the Land is actually the old one. Title eight.

2 (3m 24s):
Yeah, Sean. So I can tell you what I understand the policies are, but how they end up getting applied in border patrol sectors like El Paso, like the Rio Grande Valley, Yuma, or San Diego remains to be seen. Title eight is the Nation's immigration law. Okay? And it contains everything. It's got a pathway for asylum, but it also has civil and criminal penalties. Like for example, expedited removal with a five year ban on entering again, you know, through any lawful means. It includes criminal penalties, a 1325 misdemeanor for crossing illegally, a 1326 felony federal felony for reentering the country illegally.

2 (4m 12s):
And in the old days, by old days, I mean pre 2020, you know, we saw criminal prosecution of migrants skyrocket. It rose through, you know, from George W. Bush through Obama, and then skyrocketed again under Trump. And really what we ended up with during that period of heavy criminal prosecution of migrants, we ended up with family separation. And that was something that we know the American public just couldn't stomach this idea that we were going to prosecute everybody, including adults traveling with children. And that was a period when the Trump administration began separating children from their parents.

2 (4m 54s):
But the fact of the matter is, is that criminal prosecution is part of Title eight, and Secretary Alejandro Myorca of Homeland Security has said,

10 (5m 2s):
If anyone arrives at our southern border after midnight tonight, they will be presumed ineligible for asylum and subject to steeper consequences for unlawful entry, including a minimum five year ban on re-entry and potential criminal prosecution.

2 (5m 20s):
All this boils down to the devil being in the details in border patrol sectors that have limited resources.

1 (5m 30s):
Do we have any idea how many people tried to enter the United States in the lead up to Title 42 expiring last week?

2 (5m 39s):
Yeah, I mean, it was thousands. I can tell you that here in El Paso, at one point we had 3,300 people living in unhoused homeless conditions in downtown El Paso. And the vast majority had crossed illegally, meaning sneaking through holes cut in the floodgates of Trump's border fence. Hmm. And what we've seen repeatedly over the past six months were people who couldn't access the CBP one app because it keeps crashing, or it's freezing, or it's not, it's kicking them out. Customs

11 (6m 16s):
And Border Protection launched a new app in hopes to expedite the process for asylum seekers. Almost immediately, migrant advocates found some issues including sending migrants to asylum interviews more than 1500 miles away.

2 (6m 30s):
And they basically got impatient and they crossed illegally, you know, through holes in the border wall, over the border wall and, and ended up on the streets of El Paso and NGOs and the city and the county have their hands tied in some ways in terms of helping people. Because of the way the federal funding is dispersed, there's a stipulation in a stream of FEMA funding that requires that NGOs or cities and counties along the border who are doing this humanitarian work, if they are audited, they have to prove that the people that they were serving crossed lawfully. Basically, one of the ways to prove that is that someone has what is called by the government a quote unquote alien identification number or an A number.

2 (7m 15s):
But we know that in El Paso last week and over the winter, and again late last summer, there were many, many people who ended up on the street seeking refuge who had crossed illegally and didn't have in possession that a number. So, you know, border communities are really between a rock and a hard place in the sense that organizations like the local food bank want to feed anyone who's hungry, but they can only be reimbursed for helping migrants who crossed lawfully.

1 (7m 45s):
Well, we've been talking this whole time, Lauren, about what's going on at the border in the lower United States, but tell me what things look like on the other side of the border in Mexico right now.

2 (7m 57s):
Yeah, so you know, si La Juez and other Mexican border cities are not easy places for migrants. I love Si La Juez, you know, I cross the border. But one thing is to be a local or a resident or a US citizen and have that ability to crisscross the border. And it's quite another thing to be in a city as rife with organized crime as Juez is, as a vulnerable migrant who's a target of criminal organizations, cartels, who doesn't have any resources. And you know, Mexico has not made it easy for people to integrate into society or to work.

2 (8m 39s):
You know, there've been different periods of migration. We saw waves of Cubans arrive, we saw waves of Haitians arrived, and they were able to access the ability to work or seek some kind of refuge in Mexico for a short time while they waited for an opportunity to come into the us. And the migrants that we're seeing right now over the last six months or so, don't have the same level of resources. Some of those earlier demographics, they've got family members in Miami are in New York or all over the United States who can help support them with US dollars sent to Mexico. The Venezuelans, for example, don't have that.

2 (9m 18s):
They don't have that long history of migration to the United States. And so they're very much on their own. They're vulnerable, and they're taking risks that, that we haven't seen others take. Like what? Well, for example, crossing the border unlawfully and then just sitting downtown hoping for an opportunity to stay.

12 (9m 38s):
Families like Robert. Yes. Scary. And their four-year-old son, Jason from Venezuela, they tell us they've been here for eight days, you've been sleeping on this floor for eight days. They say they are desperate back home

2 (9m 50s):
Migrants who are crossing illegally trying to evade border patrol apprehension typically are in the hands of smugglers. They're trying to move into the interior of the United States. They don't believe they have a claim to stay. And in this case, you had this large group that was just so desperate that they crossed illegally and then just congregated around the Sacred Heart Catholic Church in downtown El Paso, Texas, around a homeless shelter. Knowing that border patrol is a longstanding policy of not arresting or apprehending people in the close vicinity of, of sanctuaries like a church or a school, for example,

1 (10m 30s):
Can I ask you how this current crisis and sort of chaotic situation compares to the ones you've seen in your two decades of reporting?

2 (10m 39s):
Oh my God, that's a big question, Sean. What, what's changed so much is the rhetoric in Washington where I think 20 years ago there may still have been some interest in building consensus or cooperation was still viewed as a virtue. You know, the last 15, you know, 10, 15 years, that's no longer the case. And I have the sneaking suspicion that for elected officials, for politicians in Washington, being in a constant state of border crisis is, you know, a motivator for their base.

2 (11m 23s):
And I, I think that's true of both parties in different ways. I mean, it must be right because we've not seen any substantial immigration reform since 1996, and that was a fairly small reform. The real big one goes back to 1986, you know, when I was a kid. So, you know, when we didn't have internet. So it's, I do think that that the level of humanitarian crisis is something that we didn't see 20 years ago because it was mostly adult males trying to cross the border seeking work. And since 2014 when we first started seeing unaccompanied children come to the border, and then 2016 and 2018 when you were seeing families, entire families, mothers, fathers, and their children, the border infrastructure is not set up to welcome them or create a safe place to review their claims and maybe a safe way to remove them if they don't have claims or you know, a safe way to welcome them in if they do.

2 (12m 33s):
It's a strictly law enforcement approach. And it does seem from a border perspective, you know, folks, Republicans and Democrats who live and work on the border see this issue in a completely different way than the rest of the country. It comes down to logistics. It comes down to the practical matters like feeding hungry people or getting children off the street. But really the devil is gonna come down to the details. How does you know one border patrol agent in a particular sector handle what he or she is faced with in terms of people crossing illegally or trying to make a claim and how they make that claim and where they make that claim, and how many people.

2 (13m 17s):
So we're in the middle of a massive transformation in border enforcement, and it's gonna take a few days or weeks to shake out

1 (13m 34s):
More with Lauren when we're back on today explained.

13 (13m 49s):
Hey folks, I'm Heather Cox Richardson.

14 (13m 51s):
And I'm Joanne Freeman.

13 (13m 53s):
We're the hosts of now and then a podcast from Cafe and the Vox Media podcast network that looks to the American past to make sense of our current political and cultural climate.

14 (14m 4s):
Recently we've traced the tangled history of the New York County District Attorney's office, the American cultural fascination with UFOs and our national love hate relationship with the banking industry.

13 (14m 15s):
Tune in each Wednesday as we make sense of the headlines and the long road to this crucial moment for democracy.

14 (14m 22s):
Listen for free wherever you get your podcasts

15 (14m 28s):
This week on the Vergecast. Why is it so hard to find director's commentary on streaming services?

16 (14m 34s):
I've been shouting about this on social media for a number of years. Streamers very, very easily could add one audio track that includes a commentary.

15 (14m 41s):
Why would you make a whole movie about Blackberry?

17 (14m 45s):
It's a product that is universally known in a way and almost known as a joke. And I thought this would be a great way for me to Trojan Horse, the way my friends and I make movies into a story that a general audience may be interested in seeing.

15 (14m 57s):
And how do you direct an entire feature length mystery film? All on computer screens?

18 (15m 3s):
Not one shot in the movie is screen recording, like everything is built custom pixel by pixel, basically,

15 (15m 9s):
This episode is all about making movies about tech and using tech to make movies. It's the director's episode of The Verge, and you can hear it anywhere you find podcasts.

1 (15m 30s):
Lauren, I think you've given us a vivid impression of what this crisis looks like at the US Mexico border, but as we've learned in recent years, this isn't just a crisis on the border, it's a crisis throughout the United States. What does this situation look like for the rest of the country?

2 (15m 46s):
You know, it's interesting when you think about the name of the community El Paso, it really means the pass. And most of the people who are arriving here, nearly all of them are on their way somewhere else. They're just passing through. And what's interesting about this latest group of people coming, and when I say latest, I mean like the last six months, especially, you know, the Venezuelan diaspora, they're headed to very specific places. New York City, for one, that's been the major destination for months. Chicago now is on that list, and so is Denver. And so, you know, you have a situation where you have a large group of people headed to a place where they may not know anyone.

2 (16m 28s):
And that's really different from past groups of migrants who often were migrating, whether it was for economic reasons or because they were fleeing persecution, they still had a destination in mind where they knew somebody. Maybe it was a sister or a cousin, someone who could receive them. And so this larger group of people who don't know anyone and who don't have any resources does create a new burden for cities in the interior.

1 (16m 58s):
Let's talk about New York City for a moment here, because you brought it up. New York City has these very distinct right to shelter laws. If you're a migrant there who needs shelter, you're gonna get it. But Mayor Adams is now reconsidering those laws and loosening them because he says they're just plain out of space.

19 (17m 17s):
New York cannot take more,

1 (17m 19s):
They're sending people up to Canada. And Canada's getting mad is the influx of migrants forcing so-called sanctuary cities to reconsider how much they can provide sanctuary.

2 (17m 31s):
So, you know, last year during the height of the busing program in Texas, where you had both governor Greg Abbott and also the city of El Paso providing kind of free, you know, taxpayer funded buses out of town, out of state, hundreds of people were headed for New York City. And we followed one family at the El Paso Times in USA Today, a Venezuelan family, a mother, a father, and their two young children to Manhattan. So it's four 15 in the morning and we are driving to the Port Authority in Manhattan where we expect the bus from El Paso to arrive in the next couple of hours. We'll be waiting where they ended up in, at the bus, a hotel room, you know, funded by the city.

2 (18m 18s):
They're relieved to have made it so far, but they don't know where they'll end up or what the conditions will be like. And they're still there. So that's October, November, December, January, February, March, April. It is now May. And they are still, and I'll say this stuck in a hotel room. Hmm. You know, it may sound great, okay, you've got a hotel room in in Times Square, but when you're talking about having two small children, no kitchen, it's not ideal. But they've also been working really, really hard. And of course it's still not enough to afford shelter in New York City. Hmm. So I think cities do need to think about what their policies are going to be.

2 (19m 0s):
But you know, Sean, it's interesting when you look at the number of people coming here, the Venezuelans specifically, you know, Colombia took in 2 million. Venezuelans, Peru took in, I think something like 1.5 million Venezuelans before anybody started heading here. So I think that cities are going to have to reevaluate how are we going to welcome people if we're going to welcome people and what that's gonna look like.

1 (19m 27s):
Of course, you know, we've seen Border Cities getting a lot of extra attention. In light of the end of Title 42, how are cities far from the border, be it New York, Chicago, Denver, feeling about the end of Title 42, is it something that's gonna affect them as well?

2 (19m 42s):
I don't think cities in the interior need to be worried about the end of Title 42 in part because you know, the influx that we saw in the lead up to the end of Title 42 is essentially over. So do we need to pay attention to how migrants respond to the new policies? Yes, we do. And from a policy perspective, again, I'm a journalist, I'm not a policymaker, but I would think that this would be a good time for cities to think about how they want to participate in America's immigration process, whether they want to participate in America's immigration process and what that ought to look like.

2 (20m 23s):
And you know, listeners, voters, Americans, those of us who care about immigration policy or who cover immigration policy or who watch the border, really ought to think about putting pressure on congressional representatives to take up the issue. You know, the Biden administration has taken a lot of steps recently as presidential administrations have done Republican and Democrat for the past 30 years. But at the end of the day, the things that they do that are executive decisions could be undone at the next election. Whereas if Congress acts, you're talking about a body that is supposed to come to some kind of consensus, some kind of political consensus, and those laws are the laws that will more likely last.

1 (21m 11s):
But you were telling us earlier in the conversation that there may be political incentives for Congress for both parties to not solve this problem because perhaps using migrants as a political CUDL is more effective for them. And, and we saw a great example of this last year when both Governor Greg Abbott in Texas and Governor Ron DeSantis in Florida were sending migrants to Martha's Vineyard or to New York City or to Washington DC on buses and planes. What did that accomplish, if anything, did that prove something to Massachusetts or to New York State or to Washington DC about what it's like at the border?

1 (21m 54s):
Or did it just spread the crisis out? And is that in and of itself an accomplishment for these governors?

2 (21m 60s):
I'm not a political reporter, but I would say from the view from the border of course, was that that sort of thing of delivering migrants to the Vice President's residents or to Martha's Vineyard, it was clearly a political stunt. Did it make a point that Governor Greg Abbott wanted to make? Absolutely. You know, when that community had to scramble to provide food and shelter for a vulnerable group that didn't have anything in that moment, they did. And that's something that border communities in Texas, Arizona, New Mexico, and California are doing every single day. So I think that point was made. Now, should anyone be making a point using actual suffering humans, you know, that's, I'm not gonna answer that.

2 (22m 46s):
You know, that's up to people's politics, I guess. But

1 (22m 50s):
I'll answer. It seems like No,

2 (22m 52s):
Yeah, I, I think that a lot of certainly immigrant advocates thought that that was a political stunt and not the right move for people who truly did not know where they were going or what they were being thrust into.

1 (23m 6s):
But like that's what we're left with in the absence of real policy on immigration. And it feels like we're in this moment where President Biden is really struggling to come up with functional policy in the absence of Title 42. And this is just left to the courts, the Supreme Court state courts to figure out, or even governors who resort to the inhumane treatment of human beings. Is that the status quo? Is that where we are? Yeah.

2 (23m 36s):
If the question is, is it gonna be a functional policy? I mean, call me back in like four weeks. So, you know, returning to Title A, there's a lot in there. It's like if, if you come down here, let's say to El Paso, to El Paso sector, the border patrol's El Paso sector, you've got about 2,400 border patrol agents patrolling an area that's 264 miles long stretches all the way from the Arizona border, east of El Paso and West Texas. And it's massive. And so people are crossing between ports of entry and whenever you sort of force people outside of the actual international port of entry infrastructure, there's a whole lot of problems that come along with that.

2 (24m 20s):
You know, people are crossing through a deep and heavy current of the Rio Grande. They are climbing over a 30 foot border wall, ending up paralyzed, dying, or losing a limb or breaking hips and and legs. I mean, it's dangerous. You know, I think it remains to be seen whether the Biden administration's new policies, its CBP one app, which as much as everyone has complained about that is an attempt to use technology to facilitate illegal pathway into the country. You know, will it work, will it bring people to that port infrastructure instead of crossing a dangerous river?

2 (25m 8s):
Crossing a hot desert crossing over a 30 foot wall? You know, I think we have to, we have to give it a chance, right? We have to see what's gonna happen.

1 (25m 28s):
Lauren via Grand is an El Paso based reporter with the El Paso Times and the USA Today Network. Find her work@elpasotimes.com. Victoria Chamberlain produced our show today Should help from Matthew Collette, Laura Bullard, Amanda Lou Ellen and Patrick Boyd. I'm Sean Ramis from, this is Today Explained.