3 (1s):
In a somewhat stunning twist of fate today's episode of today explained is supported by the clip electric toothbrush company. If you go to get quip.com / explained at this very moment, you will get your first quip refills. Absolutely free of charge. Think about it make a decision execute. WV o XF M 98, it's your Holiday Mix Master DJ Shawn Holladay rom-com here with my co-host, you know from Switched on pop. It's a podcast. It's a book W. Vo X is very own DJ Cheerilee Harding chili. How is it?

3 (42s):
Oh, it's great. It is snowing. It is cheery. Perfect because I want to take us all the way back Cheerilee way back to Christmas 1994 for a pop hit that's actually climbing the charts right now and

1 (53s):
2019. One of a lot for Christmas there is just one now. I don't know about you Cheerilee. But

3 (1m 6s):
94 I was playing Super Mario Kart for Super Nintendo dreaming of a white Christmas up in Toronto. What were you up

1 (1m 12s):
to? I was just a wee

3 (1m 14s):
little boy. However, right Kerry was at the height of her career

1 (1m 19s):
and she and her team were a little

3 (1m 21s):
worried about putting out a Christmas song because you know when you're at the height of your Career, you don't usually put up the Christmas single. That's usually Diggin for how do I Pander to an audience and get another hit and yet she did it and it became one of the most important holiday songs of all time something that very few

1 (1m 39s):
people accomplished because almost all of our Christmas Hits come from the past the crazy thing about it. Is this song didn't

3 (1m 50s):
go number one until

1 (1m 52s):
25 years later this month in 2019. What's this song a big deal when it came out back in 1994?

3 (2m 2s):
Absolutely. This song was an absolute smash both because of Mariah's incredible vocals and because it did an amazing job of referencing all of the necessary notes. You have to hit to make a Christmas song Sound nostalgic to create a Christmas smash. There are four required elements. The first is that you need to reference the past. You've got to go back. Gotta dig the 40s in the 50s. That's what people hear when they think of Christmas music the referencing that old Sinatra sort of style right then in order to get that sound. Just right. You need the chords that are perfect that evoke that nostalgic sound. You need to have third a stunning vocal performance which Mariah brings and finally you can't have a Christmas hit without some sleigh bells.

3 (2m 52s):
Let's go through these elements one by one starting with form. She's doing something kind of different right off the bat. Right? What she's doing here is she is establishing a song form, which is actually quite old you see for the last 75 years songs as you and I know them have been written in verse-chorus form. That's we have a verse of course a verse, of course a bridge A Chorus and a chorus and like most songs kind of like take that. At form and they play with it a little bit and that's a pop song but she's not doing that. Hmm the song that she puts out a 1994 wouldn't sound like anything that's coming out in 1994. It's written in a structure that was popular in the first era of popular music.

3 (3m 34s):
It's called a be a form. This is like the Great American Songbook songs. These are the Broadway hits. These are the Tin Pan Alley songs that were written from the teens all the way until the 50s when the that song form went out of Vogue. And when you're listening to I don't know. Let's say like Let It Snow that song is written in a Aba form instead of having a verse that sort of takes you through anticipation up to a chorus. The first thing you hear is the main Melody of the song in popular music. Now we think of like the chorus is the thing you remember But in old songs, it was the first thing you heard which was the hook.

1 (4m 22s):
So if you go to like Let It

3 (4m 23s):
Snow and you listen to the first verse

1 (4m 26s):
here's what you get. Oh, the weather outside is frightful, but the fire is so delightful since we've been

3 (4m 35s):
one. Let it snow let it snow let it snow

1 (4m 37s):
let it snow let it snow let it snow let it snow is the

3 (4m 40s):
tag you get the name of the song, you know exactly what's going to happen. And then what happens next doesn't show signs of stopping

1 (4m 48s):
doesn't show signs of stopping and I brought. Some corn for popping. The lights are turned down low. Let it snow and then the

3 (4m 59s):
song goes to the B section

1 (5m 1s):
when we finally kiss. Goodnight. It's almost like kind of like a bridge. It

3 (5m 5s):
is extra News section. If we listen to All I Want for Christmas. It's doing the same thing.

1 (5m 23s):
The tag at the end of the a second the hook right hook. Yeah, and then the song transforms the song does go into sort of like a more like jingle bell rock version

3 (5m 36s):
of itself. It really like the presents are opening what she's doing here is she is immediately referencing an older style of song so it might be coming out in Before but it's structured like it could have come out in 1938 does it not technically have a chorus or is that whole opening passage which the structure of which is repeated throughout the song? Is that like the chorus? Well, here's the thing is like that idea of the chorus is a sort of more contemporary idea. Like we think of the course being the climax that happens later with a verse that you build into it. But the first thing we hear kind of Acts, yeah as a chorus it starts right at the beginning.

3 (6m 17s):
Beginning and so the song you could think of an ABA song is almost like chorus chorus Bridge chorus. It's nothing but chorus. Let's move on from the chorus to the chords. What is it about the cords of this song that make it so special Cheerilee. So we established that, you know, try to great Christmas song. You gotta be looking back to the past. People are remembering family. They're thinking about what's all of their traditions and the music that just happens to a company that reified and culture over. Over and over and over again is that era from the 50s now, we don't want to go into the politics of that sort of nostalgia. But that is the Nostalgia people look for for their music.

3 (6m 57s):
And if you're going there you've got to use the right chords. In fact when she transitions from that really dark brooding wrapping the presents moment into the presence being ripped open in the song turning into this bright Jolly wonderful moment. She uses this chord progression that is sometimes called the 1850s chord progression it goes g e minor c d wait Charlie. What the hell was that? I wasn't keyboard. I have this like mini toy keyboard here. I'll even look check it out. We can even put it we got some toy piano.

3 (7m 41s):
And that chord progression is this famous chord progression that was just used over and over and over in the 1950s. So with all I want for Christmas is you she references this chord progression to take you back into other time and then adds all these Lush and interesting complex chords that you know aren't as popular in today's contemporary music and so in the way she constructs or chords on. Of the song form were thrown into the past. Okay, Charlie, I think we've reached the point in our program where we have to talk about this barn burner of a vocal performance that Mimi gives in all I want for Christmas. Is you a performance. I don't even think she's capable of giving anymore sadly.

3 (8m 21s):
Well, I think Mariah just sounds fabulous today and she sounded stunning then there's one word you need to know and that is Cadenza credenza. No not credenza could. Tenza, oh Cadenza. The Cadenza is this moment usually towards the end of a piece or sometimes maybe at the end of a section of a piece where there's this great improvised drawn-out ornamental element of the performance and we get it of course in Mariah's

1 (8m 59s):
voice. Mariah showing off be the Pinnacle of her vocals both not only the high

3 (9m 14s):
beautiful notes that she can sing but her capacity to take a single word like is and turn it into the most magical performance. She literally takes is and it becomes like yeah, I like it so much more would you do Hey Cheerilee, all of a sudden is because this this this beautiful moment like like an ornament on the Christmas tree and it is the opportunity for Mariah to show off just how great of a singer she is. And right after we get that we get the sleigh

1 (9m 50s):
bells. What did I say? You can't have a Christmas hit without some sleigh bells. You hear sleigh bells in it automatically just was Regional like Time Warp wormhole in through the Jew and then you're out the other side and you're in Christmas land because sleigh bells just evoke that sound and boom a Christmas classic is birth. It plays so

3 (10m 13s):
well in a Starbucks playlist with Frank Sinatra with Nat King Cole, and of course you have films like

1 (10m 21s):
Of actually for Christmas, there's just one thing I

3 (10m 27s):
need and the song is helped by Mariah herself and she didn't make just one and music video of the song. She made count them three music videos and she is such a champ every year. She's going on social media reposting about this song. She is a part of making sure that its narrative continues to succeed.

1 (11m 2s):
The queen of Christmas and her calling card Christmas. Anthem wouldn't have made it to number one without

3 (11m 7s):
streaming streaming has changed the charts and it's changing the music to this is DJ Sean rom-com rameswaram and all that and more is coming up in just a minute on Explain from WV o XF M 98, but first this note from our sponsor. It's hard to part ways with something at the end of the year and I got to say here. We are parting ways with quip. These are the last times I will talk to you about clip this year. So just one last set of reminders here that quip is Bravely wagering that if you went and talked to a dentist and said, hey dentist.

3 (11m 54s):
What is the best toothbrush out there in the game your dentist would not say that. Your dentist would say it doesn't matter what toothbrush you use it matters how you brush your teeth and quit would like to say that that's why you should pick the quip the clips got all these features. It's got sensitive Sonic vibrations. It's got a built-in timer. Does your toothbrush have a built-in timer? It's got 30 second pulses to give you a full and even clean and they deliver you these brush heads every three months so you don't have to think about it. And guess what your Out of those brush heads absolutely free right now. If you go to get quick.com explained you first refills are free G ET Q UI p.com explained where your first set of Quip refills are free.

3 (12m 42s):
Happy

1 (12m 42s):
holiday.

3 (12m 51s):
Charlie Our Hero Mariah Carey's got another number one, but from what I've seen this moment means more than that for Mariah. This is important for Mariah because for someone whose career has lasted so long she is now in a place of cementing a legacy that could give her more number one singles possibly than any other artist depending on how you count. Off the charts nonetheless. She is one of the best-selling artists in this record shows that she has staying power you're talking about more number ones Than the Beatles than Elvis but I mean I got to ask is all I want for Christmas is you only at the top of the charts because of changes to the rules that govern these charts rankings in so many Industries are frequently.

3 (13m 49s):
How can I nicely say manipulated without Using the word manipulated. Well, I said it manipulated by its industry to help boost the things which are successful and that there are constantly changing ways that people count things. It's actually really hard to compare what was successful in terms of a number one hit in the 1950s to today. You see billboard over the years continues to tweak its algorithm and one of the things that happened was that billboard decided that streaming was going to become important. They would start to count. A streams of music and digital downloads in 2017 streaming becomes the most important Revenue line and revenue growth for the industry.

3 (14m 30s):
And so what happens is songs that are succeeding in the streaming start to chart more those include bizarre outliers like baby shark because it was watched so many times on

1 (14m 41s):
YouTube.

3 (14m 47s):
But that also means that every single time you come back around to the holiday music that music to actually goes back on the charts. If you went back to 1994 when the song came out and by 1995 or 1996 1997. You've already bought the record once in you're going to play it every year but each time you spend the song it didn't count as being on the charts. Now every time you go to your favorite streaming service and you play the song that counts towards how it's performing. It's interesting to me that like Aiming which gives us so many more options at our fingertips. We could go down any musical rabbit hole we want at any given time is drawing us to this one song that we've all known for a quarter Century instead is streaming driving our musical interests apart or or unifying them or or both at the same time.

3 (15m 39s):
Yeah, you know I think having the agency to be able to reach deep into all the things that you can discover from all the things that are available in streaming what an amazing world of Music. However, the data might say something else in 2018 Buzz angle music which is a research group. That actually is a part of the media company that owned the Rolling Stone. They put out a report that showed that the top 10% of albums. Consumed be accounted for over 95 percent of total sales and worse that the bottom 90% of albums only accounted for point eight percent of total streams.

3 (16m 22s):
Right? So people at the top are getting paid and everyone else basically isn't which is great news for Mariah Carey. I think that we can think about all I want for Christmas for you and the way that it constantly reinforce has its own lifespan. And simultaneously how we're listening to music. Maybe your round is actually similarly consolidating around the things which are most popular. It turns out that even when we have agency to listen to whatever we want. We're still interested in listening to what everyone else is listening to because of the social aspect of music and that pulls us towards a custom common denominators. Is it just because it's way easier to just listen to the things you already know and love or other other forces at play here.

3 (17m 9s):
well part of it is just about convenience as well as yeah knowing what is cool and part of what's happened is that we have a lot of consolidation around a couple of core listening platforms and those Distributors now have more power than ever the things that they merchandise the album's that they put front and center are going to be seen over other music and most importantly the playlist that they make with are frequently a main source of Music discovery that are being pushed towards Millions and millions of people now. I think a lot of these streaming platforms are also like to say, yeah, but the algorithm is also helping us show you things you might not otherwise discover and honestly it does if those are the things you're looking for frankly though.

3 (17m 51s):
I think there should be some concern about having such a limited number of Distributors with limited screen real estate. It's going to point us to potentially fewer and fewer things. And what does that mean for music Charlie? I think it's easy to sort of talk about changing technology is changing. Music for the worst and you know and every era the technology of how music is heard has definitely changed the sound of music but I wouldn't say it's subjectively good or bad. It's usually happening a little on the margins here. You know, you look at the the pop song is 3 minutes and 30 seconds because that's what the phonograph record could hold for time length. The the album was only available when the long-playing record could fit in, you know, 40-ish minutes onto a record and so each each era has sort of its changes and one of the things that streaming is doing is that you know, a stream of a song Only counts if someone listens through the first 30 seconds, and so in order to sort of like game that so people don't click away from a song artists are often putting their chorus or it sort of like a mini version of their course at the beginning of the song that way you're immediately hooked in which I actually think strangely connects us back to Mariah because remember how we pointed out how this song is in the aaba old-style for Song where the sort of main Hook is the first thing that you hear.

3 (19m 11s):
How can I forget a lot of contemporary songwriters someone like post Malone he puts his course up front at the beginning of the song and almost all of his hits. You'll probably think that you are better

1 (19m 20s):
now bad and now you only say that cause I'm not around not around, you know, I never meant to let you hear the the best part of the song

3 (19m 29s):
you make sure that you listen through the first 30

1 (19m 32s):
seconds

3 (19m 36s):
and then you get the full chorus later. Iran so that there is a still a little bit of a treat at the end of the

1 (19m 42s):
track. I've also heard that artists like Drake have

3 (19m 48s):
made longer albums because longer albums when you drop a new album means people will be streaming the entire thing and thus more of your songs can climb the charts. That's exactly what you also get paid more money because you know used to be that you made money by selling the actual physical album itself and things were really broken apart when Bowl successfully got the record labels to agree that you could buy individual songs one by one digitally off of an album. This was contentious at first, but now the way that things are counted in the way that people are paid by streams your paid every single time. Someone streams at least 30 seconds of your song If you have a record that's 25 songs long, you might get paid 25 times if someone listens all the way through rather than if it's only ten songs long you just getting paid 10 times.

3 (20m 36s):
And you would say that's a bad thing that streaming has made for longer albums hooks up front and even brought Mariah to the top of the charts because of seasonal streams. That's not ultimately bad for listeners. I think really our job as listeners is to open our ears to have some comfort with some musical knowledge and say hey, what is what is that thing doing? Why is it succeeding? It's usually a combination not just of top-down marketing and you know a label pushing something to you. It's not just the things that you like and and your own personal agency. It's the two of those things combined with the effectiveness of the song.

3 (21m 20s):
It's already challenged people whenever they're like streaming is hurting music. Let's do the song see what it has to say for itself. Cheerilee Harding is better known as Charlie Harding. He's the co-host of Switched on pop which is a podcast from Fox and now it's a book to all about how popular music works and why it matters. I'm Sean Rama's firm. This is today explained the show is taking the next couple of days off or back on boxing day. Thank you for listening to our show today. I hope you enjoyed it.

3 (22m 0s):
I hope you're enjoying having teeth if you have them if you want them cleaner than they are right now or a different brush to clean them with go to get quip.com explained. Your first set of refills are free. Unbelievable. Simply Irresistible. Everyone loves free. Thanks quip.