3 (3s):
Today, it's like there's a funny thing going on in the United States. As of today. We've got over 4 million reported cases of covid and as you surely know by now, that's an undercount. The CDC says that some regions might have 10 times. The number of cases. They're reporting on Tuesday. The United States reported 1,000 deaths in a single day. It was the first time Time that had happened since May states are dialing back there re-openings and yet the country is still fighting about something. That's pretty basic. You know, what it is.

3 (44s):
You literally cannot mandate somebody to wear a mask knowing that that mask is killing people. It literally is killing people and might the people we the people are waking up in

1 (55s):
Michigan the facemask rule at a Family Dollar Store turned deadly police. security guard was shot after getting into an argument with a customer

3 (1m 4s):
internationally today immediate backlash after George's Republican Governor Brian Kemp band cities in his state from mandating the wearing of masks in

1 (1m 14s):
public in Alabama and off-duty officer

3 (1m 17s):
was seen body slamming a woman at a Walmart when she allegedly refused to wear a mask it councilman at Scottsdale Under Fire for Peary to mock the dying words of George Floyd and Eric Garner as he protested wearing the mask later apologized on today's show. We're going to try and figure out why Americans are still struggling to mask up when they go out. Dr. Julia Marcus is here to help.

1 (1m 52s):
I am an epidemiologist and assistant professor at Harvard

3 (1m 55s):
Medical School and it felt like a good time to have this conversation because this week the president finally came around to masks. We're asking everybody that when you are not able to socially distance wear a mask get a mask whether you like the mask or not. They have an impact that will have an effect and we need everything we can get.

1 (2m 17s):
Yeah, you know better late than never and hopefully that will push some of his constituents who have been more resistant to start wearing masks

3 (2m 27s):
themselves. Do you think it'll work that way? Like after people have become so divided on this issue him finally just saying in a press conference that maybe wear a mask will turn people around on

1 (2m 39s):
it. I don't know it might help it might have some of the people who were maybe less entrenched in their position, but I do think some of the damage has already been done in terms of politicizing masks. Creating this very polarized debate.

3 (2m 55s):
What do you think took the president's so long? I mean things have been bad for months. Now lockdowns were happening in March and April and in July, he says maybe wear a

1 (3m 7s):
mask. Yeah. I mean my question is almost the opposite of why why did he shifted his position? I wasn't all that shocked that he went against CDC recommendations on this given his hole. A response to the pandemic in general and some kind of curious what happened now to push him to finally say, okay

3 (3m 29s):
fine wear a mask. That was my next question for you. Do we have any idea how he was

1 (3m 33s):
convinced? I don't know but I would guess that it felt to him based on polling data. He's seeing or pressure from other Republican officials that maybe this was a better way to go in terms of his election prospects.

3 (3m 50s):
I wonder Is the quote-unquote debate a sort of distinctly American thing or have other countries dealt with the same resistance that we're seeing in this country.

1 (4m 1s):
I don't know what it's a distinctly American thing, but it certainly has a lot of undercurrents of some of the themes we tend to see here around a focus on individual freedoms and concerns that public health recommendations are paternalistic. Or infringing on people's civil liberties

3 (4m 24s):
either wear the mask and I'm not doing it. So I woke up in a free country. No, I would rather die from coronavirus then to live the rest of my life In Fear And wearing a damn

1 (4m 43s):
mask and I do think there's a long history of new Public Health interventions encountering some resistance in the That's nothing new and public health. People are used to that but I think what's a bit different here was seeing a sitting president flouting those

3 (5m 1s):
recommendations. This is voluntary. I don't think I'm going to be doing it.

1 (5m 6s):
I don't know that we've seen that happen before and so I think that created a bit more it added feel to a fire that you know would have already been there a little bit but I think it made it a bit more politicized than it usually is.

3 (5m 19s):
Hmm. How much of the country is suffering from this sort of mask of version do we have any

1 (5m 26s):
idea? I don't think it's a huge proportion. I think based on some survey data that are available on mask wearing that most people are on board with masks that it's not a huge chunk of the population that is avidly against them. But you know, it's a vocal group and it has Created this whole debate around mask when perhaps there isn't a huge debate and and we're focusing a bit too much on this discussion. But I do think it is important to try to increase adherence to masks and try to understand why people are resistant to them.

3 (6m 6s):
Do we know who tends to be anti-mask? Is it? Is it Libertarians is that people who support the president do we know? Well, some

1 (6m 15s):
surveys have suggested it's more likely to be men than women. It's more likely to B2B white people than people of color and that it's more likely to be conservative people than liberal people other people out

3 (6m 29s):
there who are two pro mask the people who are out there screaming at people on the sidewalk for not wearing a basque policing beaches it just sort of trying to conduct citizens arrests for people who are not wearing

1 (6m 43s):
masks. Yeah. I think it's a it's a great question. I think when we say polarized we really mean polarized it's not just That there are you know these avidan time askers, but there is some very binary messaging on the other side as well wear a mask every single time you leave your house at all times. Just wear it damn mask and you think you have the right to take your mask off to get everyone else fish. Meanwhile you just threatened and pass on you during a global pandemic. Are you for

3 (7m 12s):
real? Is that funny? It's super funny eyes where to Too bad. If you touch me again, I will knock you

1 (7m 23s):
out that kind of messaging. I think isn't necessarily ideal either and there can be a middle ground. That's like masks are important. They yes, some of the messaging was confusing now. We're in a place where it seems like they really can help and here are the situations where they're most important. I think people can handle some Nuance. So it's not that you necessarily need to be wearing a mask when you're out on a walk in your neighborhood. Loan and nobody is within 30 feet of you. But if you're you know in a crowded grocery store, yeah wear a mask and let's make it easy for people and put a mask dispenser in the front of the grocery store with a sign that says please wear this for the 10 minutes that you're in here.

1 (8m 4s):
And if you need to dispose of it on your way out fine, but that makes a task focused on the situations where its most

3 (8m 10s):
needed you mentioned that initially the messaging was confusing. I remember that we didn't all need to wear masks at first, but now we should was that just the Science evolving.

1 (8m 21s):
Well, the message was are always if you have symptoms wear a mask, but there wasn't an initial understanding of asymptomatic transmission. And I think as that became clearer it became more of a consideration in terms of recommending masks for people who weren't having symptoms who may be unknowingly transmitting the virus. I think that what really contributed to some confusion was that that that non recommendation around masks actually went further with some Health officials saying masks could do more harm than good.

3 (8m 53s):
It actually does not help. It's not been proven to be effective in preventing spread of coronavirus amongst the general public and actually people who tend to buy mask and don't know how to wear them properly. I have a healthcare provider. I have to get fit tested folks who don't know how to wear them properly tend to touch their faces a lot and actually can increase the spread of coronavirus. You can increase your risk of getting it by wearing a mask. If you are not a healthcare provider,

1 (9m 16s):
and I think that that message probably Muted somewhat to the sense that there was more than just an evolution of science in the messaging around masks, but that people were being lied to and of course there was also a concern around the shortage of PPE for healthcare workers who were being exposed on a daily basis. So I think there was probably a lot going on there with why masks were not initially recommended and I'm not as clear on why there were concerns that masks would do more harm than good because I'm not I'm not sure that there is We don't have

3 (9m 50s):
that but this is all been cleared up now guidelines are

1 (9m 54s):
consistent guidelines, of course are all over the place depending on where you live. But at a federal level the recommendation is to wear a mask when you can't socially distance from people. It's not a mandate some places have mandates and those mandates differ depending on the community and and maybe they should differ depending on what's going on with Community spread and that area but I think we would benefit probably from a federal mask mandate, but it's not that

4 (10m 17s):
easy.

1 (10m 22s):
If you think about a mandate and how it would be enforced everywhere at all times on every train every bus, you know, it's just not not possible not feasible and and not Equitable usually so I think we need both things. We need masks requirements. But we also need especially in the places where they're most needed indoor public spaces in particular, but we also need to be thinking about what the resistance is. What makes it hard for people and and working with them, too. overcome

4 (10m 51s):
those barriers

3 (10m 57s):
More with dr. Julia Marcus after a quick

4 (11m 0s):
break.

3 (11m 17s):
Support for the show today comes from Sun basket. If you're interested in getting delicious Super Fresh and healthy meals delivered right to your door some basket would very much like to oblige you and who wouldn't be interested in getting Korean barbecue inspired lettuce cups with kimchi delivered straight to their door or Malaysian stir-fried noodles with shrimp and spicy. Mapo tofu Sun basket lets you explore your Would without even heading to the grocery store like ever because it comes straight to your door. They've also got a huge selection of meals that are great for the gluten-free folks out there. And this may explain family the Paleo people the vegetarians in the family right now son basket is offering $35 off your order when you go to Sun basket.com explained and enter the promo code explained at check out that his son basket.com / explained and for the promo code explained when you checkout the $35 off your

4 (12m 19s):
offer.

3 (12m 25s):
I remember I used to have a history teacher back at UCLA who said to us that there are times when you could feel the fists of History painting around you also thought about that. She was talking not long after 9/11. But this is another one of those moments. It is a hinge moment in the American Democratic experiment. The entire Globe is being battered by the coronavirus. We're dealing with some of our oldest moons in this country on top of entirely new technologies like it is a crazy time. Mr. Klein host of years of Hangzhou podcast and what we're trying to do right now is understand our time and try to find some of the ideas that might help us chart a way out of it the past few months. We've talked to Tom a Seacoast about why the protest made him actually hopeful demariont'e Basu kado about the ways in which the economics profession has misunderstood the concept in this measure the concept of value to Elizabeth Warren about her plan to combat the coronavirus trust outfit about whether or not American societies become decadent.

3 (13m 21s):
These have all been great conversations and there are So many more I hope you'll join me every Monday and Thursday to stay informed and maybe we get a sense of hope as well subscribe to this reclined show on Apple podcast Spotify or ever you listening to this right now. Dr. Marcus, I was wondering if we could talk about some mask best practices because I think we've all seen the Bros out there wearing them under their noses under their mouths on their necks. There's a lot of innovation going on but clearly not all Innovation is good.

1 (13m 58s):
I think the best way to wear a mask is over your mouth and nose when you are near other people and especially when you're indoors, and I don't think it has to be a whole lot more complicated. Later than that and I think the reason people have their masks while there may be many reasons why people have their masks worn as chin straps instead of over their face, but you know in some cases like if I'm out for a jog in a fairly spacious area, it's pretty uncomfortable to wear a mask the whole time you're jogging and it's also unnecessary if you're not near any one, but I do always have one available invisible and ready to pull up and I think maybe there are times when everybody's kind of thinking that way and they're well-intentioned and you know, I've written about how masks are in some ways.

1 (14m 38s):
Like condoms and sometimes people have a condom on their bedside table and they just never use it. So it's like a good intention but doesn't quite happen. So I think the important thing is just making sure that it actually makes it onto your face covering your mouth and nose when you're close to other people especially indoors.

3 (14m 53s):
I think when we did our initial Mask episode, we cleared up that you know, an n95 mask is probably one of the better masks you could possibly have but the best practices were to just try and use something to cover your nose. And mouth but has that thinking evolved at all. I've heard that you know bandanas really aren't doing the job because they aren't as tight on the bottom. And so you're missing some real covering their down below. Is that is that factual?

1 (15m 22s):
Well, I mean, there's going to be a spectrum of how much different kinds of face coverings reduce the risk of transmission and I think the data are still evolving on that but a bandana is going to be better than nothing and a close-fitting cloth mask is going to be better than a bandana and an n95 is going to be better than a cloth mask. So it's you know, it's a matter of what is going to reduce transmission enough in the community to get us to a place where we can live our lives again, and I think if everybody were wearing cloth masks when they're most needed we may be able to make a real dent in what's going on right now. And of course, it's not a Panacea and we do need particularly Public Health infrastructure around And tracing to also make that impact but masks can help.

1 (16m 13s):
How

3 (16m 13s):
much can they help do we have any data that suggests the difference mask-wearing can make

1 (16m 19s):
there are some studies that have suggested that if a certain proportion of the population was wearing masks new infections would be reduced by a certain amount a recent study by a group of Cornell University scientists showed that when quarantines are lifted if 80% of the population wears. Math with social distancing the virus could be eliminated. I think it's there's a lot of assumptions there and a lot of unknowns, but I think it's pretty clear that masks can help and we should use I think every prevention tool at our disposal to try to make an impact. And so again, it's not absolutes and it's not the only intervention we have but I think it's worth trying to get people on board as much as possible, especially where it

3 (17m 5s):
counts like in places like, Florida,

1 (17m 7s):
Texas. Arizona yep places with high communities friend but also indoor public spaces where people gather

3 (17m 14s):
but some of these places have still really struggled to mandate mask-wearing do they not have public health officials who see the importance of masks or is it more of a political problem?

1 (17m 25s):
I think in some places it is clearly a political problem, you know, and it in Georgia and particular we've seen active interventions on the part of elected officials to make sure that mask mandate. Aren't happening. So it's not just leaving it up to localities to make the decision themselves is actually interfering with their ability to enforce a mandate,

3 (17m 47s):
but that's where this becomes sort of. Just indecipherable to me. I mean we have the data that shows Community spread you saying that we have some data that suggests masks reduce that Community spread and then you have politicians who are saying we'd rather have Community spread then tell people to wear

1 (18m 11s):
masks. Yeah, it's hard for me as a public health person to make sense of it all as well.

3 (18m 19s):
Yeah, it just feels like there's something going on there. That might even be be Politics I mean, especially now the president is saying you gotta wear a mask. What are the politics of this after after?

1 (18m 30s):
He says it I am truly believe there's going to be a really interesting book written about what happened with masks in 2020 and I look forward to reading that but I do hope that this shift in tone from the president will you know, if it's I don't know if it's going to have an impact for his constituents who are feeling resistance a mask, but I wonder if if it will have an impact for let's say the situation going on politically in Georgia that Republican elected officials who have been resistant to the mask mandates, you know may soften a bit if the president is softening as well in the

3 (19m 9s):
meantime while you know, we wait to see whether the politics of this shifts throughout the country. I wonder you know, what do you say to someone in your family who's maybe showing resistance to wearing a mask? A grocery store or a Costco or something like that? Is there is there is there something you've heard that works when you're trying to have these conversations with people who who are resistant to this idea still.

1 (19m 36s):
Yeah. I mean, I wrote a piece about masks and particularly not just people who are who find them to be an inconvenience, which is understandable. But also people who are ideologically opposed and I had a lot of people contacts me and I talked to some of them about What's going on for them? And I think that they were very open to hearing what I had to say about why masts are worth wearing simply because I hadn't kind of yelled at them in my piece that I wrote and I think it was a learning moment for me that you know, if you as a public health person or is somebody who's trying to convince somebody in your community to wear masks if you hear what their concerns are and you take the time to acknowledge them you Have a much more productive conversation.

1 (20m 27s):
And I think it does take more time and I think some people see it as coddling to engage with people who are ideologically opposed to masks or having a hard time wearing them. But actually this is how Public Health ends up being effective is acknowledging what people's barriers are taking the time to understand them and then trying to figure out how we can overcome them both through our messaging and through interventions. So I would encourage people to take that approach rather than a shaming approach, which we know

3 (20m 55s):
doesn't really work very well in So it's going to take a lot of conversations and it's still a conversation worth having that's my sense. Okay, Julia. Thanks so much for your time. Really? Appreciate it. Thanks for having me. I think we got to look ourselves in the eye. We got look in the mirror and ask ourselves. How can I be better? I can expect more of myself and others. How can I be more responsible? How can I have more compassion? How can I have more courage? How can I be more fair? How do I make sure I wear the damn mask? We individually make these changes. That's how we make a collective change.