1 (9s):
We talk a lot about vaccines on the show lately, we've talked mostly about how lots of Americans are refusing to get them and how, at this point you can basically walk into any vaccination site in the country. And they'll just give you one. But remember when a vaccine was like a golden ticket, remember when all people talked about was their appointment or their anticipation of their appointment, or which shot they were going to get. And what that meant today's episode is set during that bygone era in Philadelphia, a city that is near and dear to our hearts here today, explain this past winter, Philadelphia, and trusted its first vaccine clinics to a nine month old organization run by a 22 year old graduate student with no healthcare experience.

1 (53s):
I'm gonna say that again, the city of Philadelphia and trusted its first vaccine clinics to a nine month old organization run by a 22 year old grad student with no healthcare experience. Nina Feldman has been covering the story for w H Y Y public radio in Philadelphia. Nina, where does this story begin?

2 (1m 12s):
Well, it actually starts a couple of months before those clinics first opened when the vaccine became available back in the summer of 2020, when the vaccines were still a few months off. And what we were really focused on was testing. And back then this start-up group called Philly fighting. COVID had launched testing sites to really fill a need that the city was struggling to fill. It was kind of hard at the time. If you remember to find testing that was free, that you didn't need a doctor's note for, and that maybe you didn't need symptoms for. So these kids college students got together and launched a testing site that you know, was easy and accessible

1 (1m 52s):
College students. I mean, that sounds exceptional. Yup.

2 (1m 55s):
And the whole thing was the brainchild of this guy, Andre <inaudible>. He was 22 years old. Like you said, he was a graduate student in the psychology program at Drexel university in Philadelphia. And at this point he was a leader. He was pulling together pre-med students who were looking for a way to help in the pandemic. And there weren't really a lot of options for that.

3 (2m 17s):
That was like almost like a ticket into schools or a ticket into jobs and stuff like that. Like if you told them you worked volunteered there, people would be like, oh my God, it's amazing. Like your hero, like all that stuff,

2 (2m 30s):
You know, Andre had kind of this like startup vibe as a boss, he was fun. He was laid back. He wasn't, you know, some hospital administrator, he was a cool,

3 (2m 41s):
But I remember he didn't pay me. He just gave me a handle of vodka. And I was like, this is lit. Like I'd come home and be like, guys, look what I got from work

1 (2m 50s):
Guy running COVID testing sites is handing out handles of vodka to his employees instead of paying them money. Red flag for, is that how you came to report them? This guy, Andre?

2 (3m 4s):
Well, I first heard about Philly fighting COVID and Andre. A couple months later, it was January of 2021 and the first vaccines had just arrived in Philadelphia. And the city announced that it was working with Philly fighting COVID to launch the city's first mass vaccination clinic for healthcare workers.

1 (3m 23s):
This organization run by young adults will be handling Phillies first vaccination center.

2 (3m 31s):
That's right. And I was a little surprised by that. I mean, I have been covering the pandemic since it started. And I had vaguely heard of these guys. I mean, I knew that they were operating a testing site, but it did surprise me that, you know, Philly is an EDS and meds town. It's a place that is known for its reputable, you know, hospital systems attached to universities. But you know what I figured it must be a bigger operation than I realized I'll suspend judgment at this point. But then things started to get a little bit bigger.

4 (4m 4s):
So good morning again. First I want to thank the Philadelphia department of public health in Philly fighting COVID

5 (4m 10s):
For organizing this.

2 (4m 11s):
Andre gets up on stage at this press kickoff event to launch the partnership, launched the vaccine clinic. And there were just all these little signals of the way he's talking about this. That just doesn't quite seem normal.

5 (4m 27s):
And you see here is the problem that we've been solving for six months. This is the problem of vaccinating, an entire population of people on a scale that has never been seen before in the history of our species,

1 (4m 43s):
Epic stuff.

2 (4m 45s):
And there were a few sort of discrepancies with the numbers that he offered to. Just things that he claimed for true, that I knew were wrong and they just kind of set off my antenna. So after the press conference found Andre, he was standing outside the clinic area with his giant English bulldog Winston,

5 (5m 6s):
Oh, he's our head of security. Sorry. His security badge is, but he goes everywhere with me.

2 (5m 11s):
I told him I had some questions about cost. I'm curious about how much it costs to run an event like this on a per day.

5 (5m 22s):
I can't actually tell you those specifics. If I can tell you it's a really nice Mercedes.

2 (5m 29s):
And I just had never had anybody answer a question about what I assumed to be as city funded operation like that before. And so, you know, I pet his bulldog and I packed up my gear and I went home and started poking around Andre, presented himself as sort of a wonder, kin you know, his resume listed him as an entrepreneur, a philanthropist, the director, something called the Rancho Mirage film department. But when we started to kind of peel back the surface, none of it really added up.

2 (6m 12s):
It turned out the videos from the Rancho Mirage film department. We're all on YouTube. And they were made by Andre as a high schooler.

6 (6m 23s):
Ah, I've heard of you. You're that Marine. Yeah. And I came here.

2 (6m 28s):
There was one called a day in the life of Andre devotion,

5 (6m 32s):
I guess in my head, the day starts with the first lift, the best sound in the world, the 45 pound plates hitting up against each other. Oh, he calls the gym church. I don't know what it is with that sound. It says,

2 (6m 47s):
And in this film, Andre walks through his typical day at his high school. That's when it started to become clear that the Rancho Mirage film department was in fact his high school film club.

1 (7m 1s):
So he's a bit of a grifter.

2 (7m 4s):
Yeah. And you know, we asked him about that and he, he stuck by, in an interview that we had with him. He stuck by the fact that those things did give him experience in sort of the corporate and nonprofit world.

1 (7m 18s):
But do you get the sense that he's using similar tactics with the city of Philadelphia?

2 (7m 21s):
Yeah, that was exactly our concern in our reporting was, you know, he's making all these claims about these big bold organizations that he's been instrumental in the formation of and saying there were huge successes and you know, what does he have to show for it? And so we asked him about it specifically where his money to run a vaccine site like this was coming from any other light, you can shed from a public interest perspective on who's funding, an operation that the city is, you know, so closely in partnership with,

7 (7m 51s):
Do you know who the investors with CVS are? And you probably don't right? Because nobody cares. They deliver a service. The service is done. The promise people, a service we deliver the service. I think the only people concerned about that funding is you.

1 (8m 4s):
Why is it that it's just essentially you and your newsroom asking these questions about Andre and Philly fighting COVID was the work legit.

2 (8m 13s):
I think the work looks legit to the city on the surface, but the people who were a part of Philly fighting COVID would be the first to tell you that the testing sites were not perfect. Things were not going that well. You know, the, the volunteers that we talked to said that there was a point at which Andre sort of abandoned the idea of testing as the primary objective and goal and move towards. We want to be the city of Philadelphia's primary vaccine provider and in, so doing we're going to make a lot of money. And that was this sort of pivotal shift that happened that the volunteers told us, you could sort of see play out in real time. Andreas started changing his look that first he would

3 (8m 55s):
Always show up in like his little sketcher sneakers with his Android and his scrubs

2 (9m 1s):
Showed up late in like kind of fancy outfit.

3 (9m 4s):
We're being like, okay, like, that's weird that he's like an a for co on a testing site. He looked like a boss mafia, man. Like I thought he was part of the mafia

2 (9m 17s):
On top of that, the testing site became super disorganized. It was kind of like a walking HIPAA violation. And as a part of their city contract for testing Philly fighting COVID was required to test underserved populations. And the testing site they had set up was in an almost completely white neighborhood. And, you know, they could have been testing black and Latino communities there that's possible, but there was no way to know because they were not fulfilling their obligation to track demographic data as a testing site for the city. So for some of the idealistic volunteers that we talked to, some of the, of the sheen started to wear off as all of this stuff added up.

3 (10m 0s):
I remember my mom, Larry telling me that I was in New York for the weekend. She was like, something is going to like blow up in their faces. This is going to go down in flames.

1 (10m 15s):
So what happens when this group actually starts administering the vaccine, they got a lot

2 (10m 19s):
Of national media attention

8 (10m 22s):
And the gospel live with his story. Steph, this sounds like a pretty cool kid.

2 (10m 26s):
Yeah, he definitely is Greg. And you know, they framed themselves as kind of disrupting healthcare. As we know it, they really knew how to sell themselves.

5 (10m 36s):
We don't think like institutional, you know, we're engineers, we're scientists, computer scientists for cybersecurity nerds. We think a little differently than people in healthcare do.

2 (10m 45s):
But for us on the grounds questions about Philly fighting, COVID, we're just growing. And one thing we found out that really surprised us, and that had really surprised a lot of the people who were partnering with them was that in order to pivot to vaccines, they had to cancel their entire testing operation. And what that meant was that organizations who they were partnering with in primarily black and Latino neighborhoods who had been relying on them to do testing events and to tests people in their communities had the rug pulled out from under them. Meanwhile, Philly fighting COVID is still vaccinating people. The first weekend of vaccinations turned into a second, turned into a third.

2 (11m 27s):
And then that third weekend of vaccinations is when everything kind of came crashing down,

1 (11m 36s):
Everyone was scared. Everyone's like, oh no, are they gonna pull the contract? Or are they going to do this? We were, it was like being honest.

2 (11m 45s):
You know, you have to remember, people were desperate for vaccines back then, there were not enough for the number of people who wanted them Philly fighting. COVID had been turning people away at the door. There were people who they hadn't invited to their clinic who were eligible for the vaccine. They were old, they were chronically ill. That was pretty traumatic for a lot of people. And then kind of kicker was that at the end of the clinic, one day after having turned, all of those people away, there was a surplus of doses that turned out. We talked to one nurse who was there on site Katrina Lapinski. And she said during that sort of frenzied time, when volunteers were going around vaccinating each other, and everybody was calling everybody, they knew to come and get the extra doses.

2 (12m 31s):
She watched Andre as he,

9 (12m 34s):
I walked from the vaccine area over to his belongings and packed. I don't know how many vaccines, I would guess maybe 10 or 15 in a plastic bag with the CDC vaccination record cards. He packed it up and he left with another staff member

2 (12m 57s):
Later that evening, a Snapchat photo circulated with Andre, holding the syringes, preparing to inject his friends.

1 (13m 6s):
How does that work out

2 (13m 7s):
For him? That was a Saturday. And by Monday, the city had cut ties. Before

1 (13m 16s):
I got to say, though, like for a dodgy character, with lots of dodgy things going on, him taking 15 shots home that may not have been used by anyone that night that may have been thrown in a trashcan, doesn't feel like the coup de Gras that would get him canceled or anything like that.

2 (13m 37s):
Yeah. A lot of people felt that way. You know, that was the time when we didn't want any of the vaccine doses to go to waste. I think what set this apart is that, you know, Andre was not a healthcare worker. He had no certification. He was not certified to be able to administer a vaccine. And I think it was sort of paired with this earlier operational error, where they screwed up and we're turning these old people away at the door. But the other thing is that this was not the only thing that the health department cited as the reason that they cut ties with the city. They also noted that they did not like fulfilling, fighting COVID canceled its testing operations. So abruptly, they thought that was really inappropriate.

2 (14m 19s):
They noted that they didn't like the Philly fighting. COVID had decided to form a for-profit arm, right. As it was being tapped to be the city's vaccine provider for these mass clinics, they thought that was inappropriate at this juncture. And they also noted that Philly fighting. COVID had a privacy policy as a part of its incorporation to this for-profit entity that would have allowed the group to sell patient data.

1 (14m 46s):
So after getting like national media attention and being sort of a success story, the whole thing falls apart.

2 (14m 54s):
Yeah. And it was a disaster. I mean the national media came back around and after fawning all over Andre to Roshan and Philly fighting COVID initially they had a whole new take now

7 (15m 4s):
Qualified to give a vaccine. I am not a nurse. I have undergone our internal certifications, but Andre, you're not qualified. Right?

2 (15m 14s):
No. And the whole scandal even made it too late night talk show circuits with Stephen Colbert in college,

1 (15m 21s):
Distributing our ultimate Frisbee sign-up sheets and HPV. And where does this leave? Phillies vaccination program?

2 (15m 32s):
Well, Phil, if I didn't COVID vaccine clinic shut down, leaving thousands of people who they'd given the first dose to sort of with nowhere to turn having no idea where they were going to get their second shot. And the whole city had the same question, which is just who let this happen.

0 (15m 51s):
The,

6 (16m 15s):
Ah, I've heard of you you're then Marine. Yeah. And I came here for,

1 (16m 21s):
Okay, Nina, how did the city of Philadelphia let this happen? How did it handover testing and then vaccination to a 22 year old grad student with a big fancy dog and little to no experience.

2 (16m 33s):
Our first instinct and trying to answer that question was to look for a smoking gun in a pay to play scheme. Philadelphia is no stranger to corruption. And we thought it was really possible that there might be somebody in city government who had put this kid on the fast track to vaccines in hopes of getting a kickback later on. So we spent some time looking into that and it, it really didn't look like the evidence was there for it. You know, people wanted to help him, but it was only because they wanted to get Philadelphia vaccinated. I mean, that's, that's a reasonable cause by any measure. So when we really dug into it while it was slightly less exciting explanation, what we found is that this happened because of a perfect storm of kind of leadership failures and underfunding of public health.

2 (17m 30s):
So the leadership failures came on a number of levels. The commissioner of Philadelphia's health department was found later in an inspector General's report to be deeply disconnected from the decisions being made that slowly elevated this group to power.

10 (17m 45s):
No, when the first conversations were about having them managed vaccination

2 (17m 50s):
Clinics. So that was some of it

1 (17m 52s):
That information today, I want to know as much

2 (17m 54s):
As you do, but I think you also have to look at like the bigger picture, which is that there was a system where somebody, whether it was the health commissioner or somebody he delegated to was making these sort of split second decisions in the pressure cooker of a crisis like this to begin with and the way you get there, the way you get to a situation like that is from chronic underfunding of public health.

1 (18m 21s):
How could Philadelphia underfund vaccinations? I mean, it's like a big blue major American metropolis,

2 (18m 29s):
Right? I mean, the city knew that vaccines were coming for months. Why didn't they have a distribution plan earlier on the answer to that is a nationwide problem. Public health departments across the country have been systematically underfunded for the past decade since

11 (18m 49s):
And 10 per person spending for state health departments dropped by 16% and for local health departments by eight,

2 (18m 57s):
18%. What that means is that even when these big influxes of cash come during a national emergency or something like that, if the capacity isn't there in the department, to be able to use that funding in a helpful way, you have to outsource because you don't have enough people, you don't have enough staff. What public health advocates say is that what you need to really prepare for a crisis is you need consistent, sustainable public funding for public health department.

12 (19m 27s):
It's like learning how to be a flight attendant and doing the drills for the crashes.

2 (19m 31s):
I talked to the university of Pennsylvania, public health researcher, Alison Buttenheim. And she made this comparison to the airline industry. Like you want your flight attendants to have practiced an emergency before they get on the plane. And we should expect the same with public health.

12 (19m 46s):
You know, the reason flight attendants and, and flight crews get us through those things is they've like literally walked through it. They have muscle memory and they have, you know, very clear cues that remind them, like I do this, this and this. Now, even though my brain is like, you know, firing crazy stuff, we have to practice public health emergencies and our responses to them, or we'll be slow and we'll be biased in the response

1 (20m 14s):
Even. So this is a city with a bunch of reputable universities. Could they really not have done better than this 22 year old Andre <inaudible>.

2 (20m 24s):
Yeah. And a lot of the volunteers and community advocates that we talked to on the ground who had partnered with Philly fight and COVID to do testing and who were really relying on them to provide services, felt really burned that the city made that decision. I mean, they trusted that the city picked Philly fighting COVID because they were the best option. And so they got into bed with them because they figured they reliable.

13 (20m 48s):
It just seemed like a great fit. In retrospect, there were things that I missed, but they,

2 (20m 54s):
We talked to one community advocate, Syria Rivera. She works with a community center in a mostly Puerto Rican neighborhood in Philadelphia. And, you know, she described how she felt like Philly fighting. COVID said all the right things to her organization to try to help. But then there were unreliable. They didn't show up half the time, five minutes

13 (21m 12s):
Before they were supposed to be here. I get a message like, sorry, we can't make it today. That was it. That was the conference.

2 (21m 17s):
She really felt like they were using her group to be able to say, oh, we partnered with communities of color. We, you know, did all the right things. You should pick us to be the vaccine provider. And they got this opportunity, you know, on the backs of her community.

14 (21m 33s):
We used our logo, basically our name and the relationship we've built with their community to say, yeah, we did that.

2 (21m 40s):
I didn't do anything. And you know, it's people like Syria that have had to do the work of rebuilding that trust with black and Latino communities across Philadelphia, you know, Andrea's is not doing that work. The health commissioner resigned. He's not doing that work. So it's the people in these community groups who are doing the work of rebuilding that trust, even though they were the ones who were betrayed to begin with,

1 (22m 5s):
Not to mention that this could have increased vaccine skepticism among, you know, an already skeptical segment of the population. Do you have any idea if this made people more reluctant to get the shot in the city or the state,

2 (22m 19s):
It's hard to draw a direct line from the Philly fighting COVID scandal to, you know, people who are feeling hesitant about getting vaccinated now. But what I think you can say on a broader level is that people rely on their public health agencies and just on government agencies in general, to provide them with services and follow through. And when they screw up, the more they screw up, the less confidence people have in those agencies and in the healthcare system as a whole, A lot of people are probably harboring false beliefs about the vaccine efficacy or safety.

2 (23m 0s):
And you know, they're doing that on their own accord, but for some of them it's probably because they've seen stuff like what happened with Philly fighting COVID and they say, well, that seems like a sham. And so the more real shams you see, the easier it is to believe that nothing's to be trusted.

1 (23m 26s):
Nina Feldman is a reporter at w H Y Y public radio in Philadelphia. She hosts a five-part podcast on this very saga it's out in the world right now it's called half Vaxxed vacs like B a X, X, E D, half Vaxxed. You can get all the juicy details. We couldn't fit into this episode. There we use music from half VAX. In our episode today, it was composed by max Marin. Our episode was produced by miles Bryan and a little disclosure miles is in a long-term relationship with w H Y Y reporter Nina Feldman. In fact, they just got engaged, mazel Tov.

1 (24m 8s):
I'm Sean Rama's for off Monday for indigenous people's day back Tuesday with more today explained