1 (23s):
And the Oscar goes to Shakespeare in Love. Picture and Untouchable Titan at one point Harvey Weinstein was the King of New York and La. Wow, this is just fantastic. Thank you to the members of The Academy. He was a Powerhouse when it came to channeling

2 (54s):
both Prestige and Commercial Appeal. He's that kind of defined the 90s in particular

1 (60s):
the other guy. Really need to think that was Harvey Weinstein who had the guts the Courage the commitment to make this picture and get it done period and he was also somebody who was known kind of as a character.

2 (1m 13s):
He was pugnacious people wrote about his temper, but they wrote about a kind of admiringly

1 (1m 20s):
Marc Gill and Marcy Granada, who are the one and two most Dynamite marketing team brother Bob. I'm getting there. Okay.

2 (1m 30s):
I don't know we made some He's like an old Studio

1 (1m 32s):
boss life and art and art and life combining is called Magic

2 (1m 37s):
for me. The you know, there were there were public jokes about his behavior towards women.

1 (1m 42s):
Congratulations. You five ladies no longer have to pretend to be attracted to Harvey Weinstein. There were Whispers.

2 (1m 50s):
But what we now know is that Harvey Weinstein employed basically an army to keep stories about him that were unfavorable out of the press until the fall of 2017. When first the New York Times with Megan to me and Jody Cantor publishing allegations of sexual harassment New York Times quotes Weinstein is

1 (2m 11s):
saying I came of age in the 60s and 70s when all the rules about behavior and workplaces where different that was the culture. Then and now one of the most powerful men in

2 (2m 20s):
Hollywood says he is taking a leave of

1 (2m 22s):
absence to quote conquer his

2 (2m 23s):
demons the moment where I thought well maybe this time something will be different is when that first New York Times story came out and Ashley Judd went on the record and he just started

1 (2m 32s):
in on me right away. Can I give you a massage? You must be so tired? It's like no you may not. I don't know how I had the Moxie to stand there and say no no, no, No, and then he asked me if I would watch him take a

2 (2m 50s):
shower. So a famous actress saying Harvey Weinstein sexually harassed me was something that we had not seen before and I think that actually opened the door for a lot of other women to feel comfortable because Ashley Judd is somebody who is well known and well established and very quickly many other famous actresses joined Ashley Judd and putting their names to stories women like Gwyneth, Paltrow, Angelina Jolie talking about 10 sexual advances from Harvey Weinstein and when the New Yorker started publishing its reporting it included deeply serious criminal allegations of sexual assault including by actresses like Annabelle Ashura the actress saying Weinstein forced his way into her New York apartment after a business dinner.

2 (3m 36s):
He shoved me onto the bed and he got on top of me adding I kicked and I yelled but Weinstein overpowered her he went from being a well-respected movie Mogul who? Maybe wasn't in his prime. But but you know was it was in the firmament to losing control of his company which has since declared bankruptcy to having a hundred plus perhaps women accuse him of sexual harassment and assault and though me to hashtag me to did not begin with Harvey Weinstein, you know this hashtag that Toronto Burke had created it really exploded with him with the kind of reporting in depth of the secrets that so many.

2 (4m 17s):
Had kept for Harvey Weinstein this pattern of predation that so many people described. A lot of people were inspired to share their own stories at so in a way it was kind of the Kindle that Lit the me to movement and now a little over two years after those first allegations were published. He's going to face accountability in a court of

1 (4m 40s):
law.

2 (4m 43s):
Here in Carmen you've done tons of reporting on me to at New York Magazine. Let's talk about this long-awaited first trial of Harvey Weinstein that began in New York City this week. So out of a hundred women who have made public complaints against Harvey Weinstein only two will have their cases heard in this New York trial. However prosecutors have figured out a way to try to mimic the effects of me to which was to create so many. Voices that it's harder to ignore the pattern and so prosecutors are actually going to bring to testify at least four other women again, whose cases he's not being tried for a New York to testify to Harvey Weinstein's character and to what they say is a pattern of predation.

1 (5m 31s):
Both of my clients in this case have been very brave very courageous. They're willing to testify under oath to tell the truth the whole truth and nothing but the truth so help them

2 (5m 41s):
God. So in the trial were expected to hear from at least six women again, this is in flux, but we know that Annabella sure is scheduled to testify to say that Harvey Weinstein raped her and in many ways. This is the most significant testimony that doesn't come from one of the women whose cases are directly at issue because New York has a statute known as predatory sexual assault. It can carry 10 years to life in sentencing. It is the most serious. Charge of which Harvey Weinstein has been indicted and in order to establish that charge prosecutors have to show that there's a pattern of predatory behavior and embellish your a describes events that happened in 1993 and 1994 that is outside of the statute of limitations that's in effect for her allegations.

2 (6m 32s):
And so prosecutors have sought to find a way to use Annabelle assures account to establish predatory sexual assault without directly charging in and what they hope is that the jury will hear first from these three women who haven't been identified and hear about Harvey Weinstein's quote prior bad acts to hear about them talk about his modus operandi and then to hear Annabelle assure talk about it's a really painful story. If you go back and you read Ronan Farrow story in the New Yorker about what an embellished you are describes its haunting and she also says in that original story.

2 (7m 12s):
That after the first reports came out about Harvey Weinstein people said, well, you know, it's some passes that he made but it's not violent rape and she said well what happened to me was violent rape and she didn't end up pursuing criminal charges at the time. Did anyone try and take this to criminal court before these cases that are being heard right. Now the one woman who we know of who had made a criminal complaint against Harvey Weinstein and 2015 robot Ilana Gutierrez, who was 22 years old when she said that Harvey Weinstein sexually assaulted her and she immediately went to the NYPD. So again, this is textbook what we tell victims and survivors to do go to the police. So she goes to the police and she agrees to wear a wire and then captured on tape is him kind of this quote-unquote coercive bargaining that he's doing to try to get her to go into the hotel

1 (8m 3s):
room. I'm used to that but I'm not used to that

2 (8m 19s):
all of this was presented to the New York da and was not considered enough to bring charges. And that is it appears in part because there was a successful campaign waged against rebuttal on has passed. So the tabloids and the powerful people that Harvey Weinstein hired as part of his is team including Rudy Giuliani and the former head of the sex crimes division of the Manhattan DA's Linda ferrocene all of them pressuring the da Cyrus Vance Jr. Who still the district attorney in Manhattan not to bring charges and it worked and she eventually signed an NDA hmm getting back to these cases that opened in New York this week first things voir dire jury selection.

2 (9m 6s):
How is that going? So it's a challenge anytime you have jury selection in a case that Has been so high profile and for so long immediately on the first day of jury selection at least 40 people asked to be dismissed because they say they cannot be objective and assessing Harvey Weinstein's guilt. One of the questions that potential jurors were asked is whether they themselves or someone close to them has been a victim of assault and you know, the this many of these are factors that come into play for any kind of assault jury selection sexual assault jury selection, but of course with a man like Mike Harvey Weinstein who has become synonymous with me too. I think the challenges are extra.

2 (9m 47s):
It's one of the reasons that Harvey Weinstein's legal team sought to get the trial moved although you could argue that there are few corners of American life that have not heard about the allegations against Harvey Weinstein. how to defend Harvey Weinstein in a minute on today explained Hey everyone, so I know you know all about Vox podcast because I talk about him all the time you listen to one right now.

2 (10m 42s):
I know you know about boxes Netflix show explain but Vox is also just getting into the regular like narrative TV game right now. You can find a show called Little America on Apple TV plus only in America Dia odd tax after you see the ticket Place only in America can such a path like the game exists face board

1 (11m 5s):
hamburgers. These Burgers bacon chili cheeseburger everything on top of everything only in America.

2 (11m 17s):
Middle America comes from the people who brought you the big sick and master of none. It tells 8 extraordinary true stories of immigrants coming to America people from Syria. Uganda Mexico Nigeria. These stories are funny romantic their heartfelt and inspiring and who couldn't use a little bit of that right now Little America is live. Now, you can find it on the Apple TV app or go straight to T V Dot apple.com The show is called Little America 8 episodes check him out now.

2 (11m 56s):
Hey, it is Ezra Klein and I want to tell you about an exciting episode because our client show you can listen to now and episode literally years in the making it is a special excerpt of my new book. Why were polarized which is coming out on Tuesday, January 28th, the book explores the structural and psychological Dimensions behind the way American politics has changed and polarized what it has done to our institutions, but importantly what it is doing to us. So I hope you enjoy it and you can listen to it by subscribing to the Ezra Klein show right now for free in your favorite podcast app it to hear a special excerpt from the book. Here in you mentioned that it's hard to find people who haven't heard about the allegations against Harvey Weinstein or who haven't been Touched By An Occurrence of sexual assault in their lives or the lives of people.

2 (12m 47s):
They know what exactly is the defense that Harvey Weinstein's legal team is preparing here. So Harvey Weinstein has had to replace his lawyers or chosen to replace his lawyers multiple times. The reporting has been that this is because he micromanages his attorneys. They've complained that they don't get paid on time. He has argued with them about strategy, but he is currently primarily represented by a woman named Donna were to know who's based in Chicago and there's some other lawyers on the team, but she's been the most visible one and she's acknowledged that she thinks one of the reasons that Harvey hired her is because she's a woman

1 (13m 25s):
I'm absolutely certain that that was part of it and I think it was probably a good

2 (13m 28s):
move and she's somebody who has represented many men who are accused of sexual assault in the The past although never a case this high-profile what Donna were to know has said and she said this in ABC News interviews and to Vanity Fair and other places is that she said if Weinstein is convicted then we'll have a world in which women will never be asked out on a date and never get the door held open for them. Wow. Really? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, of course Harvey Weinstein is accused of rape and sexual assault not opening the door for women, but I think what's really interesting about the arguments that Donna route to know has made on Half of Harvey Weinstein so far is the extent to which they're pushing back at the cultural shift, right?

2 (14m 10s):
They're not making a legal Claim about the evidence at least not in the court of public opinion. Of course, you will have to in the court of law, but the defense so far has been similar to the kind of me to has gone too far. What about romance? What about romance? She told Vanity Fair that if Harvey's convicted and women won't be asked on dates and Men won't hold doors open for Them and then simultaneously were to know has made the argument in interviews that these women entered into a transaction with Harvey Weinstein. Willingly. You have to know that when you make

1 (14m 45s):
certain choices, there's a risk when you make those choices, but a lot of people would say what you just said is victim blaming and that's absolutely not true. If you don't want to be a victim don't go to the hotel room and if you don't want to be a victim don't sign an NDA then go out on the 5th Avenue take a megaphone and talk about what you want to talk

2 (15m 3s):
about now. Of course, she denies that these women are victims, but she also said that which you know the notion that that these women knew that the price of working as a production assistant in the case of one of the women or aspiring to be an actress that that necessarily means that they have abdicated their right to consent to sex that might be tough to convince a jury, but at the same time if my Twitter mentions are any indication there are plenty of people who are willing to believe that that women would go through this. Credibly excruciating process of the Criminal Justice System just because they regret agreeing to have sex with Harvey Weinstein for a job.

2 (15m 43s):
So essentially what you're saying here is that the defense for Harvey Weinstein leading up to this trial has been to put me to itself on trial. Yes. I think that's right in like the public eye. Yeah, absolutely. And you know, I think it Taps into people's real anxiety about the scale of social change that's happened in the last two years and again at work of Journalism can draw on nuance and it can draw on context and hundreds of women are dozens of women and experts and there are going to be experts to testify at the trial But ultimately the jury is going to have to decide do I believe these two women when they say they were assaulted and not do I believe that there were dozens of others the defense that romance might be dead if Harvey Weinstein is convicted is I mean so obviously ridiculous that it's hard to take seriously, but does his defense team have a credible argument that so much of what's come out is going to precondition jurors against their client or that a lot of the public opinion on Harvey Weinstein has been shaped by stories that essentially put him on trial in the public eye before he had his day in court.

2 (17m 0s):
So I think it's up to the judge to make sure that the trial is as fair and offers as much due process it as possible historically wealthy white men have not been at a disadvantage and if you need any example, you can look at all of the ways that Harvey Weinstein has evaded being in this exact courtroom. And so I think it's an important tension, of course Harvey Weinstein has a right To a defense he has a right to due process. But I also think swinging it too far into Harvey Weinstein has been victimized by the system when he still has enormous resources at his disposal and in the broader context of who is often disadvantaged by the criminal justice system, whether that's people of color poor people, I think it would be a mistake to apply that larger societal critique as as long as you're making sure that this case is being handled with as much procedural neutrality as possible.

2 (18m 2s):
What else is Harvey Weinstein and and his defense team been doing with all the resources. They have at their disposal. Well, you know, I had an interesting experience when we went for comment for this New York Magazine story Judah ankle Meyer who is the most recent of a kind of Carousel of PR people that Harvey Weinstein has worked with sent me a Page Power Point called the proper narrative for addressing the Harvey Weinstein case. And in it it lays out bullet points against the women who have made charges and against women who have made other kinds of allegations.

2 (18m 43s):
For example, it argues that one of the women must have consented because she opened the door to Harvey in her nightgown and it includes text messages between Harvey Weinstein and an unnamed quote-unquote prominent person claiming that one of the women accused him of rape because it quote got her an agent at CAA. Which is a major Hollywood agency. There is also a section at the end that claims that Harvey has quote a huge heart. It lists some of his charitable contributions. The document says that part of Harvey Weinstein's social contributions that should be considered as he stands trial for rape and sexual assault is that he made many socially important commercial failures and some of the movies that are included there are movies.

2 (19m 32s):
Is about sexual assault and the criminal justice system and lgbtq people. So that's what Harvey Weinstein's public relations team as opposed to his legal team is presenting in his defense. Very considerate of them to spend all that time on a PowerPoint. What are the consequences Harvey Weinstein's facing here if Harvey Weinstein is convicted. He could spend a couple of years in prison or if he's convicted of the most serious charge. He's potentially looking at a life sentence Harvey Weinstein also is facing charges in Los Angeles that will carry their own penalties if he's convicted and I believe there's an ongoing investigation in London as well.

2 (20m 12s):
And even if Harvey Weinstein win, Ins all these court cases. Do you think he already lost a bigger moral social battle since the initial allegations against him led to so many more, you know, I've been on this beat for a long time and I've thought a lot about why this was the story that triggered so many others, you know, I was I was able to report an investigative story that was made possible that I had tried to do seven years earlier only because of what happened after the Harvey Weinstein stories came out and this was about Charlie Rose. Yes, so, you know a dam burst because of the reporting about Harvey Weinstein and and as I think about why it might have been the story that allowed so many other people to feel like they could tell their story.

2 (20m 59s):
I think it might be because we couldn't attached to these famous actresses the same kinds of myths that we often attached to people who come forward. She's just trying to be famous. She just wants money. She's lying because she regrets it. It these are women with whom we already the American public already has the kind of emotional relationship from watching them on screen and following their lives in People magazine, and that's weekly and Instagram and it's kind of tragic that other people were not believed. It is tragic that other people were not believed but I think we attached so many myths to people who come forward about being assaulted that to have these people who we've never seen this Out of them.

2 (21m 46s):
We've never seen that kind of vulnerability be the voice of it in the beginning I think is really important. I thank those testifying for standing not just for themselves, but for all of

1 (22m 0s):
us who will never have even one day in court

2 (22m 5s):
today is a day for us to honor how far we've

1 (22m 8s):
come and how much we've endured to get here.

2 (22m 17s):
I think it would be really meaningful. If there were a criminal conviction in this case against Harvey Weinstein because it would tell people that something is different from when he was investigated. And even though there was a recording of him admitting to the assault. Nothing happened that said, you know the rules of criminal procedure really challenging really complex. There may be other trials. He might not be convicted in wanting might be convicted in another. But I don't think we can take any cultural change for granted. But I do think that the conversations are more nuanced more complex. We have a greater range of Stories We have greater amount of voices of people telling their stories.

2 (22m 59s):
We've complicated it. We've ripped open some of these the scar tissue that was hiding these open wounds. We have exposed some of the systemic leavers that especially wealthy powerful men use to cover up their behavior. Everyone stay. He's obviously just one of them and so I think there's no going back on that part of

1 (23m 19s):
it. Iran Carmen is a senior correspondent at New York Magazine. I'm Sean Rama's. From this is today explained.