3 (5s):
It's Thursday, March 26th, 2020 and the Senate unanimously agreed on something. I'm Sean Rama's firm and this is your coronavirus update from today explained 96 United States senators voted in favor of an 880 page two trillion dollar stimulus package late on Wednesday. We made an entire episode about what's included yesterday, but The big news for people earning up to 75k a year is checks from $1,200. The big news for wealthy corporations is a 500 billion dollars slush fund. The house is expected to pass its own version of the bill tomorrow. After that.

3 (45s):
It's over to President Trump's desk for Sharpie time. Unemployment numbers came in from the labor department today and they were staggering in a history-making kind of way 3.3 million Americans filed for unemployment benefits. It's last week for context in well over a half century of collecting unemployment data, the highest number of claims ever recorded with something like 700,000 in October of 1982 from Grim To Grim more than 1,000 people have now died as a result of covid-19 in the United States New York is now reporting close to 40,000 confirmed cases, but keep in mind the true number of cases is expected to be much much higher.

3 (1m 30s):
Fire Louisiana has far fewer cases confirmed at the moment something like 2,000 but the governor there says his state is experiencing the fastest growth of new cases in the world right now potentially due to Mardi Gras festivities from a few weeks ago. Meanwhile, the president continues his campaign to get the country back to business as usual. He tweeted on Wednesday. The lamestream media is the dominant Force trying to get me to keep our country closed as long as possible. In the hope that it will be detrimental to my election success. So lame get in touch with today explained called two zero two six eight eight five nine, four four with any questions about the coronavirus or email today explained at vox.com.

3 (2m 16s):
Also, we are on Twitter at today underscore explained. I'm a traumas firm. Nationwide 5G is here. Thanks to T-Mobile. They just build the first largest and only Nationwide 5G Network in America. Nobody else comes close T-Mobile's invested billions of dollars that's billions with Abby and new 5G towers and cell sites across the country making their signal more reliable both indoors and out find out more about T-Mobile's Nationwide 5G Network at t - mobile.com.

3 (2m 55s):
That's t - mobile.com capable device. Quack coverage not available in some areas downlink. Only some uses may require certain plan or feature CT - mobile.com New York City has become the center of the coronavirus crisis in the United States and the hospital's there are nearing capacity one general medicine residents at Elmhurst Medical Center in Queens told the New York Times the situation there was apocalyptic the work of healthcare Professionals in these hospitals has never been more important. So it's crucial that they stay safe at work and once their shifts end

1 (3m 34s):
go home throw my clothes in the laundry run them right now and You know take a shower.

3 (3m 41s):
Dr. Calvin sun is an ER doctor in New York City who's been picking up shifts in emergency rooms across the city kind of like a freelancer for matters of life or death. I asked him what life's been like during this crisis.

1 (3m 54s):
Usually I've come in and there's stretchers lining down the block by EMS or walk through the waiting room and it's jam-packed probably all with presumed covid-19 positive. Patients all spreading it to each other one another not really social distancing. When I entered the emergency room. I already have emergency room filled with stretchers in the hallways outside the rooms. Most of them are Nancy rooms in New York City don't even have like dedicated rooms with doors. It's essentially one giant room with curtains and patients only separated by curtains emergency medicine physicians and nurses and staff and PAs mid-level providers Advanced Care practitioners nurses are all in the center and we're Brandon together in a small space and we try to see as many patients as possible and doing our best to get people who don't need to be there out of the hospital as soon as possible.

1 (4m 47s):
So don't infect themselves, right the longer you're exposed to covid-19 the more likely going to get it. So it's essentially think of like a burning building and we're trying to get as many people out of this burning building before it collapses covid-19 can be airborne. It's aerosolizing while you sneeze you cough or you intubate somebody it then goes in the air and you can survive in the air for three hours and we are breathing in this. Are especially under the context of not being provided enough protective personal equipment like a 95 masks to be able to prevent ourselves from getting sick.

3 (5m 25s):
Let's talk more about protective personal equipment or PPE like those n95 masks. You said you don't have enough of because there's been a lot of talk about shortages, right? I mean and these aren't fancy. Masks I bought a bunch at Home Depot last year. Do you have

1 (5m 42s):
enough we're supposed to be switching out n95 masks per patient. However, there are so few n95 masks or just masks in general that we have to use one single mask over the course of many days over many days many days. Yes. I've worn the same n95 mask for about five days before I was able to get a donation from my friends. Just recently I was wearing My personal protective goggles that I had to steal from a bundle kit from another ER that worked in that was a supposed to be a disposable goggles. I've kept that one for about eight to nine days until my brother gave me his goggles yesterday and a face shield that was meant to be disposed with his plastic flimsy pay face shield that I got a week and a half ago.

1 (6m 30s):
I still have the paint's wearing off on the

3 (6m 32s):
front wait, you're taking your n95 mask home with you like the mask that you use to. Protect yourself from all these patients who might have covid-19.

1 (6m 42s):
Yeah, I my stuff is right now isn't it oven? You know because just today somebody said well if you don't have a UV light, which is one Theory to disinfect old and 95 masks try putting in a hot environment that's over 70 degrees Celsius or like a hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit.

3 (6m 60s):
Wow. I'm guessing this isn't conventional practice.

1 (7m 3s):
Yeah today was a finally a fresh batch, but I'm still reusing stuff because I never know when it's gonna run out again. Or

3 (7m 9s):
is this just a you problem because you're kind of like a an ER freelancer or are like the full timers who work at these hospitals you go to every day going through this to

1 (7m 20s):
no emergency room. I had no of in New York City has enough personal protective equipment for their entire staff on a unlimited police adequate amount for this pandemic.

3 (7m 34s):
It sounds bush-league. I mean are you telling me that you you you wear the same mask? Same goggles, same plastic face shield all day in these hospitals dealing with covid-19 patients and then take it home and go back to work and put that same stuff on again the next day.

1 (7m 48s):
Yes for the last two weeks. I went in was able to get a mask on the early stage of the pandemic, but seeing the writing on the wall. I decided to play it safe and then keep that mask after my shift instead of throwing it out and you know, rinse and repeat for Or the face shield and the goggles anything I got was worth its weight in gold and I kept it until just yesterday. I got a huge batch of personal donations from friends and family who came back to my apartment. They literally handed to me and ran away giving the what I'm exposed to and now I have a batch where I can give it to my staff members who've been trying to survive on the same mask in my situation. But only after I went on my social media for two weeks calling for help, it took two weeks.

1 (8m 32s):
What could have happened those two weeks I could have Exposed other people going to exposed thank God they came out together, but it shouldn't be coming from them

3 (8m 40s):
and that the doctors and nurses you're working with are reusing

1 (8m 43s):
masks to I mean, I used to bring doughnuts and coffee and pizza for my residents and PAs and nurses and nurse practitioners. Now I bring in masks today are this morning brought in by donations from my friends and oh my God people were just taking two or three at a time putting their pockets. Yeah. It's like A lottery that we don't want to play but we're forced to play.

3 (9m 10s):
How long can you and your fellow doctors in New York? Keep this

1 (9m 14s):
up? I think if things don't change I think in about one or two weeks, it may collapse collapse how we don't have enough beds. We don't have enough ventilators. We don't have any room patients will have to go outside and and then and then you're going to have to enact New York State's ventilator. Lines that they published on their website and November 2015 health NY dot-gov I think has its public on the ethical decision making that goes into deciding who gets to get a ventilator or breathing machine to live and who you get palliative Compassionate Care without a ventilator. Do you know how it works

3 (9m 54s):
who gets to live and who dies

1 (9m 56s):
it is impossible to expect every single clinician to unilaterally decide who gets to live and who gets to die. That's Unfair because not all of us have that experience or training in rationing care, it goes to a committee in a committee of ethicists, you know administrators and doctors takes in the clinical assessment that is provided by the people on the ground and then decides whether they get a ventilator or not. We haven't crossed that bridge there. I think it is Hospital dependent and once we get to that point, I'll get a better idea of what the parameters are

3 (10m 30s):
the governor of your state seems to be taking this pretty seriously he's been Asking for military intervention and more help from the federal government for a while now, but the president seems to be you know. Urging the country towards moving past this to having everyone in the clear by Easter. I mean if you could talk to the president today, what would you say to

1 (10m 54s):
him? I would say this is not your lane. You don't know what it's like to be in the trenches taking care of all these patients who are young and healthy who may die from this who have spread to other people. You don't know what it's like to come into the emergency room and know that automatically you're exposed to this virus that you can bring home to your Only members so this is not something that you should comment on.

3 (11m 17s):
What do you most need right now?

1 (11m 20s):
We need the military. We need Federal support FEMA. We need disaster infrastructure to be put in place and build a new hospital from scratch with covid-19 only patients with negative pressure rooms, you activate the millions and millions and millions of dollars that you get when you declare National emergency and you put those millions and millions and millions of dollars into building. Being a hospital basically anyone with covid-19 gets the best care the best clinicians all gowned up in Hazmat Tyvek bunny suits head to toe. So we're all protected taking care of these patients the best ability get enough ventilators to take care of the patients that need them and make sure nobody dies then we develop a vaccine by then and in everyone becomes immune.

1 (12m 5s):
Once we vaccinate everyone like we did with chick smallpox. We have the money for it. We have the resources for it, but does someone want to pull the Bigger and activate all those things. I sense a lot of reluctance because we have developed a habit of trying to find a way to cut corners and that's how we got in this problem the first place.

3 (12m 24s):
All right Calvin. Well, I really hope you get it. I really hope you all get what you need to stay safe and keep other people healthy as

1 (12m 33s):
well. Well, I'm so too because if we don't in one or two weeks the system will collapse and I want to say that is that we will all get sick rights couple of my colleagues are on life support. I'm filling in shifts for fallen sick colleagues knowing that I might be next and if there's enough of me who get sick and it might be my knight urn who's going to be around to take care of you who's left?

3 (13m 34s):
Listen, you're about to hear a ton about 5, G or you priority have you'll hear about how fast it is and how it's poised to revolutionize the way we communicate but the thing you really need to know T-Mobile's 5G Network covers more Americans and more cities than anyone else T-Mobile's invested billions of dollars in new towers and cell sites with range. That can't be be because T-Mobile understands that owning the latest tech and means nothing if your network doesn't have you covered so while other signals are getting blocked by Those in walls T-Mobile's Nationwide 5G network is reaching more Americans wherever they are because they want people to experience it T-Mobile is a 5 G Trailblazer.

3 (14m 15s):
You can be to find out more about T-Mobile's first best Nationwide 5G Network at t - mobile.com. That's t - mobile.com capable device required coverage not available in some areas downlink. Only some uses may require certain plan or feature CT - mobile.com Country Crock is now making a dairy-free plant-based butter that actually tastes like Dairy butter these new plant butter sticks cook and bake just like Dairy butter to like you can definitely use it for all you're stress-baking needs plus the production of Country Crock plant butter results in less than half the carbon footprint of dairy butter production treat your body and the planet a little better and try Country Crock plant butter.

3 (15m 2s):
It's so good. Butter lovers love it find a store near you at Country Crock.com plant - butter and see what all the plant-based hype is about. Dr. Jim Hamblin doesn't practice medicine anymore. But he writes about it for the Atlantic and way back in January. He published an article bluntly titled. We don't have enough masks. Yeah, this level of pandemic has been modeled and warned about as a very real possibility and yet our country did not invest in the preparation would be required for it.

3 (15m 42s):
And why don't we have enough of these masks to begin with don't we have like a Stockpile or a reserve or something? We're bad at preparation. We have a tough time allocating funds to potential problems except for the military. We like to pay for huge military, but the stockpile was started as a way of saying, you know, if there's a biological warfare attack on the country and we run out of masks or antibiotics or ventilators anything we could need in that scenario. We should have those kind of Hidden Away around the country and then H1N1 hit which was not an attack, but it was just an outbreak and we went through a vast majority of our masks at that time.

3 (16m 25s):
There are some restocking but the warning sign that should have been there that said hey we almost used this up. What if something much worse hit us that didn't make it home and and why these n95 masks these are like surgical masks plus Carpenters use them I use them when I'm cleaning my house. Like what is it about? It's so essential to health care workers. These are the kind of masks that allow you to get right up in someone's face while they're coughing and put a tube down their throat to ventilate them keep them alive, which is obviously a super high risk scenario. You don't mean we're being told to stand six feet away from somebody who's not even coughing and you're asking a doctor nurse to get their face right up near someone who's definitely sick.

3 (17m 11s):
They need to be changed regularly and ideally disposed of right after you use I mean, that's the Under protocol without it there almost certainly Contracting the virus and even if they don't personally get very sick. They would be spreading it to other people. They see to the rest of the staff and if the doctor decides to take a risk, they might have to go into isolation or quarantine later or get sick or be totally out of the workforce. So the Whole Health Care System breaks down if we don't have this PPE during a pandemic, we just heard from a doctor who says that he's been using the same mask over and over for days and is putting In his oven when he gets home at night to disinfect it. It's shocking probably ill-advised.

3 (17m 52s):
A lot of people have been calling on President Trump to use this defense production act to ramp up production of masks. What is that act exactly for people who are unfamiliar? This is a Korean war-era thing that is not used except in the most extreme circumstances, but it's sort of Marchin rights for the government to go and say to a private company. Hey we need you to do. Do something right now, you're going to turn this Auto Factory into making ventilators and it actually works out kind of well because that auto Factory probably wasn't going to sell a lot of cars right now anyway, and if they could stay in business by making ventilators, it's kind of win-win and the president can order places to stop making for example clothes and figure out how to make these masks will be invoking the defense production act just in case we need it.

3 (18m 42s):
In other words. I think you all know what

1 (18m 43s):
it is and it can do a lot of

3 (18m 46s):
Good things if we need it, it sounds like he doesn't know what it is. It's hard to believe anything that he says because he's lied so consistently and he's indicated that hasn't been invoked. Then sort of said that it doesn't need to be because places are doing this already voluntarily using it's actually a big deal. I mean when this was announced it said Tremors through our business community and through our country because basically what are you doing? You're talking about you're going to nationalize. Industry or you're going to Nationals you're going to take away companies. You're going to tell companies what to do. The truth is most people nobody would know where to start but then FEMA director said otherwise on Tuesday indicated that it was being invoked.

3 (19m 30s):
So just a little while ago my team came in and we're

1 (19m 31s):
actually going to use the DPA for the first time today. There's some test kits we need to get our hands on and the second thing we're going to do is go to insert some language into these

3 (19m 41s):
Mass contract we have for the 500 million Mass

1 (19m 44s):
DPA lands will be in that today. Day, so we're going to use it. We're gonna use it when we need it and we're going to use it today.

3 (19m 49s):
What should be happening is that it should be invoked to its fullest potential to get these masks to people because without them there is no Health Care System. We can have all the ventilators we want we could have all the doctors, but if you can't protect them, it's a played-out analogy, but you're sending soldiers to war without guns. And of course once we get the masks if we do there is the issue you just referenced a ventilators. Also, just space. How is this situation looking not just in New York, but across the country right now with with ventilators and hospital beds not good. So New York is adapting for field hospitals right now.

3 (20m 30s):
They're called field hospitals, but they're kind of just modified public spaces like the Javits Convention Center where you could go and ideally receive some care and they're calling into service or asking for volunteers from doctors who are retired and why you just said that Tackle students could graduate early and be recruited into the cause. Wow. Yeah, because we're also running out of doctors and nurses that potential certainly exists and it's hand-in-hand with the mask situation. Right? Yeah, and that supply chain of the number of providers who have can quickly break down as soon as people are don't feel safe coming to work or have sick family members at home have kids they have to take care of all these different reasons that they can't do their job as they normally would and as we heard, Dr.

3 (21m 16s):
Sun when we don't have enough masks, we lose doctors and nurses when we lose doctors and nurses. We have to start making some difficult decisions, right? Yeah, and we're already starting to make those decisions in New York are being urged not to seek care unless you are very sick and doctors are being told not to test except among people, you know, if they would require hospitalization and if they if they got a positive test, so So we're already rationing who's getting tested who can come to the ER who can wait it out at home. And so if those are rational decisions that haven't those extreme ethical challenges, but you could very quickly get into a situation and we certainly will in places around the country will get into decisions about who gets the ICU beds and who doesn't who gets to come into the hospital who doesn't even when you're in a situation where yeah under ideal circumstances.

3 (22m 13s):
I would give you a hospital bed, but but you To go over this convention center and be treated by glorified medical student and that's going to make some people very uncomfortable. I mean are we gonna get to the point where we have to let people die. I don't want to forecast here, but that's something we need to absolutely treat as a very real possibility. There are always decisions about you know, how care should be pursued when there's a 99 year old person with Advanced dementia and metastatic cancer Who develops pneumonia, you know, it's not the correct course of action to take them to the ICU.

3 (22m 56s):
It is the correct course of action to help them be comfortable. Those are discussions that we don't like to talk about but will have to be made factoring and other concerns right now, like could that bed be You know used by a 30 year old school teacher versus that ninety nine year old person and I said doctor has the two of them sitting in front of them. The decision has to be made in some way. So I think that's the level we should be thinking about right now. Yeah, I mean just hearing you present that scenario. It just feels like so foreign to our culture.

3 (23m 43s):
This is America. Yeah, we tend to ration care based on who has jobs and money. And so it makes people very uncomfortable to think about rationing care. Even if you are able to pay and even if you have insurance, there's no hospital bed for you to purchase the scary thing for me. Just being a normal working employed person who's always been able to see a doctor always been able to get into the hospital if they really needed to who will have to go to a Convention Center or a gym or hotel or be asked to stay at home and that uncertainty. Yeah, it can be terrifying to people. You know, Jim is someone who thinks about health care all the time when everyone else is is, you know quibbling about politics and everything else.

3 (24m 28s):
Do you think this might be the moment? That that America thinks about seriously rethinking the way our Health Care system works. I mean we did this episode on Tuesday all about how Taiwan and Hong Kong and Singapore handled this really well initially at least and the big reason was because they had been through SARS in a way that we hadn't and they had set up infrastructure and and they had the familiarity to deal with a problem like this and it seems like we just You weren't there. Yeah, you know you would think this would be cause for us to invest in prevention and preparation and we just passed a two trillion dollar economic stabilization act and all of that money could have just been way better spent in preparation.

3 (25m 19s):
Each dollar goes much farther when you spend it up front. A pandemic is always going to be bad. But depending on prepared you are that completely determines how much shut down has to happen. And you know South Korea barely had to shut down. They just got really out in front of the testing and tracking and they were real successful and we are not at all. Jim Hamblin is a staff writer at the Atlantic. He also hosts a brand new podcast called social distance.

3 (25m 59s):
It's all about living through this pandemic. You can find it and subscribe wherever you're listening to this right now just search for social distance. During his Daily Press Conference earlier today New York Governor. Andrew Cuomo was asked about the personal protective equipment shortage PPE equipment. And PPE is an ongoing issue right now. We do have enough PPE for the immediate future now that was very confusing to us considering what dr. Calvin sun and other New York City healthcare workers had told us so we reached out to Governor Cuomo's office for comment and the New York State Department of Health responded we remain confident that we have enough PPE in stock for the immediate need but for long-term requirements, we continue working with manufacturers and Distributors to maintain and increase our supply they did not respond to questions about whether there was enough PPE to change masks everyday or between each patient or whether there was enough PP at all, New York City hospitals.

3 (27m 8s):
We reached out to doctor's son and he replied. I hope that's not a joke. I haven't seen anything yet. It's today explained. If there was a spreadable clickable bakeable plant face butter that was better for your body and the planet what would you make with it butter cookies butter pie? That's a thing by the way, whatever. It is Country Crock plant butter makes it happen and makes it delicious Country Crock plant butter is so tasty even butter lovers love it.

3 (27m 54s):
You can use it as a one-to-one substitute for dairy butter in all of your favorite recipes and enjoy it knowing it has Percent less saturated fat than regular old dairy butter to try it for yourself. Use the store locator at Country Crock.com / plant - butter today. I see a lot of people out there on the internet talking about. Oh, I need more stuff to listen to who's got recommendations. I'm at home all day. I want podcasts. Well Have you listened to stay tuned with preach? It's all about Justice power law democracy. Probably coronavirus this point the host preet bharara.

3 (28m 35s):
He led the southern district of New York the most storied Federal prosecutor's office in the country. He's got you know, he's got a True way about him. He's got an aura he's got calm. He's got wit and he answers audience questions and speaks with the people who happen to be shaping history right now previous guests include Sally Yates Bryan Stevenson, and some guy named Pete buta judge, never heard of him. Listen now to stay tuned with preet wherever you listen to your podcast where you listen to this one right now, check out stay tuned with preet. I bet you could find it. Bye.