0 (0s):
These days, you're almost expected to leave your job every few years, even switch careers a few times, but queen Elizabeth II held that one gig for 70 years. She was Britain's longest serving Monarch and oversaw the end of her family's empire. And even though she was 96 years old, when she died yesterday, a lot of people were still shocked and a lot of people were celebrating, especially online. There was after all colonialism, the troubles, the inbreeding, the racism, the hush hushing of pedophilia, lots to dislike, but coming up on today explained what people liked, why the world's gonna be mourning queen Elizabeth II for the next days, weeks, months, years.

0 (48s):
And whether the end of her reign is also kind of the end of monarchy

1 (53s):
She's club queen

2 (59s):
Support for today's show comes from slack. If you ever wanted to send a group of your coworkers, an important document or a spreadsheet, or just a funny gift, slack can help with all of that. Slack can be your digital headquarters, bringing your teams, partners, and tools altogether in an easy to use and relentless system. Slack helps empower flexibility, automate workflows and accelerate your projects to help craft your work fast in a work from anywhere. World slack can be your one digital space for organized and efficient and relentless productivity. You can get started at slack.com/dhq slack, where the future works.

3 (1m 38s):
Hi, I'm Kara Swisher for decades. I've covered Silicon valley, Washington and Hollywood making sense of those worlds by talking directly to the people who shaped them. Elon Musk, Barack Obama, Tony Fauci, Kim Kardashian. I've had the pleasure of grilling them all. Now I'm launching a new show called the Joe Rogan experience with Kara Swisher. Just kidding. It's actually called on with Kara Swisher. And let me tell you, it is on no holds barred on the tough questions or on my opinions on with Kara Swisher launches September 26th from New York magazine and the Vox media podcast network. Just look for on with Kara Swisher in your podcast app and hit follow or subscribe

0 (2m 24s):
Today explained Sean Ram from joined by Helen Lewis from the Atlantic who wrote eloquently about the queen upon her death, much more eloquently than say R I P bozo, which was trending on Twitter in the United States. At least for some time on Thursday, I asked Helen if that surprised her

4 (2m 43s):
Well, it's not necessarily that surprising that Americans should feel some anti monarchist sentiment. You know, you did have a war to get rid of them. So I can understand that for some people in America, they might be particularly thinking, well, God, why is everyone talking about this? This is a, an inherited wealth and privilege that we tried to get away from. But I think that underestimates the level of interest that there is in the queen and, and some people therefore kind of performatively saying that they're not interested in the Royal family is kind of part of that. You know, whenever I write a story that touches on prince Harry, Meghan Markle, the queen, it always does enormous traffic in America. There is a huge level of, of interest in, in the queen. She's maybe the most famous person in the world.

4 (3m 22s):
There was an amazing start on Twitter, which I hadn't quite thought about in this way. She's been on the throne for 70 years, which is essentially a third of the time that the modern American state has existed. You know, it speaks to the fact that why this is such a big moment is that for most people in Britain's lives, whole lives, she has been there. And on the throne,

0 (3m 40s):
I guess one slight pushback on, on that argument is that, you know, for a lot of people may seem like she just kind of sat there for 70 years and, you know, waved her hand and did some ceremony, did the PO and circumstance, do you think people are missing something?

4 (3m 55s):
I think that's pushback because I think to some extent, she used to say, you know, I have to be seen to be believed. So there is a huge role for monarchy that is literally about symbolism. It is about being a kind of symbol of continuity and stability in the country without then necessarily doing anything. And one of the reasons for her enduring popularity was because she didn't get involved in political fights. She exemplified Britishness in a way that was not left wing or right wing, not conservative or liberal. So she was a kind of above the fray in that sense, you know, she didn't talk about her political opinions. She was just somebody who was there to go and open new museums and railway lines and do walkabouts. That was specifically to her, the point of being a constitutional Monarch,

0 (4m 38s):
Remind us when she ascended to the throne,

4 (4m 40s):
She centered the throne in 1952. Her father was the second son of the previous king. So hadn't been expected to take the throne, but his elder brother, Edward VIII abated the throne for an American divorcee in 1936. So that then leapfrogged her to being the, the heir to the throne.

5 (4m 59s):
And the throne passes to king Edward, the eighth younger brother and his wife, whom we have known and loved for so long as the Royal highnesses, the duke and Duchess of York to the new sovereign king Albert I first and queen Elizabeth and to the little lady who is now heir to the throne long life and all happiness,

4 (5m 16s):
She was then brought up the expectation. You know, if a brother had come along, she would've been kicked out of the succession, but she only had a younger sister. And so she lived through the war as a very visible symbol.

6 (5m 28s):
And we are trying to, to bear our own share of the danger and sadness of war. We know every one of us, but in the end all will be well for God, will care for us and give us victory and peace.

4 (5m 47s):
She was essentially a girl scout. She trained to be an army mechanic. And then she started to deputize for her father came George the six because he, he was always in quite bad health by that point. And she was on a Royal tour to Kenya. When the news came through that he had in fact died. You know, she was a young queen. It was seen as this kind of moment of great renewal for the country that after having lived through the war, there would be a kind of sense of national renewal and a new chapter and a new kind of birthday for the country with this young woman on the throne.

0 (6m 21s):
And as a young queen who spent most of her life, not expecting to ever be in this position, was she chiefly learning on the job?

4 (6m 30s):
Well, she had a strange education. She never went to school. She always had governances. So she had, I guess, what I was call a very rigid and education, right? The kind of things that a young lady would've learned in previous eras,

7 (6m 42s):
I ride, I paint, I sing, I dance, I can divide and multiply. I even construct my own hats.

4 (6m 52s):
And so, yeah, there are things you can probably only learn by doing it. And there are things that she had to learn all the way along, her reign, particularly dealing with the media, which changed enormously. You know, when she took over the throne, the media was incredibly deferential to politicians, as well as monarchy. And, you know, by the time we get up to 20, 22, I don't think any of us would argue that that is the case anymore. And quite the way it was now, I think the monarchy gets a hell of a lot more difference than politicians, but it's still nothing compared to, to the way that it was treated in the 1950s,

0 (7m 23s):
What was the first major test of her reign over the British empire?

4 (7m 29s):
I think the decolonization process was challenging for the British monarchy and she was instrumental in embracing the idea of the Commonwealth, becoming something new, becoming a kind of club of people who wanted to be there rather than had been forced to be there. I went back and looked at the brochure for the coronation of the queen in 1953. And on the first page are all these coats of arms of countries that no longer exist. So Aiden, which is now part of Yemen Bechuanaland, which is now Botswana Southern Redia, which is now Zimbabwe salon, which is now Sri Lanka Basui land, which is now LASU SAAC, which is now part of Malaysia, British Honduras, which is now Belize Swanland, which is now Tini.

4 (8m 10s):
You know, so this is a kind of story about a world that doesn't exist anymore. And some of those countries have more happy relationships with Britain than others. You know, some of them have very strongly turned against Britain. Some of them have come to more of an kind of an accommodation. The problems really started, I would say in the early nineties, she had what she called the Anna herbalist, the terrible year when her children started to get divorced, get into marital troubles, Windsor castle burned down for the queen. It's

8 (8m 37s):
A home, a place of family memories

9 (8m 40s):
For the world. It's a symbol of Britain, part of our national heritage.

4 (8m 43s):
And that was the point where she decided that the monarchy really had to reform itself and change. So she did a number of reforms and she started paying income tax, which classically through history, very few monarchs have voluntarily given up money, given up power. And she did both of those things actually. And then if you are familiar with the work of Peter Morgan, not just through the crane, but his earlier work, the queen that depicts very well. The problem that the Royal family had in 1997, when Diana princess of Wales died and they were quite flatfooted about how to respond to it.

10 (9m 12s):
So what would you suggest prime minister, some kind of a statement?

11 (9m 17s):
No, ma'am, I believe the moment for statements has passed.

4 (9m 22s):
They couldn't deal with this overwhelming outpouring of national morning from a family who had been taught always to kind of repress their emotions and, you know, keep a step up a lip.

12 (9m 31s):
That's the way we do things in this country quietly with dignity.

4 (9m 38s):
I think that was a moment where actually in most, in my lifetime felt that the monarchy was closest to being irrelevant or something that people felt that they were peeling away from. But that has completely changed again in the last 25 years to people coming round very strongly to the monarchy. And, you know, Republican sentiment in Britain is here, but it's, it's always been pretty low, actually. There's no really serious movement for republicanism, which isn't true in lots of other places that have the queen set of state, you know, Australia has already had at least one referendum on getting rid of the monarchy. I sense it might very well now have another in the next couple of years,

0 (10m 14s):
How do we go from the, the country feeling that the monarchies completely out of touch around the time of Diana to the country, once again, being behind the Royal family, what is it that she does?

4 (10m 26s):
Well, I think a lot of it was about the fact that people softened, particularly towards Camilla Parker balls as she was, who was prince Charles's mistress. And people felt that Diane had been very badly treated by Charles in that relationship and that she was hounded by the press after the divorce, particularly. And that's something I think that prince Harry has always felt very strongly and has seen in his own relationship with Megan Markle. He sees this terrible echo of the fact that he feels his own mother was persecuted by the press. So I think as that faded away from memory and then Charles and Camilla got married in 2005 and have been very boringly, happily as far as anyone can see married ever since, you know, no hint of anyone else, any scandal to me, the real tragedy of the Charles and Camilla's story is that I think Charles has really only loved one woman throughout his entire life, but he wasn't allowed to marry her because she was already divorced, you know, in the 1980s.

4 (11m 20s):
And I'm sure he loved Diana and he loved their children, but I think, you know, had it been okay for a future Monarch to marry a divorced woman, he would've just married Camilla and they probably would've been very happily and boringly married this entire time. So I think people have kind of softened on, on that. And that has helped when they first got married. The, the announcement was that Camilla was only gonna be known as princess cons. She was never gonna be known as princess of Wales while the queen was alive. And she was only gonna be princess Conor, not queen. And that was only when the platinum Jubilee was approaching that the queen put out a statement saying when Charles becomes king, I want Camilla to be known as, as queen. And that marks a huge rehabilitation for Camilla and kind of therefore by extension for Charles too, that, you know, he had been quite an unpopular figure.

4 (12m 5s):
And that now there was a sort of level of acceptance that he was gonna be the next king and this was gonna be his queen.

0 (12m 10s):
That being said, I mean, the queen served for 70 years. Charles is 70 something years old. He's got a long storied history of scandal and unpopularity and just being the butt of jokes in a way that his mother never really was. Is there a chance that the end of queen Elizabeth too, is thus the end of her Royal family?

4 (12m 37s):
That's something that people have been talking about for a really long time here. I'm hesitant on the basis that if you look around Europe, there are quite a few extent Royal families, and a lot of them have had their own share of scandals. You know, for example, the king as he's called the king emeritus of Spain is now actually living outside of the country because of charges related to embezzlement. There are some much more scandal played Royal families than the British Royal family who are nonetheless kind of staggering on. It would be quite a big thing for us to have a referendum. And for the Republican side to win, I would be surprised if that happens, imminently looking at public opinion now, but I think you are totally right to say the media's treatment of Charles is very different to that of his mother and the affection.

4 (13m 24s):
People feel is very different to the affection they felt for his mother. So something definitely has changed overnight with the Queen's death

1 (13m 40s):
Support

2 (13m 40s):
For today's show comes from slack. Slack knows that it doesn't matter if you're in an office or working from home, getting on the same page with your team members can be difficult. And that's why they've created a set of communication tools to help you and your teammates work together no matter where you are located here at today, explained we use the huddle feature of slack. A lot. Slack can make you more organized and efficient in an ever evolving work from anywhere world. You can bring your team's partners and tools together to empower flexibility, automate workflows and accelerate your projects with ease with slack, you can use automated features such as the famous huddle channels, clips and slack connect to enable a more flexible, productive, and even fun workflow for your company. You can get started at slack.com/dhq slack, where the future works,

13 (14m 30s):
Brain fog, anxiety, depression, according to social media, you can cure all of them by eating

14 (14m 37s):
Yogurt, unsurprisingly social media. Isn't exactly right, but there is some really exciting new science showing that what you eat can affect your mental health that what's going on in your gut literally changes your brain chemistry.

13 (14m 49s):
And that's exactly what we're getting to the bottom of on this week's episode of gastropod, the podcast that looks at boo through the lens of science and history, I'm Nicola TWI,

14 (14m 58s):
And I'm Cynthia Greyber. And this episode, we go deep to sort out the science from the social media hype. It's a story that involves some very sad mice and a cutting edge, us military experiment, but it's also news. We can all use.

13 (15m 10s):
What should you be eating to combat anxiety, depression, and more follow gastropod and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts,

15 (15m 21s):
Perhaps you would like a marmalade sandwich. I always keep one for emergencies.

16 (15m 28s):
So do I, I keep mine in here for later,

0 (15m 38s):
Helen, for, for those who are unaware, what is it even that the monarchy in England does anymore?

4 (15m 46s):
Well, it's woven into the fabric of British life in a way that I think we're probably only gonna fully realize in the next couple of days, simply because we haven't had a handover, but like, let me give you a couple of really simple example. The queen is on all of our bank notes. You know, there is someone on the other side, but the queen is on one side of all of our bank notes.

0 (16m 7s):
I grew up in Canada and she was on, on one side of all the currency there too.

4 (16m 10s):
Well, there we go. That, I mean, that is all gonna change. She's on all of our postage stamps. And so those will now be updated with Charles and he will be facing the other way, cuz it flips every time the morning changes, huh? All of our senior lawyers, our most senior lawyers are known as QCs Queens councils. So that will never become King's councils. But you know, all the way through the year, she was patron of various charities, things like the national theater, she would go and, you know, do civic stuff. She would kind of do the kind of stuff that, you know, came Harris is probably even now going and kind of seeing some community school production of something. That's the kind of thing that you know, that the queen does or has always done in, in Britain. And then she hosted a lot of garden parties in which if you had done great, you know, charity or community work, you were kind of invited to them as a reward.

4 (16m 54s):
And they, you know, I was, before you say hundreds of thousands of British people have done that over the last couple of decades of her reign. So the idea is just to be everywhere as a symbol of kind of civic national life.

0 (17m 8s):
And she's been old for an incredibly long time, how has she prepared Charles or even Charles's sons for what comes next?

4 (17m 17s):
They're a long lived family queen Victoria was on the throne 60 odd years. I'm trying to think of the exact date, 1837 to 1901. And the Queen's mother lived to 101. So, you know, it was always kind of assumed that she would probably be around for a very long time. The question has been therefore about the fact about Charles inheriting is, is he too old to inherit? You know, has he very set in his ways? He does feel like much more of a, a figure from another time in a way that William doesn't,

17 (17m 45s):
The prince Charles for example has 149 servants, 25 of them, personal staff, no maids Butler or cooks for William and Kate. So who will make the bed and butter the bread? Well, they

4 (17m 58s):
Will, there's a famous story about Charles having his toothpaste squeezed onto his toothbrush by his valet,

0 (18m 4s):
Which I just don't get. It's gotta be so much easier to do it yourself. I don't understand.

4 (18m 10s):
Yeah.

0 (18m 10s):
How do Brits feel about a king Charles at this point or a king Charles II? I should say.

4 (18m 16s):
Yeah, it's not the Regal name with the best anti Ince because Charles the first got his head cut off and then we had 10 years of a protector at, but then we invited his son back and he became Charles II. So, you know, swings and roundabouts on that one, I guess I think there's a lot of residual good will for him in the sense that he's now somebody who's who's mourning the death of their mother, I don't think will, will really be able to take a gauge on that for another couple of months simply because I think this is a huge shock to people in Britain. I know it's very unexpected for a very long time, but it, you know, it had the quality of a sort of fairytale that you couldn't really quite believe it was gonna happen. And also because there's just so much sort of stuff to get through in terms of the state funeral and then the coronation, you know, which can be that queen Elizabeth.

4 (18m 59s):
The second was crowned in 1951 after succeeding to thrown in 1952. So it just could be a huge set piece. It would take a long time to put together. And so I would think about around the time of Charles' coronation, we'll get both a much better idea of what kind of image he wants to present at the, the monarchy. You know, who is he inviting to that coronation, you know, which people are performing there. You know, what bits of the ceremony are being kind of subtly tweaked in whatever ways is it still gonna be a lot of, you know, Dukes and posh girls in lovely frocks or is, you know, or is there gonna be some attempt to be slightly more modern about it? And I think that will give you a much better idea of both of his approach and also how, whether people are genuinely enthusiastic about the idea of king Charles or whether or not this is something that we sort of need to go through because the wedding of William and Kate was a genuinely joyful occasion as was the wedding of Harry and Meghan for that, that story went sour very quickly.

4 (19m 50s):
And

18 (19m 51s):
Were you silent or were you silenced,

4 (19m 53s):
You know, there have been monarchical events in Britain that people have just generally the overwhelming sentiment has been really positive and I'm not sure that's true of the coronation, but we, we will see in G cause

0 (20m 2s):
You're presenting a scenario in which Charles does in fact embrace the job of being king after 70 some odd years. Does that mean there's no chance that he just abdicates and says you don't need another old person in this job? Here's my son and his wife who don't have a housekeeper.

4 (20m 19s):
I find it really unlikely. He has been training for this job, his entire life. And he's now taking on this job after the time in which most people have retired. Right. You know, and the notably the queen didn't abdicate it, you know, she, she absolutely could have done the queen of the Netherlands abdicated a couple of years ago. It's not unknown among modern European Royal families to do that and say, you know what, the hours are really getting to me. I've, you know, I've shaken enough hands and accepted enough bouquets from adorable little children. I, you know, I just fancy put my feet up and watching the TV, even

0 (20m 52s):
A Pope, a Pope did it in recent memory. Right,

4 (20m 56s):
Exactly. Yeah. Benedict the 16th of it. So it's, you know, it, it is an option, but again, I, I think her conception was very much that, you know, you had been anointed by God and therefore you carried on until the end and I'm whether or not Charles has exactly that view. I think it would be, I mean, there was a lot of discussion about when he, you know, which again, you'll have seen depicted on the crown. If you've watched that the Australian tour he did with Diana early on and his jealousy about the fact that people were really excited to see her and not so excited to see him the

19 (21m 24s):
Final story, honestly, putting faces horsing around. Well, I'm trying to do my job. I was blushing blushing at your compliments. People were laughing at me, laughing in my face at the end of the week, in which half of Australia has also been booing me. I don't deserve this. This is supposed to be my tour. My tour is prince of Wales to shore up one of the key countries in the Commonwealth at a very delicate moment politically. And thanks to you. Thanks to me. People have shown up. Thanks to me. People are interested. No, thanks to you. People are laughing in my face

4 (21m 52s):
And there have been persistent rumors that there have been a similar thing about William and Kate in a kind of sense of the, oh, why, why do people seem to love them? And he got very excited about them and they've never felt like this about me. So I think it'd be very, I would be very unexpected if he just did decide that he, you know, after three years, he was actually quite tired now. And he fancy to arrest when he's been rating his whole life for this opportunity. And is somebody I should say with very strong political views that he has always wanted to enact.

0 (22m 20s):
And what are those strong political

4 (22m 21s):
Views? Well, for example, he's very against modern architecture. You know, he really doesn't like brutalist architecture. If you show him some poor concrete, he's very unhappy. He sponsored these model villages in some are called Poundbury that you might say are kind of quite TWE, but you know, were very built along very traditional lines. He was always a big champion of organic food. I think that was probably paid off, you know, and he lobbied for sort of different developments in London through these series of memos, to, to ministers that were called the black spider memos because of his terrible handwriting

20 (22m 52s):
Among the issues. There was restoring huts in the, an bad calls and Patagonia to fish though. That

4 (22m 59s):
Is that experience. Yeah. So he's got strong opinions on food, on architecture, you know, not straightforwardly left, right. Political views. And I don't think he would ever get involved in a particular politicians or anything like that. But his, his ideas about sort of traditionalism, I guess, are there. And I think he'd be quite keen to kind of push them further.

0 (23m 18s):
And even those few issues on which we know he has, you know, clear political stances. That seems to be more than we knew about his mother's politics.

4 (23m 27s):
Yeah. I mean, she very deliberately cultivated this air of mystery and mystique around it. You know, there were some experiments in the sixties, seventies, eighties, even about, you know, engaging with the press. But the last thing I can really remember her being interviewed for was a Jubilee program about the crown jewels and the coronation. So there

16 (23m 44s):
Are some disadvantages to crowns, but otherwise they're quite important

4 (23m 48s):
Things. So, you know, staying way away from anything that was, you know, in any way controversial David Cameron, the former prime minister suggested that she was very, very happy that Scotland didn't go independent. And then another minister suggested that she would've backed Brexit, which I remember my colleague at the time saying, well, look, this is, you know, a woman aged over 65 with no degree. Like that is the demographic of a Brexit voter. So we shouldn't be surprised. All she said in the run up to the Scottish independence referendum, she made some comment to somebody else who was waiting for outside church queen

21 (24m 18s):
Elizabeth II also broke her silence on Sunday and urged Scotts to think very carefully about the future.

4 (24m 26s):
And this was interpreted as her saying, don't do it. Don't, don't go independent. But that was as far as she would ever gone in public to back a particular political cause. And

0 (24m 34s):
This is something that made her beloved.

4 (24m 37s):
I think it did. I think it's key to the appeal is the turning yourself into a kind of quasi-religious symbol of the nation. Something that is above politics. Some of the most sort of pat queen loving people are people in Britain who run corner shops, like our version of bodegas, right? Quite often you go into that and you'd see that people would have, you know, Diana Memorial plates or coronation mugs. And I think there's an interesting strand where sometimes recent immigrants to Britain liked the idea that there was a symbol of Britishness that was non-political and was open to everybody.

4 (25m 20s):
And you could say, yeah, I really love the queen. You know, I'm here, I'm British now. Although the Royal family is obviously an incredible symbol of privilege and elitism, there was a, a cross class cross race interest in her as a version of patriotism that was available to absolutely everybody.

0 (25m 53s):
Helen Lewis. She's a staff writer at the Atlantic. Our show today was brought to you by Aish shy artsy and had Mo Wadi with help from Amanda Lu, Ellen and Amina. AATI Paul Robert mosey mixed in mastered Matthew Colette and Serena Solan fact checked it's today. Explain.