1 (2s):
Mark Zuckerberg announced this week that meta is going to lay off around 10,000 people and will not fill 5,000 open positions in a quest to make 2023. His words a year of efficiency. It's a year of something else too. Two high profile departures in the past few months, YouTube CEO Susan Majeski and Cheryl Sandberg, the former C of Meta mean there are currently no women leading big tech companies. Big tech defined as man or Meta Apple, Amazon, Netflix, and Google. What is going on here? Susan Majeski was at Google since Google was in a garage. It was her garage and Cheryl, do not lean back, lean in Sandberg.

1 (45s):
She wrote the book and the TED talk on women Leaders in tech coming up on today explained as Silicon Valley Cuts jobs is the era of lean in. Finally over,

2 (1m 0s):
Have you heard about the feud between Selena Gomez and Hailey Bieber?

3 (1m 5s):
I was actively scrolling away from every video that was related to Hailey or Selena or Justin and I was still getting served video after video after video about it. So at some point, yeah, you're gonna get dragged into whatever drama is happening inside of that app, whether you like it or not,

2 (1m 24s):
TikTok and celebrities and why we can't escape their drama. This week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast,

1 (1m 41s):
It's today explained. I'm Noelle King and we're gonna start with the story of YouTube's former C o Susan Eski. Peter Kafka is the senior correspondent at Vox. He covers media and technology and so he knows Susan w Jetski. He's been covering her for years now, beginning with her earliest days at Google.

4 (1m 58s):
Susan Wiki's history with Google goes back to its founding. She famously rented out the garage of her Silicon Valley house to Larry Page and Sergei Brynn. You know, the idea of people starting a company in a garage in Silicon Valley is a cliche and usually isn't true, but hmm, this one is true.

5 (2m 19s):
I bought a house and houses are really expensive in Silicon Valley and I was a student and so I wanted someone to help me pay the mortgage

4 (2m 29s):
And she joined a year later after, after renting out the garage, became the 16th employee at Google. If you know anything about how big Google is and how much money the people who started at Google made, you can both understand that she's made a lot of money in her career and also that she's had a lot of influence at that company. If she's there at the start,

6 (2m 47s):
You were Google's 16th employee, first marketing manager, you worked on Google Doodles, Google images, Google books, you built the ad business. How many hats have you worn in 18 years?

5 (2m 59s):
You know, I think when you join a startup you just sort of have to be willing to do whatever the startup needs you to do.

4 (3m 6s):
So Google's main money machine is something called AdWords. That's when you go and type a query into Google and spits out results. People are bidding on those results. She didn't create that, but she built out a significant chunk of the rest of Google's ads, business display ads. When you go to another website that isn't Google, you see an ad served up by Google, she built that out in large part, it's a huge business.

7 (3m 29s):
From 2015 until 2021, every second dollar spent on online ads was spent on Google and meta Google

8 (3m 36s):
Earned 209 billion in ad revenue in 2021 alone making it the largest advertising company in the world.

4 (3m 47s):
In 2014, she became c e o of YouTube and at the time it was a big business. It was a probably about a 5 billion business but still was a sidelight for Google and it wasn't really clear how YouTube fit into Google. They'd bought it a decade earlier, not quite for 1.65 billion. It's a huge thing in the internet, a huge thing in video. It wasn't quite clear how seriously Google took it and I think by moving her in there, cuz she was a respected executive at the time, that was them saying, we think this business can get a lot bigger. We think it'd be good to be run by someone with real business and advertising experience.

4 (4m 27s):
And she was that person.

1 (4m 29s):
Why was she so good at it? Like what? What did she do exactly?

4 (4m 31s):
There's a couple different things. First of all, the, the guy who'd run YouTube before Susan Eski had been I think the ninth employee at Google, and he's a classic Googler. He is an engineer by trade. Classically, not a glad hander, didn't really wanna look at you, he'd rather look at a laptop. I had that experience a few times, just not someone that is gonna spend a lot of time interfacing with people who buy and sell advertising, people who create videos and upload them to YouTube. Not that guy Susan Majeski by Hollywood or New York Media standards. Also not a dazzling sparkling personality, but by Google standards she's a pretty media savvy person and is happy or at least willing to go talk to advertisers, to go to New York and talk to publishers and crucially to be the face of YouTube to its creators, which became an increasingly important role.

5 (5m 29s):
Good evening Bitcoin. It is great to be here and to see everyone.

1 (5m 33s):
What kinds of policies did she institute at YouTube?

4 (5m 37s):
So the main thing she had to do was, was sort of handle YouTube, which is this really unruly beast. Anyone can upload a video to YouTube and early in YouTube's career, they made an important policy decision was said, look, if you upload video to YouTube and we sell advertising against it, we're gonna give you about half that money. It was a big deal. It was remains a big deal. YouTube is still really the only company that allows creators to do that directly, which is why a lot of creators still are making stuff for YouTube instead of TikTok or Instagram. Even though those sites may be buzzer or or have more reach in certain places, creators who were never gonna make money. Some other ways are suddenly dependent on YouTube. I mean it's sort of a oblique algorithm to figure out whether they're making money or not.

4 (6m 20s):
And then people start abusing. YouTube too happens with any platform of any size on the internet. If you can upload stuff, people are gonna upload unpleasant stuff. It created something called the Apocalypse in 20 17, 20 18. Some

9 (6m 33s):
Inflammatory articles are posted about how major brands are being advertised on top of very vile YouTube videos. A bunch of advertisers fearing backlash remove their ads entirely from YouTube and during this period every YouTuber saw a decrease in revenue.

4 (6m 48s):
In that case, it was a big enough furor that advertisers boycotted YouTube temporarily and she had to negotiate all of that as well.

5 (6m 54s):
I think the creator community sometimes doesn't understand some of the fragility with the advertisers and we've been working really, really hard to bring back all of our advertisers after brand safety and make sure they feel confident and keep spending.

1 (7m 8s):
What do you think her legacy is gonna be?

4 (7m 10s):
I mean, to put it in business terms, that's the ones that I'm in some ways most comfortable talking about. Hmm, it's probably a 5 billion business when she took it over and it's a 29 billion business now. It's a big enough business that Google, and this is for accounting nerds, breaks out the business when it talks to Wall Street and says, this is a big important part of our business. This is a 10% of our business. That didn't happen for a long time, but it's something now that when it wants to tell Wall Street, this is how well we're doing, they'll point to YouTube and the growth they're doing there. And again, it's easy to dismiss YouTube or ignore it, especially if you're an older person who isn't spending a lot of time on the internet. It's incredibly important. Culturally, I think it's really, you know, overlooked by a lot of people.

4 (7m 52s):
It's the biggest video site in the world. It's the second largest search engine in the world for a lot of people. YouTube is the internet and Susan Roski ran YouTube for nine years.

1 (8m 3s):
Why is she stepping away?

4 (8m 5s):
She put out a memo to the staff, which was then obviously then reproduced around the world, said she's leaving for family health and personal projects. Two of those words are sort of standard when people leave a company and go on to do something else. Generally they don't mention health. So you can draw an inference from that if you want. Beyond that, I don't know.

1 (8m 22s):
Okay, so who's gonna replace her? Who is this woman who's replacing her?

4 (8m 27s):
It's a man.

1 (8m 28s):
No, Peter, I'm sorry, I'm kidding. Go ahead. Who is this fellow?

4 (8m 34s):
This fellow's named Neil Mohan. It's

10 (8m 37s):
Great to be back at VidCon to celebrate its 10th anniversary with all of you here.

4 (8m 41s):
Think of him as the vice president to Susan Jetskis president. They have a long, long relationship. Neil Mohan helped build that ad business with Susan Majeski at Google and about a year after she came to run YouTube, she brought him on and it's basically her number too. Like Susan Majeski, this is someone who's comfortable with the advertising and media part of the business, which is crucial.

10 (9m 5s):
Everything we do is aimed at lifting up our creators and helping them achieve their dreams. We wanna spark opportunity in a way only YouTube can.

1 (9m 17s):
How big a moment is Susan Wiki's departure for this company?

4 (9m 20s):
You never know, but it's hard to imagine that Neil Mohan is gonna run the business in a significantly different way than Susan Majeski did. But you know, she's one of the very few women in leadership in Silicon Valley and I think the significance of leaving in that context, if you look, is that there are so few women in positions of power in tech that when Susan Majeski leaves their ranks get significantly smaller. If you have a club, there's only three or four people in it, one leaves, that club is a lot smaller. We've dealt with this all the time when we had conferences over at Recode and all things digital, you know, you could get Cheryl Sandberg from Facebook to show up. Do

0 (9m 58s):
Not lean back, lean in,

4 (9m 59s):
You get Susan Eski to show up from YouTube and there weren't a lot of other women you could get on stage that had significant equivalent positions of power. Now both those women no longer work at those companies.

1 (10m 11s):
Is there something broader happening in the tech industry? I mean you, you named two women there. Is there a larger trend where women are pulling back?

4 (10m 19s):
I think the thing to ask is why aren't there more women available to succeed a Sheryl Sandberg or Susan Wiki? That's an open question.

1 (10m 35s):
We are gonna try to answer that open question ahead on today. Explained

11 (10m 46s):
If there's one company whose jingles have burned themselves into my brain, that company is Coca-Cola, the

0 (10m 52s):
Refreshing Coca-Cola,

11 (11m 2s):
But that's not the only thing they burn. No indeed. Coca-Cola actually contracts with a chemical company in New Jersey to burn piles of cocaine. That's right, cocaine. Turns out that Coke's famous secret formula is a lot weirder than you can imagine. On the latest episode of Gastropod, we've got the scoop on the world's favorite beverage, plus the backstory of the drug addicted pharmacist who invented it. Find Gastropod, unsubscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

12 (11m 31s):
Hi, it's Phoebe Judge, host of the podcast Criminal. We've got some exciting news, we're now bringing you more episodes than ever before. Four times a month we're sharing true stories about people who've done wrong, been wronged, or gotten caught somewhere in the middle.

13 (11m 48s):
I never did anything wrong. I never had a speeding ticket, so I think I just

14 (11m 53s):
Saved all my stuff up for just one thing.

12 (11m 56s):
Stories told by people who know them best, like a group of friends who broke into an FBI building or a man who figured out how to negotiate with his father's kidnappers. Your

15 (12m 7s):
Ultimate goal is to convince them that they've milked you for everything you're worth.

12 (12m 14s):
From lotto scams to black market bourbon to the accidental death of a rare and beautiful fish, we bring you stories about the most curious crimes around. Discover the unexpected side of true crime. Listen to criminal wherever you get your podcasts. Lean back.

16 (12m 36s):
Do not lean back, lean

1 (12m 37s):
In. It's today explained. We're back. Naomi Nicks is a reporter for the Washington Post. Naomi covers social media companies and lately, as you might expect, she's been covering layoffs at social media companies. She's gathered some data that shows those layoffs are hitting women and people of color harder than they are men and white employees. Okay, so earlier in the show Peter was telling us that it's not like we've seen dozens of women leave top jobs in tech because there are not dozens of women in top jobs in tech. There are just a few. After Marissa Mayer left her post as c e o of Yahoo in 2017, Susan Eski at YouTube and Sheryl Sandberg at Meta were the two big names in big tech, capital B, capital T, just a handful of companies.

14 (13m 23s):
All three of them, you know, had really built their early careers and their early success in the late 1990s and early twenties. As they got started at Google, they were able to sort of build these early careers, you know, with Cheryl in online advertising and sales. Marissa was a top product person at Google and Susan obviously sort of worked her way up to the top of of YouTube. And now that generation is largely, you know, has left.

1 (13m 53s):
Naomi says, as leaders would, Jessica and Sandberg had some things in common, but ultimately they used their power and influence differently. They

14 (14m 1s):
Were somewhere in that they were running similar types of businesses and they both ran companies at a time in which there really was a sort of sea change politically for social media in general. And they both kind of had to take on this other role of being the face of how the company was handling some of these thorny public policy issues like misinformation and political polarization.

16 (14m 27s):
And I am so sorry that we let so many people down,

14 (14m 30s):
But Cheryl took on a kind of bolder, higher profile role in terms of championing women. So she, you know, essentially pushed into the forefront, her lean in philosophy, it was a, a kind of brand of corporate feminism which encouraged women to consider getting more ambitious and to raise your hand at new opportunities even in your personal life, in your dating life. Like evaluate, like is this person gonna help your career?

16 (15m 2s):
Studies show that households with equal earning and equal responsibility also have half the divorce rate. And if that wasn't good enough motivation for everyone out there, they also have more, how shall I say this? On this stage, they know each other more in the biblical sense as well.

14 (15m 19s):
And that brand of sort of corporate feminism, you know, turned into a book, it turned into a nonprofit. She did a famous TED talk. Your

16 (15m 26s):
Job needs to be challenging, it needs to be rewarding. You need to feel like you're making a difference. And if two years ago you didn't take a promotion and some guy next to you did, if three years ago you stopped looking for new opportunities, you're gonna be bored because you should have kept your foot on the gas pedal. There

14 (15m 46s):
Was some backlash to that, right? Like very early on there were critiques, people said she left out women of color and the sort of unique pressures that women of color face. There was also criticism that she put too much onus on individual women and not enough on the system, but still, you know, that brand of feminism, it affected how she talked about, you know, Facebook's policies.

16 (16m 11s):
We offer benefits for all life stages and really generous benefits. We don't just try to follow the market, we try to follow our employees. So we offer, you know, four months of maternity and paternity leave. You can take it anytime in the first year. We give you cash when you have a baby, whether you adopt or you give birth.

14 (16m 28s):
And she envisioned them as something that would encourage other companies to adopt friendlier workplace policies in order to be more inclusive to women.

1 (16m 41s):
We talk about these women leaving their jobs, notably, they're not getting fired, they're not passing away in the c e o chair, they are quitting. What are the reasons they're giving and do you see similarities there?

14 (16m 53s):
So in the case of Susan and Cheryl, they both stated they wanna spend more time with their family. Susan also mentioned there were some health reasons at play. I think it's notable though, that in all three cases, really, even if we're sort of including Marissa, that they left their businesses at a time when there was a lot of duress on the business itself.

8 (17m 16s):
Meta is cutting about 13% of its workforce and the largest wave of layoffs in the tech giants history.

17 (17m 22s):
If you look at Google, YouTube has made its first quarterly decline in advertising revenue in its whole existence.

14 (17m 29s):
They're both grappling with these really unprecedented market pressures and they left right, they left in a moment when the business was weaker than it had been in a very, very long time. And while they weren't formally or publicly pushed out, it does sort of raise questions about are there unique pressures on top female executives when the economic going gets tough.

1 (18m 2s):
When you talk to your sources in the tech world, is there a sense that women cannot win in tech or has that time period passed?

14 (18m 9s):
I people definitely still raise questions about the pressures facing women in technology. I mean, these places are very male dominated and women are often relegated to roles that aren't seen as economically important, which means ultimately their work by and large isn't valued. For instance, during the pandemic, actually many of the companies a started offering more generous, flexible work arrangements that allowed them to recruit more women and people of color

18 (18m 45s):
As we consider remote work, right? Which has been accelerated through this crisis. We're looking at, well what are the opportunities now to have people working in cities where we didn't have offices before, but which could increase our diversity? Because one of the issues is that, you know, Silicon Valley's not very diverse.

14 (19m 3s):
You saw like Facebook and and Twitter actively actually say they have had more success in diversity during the pandemic because they could recruit outside Silicon Valley.

18 (19m 15s):
What we know is that works to increase representation. So for instance, since we've done it, we've increased the number of black women we've hired by 40 x.

14 (19m 26s):
So now you have this like new crop of women and people of color entering these companies with a lot of hope and optimism about the kind of career that they can build. But then when the going gets tough and the tech companies decide to lay people off, you know, the initial evidence suggests that they're weighing off the people who are newer to the company. Last in first out, which research suggests hurts diversity and they're weighing off people who occupy particular roles that they consider less necessary. They're your human resources managers, your marketers, people outside the core sort of engineering tech focused roles, and that means women and that means people of color.

1 (20m 9s):
Are there other women in tech who are replacing Sheryl Sandberg in that role of like ensuring that the pipeline problems are acknowledged, ensuring that the pipeline remains open? Who do we look to now?

14 (20m 22s):
There's no next Cheryl, huh? There's no one I think that has taken on that mantle with such public force and it's really taking the risks to their personal profiles by talking about it, right? Because when they're judged on Wall Street, they're not being judged on diversity. I don't know that Cheryl's message as it currently stands would have the same reception now that it did back then because the economic and political situations have changed when companies are laying off thousands of their workers being told that you just have to work harder to obtain power at these companies.

14 (21m 4s):
It's not gonna work. A message of you just need to raise your hand a little higher isn't necessarily gonna translate. Right? And I think we even saw this internally, like after some of these leaders, including Mark Zuckerberg started to offer messages about how essentially the Boone times are over

19 (21m 25s):
Zuckerberg calling the current downturn, the worst he's seen in recent history company is turning up the heat on existing staff, unable to meet more aggressive goals. Zuckerberg telling his employees, quote, realistically, there are probably a bunch of people at the company who shouldn't be here.

14 (21m 44s):
Employees at some of these companies were kind of like, Hey, we've been working hard and we've been working hard during a pandemic. And that was actually a really difficult thing. And being told as women who are juggling taking care of their kids and loved ones while working from home and are trying to keep all the balls in the air, like they don't wanna be told that the problem is them when there's so clearly other barriers at work in terms of potential bright spots, I mean, look, there's still women leaders. Safra Katz is the c e O of Oracle, a big software company that's, you know, maybe less well known to everyday people, but is actually still a, a pretty big tech company.

14 (22m 25s):
I think v Papas, the chief operating officer of TikTok is actually perhaps one of the more interesting leaders in the technology industry right now. V recently came out as non-binary, and when they did, they took the moment to say that they wanted to bring their whole self to the role. And so I think it would be really interesting if we were to see more from them about the need to champion diversity in the workplace.

1 (22m 54s):
Let me ask you lastly about the stakes here. We know that these tech companies are now laser focused on things like artificial intelligence, the metaverse, what could a lack of women at the top or even at the start of the pipeline mean for the products that these companies build and these products that we use?

14 (23m 15s):
I mean, it's a well-known fact that women are more likely to suffer harassment on certain social media sites. If there aren't people who care about that working on policies and new product interventions to protect people who are facing harassment, then ultimately large swaths of the population suffer the consequences.

20 (23m 42s):
A new report from Amnesty International says Twitter is not respecting the rights of women. The report says women are often threatened on Twitter and that even though the company's policies prohibit abuse, the social media platform is not providing quote, adequate remedies for the victims of those threats.

14 (23m 57s):
You know, artificial intelligence and particularly generative AI that companies are focused on right now, there's already been reports about the potential for racism and bigotry and bias to come through in some of these new products.

21 (24m 12s):
One uc, Berkeley professor was able to trick Chad g p t to write a piece of code to check if someone would be a good scientist based on their race and gender. A good scientist had found was white and male.

14 (24m 25s):
If there aren't people who care about those issues as they're being developed and generated, it's gonna be a harder road to make sure that those services are treating people equally. The other thing I would just highlight is economic opportunity. The wealth gap still exists and tech companies are, look, they have high salaries, they are a way to get a piece of a very still lucrative pie. And if women and people of color are shut out of those opportunities, that's just one less place they get to go to help advance their economic empowerment.

1 (25m 18s):
Today's show was produced by Amanda Lou Ellen, and edited by Matthew Collette. It was engineered by Patrick Boyd and fact checked by Laura Bullard and Victoria Chamberlain. I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.