0 (2s):
When the heavens fund,

2 (5s):
Maybe you don't think about the national guard too much.

1 (9s):
Find yourself in the army national guard, serving one weekend a month and two weeks a year. And you'll find an extra paycheck money for college and all the adventure you can have.

2 (17s):
They're just there whenever you need them to. I don't know.

4 (21s):
And then the national guard soldiers are leaving San Diego for a year long deployment in Afghanistan,

5 (27s):
Guard members, driving school buses,

6 (29s):
Third straight day of protests in Philadelphia. The national guard is now patrolling this

7 (34s):
And Mexico's governor has called out the national guard just to keep the kids in the classroom

1 (39s):
Call one 800 gold guard.

2 (41s):
But now some in the national guard have had enough. And there's one mission in particular that pushed the Texas guard so far over the edge. They're going the way of auto workers and Starbucks baristas. They're going to try and unionize The mission operation.

10 (1m 5s):
When you subscribe to Bloomberg, you will get more than news. You will get inspiration to feed your ambition. You will put a woman on Mars. You will refreeze the ice caps. You will be the first chief crypto officer. You will power change and redefine the future. But before you invent pioneer disrupt, before you change the world, Bloomberg discover more at bloomberg.com/you will.

12 (1m 40s):
The national guard is America's. Part-time fighting force

2 (1m 45s):
Davis Winky reports on the national guard for the army times.

12 (1m 49s):
We're an independent news organization that covers the U S military.

2 (1m 54s):
And just to get it out of the way, he's also in the national guard. So he can identify with what's happening to the Texas national guard at the border. We asked him to help us understand how members of this division of our military reached their breaking point and decided to try and unionize, which is an unprecedented move for the guard. By the way,

12 (2m 12s):
For the past few years, America has been increasingly relying on the national guard of force of part-time soldiers in order to solve just basic societal needs. But in Texas, what we've seen is governor Greg Abbott has deployed 10,000 of them to tackle what he calls a failure of the Biden administration's immigration policy at the border

13 (2m 37s):
Because the federal government is failing to act to respond to these dangers. Texas is stepping up to secure the border and to keep our community safe.

12 (2m 51s):
As a result, those troops are sitting at the Texas Mexico border right now, trying to observe and report and stem migration

2 (3m 1s):
For people who aren't aware what's the national guard supposed to do.

12 (3m 6s):
The guard is available to deploy overseas and fight the nation's wars. And they've done so at a huge rate over the past 20 years, they're also at the same time on call for missions under the direction of their respective governors. Each governor has the authority to activate and use their national guard for virtually whatever purpose they see fit. So things like responding to hurricanes, crowd control with riot, providing proactive security for key events, but operation loans are up ends that balance by taking this state mission concept and making it longterm

14 (3m 54s):
An effort to keep enough personnel patrolling the river and across the valley, the Texas national guard will be sending more soldiers to the Southwest border to help with operation Lonestar

12 (4m 5s):
Operation. Lone star story begins in March, 2021. Greg Abbott decided to deploy a few hundred national guard volunteers to assist with the Texas department of public safety and to set up extra observation posts, to help spot migrants along the border. But it was in the fall of that year. That Abbott really decided to massively increase the national guard presence at the border, activating thousands, more troops and voluntarily and many cases. And sometimes with as little as 72 hours, notice that these part-time soldiers needed to drop their lives and show up to the border or else face possible arrest and prosecution for not showing up.

2 (5m 1s):
What are the conditions like at the border?

12 (5m 4s):
A lot of them showed up to find nothing there base camps, where they were going to live. We're still in progress. And a lot of cases there wasn't infrastructure set up yet to feed them. And there weren't clear directions yet on what they would be doing once they got there. There's some that are working on a task force that is trying to build barriers along the border Abbott calls it a wall. My sources out there call it more of a fence. There have been widespread pay issues that have improved over time. But guard troops down there have had an issue getting paid on time or getting paid the right amount. They were crammed into these trailers that have bunk beds going three high others have reported shortages of equipment like ballistic plates, like medical equipment, like cold weather gear.

2 (6m 1s):
But at the same time, these are people who signed up to be in the national guard and protecting the border. Sounds like an essential national guard kind of thing. If that's what the government needs, right.

12 (6m 18s):
That's true. And there's actually another set of national guard troops along the border who are assigned to a mission controlled by the Pentagon. Right now, those troops are they're directly supporting the department of Homeland security based on a request that DHS made to the Pentagon, where they said, Hey, here's what we think we actually need from the national guard, from the DOD. Can you provide it? And the troops on that mission in contrast operation, lone star are all living in hotels. They all had ample notice of their deployment that was going to happen. And because they're out there on federal orders, as opposed to the state orders that lone star troops are on, they're getting all kinds of benefits that are commonly associated with military service.

12 (7m 7s):
Like the GI bill, like free healthcare for them and their families operation Lonestar because it's under state control because it's directed by Abbott. Doesn't have those same protections and benefits. If they're heard, they actually don't even get veteran's affairs, disability coverage. We've seen incidents where troops on operation loan serve had used their weapons. And what was described as self-defense situations, workers' compensation is the only way that they can be covered. Long-term if they're injured in a situation like that, the way that operation Lonestar is designed just goes against a lot of that traditional balance between yes, the guardsmen have signed up for this, but the state and leaders have a duty to take care of them when they do call them.

2 (8m 5s):
You say, this has been bad on morale, but these are people who have, in some cases, I'm sure been to war. How exceptionally bad has it been at the border?

12 (8m 14s):
We've started to see some signs that the Texas troops on operation Lonestar have finally been pushed a little too far more and more of them based on data that was leaked to me have been deciding, not to re-enlist and continue their service and the national guard when their contracts had been ending. That is something of a lagging indicator though. And we'll, we'll see how many of them continue to vote with their feet about their experience on the border. But another phenomenon is a concerning level of mental health issues. There have been dozens troops who have been reported as experiencing suicidal ideation and have needed to have weapons confiscated from them, or in some cases have needed to go have inpatient behavioral health treatment for troops linked to the mission have died by suicide since October of last year.

2 (9m 21s):
Did anyone notice, did anyone respond to these suicides leadership in the Texas national guard? Governor Abbott,

12 (9m 29s):
Texas officials responded by trying to downplay the potential link to be fair. Suicide is extremely complex, but at the same time, I can't overstate the amount of stress. It can put on somebody to be told that they need to drop their entire life for an unknown period of time. On just days. Notice public affairs. Officer Colonel Rita Holton really lays out their logic in a shopping way. Holton said, quote suicides among the nation have risen.

12 (10m 9s):
And we are part of the general population. We've had suicides in our organization. There are suicides in every organization unless the individual left a note and said, I'm going to kill myself because I'm serving on this mission. There's no way anyone can say it's due to their service on the mission.

2 (10m 29s):
So after all this, what do officials in Texas have to say about the effectiveness of having the guard at the border?

12 (10m 35s):
They claim that it's having a deterrent effect on migrants and that they're contributing to large numbers of migrant apprehensions. But I don't know if those claims hold up. We're still seeing high levels of migration at the Southwest border, large numbers of apprehensions in Texas by border patrol. And if you look at the statistics that Texas officials are putting out about operation Lonestar, it looks like they're accounting for less than 10% of the migrant apprehensions in Texas, despite throwing 10,000 troops disrupting their lives at this problem.

2 (11m 18s):
And this is part of why there's a unionization effort.

12 (11m 21s):
There's a lot of reasons why there's a unionization effort.

15 (11m 35s):
This is advertiser content from the American cancer society.

16 (11m 39s):
My name is Tracy Kimbro, and this is a letter to my sister. Cheryl, we've always known that cancer runs in our family, but when you were diagnosed in 2002, I struggle to believe it through surgery, chemo, and all the treatments side effects. You found ways to help the family process what was happening. You never let us see you be afraid though, looking back. I know you must've been, it was five years later almost to the day when I got my own breast cancer diagnosis. You were the first person I called later. We found out a BRCA gene mutation is why our family is at such high risk for breast and other cancers.

16 (12m 21s):
I am thankful my cancer was detected early and that we acted quickly because of your experience. You helped me get the best possible care. I never thought I could be here without you, but after being in remission for 12 years, your cancer returned, I will forever fight to help others. So no one has to go through this alone. You were the best sister in the world, my best friend and my rock. I miss you. And I love you. Love Tracy.

15 (12m 55s):
Black women are 41% more likely to die of breast cancer than white women. Despite lower incidents. There are systemic factors like racism and barriers to healthcare that make breast cancer outcomes worse for black women to learn more about how the American cancer society is addressing cancer disparities, visit cancer.org/health equity.

2 (13m 26s):
Davis. The purpose of this episode, Victoria Chamberlain, she was an army.

17 (13m 29s):
These are my words, mother from army. The seal is for marksmanship and the gorilla is for Sandra.

2 (13m 37s):
And back when she was an army, when you didn't like something, there wasn't a whole lot you could do to change it. But these Texas national guards, people they're doing something to change. This situation is that right?

12 (13m 48s):
They are. And it's because they're taking full advantage of a legal loophole that exists with the duty status that they're currently activated under A national guard member can be called up broadly speaking in one of three ways. One is what's called title 10, which is federally funded under the Pentagon's control. You don't belong to your state anymore. And you're more likely than not going overseas for a deployment that's title 10 title 32 is you're under your state's control, but it's the federal pocket, but that's paying for it.

12 (14m 31s):
And you've got full pay, full benefits. You're considered a soldier while you're under title 32, but then you've got, what's called state active duty. It's basically a program under which these troops are activated as temporary state employees pay varies from state to benefits, vary from state to state and in the eyes of the courts. They're not soldiers when they're activated on state active duty and state active duty has its advantages. It's really flexible. It can be used really quickly. If you just need a few troops for a few days to do something like pull cars out of ditches after a winter storm state active duty is great,

2 (15m 20s):
But this kind of channels, back to what you said earlier, where like Texas national guards, men who were at the border under operation Lonestar, didn't have the same benefits as the federal national guardsman who were down there. But in this case, it might work to their advantage because they figure out they can unionize

12 (15m 40s):
State funded, state controlled all the way the buck stops with Greg Abbott. What that also means according to a January federal court filing from justice department, attorneys and Connecticut is that federal laws prohibiting troops from organizing and joining unions. Don't apply to guard troops when they're in a state active duty status. As a result, these troops in Texas are able to organize into the Texas state employees union.

2 (16m 16s):
And we should note here that like you don't often hear stories about the U S military unionizing who comes up with this idea.

12 (16m 24s):
The idea actually came out of the pandemic response. You had a small group of national guard troops in Connecticut who were on state active duty in the early days of the pandemic, working alongside state employees who in Connecticut are unionized and are able to collectively bargain for benefits for workplace protections and other stuff like that. And the guard troops were like, Hey, we're temporary state employees when we're on state active duty, why can't we join a union as well? They teamed up with the veterans law clinic at Yale and a couple of state employees unions and filed a lawsuit, seeking an opinion from a federal judge on whether they could unionize while on state active duty.

2 (17m 16s):
So how does this movement to unionize the Texas national guard build? How does it gain steam?

12 (17m 24s):
There's this junior enlisted soldier in Texas

18 (17m 28s):
Specialist, hunter Schueler. I'm a medic in the Texas army national guard currently serving on operation lone star here in Del Rio, Texas

12 (17m 37s):
In the military scheme of things, he's fairly low ranking, but on his civilian side, he has a master's in statistical analysis. And he as a law clerk for a judge in Texas, he watches this case closely and decides that, Hey, if the justice department says, this is cool, we're going to press forward with trying to organize something.

18 (18m 9s):
Well, it started as a joke really between soldiers. We, we joked about, well, what if we all just like, didn't come to work. You know, what, what could they do? You know, somebody said, oh yeah, like go on strike or something. And if only we could unionize or something, that's, that's kinda how it started just as a joke. And then we looked into it and realized that it was maybe going to be a possibility with that lawsuit up in Connecticut,

12 (18m 31s):
Schuller leapt into action and joined the Texas state employees union as the first known national guard member to join a union while in a state active duty status.

2 (18m 47s):
How's the state responding to this effort,

12 (18m 50s):
Basically slapping Texas state law down on the table and saying like, Hey, y'all

19 (18m 55s):
Service members should not be misled by union agitators into believing that Texas law allows them to engage in collective bargaining. It does not.

18 (19m 4s):
I wish it didn't have to be so adversarial. We're not fighting a war with our own soldiers. You know what I mean? Like we're all on the same team. It should never feel like somebody in the same uniform as you is your enemy.

12 (19m 15s):
And really it's being led by a <inaudible> soldier with 10 years service.

18 (19m 23s):
The idea that we're some outside, you know, carpet baggers who've come in to just stir up trouble because it hurts the governor politically or something is just nonsense.

2 (19m 35s):
So as he still pushing for this union, even though it might not really have teeth.

12 (19m 39s):
Yeah, he is. And the logic behind it, he explained to me is that right now, without a union, they really don't have any options to have their voice heard by their senior leaders.

18 (19m 53s):
We'd like to hold TMDL feet to the fire and get a definitive answer on end dates on our orders. It has an end date, but it's just right now, it's just the end of the state fiscal year. And that's kind of just a formal placeholder for paperwork purposes. We don't know for sure if that's, when we'll be able to go home

12 (20m 12s):
And what Schuler and others believe is that a union can offer a centralized clear authoritative way of broadcasting. The issues that they're experiencing

2 (20m 29s):
Counter-argument though, you know, there was a recent primary election in Texas. It felt like most of the news we've been hearing out of Texas is about gerrymandering and trans rights and abortion rights. Like where is the national guard on the list? It's it's way down there. Isn't

12 (20m 46s):
It. Perhaps people don't care about the national guard per se, but people in Texas care about the border, you had Alan West, one of the right wing primary candidates arguing that the top general in Texas should resign

20 (21m 3s):
Major. Joel, Tracy Norris, if you have any honor integrity or character whatsoever, you should immediately submit your resignation.

12 (21m 12s):
It has turned into something of a political issue out there, which means that while people might not care about the troops, they care about the border. And right now the troops are the border. Thanks to what Abbott's been messaging

2 (21m 29s):
And for all the everyday people who go about their lives. And don't really think a lot about the national guard. Why should they care?

12 (21m 36s):
The national guard has been and will continue to be here on America's worst days. The national guard plays an integral part of response to any disaster that happens on American soil.

18 (21m 57s):
We're unionizing, so that we don't have to live in an 18 Wheeler with 30 other soldiers we're unionizing so that we have porta Johns, you know, so that you don't have to work 12 hours without having access to a toilet. We had soldiers who were deprecating on the side of the highway because that's where the observation point was. And there was no restroom facility and no way for them to get to where unionizing so that we can go home and resume the rest of our civilian life. That that's why reading.

12 (22m 26s):
And if you want the guards to stay ready for America's worst day, you want to take a really hard look at how they're being used, how they're being treated and why

2 (22m 47s):
Davis Winkie writes for army times, you can find his work@armytimes.com on March 14th, Texas, governor Greg Abbott replaced the head of the Texas national guard. 72 hours later, two more generals in the Texas national guard abruptly stepped down. Our show today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain engineered by a female Shapiro. In fact, checked by Laura Bullard. It was edited by me, Sean Rama's from it's today explained.