0 (0s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. I have bad eyes and psychotic, spatial reasoning, and a perverse sense of direction. And as a result, I do not own a car. So for a decade, ish, I've relied on the apps. The Uber's, the grocery delivery they've made my life easier. And they've been key

1 (19s):
When you've been ordering an Uber or ordering a Lyft or getting something delivered on door dash, and you paid a price for it. Almost every time you were paying that price. I would argue that you were getting a little bit of a subsidy from venture capital.

0 (33s):
The subsidy. The reason we were all paying prices that seemed literally too low was that those startups wanted us as customers and they were happy to undercharge.

1 (43s):
And I called this whole arrangement. The millennial lifestyle subsidy

0 (52s):
Coming up changing times explained today by Atlantic writer and millennial Derek Thompson,

BalanceUS (1m 1s):
The Coca-Cola company, Keurig Dr. Pepper and PepsiCo are bringing consumers more choices with less sugar than ever before. In fact, nearly 60% of beverages sold, contain zero sugar. Visit balance us.org to learn more.

Coca-Cola (1m 18s):
This podcast is brought to you by America's beverage companies who are working together to reduce plastic waste in our environment. Not all plastic is the same at the Coca-Cola company. Keurig Dr. Pepper and Pepsi co bottles are made to be remained. These companies are carefully designing their bottles to be 100% recyclable, including the caps. They're also investing in community recycling improvements so that every recycled bottle can become a new one that helps complete the circle and reduce plastic waste one to help them get every bottle back, visit every bottle back.org,

0 (2m 20s):
Derek Thompson staff writer at the Atlantic magazine. When did you first start noticing that there was a subsidy for the millennial lifestyle?

1 (2m 28s):
There were a couple economic papers that were published in the mid 2010s. There were pointing out that Uber prices were being kept artificially low, essentially because venture capitalists were subsidizing those prices. And I remember joking around that. It was as if venture capitalists had, you know, out of the goodness of their hearts, decided to give all the millennials that live in New York city, Washington, DC, and San Francisco, a little bit of extra spending cash because they just felt like we deserved it. And I remember joking about this with one writer at the New York now named Kevin Roose.

5 (3m 1s):
Hi, I'm Kevin Roose. I'm a technology columnist for the New York times.

1 (3m 4s):
And we went back and forth about what exactly was going on. And one or the other of us actually don't remember, which said, you know, it's like a millennial lifestyle subsidy.

5 (3m 13s):
I can't know for sure whether it was me or Derek, but as a magnanimous gesture of friendship and Goodwill, I will release it to him and he can be the lawful creator. And all I insist on is a 5 cent royalty. Every time he uses the phrase in conversation

1 (3m 32s):
And the word just caught on, and the observation really caught on this fact that if you interacted with this fleet of companies, you know, if you went to bed on a Casper and you went to work in an Uber, and then you ordered lunch through door dash and you came home in a lift and maybe you get a, did a lime scooter ride somewhere around the city. You were essentially interacting with the fleet of companies that were losing billions of dollars a year. And if they were losing billions of dollars a year, then those losses being subsidized by venture capitalists were cashing out in a way in low prices. We were paying low prices for these services. And this is a story that was wonderful for consumers and maybe not so wonderful for people that were working for these companies for a long time.

1 (4m 12s):
And I do think that this story is now coming to an end.

0 (4m 15s):
What is the rationale for an American company in a capitalist country being totally cool with not making money or even losing money? Yeah,

1 (4m 24s):
Yeah. It does seem kind of confusing, right? It's like, wait, I thought the whole thing with capitalism was that these greedy capitalists were trying to make money from consumers by jacking up the price when they could. But in fact, for a while, it was rational in a strange way to not try to be profitable on a sale per sale basis. Let's consider a really simple example. Let's consider a pizza delivery in New York city. Let's say that the ingredients and the labor and the transportation cost of that pizza delivery in New York city average is about 20 bucks. Now I'm making up that number, but let's just make it really simple 20 bucks. If the company charges $21 for the average New York city, a pizza delivery and makes a profit of $1.

1 (5m 9s):
But if it charges $10, sure. It loses money on every individual pizza, but it gets a lot more pizza orders. So suddenly you you're just totally swimming in pizza orders. And when they show their investors what's going on with the business, they're like, oh my God, look at all. These customers, look at all this revenue. And the investors are dealing with a zero rate environment, a low interest rate environment where they're looking for long-term growth rather than short-term profits. And so in a very strange way, as long as money was cheap and Silicon valley investors were telling themselves that they could build the next world, conquering consumer tech from the next Amazon in the next funding round, the best way for a startup to make money from investors was to lose money acquiring customers.

1 (5m 56s):
And that's how you get to this bizarre rationale. We're losing money actually gives rational.

0 (6m 4s):
Okay. Talk about how low interest rates play into this. Cause obviously they do what happens when money is cheap. Derrick,

1 (6m 11s):
When money is cheap and interest rates are near zero, investors want to put their money into longer term bets, right? The bets get crowded, equities get expensive and the everything boom. As I described it in my podcast, we talked about this, everything, boom, we're kind of, everything was expensive. Stocks were expensive and real estate was expensive and bonds. And so investors were like, okay, where's yield and yield. They said, yield would come from these big bets on building the next Amazon. They said, we're going to subsidize these companies, right? The Peloton, the, we works, the Uber's, the lifts, the door dashes. We're going to subsidize them in the short run. They'll lose a lot of money acquiring new consumers, but eventually they'll grow their total user base, monopolize, whatever little industry that they're in.

1 (6m 56s):
And eventually there'll be able to flip that switch suddenly raised prices and will be raining in profits. We won't be writing and profits now or in five years, but maybe in 10 years, this will be our lot. Wow.

6 (7m 7s):
Where'd you go after revenue because we to make money? No, if you show revenue, people will ask how much, and it will never be enough. The company that was the a hundred X or the thousand extra becomes the two X dog. But if you have no revenue, you can say you're, pre-revenue, you're a potential pure play. It's not about how much you earn it's about what you're worth. And who's worth the most companies that lose money.

0 (7m 32s):
Can I speak on behalf of wounded millennials for a second? Are you a millennial?

1 (7m 37s):
I am a millennial. Yeah. So when I use the term in any kind of pejorative way, I am being a little bit masochistic.

0 (7m 43s):
Is there a moment of peak millennial lifestyles subsidy?

1 (7m 48s):
I'd say it was probably like 20 15, 20 16 in the middle of the 2010s. You would a couple things going for the millennial lifestyle subsidy. Number one, unfortunately you had an abundance of cheap labor, right? You still had high unemployment. So you had a lot of people that were willing to drive Uber and Lyft for a living. Number two, you had really low interest rates, which meant that these venture capitalists were willing to spend gobs and gobs of money holding down the price of Uber's. And Lyft's in the hopes that eventually essentially they'd drive all the taxi businesses out of business and be able to dominate those markets.

1 (8m 31s):
So I'd say maybe the 20 15, 20 16 era was the high watermark though. Lenneal lifestyle subsidy.

0 (8m 41s):
I am hurt because here's why we got these nice subsidies. And yes, they worked in our favor and I loved the Uber's and I loved the door dashes, but this whole time, the point was to make it so that there was only one Uber and then like yellow cab. And I would become dependent on Uber and Uber would be the only company on the playing field. And so I would have to rely on Uber and then Uber was going to raise their prices on me. That's where we were headed.

1 (9m 8s):
I'm really glad that you raised that point because there's actually two problems that you can point out with the millennial consumer subsidy. Right? I don't want to talk about this thing. Like it's purely good. It's not number one attempts to monopolize. Any industry can sometimes lead to driving perfectly good businesses out of business, right?

8 (9m 28s):
Shaul is fed up the owner of El heavies. Taqueria in Cambridge says delivery companies have been sucking them dry.

9 (9m 34s):
It's not sustainable. I can't keep losing money.

1 (9m 38s):
If you're a pizza company that's been operating for a long time, eating out a profit. And suddenly this venture backed company comes in and totally undercuts you and drags. You got a business that's not great for you, right?

9 (9m 49s):
The only successful restaurants make eight to 10% profit. When we're paying 18 to 20% of our revenue to the delivery companies, there's no way a restaurant can make it.

1 (10m 0s):
So that's one little dark wrinkle with the millennial consumer subsidy, but there's a darker wrinkle. And that is that the reason interest rates were low. And the reason that this entire charade could even happen is that in the 2010s demand was weak. Labor markets were weak. It was not a great time for low-income people to find work that paid a living wage. And as a result, companies like door dash and Uber were dealing with this enormous low income labor pool that would work for their companies without health insurance, without compensation, without benefits. And you can argue that their relationship with these workers was mildly predatory.

1 (10m 42s):
So in many ways are cheap. Uber prices are cheap. Door dash prices were made possible by this slightly predatory relationship with low-income labor. And now that is changing. You see the great resignation you see quits, rising and late and job openings, rising and nominal wage growth rising among the low income labor force. That's all good stuff.

0 (11m 5s):
And is everyone involved in the millennial lifestyle subsidy start to realize, oh, this might not be working in the longterm.

1 (11m 13s):
I think for a lot of people, they thought it would always work in the long-term. A lot of people probably assume that low interest rates were here to stay and that weak labor was here to stay. But certainly cracks started to appear in the edifice when you had the rise of inflation in 2021 and 2022, because that's when the federal reserve really started on this campaign of bringing down inflation by raising interest rates. And what happened when interest rates went up is that it sent a signal to Silicon valley. It sent a signal to this crop of growth startups that the game was over. The music was finally over and we were entering a new regime of tighter, more expensive loans and less of this sort of infinite subsidization of the millennial lifestyle.

Harken Wines (12m 44s):
This is advertiser content brought to you by harken Chardonnay. Hi, I'm Amanda, an audio engineer here at box creative. I enjoy wine. And now that it's warming up, I want something I can serve that goes with the weather. So I called up an expert to help me make sense of the wine. I like now to find more ISIS, Daniel who calls herself The millennial Psalm, and I am a Somalia wine content creator and wine influencer. I says, what can you tell me about my current favorite wine Chardonnay? Chardonnay is special because no matter what your pallet is, there is an example of that in a Chardonnay. So you have that buttercream cheese and maybe you're getting some Oak where you have the Nella. Chardonnay is the best answer to me. When you're talking about having lobster dish, a shell fish dishes, anything that you want to add butter to pastas, things like that. Definitely a buttery Chardonnay will be a great fit for that dish, Oak butter, vanilla. Got it. So is that what I asked for at a restaurant Somalis make me nervous. So if you've had a wine from home that you are looking for at a restaurant, describe it. I had a Chardonnay and it tastes like butter cream cheese. It also had tropical notes because when you are able to bring those details, your som will be able to provide a wine that is similar. If not almost exact, if it's going to be the same wine, never know, right? A great place to start, just ask for a harken barrel fermented Chardonnay from California and goes the extra step with a hundred percent barrel fermentation to create its creamy texture and rich flavors. Learn more and find a bottle of harken near you@hearkenwine.com

Wealthfront (14m 26s):
Support for today's show comes from wealth front, well friends, automated trading, optimizes your portfolio based on your own risk settings, helping you reach financial goals without lifting a finger. The real secret to their performance I'm told is they're great software. It's built to make it easy and rewarding to work, to build your long-term wealth with wealth front, you can allow their experts to make socially responsible decisions or take full control and just build your own portfolio with their curated selection of funds. Wealthfront is trusted with over $27 billion in assets and is helping nearly half a million people secure their future to start building wealth and get your first $5,000 managed for free for life. Go to wealthfront.com/explained that's w E a L T H F R O N t.com/explained to start building your wealth, go to wealth, front.com/explained to get started today.

12 (15m 32s):
That's right. When super giant pizza play nothing on it.

0 (15m 41s):
It's today explained Derek Thompson writer at the Atlantic millennial, and let's say Cole coiner of the term millennial lifestyle subsidy. Okay. So the subsidy that venture capital provided change the way we lived, it changed the way we spend money. And then what you started to notice things changing

1 (16m 2s):
For a long time, the phenomenon of cheap Uber rides and cheap Lyft rides and Xi DoorDash deliveries, w w it was invisible to me. You know, it was like seeing oxygen. It's like seeing nitrogen like it, like it took a while to actually realize what was happening. It just seemed like, oh yeah, of course, some tech geniuses figured out a way to make everything cheap. And now everything's just really cheap And it should cost $10 to drive 30 miles, and it should cost five bucks to get a delivery of pad Thai. It took a while to realize, wait, the laws of economics still apply. Like tech people can be really smart, but they don't waive away.

1 (16m 42s):
Like the fact of labor costs, the fact of oil costs, the fact of, you know, pad Thai costs. And so when these studies started to come out in the 2010s that were pointing to exactly how this mechanism was working, that you had venture capitalists putting money into companies that were delivering to consumers prices that were held artificially low, that I put one and one and one together and said, oh, I see this is a subsidy. The reason everything is cheap is that Silicon valley is artificially holding down the price of all of these services in order to get me to use these services more so that the companies can go back to the next round of investors and say, you know, not only is our user base, like, you know, 1 million people, it's 50 million people.

1 (17m 29s):
Everyone is on this service because, you know, we're charging $5 for $10 pizza pizza.

0 (17m 39s):
Did the pandemic like throw a wrench in the works? Or what did these companies slide through the pandemic pretty easily?

1 (17m 45s):
What makes answering that question? I guess a little bit difficult is remember when I was talking about like the two different ingredients in why Uber prices are low. On the one hand, you have lots of available labor, lots of people that are willing to drive Uber and Lyft, because there aren't a lot of great opportunities for them. That was what ingredient number one, and then ingredient number two was low interest rates sort of fueling the millennial consumer subsidy. So interest rates throughout the pandemic were very, very low. And there was certainly a period where unemployment was very high, which theoretically would be a good situation for Uber. But then that's complicated by the fact that it was an economic lockdown in a lot of metros.

1 (18m 26s):
And so people weren't, you know, driving to restaurants and bars at the same clip that they used to. The story that was clearer to me was that in 20 18, 20 19, just before the pandemic, the labor market started to get tight. And that was difficult for Uber and Lyft. And then in 2021 and 2022 interest rates started to rise and that got difficult for the Ubers and the Lyfts of the world. And eventually I think once I caught on to that, I realized this game can't last forever. This is a, this, this music has to end eventually. And as interest rates finally started to go up, I realized, okay, this is the thing that's going to end. The game.

1 (19m 6s):
Interest rates are going to rise, and that's going to change the regime.

0 (19m 10s):
The venture capital that has been underpinning. All of these companies looks at rising interest rates and does what exactly

1 (19m 16s):
It's like venture capitalists suddenly said, you know what? We're not going to lend the same amount of money to companies in. So, you know, there's series a series B rounds. We're not going to give them the same amount of money,

13 (19m 28s):
Been one of the most successful Silicon valley firms over the decades. And Sequoia's advice to founders this time preserve cash cut costs, or you're not going to make it through this slowdown. I got a copy of,

1 (19m 39s):
And that means that these companies don't have as much cash on hand to do business. So if they can't expect to get, you know, just tens of millions of dollars to get them through the next five years, they're like, wait, we only have enough cash to get us through maybe the next 12 months, the next 18 months. So what do you do? What do you do if you're a company and all of a sudden you have much less cash on hand from venture capitalists. You suddenly have to change what I guess nerds would call your unit economics rather than lose $5 on every single say, Uber ride. You have to make $1 on every single Uber ride, because that keeps the cash in the company, right?

1 (20m 19s):
That means you have more free cash flow. And so interest rates changing the behavior of venture capitalists changed the way that these companies did business. And it was no longer okay for them to just burn through tens of millions of dollars, just handing it out like candy to millennials, trying to get from, you know, Brooklyn to Manhattan. Suddenly they were like, no, sorry, those same Uber's from Brooklyn Manhattan. They need to make us money. We need to keep cash inside the company. And that all cashes out as higher prices to get from one borough to another.

0 (20m 50s):
Are there any millennial lifestyles, subsidy companies that not only are going to make it through this period, but you think are actually going to come out stronger on the other end?

1 (21m 0s):
No, which millennial consumers, subsidy companies are going to come out stronger, but I have no doubt that some of them will come out of this period of inflation and possible recession and probably become absolutely ginormous companies in the future. I mean, this is what we saw from the.com bust of 2000, right?

14 (21m 21s):
Mother nature.com. We're constantly checking out products. Like

1 (21m 24s):
All sorts of companies went to zero and most of them failed.

15 (21m 28s):
The mother nature fell along with everyone else. Their stock had dropped 200, $2 by April of 2000,

1 (21m 35s):
But some of them became Amazon, you know?

16 (21m 38s):
Well, I was on television with Tom Brokaw. He pulled together half a dozen internet entrepreneurs from that era. And he said, Mr. Bezos, can you even spell prophet? And I said, sure, P R O P H E T. And

1 (21m 54s):
I am pretty confident that we're going to see some of these companies continue to be absolutely enormous companies in the future by figuring out a few things. And maybe by adding on divisions like AWS, right, Amazon added a cloud business on top of its e-commerce business. And that's in large part, why its profits have made it a, you know, multi hundred billion dollar company. So I have confidence that some of these companies are going to figure it out. I don't know which of them are going to figure it out. And I think the difference is going to be something like this. We're going to figure out the next few years, which CEOs were just good at raising money and which CEO's are good. And actually being CEOs because raising money from venture capitalists and actually running a profitable business, turn out to be two entirely different jobs that have been bound up, bundled up in the same sort of consumer tech, go-go everything, boom CEO job.

1 (22m 47s):
And right now the inflation era we're passing through is going to disentangle those jobs. And we're going to see who can really run a business and who is just going to talking,

0 (22m 57s):
What are the real world implications for normal people, as opposed to just venture capitalists who fine, like let them do what they do, but I'm not going to feel bad for them. If they explode.

1 (23m 8s):
I'd say two things were up with that. Number one are macroeconomic. Conditions are just much better for workers. When unemployment was 5%, 6%, 7%, you had a lot of low income workers that had to work for Uber. And weren't getting healthcare from Uber. And weren't being, being paid very much money, but how to do it anyway, because there weren't a lot of low-income jobs for them that would pay more than just driving Uber all day. That's changed. Nominal wage growth is rising faster for low income workers. And it is for middle or higher income workers. And as a result, Uber has to pay more to keep those workers in the driver's seat, literally rather than working at a restaurant. Another great question is, should people be upset when they see rising Uber prices?

1 (23m 51s):
I always try to be soft with myself and with other people when they complain about prices rising, because on the one hand, it is absolutely the case that when prices rise, that often means that someone who is a worker and not just a venture capitalist, billionaire is making more money. And that's great. It's great that low-income people make more money, but it is also I think, definitionally annoying to want to go to the airport and think it's going to cost $35 and then look at the price in your phone. And it's $90, right? That's annoying. And when people say, oh, that's annoying. I don't think like, oh, you're a monster for not recognizing that the Uber driver made an extra $50 on that, on that trip.

1 (24m 31s):
It's prices rising sucks. Like people don't like inflation. This is one of the reasons why, you know, whether you're on the left or the right, you have to confront the fact that 8.6% inflation, which is what we have right now is a political liability for someone like Joe Biden is a political liability for anyone in office. People are going to blame the regime. That's in power. And there's a lot of blame going around because high prices just make people mad. So I tried to say, you know, you don't have to choose one of these or the other. You can live with the awkward synthesis that on the one hand, I want people that are low-income workers to make a living wage. And also I'm not going to beat myself up for being mildly annoyed by the sight of shockingly high prices.

0 (25m 28s):
Today's show was produced by miles, Brian Matthew collect edited fact-checker Laura Bullard brought the skepticism. Paul mousy engineered the rest of our team includes Halima Shaw. Avishai artsy, Heidi, Milwaukee, deep Victoria, Chamberlain, FIM Shapiro, and my cohost Sean Ramos from our audio fellow is Tori Domingas. Our supervising producer is almond El Sadi. Box's VP of audio is Liz Kelly Nelson. We use music by Breakmaster cylinder and Noah Hassenfeld. Our show is part of the Vox media podcast network, and it is distributed by w N Y C studios I'm Noel king it's today explained.