4 (6s):
It's Monday April 20, 20 20 for those of you keeping count at home. That's for 20 20 20. It's a lot of 20s. I'm Sean Rama's firm. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained over the weekend President Trump and vice president Pence continue to claim all that these states have sufficient testing capability to start opening up and getting back to business as usual a bipartisan group of Governors. Basically responded. Are you high Maryland's Republican Governor? Larry Hogan told CNN to say that Governors have plenty of testing and they should get Work on testing somehow we aren't doing our job. It's just absolutely false Virginia's Democratic governor Ralph Northam agreed saying, it's quote just delusional.

4 (47s):
The paycheck Protection Program or PPP has run out of money that was part of the historic stimulus program Congress passed last month that included three hundred forty nine billion dollars to help small businesses Congress is very close to a 450 billion dollar deal to replenish these loans. And guess what's holding the money up a dispute over President Trump's handling of testing in other testing use the FDA approved more than 90 antibody tests without vetting them first according to the Washington Post. Some of these are of dubious quality which of course means dubious results. Meanwhile the World Health Organization says it's not even sure of high-quality antibody tests proved that someone has immunity from this novel coronavirus.

4 (1m 29s):
So it might be a while before you see anyone with one of those immunity certificates we talked about on the show while back we also talked about how Singapore got out ahead of covid-19, but now it appears to be falling behind their numbers of confirmed cases have nearly doubled in the past few days to 8,000. He's confirmed cases also continued to surge. They just surpassed China's official numbers. Meanwhile, Germany is inching towards reopening as of today, Australia and New Zealand announced plans to do the same. Musicians all around the world got together for a concert to celebrate essential workers this weekend. There was something for everyone you had you Liz Oh Lady Gaga Jimmy Fallon Jimmy Kimmel.

4 (2m 11s):
They even got a beetle the doctors the nurses and all the medical stuff to keep us healthy. We love you. Thank you lady with no children at your feet. Wonder how you managed to make it gives me money. when you pay the rent, did you think that money falls help us

2 (2m 59s):
and

4 (3m 5s):
This episode is brought to you by the critically acclaimed HBO film bad education. Starring Academy Award nominee Hugh Jackman and Academy Award winner Allison, Janney based on actual events Jackman and Jenny are two supervisors at a nationally-recognized Long Island School District who success is threatened when news of an embezzlement scheme surfaces. Don't miss what indiewire calls A masterful and A diabolically smart Crime Story the film premieres Saturday April 25th at 8 p.m. On HBO. and catch bad education streaming soon on HBO Max We've been talking about this coronavirus on today explained since January well before it was a pandemic and we've always been pretty clear about its dire nature the risks the consequences the long-term implications, but one thing we haven't really dug into is all the Death we've talked about the numbers and not much else probably because it's really tough.

4 (4m 7s):
It's overwhelming. We all know lots of people are dying right now. Day, and we have to forge on and we will but today on the show. We're going to confront all the deaths head on and there will be some tougher moments, especially in this first half. So if you don't think you're ready for it, maybe just jump ahead to the second half of the show after the break. I called up my friend and former colleague Arun venugopal at WNYC for help today. He's been reporting on this crisis from home and home is Jackson Heights Queens. It's really eerie to live in Queens. I live within blocks of Elmhurst Hospital, which has become.

4 (4m 54s):
Synonymous with this disease this pandemic and with all the debts that are piling up when I step out of my home onto the street. You can't help but kind of feeling like the streets and the air itself is kind of contaminated right and that you're taking a real risk by just walking out your front door, which might be I guess the case with a lot of people right now. I guess it's especially the case right here because there's so many people dying in these neighborhoods. I mean the epicenter of the epicenter. It's crazy to think that this is New York. These are the zip codes around me that have the highest I think mortality rate in the city in Suppose for that matter in the country and I'm sure it's really tough living out there.

4 (5m 45s):
You also got a message from a guy who has been working out there. Tell us about him. His name is Eric Frampton and he's like Iran's this Boutique framing business with his husband. That's what he had done. And now as it last week or two, he's become one of these many temp workers, who are Working in these mobile morgues set up across the city. There's just dozens of these trailers which are accommodating these thousands of bodies. The people who've died from covid and of overwhelmed the medical system and funeral homes and morgues and you need people to handle that to bring some kind of order to this chaos.

4 (6m 35s):
And Eric is now one of those guys. I learned I said, yes without knowing why I was doing it without knowing if I was at risk without knowing what the cost would be. And why did he sign up for this job to work in a morgue trailer? Was it money or Duty or both? Eric has a couple reasons for having taken up. This work one is the money it. pays Apparently pretty well, I mean he wasn't he like $75 an hour and then he got bumped up within a couple days to a hundred dollars an hour.

4 (7m 17s):
But also he's been just feeling just furious at how the Trump Administration and the federal government have been handling this crisis and he kind of feels like the society has completely abdicated his role to keep people safe. And so he had this just rage building up in him and he thought when this job kind of landed in his lab or you know got heard about this offer. He said why not, you know, I guess it's the money as well as the ability to do what he thought was really important and it's kind of crazy because he is married and his husband's brother is just barely recovering from Near death, I mean no surprise that you know, it has become a major sort of like tension in his household is his husband is like terrified that he's going to get sick the both of them are going to get sick.

4 (8m 12s):
And so it's really complicated. What's an average shift like for Eric. He would drive to work. He lives in New Jersey and he drives to the Bronx and show up at this outside this medical facility and He'd go and change into many layers of clothes and PPE double layer masks and he'd have these kind of bags wrapped around his legs and it looked kind of crude almost like there's rubber bands holding them in place and then he go.

4 (8m 53s):
Outside these trailers and the main task is to basically get these bodies from the hospital Mortuary to the trailer and from the trailer to a funeral home director has to come by and pick it up. That's the basic Arc of the work and the challenge with that is that It's not just the hospitals that are overwhelmed, you know, we know that it's also the fact that there's so many bodies. So many people have died that funeral homes are also stretch Beyond capacity and there are some days where as this kind of manic and you're getting all these bodies from inside the hospital that are coming out and they had to sort of like place these bodies on these shelves the trailer that I've been working on for the last three days.

4 (9m 52s):
Yesterday we had a new trailer delivered which is completely full. Unfortunately one of the shelves collapse in the new trailer. So that was like six bodies that were all piled on top of each other, you know, sometimes they're not even proper bags. They're like these torn open like barely just kind of sheets for these for these bodies. They're not like proper like medical grade body bags. And so we spent a lot of time on the phone on FaceTime. He would FaceTime you from inside these more trailers and I'd see sort of I'd see all these bodies on wooden shelves around him and this like damn lighting. It was really it was really eerie Sean.

4 (10m 34s):
I mean, it was extremely uncomfortable to be on these FaceTime calls with him and to know really how to navigate these conversations because he clearly needed someone to talk to about this. I mean, he really wanted to try to make sense of this crazy. Morbid landscape that he'd entered into so it was partly I guess transparency and trying to like show what was happening, but I think also because he was just so overwhelmed by all of this. Death and sort of the responsibilities taken on because he felt very strongly about what about sort of the sanctity of what he was doing as well. My respect for each body is a literal imagination of who knows them who's calling about them what person could not visit them when they were you know and isolation before A had to go on respirator, and they couldn't talk anymore.

4 (11m 41s):
Who wants to know? Where that person is right now. I don't have any mournfulness for the vessel that I'm handling. I guess if I did I wouldn't be able to do this, but I do constantly think of the people who want to know. Where is there person? I can assure them that person is safe cold. respected I think there's a sense for so many people because we're all Limited.

4 (12m 27s):
In travel and so far away physically and in a way socially from the rest of the world right now. It's really easy to feel disconnected from the grisly reality that you're seeing from. Just outside your window. When you speak to people like Eric. I mean How shocking is it to hear a the the reality the details to see the bodies even on FaceTime? Did it did it change? Even your impression of how just awful this is?

4 (13m 11s):
Yeah, I think that's why people like Eric are important. They have to kind of help us register. What we sort of instinctively know is happening which is that there's a lot of misery out there a lot of people dying and there's not just a lot of people died and a lot of people who are dying alone. And this is all I guess incredibly traumatic I think for us as a society know as hard as it is for us to know that this is happening around us and that like More than 10,000 people have died in this city of just of covid. And then now this is becoming like just about the number one leading cause of death in America right now, but I think also we need to know who's bearing the brunt of this and not just the people who are dying.

4 (13m 55s):
Not just their loved ones who couldn't be with them and help them through their last days, but also the people who are doing this incredibly harrowing and important work people like Eric, you know, they're otherwise, what do we know about? Are these people and what they're going through? And I think it's so so traumatizing people like him and all we could do is just found listen to them and make them feel like they're they can share what they're going through and what they're seeing. Well, thank you for sharing Eric Story with us. And if you're still in touch with Eric, thank him for us.

4 (14m 36s):
I will definitely thank him for

2 (14m 38s):
thanks

4 (14m 43s):
Arun vinegar. Paul is a reporter with WNYC New York Public Radio. You can find his story about Eric over at Gothamist.com. It's called dispatch from a Coronavirus. This morgue truck worker. They write a check for your first day in case you don't come back. After the break another friend of the show rometty Nara Bluey talks about losing his uncle in Iran to covid-19.

4 (15m 30s):
This episode is brought to you by the critically acclaimed HBO film bad education. Starring Academy Award nominee Hugh Jackman and Academy Award winner Allison Janney As Long Island School District supervisors who find themselves at the center of a major Scandal based on actual events. The story follows Hugh Jackman's Frank to sewn a passionate, but greedy superintendent whose hard work and the Loyalty of his assistant superintendent Pam glocken played by Allison. Janney earned their school National. Action, but when a student reporter talks a paper trail and embezzlement scheme begins to unfold and Frank takes drastic measures to uphold an illusion of success thoroughbreds director, Cory Finley depicts a powerful story of greed with biting humor elevated by Jackman Jani and a Supporting Cast including Ray Romano and Geraldine viswanathan.

4 (16m 19s):
Don't miss what indiewire calls A masterful and A diabolically smart Crime Story the film premieres Saturday April 25th at 8 p.m. On HBO and catch that bad education streaming soon on HBO Max I'm Ron teen Arab Louis. I work at NPR. I'm a co-host of the podcast through line. So I live in Rockville, Maryland, but I was born in Iran Tehran Iran and still to this day. That's where most of my family lives. So I've stayed connected to them over the years. I visited Iran in the Summers.

4 (16m 60s):
I've spent a lot of time there and really still do feel connected to them. As family my aunt my mom's older sister who lives in Tehran is kind of a matriarchal figure and their family because they had a bunch of brothers and sisters. I think eight and my mom was the youngest so her mom was in her late 40s when she had her so she was kind of raised by her older siblings who are all significantly older than her. So my aunt took that kind of figure in my life to when I would visit I would stay with her in Iran and her husband. Haji Ahmed is what we called him. He was a really kind typically Iranian in the sense of like being very welcoming to guests and treating family members at least when they're in his home as as like as like God basically you don't even make you eat until you're going to explode he was a very generous person and he came from a like a lot of my friends.

4 (17m 56s):
My family came from a village in to Tehran when they were young and he made a life for himself in Tehran. You know, he fought really hard it was Rappy and all four of his kids got you know master's degrees and went on to be really Highly Educated successful people and I think he took great pride in that and they took great pride in their father my uncle being like a really hard worker who like did something really good for his family. He had been battling cancer for the last few years. And so they were very worried about him. Once they heard that covid-19 really targeted people who had underlying health issues and Immunity issues which he had. He was undergoing chemo on and off and he was on it this year.

4 (18m 38s):
They did their best to keep the house clean. They didn't allow any visitors. They just they were really anxious about him getting it and he was continuing his chemo treatments. They were doing them at home. When they could so that he wouldn't have to go in at any facilities because the fish just like here emergency rooms and hospitals are being filled with the sick and then in early March, my mom called me one day and was pretty upset and said that you know my uncle had Yahoo. My dad was sick that he was getting a cough and was basically showing the symptoms of someone with covid and I was like heavy taking him in to get him tested and I like well they're afraid to go in because people are there as they can maybe it's just a cold and I was like, no they should go and they eventually did and he escalated really quick.

4 (19m 26s):
He got sick. My understanding is he got sick on like a Thursday and they hesitated about taking him in and then they finally did on Saturday and that day they tested him they kept him overnight. They had to put him in isolation right away, like one really got to the hospital so they could only see him from like another side of a glass and it was really sad because one of my cousin's told my mom that like he just Really scared. He's a man in his 80s and not really I think shook them up a little bit. So they were just told to go home and they would get a call the next day. And when they got the call the next day they were told he passed he passed away.

4 (20m 11s):
It was shocking because his symptoms went from like a coal to coughing to fever and it escalated very quickly, like within a couple of days. They didn't get many answers. They were just kind of told like we're really sorry, but you have to calm like identifying cling the body and do all that stuff and then it's going to be a government-run burial basically. So the 1D need to know and I think anyone who's Iranian or are Shia Muslim will know that The funeral rites are really intricate. For example, the washing of the body is very ceremonial and it's really important and a traditionally family members participate in that and it's a part of the grieving process.

4 (20m 52s):
I think for many Iranians to have that kind of funeral. Well, they couldn't my family couldn't do any of them. So for them it was they were just like really shook because they always saw their father my uncle as a patriarch of the family. We they really loved him and they thought well whenever he does pass away because he was getting older we'll have a big funeral for him and people will come and they'll all remember him and we'll really honor him that way and they couldn't do that. I mean they did do Muslim funeral rites, but it was all done basically by strangers. Another part of the process that's sacred is the actual burial often a member of the family a male member of the family will go into the grave and put the dirt onto the person when you're burying them.

4 (21m 39s):
And again, this is all as a cop process of mourning and it's really important for people and they had to watch it from a distance. They couldn't participate they didn't feel like angry that they had to do that. They understood that it was part of the you know, Call of not letting the disease spread but they still felt unjust, right? They felt robbed of this ability to mourn their father and I just felt so bad for them. And I could imagine his face from the other side of the glass on the day that he couldn't really understand what was going on when they dropped him off at the hospital basically and I really just I felt so bad and I thought I'd like how many other people in Iran and around the world are going to have to go through this with a loved one.

4 (22m 26s):
Grunting the reason we're having you on the show is because we all knew that you had lost your uncle because you actually shared a story about it online. What made you want to talk about this lost that your family suffered publicly so quickly after it happened. So I I found out about my uncle's passing. Believe it was March 10th. And then on March 12th, I tweeted this tweet my uncle in Iran passed away from coronavirus. He was gentle and kind he'd been battling cancer for several years his family had to stand 100 meters away and watch him being buried by men in Hazmat gear.

4 (23m 12s):
My aunt is now sick. Please take this seriously. I was feeling so bad and I wanted it to be again. This is such an American thing, but I wanted it to like have a reason like for them to you know, for what happened to serve some purpose outside of the tragedy that they were experiencing and I you know, I once people started asking me to talk about it. I asked them if I could and they said yeah because I think at the same feeling of like wanting people to hear what happened to them. Share it has a warning and like take this seriously, like know that it could be someone in your family or it could be someone you know, or you love and you could be facing what what they're facing what my what my family's had to face in Iran with how they had to bury their father.

4 (24m 11s):
I think as as human beings it's really hard to grasp the severity of something until you become it gets close to you and I fear that in the coming weeks and months because it is very difficult to be in the state. We're in right now in a state of like emergency and isolation and it's gonna feel tempting to go back to normal to start going outside the way we used to in the weather is going to get really nice. I really I'm afraid about what's going to happen in the next weeks and months to come.

4 (25m 13s):
This episode was brought to you by the critically acclaimed HBO film bad education starring Academy Award nominee Hugh Jackman and Academy Award winner Allison, Janney based on actual events Jackman and Jani are two supervisors at a nationally-recognized Long Island School District whose success is threatened when news of an embezzlement scheme surfaces. Don't miss what indiewire calls A masterful and A diabolically smart Crime Story the film premieres Saturday April 25th at 8 p.m. On HBO. Bo and catch a bad education streaming soon on HBO Max