0 (1s):
The question recurs. Upon the election of a speaker

1 (5s):
Representative Kevin McCarthy continued his bid to be Speaker of the House. Today, he still hasn't gotten the 218 Republican votes that he needs. Sure

2 (14s):
It looks messy, but democracy is messy. Democracy is messy. Bye. Hi, by design.

1 (22s):
It's an embarrassment for the Republican Party. This is the first time such thing has happened in a hundred years, and it has overshadowed another arguably historic embarrassment. Do

3 (32s):
You feel like you're qualified to serve in this Congress right

1 (34s):
Now, that of Congressman Elect George Santos of New York? What

4 (39s):
Can you say to reassure your

1 (40s):
Constituents a man who lied about his education, work, history, religion, real estate holdings, charitable giving, Hawaiian vacation, and about his mom with the election of a fabulous tells us about America in 2023. Coming up on today, explained it's today explained. I'm Noelle King. Brian Mann is a correspondent at npr where he covers, among other things, politics in New York State. Brian's been following the story of 34 year old George Santos, who incidentally did vote for Kevin McCarthy for speaker, but his vote was much overshadowed by everything that preceded it.

1 (1m 26s):
Namely the revelation over the past few days that George Santos has lied about a lot of things.

6 (1m 32s):
You know, I've, I've covered politics for 30 years, and I've never seen a character like George Santos. He is someone who didn't just lie about one thing. There's not a scandal that sort of focuses on one part of his biography. It really turns out he invented almost everything. He seems to be kind of a serial fabulous or fantasist who, you know, whenever anyone would ask him about some point in history, whether it was nine 11 or the Holocaust or the Pulse nightclub shooting, he would somehow attach his own history and his biography to that event. And it just, it turns out much of that is untrue

1 (2m 8s):
According to George Santos resume. Who is George Santos? What has he done?

6 (2m 15s):
Yeah, so right up to the election, people thought of this as a guy who had gone to Baruch College, graduated, and then gone to a really successful career on Wall Street, working for City Group, working for Goldman Sachs, someone who owned valuable real estate property.

7 (2m 32s):
I'm a private sector guy. I was born and raised in, in abject poverty in this country, and only in this country, the somebody who comes from a basement apartment in Jackson Heights like I did, is able to rise to become a successful business person to then run for United States

6 (2m 45s):
Congress. He had this really passionate and, and compassionate backstory where four of his employees had died in the Pulse nightclub shooting in Miami in 2016. He spoke about that with, you know, real heartfelt kind of almost PTs d level connection to that event.

8 (3m 3s):
I just wanna weed out the hate out of our country and our society. There is no place for hate in the United States of America.

6 (3m 8s):
He talked about his mother having been someone whose death was somehow linked to the nine 11 terror attacks in New York City. He's a guy who talked about having Ukrainian heritage and, and ancestors who escaped the, the Holocaust in Eastern Europe, head of World War ii.

7 (3m 26s):
I'm very proud of my Jewish heritage. I'm very proud of my, my grandparents' story. My grandfather fleeing Ukraine, fleeing Stalin's persecution, going to to Belgium, finding refuge there, Mary, my grandmother, then fleeing Hitler going to to to Brazil. That's a story of, of, of perseverance and I, I'm so

6 (3m 50s):
Proud and so really an almost zeal like character who connected with history in all of these different and, and mostly successful ways. And that's the portrait that of the man who got elected in November.

1 (4m 3s):
And what does the portrait look like in real life? How much of that is

7 (4m 6s):
True?

6 (4m 7s):
Almost nothing. I mean, it's really astonishing, Noelle. I mean, I, I, again, I've never seen anything like it. His family did not escape the Holocaust. It's really questionable whether he actually has Jewish heritage at all.

7 (4m 22s):
I've always joked with friends and circles, even with, in, in the campaign, I'd say, guys, I'm Jew ish, remember I was raised

6 (4m 29s):
Catholic. This is a man who campaigned very openly and very proudly as a Republican who was also openly gay, but he was also married to a woman until 2019, something he did not disclose to the public. He never worked for Citigroup. He never worked for these prestigious Wall Street firms. Didn't own any of that valuable real estate. His mother's passing in 2016 appears to have had no connection to the nine 11 terror attacks when he lived in Brazil. George Santos was involved in an alleged crime where he stole someone's checkbook. The Times has come up with documentation on social media where he allegedly admitted to having done something wrong.

6 (5m 9s):
The Brazilian government has now reopened that case. They essentially put that prosecution on, on mothballs because he vanished. He came to America and, and left their jurisdiction. Now that journalists have kind of connected the dots back to that incident, the Brazilian government says they are looking at this again as, as a possible crime. It just goes on and on to the point where, you know, what's left is sort of a portrait of a guy who was sort of struggling in life, couldn't pay his bills, left debts behind up until 2020. Had, you know, very little income friends have come forward to say he often didn't pay back money that they loaned to him, really a a struggling life that he sort of in, in this again, kind of Gatsby way, just sort of shed and, and then reinvented himself as a political candidate.

1 (5m 58s):
How did we start to find out that this gentleman who'd been elected to the US Congress was in fact making stuff up

6 (6m 6s):
Local press accounts of George Santos raised real questions about his backstory before the election, but it didn't catch fire. It didn't really get the public's attention that this guy was lying about big chunks of his, of his biography. It was really later after the election, George Santos went to this controversial gathering of Republicans in Manhattan where far right activists and even some alleged white supremacists spoke that journalists again began kind of looking deeper into his background. Who is this guy? And, and the New York Times in, in talking to people found more voices at Baruch College, at Citigroup, at Goldman Sachs who said, we don't know him.

6 (6m 49s):
He's not who he says he is. And so once that story broke, a lot of other journalists, including myself, sort of piled in to sort of see what part of his story would hold up. And again, I think to everyone's astonishment, wherever you looked, wherever you sort of lifted up a rock that he had said, you know, this is my story. This is who I am. You would look under that rock and find it. It just wasn't true. The, the facts just didn't bear it out.

1 (7m 11s):
Has George Santos admitted to any wrongdoing? W what has he said as it's come out that he's, that he's not been telling the truth.

6 (7m 19s):
He's been remarkably confrontational.

7 (7m 21s):
This isn't the made up narrative, but I feel like nobody really wants to sit down and talk about it. Everybody just wants to push me and call me a liar. Look,

6 (7m 30s):
Congressman, a lot of what he said is that this is sort of a vendetta against him by the liberal media, an attempt to bring down kind of a new Republican voice. At the same time, he has acknowledged what he describes as embellishments to his resume. He said, you know, I made some mistakes.

9 (7m 47s):
Did I embellish my resume? Yes, I did, and I'm sorry, and it shouldn't be done, but I'm still the same guy. I'm not a fraud, I'm not a cartoon character. I'm not some mis mythical creature that was invented.

6 (8m 1s):
What he hasn't done to well is, is bring forward any facts or documentation or you know, people to describe his account as being truthful. So while he's, you know, pushed back pretty aggressively and said, yes, I'm gonna serve in Congress, I'm gonna serve out my first full term. He hasn't done much to actually prove that he is anything like the politician. He presented himself as to voters,

1 (8m 23s):
The politician, but also the person. And this is where it gets very confusing because I think there's a, a knee jerk reaction, which is to say, ah, all politicians lie. But, but what's interesting in this case is it's not that he's lying about his policies. It's not that he's lying about, you know, no new taxes. He's actually lying about who he is. And so at the end of the day, what do we know for certain about who this man is?

6 (8m 49s):
I think what's really amazing here is he's, he's lying about things not only about who he is, Noel, but also about things that are really important to people in New York. You know, nine 11 is sacred ground in New York, of course, all over the country, but in New York in particular, the Holocaust, this is not something in New York City, long Island. It's not something you toy with or lie about. And so he crossed lines in describing his personal narrative. The Jewish community has reacted with real fury and real disgust at this behavior. A as you can imagine, what we're left with when you peel all of that away is, you know, so far, and this is an evolving portrait of a man with a largely, you know, unsuccessful career.

6 (9m 34s):
A man who struggled again and again to develop some kind of success according to friends and lovers and others who knew him along the way. A man who fell into the habit in his personal life of deceiving people, of telling, invented stories about himself. And that habit appears to have just kind of carried over into his political life. I will say that while a lot of this digging has happened, and we've had a lot of, you know, big revelations about him, there are still some big mysteries. You know, this is a guy who appeared really quite poor until 2020, and then all of a sudden in 2021, he starts describing in federal campaign documents millions of dollars in revenue and assets through a company that he operated, some of which about $700,000 he then donated to his own campaign.

6 (10m 28s):
And, and that sort of made sense a little bit when we thought that this was a guy who'd worked for Goldman Sachs and a guy who'd worked for Citi. But now that this was a guy who worked in a call center and this was a guy who lived with his family and couldn't pay his rent, suddenly it's like, you know, where the hell did that money come from? And I think that's one of the big mysteries going forward. Who is he? And where did his money come from

1 (10m 58s):
Coming up on today? Explained shunning, scolding. What might the Republican party do to George Santos?

10 (11m 32s):
You nervous about these scientific mysteries?

11 (11m 34s):
Yeah, yeah. Gonna do my best. Oh wait, no, we're adversaries. I'm gonna beat

10 (11m 38s):
You. That is the attitude we want.

11 (11m 40s):
Yeah. I'm not here to make friends.

10 (11m 42s):
Yeah. I'm here to guess mysteries.

11 (11m 45s):
Yeah, that's right.

10 (11m 47s):
This week on Unexplainable, we're bringing back our game show. We got three potential mysteries. Mystery one.

11 (11m 55s):
Oh no, that's terrifying.

10 (11m 58s):
Mystery two

11 (11m 59s):
What?

10 (12m 2s):
And mystery three,

11 (12m 4s):
Get out. Come on.

10 (12m 6s):
Our guest this week is Avery Truffleman, host of the Articles of Interest podcast.

11 (12m 10s):
Thanks for having me. I'm terrified.

10 (12m 15s):
She's gonna try to guess which of these mysteries are still mysteries and which one has actually recently been solved.

11 (12m 23s):
Lisa, what's the answer? What's the answer?

10 (12m 25s):
To find out, follow unexplainable For new episodes every Wednesday,

11 (12m 34s):
Tell

1 (12m 37s):
It's today explained. We're back with NPRs Brian Mann. George Santos won a congressional seat in New York State. What's notable about the district that elected him? Who, who sent this guy to congress?

6 (12m 47s):
George Santos was elected in a, a Long Island congressional district that you would describe as purple. This is a battleground district, one of the few battleground districts left in New York and left it, it really in the country. And he was part of a really bright spot for Republicans.

12 (13m 3s):
Republican George Santos also flipped New York's third congressional district defeating Democrat Robert Zimmerman. That was a big race. A lot of people did not see that coming. New York Congressman Elect George Santos joins us right now to talk more about it. Congratulations.

7 (13m 17s):
Thank you so much. This

12 (13m 18s):
Is a big deal. A Zimmerman

6 (13m 20s):
Would you'll remember in the midterms was a tough year for the g p. They fell way short of their expectations, but in New York State, they did really well. They campaigned largely on crime. Their narrative was that there was this big rise in, in violent and dangerous criminal behavior that the Democrats were to blame. And George Santos leaned hard into that narrative, again, with the support of a lot of other Republican operatives and, and top tier politicians. You

7 (13m 45s):
Don't like the police, don't call them. But over here in Long Island, we love the police and we back the

6 (13m 51s):
Blue. And in the end, he, he won Handley, he turned out to be pretty darn good on the campaign trail. All of this sort of burnished his brand. And, and it led to him being one of those really standout victories. Of course, that's heavily tarnished at this point, but he was part of a red wave here,

13 (14m 9s):
New tonight, a newly elected Republican congressman facing a barrage of questions as key parts of his resume, like where he went to college, where he worked, don't appear to be adding up.

6 (14m 19s):
I, I think it's shocking to people, I, you know, we at NPR have spoken to people on Long Island who are baffled. How can this be?

14 (14m 26s):
I just think it's such crap, like teachers have to like, present so much information in order to like, get their license and this guy's just gonna lie and still be able to go into Congress. I think it's

11 (14m 38s):
Stupid.

6 (14m 39s):
They talk about the fact that, you know, to get a job as a school teacher or as a cop or really almost anything, you have to go through pretty serious vetting and you have to kind of prove you are who you say you are. And the fact that it turns out that very little of that actually happens for someone running for one of the most powerful, prestigious offices in the country. I think that's shocking to everybody. And, and we've heard a lot of outrage and, and disappointment. And I think we also are learning again, that we kind of live in a new age of American politics. The parties can't necessarily be trusted to kick the tires on their own candidates. And we don't know anymore that conventions and traditions, and I, I hate to say it, but things like honor and honesty mean very much.

6 (15m 25s):
You know, there was a probably a time in American politics were lying. This pervasively would've caused a political party to close ranks against a newly elected official where something this egregious involving the Holocaust involving nine 11, it would've triggered a real backlash within a party. And that just hasn't happened with Republicans this time around. You know, they look very likely to ultimately embrace George Santos to work with George Santos. We'll see what kind of committee assignments he gets. And so yeah, it's, it's shocking that he got elected without much tire kicking. And it's shocking that right now at least, there are not mechanisms that exclude him from holding that power.

1 (16m 9s):
And that is in part because all of the lies that George Santos has told to this point might be interesting, might be worth digging in on. But nobody's proved that he's done anything illegal. Is that part of it? Is it that he he didn't do anything criminal that we know of?

6 (16m 25s):
You know, it turns out that the constitutional rules for who gets to serve in Congress are really minimal. It's not even entirely clear to me after speaking with a bunch of experts that criminal behavior would disqualify him from serving in Congress. Huh? Congress is a world governed more by politics and tradition than by law. And so obviously it will matter if it does emerge that there's clear evidence of criminal wrongdoing by George Santos. I wanna be clear, he says he's done done nothing criminally wrong, but as you say, lying is certainly not a disqualifier. Even on this scale. There is one of the things that I think we're all still getting used to in the Trumpian era is waking up to the fact that our democracy worked by convention and tradition rather than by really clear rules and laws.

6 (17m 17s):
And so, yeah, it turns out that there just aren't really safeguards to a guy like this other than the voters. You know, they'll obviously, if he runs again, they'll get a crack at, at this guy in 2024. But in the meantime, you know, unless something dramatic happens, he, he appears very likely to serve out a full term.

1 (17m 35s):
You allude to this interesting, if, if George Santos did something illegal, he is being investigated. Who is investigating him and what for

6 (17m 44s):
So far, n p r has confirmed that there is a, a US attorney team looking at his financial dealings and his background. There is also a prosecutor, and it's noteworthy that it's a Republican prosecutor in a district attorney in Nassau County on Long Island who's looking into his lies and deceptions. It's likely that if there's evidence of other misdeeds and other jurisdictions that more people will come in. Of course, the Brazilian government has said that they're looking at his past and it really appears likely that this will focus on the money. A lot of politicians would be in trouble if you couldn't lie about anything. It is more problematic if you lie on a federal campaign form.

6 (18m 25s):
You know, if you deceive the government about where your money is coming from, those things could be much more problematic. And so not only prosecutors, but also I think a lot of journalists are right now, are really on that money trail trying to figure out, you know, what happened there and, and did it amount to, to criminal behavior.

1 (18m 44s):
I wonder if you have any insight into why the Republican party isn't pushing for some disciplinary action. What is their calculus? If the people in his district who voted for him are angry, why doesn't the Republican party nationally say, George, you're gonna have to pay for this man.

6 (18m 60s):
I think what we're hearing from Republicans is a narrative that George Santos is gonna have to rebuild trust as if this were a conventional scandal of some kind.

15 (19m 9s):
We're a country of second chances. And when people are willing to turn their life around and, and own up to this, then do what it takes to earn respect and trust again, you know, we are willing to do that. So I'm hopeful, you know, he chooses the right path.

6 (19m 23s):
There may well be a house ethics committee probe and we'll see what they decide to do as a punishment. It could be a scolding on the house floor, some kind of wrist slapping. He could be denied committee assignments that he wants. So there are things short of excluding him from office that, that they could do. At the end of the day though, Noelle, what's really important here is power. And the Republicans hold a razor thin majority in the house. The house leadership is incredibly fragile under the Republicans and George Santos for all that he is, you know, now carrying sandbags full of scandal, he's also a crucial vote and will be a crucial vote almost every day.

6 (20m 5s):
I mean, they have so few Republicans despair right now that just people being out sick or people traveling, you know, those kinds of just normal day-to-day things could really make it hard for them to govern and to pass bills. And so, you know, as much as George Santos right now is politically damaged goods, he's also valuable goods, he is super crucial to their future. And so their ability to really punish him is very limited if they also hope to use his power.

1 (20m 34s):
Where has Kevin McCarthy come down in all of this?

6 (20m 38s):
One of the things that was really fascinating is that after the election, Kevin McCarthy gave a speech that, you know, was circulated online where he trumpeted the fact that the, the, the Jewish members of Congress from the Republican party were more numerous than ever before in history. That they were really proud that they had this big group of Jewish lawmakers on the G o p side of the aisle. And they, and he included George Santos in that list. Now that it turns out that, that George Santos is not Jewish. He's, he's Roman Catholic, maybe has some Jewish heritage, although again, that's in question. Kevin McCarthy has been silent and other top Republicans who've been instrumental in getting Santos elected.

6 (21m 20s):
They've gone silent, you know, Elise Stefanik, this very influential New York State House member. She's a top leader in the G O P now. She really leaned in hard to get Santo selected, helped him raise money, appeared with him. She's gone silent about all of this. A and that's been a pattern. You know, a lot of times when republicans have been confronted by, you know, these really top tier scandals, they've just faded back and they've tried to kind of write it out. And so we'll see where the house g o p leadership ultimately lands with Santos, but so far they seem very likely to, to welcome him into the ranks.

1 (21m 56s):
Without asking you to predict too much, what do you think is going to happen next? What are you looking to cover yourself?

6 (22m 2s):
I think the money is the most fascinating thing here. You know, where did George Santo's money come from? I really think we'll learn a lot more about that in, in the weeks ahead, and that could be his Achilles heel. I think that there is also gonna be an interesting story to play out here about how American democracy adapts to characters like George Santos. You know, in this populist era, we're seeing more people come forward running for incredibly high office who have no history, no policy background, no track record, they are blank slates in terms of policy. And up until now, I think journalists and even political actors, you know, have been lazy about vetting these people and saying, okay, this is a whole new world.

6 (22m 52s):
You know, there was a time, you know, I'm 57 and for most of my career, if somebody was running for Congress, you kind of knew who they were. They'd been around, you know, they were known faces and, and maybe they had some scandals in their past, but they were known scandals. Now I think we're gonna see more and more of these people who pop up out of the Tea Party movement or the MAGA movement or you know, a a as the, the party structures fray. And I think that's one of the things that I'm really gonna be doing a lot more of is just basic, you know, who are these people? Did they really go to school where they say they went to school? Are there businesses that they claim success with? Were, were they real? And I hate to say that we're entering another stage of cynicism or skepticism, but I think the George Santo story proves that that's necessary and warranted.

1 (23m 52s):
Today's episode was produced by Amanda Lou Ellen. It was edited by Amina Elad and it was engineered by Paul Robert Mosey. It was fact checked by Serena Solan. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.