3 (0s):
This is Saint Dominic. I'm an assistant managing editor at the New York Times. Our Newsroom has been empty since March, but we've been busier than ever before the pandemic has changed how we work, but it hasn't changed what we do. This is why we became journalists to bring to light real verified information when the stakes couldn't be higher. We can't do this work without our subscribers. If you'd like to subscribe, please go to nytimes.com / subscribe and

1 (29s):
thanks. Support for the show today comes from food specifically fresh produce sustainable Seafood meat without the antibiotics son basket. We're talking about son basket many of their meals are crafted by Michelin

3 (43s):
award-winning chefs. You can try

1 (46s):
dinners like their Southwestern turkey and sweet potatoes Skillet that our cauliflower macaroni and cheese and much more right now son basket is offering $35 off your order when you go to Sun basket.com explain and enter the promo code explained it check out. That is Sun basket.com. Explain them enter the promo code explain that check out for $35 off your order some basket.com explained with the promo code explained. The United States presidential election is now less than a week away.

1 (1m 29s):
It might take days to get the results in might take a week. It might take a month. We don't know but it could be over on November 3rd and wouldn't that be nice? We've been talking about this election on the show since February of 19 seriously, I looked it up recently. We've come at it from any number of angles. But one thing we haven't done a ton of is just hear how people plan to vote who people plan to vote for So today we're going to do that. We're going to hear from Farmers from Frontline workers. We're going to hear from political organizers and from a few voters who are named Ruth, but let's kick things off with someone who's voting for the very

3 (2m 12s):
first time. Daniel Simeon got here senior 48 years old and Mountain View correctional facility and Charleston main I have already voted this year. There's a Wednesday morning. I got up out of bed had breakfast waited around watch the nose and about 9:30 10 o'clock officer called my name, so I went up to the desk and I got my letter which said official ballot and close so I took it is that Dynamite. Unk and I filled out my ballot signed it put it back in the envelope with a stamp on it brought it back up to the corrections officer gave it to him and asked him if he would please mail my belt back I have never voted before I got interested in it by watching the news and listening to the correction officers talking and reading the newspaper because we have a lot of time in our hands in here and it's actually pretty interesting kind of exciting to be part of something bigger than

4 (3m 12s):
myself.

3 (3m 15s):
I voted for President Trump because I think some of his ideas are actually pretty good. And mr. Biden. I think within two years he's not going to be very coherent. So we're going to end up having somebody else's president if he's elected. I'll be out of prison in six months. So I believe that if given the chance the president could open the economy back up open more. Gobs make it easier for somebody getting out of prison to reintegrate into society to maybe get a job get a place to live all

4 (3m 54s):
that. Hi, my name is

3 (3m 59s):
Alexei Reyes. I'm a Mexican photographer and artist I'm 19. And I live in Texas this year. I'm going to be voting for Biden Harris. I think right now we really do need a change in leadership. I wouldn't say I'm an enthusiastic Biden voter. I would say that I want change and I think the best way to have that is to elect Biden into office. I'm passionate about things like making sure we get a cure for covid and that it ends soon. I think same-sex marriage is super important and shouldn't be taken away. I also believe things like gun control are super important, especially as someone that just graduated.

3 (4m 43s):
I think it's super important to feel safe in school because it's somewhere you need to go learn not be worried about your safety the Hispanic boat can definitely vary but I think with younger people we're focused on everyone rather than just ourselves. So we want to make sure that not just a Hispanic Community but the black community the Asian Community feel safe as well. So we're voting for them not just for us. My name is Armando ivara. I'm the president of the Miami and Republicans and I'm very proud to be voting for President. Donald Trump.

3 (5m 24s):
Here are our Miami Latino Community. We feel like he values us and this goes for the cuban-american community for the Venezuelan American Community for the Colombian American Community for the Nicaraguan American Community. He came to Miami and he made promises to us. He promised us that maximum pressure against the Cuban and Venezuela. Nicaraguan dictatorships, he promised that he would stand with the Venezuelan people and he recognized one Guido as a legitimate president of Venezuela. He indicted Nicolas Maduro he came here and he promised Colombian Americans that he would stand with President Abbas booty Bay and the he would fight against gospel chavismo.

3 (6m 5s):
That's trying to harm Columbia. So, you know, I think in all these cases he came to our community he made promises to us. Us but then he delivered on those promises and our leaders in our community. We have positions of impact in the administration's and influence within the party and administration and I think this is a complete contrast with Joe Biden in the Democrats who on the other hand. They relegate Latinos to a kid's table with nonsense like Latin X and this besito and so I think you know, it's very clear that the Democratic party wants our votes, but the Republican Party Works to earn our

1 (6m 44s):
votes My name is Bruce Lee Mack. I am 44 years old originally from Brooklyn New York. But I live in Charlotte North Carolina Janet Braden 65 and I live in Crawford, Texas the issue I organized most around is racial justice social justice and black liberation. I've already voted for President Trump. I think what we're going to see is that a Biden win will be very directly connected to mobilization of Self racial Justice movements across the country and so when we come out of this election, hopefully in the other side, these conversations are going to have to be around where the gaps exist between what we see as the direct needs and material needs of our communities and what the Biden Harris Camp might see as solutions to those issues.

1 (7m 39s):
I relocated from California because I didn't like the Taxation and all that was going on in California. My father was manufacturer in East LA of Architectural Hardware. He sold his company and late 70s because he no longer wanted to deal with all of the regulations and used to say if you ran his company like the government he would have been bankrupt years ago, and I thought, you know could have businessmen do any worse than the idiot politicians that we've had for the last umpteen skillion year. Is that it's just not ever getting better. They say they're doing something but they're not we are looking at a catastrophic tumble into fascism on one side and on the other maintenance of a flawed but certainly still democratic system.

1 (8m 30s):
And so the attacks on Birthright citizenship on Curbing immigrants and refugees here in this country the significant amount of deportations. All those things are directly affected my personal Community my main reason for voting for who I vote for our taxes, obviously the safety of this country, you know, we've always had borders. Why can't we continue to have borders all other countries seem to have borders I've had to go through a lot of Hoops to get into just go into Mexico for vacation yet. We allow people to just pour into this country and then we're supposed to take care of them.

1 (9m 12s):
I don't have a problem with bringing people into this country, but they Play by the rules. We have the rules. Let's follow them. Otherwise why even have stop signs? My name is Sana Haider. I am 26 years old and I live in Lisle, Illinois and I am a kindergarten teacher. I'll be voting for Joe Biden this year something that's very important to me is that everyone should feel comfortable in the space that you're living in? So I am a Muslim who wears a job.

1 (9m 53s):
I never felt like I stood out in a negative way and I've never experienced this in my life where I feel anxious walking down the street because of the stairs that I get or what people might say and I have never felt more self-conscious than in these past four years. So on a personal standpoint, That's where I'm at as a kindergarten teacher. One thing right off the bat that myself and a lot of Educators were not happy with when Trump got elected was that he chose Betsy DeVos as his secretary for education and she is an individual who has absolutely zero experience and education and in public education and a lot of what she is promoting under this Trump Administration.

1 (10m 47s):
Is to cut Federal funding and take that money and spend it towards private schooling you have to understand that the majority of our population in this country. Our kids are receiving public education. And if they are not getting the services that they deserve because of the area that they live in or because they come from a different background. That's an extreme disservice to

4 (11m 16s):
them.

3 (11m 20s):
My name is Terence. Woz. I am 41 years old. I'm a McDonald's worker and a leader in the fight for 15 in the union living in Kansas City, Missouri when I think about the upcoming election and and so much at stake and when you think about what the working class has been going through even before the pandemic begin this year the lack of Union the lack of healthcare the lack of a living wage all across the board all across the country. It's Clear that the working class best interest has not been upheld in this current Administration. So I think from a personal standpoint, it's clear that I'm on the Biden Harris ticket and my plan for election day is the vote in

4 (12m 6s):
person.

3 (12m 7s):
You know, I'm going to be there at The Ballot Box with my fiance and my daughter who's 18 and this is her first year voting. So I think we got to go to The Ballot Box not as an individual but as a community Unity as a family and as a working class if we want to make

4 (12m 23s):
change

3 (12m 33s):
I promise you hear from some voters named Ruth. They're coming after a quick break on today explained.

1 (12m 50s):
Support for the show today comes from all birds when you're buying clothes. You're probably thinking Hmm. How do I look in this t-shirt in these genes, but maybe you should also be thinking about what is the environmental impact of this t-shirt of these genes all birds is thinking about that kind of stuff and that's why all their stuff is made from premium natural materials or talking Merino wool. We're talking eucalyptus fiber. We're talking a new naturally derived fiber called Qaeda saint. Actually extracted from discarded crab shells y'all to reduce odor and keep you fresh all day. All birds has a fly new t-shirt called the true. No XO T.

1 (13m 31s):
It's super soft. I felt one myself get crazy and layer it with a wool crewneck or a sweater or cardigan for a super warm and comfortable cold weather uniform. All birds is got you back with all birds. You can feel confident knowing you're wearing a product that's doing right by you and the planet if you're looking to

3 (13m 50s):
get a head start on holiday

1 (13m 51s):
gifting this here head over to all birds.com today for the perfect gift to give and maybe even receive if you're lucky. What would we have done without the internet this year hell of a lot less socializing working learning streaming explaining and coping the internet is

3 (14m 14s):
our Lifeline. That's why we deserve a better one Firefox is the only web browser back by a non-profit whose mission is to keep your online life private while leaving the internet safer less divisive and more welcoming than they found it right now algorithms and AD dollars have an outsized influence on our relationships Society. Even our elections Mozilla says it's time to unfuck the internet start by declaring your Independence protect that makes you the product visit Firefox.com explained to download a more open

1 (14m 46s):
informative weirdly magical web

3 (14m 48s):
for yourself and take the first step to make the web a better place for everyone else Firefox fill for internet levers back by a non-profit.

1 (15m 6s):
Alright, we're back on the show. Today. We're hearing from voters conservative Progressive white black. And of course Farmers, we got to hear from Farmers. The president loves to talk about farmers and some of them love to talk about him. Well, my name is Chris Peterson and I live in Grants Berg, Wisconsin and I will be 68 years old. We have a dairy farm in Northwest Wisconsin about 70 miles north of Minneapolis st. Paul and Going to be voting for President Trump in all my time on the farm. I grew up in Minneapolis. I was a city slicker and I married this really cute farmer in northern Wisconsin and in all my time as a farmer.

1 (15m 48s):
I was so struck by how difficult it was that agriculture was and how hard it was to get milk out of cows and worried about the crops and blah blah blah and President Trump talks about agriculture and his Farmers. He talks about them all the time and he has he values. Choose what we do and he keeps his promises agriculture is the backbone and strength of our country. And for some reason this city slicker from New York City gets that President Trump and that's why we think he's just the best thing since

4 (16m 24s):
sliced bread.

3 (16m 29s):
Matt Russell 50 years old. Mokona Iowa. I am a farmer and my husband and I farm here in South Central, Iowa. We're voting for Vice President Biden and Senator Kamala Harris. I think this Administration has invested tens of billions of dollars. I think we be approaching a hundred billion dollars in this Administration to try to just keep the farm industry or the agricultural industry in the United States and the status quo position and that's not good for us instead of thinking about how do we invest to make our systems more resilient?

3 (17m 15s):
We just kind of doubled down on what we've got. So more of the same crops more of the same livestock more of the same processing facilities and More of those same people involved. So I think the Trump Administration has a used Rural America for political purposes. And in terms of farmers, they've Unleashed unbelievable amount of subsidies in compensation for the trade war and in failing on covid and I really feel like Biden and Harris have put plans together to invest in Farmer Rancher and rural American leadership for the 21st century

1 (18m 2s):
My name is Ruth Malhotra and I was in Atlanta Georgia. I'm 36 years old. My name is Ruth little I live just outside of Orlando Florida and I'm 61. I've been involved in Republican politics for a very long time actually going back to 1996. I was only 12 years old and ever since that time have taken a real interest in politics and the presidency. I'm still undecided. I'm not happy with. Either of the choices. Honestly Trump is just not a nice person. I just think he's problematic in a lot of ways. I think the fact that he's had so many cabinet positions people rotating in and out, but Trump is tougher.

1 (18m 48s):
I think he's kind of known as a negotiator and while you might disagree with some of the details the work that he's done with our relations to China. I think there was a justments to our trade agreements with China that worries. easy to ignore and I think it was it was high time that we address some of the trade issues and the way that China Seas intellectual property rights when 2016 rolls around I was really shocked and disillusion in many ways to see how President Trump sort of took Center Stage or seem like he came out of nowhere and the policies he was promoting and the promises he was making I just didn't trust that he would All three with that I thought you know, maybe a lot of this is just pandering to these different constituencies, especially to myself as a Evangelical Christian.

1 (19m 42s):
I thought well, maybe he's just telling us what we want to hear. So I voted independent four years ago my first time to not vote Republican Joe Biden honestly, his age is part of my concern Trump really seems to be pretty sharp whether you agree with him or not. My perception is that the Democrats tend to have a slightly softer position on International matters, and I think there's certainly a time for diplomacy. But I think there's also time to for strength, you know, the number one issue for me is dignity of human life starting with life at conception. And so he made a lot of promises to the pro-life Community for years ago again.

1 (20m 26s):
I was somewhat skeptical but he has championed the pro-life cause from One is and his administration. For instance the heartbeat bills that were prevalent throughout the country other issues of importance are religious. Liberty Free Speech, you know a whole category of First Amendment issues as I followed those actions and the intangible results. I do feel that it's the same intellectual honesty that compelled me to oppose his candidacy. Last time is actually what this compelling me to vote for him this time. I'm I'm frustrated with the machine that again has given me two choices that are not good.

1 (21m 8s):
I would have liked to have had two completely different choices in 2016. And I really wish that we had different choices. Now. I am puzzled and dismayed that the collective we came up with these two candidates. You know, I still do have serious concerns about President Trump and it's not an easy. Easy decision for me and as a friend of mine said, you know, sometimes you're given a menu of undesirable options and then you have to choose from that and so I just pray for wisdom and realize that it's the people who make America great not any one person in political power, but all of us doing our part to contribute to a healthy and hopeful

4 (21m 55s):
Society.

3 (21m 58s):
My name's Arthur long work. I'm 55 years old and I am in Washington State Reformatory in Monroe. Washington incarcerated people in Washington state are not allowed to vote in the presidential election. If I could vote I would vote for by

1 (22m 14s):
then. I do I ended on Biden because you know, I have to believe in Redemption as possible.

3 (22m 23s):
Why is the context of remorse and Redemption so important to me? I guess I have to believe it. Every young person I killed somebody I was sent to prison for murder. I've spent my whole adult life locked up in prison. I have a sentence with never' hasn't been done till I die. If I don't believe in them those things I don't believe in myself and I think we're fighting comes in on Redemption is as important as a hard choice. I mean, here's a guy who was an Ardent backer of the 1994 crime Bill one of the biggest contributors to the mass incarceration State we have going on. But where the possibility of redemption comes in as you know, I've heard.

3 (23m 4s):
Fighting admit he was wrong coming to that's big for me. I'm aware. Kamala Harris is his running mate that kept a long record of prosecutor and and the record as being attorney general, but I've also heard her Express. If not the most or her past actions at least determination to move forward and look more deeply into those things. Conscious that Trump before he was president. He used his money is power in this country to pick out a full-page ad in the New York Times calling for the death penalty against the Central Park five those people who weren't even 18 years old.

3 (23m 50s):
For Crime, it turns out they didn't even end up commit and he's never apologized for that. And now he wants to portray himself as a prison reformer. He's not showing any signs of

4 (24m 1s):
redemption.

1 (24m 7s):
Arthur Longworth you might remember Arthur from a previous episode of today explained he was on our show about

3 (24m 17s):
covid-19 in

1 (24m 19s):
American prisons back in April. We want to hear from Arthur again because he's one of many American citizens who don't have the privilege of voting this year. There's about 5 million of them out there anyone who's incarcerated outside of Vermont or Maine most people who have been convicted of felonies people on probation. Our friends in American Samoa the US Virgin Islands Guam the Northern Mariana Islands and Puerto Rico and let's not forget voter suppression. Like every other year votes won't be counted this year people will be turned away from the polls because

3 (24m 52s):
their names aren't on the roles because they don't have ID as we covered in our show yesterday the Supreme Court

1 (24m 57s):
just overruled an effort to extend voting deadlines on mailed ballots in Wisconsin deadlines that were extended because we're in a global pandemic and finally Let's not forget people who just can't get Tuesday off to go vote people who have to work in spite of all of that. American voters are already breaking records this year there have already been something like 70 million votes cast by some counts and some forecasters say 65 percent of the country will show up to vote in this presidential election. The highest number

3 (25m 33s):
since 1908 and that is

4 (25m 36s):
during Global pandemic

1 (25m 40s):
I'm Sean Rama's firm. The today explain team includes Halima Shah will read mu JT Amanda al-saadi and know I'm hassenfeld who contributes music to the rest of our music comes from brake master cylinder extra help this week from bird Pinkerton Cecilia lay and Paul Mounds e a film Shapiro is the show's engineer gold Arthur is our supervising producer and Liz Kelly Nelson is vaux's editorial director of podcasts today.

3 (26m 7s):
Explained is part of the VOX media podcast

4 (26m 11s):
Network.

3 (26m 27s):
This is Mark Lacy National editor at the New York Times as we head into a pivotal election. It's our mission to find answers to the questions you have. That means analyzing what the candidates are saying, but it also means looking deeply at the issues from an economy under stress to a national Reckoning on racism every day. We do the research so we can help you make an informed decision. None of this work would be possible without our subscribers if you'd like to subscribe to the times go to nytimes.com. Hi, I'm nilay Patel co-founder and editor and chief of The Verge and host of decoder a new podcast from The Verge in the VOX media podcast network of a big ideas and other problems for over a decade.

3 (27m 10s):
I've been interviewing leaders from the worlds of Technology business and policy about how they run their organizations make decisions and consider policy changes that could fundamentally alter entire Industries like Senator Ed Markey on the future of connectivity in America. Broadband has become the equivalent. Of water or electricity for people AMD CEO. Dr. Lisa Sue on building the next generation of processors,

1 (27m 33s):
you know, the idea was technology is you have to make a set of choices three to

3 (27m 38s):
five years in advance Google an alphabet CEO Sundar pichai on the current crisis and adapting to it cold. It is blurred the lines between consumer and Enterprise and people are using products in all kinds of contexts and Neil Young on from his feelings the MacBook Pro. It's a piece of crap. Are you kidding with decoder? I'll be ending this conversations with a diverse cast of CEOs policymakers and innovators some you know, and some you wouldn't expect we'll talk about how they're navigating and ever-changing Landscape what keeps them up at night and what it all means for our shared future. We're asking tough questions going to break some news and we're going to have some fun. So look for a decoder with nilay Patel and apple podcasts or your favorite podcast.