0 (0s):
Hi, I'm Neil Patel, editor of the verge and host of the decoder podcast. The verge is turning 10 this year. That's incredible. It's impossible to please, but celebrate. We're throwing a huge two-day event in New York city on October 22nd and 23rd. And you were invited it's the verge. Like you've never seen it before with a huge lineup of special guests, interactive experiences and a major opening night party. So go to Vox media events.com/otv tickets. So learn more and grab your tickets. We'll see you on the verge

1 (40s):
A week ago today, president Biden addressed the nation last

2 (44s):
Night in Qubole. The United States ended 20 years of war in Afghanistan, the longest war in American history

1 (54s):
In his speech. He talked about the costs of war.

2 (57s):
There was nothing low grade or low risk or low cost about any war. It's time to end the war in Afghanistan.

1 (1m 5s):
And in explaining some of the costs, he cited the work of one particular group.

2 (1m 10s):
$2 trillion spent in Afghanistan costs. The researchers at brown university estimated would be over $300 million a day for 20 years in Afghanistan for two decades.

3 (1m 26s):
So the two actually comes from us. Stephanie,

1 (1m 29s):
The Savelle is the co-director of the costs of war project at brown university. I asked her how it felt to hear the president's site, her work on how much this war cost over the estimates of, you know, his own government.

3 (1m 42s):
It's crazy. So the, the Pentagon, the department of defense says 1 trillion, the Afghanistan war has cost 1 trillion. We say it's two, because we, you have to think about like, these wars have caught, you know, veterans care and interest. And these wars have not just been fought abroad. They've been, there's been a domestic component as well.

1 (2m 4s):
And you're saying the Pentagon doesn't do that.

3 (2m 7s):
And the Pentagon doesn't do that. And nor does any other government agency like, like that, that's why Biden is using our number to talk about how much the war on terror has cost in Afghanistan. And, you know, we feel like that's a big win on our end for that 2 trillion to even be included in the public discourse at all. Like that's our goal is let's really let's push the envelope and let's not accept what the government figures are at face value, because there's a bigger story to tell there's a broader sense of costs that we need to talk about

1 (2m 44s):
With Stephanie's help. We're going to try and assess the true costs of nine 11 and the war on terror in terms of treasure, but also in terms of lives lost,

4 (2m 55s):
The search is underway for those who are behind these evil acts. I have directed the full resources of our intelligence and law enforcement communities to find those responsible and to bring them to justice. We will make no distinction between the terrorist who committed these acts and those who harbored them.

1 (3m 15s):
Stephanie, we all know about 3000 people died in the attacks on September 11th, 2001, but how many people have died because of everything that's followed

3 (3m 26s):
A shocking number, actually it's 929,000 people have died as a result of the U S post nine 11 wars that's in Afghanistan and Pakistan, which is part of the same war zone. It's also in Iraq, a portion of the Syrian conflict that has to do with the U S kind of hunting down ISIS in Syria and Yemen, and a few other war zones, 929,000 people have died directly through, you know, bombs and bullets, airstrikes, things like that.

1 (4m 1s):
And you come to this number by doing your own data collection, is that right?

3 (4m 6s):
This was compiled by my colleagues, Nita Crawford and Catherine Lutz. They look at different data sources. So the DOD puts out a certain number of us. Service members killed media reports will give further clarifying details and they use sources from the UN like unanimous civilian casualty figures. So it's really about kind of compiling a bunch of different numbers from different data sources and using the right dates for the beginning of us involvement and things like that. There's a lot of kind of thought and calculation that goes in into each data point that that makes up the total

1 (4m 43s):
And your process is different from that of DOD, the department of defense, they don't end up with the same number, close to a million lives lost in the United States is war on terror,

3 (4m 54s):
Huge political incentive for the Pentagon to minimize the civilian casualty count. So a lot of times what they do is they'll put a death in the category. Oh, that was a militant. That was what they would say is as a extremist or a terrorist, right? And we include all of those militants in our total account and 929,000 a because every life matters. And every death is tragic for, for the family members of the people who lose them. And B a lot of the people that the us categorizes as militants are actually civilians. And the perfect example of this is in Somalia

5 (5m 35s):
Tonight, the U S striking a terror target and unmanned drone hitting Al-Shabaab militants in Somalia, the Pentagon estimating eight militants killed

3 (5m 45s):
You asked, has been engaged in airstrikes in Somalia for a decade, at least trying to fight this group named Al-Shabaab in Somalia. And of all of those hundreds of the U S acknowledged one in which there have been civilian casualties. And so amnesty international has done a bunch of reporting and talking to people and figuring out exactly kind of documenting the stories of civilians who are killed by USA or strikes. And the Pentagon is, is simply saying that that isn't happening and why it's because, you know, once the civilian casualty count starts rising, there's a lot more political pressure on the U S government to stop what it's doing.

3 (6m 29s):
And so that's kind of a red flag kind of a thing. So the incentive is to minimize it.

1 (6m 35s):
And when people think of the war on terror in the United States, they think about Afghanistan. They think about Iraq. How many countries is this war taking place in, or has it taken place in over the past 20 years,

3 (6m 46s):
Put together a map that shows in 2018 to 2020, that the U S has conducted counter-terror activities and operations in get this 85 countries, 85. I went into it thinking, okay, this is going to be pretty straightforward. We're going to have, you know, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, Syria, maybe a couple of others. People might not know as much about like Libya, Yemen, Somalia. And those certainly are the kind of places where we've, we've been the most aggressive and had the most kind of active targeting of, you know, militants. So airstrikes and raids on compounds and things like that.

3 (7m 27s):
Had it gone announcing

6 (7m 28s):
A short time ago that both manned and unmanned drone aircraft conducted a series of airstrikes in Libya against ISIS targets.

3 (7m 37s):
But then there's this whole other kind of, I think of it as kind of an octopus, like, like tentacles stretching all across the world of activity. And that ranges from everything from, you know, military exercises with other countries, there are

6 (7m 52s):
Currently 4,500 us military personnel here in Jordan, engaging in these exercises. They're running through scenarios for everything from a chemical attack to a terrorist attack, to kind

3 (8m 4s):
Of, you know, display show force to deter militants. There's the biggest category, which is training and assistance

6 (8m 13s):
Three weeks after the kidnapping of more than 200 Nigerian girls, us military advisors are on the ground being joined by FBI and other personnel

3 (8m 24s):
Sounds kind of innocuous. Like we're helping other countries, which we're helping them do. Counter-terrorism better. And in a lot of places, what really happens is we are helping authoritarian regimes, giving them the latest excuse to crack down on political opponents, by calling them terrorists and exacerbating a lot of local conflicts that are happening through this kind of war on terror, narrative and approach and all the funding and the equipment and the weapons that prop it up

1 (8m 55s):
Is the reason that most Americans might think of the war on terror. As two wars started by president George W. Bush in Iraq and Afghanistan, and not say something that's fitting into an umbrella of something like 85 countries, because we're only seeing us service members dying in larger numbers in Iraq and Afghanistan for 20 years.

3 (9m 15s):
One of the big myths of about war in general, like a kind of a failure that Americans have and understanding what war really means is this kind of focus on the fact that it's us soldiers, who are the ones who are dying, but what does war really really mean? It's civilians in the war zones who are dying and not only dying, but kind of suffering and living with trauma for the rest of their lives. It's 38 million people displaced it's women in the war zones who are having miscarriages and babies with birth defects because of environmental contamination. It's people with such trauma at losing both their husband and their male children that they become addicted to drugs.

3 (10m 2s):
You know, it's just these kind of countless ripple effects and horrifying stories. That's what war is 7,052 us service members have died in these post nine 11 wars. And that includes the 13 who died in the blast of the Kabul airport in comparison 387,000 civilians have died in these wars.

3 (10m 43s):
So it's just kind of an astronomically different scale of death. When you look at the civilians abroad compared to the U S service members, I think that that number in itself just really begs us to ask these kinds of questions that, that the cost of war project tries to push. Like it was this fourth. It, I mean, how can the answer be? Yes, those 7,000 service members I mentioned who died four times as many more, have actually died by suicide than in combat in the post nine 11 wars, over 30,000 service members and veterans of these wars have taken their own lives.

3 (11m 25s):
It symbolizes a much wider problem that we have amongst that group of people of just, just kind of the, the trauma that they are facing as a result of war, the multiple deployments that they've had, the kind of moral injuries of war. There are so many reasons why our veterans today are having more kind of mental health problems than in any previous generation of vets. So that's a really important thing to note as well.

1 (11m 59s):
It seems like the more you consider the repercussions of these wars, the more people you realize have actually been affected. And unfortunately, the more people you realize have died, is there a chance that even your number that's approaching 1 million could be an undercount?

3 (12m 15s):
Oh, it absolutely is an undercount. That's just the number of people who have died directly. As I said, by bombs and bullets, that's kind of the shorthand way of explaining it, but think about all the reverberating effects, all the ripple effects of war. As I said, 38 million people have been displaced by the post nine 11 wars and this kind of the broad umbrella of wars that I'm talking about, including in Syria and Yemen and other places, they lose their jobs, they lose their communities. They don't have a way of earning a living anymore. So, so think about the displacement. Think about the fact that in war, oftentimes it's a tactic of war to bomb infrastructure like sewage systems.

3 (13m 2s):
So you think about like one of the major causes of death right now in Iraq amongst children is just childhood diarrhea. The sewage systems are broken down. The, the water treatment facilities are broken down and the health care systems have been decimated and Iraq and Afghanistan by the wars. So healthcare workers have had to flee the country. People are unable to get to hospitals and clinics because there's IDs on the roads. And just so many ways in which people are dying and, and ill because of these wars that we just can't possibly count. So the UN has estimated that for every direct death in a conflict, there are at least three times as many more people who have died indirectly.

3 (13m 48s):
So multiply that 929,000 by three. And you're starting to approach the low end of the possible range of the additional amount of people who have been killed

2 (14m 5s):
As we close 20 years of war and strife and pain and sacrifice. It's time to look to the future. Not the past to future. That safer to future is more secure to future the honors. Those who served and all those who gave what president Lincoln called their last full measure of devotion. The war

1 (14m 28s):
In Afghanistan is ending at least in terms of soldiers on the ground, but as the one terror ending.

3 (14m 37s):
No, that's one of the biggest misleading things that we hear in the media these days is that this is the end of the forever war. And, you know, Biden like Trump before him wants to get credit, wants to be acknowledged for ending the forever war. These wars are hugely unpopular, especially among the younger generations. But the fact of the matter is that counter-terrorism has become the latest justification for us militarism in so many places. So there's the 85 countries that I talked about, where if you look at what's happening in Africa, for example, there are us military bases, us is doing training and assistance all over the place.

3 (15m 19s):
We are dropping drone strikes on Somalia. We engaged in combat just last year with, at a base in Kenya. There were raids that we were participating in the U S troops were participating in, in Mali and <inaudible> in 2017. You might remember there were the news about the, for us service member deaths and new share, and, you know, Congress was freaking out and the U S public was like, what, what are we doing in these years? But this is actually just very much part of the U S approach to Africa today. So there's that answer to your question. And then in Afghanistan itself, you know, the CIA is training and equipping militia groups to continue fighting ISIS in Afghanistan.

3 (16m 7s):
There are the, all of these defense contracting companies that are still on the ground. So there are lots of shadowy ways that this war is continuing. And I think that we really need to hold our government accountable for these kinds of activities. We can't just let this go under the radar screen and just kind of say, oh, well, the forever war is over. And now we don't really have to think about it anymore because we absolutely do.

1 (16m 54s):
More with Stephanie when we return

8 (17m 35s):
This is advertiser content from lending tree in this golden age of streaming, we are inundated with choice when it comes to what to watch a study found that a personable spend over 1.3 years of their life, scrolling guides and menus to find something to watch and stuff.

0 (17m 54s):
Anytime I think I've seen it, all, something comes up that tells me I have it professional

8 (17m 59s):
Critic, Robert Daniels of 8 1, 2 film reviews. When it comes to choosing our next movie or TV binge, many of us rely on reviews to help us narrow our pitch. I'm

0 (18m 10s):
Hoping that it saves them time. I'm hoping that they don't have the same feeling that I have when I watch something that I don't like. And I feel like, oh, I just wasted my time.

8 (18m 19s):
If we put in the research time before two hour screening, why don't we do the same for big financial decisions? Lending tree is a one-stop marketplace where you can easily compare ratings for loans, credit cards, insurance, and more so not only do you save money, you save time, find lending tree on the app store, or go to lendingtree.com to learn more terms and conditions apply in MLS. Number 1, 1, 3, 6,

1 (18m 52s):
Stephanie, w we've been talking about the costs of nine 11 and the war on terror in terms of life. But what about in terms of treasure? How much has the war on terror costs in the United States? So far

3 (19m 5s):
It's cost us $8 trillion in both spent funds and funds that we've committed to care for vets over the next 30 years or so until 20, $58 trillion. How do you even explain how massive that is? It's something we can't even grasp. I mean, how do you calculate it? You know, you can't just look at what the, the Pentagon calls the war, it's the war budget. It's the overseas contingency operations. That's a certain figure, but you have to kind of go bigger and deeper. So you have to also think about the money that we spend on veterans' care. As I mentioned, the fact that these have been credit card wars and we paid for largely through borrowing and we owe interest on debt.

3 (19m 48s):
And so we include that interest as a line in the calculation to China. Well, partially, yeah, there are more, more foreign lenders than ever before in, in the history of the U S and how it's paid for wars.

1 (20m 3s):
A little ironic considering that the real adversary that president Biden now wants to pivot to is China.

2 (20m 10s):
The world is changing. We're engaged in a serious competition with China. We're dealing with the challenges on multiple fronts with Russia, we're confronted with cyber attacks and nuclear proliferation. We have to shore up America competitive to meet these new challenges and the competition for the 21st century. So the

3 (20m 35s):
Way that the war has been paid for it's predicted to like rising levels of social inequality in this country, as well, compared to passwords. If you look at like world war two, there were war bonds. And, and in, in the Korean war, it was entirely paid for through raising taxes. The combination today of tax cuts and war borrowing, not just to, you know, from foreign lenders, but also kind of institutions within the U S and wealthy individuals, that's predicted to even higher rates of social inequality in the aftermath of the war, as the U S begins paying back this debt, that's going to make the rich richer and the us public just hasn't been contributing.

3 (21m 17s):
I mean, that's one of the biggest reasons why there's such a disconnect too, amongst the American public with these wars is we haven't really felt them in our, in our pocket books, as much as we, we would have in prior wars

1 (21m 31s):
To his credit president Biden is at least acknowledging a less convenient assessment of the costs of the war on terror, which is to say your organization's assessment. Of course, it's very convenient for him to use a more critical assessment as he tries to end this war. Is it only when it's politically expedient that our leaders actually acknowledge the costs of these kinds of conflicts?

3 (21m 55s):
There's definitely something to that. But I think that the status quo, I mean, look at Congress. The status quo is just to kind of throw money at the Pentagon. Not only do they, not for the most part question, the massive amount of annual funding we give to the Pentagon, which is $800 billion a year at this point, but they, they oftentimes will give the Pentagon more than what the president asks for. So, you know, there's a real level of responsibility at the level of Congress that they're not doing enough to kind of question these costs and why

9 (22m 30s):
In the councils of government, we must guard against the acquisition, have unwarranted influence whether sought or unsought by the military industrial complex, we should take nothing for granted. Only an alert and knowledgeable citizenry can compel the proper meshing of the huge industrial and military machinery of defense with our peaceful methods and goals. So that security and Liberty may prosper together are

3 (23m 0s):
Defense contractors who are heavily invested in maintaining all this war money in this war funding. There's a revolving door between Congress and some of these defense contracting companies, the weapons manufacturers and military bases are very strategically located in so many districts and states throughout the United States. So lots of members of Congress have an incentive to kind of protect those industries in their home districts.

1 (23m 28s):
This feels like a, probably a good time to acknowledge the fact that a lot of money was made in the war on terror, too. Right.

3 (23m 35s):
We have a paper coming out soon that asked that question who has profited from the post nine 11 wars. And the answer is these defense contracting companies. And these are, you know, Lockheed Martin Raytheon, general dynamics, Boeing Northrup Grumman. Those are the top five. And to give you just one example, Lockheed Martin made $75 billion in 2020 in Pentagon contracts by comparison the whole entire state department budget for 2020, which also includes USA ID. So all like us development and state department work, that was 44 billion before nine 11, we were in the budget was in surplus.

3 (24m 19s):
And since nine 11, we've gone into deficit spending as a country.

1 (24m 23s):
And what do you find when you share these numbers with people, not, you know, in your, in your publishing, but just on an individual level, when you talk to people about these numbers,

3 (24m 31s):
It's so comfortable for us as Americans to just think, oh, that's happening to civilians over there in that part of the world. It enables us to check out a little bit in terms of our kind of moral compass and, and just, just kind of, well, you know, that sucks and not think too much about it. But what I hope is that with these numbers and with some of the stories that we tell, it gives people a way to realize that they have a personal stake.

1 (25m 5s):
Has anyone ever found out what you do for a living and been angry at you saying, you know, these are important wars. Like we lost 3000 American lives. How dare you question it?

3 (25m 19s):
I think there is that perspective, certainly. And kind of more of a dismissal, like who are you young lady to be talking about this? Like, what do you know about war? You know? And, and, but to counteract that we have people like high up people in the U S military writing and being like, keep pushing the envelope. The American public needs to know about this stuff. Nearly a million people have died directly. You know, 38 million people have been displaced from their homes.

3 (25m 58s):
$8 trillion have of us taxpayer money have, have been spent or obligated. And what have we gotten for all that are Americans safer now than we were on nine 11? When, when Al Qaeda flew the planes into the twin towers, are people around the rest of the world safer. Arguably, you could say that the U S post nine 11 wars have been a huge source of violence and death around the world. There are more quote, unquote terrorist groups now than there were on nine 11. There are more recruits to those groups. Arguably, this war on terror approach has been incredibly counterproductive.

4 (26m 46s):
This is a day when all Americans from every walk of life unite in our resolve for justice and peace. America has stood down any enemies before, and we will do so this time, none of us will ever forget this day. Yet we go forward to defend freedom and all that is good. And just in our world. Thank you. Good night. And God bless America.

1 (27m 22s):
Stephanie Savelle is an anthropologist of militarism security and civic engagement at brown university in Providence, Rhode Island. She's also the co-director of their costs of war project. You can find the work at watson.brown.edu/costs of war. One more time. That's watson.brown.edu/costs of war I'm. Sean Rama's firm it's today explained our episode today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain with help from Hottie Milwaukee.