ClickUp (1s):
Support for the show today comes from click up. What would you do if we all had an extra day every week, like let's name an eighth day, let's call it. Shonday. What is that? People lose a ton of time. Everyday hours even toggling between all of their work apps. Click up has a solution. They bring all your essential tools into one place. So you can prioritize tasks, collaborate on docs, chat with your team track goals. All in one place, click up says, they'll guarantee you save one day every week on average, that's amazing and it's completely customizable and free forever. Try click up today@clickup.com slash today explained

Salesforce (46s):
Support for the show. And it comes from Salesforce. Who believes that the experience you get from business matters as much as the product they sell. Salesforce is a cloud-based software company that brings customers and companies together. And with Salesforce, digital 360 users can bring sales, service, marketing, commerce it and analytics together in one place, go to S F D C dot C O slash inspiring digital to see how some of your favorite brands use Salesforce, digital 360 that's SFDC dot C O slash inspiring digital to get started today, Back in August, the world watched in horror as the United States pulled its last soldiers out of Afghanistan.

0 (1m 40s):
The Taliban had taken over the country and things were looking

2 (1m 44s):
That we all thought that as soon as the toilet Bon took over, it would be like an apocalypse. You know, like it would be Armageddon. Ali

0 (1m 56s):
Latifi is an online correspondent for Al Jazeera, English

2 (1m 60s):
Violence and blood and raping and pillaging on the streets. And you know, on August 15th when president fled and then when there were, when there was word that the toilet bond were coming, that's what people were most afraid of.

0 (2m 15s):
Not the crisis, Afghanistan, God, it got a different one altogether.

3 (2m 19s):
Today Afghanistan's economy is on the brink of collapse and what the UN calls a looming humanitarian crisis.

2 (2m 26s):
And there's so many offices have closed. So many businesses have closed. The ones that remain open are cutting their staff and reducing the pay, or just haven't been able to pay people for months. And don't know when they can start repaying that

0 (2m 42s):
Solids of desperation can be seeded every quarter of

2 (2m 44s):
Afghanistan. It's at a point where even if you have money in the bank, getting it out is so difficult.

4 (2m 51s):
Fashion things have gotten worse. Since the Taliban came, what little we had went to zero.

2 (2m 58s):
Everybody is one meal away from being hungry.

0 (3m 10s):
What happened to the economy and Afghanistan after the United States left and the Taliban took over

2 (3m 16s):
What all of this has shown is that the economy and I've honest on was completely artificial and completely dependent on foreign aid because what happened was the day the Taliban took over on August 15th, the U S cut off access to $9.5 billion of assets, loans, and aid to the Avalon government is now the Taliban are in power. And as soon as that money cut off, the banks put massive restrictions on withdrawals. You know, in the beginning it was only up to 200 a week. Then it became 400 a week. And then Western union and MoneyGram sometimes like if you are and I've gone abroad and you want to send money to your family or your friends and have a lot of sun, a lot of times these services will tell you there's no money in the banks.

2 (4m 6s):
And I've honest on, we can't take your money because they can't give it to them.

0 (4m 11s):
I think the last time we spoke to you, you were living on top of a bank in couple. What did you see living on top of a bank during this period?

2 (4m 19s):
I would leave to go to work at like eight, nine in the morning. Everybody be lined up outside the bank. By the time I would come home at like two, three in the afternoon, everyone would be gone because the money was gone. There was one period where it took me four days to get money out of Western union, where I had sent it to myself. It was a thousand dollars, 700 of it was to distribute to poor people like as charity and 300 was for myself. I lived on top of that bank. The guards knew me. It still took me four days to get it. So every morning I would line up and the guards in front of the bank would say, well, the money hasn't arrived yet from the central bank, it may arrive by nine o'clock.

2 (5m 9s):
It may arrive by 12 o'clock. It may arrive by one o'clock. We don't know. You just have to wait here and see when it arrives. And then once it arrived, you know, there'll be people from the day before and the day before that waiting. So by two, three in the afternoon, the money was gone. And then, so they would say, just come back tomorrow and I've learned sign. If you don't have cash, you're poor. If you, if you don't have cash, you can't buy food in a cash based society. When you don't have access to physical cash and you don't have a reliable income you're done for

0 (5m 50s):
Why is there such a shortage on

2 (5m 51s):
Cash because cash. And I've honestly thought it's not printed and I'm on a stone it's printed in, huh? It's an old thing. That's, that's been throughout the entire last 20 years. So I think it was their way of trying to limit corruption and also of saying, oh, we don't, we want to make sure that, that someone doesn't print a bunch of money and hand it to the Taliban. So every quarter, you know, there'll be several shipments of cash, both <em></em> and also foreign money, foreign currencies, those all stopped and now they can't print new cash. So that's become another issue as well.

0 (6m 32s):
And what kind of effect is this happening on the rest of the economy? Is it just collapsing?

2 (6m 37s):
Yeah. I mean, look at the inflation, right? Like, so the Avani has dropped in value prices are going up, you know, like the basic, like cooking ingredients, the prices are going up. So again, it's one, it's one of those situations where, I mean, it's maybe a bad way to put it, but it's not just like the quote unquote usual suspects that that will be starving fairly soon. It could be, you know, people in major cities because the money isn't there. And so like, you know, like for instance, like the us a month or so ago promised $144 million in humanitarian assistance, but $144 million really isn't that much money when you're talking about 30 million people.

0 (7m 21s):
Tell me how desperate this food shortage situation is getting in rural areas. And then also in urban areas at this point

2 (7m 30s):
In rural areas, it's extremely desperate because w this is another year where people are facing a drought. And so you're seeing malnourished children,

5 (7m 42s):
A nurse set a clinic in Herat, run by doctors without borders measures. Farzana his arm. If the band goes red, she's severely malnourished Farzana is nearly at the end of the scale, weighing six and a half pounds at eight

2 (7m 58s):
Months old. You know, you're seeing people that haven't eaten for days living in makeshift camps, you know, leaving their districts and coming to the next, the next closest major city. But then when they get there, they're there isn't services for them. There isn't, you know, literally food for them. There isn't money to bring that food in

6 (8m 21s):
Starvation will impact more than half of the country's population says a new UN report

7 (8m 27s):
Food crisis. Like this doesn't happen very often. You've been have, according to the analysis, we've done 9 million people who are on the doorstep of the most severe conditions,

2 (8m 37s):
Because in the past, when these sorts of things happened, the UN or the world food program, or even the government at the time, which would get, you know, some kind of foreign aid to do this would come in and give people, you know, some food aid, it started happen, but it's in smaller little segments. It's not enough to meet the demand. The need

8 (9m 1s):
93% of Afghans are food insecure, 93%. And the reality is, is that there's very little aid on the ground.

2 (9m 11s):
And now, you know, you're going to have winter coming up and winter and much of on a stone. It's very, very, very cold. The electricity starts to go out. You know, it's, it's harder to travel with in certain provinces, because if you live even like 20 minutes outside a major city, you could be cut off by the rain and the snow and there's flooding and there's avalanches. So it's a major, major issue. And I think what's really important is that this is the first time that that's why like the UN statistic is so grim. And so specific is that this is the first time where even people who would have been considered fairly, okay, you know, fairly stable economically are now possibly affected.

2 (10m 1s):
You know, even if they're not necessarily starving, starving buying food has become much more difficult for them.

0 (10m 9s):
And part of the problem here is that Afghanistan does not produce a lot of its own food. Right, right.

2 (10m 15s):
It doesn't produce a lot of its own food. It's imported the agriculture sector. You know, the former government used to make claims about developments in agriculture and exports. And, but none of that really added up to very much. And there wasn't ever a wide scale national agricultural project.

0 (10m 37s):
And now something like 20 million people are on the verge of starvation in Afghanistan. This winter is the Taliban equipped to save something like 20 million people who don't have money and don't have food.

2 (10m 53s):
No, because the tall one is not equipped to save the people because they don't have access to cash. They don't have very much experience in delivering aid. They have no experience in governance. They haven't shown that they can run a country and provide services for our country. And this is a situation that was created by the corruption of the former Republic and by the decisions of the outside world, since the Taliban took over, That's up to the total Bon and the rest of the world

DoorDash (11m 56s):
Support for the show today comes from door dash door Nash. For those of you not in the know is a delivery service that allows you to order from restaurants, grocery stores, and even convenience stores from the comfort of your home and with their dash pass membership, you can save an average of four to $5 Bob, on each order you place for delivery or pickup. If you're ready to save money on your door dash orders, here's what you want to do. Use the promo code Vox explained kind of smashed together. Vox explained all one word for 50% off your first order of $12 or more after you sign up for dash pass, that is 50% off your first dash pass order up to $20 value with the promo code Vox explained, say goodbye to delivery fees, get dash pass from door dash today. Using the promo code Vox explained when you've got zero delivery fees, you're free to get more because you can start your free month trial today.

Shopify (13m 9s):
Support for the children. It comes from Shopify Shopify as an all-in-one commerce platform that makes running and growing every sort of business easier than ever before. That is a bold statement from Shopify that are going to finally give small businesses the same tools that huge companies have relied on for decades. Like they're single easy to use platform, which allows business owners to boost sales sync up online and in-person sales and stay on top of analytics that matter most, you can go to shopify.com/explained for a free 14 day trial and full access to shop buys. Entire suite of features. You can see if they're all in one commerce platform makes running and growing every sort of business easier than ever before. Grow your business with Shopify today, go to shopify.com/explained right now that is shopify.com/explained

2 (14m 21s):
Okay. So Afghanistan's in bad shape, terrible shape. And it's coming just months after the United States left, which leads one to wonder is this the fault of the United States?

0 (14m 30s):
We asked Laurel Miller she's with the international crisis group.

9 (14m 35s):
The us is responsible in considerable part for the current humanitarian crisis and unfolding economic collapse in Afghanistan. Not because it's responsible for every problem in the world, but because us decisions over a long period of time contributed decisively to the situation that we're now seeing. First of all, it was decisions in the past to provide so much support to the last government of Afghanistan, that it was utterly dependent on foreign aid.

9 (15m 18s):
Then when that aid was cut off, it meant that the Afghan state rapidly began to collapse. So it's its responsibility, certainly in the sense of causation of the situation. And I think some would argue it's moral responsibility to given that the United States had said at the time that it was pulling out of Afghanistan, that it wasn't going to abandon the Afghan people.

10 (15m 47s):
We will continue to support the Afghan people. We will lead with our diplomacy or international influence on our humanitarian aid. We'll continue to push for regional diplomacy and engagement to prevent violence and instability,

9 (16m 1s):
The public spending under the last government of Afghanistan. The one that had been propped up by the U S and that collapsed on August 15th was about 75% supported by foreign donors. That meant that there were really no public services provided in Afghanistan health education that were not dependent to some degree on foreign funding. And on top of that, the central bank reserves of Afghanistan are actually managed by and held in the U S federal reserve. It was a sort of service that was provided to Afghanistan.

9 (16m 43s):
Something that the fed has done for other governments too. And those assets have now been frozen by the United States. This means that there's just simply a lack of cash in the Afghan economy. The UN is now saying that this is the most rapid economic collapse and unfolding humanitarian disaster that they've ever witnessed.

0 (17m 16s):
And you're saying you can trace this direct line from the dire shortage of actual hard cash, hard currency in Afghanistan to the United States and the federal reserve.

9 (17m 28s):
Yeah. I mean, I'm not blaming the federal reserve. They were just providing a service and a function. These are ultimately policy and political decisions that are being made in Washington. But yes, I mean, there are other factors too. There is the fact that Afghanistan has suffered repeated droughts in recent years. And so the agricultural sector, which is key in Afghanistan, it's still a largely agricultural country is greatly under stress. And that has contributed to hunger. There's the fact that the Taliban is not a competent government, so they share responsibility too.

9 (18m 8s):
But yes, you can draw a direct line from the decisions of the United States government, as well as other donors to the extreme distress that the Afghan population is now in.

0 (18m 22s):
So what can the United States and other countries who support Afghanistan do to save this country from the most precipitous humanitarian disaster the United nations has, has ever seen that doesn't maybe involve just handing over billions and billions of dollars. I imagine to the Taliban,

9 (18m 44s):
Yes, there are some things that can be done. Short term one is provide just straight out humanitarian relief. The U S is providing a lot of humanitarian aid, but more is needed. And the UN has appealed for even more. So it's crucial that the UN requests be fully met, but it's not enough emergency relief does not ensure that public services continue to function, does not prevent the collapse of a state for that. There needs to be a broader range of types of aid provided one fairly easy step is that the world bank has managed for quite some years now, a trust fund of money supplied by the us and other foreign donors that was used to support the operations of the public sector predominantly for paying salaries of civil servants.

9 (19m 48s):
There is a pot of $1.5 billion that still remains in this trust fund that could be dispersed if the U S and other donors, but principally the us agrees to loosen up the constraints on restarting. Some of that assistance. Also the sanctions that the us has in place on the Taliban, but now defacto on the entire state and economy of Afghanistan could be loosened up somewhat. I don't mean relieving sanctions on individual Taliban figures who are listed as terrorists by the United States.

9 (20m 39s):
I do mean though providing exemptions to these sanctions to allow ordinary economic activity to resume in Afghanistan.

0 (20m 56s):
So we've got humanitarian aid, we've got funding, the public sector through organizations like the world bank we've got loosening up some sanctions. It sounds like in all these cases, the U S is going to be involved with Afghanistan long after it pulled out troops.

9 (21m 16s):
We could choose not to be, I mean, the U S could choose to turn its back on Afghanistan as it did in the 1990s, after the Soviets withdrew from Afghanistan. I mean, remember that the United States had pumped a lot of money into fighting the war against the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan,

0 (21m 41s):
Propping up Osama bin Ladin,

9 (21m 42s):
Even propping up Osama and dealing with some of the characters who are now in government in Afghanistan and who were fighting the United States over the last 20 years after the Soviet withdrawal and the victory of the Mujahideen forces, the United States decided it was done with Afghanistan until later it wasn't done with Afghanistan and came back in force. So, you know, let it fail is an option. Technically speaking, I don't think it's an option that serves us interests to have a failed state in Afghanistan and to abandon the region.

9 (22m 25s):
But if you're looking at the full range of policy options that the us has, you know, let it fail. We've got other priorities. Elsewhere is an option. I think that would be very short-sighted. And I think history shows that that would be very shortsighted.

0 (22m 45s):
I'm glad you brought up the history because it's important to remember here that this was a country that was poor before the United States showed up. It was poor while the United States was there and it's still poor. Now the United States has left

9 (22m 59s):
That's right. I mean, Afghanistan, when the United States invaded in 2001 was one of the poorest countries in the world, no real government institutions to speak of. It's a country that has for, for, you know, hundreds of years been dependent on external resources in one way or another. And during the last 20 years, there were a number of advances that were made as a direct result of us and other international support. There were real advances that were achieved even though at the end of 20 years, it was still one of the poorer countries in the world.

9 (23m 46s):
And as we've seen now, because of this rapid collapse of a very fragile state, but there were advances that were made that, you know, these are, these are things that take multi-generations to really move forward, no matter how much money you pour into a country over the course of 20 years, you're not going to move it from, from a to Z in terms of economic development.

0 (24m 12s):
I guess the question I, I wonder about is, is, is Afghanistan ever not going to be in a precarious position?

9 (24m 19s):
I mean, look, I, you know, no one is advocating and I'm not advocating turning back on the level of aid that was provided to the last government of Afghanistan. And no one is advocating reinforcing the country's aid dependence. But what we saw happen after the Taliban takeover in mid August was an extremely abrupt and enormous shock to the Afghan economy. And no government can and no state, no population can weather that kind of abrupt economic shock without public services and public welfare just tipping over a cliff.

9 (25m 5s):
And so what I am advocating is more of a glide path. Afghanistan is going to be under the Taliban a more impoverished country than it was in recent years, most likely, and the government and the population will need to adapt, but that's different than just leaving them to try to weather. This really enormous shock that has been suffered.

0 (25m 44s):
Laurel Miller is the director of the Asia program at the international crisis group. Before that you heard from Ali Latifi online correspondent for Al Jazeera English. Our show today was produced by will read fact checked by Laura Bullard, edited by Matthew Collette and engineered by a theme Shapiro. I'm Sean Rama's from it's today.

0 (26m 7s):
Explained

Adyen (26m 43s):
Support For this episode comes from ad yet Andy, and is the payments platform may for today, tomorrow. And whatever comes next with Andy and single solution, it's simple to accept all kinds of payments in app online in store touch-free and beyond, and it seamlessly adapts with your business. So keep your customers happy and your business growing with ad yet business, not boundaries, visit <em></em> dot com to learn more. That's a D Y E n.com.

The Debate (27m 14s):
If you feel forced to choose between two toxic sites, when you listen to the news, you're not alone. That's where the last debate steps in. What's up guys, I'm Corey Bradford and I'm Robby Goodman. We launched the last debate podcast and YouTube show for the politically eclectic who've lost trust in our polarizing partisan world will bring you The overlooked news ideas and trends from around the country. And so political satire and skits because The helmet, the wasta bay and YouTube, or wherever you get your podcasts.