2 (2s):
The calls for a ceasefire are outrageous.

1 (6s):
It was just a few weeks ago that Speaker Mike Johnson denounced a ceasefire while flanked by top Democrats in Congress.

2 (14s):
There are a few issues in Washington that could so easily bring together leaders of both parties in both chambers. What's their

1 (21s):
Surprise? This particular bipartisan gathering felt Ill-advised to many on the left, but Sefo reporter David Weigel says it should not have come as a surprise.

3 (29s):
No, that was the most normal in terms of the last 50 years of American politics. I could imagine it was actually a throwback to when there wasn't really daylight between the parties on Israel. It had the appearance of unity. At a moment when there is less unanimity around support for Israel politically than anytime I can remember covering

1 (50s):
The war is 50 days old this week and today explained has taken stock of how the politics around Israel and Palestine have shifted and the United States,

4 (60s):
And here's your prescription.

5 (1m 2s):
I know just the pharmacy to get this filled.

PhRMA (1m 4s):
Who are you? A pharmacy benefit manager, A middleman your insurer uses to decide which medicines you can get, what you pay, and sometimes even which pharmacy you should go to. Why can't I go to a pharmacy in my neighborhood Because I make more money When you go to a pharmacy I own, No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

New York Magazine (1m 30s):
Hey, you've got all kinds of people yelling at you about sales Black Friday and Cyber Week these days. So I'll keep this short. Get the lowest prices of the season on an annual subscription to New York Magazine. Now through November 30th. Prices start at $8 for a monthly digital subscription and top out at $45 for a year of print and digital access. Give yourself the gift of Vulture, the Cut, and Intelligencer and all your other favorite New York magazine brands for over 75% off until the end of the month. Go to ny mag.com/holiday by November 30th and you'll get the best deal of the year

1 (2m 8s):
For a minute. Now, today explained, we wanted to talk about how this war between Israel and Hamas has been dividing the American left. David Weigel has been reporting on just that for Semafor, where he is a national political reporter. We started at the top with Joe Biden. I asked him if the president's response differs from president's past.

3 (2m 27s):
I mean, it really doesn't

9 (2m 33s):
Let there be no doubt the United States has Israel's back

3 (2m 37s):
And this is where a lot of the president's problems with younger Democrats and critics of Israel come in. Israel's under attack and he responds not that much differently than Richard Dixon did during the Yom Kippur war, which is we support Israel. There are ally,

10 (2m 52s):
As I told congressional leaders during the 1973 Yo Kippur war. No American president will let Israel go down the two Democrat or Republican. It's not an

3 (3m 1s):
Issue. So October 7th, there's a burst of outrage at Hamas war for the massacres they carry out that weekend. There's a rally in New York and times square,

11 (3m 10s):
Hundreds of demonstrators standing in solidarity with Palestine taking over the crossroads of the world to organizers of this rally. The attack on Israel was justified resistance.

1 (3m 22s):
We're

12 (3m 22s):
Here to say that occupied people have a right to resist their occupation.

3 (3m 27s):
Democratic Socialist of America's New York chapter endorses the rally but doesn't organize it inside the Democratic Party. There's a sort of antibody response where any Democrat who associates themselves with those protests is pilled, is, is accused of supporting antisemitism, is associated with the craziest view out there of Israel. You saw the governor of New York, you saw leading Democrats people who are gonna be probably at the height of the party for quite a while condemning this and saying that this is antisemitism.

13 (3m 57s):
Governor Hoel yesterday called the planned pro-Palestinian rally, morally repugnant,

3 (4m 1s):
Younger Democrats see Israel as an apartheid state because they've seen a attempted, a peace process from Barack Obama be undermined by a pro-Trump Israeli government. What you see as the war continues is some of those pre-war dynamics reasserting themselves and by middle of November, most Democrats say, yeah, don don't want my country to be giving unlimited support to Israel no matter what they do.

1 (4m 27s):
Tell me about where exactly the divisions are. So who specifically is sort of breaking away from Joe Biden and maybe even other moderate Democrats?

3 (4m 37s):
The most obvious people doing this in Congress are members of the squad, and this is the four female Democrats who get elected in 2018. A few more Democrats who are elected in 2020 and 2022, but a very small beachhead of left-wing democratic politicians inside the house, not really inside the Senate. You actually see a division in the first few days of the war between what those Democrats are demanding and they're calling pretty early for a full ceasefire, not continuing conflict until Israel wipes out Hamas war, which they say is their goal, but a ceasefire contradictory to the Netanyahu policy.

14 (5m 15s):
Ceasefire means release the hostages. Yes, all the hostages ceasefire means stop the bombardment now. Yes, yes.

3 (5m 27s):
You see other Democrats like Bernie Sanders who's really influential, the John the Baptist of the squad really coming before them and helping them get elected. He doesn't even do that. But you see within days after that, Sanders and a few other Democrats, some of whom surprise people like Dick Durban saying, all right, no, don don't think we should as Democrats as a country be supporting whatever this government does.

15 (5m 51s):
Israel has a right to defend itself, but what Israel does not, in my view have a right to do, is to kill thousands and thousands of innocent men, women and children who had nothing to do with that attack

3 (6m 7s):
As they see footage coming in from Gaza as they see reports of children in hospitals being starved, civilian casualties. There are incidents like for example, like reporting that a hospital was blown up by Israeli missiles that is then contested. Rashida Tle, a Detroit, Democrat Detroit, and Dearborn really Democrat advances that and is censured by the house for it.

2 (6m 30s):
The resolution is adopted.

3 (6m 36s):
She sticks to her gun, she gets censured and she, she gains not to everything she said, but on the quest for a ceasefire, they're adding people day by day. I mean, you have a few dozen house Democrats who've called for a ceasefire that is a minority, but I think the significance here is one that's a lot of Democrats criticizing Israel in wartime. That is rare. The second part is according to polling, they're with the base. I mean, I and I, I covered some protests where people were pretty explicit about this. They would cite polling. There was one protest, the DNC, where there are people shining lights on the building that just show the poll numbers. Hmm. When you ask people if they want a ceasefire without Israel's conditions, like 80% of Democrats say yes.

3 (7m 22s):
I mean Ipsos Reuters polls the most recent that backs that up. Representative,

16 (7m 25s):
Representative, you support a cease. Well, you supported these fires. I'm an American Jew and I'm asking who do support a cease fire

3 (7m 33s):
For a lot of these Democrats? It's clear that their constituents in the Democratic base are not as interested in un in reflexive Israel support as they are, but it is important to discredit their opponents and say, these people are crazy. These people are anti-Semitic. These people are dangerous. This is where the division, I think gets a lot nastier while this is happening with fewer protests. They're getting a lot of blow back from Arab Americans who think that what Biden is doing, and they knew he was pro-ISIS Israel when he won the Arab American vote in 2020. What he's doing is offensive to them is murderous. They

18 (8m 10s):
Said that we had to save America from Donald Trump and now we feel that we have to save Palestine from Joe Biden.

3 (8m 16s):
You see the term genocide, Joe being thrown around to attack Biden genocide,

17 (8m 21s):
Joe, and not you go genocide Joe. It's not to

3 (8m 26s):
Go. That's what you're seeing eating away at democratic support is both. Some stuff from far left activists, many of them are Jewish themselves, and then some from Arab American Democrats who say, I can't possibly support a president. Not that they'll support Trump. I can't possibly go out and support a president who's, if he's reelected, is this gonna do whatever, or Netanyahu says,

1 (8m 45s):
And these few dozen Democrats who are supportive of a ceasefire who do wanna see a real shift in this war and are pushing for it in Congress, are they facing repercussions from the moderates or the staunchly pro-Israel factions,

3 (9m 1s):
The large groups I've been talking about, apac, which is The Israel lobby in America, democratic majority for Israel, which is founded more recently and works in primaries to defeat left wing Democrats, especially through Israel critics. Both of those groups are very clear early on that they are going to continue working to beat Democrats who are critics of Israel, and within a few, really within days, but it becomes a little more clear at the end of October, there is an effort to find a candidate who can beat to Lieb. There's an effort to s support one candidate who can beat Ilhan Omar. There's an effort to beat Jamal Bowman in New York and Cory Bush in Missouri. So three or four of the most prominent Israel critics in the Congress, how do we beat them?

3 (9m 43s):
And they're not hiding this. It's not like a trap. They're gonna spring later. They're saying pretty clearly, we want candidates to run against these people. In a couple cases they have them.

1 (9m 50s):
How much of this is a generational divide within the party? Is it just young versus old, or is there something more going on here?

3 (9m 56s):
Well, young and old explains much of it for basic reasons. If, you are born after 1973, and that's most Americans. You don't know Israel as a tiny democracy in the Middle East that needs American protection. You know, it is a powerful country with wealth comparable to a western European country with a strong military that never loses. Maybe you can get ambushed and surprised, but it doesn't lose wars. So you ask, okay, why is my government supporting this? And there's been the search for reasons among a lot of pro-ISIS, Israel, Democrats, what could have done this to our younger voters? How did our young voters grow up and become Israel critics? There's a lot of blame put on college. Oh, okay. College is very liberal and college is progressive.

3 (10m 39s):
Few people are taught to be anti-colonial. That's some of it. I think in the intelligentsia of the left, everything that they say about this is true. That yes, there are people who have transposed their anti-colonial, anti settler thinking and said, I'm against the Zionist state for this reason, but this is across the education gap post direct. There is a lot of skepticism. Why is America spending all this money not just on foreign aid, but foreign aid in the Middle East in particular? Where is this going? What is the point of of doing all this and what is the point in doing it when we're not as vulnerable as we were in the 1970s to OPEC and to oil shocks? For a lot of Americans, the answer is, yeah, don don't know.

3 (11m 20s):
I I don't care. Like why? Why are, why is either party so reflexively supportive of this? That's kinda the question asked by I'd say Democrats across educational lines under 40. Also just younger voters generally who are very, very skeptical of this.

1 (11m 33s):
And then the democratic part, we have young, we have old, and then we have really old, namely Joe Biden, who himself is older than Israel. Where exactly is he now considering the state of affairs in his party?

3 (11m 47s):
He doesn't comment a lot from day to day on critics inside the party. He is not been baited into criticizing the left the way that APAC is what Biden wants. And he says that when he's interrupted by a Jewish voice refuse activist at a fundraiser is he wants a humanitarian pause, which is, we've paused the conflict. We release hostages when the hostages are released, intentions decline. Maybe we can deescalate the conflict. At no point does he say whatever it Netanyahu wants. There is American pressure on ending hostilities as soon as possible, but it's in the context of support for Israel and sympathy for Israel and sympathy for the people killed on October 7th by Hamas.

3 (12m 27s):
It sounds like a very subtle difference. I think in some ways it is, but to activists and younger Democrats, it's so clear to them morally that anything but demanding an immediate ceasefire and liberation for Palestinians is effectively genocide. That this is unacceptable. This is what he struggled to navigate. He just doesn't have a party base that agrees we should take pains to protect Israel as we try to end the war. Their position is why. Why do they get this treatment? Why are we treating 'em any differently than another country that has some sort of internal population that doesn't have full democratic rights? Or in the case of Gaza, the ability to leave the Gaza strip freely?

3 (13m 10s):
Why are we doing that? And that's not something Biden can answer. That's something that explains why he starts angering so much of the base.

1 (13m 31s):
We will talk with David about the American right when we're back. On today, explained

Noom (13m 42s):
Support for today, explained comes from Noom. There is a whole big weight loss industry. It can be hard to figure out what works for you. Noom wants to tell you a bit about noom. Noom uses science and personalization to try to help you manage your weight over the long term. Noom says that their psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors, and you can decide how Noom fits into your life and not the other way around. Noom offered a sample of 4,272 numer and 98% of them said Noom helped them change their habits and behaviors for good. Sarah Frank is my colleague here at Vox who works on the business side of things. She had a chance to try out Noom and tell us how it went. There Were days where I was overeating based on my goal and days where I was undereating and Noom had a very clever way of also matching my mood to those days. So I could actually see after about a week that I tend to eat less on days that I'm a little anxious or stressed, and days that I'm more relaxed, I'm eating more, and I know some people's habits are the opposite of that. You can sign up for a trial today@noom.com. That's NOO m.com to sign up for a trial today.

Etsy (14m 54s):
Support for today, explain comes from Etsy. With the holiday season approaching, you might be on the lookout for presence. Etsy is a great place to help you find affordable handcrafted gifts made by independent sellers. If. you have someone on your list who's a home chef. Etsy could help you find the perfect addition to your kitchen, maybe a custom cutting board. If, you have someone on your list who's obsessed with that. Nicole Kidman, a MC ad that previews the movies. You know, somehow heartbreak feels good in a place like this and you're like, I want that on a hat. Etsy can hook you up. Was that personal? Maybe. If you're new to Etsy, you can use the code holiday 10 for 10% off your first purchase. That's code holiday 10 maximum discount value of $50 expires December 31st, 2023 C terms at etsy.com/terms for handcrafted and affordable gifts. For everyone on your list, Etsy has it. Shop etsy.com

Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) (15m 58s):
And here's your prescription. I know just the pharmacy to get this filled. Who are you? A pharmacy benefit manager, a middleman your insurer uses to decide which medicines you can get, what you pay, and sometimes even which pharmacy you should go to. Why can't I go to a pharmacy in my neighborhood Because I make more money when you go to a pharmacy I own. No One should stand between you and your medicine. Visit pma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma

1 (16m 36s):
Today. Explained back with David Weigel from EM four. We've talked about this divide, this sort of schism on the left and all the factions involved and how complicated that mess is. I imagine this looks a lot less messy on the right.

3 (16m 49s):
Yes, that's a good way to put it on the right. So it's always easier to be outta power. In some ways. You can say as Senator Tom Cotton from Arkansas said, this wouldn't have happened if Trump was president. It wasn't

21 (16m 60s):
On President Trump's watch that Iran unleashed its proxy, Hamas war to slaughter Jews in Israel.

3 (17m 6s):
The easiest, clearest position they can take is that Joe Biden's weak. If a war breaks out, that is because he's weak. That is because of the decisions he made that that invited this weakness. I think it is very hard to trace Biden's decisions on Israel to to that, but you know, you've got a script, you're gonna stick to it. The differences between the candidates for president I think are significant in in, in showing how Republicans promise to be more reflexively pro-Israel. If elected as Trump was, I mean Trump recognized the Golden Heights. In

22 (17m 34s):
A moment I will sign a presidential proclamation recognizing Israel's sovereign right over the Golan Heights.

3 (17m 42s):
Trump moves the US Embassy in from Tel Aviv for Jerusalem.

22 (17m 46s):
For I have determined that it is time to officially recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. I am also directing the State Department to begin preparation to move the American Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.

3 (18m 7s):
Like Trump basically does everything Israel wants and Trump says out loud as he likes to do.

22 (18m 14s):
I can't imagine how anybody who's Jewish or anybody who loves Israel and frankly the evangelicals love, just love Israel. I can't imagine anybody voting Democrats.

3 (18m 24s):
So that's Trump's position that has not changed. The people who are running against him, Ron DeSantis, Nikki Haley being like the most relevant at this point. They want to go further. They will fully support Israel, but they want to be clear that Palestinians should never get foreign aid.

23 (18m 38s):
We need to make sure no taxpayer dollars go to any Palestinian entities or any UN entities that support Hamas.

3 (18m 46s):
You also have them criticize Trump from the right by saying he's too critical of Benjamin Netanyahu.

24 (18m 50s):
He was not prepared and Israel was not prepared and under Trump, they wouldn't have had to be prepared. Look at what we did for them.

13 (18m 58s):
One of Trump's 2024 rivals, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis firing back with his toughest criticism yet of the front runner. Now

25 (19m 5s):
Is not the time to be attacking our ally.

3 (19m 8s):
Trump has a habit of kind of bloodlessly assessing another player in the world and saying whether they're smart or not. As Trump says, the Hezbollah is smart. And

22 (19m 16s):
Then two nights ago I read all of Biden's security people. Can you imagine National defense people? And they said, gee, I hope Hezbollah doesn't attack from the north because that's the most vulnerable spot. I said, wait a minute. You know, Hezbollah's very smart. They're all very smart.

23 (19m 34s):
You don't go and compliment any of them because what that does is that makes America look weak.

3 (19m 40s):
I don't think the Republican base cares not just my my view. I mean I've seen poll since then. Republican voters don't see Trump's comments as insulting to Israel. It is a very pro-Israel party. It is a very anti Palestinian party in the conservative commentary infrastructure, you know, one of the most influential figures is Ben Shapiro who talked about the Palestinians animals. The, the phrase Palestinians has trafficked on the right for a long time on the right. It just, there's no danger in saying, I support Israel. I don't care what happens to Palestinians. I mean, and you see that not to get too far from the presidential field, you see that in Florida. Florida's a, you know, state with a Jewish population that votes overwhelmingly dely Democratic, a Christian evangelical population that's very pro-Israel.

3 (20m 24s):
And you see, you know, on the floor of the Florida legislature, a Democrat rhetorically asking, we

26 (20m 30s):
Are at 10,000 dead Palestinians. How many will be enough?

3 (20m 35s):
And a Republican rhetoric, I guess rhetorically answering.

22 (20m 38s):
Wow.

26 (20m 41s):
One of my colleagues said all of them.

3 (20m 43s):
Hmm. That's the space that Republicans are operating in. And like I said, there's a little bit of skepticism of this in the new right in the nationalist right, there's a little bit of the why are we supporting them attitude. There's a little bit of, you know, frankly anti-Semitic opposition to Israel's existence, not in the, the world of primary voters. That's not very relevant in among the people who will be nominating the party's nominee.

1 (21m 7s):
Okay, so we're talking about, you know, the presidential candidates. We're talking about the base. What about, you know, somewhere in between those two is Republicans in in Congress. How has this played out on the hill?

3 (21m 19s):
Let's, let's establish as much we've been talking about in America. Let's establish that the most important thing affecting as far Israel Israel's concerned right now is probably not whether members of Congress say nice things about it, but most of the legislation, I should say resolutions that have passed over the last month or, or introduced on this, have been just condemning the attacks and then attacking Democrats who won't condemn the attacks, passing funding with a poison pill, Democrat support, and then attacking Democrats for not supporting it. And the National Republican Congressional Committee after the house passes Israel funding that would cut the IRS to pay for it immediately is out attacking Democrats is, you know, anti-ISIS Israel, anti-Semites. If they don't support it, there is more interest, just if I could speak cynically in using this as an issue to divide Democrats than in unifying the country around one response.

3 (22m 8s):
So not a lot has happened in Congress, apart from political kayfabe,

1 (22m 12s):
Although we know that Republicans in Congress are, are very skeptical of Ukraine aid. How has that played out with Israeli? Is it a totally different story?

3 (22m 22s):
Yeah, so again, the, the Biden position here is America needs to support Israel and its war against Hamas war. It needs to support Ukraine and its war against, against Russia. For a lot of Republicans, it's very clear if, if there is a zero sum amount of of aid we should be giving out, including a zero sum amount of military ordinance, bullets, et cetera. It should be going to defend Israel not to, not to defend Ukraine. That's not, again, unanimous in the party, but that's the evolving Republican position is that America's first priority is its own self-defense defending its own border. Its second priority is defending Israel there.

3 (23m 3s):
That's the end of the list. There's not really a a, a priority in defending Ukraine right now.

1 (23m 7s):
Why are Republicans so unified on this issue? What's behind that?

3 (23m 12s):
A lot. So a lot of it is a sense that it, Israelis are the good guys. If I can be like direct about it, it it is now there, there are Jews in the Republican party. Not that many. Most support for Israel is driven by believing Christians, pro Zionist Christians who believe that Israel is, it won its territory. It is a good steward of the Middle East. It is a democracy no matter how Palestinians within the country are treated and it's just not a hard call for them.

27 (23m 47s):
Please join me in praying for the safety and security of the people of Israel. We will lift up their warriors and leaders in prayer, wrap our hearts around the bereaved and ensure that our leaders in Washington know that there is no room for equivocation or daylight between America and Israel.

1 (24m 8s):
You mentioned that the sort of the schism on the left has cast some shadow over Joe Biden's presidential reelection bid. Do you think that what we've seen in the past 50 days and what might be coming in the next 50 could have lasting implications for our election, for our politics at home, which the presidential election, I guess is now finally less than a year away. Will people still remember all of the protests in the streets and the various fights in Congress and the various fights over funding whatever might be?

3 (24m 42s):
Well, there's been a conversation on the left that I find a little tedious about, Hey, if you're saying that you're going to boycott voting for genocide, Joe, you're effectively voting for Trump. The other side of this we'll point out the election is 11 months away a year. This is the time to say this policy needs to change or we won't vote for you. And so it's unclear how much of that's going to stick. I think overall though, and If, you talk to peace activists, Jewish for peace, if not now, et cetera. Their theory of what might happen here, I think has been borne out in the first month of the conflict.

3 (25m 23s):
I talked to them early in October around this period where they're being condemned for having the audacity have rallies where people said crazy things. Their thought was, we're going to get a lot of blow back right now. And they were. But as this war continues, people are going to look at the images from Israel and recalculate. I think they were correct that that happened. Each time there is a, there is a conflict, this, they're all different. There are different, different level of military strength, different leaders, et cetera. Each time this happens, I feel like there is a di, you see a decline in reflects the support for Israel. You can see less patience for the Israeli position every time a conflict breaks out.

3 (26m 4s):
And especially as this conflict lasted over over October, November. You saw that fade and in ways that I think are, it will take a couple years to play out.

1 (26m 27s):
That's David Weigel. Read him at Semafor dot com. Our show today was produced by Abby Shai Artsy and Isabel Angell. They had help from Matthew Collette, Laura Bullard Si Petros and Patrick Boyd. I'm Sean Ramas firm. This is today explained.