1 (2s):
The police department in Moscow, Idaho publishes a daily log of calls that come in on November 11th, a dui, a disabled vehicle, an unconscious person outside of a frat house, a drug search among others. Moscow is a college town. November 12th is a lot of the same. Loud music officer responded, another dui, another drug search, a straight puppy that was too skittish for anyone to grab ahold of. Then on November 13th, there's a report in the log that very rarely appears in Moscow. In fact, it hadn't appeared for the previous seven years. Homicide. In the three weeks since police in Moscow have foundered the homicides, four of them are unsolved.

1 (44s):
They do not have a suspect. Residents are scared and rumors, persistent, distracting rumors ginned up by internet. Sleuths have introduced chaos into the investigation. It's coming up on today, explained it's today explained. I'm Noel King, Sally Crut Sig is a reporter with the Idaho Statesman. She's been covering the murders in Moscow from her home base in Boise. Sally, what happened in Moscow last month?

2 (1m 21s):
So what we know happened is on Saturday November 12th, four students who attended the University of Idaho were out on the town. Two of them were at a bar and two of them were at a fraternity party. By 1:56 AM they were all back home. The three women lived together in a house just off campus with two other roommates, and one of the victims was a boyfriend who was staying the night. Four of the people in that house that night were killed.

1 (1m 55s):
Tell me about these, these four people. Tell me about the victims.

2 (1m 58s):
So two of them were Madison. She went by Maddie and Kay Kaylee was a senior. She was just about to graduate in December. She had plans to move to Austin. She was known for being outspoken and adventurous. She loved to play pranks. Then you had Maddie. Maddie was described as sweet, funny. Multiple people I spoke to brought up her deep love of the color pink. These

3 (2m 22s):
Girls were absolutely beautiful. They had been friends since sixth grade and every day they did homework together. They came to our house together, they shared everything and in the end, they died together.

2 (2m 35s):
Zana, she was a junior. She was really passionate about her major in marketing. She loved to attend live music shows. She was known for being driven and always positive. And then Ethan, her boyfriend was a freshman.

4 (2m 49s):
Well, Ethan tolerated school. For those of you guys who knew him really well, he tolerated school. He loved the social life.

2 (2m 56s):
He was also a triplet and was really close to his brother and sister, who actually also attended school with him.

5 (3m 3s):
We were having, trying to have a conversation really quickly about our favorite memory. We can't come up with one. I mean, he literally lit up every room.

1 (3m 15s):
These were kids, it sounds like, who were fairly carefree without a lot of problems,

2 (3m 20s):
Right? Yeah. You know, if you look through their social media, you just see so many silly dance videos, photos surrounded by friends attending Greek parties of you guys.

6 (3m 32s):
Guys I met Charlie De Emilio,

2 (3m 35s):
Chad. These were popular kids. You know, people describe them using phrases like outgoing and life of the party.

7 (3m 42s):
In terms of what you understood about your sister's life, was there any threat that she had ever had? Was there anybody who was coming after her on social media? Did she have a past a problem with a boyfriend or a friend? Anything to inform why somebody would do something so violent to her, her friend, her other roommate, and her boyfriend?

8 (4m 2s):
Absolutely. There's nothing. There's no boy problem. There's no threat. There's no high risk lifestyle that could have indicated this. It has taken all of us completely by shock, and we have absolutely no ideas. None. Tell

1 (4m 17s):
Me what we know for sure about this crime.

2 (4m 22s):
So what we know is that the four students were outta the house. Ethan and Zana were attending a fraternity party on campus. Maddie and Kaylee were spending time at a downtown bar before grabbing some pasta at a nearby food truck and then getting a ride home by one fifty six. They were all home phone records show that at two fifty two they were still alive. And we know this because Maddie and Kaylee at around two 30 started calling Kaylee's recent ex-boyfriend. They called him 10 times and the last call came in at two fifty two.

2 (5m 2s):
You know, and I know the phone calls sound kind of weird, but actually Kaylee's sister says this was a really normal thing to ca for Kaylee to do. She was known for just late at night. She'd call you over and over and over until you finally picked up. And then she'd just make you chat with her. You know, she'd ask you, what should I have for dinner tomorrow? Hmm. So at 2 52 they appear to still be alive. And between 3:00 AM and 6:00 AM someone went into their bedrooms and killed them. Two bodies were found on the second floor. Two bodies were found on the third floor.

2 (5m 42s):
Maddie and Kaylee lived on the third floor. And you know, one really sad detail that I think hit home for a lot of people is that Maddie and Kaylee, these two best friends in childhood were found killed in the same bed, in the same bedroom together. You know, Kaylee's dad talked about how they did everything in life together. And then in the end they died together.

3 (6m 7s):
It comforts us. It lets us know that they were with their, their best friends in the whole world.

1 (6m 16s):
Sally, did someone break into the house?

2 (6m 18s):
There were no signs of forced entry. So the house had a code that you would punch in to get into it. And this was one of those houses that had been passed on from student to student. It was a party house. And so we're not sure if maybe someone knew the code, but what we do know is there were no signs of forced entry. Okay? Two bodies were found on the third floor, two bodies on the second floor, and then on the bottom floor, which is more of a walkout basement. The two additional surviving roommates were sleeping. They apparently slept in late and you know, didn't hear anything to cause them at least enough alarm to call the police.

2 (6m 60s):
They wake up and something caused them to be concerned about their roommates. We know that they tried to call Kaylee in the morning, but something caused them to be concerned about their roommates. So they summon additional friends to the house and as a group, the roommates and the friends, they called the police. They were very distraught. They were passing the phone back and forth and they told the police, we think someone is unconscious and isn't waking up. Police show up. They enter the second and third floor and they find the four dead students.

1 (7m 39s):
Where do the police stand today? Is there a suspect? Is there a motive?

2 (7m 45s):
It's three weeks in and there is still no suspect. We don't know what the motive is, but police have said that they seem to have reason to think the community has nothing to worry about

10 (7m 58s):
Based on details at the scene. We believe this was an isolated targeted attack on our victims,

2 (8m 4s):
But it's kind of confusing because they, they'd say it's a targeted isolated attack, but they haven't given us any reason why they believe this. And they also are saying they have no suspect.

10 (8m 14s):
We do not have a suspect at this time, and that individual is still out

2 (8m 19s):
There. So it's, it's confusing about how that can both be true. It's a, they know it's a targeted killing. They don't have a suspect. So the community is understandably very on edge. They're not sure what to believe. You know, how can we believe this isn't gonna happen again? How can we believe that I am not at risk of the same thing? If we have no idea why you think this three

1 (8m 39s):
Weeks in no suspect, what's happening there right now? What's it like there?

2 (8m 45s):
People are really scared in the community right now and they're also getting more and more frustrated with police. As you know, they continue to refuse to release information. People

11 (8m 58s):
Are still talking about it. It's kind of something that's on our minds every day. Everyone is just like speculating obviously, because the police haven't given us a ton of information and like that's how the rumors start.

2 (9m 10s):
I think the students are some of the most afraid. Thanksgiving break was just about to come out before these murders and right after they happened it seemed just, there was an exodus of students. They all decided to go home early. You know, my colleague the next day was knocking on doors in the neighborhood and this is a neighborhood that's, you know, all these homes are rented out by students and it was difficult for her to find anyone because so many of them were too scared to stay on campus. The rest of the community is also, you know, just as scared. I talked to people who said they'd started carrying a gun, someone who said, I don't have a gun.

2 (9m 50s):
So I started carrying a knife in case I have to fend off someone else with a knife. The community has just been so on edge and just the lack of information from police has contributed to that a lot because they don't know where to direct their fears. Moscow is a small town. It's a, has a population of about 25,000 people in a very rural area and it hasn't had a murder in seven years. I think the Moscow police don't have a lot of experience with how to handle this kind of murder.

2 (10m 31s):
This, you know, brutal killing with no obvious immediate suspect. And even more so, the national media attention, the, you know, national internet attention that has been on this case. They just haven't known how to handle it.

12 (11m 5s):
Okay, so open the champagne. So when you're in sommelier school, they teach you that the pop shouldn't be no louder than a nun's fart. A

13 (11m 17s):
Pop that's no louder than a nuns Bart. That's the sound. That means there's gonna be a celebration

14 (11m 22s):
That's right around the world. December is often party time and we here at Gastropod are celebrating in style.

13 (11m 28s):
We've got a two part special mini-series for you this month with the stories behind two of these special occasion treats, caviar and of course champagne. Gastropod

14 (11m 38s):
Is the podcast that looks at food through the lens of science and history. So we are going to get to the bottom of Waba eggs from a massive dinosaur looking freshwater fish are one of the most expensive foods in the world

13 (11m 49s):
And Y champagne is in a different league to other fizzy wines like kava and Prosecco.

14 (11m 54s):
We also discover why champagne's bubbles were originally considered a flaw and how to give a sturgeon an ultrasound.

13 (12m 0s):
Come join the party, find gastropod and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (12m 15s):
It's today explained. We're back with Sally Crut of the Idaho statesman and Sally the police are trying to solve these murders. The FBI is involved, the county sheriff, the state police. So law enforcement is there in a big way, but it's not just the police is

2 (12m 30s):
It? No, we have seen this whole field of internet sleuths pop up around this case.

15 (12m 41s):
Stabbing is personal, it's very messy. Okay? So if four people were murdered and it was one suspect who did this, their clothes had to have blood all over it.

2 (12m 53s):
There are Facebook groups with thousands and thousands of people in them who are, you know, posting all the time.

16 (12m 59s):
Hey guys, so remember the other day I showed you guys the ladder that was beside the house where the four students were murdered? Well, I actually may have the reason why the ladder is there. So one of my friends sent me a couple pictures last

2 (13m 14s):
Night. There are Reddit threads about this. There are Instagram pages dedicated to who they think did it.

17 (13m 22s):
What the police aren't telling us is that they probably know who the murder is and they've probably known since day one or two of the investigation.

2 (13m 29s):
It's just been amazing how these armchair detectives, these internet sleuths have flocked this case to try to solve it themselves and they speak that way. I recently saw someone saying, why won't the police tell us this information? Don't they know we're trying to solve it?

15 (13m 46s):
Their shoes play a big role in this. Okay, now here's

2 (13m 49s):
The, here's it reminds me a lot of the Gabby potato case. And I think one reason is because both these cases, there wasn't an immediate answer, but there were all these little clues you could put together. You could comb through the victim's social media pages, you could read their comments and you know, interpret them. And people like to be detectives. They like to feel like, if I just find all the right clues, if I start putting it together, I can solve this. And I think you had that with both the Gabby Petite case and this Idaho case because there's no immediate answer. People you know, put on their detective hats and want to try to solve it themselves.

18 (14m 28s):
I came across the neighbor who gave an interview and obviously the murder was done with like a hunting knife. And it's almost like when you hear him talk in this video, it's like almost like when you're a hunter and you're experiencing that adrenaline high in these videos, he's like trying not to smile because it's like he got away with it. He got that trophy, he got that kill

2 (14m 46s):
Like Gabby Petto. These victims were young, they were white, they were conventionally attractive. And I think it's allowed people to latch onto them as as a victim that they want to care about.

1 (15m 0s):
Okay, so the internet becomes obsessed with this. And let me ask you, if I am to look online, where am I gonna see this most?

2 (15m 8s):
It's on Reddit, it's on Facebook, it's on Instagram, it's on web sleuths, anywhere there's social media. I have basically seen accounts trying to solve this and people, you know, debating amongst themselves, you know, I think this isn't new. I think humans have always been captivated by crime. I think people probably sat around their kitchen table and debated who was Jack the Ripper. What's different now is that in the age of social media, these debates are public families of the victims are reading it, friends are reading it.

2 (15m 50s):
The people who they are naming as suspects are reading it.

1 (15m 54s):
Are these internet sleuths having a real world effect on people in Moscow?

2 (15m 59s):
Yeah. I'll give you a couple examples. I saw at one point people going to Kaylee's teenage sister's Instagram to comment on her photos with questions about the case. At one point her younger sister was arguing with this internet sleuth account who was insisting the roommates must have done it. And her sister was saying No, they wouldn't have done that. They loved Maddie and Kaylee. And you see them going back and forth, back and forth and the sister is getting more and more upset as she's arguing with this complete stranger who is convinced they know who did it. Another example is, if you recall Kaylee and Maddie stopped by a food truck on their way home.

2 (16m 44s):
This food truck has a live video through Twitch where people can kind of watch everything that's happening outside the food truck.

19 (16m 50s):
Hello. Welcome back. I think I would like the

2 (16m 58s):
And the internet discovered that you could see Kayley and Maddie walk up to the food truck, make their order and then wait for their food

1 (17m 7s):
Do

2 (17m 7s):
Is, and in this video you see Kay and Maddie have this brief interaction with this guy wearing a hoodie. Thank you. Absolutely. And you know, you can interpret it as him being annoyed at them. Some people felt like they were avoiding him. It's hard to say. Like I said, the interaction was very minor and people of all these interpretations of what they were feeling and thinking, but the internet decided that this guy must have done it.

20 (17m 36s):
If you were so concerned about the girls getting home and took off to your parents' cabin five hours away right after this year alibi, why weren't you the one to give them them a safe ride home? Too much evidence that weigh right

2 (17m 53s):
And police finally had to come out and say, we have looked into him and we do not believe he did it. Now

21 (18m 0s):
Other information that we're learning here tonight, detectives don't believe the other two surviving roommates or the male in this Grub truck surveillance video are involved in this crime.

2 (18m 9s):
But for days you had everyone going after this person convinced he must have killed these girls.

1 (18m 15s):
Based on what you've told us, it sounds like people on the internet are forcing the police in Moscow to react to theories that have sprung up on the internet and which are not correct and in some cases are really genuinely hurtful.

2 (18m 28s):
One bizarre aspect has been that when police make a new public statement, maybe they hold a press conference. The majority of that statement is debunking rumors.

22 (18m 41s):
A lot of people have expressed their desire to help and the best thing that most of people can do to help is to stop with any kind of rumors and just seek official information that comes out of the Moscow Police Department.

2 (18m 53s):
They have had to say, we do not believe it was the roommates. We do not believe it was the man in the Twitch video. It got so bad and there were just so many rumors that they created a website with a list of questions and answers addressing all of the rumors. And you know, police have said that people are are calling and emailing in with tips. You know, they read something on the internet and they go to tell police. And so they're getting these same questions over and over and over again and they are just having to spend so much time and resources addressing these internet rumors that you know, have no factual basis to them.

1 (19m 38s):
And at the same time, I mean the people posting these ticks and these Reddit threads, they would argue that they are not malicious. They believe this is a tragedy also and they wanna help. How do you square that as a reporter covering this?

2 (19m 52s):
I think they genuinely want to solve the case. I think they genuinely want to help. The problem being, you know, how much can the internet actually help? You know, we have not seen many cases where it was the internet who, you know, crack this case wide open. And so the question becomes are they helping more than they're hurting or are they hurting more than they're helping?

23 (20m 22s):
I am responsible culture 43 on Reddit. I am one of the moderators for the Moscow Murders subreddit. I got interested in this case because I do live in Washington, so it was pretty local and it was big news and it was pretty unique in how the case was cuz it was like a pretty big shock for such a small college town. So I was following it as it was always on like the local news. And then looking at Reddit, I try to consider myself to be more of like an ethical true crime person and we really wanted to make sure that this was gonna be a subreddit that had the news and we didn't allow any disrespectful conversations towards the victims or families or people that might be involved, that haven't been identified by the police.

1 (21m 5s):
I just talked to a reporter for a newspaper in Idaho who said her reporting shows that internet sleuth have done some real harm to victims' families by giving oxygen to rumors. They've sold the police down because the police are so busy responding to rumors that have popped up on internet forums. How do you reckon with the fact that perhaps what you're doing is really distracting here, distracting to the people who are supposed to solve this thing?

23 (21m 32s):
Yeah, I mean that's definitely a big thing that we take into consideration and we've been changing our rules to kind of like, you know, lock down as we were, as we were talking about before on some of the speculation and rumors and theories that people have been coming up with. We've been trying to keep everything to those singular threads. I think in comparison to some other of the other subreddits that have kind of popped up in reaction to us having such strong rules cuz it has taken a lot of the internet over. I know that there's a lot of like Facebook groups, there's about three other subreddits that have also popped up that are definitely a little bit more of like the wild West than I would say our, our subreddit is. So we definitely have been trying to adjust our rules as things have been escalating to make sure that we're keeping it locked down.

23 (22m 13s):
I think it's great to have like one place on Reddit that people can go to to be able to get the information. Also everybody that I work with on the mod team is all really great. We're all of like the same mindset of of respecting victims, their families not having like propaganda and trying to just have like a really respectful place on the internet to be able to just get the news for this case that is very local for all of us on the mod team.

1 (22m 41s):
I was on the Reddit for a couple of hours this morning and you know it's possible that I'm just a very old school journalist and I hear what you're saying about respect, but there's a lot of stuff on this Reddit that is just from a journalistic perspective that is just like wild speculation. Do you really think this is responsible?

23 (22m 58s):
So definitely when it comes to Reddit, we as the moderators do the best that we can to be able to pull down any content that we find does not go in line with our separate rules or the Reddit rules. But as it is a community, we also still need people to report comments or posts that don't go in line with our rules that aren't filtered out by our odds. And so sometimes we do miss the mark on being able to find those things, but we do definitely try our best. I know as a team we definitely want people to say if they're speculating or if they're doing their own theory and that's not something that would be in line with our content that we agree with.

1 (23m 41s):
Do you think that you and the subreddit can and will help solve this case?

23 (23m 47s):
Definitely not. That is not even like the purpose of the sub, it was for news and I definitely don't think that armchair detectives from across the country that have no law enforcement background, no investigative like background will be able to do anything to solve this case.

1 (24m 16s):
Today's show was produced by Miles Bryan and Hatti Modi. It was engineered by a theme Shapiro and Fact checked by Laura Bullard Today. Explains editor is Matthew Colette. And I'm Noelle King.