1 (2s):
Almost certainly, you know, someone who's on one of the big weight loss drugs, Ozempic, wegovy or someone who would like to be, but probably you haven't thought a ton about the company that makes those drugs. Novo Nordisk companies based in Denmark, but just bought a big manufacturing site in New Jersey. A hundred plus acres in North Carolina, another huge plant in Indiana, one in Italy, another in Belgium. This is not normal, guys. This is the kind of expansion you can do. Only if you've created the airplane or the iPhone or the next Wonder Truck. Novo nor Nordisk is reshaping the Danish economy. It's bigger than the country's entire gross domestic product.

1 (45s):
And today, on today explained, we'll hear an argument that it could reshape the American economy too.

2 (1m 0s):
In 19 37, 2 researchers had a kind of dangerous idea, so they figured the perfect place to test it out was in an elementary school on kids on the eve of a massive epidemic. The

3 (1m 12s):
Idea was air would go through these things they called a radiation chambers. Ev rays would blast the air and It would kill off the pathogens

Unexplainable podcast (1m 21s):
This week on Unexplainable. Could a century old hunch about ultraviolet light save us from respiratory disease? And if so, what's the catch? Listen to Unexplainable new episodes every Wednesday.

‎The Gray Area  (1m 34s):
Hey, it's Sean Ling, host of the Gray area. This week on the show is America's policy of internationalism starting to crack For all of our economic might and all of our military prowess. We haven't really done too hot. People are smart, they get it. It's not like they dislike NATO or they dislike European countries or those allies, but they're going, what? Why? Get out of it. Journalist Alex Ward joins us

4 (2m 2s):
this week on the gray area.

1 (2m 12s):
Oh, hey, it's today explained. I'm Noel King. For a long time, Denmark's biggest company was shipping Giant and recent Red Sea wilding victim Maersk. And if you feel like one day you were just hearing about Ozempic everywhere, same. Same for Michael Tuchi who covers economics for the Danish newspaper Pcan.

6 (2m 32s):
It came about very quickly, I think, and I think most people have that impression that suddenly it was all over on top of every conversation, especially in in, in Denmark. Did

1 (2m 42s):
It permeate the pop culture there?

6 (2m 44s):
I think it did, but but I think that that came from the US actually. Yeah.

0 (2m 50s):
Ah, Jolo, you look thin. Thank you. Ozempic. Yep. Oh, are you, when I look around this room, I can't help

7 (2m 59s):
But wonder is Ozempic right for me?

8 (3m 3s):
Plus if you tell your family you're on Ozempic, they'll know you were lying when you said you lost the weight at the old fashioned way. Cocaine.

6 (3m 13s):
Elon Musk was tweeting about that he was on Wegovy. Obviously we get a lot of pop culture from America, so we got it that way. Lemme say, tell that.

1 (3m 23s):
Okay, so you guys export the groundbreaking medication and the United States exports the culture trash. Tell me about the company that makes Ozempic and Wegovy.

6 (3m 33s):
Novo. Nordisk is worth about $530 billion at the moment. Totally staggering numbers. It's in the top 20 most valuable companies in the world right now.

9 (3m 44s):
Novo Nordisk is Europe's most valuable company. It takes the top spot away from luxury goods giant LVMH, which sells Louis Vuitton handbags and Hennessy Cognac.

6 (3m 55s):
And for a small country like Denmark, that is like a huge thing. And something that I don't think any economist or analyst would've expected, just like five years ago,

10 (4m 5s):
Novo's market capitalization has surged from about $100 billion in 2020 to a high of $461 billion earlier this month. Bigger than Denmark's entire GDP

6 (4m 18s):
Novo Nordisk has more than doubled its market value for in in the last three years. Wow. Wow. So we, it, it was a big, it was a big company in, in Danish terms, but it was nowhere near the top of the world. When we look at market value,

1 (4m 32s):
What does Denmark's economy look like in this height of Ozempic kind of age?

6 (4m 37s):
A good way to just to describe that is just to referring to an interview I did with a top analyst in the, the Danish National Bank a few months ago. He said that basically if it wasn't for Denmark's pharmaceutical industry, and by that he really means Novo Nordisk because they are by far the biggest, the, the Danish economy wouldn't have seen any growth last year.

10 (5m 2s):
If you strip out the pharmaceutical sector, which is now dominated by Novo, the Danish economy actually shrank by nor 0.3%.

6 (5m 10s):
We have seen countries close to us in Europe where the economy has not looked great at all for the last year or so. So it makes a huge difference for Danish economy at the moment. And you know, on top of that, Novo Nordisk is by far the largest taxpayer in this country, and it also is contributing a lot to Danish education, to Danish science. So it plays a huge role in the Danish economy. These, these years.

1 (5m 37s):
Do you see those changes?

6 (5m 39s):
Do the average Dane feel that that country is becoming richer? Maybe they don't, but they can see that in certain parts of the country where Novo Nordisk has its largest activity, Novo Nordisk is completely reshaping these parts of the country. I myself grew up in, in a quite small town where Novo Nortis has its largest factory and they have invested hundreds of millions of dollars into that small town for the last couple of years. When I go back to visit my mom, who lives in Lumbo, when you drive into the city now, there is like huge factories

11 (6m 19s):
Located just one hour drive from the capital city of Copenhagen. You'll find the industrial cluster of Calumbo home to the world's largest insulin manufacturing plant where Nova Nordisk employ around 3,500 staff

6 (6m 36s):
For a lot of years. Where you would see young people when they've gone to, to high school or gone to college, they would move away from the city. There had really been not many reasons for them to return. I think that has changed a lot. When you get closer to the city, you can see buildings, you can see huge cranes, a lot of trucks are driving past you. When you go there in the afternoon, a lot of cars is there, people are commuting to Lumbo. And that is a huge difference from, from what you saw before. There

12 (7m 11s):
Are so many jobs already for engineers. That's, that's the, the good part about having the education here in Columba is because we have all these companies. So we are surrounded. So it's so easy to get a job afterwards.

6 (7m 23s):
This is has become a city that is thriving. People suddenly speaking Engle English at the bakery and, and they are demanding, you know, like international schools and even in, in the suburbs. So it has brought about a lot of change.

1 (7m 43s):
Do you know the concept of resource curse?

6 (7m 46s):
Let me end on that. That

1 (7m 47s):
Is when an economy becomes over, it becomes overdependent on one thing. So you will see this in the Middle East with a country that only has oil. Absolutely. Yeah. Does anyone ever say, what if we become too dependent on Wegovy and Ozempic? What if we're in Ozempic economy in 10 years and then ba ba bop.

6 (8m 9s):
Some economists stress that there is a risk to countries who is significantly dependent on just one or a few companies. And one example of that is some, a country very close to us is Finland, who in the 2000, the early 2000 heavily dependent on their biggest company at the time, Nokia the cell phone manufacturer, as I'm sure you know. But when Apple and other producers overtook Nokia in the late two thousands, the Finnish economy stagnated for almost 10 years. Most economists does not consider this as an very, as a very imminent threat to Novo Nordisk, but more as a thing worth thinking about.

6 (8m 59s):
And the reason for Novo Nortis Danish business is to stay front runners on pharmaceutical issues, but also other high technology businesses.

1 (9m 9s):
This has me wondering about your predictions for this drug because so many people want it and so many people could be helped by it. It seems to me that there is no end to just how big Wegovy and Ozempic could be. What are your predictions for what this might mean in, in five years, in 10 years for your country's economy and for its people?

6 (9m 34s):
The market for weight loss drugs, if you ask most analysts is, you know, like huge.

13 (9m 41s):
The market potential is, I would say almost unlimited. And the demand outlook is incredible. And the biggest problem right now for no Nordisk is producing enough. They cannot meet demand.

6 (10m 1s):
It's quite difficult to get your head head around what would this mean for Danish economy? What do, how, how large can Nova Nordics become? But also what, what do these drugs mean for our perception of what obesity is? Would, would we at some point get where, get to where almost everyone is taking some kind of medication to control your weight? And who's going to be selling that? Is that Novo Nordisk? It might be

1 (10m 30s):
Michael Tooker of Pulin newspaper in Denmark coming up. A man who says Ozempic could prove to be a bigger economic driver than artificial intelligence. And yes, he's serious.

On Air Fest  (10m 55s):
Hey, John Glenn Hill here, host of The Weeds, and I hope you'll join me at the eighth annual on Air Fest Audio Storytelling Festival. It's February 28th through March 1st at the Wife Hotel in Brooklyn. On Air Fest Includes podcast creators and taste makers like Avery Truffleman, Tanya Mosley, Sarah Kig, Malcolm Gladwell, Nora Jones, Seth Myers, and more. Plus I'll be in conversation about podcasting in an election year alongside Ted Herndon of the Runup and Kate Shaw of the strict scrutiny podcast. Don't miss what Fast Company calls the Coachella of podcasts with multiple days of live performances, parties, and of course podcasts. If you are a true podcast nerd like me, it's sure to be a great time. That's February 28th through March 1st at the White Hotel in Brooklyn. You can find tickets@onairfest.com. See you there.

On with Kara Swisher (11m 56s):
Hi, this is Kara Swisher, host of On with Kara Swisher from New York Magazine and Vox Media. We've already had a ton of great guests on the show this year, and we're continuing this trend this week with one of my favorite actors, Paul Giamatti, who's up for an Oscar for his new film, the Holdovers. You know, i, I play these kind of hyper articulate people. I do a lot of talking and so I, I think of early on people identified me as a guy that was good with the words. The words. So that, that I think happens a lot. I would love to play a character sometime, doesn't talk as much. I would love it, Yes, but we love him in these chatty roles. So Paul, keep being hyper depressed and hyper wordy. Listen to my full conversation with Paul now, wherever you get your podcast and subscribe to the show for more Empi beep.

1 (12m 48s):
It's today explained. We're back people taking these GL one agonists, they're called like Ozempic. They eat less than they did before taking the drugs. Some people also say they drink less, they shop less, they don't wanna smoke anymore. Now a notable thing about a consumer economy such as ours, is that it does require people to consume. And so some companies have experienced a bit of a freak out. Josh Barrow, who writes the very serious substack has been covering this. I

19 (13m 17s):
Write mostly about politics in the economy. And so obviously that's extremely broad and can encompass, you know, almost everything as part of the economy. And then I also write about interesting industries, especially that may have larger economic effects. And I think that's where Ozempic comes in.

1 (13m 31s):
Okay, so last summer I saw you tweeted 10 years from now, it'll be obvious GLP one drugs were a way bigger deal than ai. Yeah. Okay. So you're saying Ozempic is gonna be a bigger deal than Ja G-T-P-G-P-T in the end of the world and everything. That's a major thing to say. Can you make the case?

19 (13m 48s):
Well, sure. So first of all, I think AI and software more broadly have generally been oversold in terms of their economic effects. And I think that GLP one drugs are a really important advance because being overweight is so common, a a majority of US adults are overweight. And so I think this, these are drugs that are ultimately, that they're gonna be appropriate for more than half of American adults. And I think people are going to have good results from them and in the long run, they're not going to be prohibitively expensive and difficult to obtain like they have been in the last few years. So I think that it's going to be really widely used medical intervention that is going to have a lot of positive effects for people.

1 (14m 26s):
And so for someone who says, who's listening to this and says, yeah, that's actually really great, like half of all people potentially could get this drug, make the case that this is a big deal for the economy for, for people whom that might slide past.

19 (14m 39s):
Well, so I think it's in, in a, in a few ways. One is that being overweight and especially being obese is a significant medical risk factor. And that has costs, it has costs in terms of, of medical care that people need because of conditions that are related to that, whether that's heart disease or diabetes or even joint problems. And then it also causes an increase in risk of disability. And that, you know, that obviously is a, a human problem, but it's also an economic problem. It means that people can't work in the way that they once did either that they, you know, they can't work as many hours or they can't work as long into their lives. And so, because I think it will reduce the disability rate, I think that that will show up in productivity and then it's also going to change the way people consume.

19 (15m 27s):
There's been this sort of weird fixation in a lot of the press coverage on things that people might consume less of. Well,

21 (15m 33s):
Switching gears here. Walmart seeing a slight pullback of shoppers. The company's us CEO has told Bloomberg that they're seeing an impact on shopping demand from people taking the diabetes drugs Ozempic.

19 (15m 44s):
And that, and that might be true on some micro levels and there are specific businesses that you might be in where this, this drug is probably bad for you. But the thing is that people, if, you know, if they're not going out and spending their money on Doritos, they still have that money. And in fact, maybe they have a little bit more money because they're a little bit more productive and then they can go out and find other new things to spend that money on. And so basically, if you're not in an industry that has specifically negative effects on consumption demand from Ozempic, you should tend to be thinking of that as an industry where there will be positive effects. People will have more money around, more time around to spend on, on your product. Weight loss is a huge source of frustration for people. It is widely desired.

19 (16m 25s):
People who are overweight, you know, they, they want to lose weight, but most things don't work. Well lose

22 (16m 30s):
10 pounds and five inches overall in your first month.

23 (16m 33s):
You won't just lose your weight. 94, Jenny,

24 (16m 38s):
I lost 26 pounds and I have eaten bread every single dinner.

19 (16m 45s):
And people bang their heads against the wall and they end up feeling bad about themselves and they spend tremendous amounts of time and money on things that in a, in an often futile pursuit of weight loss. And if you instead have this intervention that works quite well and requires much less effort on the part of the, the consumer, that frees up time and money again to go spend on on other things.

1 (17m 6s):
Okay, so business and Wall Street are paying attention to Ozempic business and Wall Street are not the same thing, but I want you to kind of untangle those two for us. What has that looked like so far? Is it entirely hand wring who's looking at the optimistic side of this and saying, oh guys, all this money could be good?

19 (17m 24s):
Yeah, well, I mean, so obviously the, the, the first answer is the drug companies that make these drugs that they, you know, this is a, a tremendous business for them and we're just seeing, you know, a small part of the addressable market here. And of course it's, you know, weight loss is one of the major indications for these. They're also the, they, they're diabetes treatments and there's, you know, diabetes is a tremendous problem and that is also a huge market. And so, you know, you, you see Novo, Nordisk, Eli Lilly, potentially Pfizer, which has a drug in the pipeline, you know, they're gonna make a lot of money off this. And the, the prices that people are seeing right now are eye watering list prices over a thousand dollars a month. The effective pricing for Wegovy seems to have come down this year. Zep Bound, which is the Eli Lilly competitor to Wegovy that's gonna be pricing at, at approximately 550 a month for people whose insurance is not paying for it.

19 (18m 13s):
And so, you know, if the Pfizer drug comes onto the market and as Eli Lilly and Novo Nordisk ramp up production, I think there will be price competition that pushes those prices down somewhat farther, but the market's very big. So those drug companies are obviously gonna make a lot of money from that. I mentioned the junk food thing. You also see, you know, wall Street analysts have been interested in asking questions about this on earnings calls.

25 (18m 34s):
You know, I I'm wondering your perspective on GLP one, you know, drugs and the impact on, on restaurant demand, maybe Darden's restaurant demand. I'm not gonna ask your average BMI for your customers, but any perspective, I know it's something that's on investors' mind. So I I figured I'd

19 (18m 53s):
Ask, there was a discussion that United Airlines might save millions of dollars a year because of passengers being lighter and therefore taking less fuel to carry them.

23 (19m 1s):
One study done by the Jeffries Financial Group found that if the average airline passenger lost 10 pounds, it could dramatically impact how much fuel planes need to fly equating to $80 million in savings in annual fuel costs per airline.

19 (19m 18s):
So, you know, it's, it's sort of an interesting fact that you'll have a, you know, millions of dollars in fuel savings a year, but it's not that large relative to the overall cost of, of running an airline. I think part of the reason that you've had this fixation on the negative e economic effects is that it's, it's very easy to identify, you know, Doritos and products like that where you'll have the decline in consumption and basically you're likely to see the increase in, in basically every other category. So it's not necessarily going to be a large increase. You're not gonna look at the income statement of a company and say, these profits were due to Ozempic, but you should see a, a broad based improvement in the areas where people are going and spending their time and their money that they used to spend on other things on those,

1 (19m 60s):
Just this morning I was reading a story in Fortune Europe, the CEO of Novo Nordisk says that scared CEOs are calling him to like, just discuss and he didn't, he wouldn't tell Fortune who it was. Right. And so they speculate that it's a lot of like potentially fast food companies, basically companies that deal with what we put in our mouths. Right. But like what you're saying sounds so sensible to me and I try hard to think of CEOs as sensible people who like game things out. Right. Why do you think they seem so shook?

19 (20m 34s):
Well, I think first of all it's it's uncertainty and you know, people, they, they, they know their business. They have a, a view on their customers. Their customers are about to change in some way. I mean, I don't know what it's like to run a fine dining restaurant in New York right now, now where, 'cause you know, the, the market penetration for these drugs is not that high yet. But if you have, you know, certain settings with, you know, especially affluent customers who might be, who might be trendsetters in certain areas, you might be seeing a lot of your customer base on this. Are they sending back way more food than they used to on their plates ate? So I'm sure the, I'm sure you're starting to see some industries where you're actually starting to see critical mass with customers and the customers are different. And even if in the long run it's going to be an opportunity they have to figure out how to capitalize on that opportunity.

19 (21m 15s):
And that's challenging. There's also a specific matter in the United States, which is that employers pay for healthcare expenses. Right now the drugs are very expensive and they're sometimes being covered by insurance even though they're very often not being covered by insurance. And that's a really large expenditure for whoever is the payer. And so that could be a, a private company if you have someone with, with private health insurance in the long run, this is also going to be an issue for the US government. And therefore for taxpayers, there's currently a law that says that Medicare is not allowed to pay for weight loss drugs. But I certainly expect there to be significant political pressure around that. 'cause there are lots of people on Medicare for whom these drugs would be very appropriate for weight loss.

19 (21m 55s):
And so when that pressure is brought to bear at some point Medicare is gonna be paying some price for that and that's gonna fall on taxpayers. And so there is, you know, especially in that transition before the prices have come down as far as they will and before we're fully feeling those positive economic effects, you know, someone is going to be paying those costs that are accruing to Novo Nordisk and to Eli Lilly as profits. And that's that that's a negative factor for, for people who might be payers, which obviously includes corporations. Josh,

1 (22m 22s):
You, yourself are taking Wegovy. Tell me about what your experience has been like.

19 (22m 27s):
I've been on it for about five months now. I've lost 24 pounds and it's been, it's been great. It's really changed my relationship to food. The, the amazing thing to me is not that I've lost the weight, but how easy it has been for me to lose the weight. It causes you to just simply desire food less. I still enjoy food. Food is something that's very interesting to me and it's still interesting to me. But if you put a plate of it in front of me, I can be like, oh, that's, that's fantastic. And I eat a few bites and then once I'm not hungry anymore, I stop. And that was always the thing that was so difficult for me. I was always really cynical about these like food influencers with six pack abs and I'd see people like, they, they bake these, these decadent cakes and then they, you know, they don't look like they've ever eaten a cake in their life.

19 (23m 12s):
And I always thought this, this was basically fake and now I, now I can understand what it must be like inside their brains. 'cause they can, they can make this cake and they can have a small slice of the cake and then they've had enough and that it really is possible to be wired like that. And now it seems like with this drug that I am wired like that and I'm really happy about it.

1 (23m 32s):
Has Wegovy meant anything for your personal economy, the way you spend money? Invest money,

19 (23m 38s):
At least my personal experience is I spend a lot of time thinking about my weight and I spend a lot of money and a lot of, and and a lot of effort, you know, on exercise and, you know, trying to focus on a diet and that sort of thing. And being relieved of that just, you know, sort of gives me more bandwidth to spend on other things. I think that's one of the most exciting parts of this and one of the effects that, that isn't getting as much attention initially. So I think that's a, that's a positive effect for me. I wasn't a compulsive shopper. That's another thing that's been showing up as, as a discussion of, oh, this is going to be bad for retailers because there won't be compulsive shopping again. Those, those people, they still have that money if they're still working, they're gonna want to consume on something, maybe something that makes them happier than whatever they would've impulse bought.

19 (24m 19s):
But ultimately I think, you know, our economy works better if people are making, considered spending decisions on things that will actually make them happy. So if that's another shift that the drug is, is causing at the margin, I think that's, that's likely to be, to be good for individuals and, and should even show up as a, as a better functioning economy overall.

1 (24m 40s):
Josh Barrow, he writes the very serious Substack a year or so into the Ozempic revolution. There's now a truth universally acknowledged that some people with larger bodies don't wanna lose weight. They don't care for BS pure pressure. They like the skin they're in. What they would like is a world that doesn't penalize them for being fat. We're gonna explore that Monday on today. Explained today's show was produced by Victoria Chamberlin and edited by Jolie Meyers. It was fact checked by Kim Eggleston and engineered by Rob Byers. Thank you to Economist Matthias Op, frail. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.