1 (2s):
You will recall that around the time Donald Trump won the presidency in the United States, we started worrying about authoritarian leaders. Turkey's president, reg t Erdogan was one of them. He'd followed a similar playbook to Trump's appealed to a conservative base, largely religious that felt left out, juice the economy and slowly chip away at things like the free press and free speech. And as it did in the US it worked. Erdogan has been very popular among many of his countrymen and country women. But Turks voted in a presidential election over the weekend and for the first time in a long time some cracks started to show Erdogan lost half the population in a Democratic vote and he's been forced into a runoff with a challenger Coming up on today explained how a bad economy and a very bad earthquake backed an authoritarian leader into a corner.

2 (59s):
Support today. Explained today comes from Remotely Curious, a podcast from Dropbox. Remotely curious, focuses on the new world of work, whether in person, hybrid or remote or as Dropbox calls it, virtual first, cute. Each episode includes a conversation with an expert about topics like fashion, creativity, or being the new kid here from guests like podcast or musician, Rishikesh, Hiway, fashion historian, Deidra Clemente, behavioral scientist, Katie Milkman. And more new episodes are available right now. You can find, follow and listen to Remotely Curious wherever you get your podcasts.

3 (1m 31s):
Hi, I'm Neila Patel, editor-in-chief at the Verge and host of Decoder, the show about big ideas and other problems on it. I talk to leaders, innovators, and policy makers at the frontiers of business and technology about what keeps them up at night. Oh my God, you just hit on a giant thing, the competition.

4 (1m 47s):
I have the greatest of Admirations for Google and what they've done. I want people to know that we made them dance

3 (1m 52s):
And what is going on, what is happening. So if you wanna know what's going on, check out decoder on Apple Podcast, Spotify or wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (2m 10s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King with Humira Pook. She's a correspondent for Reuters who covers foreign policy and Humira says this election was indeed a big one.

5 (2m 20s):
This was indeed a historic election in Turkey and in the first round, which took place on Sunday. We have seen incumbent president retype Erdogan to garner 49.4% of the vote.

6 (2m 38s):
We do not doubt that the choice of our nation, which gave the majority and the parliament to our alliance, will be in favor of trust and stability.

5 (2m 45s):
His rival opposition Challenger got around 45% of the vote,

7 (2m 55s):
Tells them to work for a brighter future. His logo is a heart symbol,

5 (3m 0s):
Which means that now this race is going to go to a runoff that is going to take place on May the 28th. It's quite the nail biting, nerve-wracking competition so far.

1 (3m 15s):
Why is it so nerve-wracking and nail biting? Is it just the closeness of the numbers or is it what's at stake here?

5 (3m 22s):
It is because of what's at stake. This is a historic election for Turkey and the Economist has declared this as one of the most important elections of 2023. It really is because Turkey is a major regional power that sits in a geographically unique and valuable place. That geographical advantage allows it to be very instrumental in diplomatic theaters that have global importance.

8 (3m 51s):
After months of global grain shortage, negotiators in Turkey say that they have reached a deal to resume grain exports from Ukraine

5 (3m 58s):
And Ukraine War is the most recent and best example. Turkey is also a NATO ally and an EU aspirant country.

1 (4m 7s):
Why is the election so close?

5 (4m 9s):
There is a severe economic crisis at

9 (4m 12s):
This market. Shoppers told us they can only afford to buy a fraction of the groceries they used to. I'm 80 years old and I've never seen such high prices. We should change this at this woman,

5 (4m 27s):
Turkish lira has depreciated a great deal. The economy's clearly mismanaged and there was also only three months ago a devastating earthquake in the southeast that killed 50,000 people.

11 (4m 42s):
A magnitude 7.8 captured on security cameras bringing down buildings in an instant.

5 (4m 48s):
So you can ask the question, why is type Erdogan able to get nearly half the votes when there are so many reasons that work against him? But Erdogan has the advantages of an incumbent. He represents stability to many people, even though his policies have been the reason why the economy is so bad. And he's a really skillful politician and he has made sure that he exploits all of these advantages fully.

1 (5m 31s):
One of the things that the west is particularly concerned about in Turkey is democracy. So I was looking at a chart a couple of days ago that suggests when T Erdogan became Prime Minister in 2003, Turkey became less democratic and it continued to become less democratic more and more until today, and by some measures, Turkey is barely a democracy at this point. What happened? What did Erdogan do

5 (5m 58s):
In the initial years of Erdogan? A lot of people in the West actually did see him as a model for the rest of the Middle East as a model democracy. There are a lot of articles in New York Times archives calling him the Muslim Democrat. For a couple of years he has actually done reforms to improve liberties and rights and freedoms of women. But that was only for for a couple of years and I think we can, it's safe to say that since 2010 we have seen a backsliding in the Turkish democracy.

5 (6m 40s):
The rights of certain groups of people, Kurds, secularists, these were curtailed. We are looking at journalists being jailed

12 (6m 52s):
In Turkey. Four journalists and a writer have been charged with being involved in a plot to overthrow the government. All of the men have been fiercely critical of the administration in their writing. They're accused of membership of a terrorist group and inciting hatred.

5 (7m 5s):
President Erdogan and his lawyers have filed thousands of criminal complaints against citizens, accusing them of insulting the President and some of these accusations. Some of these charges were based on tweets. Something a citizen has said in a television broadcast. They have also made new legislation that would allow them to possibly censor what you can say on the internet.

2 (7m 37s):
<unk> could have predicted the scene about to unfold on the floor of the Turkish parliament was protesting against the bill that's meant to stamp out this information. But opponents say it'll become another tool to stifle dissent.

5 (7m 54s):
They have also been in touch with Twitter trying to restrict some of the accounts.

14 (7m 60s):
You know, I don't want to hear about Elam Musk talking about free speech African, he's literally bow down to a dictatorship.

5 (8m 6s):
So when you look at the big picture, we have seen a democratic backsliding. We have seen a curtailing of human rights freedoms, definitely the freedom of the press and that has caused a lot of concern in the West.

1 (8m 22s):
Despite all of this retype. Erdogan got about half of the vote in this election over the weekend. The people who voted for Erdogan, why don't they mind that Turkey is becoming less democratic? What is Erdogan doing for them?

5 (8m 35s):
I think in emerging countries like Turkey, things like human rights, press freedom. They always take a backseat when your primary problem is the economy. Erdogan emerged as the leader of conservative pious Turks whose voices had been suppressed in the 1970s. Turkey has had multiple military coups and it had been for years ran by these army generals who weren't very tolerant of any Islamist tendency. One

15 (9m 15s):
Of the, the things that happened during the soft coup was the the head scarf ban really becoming more entrenched, filtering down into more regulations and and banning the head scarf almost completely from public institutions, including universities.

5 (9m 30s):
So those groups who have felt long oppressed thought that Erdogan was the leader who represented them and he did come from humble roots, even though today he does live in a Palestine anchor and he managed to connect with those people in a way that no other politician was able to. And again, in his initial days, and to a certain extent to date, let's say in the first, within the first decade, he has helped pull working class out of poverty. He has made health services much more accessible, build bridges, schools.

5 (10m 16s):
He really did improve living conditions for millions of Turks. But again, within in his first decade. All of those things have really helped him to create and maintain a really tight and solidified voter base that at the moment is not really paying attention to anything else that's happening because their identity connection with him is really, really strong.

1 (10m 52s):
Okay, he's popular with his base. His base is about half the country. The other half of the country went out this weekend and voted for someone else. Why might Erdogan lose this election? What are his weaknesses?

5 (11m 7s):
I think the economy was thought to be the biggest weakness because it was the economy which kept Erdogan in power for so many years. As we said, there were things that wasn't going well. Human rights freedoms, democratic backsliding, judicial independence, rule of law. Turkey has had problems and Turkey has seen its track record basically deteriorate in all of those aspects. But the economic problems have been piling up for several years. Poverty is a real thing.

5 (11m 47s):
And the second big thing is again, the devastating earthquake. 50,000 people have been killed. Tens of thousands, if not millions of homes have been destroyed. And this devastating impact has a lot to do with how Erdogan's government has worked with construction companies and lacks enforcement of safety standards. The results of the first round show us that his base was not very responsive to the economic problems. The conservative people are well aware of the economic problems they are suffering through that the people whose homes were destroyed in the devastating earthquake that happened in February, they are well aware that the hardship that go that they're going through.

5 (12m 43s):
But the key thing here is they don't see Erdogan as the culprit of this.

17 (12m 51s):
I will sacrifice myself for him this natural disaster was a test from God. <unk> did what he could and people should be thankful I am, even though I'm living in a tent

5 (13m 1s):
For the earthquake. They think it was a natural disaster that came from God. And in the end, Erdogan is still the best placed person to pull them out of this when it comes to the economy. Erdogan has been extremely successful in exploiting the post-truth environment. At every instance he has managed to find another culprit to blame. Every single time people talked about how the economic conditions were bad, he, he blamed foreign powers. He blamed a so-called interest rate lobby.

5 (13m 44s):
He blamed the West

18 (13m 50s):
Al.

5 (13m 52s):
He blamed Biden just the day before the election and when he ran out of people to blame, he said The price of the onion is so expensive because the grocery store owners are artificially keeping it high. So do you see what's happening here? Yes, he's got a narrative and it is strongly resonating with millions of people

1 (14m 23s):
Coming up. Who is the man now posing such a threat to Erdogan's Power Support for today's show comes from ramp. If you're running a business ramp, might be able to help you keep your finances in order. What is Ramp You?

1 (15m 3s):
Ask? Ramp is an expense management software designed to help you save time and reign in spending from corporate cards to bill payments to accounting integrations. RAMP says it has helped over 10,000 businesses save a total of more than 400 million to date Plus ramp can give your finance teams unprecedented control the control they seek and insight into company spending. You can issue cards to every employee with limits and restrictions and automate expense reporting so you can stop wasting time at the end of every month. You can get $250 when you join ramp. If you go to ramp.com/explain, that's ramp r a mp.com/explained.

19 (15m 46s):
Hey folks, I'm Heather Cox Richardson.

20 (15m 48s):
And I'm Joanne Freeman.

19 (15m 50s):
We're the hosts of now and then a podcast from Cafe and the Vox Media podcast network that looks to the American past to make sense of our current political and cultural climate.

20 (16m 1s):
Recently we've traced the tangled history of the New York County District Attorney's office, the American cultural fascination with UFOs and our national love hate relationship with the banking industry.

19 (16m 12s):
Tune in each Wednesday as we make sense of the headlines and the long road to this crucial moment for democracy.

20 (16m 19s):
Listen for free, wherever you get your podcasts,

1 (16m 29s):
It's today explained. Humira Pook is a correspondent with Reuters. She covers foreign policy. Humira. Tell me about the challenger here. Kamal Kou.

5 (16m 39s):
So K was born in the Eastern province of <unk> in Turkey. He's an vie a minority group that follows the faith drawing on Shiite Muslim, Sufi and Anatolian folk traditions. Ben,

21 (16m 59s):
I am a Levi. I'm a sincere Muslim who was raised with the faith of the prophet Muhammad and Ali.

5 (17m 5s):
Before entering politics, he worked in the finance ministry. He then chaired Turkey's social in insurance institution. He was a former civil servant. He became a lawmaker in 2002, the year when Erdogan actually came to power and he rose to prominence as the anti-graft campaigner. And in his campaign for this election making right the corrupt ways, ending corruption, ending graft, bringing back rule of law was a big part of his rhetoric.

22 (17m 46s):
We are not going to leave the fate of the Turkish Republic in the hands of one person and no one will accept the words of just one person.

5 (17m 54s):
I've met him in person. He's very mild mannered, quite different from Erdogan.

23 (18m 1s):
They call him Turkey is Gandhi. <unk> colleagues say he's soft spoken like Mahama Gandhi and to a certain degree even looks like him.

5 (18m 12s):
Admittedly, he does lack the charisma that Erdogan has and has helped him convince millions of voters. But he comes across as a very decent, simple and straightforward man.

1 (18m 34s):
So if Erdogan is this populist conservative who is beloved by people like Donald Trump, where is OU politically, what does he represent?

5 (18m 45s):
It's not super straightforward because as I said, he's trying to put together a very inclusive platform.

24 (18m 53s):
He leads the secular Republican people's party or C H P and also the National Alliance, a group of parties also known as the Table of six.

5 (19m 4s):
And that brings together a lot of turkey's, different voices. He is partnering up with an Islamist party, which involves some members who were once in Erdogan's movement. His party is in an informal alliance with the country's Kurds and of course he's got the votes of secular. C H P C H P was established by modern turkey's. Founder must and C H P has traditionally attracted secularist voters. So to put him in the political spectrum, by definition, I guess he's left wing because c h b traditionally has been.

5 (19m 52s):
But as mentioned, he is in an alliance with an Islamist party. He's in an alliance with a nationalist party. I think it's fair to say he's trying to put together a very inclusive platform, hoping to appeal to as many Turks as possible.

25 (20m 12s):
<unk> who focuses on kitchen table issues from his kitchen table.

26 (20m 19s):
This is the real agenda of the people as they all know that when I come to power there will be democracy and your purchasing power will increase.

1 (20m 27s):
Okay, so you've got a religious conservative in Erdogan versus a guy who's like, no, we're gonna need a broader coalition and he kind of gathers everyone into the fold. This is Kou. Am I reading that right? Is there kind of a culture war within the election?

5 (20m 43s):
You are spot on. There are culture wars and we have seen the electorate vote in line with the cultural war fault lines in this election.

25 (20m 57s):
Turkish president t Erdogan last weekend branded his opponent pro L G B T, a supporter of terrorism and a drunker.

5 (21m 6s):
That is why for some the result has been really surprising cuz we have not seen the electorate punish Erdogan because of the state of the economy. Instead, they felt that they still identify with him and that this, this connection over identity somehow is far more important reason for them to vote for him than to hold him accountable for the economic mismanagement that has led to their own hardship.

1 (21m 41s):
I see. So at this point, how likely or unlikely is it that Erdogan loses this election?

5 (21m 48s):
It's well established that this was one of the most unfair campaign periods because of Erdogan's. You know, outsized advantage when it comes to having resources, when it comes to having airtime on tv, the visibility of opposition candidates. So you can flip that question and say against all the odds, there was this incredible resilience and passion to go out, rally behind the opposition campaign with him on behalf of him and exercise this one democratic right that many citizens are left with.

5 (22m 35s):
So you can say 45% against all those odds is pretty remarkable.

1 (22m 42s):
I'm thinking of that democracy chart and how under with Erdogan in power, it's ticked down, down, down, down. Every year, turkey's a bit less democratic. If Erdogan wins and many analysts think that he will, what would that say about where Turkey is headed?

5 (23m 1s):
I don't see any reasons or any signals why Erdogan would suddenly change his course if he ends up winning. It is going to be a stamp of frugal from the people who voted for him, that what he has been doing all these years is right and that they like it and that they should continue with it. Of course, he really needs to find the solution to the deteriorating economic situation because it's really, really unsustainable. Whether or not he takes steps to improve Turkey's human rights, track record, press freedoms, freedom of expression.

5 (23m 52s):
I think we have seen enough to say that he doesn't tend to do those things organically or just on his own, but that if there is enough pressure from the west that perhaps he might, but we don't see really from the western countries such such a pressure towards Turkey. Turkey is too important for them in other national security priorities. For example, when it comes to Turkey's relations with United States, Washington considers anchor as a valuable NATO ally and an important player when it comes to Ukraine war.

5 (24m 35s):
Are we going to see President Biden put pressure on President Erdogan so that he would improve his country's human rights track record to the extent that their cooperation perhaps on Ukraine war or overall bilateral relation is going to be put at risk? He's not going to do that. We have not seen Biden administration prioritize human rights advocacy. So it's hard to imagine that Erdogan would change course if he secures the the second round because it's, it's just going to be a, a stamp of approval from his people that he's doing everything right.

1 (25m 29s):
Pook of Reuters. Today's show was produced by Halima Shaw and edited by Amino Saddi. It was engineered by Michael Rayfield and it was fact checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Noelle King, it's today explained.