0 (0s):
Two months ago, standing together with her wife Shell in the Oval Office. I spoke with Britney Griner.

1 (7s):
Big news for Britney today.

0 (8s):
She's safe. She's on a plane. She's on her way home. After months of being unjustly detained in Russia, held under intolerable circumstances, Britney will soon be back in the arms of her loved ones and, and she should have been there all along.

1 (24s):
What President Biden did not mention Thursday morning was who the United States had to give up to get Griner back the merchant of death.

2 (34s):
These are hard deals. Victor Boot is a real horrible criminal. Britney Griner Paul wheen they're innocent Americans. So when you do these trades, they're uncomfortable trades.

1 (44s):
One of the greatest athletes alive for one of the most notorious arms dealers in history. In the wake of this historic prisoner swap, we're revisiting a today explained episode from August on the Merchant of Death Victor Boot

2 (1m 0s):
Today.

1 (1m 7s):
So let's just get right out the gate with this question. Victor Boot for Britney Griner Fair Trade.

3 (1m 14s):
I don't think it's a fair trade, but I think it's a necessary trade. I think that Victor has actual blood on his hands from many conflicts and has done horrendous things or empowered people to do horrendous things for the years. He was trafficking and weapons to Charles Taylor and Liberia, the R U f and Sierra Leone, Lauren Cab, and Democratic Republic of Congo, the Northern Alliance, then the Taliban and Afghanistan. So there's nothing fair about it in terms of absolute justice, but I do think that he is not in a position to wreak a lot more havoc in his life. And I think Britney Griner is in significant danger in Russia because of her sexual orientation, because of who she is and because of the prize that the Russians have in in her that it's worth the trade at this point.

3 (1m 60s):
To bring her back,

1 (2m 1s):
This is Douglas Farra. He's the co-author of Merchant of Death, money, guns, planes, and The Man Who Makes War Possible. It's the definitive book about Victor Boot. It came out a few years after Lord of War, which is the definitive movie about Victor Boot, in which a Victor Boot type arms dealer is played by Nicholas Cage. We assume by this point you're familiar with Britney Griner, one of the greatest basketball players alive. But in case you've never seen the movie or haven't yet read Douglas's book, we asked him to tell us about Victor Boot.

3 (2m 33s):
Victor Boot came out of the Soviet intelligence structures. He was working in Africa as a young man, late twenties, early thirties. When the wall goes down,

4 (2m 44s):
Thousands and thousands of West Germans come to make the point that the wall has suddenly become

3 (2m 49s):
Irrelevant. And he has this incredible bolt of lightning moment, road to Damascus moment where he realizes that there are all of these aircraft sitting around the former Soviet Union that no one's flying because no one has money for fuel. And there are all of these weapons depots where there are massive amounts of weapons where the guards aren't being paid, where you can buy, you know, boatloads of AK 47 s or Li light anti-tank weapons, or rocket propel grenades, essentially for a song sell

5 (3m 17s):
By the kilo, the secondhand weapons, but they're still okay.

3 (3m 23s):
So he began flying the aircraft to the United Arab Emirates from the United Arab Emirates, set up a distribution hub where he could fly to get the weapons, bring them back, and then start distributing around to the all the wars that were breaking out in in Africa at this point is where he initially got started. Victor began in the late 1990s, 96, 97, 98,

7 (3m 47s):
Bowed interwove his arms trafficking empire with a seemingly innocuous logistics business. His clients included rebel groups and militias from Congo to Angola and Liberia in Afghanistan. He sold guns to Islamist Taliban insurgents under their foes in the pro Western Northern

3 (4m 4s):
Alliance. It could have started earlier. No one knew who he was for a long time.

8 (4m 8s):
By the late 1990s, boot was a legend in the shadowy world of illicit arms dealing so elusive that the only two pictures that surfaced of him back then were taken without boots knowledge by a Belgian photographer.

3 (4m 21s):
I was hearing as a reporter the name Victor, delivering weapons, the Brits, the un. Other people had picked up that there was somebody supplying these weapons, but I don't think anybody really knew until the British parliamentarian stood up in British parliament and called him the Merchant of Death and publicly identified him. That was the first sort of coming out of Victor Boot as a public figure at that point.

1 (4m 53s):
What makes him the merchant of death? It's such a incredible, powerful and, and horrifying title. Was he wildly successful in comparison to other arms dealers around the world?

3 (5m 8s):
Oh, without question.

9 (5m 9s):
He could move this stuff and drop it with pinpoint accuracy to any desert, to any jungle, to any other remote place in the world, right into the hands of what I refer to as the popery of global scum.

3 (5m 23s):
Many people could sell you lots of AK 47 s across Africa. I was living there in the times of the war and covering the wars. It wasn't hard to acquire crappy old Soviet weapons. It wasn't hard to acquire a few hand grenades. But what Victor boot brought to the table was the ability to deliver attack helicopters, deliver anti-tank weapons that could be fired through entire villages and burn a village down with one shot. And the fact that you could bring in high caliber machine guns, rocket propel grenades, no one else could do that.

10 (5m 55s):
After the wall came down, $32 billion worth of arms were stolen and resold from Ukraine alone, one of the greatest heists of the 20th century, the primary market was Africa. 11 major conflicts involving 32 countries in less than a decade, a gun runner's wet dream.

3 (6m 14s):
And so as he built his reputation, both sides of the same conflict would hire him on numerous occasions. So in what was Zen Zaire, you had Muto The dictator had been there a long time being chased out of office by Lorant cab's forces sweeping across the drc. And Victor was selling weapons to both sides. Hmm. And while cab's forces were trying to kill Mato, literally as he was f fleeing the, the country he flew out of the country on Victor Booth's aircraft. So he had armed the people who were trying to shoot down his own airplane and the President. And that's what made him so incredibly successful was that he could do all of that. And one of the questions I asked, and my co-author asked a lot of people, why did both sides tolerate this?

3 (6m 57s):
Why didn't someone kill him? Right? If you're lying at me. And there was like, well, you don't kill the mailman bleak, but he's the one person who could deliver. You just don't kill the mailman. How's like, are you stupid? And I was like, well, maybe I, maybe I am. But that was consistently the answer. He did what he said he would do at the price he said he would do it at, and that made him unusually successful.

1 (7m 19s):
Who was his supplier this whole time? Is it just Russia?

3 (7m 22s):
It was the entire former Soviet block where all of these arsenals had been abandoned.

10 (7m 29s):
Ukraine wasn't the only former state with an unpaid army in stockpiles of guns. There was Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Belarus, all there for the taking.

3 (7m 41s):
So if someone showed up and paid the commander a thousand dollars and said, I'll take this load of weapons out, thank you very much. Fine. And most of the Soviet era major arsenals had air strips built into their facility so he could land there, load up and fly out. And it was, you know, apparently a relatively easy process.

1 (8m 1s):
It sounds like he did a lot of dirty deeds, especially on the continent of Africa. Does, does his involvement in them play a central role in accelerating the conflict or accelerating the end of the conflict? How important a player is he in these conflicts?

3 (8m 21s):
His ability to supply weapons to some of the worst warlords on the planet was, I think, transformational for those wars. Elevating

8 (8m 28s):
Bloody conflicts from machetes and single shot rifles to

9 (8m 32s):
AK 47 s. Not by the thousands, but by the tens of thousands when

3 (8m 36s):
These wars started, most people had hunting rifles and machetes and they were nasty and they were hellacious. But when you add AK 47 s and light anti-tank weapons and RPGs, obviously the human toll escalates dramatically.

9 (8m 49s):
He transformed these young adolescent warriors into insidious, mindless, maniacally driven killing machines that operated with assembly line efficiencies. Victor boot in, in my eyes, is one of the most dangerous men on the face of the earth, on the face of the earth without a doubt.

1 (9m 18s):
Do we have any idea the amount of people he armed? Do we have any idea how many people his arms may have killed?

3 (9m 26s):
I don't think anyone's ever done that calculation. But if you look at the wars, you have Liberia, you have Charles Taylor, which are, you know, tens of thousands of victims of that war, and neighboring Sierra Leone where they're fighting over weapons in the group supported by Charles Taylor, another tens of thousands. He was in the Angola conflict, arming both sides of that conflict. He was in the Democratic Republic of Congo, arming both sides of that conflict. He then is, was supplying weapons to the Northern Alliance in Afghanistan and then to the Taliban. So I, I mean, I think, you know, easily tens of thousands of people were directly impacted by the weapons that were being supplied by Victor Boot.

1 (10m 3s):
Douglas and I were mostly talking about Africa and the Middle East, but I asked him about something that's often overlooked when people talk about Victor Boot's resume. He was at times an ally to the United States, and Douglass said this is one of the primary reasons he thought this trade should be on the table, whether just or not.

12 (10m 25s):
The most recent case where American officials and American private security firms were colluding with Victor Boot was during the Iraq war.

3 (10m 34s):
In fact, during the Iraq conflict, when hardly anyone would fly supplies to US troops on the ground, Victor Boot flew hundreds of missions for US and British and other forces into a war zone. That was very important to us. And as my co-author Steve Braun documented in the book, American Officers who were making those decisions understood who Victor Boot was. In fact, they publicly acknowledged it at one point, but their trade-off and their conversations with us was, do we let our people on the ground die from lack of ammunition in food because this guy is a criminal? Or do we deal with the criminal and get the people on the ground what they need?

1 (11m 12s):
So how does he end up imprisoned in the United States?

3 (11m 15s):
Initially? There is a arrest warrant put out for him by Interpol, the international police, a red notice for his arrest. He goes back to Moscow

1 (11m 22s):
On on, on what grounds? On what crime?

3 (11m 24s):
Weapons, trafficking and violations of numerous laws in Belgium, primarily where he had had a hub of of operations. Huh. And so he goes back to Moscow 2001, 2002. And then over time, the US Intelligence Services in the British and others who are monitoring him began to pick up clear indications that the FARC rebels in Columbia, who at this time were a major also drug trafficking organization, were trying to make contact with Victor Boot. Hmm. And so they set up a sting operation where they sent in the people who pretended to be far, who had done this successfully in the past operations to present themselves to intermediaries. Victor Boots as FARC convinced Victor Boot that they were in fact FARC and got Victor Boot against long odds to actually travel to a country Thailand.

3 (12m 10s):
They'd had an extradition treated with the United States, which seems, it seemed preposterous when it happened because he was always very cognizant of whether there were extradition treaties or not. For some reason he decided to go to Thailand. And then he said in the meetings with the undercover agents that, you know, he wanted to give them weapons, he hated Americans, he knew the weapons would be used to kill Americans.

1 (12m 31s):
Wow. He said all

13 (12m 33s):
That. Eduardo and Commandante talk about how they want sniper sites for the rifles that they have so that they could quote, start blowing the heads off American pilots boot's. Response immediately is yes,

3 (12m 45s):
They let him run for a while because he was on such a role. And that's what ultimately he's convicted in the US of trying to sell arms to a designated terrorist organization, the FARC, knowing that the weapons could be used to kill Americans. That's what he is ultimately brought down for.

1 (13m 1s):
Do his lawyers present in his defense the fact that the United States did business with him?

3 (13m 6s):
That was raised in the trial, but not as a significant point because the trial focused very narrowly on the events that led to the rest in Thailand.

12 (13m 14s):
Victor Boot wrote to the judge basically saying, look, I've also worked for the US companies. I've flown 140 flights, they've paid me 6 million and so why would you be convicting me?

3 (13m 30s):
You know, the way the case was structured, they didn't charge him with a lot of other stuff. So he's only defending that particular charge related to that particular incident. And so he was convicted

1 (13m 48s):
And he's sentenced to 25 years in a federal prison in Marion, Illinois. When does he start serving that sentence?

3 (13m 56s):
2011.

1 (13m 58s):
Over the course of these 11 years, has Russia ever made any stink about his imprisonment?

3 (14m 5s):
Constantly, yes. From the very beginning they have. They have had their Congress, their Duma has issued numerous declarations asking for his released. Every time us person has been arrested, they've always raised the possibility of an exchange for Victor. So yes, this is certainly not the first time they've raised the issue of trading for Victor

1 (14m 23s):
Boot, but this is the first time they might actually get him back.

3 (14m 28s):
It's the first time we know that the US has actually considered doing anything like that. Yes. I think it's the first time one could say that, that he, he may actually go back.

1 (14m 42s):
You're listening to a conversation with author Douglas Farra that we originally ran on today, explained back in August of this year. We dug it outta the archive. The second we heard heard that Britney Griner was swapped for Victor Boot. Today more on what this trade means for the awkward business of international prisoner swaps in a minute on the program.

14 (15m 8s):
Okay, so I'll open the champagne. So when you're in sommelier school, they teach you that the pop shouldn't be no louder than a nun's fart.

15 (15m 19s):
A pop that's no louder than a nun's fart. That's the sound. That means there's gonna be a celebration

16 (15m 25s):
That's right around the world. December is often party time, and we here at Gastropod are celebrating in style. We've

15 (15m 31s):
Got a two-part special mini-series for you this month with the stories behind two of these special occasion treats, caviar, and of course champagne. Castro

16 (15m 41s):
Butt is the podcast that looks at food through the lens of science and history. So we are going to get to the bottom of why the eggs from a massive dinosaur looking freshwater fish are one of the most expensive foods in the world.

15 (15m 51s):
And why champagne is in a different league to other fizzy wines like Kava and Prosecco.

16 (15m 57s):
We also discover why champagne's bubbles were originally considered a flaw and how to give a sturgeon an ultrasound.

15 (16m 3s):
Come join the party, find gastropod and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

10 (16m 9s):
There are over 550 million firearms in worldwide circulation. That's one firearm for every 12 people on the planet. The only question is how do we arm the other 11

1 (16m 22s):
Today? Explained back with author Douglas Barra, who we spoke to back in August when the news of this trade first hit. That's when I asked him, who concocted this trade? One of the best basketball players who's ever lived for one of the most notorious arms dealers who's ever lived?

3 (16m 39s):
I don't know. And I think I, I, you know, I would like to know, I I remember when, because my co-author and I were talking, he was sending me messages, he was monitoring everything and, and I was traveling and saying, they're talking about Victor Boot now they're talking about Victor for Griner

17 (16m 52s):
In the coming days, I expect to speak with Russian foreign minister Lav Roth for the first time since the war began, I plan to raise an issue that's a top priority for us. The release of Americans, Paul wheen and Britney Griner who'd been wrongfully detained and must be allowed to

3 (17m 7s):
Come home. And I was like, what? He said, that might actually be serious. And I was like, what?

1 (17m 12s):
But Douglass was pretty sure this originated somewhere near the

3 (17m 15s):
Top. I don't know who was behind it on the US side. I think the fact that Secretary Blinken sort of owned it a few days ago clearly shows it was made at a, you know, very senior level. It wasn't some cowboy out there thinking creatively and trying to do something. We

17 (17m 30s):
Put a substantial proposal on the table weeks ago to facilitate their release. Our governments have communicated repeatedly and directly on that proposal. And I'll use the conversation to follow up personally and I hope move us toward a resolution.

1 (17m 44s):
How are we supposed to wrap our heads around how insanely lopsided this, this is your rough estimation, is Victor Boot may be responsible for the deaths of, I don't know, tens of thousands of brown people and Britney Griner maybe smoked some weed once in a while.

3 (18m 2s):
I don't think it's a fair trade. I have gone out of my way in talking about this and in our book. And the other thing is to point out how absolutely horrific what Victor boot did, what he enabled people to do over a period of years. And you talked about, you know, the tens of thousands of deaths, but there are equal a number more of, of rapes. There are that many burned villages. There are that many children who were kidnapped, often forced to kill their own parents, burn their own villages and become child soldiers. So I have no illusions about who Victor Boot was. Mm I my main point is that he's could be up for parole in a couple years anyway.

3 (18m 45s):
Ah-huh. He's no longer, I don't think it gonna be able to function in the world. He helped create at that time. And Britney as a gay woman, well-identified being held in society where at least the upper echelons are extremely anti gay, anti LG B T Q community, that that's a significant risk. And if you can get her out without causing the rest of the world's significant damage, it should be considered. I don't think it's, it's that Victor Boot did anything like Britney Dead. She clearly has done nothing remotely comparable.

1 (19m 25s):
Is there any fear amongst people like yourself who, who who've covered Victor Boot or, or perhaps from the United States government at this point, that Victor Boot could sort of re-arm a and re-up his supply and reestablish himself as a prolific arms dealer?

3 (19m 42s):
I, I think not because I think he was the product of a specific moment in history when everything aligned for the ability to take out weapons in aircraft in a chaotic world. Putin in Russia no longer precise over a chaotic world. He has everything extremely regimented. Everything that Victor Boot was doing with Taliban, with the Northern Alliance with Charles to, was predicated on a personal trust between him and those leaders. You can't just walk into places and start selling weapons and doing those things. All of those networks have disappeared. Those people are no longer engaged. He has none of those contacts left.

1 (20m 15s):
I asked Douglas if a trade like this encourages more detainments of, of big famous Americans, is someone gonna kidnap LeBron or Nick Cage the next time they're in unfriendly territory?

3 (20m 29s):
I think that's a very real concern. And I do not minimize that.

18 (20m 32s):
I believe we're sending the message that it is good business to deal in the, the capturing kidnapping, detaining of American citizens. I just don't think this is the right way to go about

3 (20m 44s):
It. My basic premise with Russia is that they are so far off the rails in regard to international law and human rights and doing, they're gonna grab whoever they're gonna grab, whether there's a trade or not. They're operating now in their own logic, which is why they invaded Ukraine and have done all these things. I do think the question about other countries, particularly China, because they're a big country and can do it, may give this pause. And I think that that is something that has to be considered and it has to be considered by people who want to travel to these areas as well. I mean, I don't, I don't think anybody in the right mind right now would wanna travel to Russia as a basketball player or a tourist because yeah, the risk is too high.

3 (21m 25s):
But I don't think that will change if they give Britney back, you know, I don't think that that basic equation will change.

1 (21m 30s):
Swapping prisoners of course isn't a new practice. We, we even saw one earlier this year between Russia and the United States and we covered on the show with, with Trevor Reid. Is it ever even, are these trades ever sort of comparable crimes or suspected crimes or accusations or whatever it might be?

3 (21m 50s):
No, I mean there they really aren't. If you look, you know, you have the Palestinian Israeli swaps all the time where you get hundreds of people outta prison in exchange for three students numerically. It may not, it may not be equal. But I think again, in situations like that, you look at the preponderance of what brings the most good to the most people.

2 (22m 8s):
At the end of the day, you have to calculate our Americans better off and their security better off by doing the trade than not. But ultimately the president of the United States has to make that decision. And I think in this case it's the right decision.

3 (22m 23s):
But I don't think you can look at it in terms of absolute fairness because in this case it is horrendously unfair.

1 (22m 30s):
Do do you think there's something that, that these sort of international prisoners swaps teaches us about how the world works?

3 (22m 40s):
Well, I think it shows that every country has specific interests that it wants to protect and defend. And I think one of the things I would like to think about with the United States in this particular case is we are willing to show compassion and a level of mercy that Russia would never be able to share in a similar situation. I don't think it makes us necessarily morally superior, but our anything like that. But I think that being able to show compassion, especially when a sentence has been served, Victor Buss been in for 11 years. He was actually held since 2008 in really crappy conditions in Thailand.

3 (23m 20s):
So he has those three years added onto it. So I think that the sum of what he has paid, if he stays in prison here and gets out in two years, if we can just do it now and get Britney back and save her life in a way. And I think to me, that is an act of mercy for Victor and an act of compassion for Britney

1 (23m 42s):
Douglas Farra is one of the authors of merchant, merchant of death, money, guns, planes, and the man who makes war possible. We spoke back in August of this year. President Biden said this morning that Britney Griner would be home within 24 hours, but Paul wheen remains detained in Russia.

0 (23m 60s):
Sadly, for totally illegitimate reasons, Russia is treating Paul's case differently than Britney's. And while we have not yet succeeded in securing Paul's release, we are not giving up. We will never give up.

1 (24m 12s):
Our show today was produced by Hottie Modi, edited by Matthew Collette, fact checked by Laura Bullard and Victoria Dominguez and mixed by Paul Robert Mosey. We'll use some tape from 60 Minutes. Thanks. 60 minutes. I'm Sean Ramas firm. This is today. Explain.