3 (12s):
They're these two cruise ships that give us two very different and very scary glimpses into how Corona virus is spreading in the world right now. You've heard of The Diamond Princess from Princess Cruises. That's the one off the coast of Japan were almost everyone's stuck on the ship. And now this ship has the biggest outbreak of coronavirus outside of mainland China, then they're shipped to the Western am from Holland America after trying to dock in five other countries and being turned away the westward and finally anchored in Cambodia and Disembarked almost as soon as that happened one of its passengers an American tested positive for Coronavirus. Now there is this scrambled to find everyone who was on the ship and track down every single person.

3 (55s):
They've interacted with since today on the show. We're going to take a closer. Look at how coronavirus was handled on each of these ships and all the related ethical moral and scientific concerns because the world has never quite seen this a brand new. New unfamiliar virus spreading on cruise ships and now probably on land because of cruise ships. We're going to start with the Diamond Princess. Julia balloons has been covering it for Vox.

2 (1m 27s):
So it's a luxury Cruise liner That was supposed to go on this two-week Journey around East Asia and 3,700 people on the ship a thousand of them our crew and the passengers and the crew pale from countries all over the world. So, Some of the passengers are from Canada Australia the US Japan Britain and the crew members also come from many different places the Philippines India. So it's this ship with people from all over the

3 (1m 56s):
world. And when was the virus first detected on the Diamond Princess, when did they realize they had coronavirus on the cruise?

2 (2m 4s):
So an 80 year old passenger? He got off the ship in Hong Kong and a few days later on February 1st. He tested positive. Of for the virus and that's what set off this massive Public Health

1 (2m 15s):
experiment.

3 (2m 18s):
So what does the crews do once they figure out they got coronavirus on board

2 (2m 22s):
they decide to basically quarantine everyone. So by February 4th, the remaining 37 hundred passengers and crew are just asked to stay on the ship under quarantine orders and the ship's been docked in Yokohama Japan a port city in Japan ever since

3 (2m 38s):
hmm who makes the decision to quarantine the whole Ship and keep it in this port city of Yokohama Japan

2 (2m 45s):
yet. The the decision was made by the Japanese government and officially their idea was basically like let's keep these people who are potentially sick on this boat and keep the virus from spreading on land and this is especially important in Japan right now considering they're about to host the Summer Olympics in Tokyo and July so they have this objective to keep the virus. virus outside of Japan on the

3 (3m 14s):
ship And the numbers keep growing. I mean there is one case and now I mean as of Monday morning, there's like 542 cases on board.

2 (3m 26s):
It's the largest outbreak right now outside of mainland China. And so the people who have tested positive for the virus have been allowed to leave the ship for treatment in Japan and the rest have remained on board and they're supposed to be there until at least February

3 (3m 42s):
19th, but wasn't there some situations this weekend? We're A bunch of Americans were allowed to leave what exactly happened there?

2 (3m 49s):
Yeah. So so the American government seem to be deliberating about what to do about this cruise ship and over the weekend. They announced that the situation on board had escalated and they wanted to get Americans off the cruise ship. So those who wanted to be evacuated and flowing back to the US could and whoever decided to stay on the cruise ship would have to basically remain there until the CDC the Centers for Disease. He's controlling the u.s. Decides what to do with them. So on Sunday this group of Americans was flown back to the US and just as they were leaving so after they got off the cruise ship and they were ready to leave 14 of them tested positive for the

3 (4m 30s):
virus. So Americans were allowed to leave irrespective of whether or not they had the virus. They were just saying any America on board can leave and we'll figure out whether you have the virus once you get off the boat.

2 (4m 42s):
Well, first the government said that those who tested positive for the virus should stay in Japan for treatment, but apparently this group of 14 weren't showing symptoms and they made the decision to just let them go and the state department has said that on this flight. They're also being quarantined from the other passengers and they're being monitored for symptoms. But how well now this phase of the trip will go. I'm not sure either. It's a respiratory

3 (5m 8s):
virus what's supposed to happen to these Americans once They're Stateside.

2 (5m 13s):
Another quarantine two weeks at Travis Air Force Base in California or Lackland Air Force Base near San Antonio,

1 (5m 20s):
Texas

3 (5m 27s):
and just to reiterate here. We already know that some of these people definitely have coronavirus and may have even spread it to the other people who didn't while being evacuated from the ship.

2 (5m 38s):
So on the flight, I assume like CDC has completely state-of-the-art techniques for keeping infectious diseases under control and the absolutely world-class. So I assume that they're taking precautions, but they seem to have been put in a really difficult position with these people testing positive for the virus that just as they're about to evacuate and so how well they're able to control the spread of the virus on the flight. I don't know and then at the same time who knows how many people this group of 14 were exposed? During their trip and whether they've also spread the virus to other people along the

1 (6m 16s):
way

3 (6m 20s):
so we have no idea how many people that this group of people may have infected but we do know that they're far far away from this ship now did the Americans receive some sort of special treatment here? Why is it that just one country is evacuating its citizens off of the ship

2 (6m 35s):
America has this incredible tradition of pulling its citizens out of kind of extraordinary circumstances in many. Any different places around the world often faster than other countries and probably has something to do with just the resources. They're able to Marshal but Canada and Hong Kong are also trying to evacuate their citizens and the Philippines is working on the same thing for crew members from the Philippines. So we might be hearing more in the coming

1 (7m 1s):
days.

3 (7m 4s):
What's life aboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship like for those who remain

2 (7m 10s):
so the people on the cruise ship have been under quarantine. Now for almost two weeks. They've been asked to basically stay in their rooms. They've been given extra entertainment on TV and newspapers and whatnot. They're asked to wear masks and only walk on the deck for a couple of minutes at a time and when they are on the deck to keep a distance from the other passengers and driving teeth are meals in their rooms and the Testing thing now is that because of social media people have been able to broadcast what their experiences have been like and I think as the case toll mounted you kind of see this increasing anxiety and worry about basically. What is hypochondriacs worst nightmare, you're sort of stuck.

2 (7m 52s):
You can't move and you know that this virus is swirling around

1 (7m 56s):
you. We got reading we've got movies to watch. I'm just glad that we are together as a family. I know some other families who because they've got separate rooms with kids aren't able to see their kids. Health-wise were good. We take our temperatures a couple times a day, they delivered thermometers and they've told us what they're worried about. Lots of people went off today lots more doctors came on and I get more upset every day because the dumpers of victims go up every day, you know, we feel like we're sitting ducks here.

1 (8m 48s):
We have not eaten since 7:00 p.m. Last night all the services on board the ship including food have been stopped because the Source of the virus has not been determined and they now think it could be the food that is spreading it. If I do not receive Food soon, I will be in a diabetic coma and then it'll make real news won't it, but it'll be to Blackie late. I've never felt less loved by my home country and right now.

1 (9m 28s):
Can I just tell you UK it feels that we have been forgotten that you don't really care about us and that you're actually not wanting us to come home. That's how it feels. This is going to be my final time at begging you to get us off ASAP more with Julia in a minute.

3 (10m 14s):
This episode of today explained was brought to you with support from the people over at Native. That's the company making deodorant that and I'm quoting here kind to those pits. So a lot of deer runs out. There are unkind to those pits like some contain aluminum which basically plugs up those pits and nothing gets out of there. And you know, we evolved this way for a reason so you probably want to keep those those pits open natives deodorant is not only aluminum-free it Tulk and paraben free and vegan. So maybe you can eat it. Give it a shot native deodorants is made with ingredients. You've heard of like coconut oil and Shea Butter. Everyone's favorite butter you wear deodorant every day, maybe maybe not but if you do you should probably understand the ingredients that are in your deodorant and natives happy to share don't think you're going to be sacrificing performance.

3 (11m 0s):
When you get the native deodorant native keeps you smelling fresh all day with like something like ten great smelling sense. I wish I had the list in front of me. Native is also helping you take care of those Chompers to they got new toothpaste. Check it out. You get 20% off your first Native purchase. When you go to Native deodorants.com and use the promo code explained it check out that his native deodorant.com promo code explained. Thanks native. Hello very quickly. I would like to tell you about one of my favorite websites. It's called eater whenever I'm going to a new City and I want to find out what that City's best restaurants might be or their cheapest restaurants or their best pizza.

3 (11m 45s):
I just go to eater I Google like, you know, best restaurants eater, Alabama. That's not a city. I know that I know that anyway, either also makes a TV show. It's called No passport required and the second season is out now. It's on PBS. The shows hosted by a chef named Marcus Samuelsson. You might know him. If you ever been to a spot in Harlem called the Red Rooster no passport required celebrates immigrant communities across the United States and they're very important contributions to their City's food scenes, Los Angeles is huge Armenian Community the West African expatriates in Houston. We've got Italian Americans and Billy the Chinese American community in Vegas.

3 (12m 27s):
We've got all sorts of portuguese-speaking cultures and Boston from from Brazil to Cape Verde to Portugal itself. Check it out right now. No passport required season two was on PBS weekly at 9/8 Central on Mondays or stream the entire season now at pbs.org / no pass

1 (12m 44s):
required.

3 (12m 55s):
Julia let's talk about this other ship to Westar. Damn. This is a Holland America cruise line. What's the story with this one?

2 (13m 2s):
The episodes another luxury Cruise liner That was supposed to be having an enjoyable trip sailing throughout Asia and they ended up getting caught in the Corona virus cruise ship crosshairs. So will this drama on the Japanese cruise ship was unfolding the Western Dam began to have trouble being accepted at any ports in Asia. So the vessel had been turned away from And Guam the Philippines Taiwan and Thailand over fears. It was carrying someone with the Corona virus, then finally the government of Cambodia decided to let them in so on Thursday their ship was finally allowed to dock under the passengers cheered on Friday as they disembark to cruise ship that was stranded at sea for two weeks over virus.

2 (13m 45s):
There's

1 (13m 46s):
we are so happy that Cambogia you have made this possible and can't go home to our family. We're going to the beach now on the shuttle which the shipping Hiding and we're coming back this afternoon. And I think tomorrow will probably leaving we don't have

2 (14m 5s):
much wealth, but we have sympathy to save those stranded on the ship.

3 (14m 11s):
Why did Cambodia agree to take this ship when so many other countries refused it

2 (14m 16s):
it might have been a political decision. So apparently Cambodia and China are political allies. The Cambodian prime minister has been casting doubt about the seriousness of this outbreak. And yeah, it's possible that he opened cambodia's doors to the cruise ship passengers to do China

3 (14m 34s):
favor. So what happens once this ship docks in Cambodia,

2 (14m 39s):
so everyone was cleared of the virus. Were let off the ship and then they kind of dispersed around the world going home or onward with their travels one American who is headed to Malaysia promptly tested positive for the

1 (14m 52s):
virus. The 83 year old American woman was one of a hundred and forty five passengers from the cruise ship on board a flight from CN Oakville in Cambodia to the Malaysian capital on arrival at Kuala Lumpur International Airport both she and her husband were found to have worrisome symptoms tests confirm. The woman was positive for covet 19.

3 (15m 20s):
How did the American passenger test positive for the Corona virus in Malaysia, but not on the boat in

2 (15m 25s):
Cambodia. That's the key question. So the Cambodian government said that everyone was adequately screened and that they took all the necessary precautions. So I guess it's possible. She didn't have enough virus yet in her system to test positive. A few days earlier that that is a possibility. It's also possible that Cambodian officials didn't take the necessary precautions and allowed people to get off the ship creating this problem for many many other countries.

3 (15m 54s):
So we don't yet fully know how thorough cambodia's testing

2 (15m 57s):
was. No, we don't know yet.

3 (16m 2s):
So what is Cambodia Malaysia Holland America? Anyone do once they realized that one person was let off this ship that definitely had coronavirus which means perhaps many more were as well

2 (16m 13s):
up until this point in the outbreak. A lot of effort has been on containing the virus stopping it from spreading on the cruise ships quarantining people keeping them from disembarking in other countries and spreading the virus there. And now with what happened on the western demand this American already. Think positive it feels like we're at a turning

1 (16m 35s):
point

2 (16m 39s):
with every passing day. We've been seeing more and more people test positive for the virus outside of China. So the vast majority of the cases are still in China, but there's this mounting toll in countries around the

1 (16m 50s):
world

3 (16m 53s):
China has reported seventy thousand six hundred thirty five cases of Corbett 19 to who including and 772 Des outside China who has received reports of 694 cases from 25 countries and 3des.

2 (17m 15s):
And now with all these passengers just being let off these ships to travel back around the world potentially carrying the virus with them. We're likely to see that toll outside of China Mount even further. It's this highly contagious respiratory virus and it seems It's doing a very good job of spreading among people and we might be at a point where containing it is

3 (17m 39s):
impossible. It feels like we have these two very distinct case studies here of how to handle coronavirus on a cruise ship one quarantine everyone for a long time to make sure it doesn't get off the boat, but letting it spread on the ship to let people off the Ship Without thoroughly testing them and then we have no idea how far this thing will spread.

2 (18m 4s):
That's right. It's this coronavirus cruise ship conundrum and it just again it gets out how difficult I think it is to In this virus, you know and it also shows we're in this moment of Global Travel and trade hopping on a plane to go to the other side of the world and in that same time period potentially bring a disease with us and you know, you see in real life countries struggling with what to do about this and the Japanese quarantine was far from ideal. So while their intention may have been to keep the virus from spreading among the passengers corn. Feeding them on the ship. These reports have been emerging for the last 10 days to suggest that they didn't do the quarantine properly.

2 (18m 49s):
So for example, there was this Upstairs Downstairs Dynamic kind of a Downton Abbey where you had the crew members downstairs serving the passengers on the upper decks and the passengers upstairs while they were staying in the room and might have been adequately quarantine. There were crew members under the ship who are testing positive for the virus and still working together eating together. Potentially spreading the virus among themselves and then coming upstairs to serve and clean and take care of the ship and potentially spreading it up there. I think what the Japanese case also shows is that the government in Japan valued the health of its citizens over the health of the people on the cruise ship.

2 (19m 31s):
They didn't want the virus spreading in Japan and decided to allow this experiment to play out on the cruise ship and potentially spread the virus there.

3 (19m 41s):
I guess what you're talking about. There are ethical Questions and I guess in both cases the Diamond Princess cruise ship and the Western damn cruise ship. You have serious ethical questions. Was it ethical for Cambodia to let the ship Dock and then let everyone get off the ship. Is it ethical for Japan to make everyone stay on the ship and not disembark and potentially infected Japanese people. Has anyone taken stock of all the ethical questions at play here.

2 (20m 8s):
Yeah. I talked to a researcher who works on these issues and what he said was that quarantines can be really effective for stopping the spread of disease, but they have to be done properly. So you can't quarantine potentially sick people with people who aren't sick and hope for the best which seems like that's what happened in the Japanese case. You have to make sure that people who are sick or who have potentially been exposed or separated from the healthy people. And so yeah, this raises huge ethical questions and it also I think raises diplomatic questions for relations between the u.s. And Japan at the Time will this virus might have caught us off-guard sort of incredible to see all these countries and and businesses scrambling and seemingly, you know unable to mobilize and to have a proper plan to protect public health for years people have been talking about another potential pandemic the danger of another respiratory virus spreading really fast throughout the world.

2 (21m 6s):
We knew this was coming and it's amazing that people including the cruise ship industry. Haven't been ready with Better plans to deal with something like this

3 (21m 16s):
have we learned anything at least from these two cruise ships? Do we learn how this virus can spread from one cabin to another from one passenger to another is it more than just through sneezing and coughing? Is it just breathing do we know anything more than we did a month ago.

2 (21m 34s):
So we already know that cruise ships can be these ideal environments for transmitting diseases and we're seeing here that the virus seems to be highly. Contagious but we don't yet know exactly how the virus spreads and it seems like it could incubate in the body anywhere from two days to 14 days. That's what the CDC is saying now, so we don't know exactly how many people were already sick before the quarantine or how many got sick during the process of the quarantine and hopefully some of the data that comes out of this crazy cruise ship situation is that we learn more about exactly how the virus spreads how it moves from person to person whether it was because being passed through the ventilation system on the ship.

2 (22m 16s):
These are the things that we're going to learn in the coming days and this fundamental question of whether the quarantine created more diseases than it stopped.

3 (22m 32s):
In the meantime. The one lesson we've learned is don't take a

2 (22m 36s):
cruise. No, actually the I talked to one researcher who studies disease spread on cruise ships. And she said she felt that the focus on cruise ships might be a bit artificial that you know, maybe there are outbreaks that are happening like this in small hotels or restaurants that we just don't hear as much about but what we do know from people like hers that these cruise ship seemed to be an ideal environment for disease spread and she actually found that when you have outbreak events on cruise ships when you see a new virus taking off like that. Usually it's a precursor for a much. Much larger outbreak happening on land.

2 (23m 16s):
And so maybe it doesn't mean we're in for something much bigger.

1 (23m 30s):
Julia balloons has been covering this coronavirus for

3 (23m 33s):
Vox since the beginning of the year. You can find and read all of her great work at vox.com. I'm Sean Rama's Forum. This is today explained.