3 (12s):
When I think about unions in America, I think about issues like abortion or gun control, you're either for abortions or you're not you either in favor of gun control or you're really not and you're either in the camp of people who like unions or in the camp of people who think unions are destroying America except for police unions police unions throw a wrench in the ideological divide. Melissa has a good eye you just wrote a piece about police unions for BuzzFeed do Have that wrench in the ideological divide,

1 (45s):
right? That's 100% Correct. It's even difficult and a little bit of a mind Bender. I think even for people within the union movement themselves. So what we have at least in the u.s. In our political landscape is typically we think of Union supporters those people tend to identify more on the ideological left of our political Spectrum will see that you know through our maintenance workers unions through teachers in particularly the represent a larger portion of the Union landscape than ever before and then you have this one particular outlier even within the union movement and that's that of the alphabet soups that sort of make up the various unions representing police.

1 (1m 31s):
And what's crazy about it. Is that the right particularly from you know, Republicans. This is one of the only unions they actually support What we have is a paradox in that Republicans typically are working to weaken unions with the exception of police. Whereas on the left you have a party that's been dedicated to labor and they are actually the ones pushing for reforms particularly when it comes to police.

3 (2m 2s):
Do I want to get into like the politics of police unions more? But before we do that, I kind of just want to get a sense of how these humans work and how they may or may not get. Get in the way of reforms. So just let's start with what a police Union does.

1 (2m 18s):
So on its face a police Union functions very much the way that any other Union would work their primary goal is of course to get the very best deal that they can for their memberships whether that applies to working conditions 2 hours to pay to sick leave all of these things are very much within the confines of what we think of as just a regular Union the things that has really emerged and particularly over I'd say the last two decades and we could talk about the reasons why we're police unions have really departed from their other labor. Brethren is in the sense of their political clout and the police unions themselves and their membership have done a very good job of convincing us that we who are not officers have absolutely no idea how difficult and how stressful All the situations in which they find themselves and by pushing that narrative that we you know as the general population can't understand how difficult their jobs are.

1 (3m 23s):
It's created a culture that says that they are

4 (3m 26s):
unquestionable.

3 (3m 30s):
So how does that situation enable police brutality the kinds of things we've seen this week, you know officers the size of fridges pushing over elderly men and Salt Lake City or or young women in New York City. For pulling down a protesters mask just to pepper spray and while his hands are up or you know, even putting their knees on the back of protesters next just like they did George Floyd.

1 (3m 52s):
It's not really a step too far for the unions and their membership to have sort of taken this notion that our jobs are so hard that do as a population actually shouldn't question what we do because you've never had to show up to a domestic violence call. You don't know what we do. And that sort of culture has permeated and mutated to the point where it now also extends to our jobs are so difficult that you shouldn't question what we do and that's created. What a lot of people say is a culture of impunity and you know, there was a there was a study that was done recently by some researchers out of the University of Chicago that looked at a data set from 1996 to a believe 2015.

1 (4m 44s):
So in 2003, we saw a whole bunch of jurisdictions in Florida join unions and what the researchers out of the University of Chicago found was fascinating and that was that the number of complaints had skyrocketed during that time and their ultimate conclusions were that with the unionization and a lot of Labor protections that it created that there was a culture of impunity That Then

3 (5m 11s):
followed Tell me more about how the contracts police officers have themselves get in the way of police reforms or even firing the officers who have records of brutality.

1 (5m 30s):
I think one of the best examples I can give you actually might be, you know, Derek Chauvin himself what we saw with him is we saw what we think are 17 complaints against

3 (5m 43s):
him.

1 (5m 44s):
17 complaints. Yes, that's what we think and let me tell you why you say that that's what we think because there's another record on a Minneapolis City database that lists 12. This is not unique to Minneapolis in any way for example in the city of Chicago where I've worked extensively. It's very difficult to get an accounting of police complaints because the union contracts and many instances allow for the erasers. Of complaints say why what and then it gets even stranger in the sense that a lot of us who are familiar with policing procedures, you know have looked at the chief firing immediately the four officers who are involved in the gorge Floyd murder and a lot of us can't be sure that that decision by the police chief will actually stick and that's because these unions have created very strong.

1 (6m 44s):
Which prevent the firing of their officers even by the Chiefs

3 (6m 50s):
themselves? Are you saying Derrick show in might get his job back.

1 (6m 53s):
It's not beyond the realm of possibility through an adjudication

3 (6m 58s):
process really totally so these contracts keep the public from knowing exactly how many complaints have been filed against officers. They don't even tell you what the complaint specifically are and then they they have built-in protections that sort of make it really hard to discipline the officers. Is that

1 (7m 20s):
fair? That's 100% correct?

3 (7m 23s):
How did police unions end up with such cushy contracts? It's

1 (7m 26s):
a complicated answer but I sort of throw it into two buckets. There's the first part it sort of the hero narrative, right we go out and handle dangerous situations, which is absolutely true. And so that means that any elected official Official who takes the stance that might quote unquote limits are somehow infringed upon what the police say that they need in order to do their jobs is almost political suicide because nobody you know in political life wants to be seen as obstructing what our Local Heroes need.

1 (8m 11s):
The second bucket is a little bit more Concrete in understand in the sense that a lot of these unions particularly in bigger cities is that these organizations are incredible fundraisers. And so that means that they are contributing quite heavily to candidates who support their agendas who are going to be reliable votes when their contracts come up for ratification again, and so we've seen this for example in San Francisco. There was a public defender by the name of Tressa Bowden. Whoo. Running for the city's district attorney position and he was running on a reformers agenda, you know a lot of you know, he was promoting a lot of the ideas that a lot of the people who are in the streets right now want to see enacted a coalition of police unions from across the state of California Cobble together seven hundred thousand dollars in campaign contributions to oppose his election.

1 (9m 10s):
They were supporting other candidates and they're also running ads against him. M Chester Bowden for context it barely out raised the amount of money that the police unions themselves had raised against him. So the candidate was almost matched dollar-for-dollar by by the Union's

4 (9m 30s):
alloh.

3 (9m 33s):
The Police Officers Association has

1 (9m 35s):
spent about four hundred thousand dollars on TV ads alone against candidate Chase. Abbudin an attorney with San Francisco's Public Defender's Office who they say is Soft on gang members and drunk

3 (9m 46s):
drivers after days of vote counting in a very close race election officials announced their Francisco's new district. Attorney Chase of

1 (9m 53s):
Budin right now. Chesa Boudin is inside El Rio celebrating his victory. There was a very large crowd here. So they're real Financial consequences when it comes to The Ballot Box that you know these unions present and so that's that's definitely something that I think has led to a lot of politicians. really cowering in the face of these police unions

3 (10m 32s):
Moore's Melissa after a break support for the show today comes from caviar not the food consisting of salt cured row of the family acid pain Sarah died, but the service that delivers food to your door, you've heard of it surely everyone wants food delivered to their door these days, right? Well caviar has an app. It's called caviar and they offer a curated list of great local restaurants and more than 25 major American cities and there are a lot of food delivery apps out there sure but Our is different because it's sheesh.

3 (11m 21s):
It's fancy. It's it's the best place to find the smaller local restaurants that perhaps need your support now more than ever and for our listeners caviar is offering $10 off an order of $20 or more right now. All you have to do is put in the offer code explained at checkout. Remember that's $10 off of purchase of $20 or more with the offer code explained download caviar on the app store or Google Play Store and use Is the offer code

1 (11m 49s):
explained? Normally the sponsored read would focus on what all birds does as a business and talk about one of their new products, but there's something much more important happening in our country and around the world right now acknowledging and Justice is not just the kind thing to do. It's the right thing to do as a business. All birds has always stood for the planet and standing for the planet also means standing for its people all birds believes that everyone should be able to enjoy all the Earth has to offer without fearing for their lives because of the color of their skin and while they admit they're not entirely Sure, what the right thing to do is at a time like this all birds knows that just stating support isn't enough.

1 (12m 30s):
They need to take action as a first step. All birds has contributed to organizations like the national movement for black lives and the NAACP legal defense fund to support their efforts. They encourage you to demand change and make your voices heard black lives matter.

3 (12m 50s):
Melissa, I wonder you know, we're policing has always sort of more tied to the political right in this country or did that happen more

1 (12m 58s):
recently. We have always known that Law and Order Athos is very much tied to a conservative ideology. I mean those two things are just married, right? Yeah, but we've seen particularly I'd say since the early 2000s. We started to see a little bit more questioning rising up from The Grass Roots the next thing Is the Obama Administration steps in and they come in with the Department of Justice that is particularly interested in executing police

3 (13m 28s):
reform President Obama's promising change in police departments across the country

1 (13m 33s):
his comments come ahead of too soon to be released reports on the shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson Missouri. Today. I'm here to announce that the Department of Justice has opened an investigation into whether the Chicago Police Department has engaged in a pattern or practice of violations of the Constitution. Constitution or federal law and that really draws the ire of these unions to be scrutinized so deeply and then that happens in tandem with the rise of black lives matter and those two forces are just you know gasoline on that fire and the Union's really really take what we see as a hard right turn at roughly the same amount of time.

3 (14m 12s):
So like everything else that's ever happened to this country. This is Barack Obama's fault.

1 (14m 17s):
Absolutely I mean Brock, That can suit really put it over. The ads are like real men wear blue.

3 (14m 26s):
What did this shift to the right for police unions look like I mean during the Obama years obviously, it wasn't sort of a shift to Donald Trump, but was it was it a shift to Republican candidates at a local level at a state level

1 (14m 40s):
at least during you know, the initial Obama years. It was just voicing their discontent really really loud boisterous levels.

3 (14m 50s):
Look President Barack Obama has been a one-man Wrecking Crew as it relates to safe. Really she's declared war on the police. He's dismantled effective law enforcement with this 21st century task force of emphasizing de-escalation. He's been a criminal perpetrators dream and a nightmare for the American police

1 (15m 10s):
officer. This is also happening at the time of like the explosion of social media, right? It might not be that necessarily that these views have changed so much. It's just that were able to hear them talk to each other in ways that we never have before. And what we've seen, you know, most recently as there was an organization out of Philadelphia called the Plainview project and what they did is these scrapes the data from many of these social media posts from officers and they were able to present some of these conversations. The officers are having with one another that shows, you know images of a big rig driving through protesters in Ferguson and the front is bloodied and it has super imposed images of like you nobody Parts of protesters and a meme that says just drove through Ferguson didn't see a problem there

3 (16m 2s):
check out these social media posts. It's a good day for a choke hold or hope that this piece of s is dealt with by Street Justice or just plain Karma quickly. Hopefully by police gunfire or F. He's Muslim. Well, you can read it how much power do these unions have over the actual day-to-day politics of a given? City or state I mean what influence do they have over City's budget or a state's budget? For example,

1 (16m 35s):
it's sort of the way that the contract negotiations work. End up having a day-to-day influence on everything that we in our communities touch a have told some friends of mine. Just recently that the most influential person in your city. You most likely don't know the name of and that's the union head in your particular City. And that's because police often times are driving the entire city budget discussion

3 (17m 1s):
the entire budget not the police budget, but the entire

1 (17m 4s):
budget the police make up the single biggest line item. On the budget of so many of these municipalities for example in Los Angeles. You see out of a 10 billion dollar budget the police represents a a little over three billion dollars of that particular budget and the mayor is still proposing increases of 7% to that particular budget and it's important to realize that this is happening in the context of a covid economy right where the city of Los Angeles is proposing, you know major furlough Those two most of its other city employees will refusing to touch the budget of not only refusing to touch it as in terms of cutting it but is saying that these seven percent raises that the officers are do is sacred.

1 (17m 53s):
We cannot touch those we see that also in New York where the city budget is going to have to cut educational expenses by 3% Whereas the New York Police Department budget is going to see ahead of points.

3 (18m 9s):
Percent, right. I mean the sort of state of what we saw from healthcare workers and like City hospitals comes to mind. These were people wearing literal garbage bags to protect themselves from covid. And then you see these cops coming out now this week and last week in New York with like world war three style, you know military gear and you're just like well where where is all the money going? I wonder is there like a city that's taken on. lease budgets and one in recent years

1 (18m 43s):
We have one sort of tiny glimmer of hope and that's coming out of Austin, Texas. Austin a few years back became what we think to be the first city to convince its city council to reject a Union contract and that happened through Grassroots efforts in which particularly black Advocates had come to the fore. They attended every city council meeting that they could in which this was going to be addressed to make sure that the city council So new but the community wanted real reform and they finally convinced their city councillors that there were enough people watching and who were willing to take them to task at The Ballot Box if they didn't actually include more reform and they won there is a Grassroots effort called campaign 0 thats collecting and coding a lot of these police contracts so that people in various communities can go back and say hey, this is what we want.

1 (19m 42s):
We know this is what you're Our contract includes and this is unacceptable to us as a community. Strangely. I've received more reader mail on this story than almost any I've written, you know in the two decades. I've been a reporter and I think that that's because police contracts are a tangible way to be able to sort of Channel this energy about systemic racism into concrete action. So if somebody in a community were to ask me what would you do? Of the things that's obvious is these police contracts are still public record. So anybody can log online in most municipalities and get a copy you can see when those contracts expire and you can look at the major provisions and see like how do they account for discipline?

1 (20m 31s):
How are they paid do they get to choose their own assignments, which has been a major issue in Minnesota. For example, I think the average citizen is able to sort of decipher. What's reasonable. What's

4 (20m 42s):
not

3 (20m 59s):
Melissa Segura is a fellow at the new America and a reporter at BuzzFeed news. You can find her piece on police unions at buzzfeed.com. It's titled. There's one big reason why police brutality is so common in the US and that's the police unions which are linked with it at our Twitter at today underscore explained. You can find it there too. I'm Sean Rama's Forum its today explained.