1 (5s):
California Senator Dianne Feinstein was that a Memorial service for a friend named Anne Holstead.

2 (11s):
So this took place last summer. She and Halston knew each other. A long time were very close. She stood up to give some remarks. She accidentally calls Pelosi, the Senate majority leader, and then corrects herself and jokes about promoting Pelosi to Senate. Because of course he sits in the house that wasn't the moment that was striking. However, She never actually mentioned Halstad, the deceased person who they were all there to memorialize A ripple, went through the crowd. People were sort of a bit in disbelief.

1 (50s):
What happens when age catches up with our elected leaders? That's on today explained I'm Noel king Tall Kopin is on the Washington DC beat for the San Francisco Chronicle that Senator Dianne Feinstein's hometown paper. And she recently wrote a deeply sourced report in which colleagues of Feinstein say she's different tall, what's going on?

2 (1m 22s):
What was brought to our attention? We feel like is significantly more than simply a little bit of slowing down and really a pattern of short-term memory issues that exceed what might be ascribed to perhaps a little forgetfulness. So for example, we spoke with the California democratic member of Congress who said that they somewhat recently had a multi hour long interaction with the Senator. And this is a member of Congress who has known the Senator for over a decade. And they were sort of expecting sort of a detailed, rigorous policy debate because that's what she always was sort of up for.

2 (2m 5s):
And not only did that, not take place, but they had to introduce themselves to the Senator and then do so again, multiple times over the course of the interaction, because she was seemingly unable to recall parts of the conversation that had already happened in the span of this interaction. And we spoke with two senators who have served with her for some time who say they get the sense that she can't always place them when they encounter each other. We spoke with Senate colleagues, the California democratic member of Congress, and three former staff members of the Senator who all have seen very up close what the situation is.

2 (2m 47s):
And we're in agreement on their assessments that they do not believe that she's really up to the job anymore. The job that includes representing nearly 40 million people in California, it was reporting that we just felt we couldn't ignore.

1 (3m 4s):
How has Diane Feinstein made her mark in the Senate up to this point?

2 (3m 8s):
Well, there's no denying that, that she has had a tremendous career and not just in the Senate. I mean, going back in San Francisco politics, breaking barriers as a mayor of San Francisco,

4 (3m 20s):
This is the body of supervisor Harvey milk because it was taken from city hall. Her

2 (3m 24s):
Role in the assassination of Harvey milk,

4 (3m 27s):
The president of the board of supervisors, Diane Feinstein spoke

5 (3m 31s):
Both mayor Moscone and supervisor Harvey milk have been shot and killed.

2 (3m 40s):
She was a path breaker for so long. One of the first women along with Barbara boxer ever to represent the Senate for California

6 (3m 48s):
And that you will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office upon what you're about to enter. So help you God.

2 (3m 59s):
And then in the Senate, I mean, she's worked and been a leader on so many issues, including gun violence prevention. She has been a leader on the Senate judiciary committee. She served on the Senate intelligence committee. She still serves on both of those committees.

8 (4m 13s):
Port released today, examines the CIA secret overseas detention of at least 119 individuals and the use of coercive interrogation techniques in some cases, amounting to torture

2 (4m 30s):
And every single one of the conversations that I had for this piece was painful. And the people I spoke with really felt awful about having to even have these conversations because they respect and Revere her so much. And many of them are voicing these concerns in part because they wish that she could have a dignified cap to her career and not be remembered for a public embarrassment. They want her to be remembered for this legendary trajectory in politics.

1 (5m 1s):
You asked house speaker, Nancy Pelosi for comment. She is both a colleague and a friend of Feinstein's. They're both from the bay area. How did she respond?

2 (5m 9s):
She defended Senator Feinstein and, you know, spoke about her record for, in delivering for the people of California called her tireless. She used the word unconscionable to describe which she characterized as attacks. We don't believe them to be attacks. The people speaking with us were voicing concerns and very specific details in interactions. But speaker Pelosi called it unconscionable for these to be raised at this time in particular, Senator Feinstein lost her husband in February. He passed after a long illness,

9 (5m 41s):
Senator Feinstein issued a statement saying my heart is broken today. My husband was my partner and best friend for more than 40 years, I am going to miss him terribly

2 (5m 51s):
While our reporting absolutely takes into account. The sad situation with her husband, the reporting also indicates that these issues predate that situation. And while certainly stress and grief can exacerbate things. And we don't have the ability to say to what degree that the situation with her husband does not explain the episodes that we were told about in the piece

10 (6m 18s):
And a statement to Casey IRA tonight. The Senator wrote in part, while I have focused for much of the past year on my husband's health and ultimate passing, I have remained committed to achieving results. And I'd put my record up against anyone's

1 (6m 34s):
Paul. If Senator Feinstein is struggling with memory loss to such a degree, how is she getting her job done well enough to keep being reelected?

2 (6m 43s):
She was last reelected in 2018. She has the right to serve through the end of her term in 2024, you know, in the Senate, she's just over halfway through her six year term in 2018. She faced her first real challenge in a long time from a Democrat, Kevin de Leon. He came close to defeating her, but she has had a storied career. She has a very strong reputation in California. It was remarkable that he came so close to defeating her, but there was one sort of candidate forum. And she got through that without any major slip-ups or anything of the sort and won her seat again.

2 (7m 26s):
And I don't think anyone on Capitol hill would deny that she has a very experienced and skilled staff, but especially the former staffers I spoke with said, it's increasingly difficult for that office to operate at full strength because she does need to sign off on things. And she does need to understand everything they want to put out every letter. They want to send every statement. Every bill they want to sign on to. And the former staffers I spoke with described an increasingly difficult time doing that because they would brief her on something. And then perhaps the next day she wouldn't remember, or she couldn't follow complex threads. And the staff at least believed it was in part because of these issues.

2 (8m 8s):
And not because it was too complicated to be understood.

1 (8m 12s):
Does anyone know if she plans to run again? When this term is up?

2 (8m 16s):
We don't know. At this time she has filed paperwork with the FEC, the federal elections commission, to be able to continue having a political operation. It's sort of a formality. It doesn't necessarily commit her to running. So at this time she has not made any declarations, but she has also not foreclosed the possibility of running again,

1 (8m 41s):
If it's true that Senator Feinstein can't do her job anymore. Like, like in the present tense. Yeah. Is there anything that can be done about it?

2 (8m 50s):
There's sort of the realistic answer and the technical answer. Technically the Senate has a process for expelling a member. It requires a vote of the other members of the Senate. Historically it has pretty much only been used in cases of basically treason. You know, many of the expulsions took place around the civil war with Confederate sympathizers. It would take something tremendous to see the Senate resort to that. And I believe it's a two thirds vote that it's the threshold of that. So realistically, no, there's, there's virtually nothing that can be done. It's up to her. Whether she wants to finish her term,

1 (9m 30s):
Your report came out, it got a lot of attention and reporters get complaints. That's fair. We all know what happens. We've all experienced it. But there was one complaint in particular that seemed to be recurring. It is ageist. It is possibly even sexist to examine an 88 year old senator's mental fitness, especially when president Joe Biden, Senator Mitch McConnell, representative Jim Cliburn are still doing their jobs. What do you think

2 (9m 55s):
I interact with plenty of politicians in their eighties on a regular basis who are sharp as a attack. If what was described to me about Senator Feinstein was described to me about someone in their sixties or fifties or any age, it would be a matter of concern and of importance to report

11 (10m 12s):
Strom Thurmond was the first person elected to the us Senate as a write-in candidate. And he holds the record for the longest Senate speech over 24 hours.

2 (10m 21s):
There are stories of male politicians who by some accounts had almost no idea what was going on in the Senate, who were allowed to be sort of propped up and carry on.

12 (10m 35s):
I have been here for about 42 years and every day, new challenges. I like challenges.

2 (10m 47s):
I was not present for any deference that might've been given to them. Now I completely respect the conversation that is happening about these questions. And one of the things that has been striking to me is how many readers have reached out to me with a very personal connection to the piece. Many folks have written me about difficult conversations they've had to have in their families and with loved ones about in their instances, diagnosed conditions. And they wrote to me just with how much, what we reported resonated with them.

1 (11m 22s):
You have covered Washington for a long time. Okay. Do you know why our lawmakers in this country are so much older than the median age, even elderly in general,

2 (11m 36s):
For one, there's a lot of power in incumbency. You know, once you're in, there's some very institutional privileges, including, you know, it's very political nerd, but it's called Frank male. So there's an ability of an office holder to use government resources, to send communications to their constituents, which is theoretically supposed to be to keep them informed of what's happening in Washington. But You know, it keeps your name front and center. So as a politician, you get to have events in your district, touting what the government has delivered for people. And any time you're a challenger to a sitting politician, you come from the underdog place.

2 (12m 24s):
There are a lot of factors. I think both in terms of the institutional inertia that keeps people in office for a very long time. If they want to be an office, it's also a fundraising benefit to, you know, be an office and have lobbyists supporting you in all kinds of institutional factors. And then I think there's a whole host of sort of personal factors in terms of who actually runs for these positions and when it's a very complex thing. But certainly we see that there is a big age discrepancy in terms of who is sitting in the highest positions of power and where the average American is in their lives.

3 (13m 23s):
Yeah,

1 (13m 23s):
Lately many of us have rediscovered a forgotten pastime jigsaw puzzles. There's the shaking of the pieces in their box. The satisfying click as pieces snap into place pinpointing the source of cancer in a patient can be like trying to find that one elusive puzzle piece in a box of mini

13 (13m 45s):
Each patient is unique in their own way.

1 (13m 47s):
Gregory Freiburg, a leader on the global medical affairs team at Amgen says that personalized medicine starts with knowing what you're dealing with on a molecular level.

13 (13m 58s):
And of course, just like a puzzle. If you're missing pieces, it's hard to see that forest through the trees

1 (14m 3s):
Take lung cancer, which accounts for almost 25% of us cancer deaths each year, it can be caused by any number of different protein mutations. One of the most common is K Raz G 12 C, which is found in 13% of patients with non-small cell lung cancer. This is where biomarker testing comes in.

14 (14m 22s):
There are ways today to be able to specify which exact mutation is associated with the lung cancer that a patient might have.

1 (14m 31s):
Margaret Shue Moyer is vice-president of research at Amgen.

14 (14m 35s):
Biomarker testing may offer specific treatment

13 (14m 39s):
Receiving the biomarker information is like filling in the missing piece to a puzzle

1 (14m 45s):
To learn more about biomarker testing and how Amgen has taken on the K Raz challenge. Visit amgen.com/no K rats

16 (14m 58s):
It's earth month here at box. So unexplainable is exploring some of the most fascinating mysteries of the ocean.

17 (15m 9s):
It's like interstellar travel while staying here on this planet, it

5 (15m 13s):
Was a fireworks display.

17 (15m 15s):
The closest we can come to that kind of alien contact moments,

5 (15m 20s):
A movement you make triggers, flashes all around you. These vortices of neon blue liquid light would just shoot up and mixed in would be blowing blew embers.

17 (15m 33s):
How much more different can you get from our way of being,

16 (15m 36s):
If you want to hear about everything from underwater light shows to a lost city of octopuses, subscribe to unexplainable, new episodes, every Wednesday, wherever you get your podcasts

5 (15m 48s):
Exploring is better than sex. All the thrill and none of the baggage

1 (15m 59s):
It's today explained I'm new king. There is a minimum age for us senators. It's 30, a 30 year old named Joe Biden was sworn into the Senate. Once upon a time today, the youngest us Senator is 35. We see you, Jon Ossoff, Shauna Shamez is a professor of political science at Rutgers. She wondered why the young people around her seemed put off by the idea of running for office. So she asked her about 800 of them and then wrote a book called out of the running. Why millennials reject political careers?

18 (16m 29s):
The age kind of increase is not itself about age. I think it is a factor of several other bad trends that I dislike about American politics, particularly in terms of how we finance campaigns. We are the only advanced post-industrial democracy to make individual candidates create brand new organizations, to run every single time to raise all of their own money, to raise money from weird shadowy groups that have, you know, no connection to political parties, but also we prioritize incumbents, right?

18 (17m 10s):
So that we have incredible amounts of partisan gerrymandering that has only been increasing in the past two decades to protect incumbents incumbents. If they aren't old to start with, certainly grow old in office. And then we rewards in York city, especially in the Senate. People know the longer you're in office. The more you can get done while you're there because it's a seniority system. So it's like all of these things together. This is a recipe for kind of attracting and then keeping older people in office

1 (17m 47s):
Define a word for me, if you would, what is a gerontocracy

18 (17m 51s):
Gerontocracy is literally ruled by the old, and it's kind of like a plutocracy would be ruled by the rich or theocracy would be ruled by religious leaders. Democracy is ruled by the people.

1 (18m 9s):
Do you think the United States runs the risk of becoming a gerontocracy or is one already?

18 (18m 14s):
If you look at the demographics, you could certainly make a case that we're already a gerontocracy the most represented group in Congress is between 60 and 69. That's kind of where the median is after that. The most represented group is 50 to 59. There's very few under forties at all. There's none in the Senate. The leadership is even older on average. And the average for the U S population is 47. So that's a serious discrepancy.

1 (18m 46s):
Median is even younger. I think, I think the median is closer in age to me, 39 or 40,

18 (18m 50s):
Right?

1 (18m 53s):
So you began looking into why millennials weren't running for public office. What was the data that you were looking at that made you think? Huh? This is a real thing.

18 (19m 5s):
What I did is survey about 800 of these law and policy school students who I thought should have been interested in running the sample was elite law and policy school students in the Boston area. I looked at Harvard law school, Harvard Kennedy school students. And then, because I did not want it to be just a Harvard specific project. I had to check by also recruiting and testing students from Suffolk law school, Suffolk law school is the institution that sent the most of its graduates into state level politics. Only about 15% of this, you know, highly political and policy minded sample wanted to run for office.

1 (19m 49s):
And when you asked them why, when you asked the other 85%, why don't you want to run for office? What did they tell you?

18 (19m 57s):
The most immediate finding, which was repeated across almost everybody I talked to was about the role of money in campaigns. And that had to do with two different factors. I talk about it in my book as the EQ factors of campaigns, right? I had one interviewee who told me, I don't even like to take 40 bucks from my dad. You know, when he puts me back on the bus to go to law school, I don't like to take money from people. Cause then I feel indebted. Several people use the word corrupt because even though the Supreme court has said, money is speech and corporations are people, right? It feels like legal corruption.

18 (20m 37s):
If you're an idealistic young person looking at the world, you think maybe that's not how I want it to work. And then there's the more instrumental secondary part, which is also, I can't get anything done because you could imagine working with a lot of good intention, people and not getting anything done could be frustrating. And that's one kind of deterrent, but working with people who maybe you don't respect and also through a process that you don't like doing whereabouts 70% of your time is fundraising, which you don't like doing. And that feels icky. That's separate from not being able to get anything done. Those are two separate deterrents for just

16 (21m 22s):
Distrustful of politicians and institutions. Many millennials turn to grassroots movements, black lives matter, demonstrations, boycotts and climate change protests.

18 (21m 33s):
I cannot tell you how many of the interviewees I talked to said, oh, I'd love to do a career in politics. That's not being the politician, right? I like to do the strategy or I like to do the legislative work. Some political scientists have called it electorial aversion, right? The idea that it's not government per se, that is a problem maybe, but our electoral systems in terms of turning young people off, I was doing this research about 10 years ago is what I started collecting the data. So increasingly since then, I think it is unfortunately getting worse. The sense that there is gridlock and acrimony and a sense of politics as a toxic work environment.

19 (22m 20s):
There were reporters in the front of the Capitol and in front of reporters, representative, yo-yo called me. And I quote, these are the words that representative Yohan, levied against a Congresswoman.

18 (22m 37s):
The idea of like putting yourself in a bad workplace is less and less appealing.

1 (22m 44s):
I have older generations made politics so dirty that young people simply want nothing to do with.

18 (22m 52s):
I mean, the way that we think about that, there was a golden age and we're now fallen out of Eden. It seems a little silly. If you think of that, I teach the 1796 election to my students for this reason

20 (23m 6s):
Finney Adams administration, Jefferson,

18 (23m 9s):
That was probably far dirtier than anything. You've seen John Adams running against Thomas Jefferson

20 (23m 15s):
Inspires Hamilton, privately calls him Creole. Bashert in his town,

18 (23m 20s):
The nastiest kind of mud you can imagine, even without Twitter. And then the election of 1860 literally did rip the nation apart. Post reconstruction. I think of the election of 1884. There was this famous mudslinging thing against Grover Cleveland with a whole song about his elicit love. Wow. Right?

1 (23m 47s):
It's always been gross.

18 (23m 49s):
It is always gross. And yet democracy is just so painful and so difficult. And unfortunately it is really the best thing we can come up with.

1 (24m 4s):
I was reading that Chuck Grassley, who is 88 plans to run again. And it made me wonder, in all honesty, do you think the U S is going to stay this way?

18 (24m 13s):
I do For the foreseeable future. It won't always be the boomers, right? Because we're going to run out of them. So we, millennials are likely going to take over and age in office. If we keep the current political systems, the way they are, that reward, name recognition, that reward incumbency and seniority, all of those things will kind of contribute to young people staying away. And yet I was encouraged to see a lot of young people through movements, literally in the streets, black lives matter. And me too, and kind of this sense that there is something to save though, that, that we can revitalize or change things.

18 (25m 1s):
After 2016, there was a spike in women running for office, especially women of color. It was really an exciting moment in some ways. Well also terrifying to those, you know, worried about democracy. So the feeling that our democracy is in trouble does still seem to motivate at least some young people

1 (25m 31s):
Today's show was produced by Halima Shaw edited by Matthew Colette fact-checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by a FEMA Shapiro who liked me is in his forties. I'm Noel king. This has been today explained