0 (0s):
College president might be the least desirable job in the United States since October 7th. If you're at MIT, you might have pro-Palestinian protestors taking over buildings,

1 (13s):
Palestine

0 (15s):
If. You're at UPenn. You're dealing with threatening behavior. The

2 (18s):
Person reportedly toppled over furniture and was shouting what the leaders described as anti-Semitic obscenities.

0 (25s):
If you're at Harvard, your students might be getting doxxed.

3 (28s):
The names and faces of Harvard students, which we have blurred, are displayed under the title Harvard's Leading anti-Semites. The students are allegedly those whose signed onto a statement by the Student Group, Palestine Solidarity Committee

0 (42s):
And If. you are the president of any of these three schools. In particular, you're getting called to Congress to get roasted by a Trumpy Trump acolyte. Do

4 (50s):
You understand your testimony is dehumanizing them?

0 (53s):
The fight over antisemitism on American college campuses is coming up on today. Explained

Atlassian (1m 0s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian. Atlassian. software like Jira, confluence and Trello help power global collaboration for all teams so they can accomplish everything that's impossible alone, because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. No matter if you're a team of two, 200 or two million Atlassian software keeps everyone connected and moving together as one towards shared company goals. Learn, how to unleash the potential of your team at Atlassian dot com. That's A-T-L-A-S-S-I-A-N dot com.

5 (1m 33s):
Sian

Vox (1m 42s):
Hey there it's Noel from today. Explained since 2020, Vox has turned to our readers to help us keep Vox journalism free. Most newsrooms make money through either advertising or subscriptions, but for us, there are a couple of big problems with that. First, advertising goes up and down with the economy. And second, we are not into subscriptions. Vox is here to help everyone understand complex issues, not just people who can afford to pay for it. And we cannot do that, of course, if we have a paywall. So If, you believe in the public value of news. Please help us get to 95,000 gifts by the end of the year by going to Vox dot com slash give Today.

0 (2m 33s):
Explained Sean Ramas firm here with Nia Prater, who's been writing about this kerfuffle over college presidents for New York Magazine's. Intelligencer.

7 (2m 42s):
So, so last Tuesday, the House Education and the Workforce Committee, they held a hearing looking into how colleges and universities are handling antisemitism on their campuses. The hearing feature testimonies from three university leaders, Liz McGill, the president of the University of Pennsylvania.

4 (2m 60s):
Let me begin by saying that I and the University of Pennsylvania are horrified by and condemn Hamas war abhorrent and brutal terror attack on Israel on October 7th,

7 (3m 12s):
Claudine Gay, the president of Harvard University in

4 (3m 15s):
The two months since the atrocities of October 7th and the subsequent armed conflict and humanitarian crisis in Gaza, we have seen a dramatic and deeply concerning rise in antisemitism.

7 (3m 28s):
And Sally Kornbluth, the president of MIT,

4 (3m 31s):
As an American, as a Jew, and as a human being, I abhor antisemitism. And my administration is combating it actively.

7 (3m 41s):
So during this hearing, school leaders were really, you know, grilled on how their institutions have been addressing antisemitism, in particular by New York Congresswoman Elise Stefanik, who has been somewhat of a rising star on the Republican side of things in Congress. She's a member of Republican House leadership.

4 (4m 1s):
Does calling for the genocide of Jews violate MIT's code of conduct or rules regarding bullying and harassment? Yes or no? And

7 (4m 9s):
These leaders, they received fierce backlash in particular when none of the three specifically said that calling for the genocide of Jewish people would be a violation of their school's. Codes of conduct

4 (4m 21s):
I have not heard calling for the genocide for Jews on our campus. But you've heard chance for ada. I've heard Chance, which can be antisemitic depending on the context. When calling for the elimination of the Jewish people,

7 (4m 34s):
Basically during their testimony, the presidents seem to take more of a legal approach to the questioning

4 (4m 39s):
Anti-Semitic rhetoric when it crosses into conduct that amounts to bullying, harassment, intimidation that is actionable conduct. And we do take action

7 (4m 50s):
Seeming to, they're trying to balance like this idea of, you know, what free speech on campus would look like while explaining how they would address actual conduct, you know, like threats, physical incidences, like if those things occurred.

4 (5m 3s):
It depends on the context. It does not depend on the context. The answer is yes, and this is why you should resign. These are unacceptable.

0 (5m 10s):
And by not responding strongly to this question and just saying yes, this violates our student conduct policies, what have you,

4 (5m 19s):
It is a context dependent decision. Congresswoman,

0 (5m 22s):
The president of U Penn made a extremely compelling clip for those who might wanna say call for her Ouster. This

4 (5m 31s):
Is the easiest question to answer. Yes, Ms. McGill,

0 (5m 35s):
Out of curiosity, is this a widespread thing on American college campuses right now? Are a lot of people calling for the genocide of Jews on American college campuses?

7 (5m 44s):
There hasn't been a lot of reporting that that supports like, you know, explicit calls for genocide. I think it seems like that a lot of it is coming down to interpretations of some, some popular slogans that are used by pro-Palestinian protestors. For example, the phrase from the river to the sea, or like to globalize the intifada, depending on the side that you're on in the conflict, these terms can mean different things. And you know, there's also been instances of protests happening on campus and then some student populations feeling intimidated or frightened by the amount of protesting on campus.

0 (6m 22s):
And this congressional hearing just gave any critic of these college presidents any critic of campus policies, ammunition. What is the immediate fallout from these hearings?

7 (6m 32s):
So following the hearing, you know, backlash was swift.

9 (6m 39s):
A congressional committee plans to open an investigation into antisemitism on the campuses of three elite universities

10 (6m 48s):
Need to go.

11 (6m 49s):
Students rallied on campus today outside McGill's office.

12 (6m 52s):
I'm a Jewish student here, and I think that she needs to step down.

13 (6m 58s):
Business leaders like Pfizer, CEO called it one of the most despicable moments in the history of US academia to not

14 (7m 4s):
Have a climate where kids can thrive and go to school and feel protected. It's they are failing in the worst way.

7 (7m 11s):
The alumni, donors and politicians alike were calling for all three of these presidents to either be replaced or for them to resign from their positions. The case of Liz McGill, the president of the University of Pennsylvania, was, was particularly striking. Her remarks were directly condemned by Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro. Frank, I

15 (7m 31s):
Thought her comments were absolutely

7 (7m 32s):
Shameful. And even a, a donor for UPenn actually threatened to revoke a $100 million donation to the school in light of her testimony. Hmm. So it wasn't really a surprise when on Saturday, Miguel announced her resignations won from her role as president, along with Scott Bach, the chairman of Penn's board of Trustees.

10 (7m 53s):
In that moment, I was focused on our university's longstanding policies aligned with the US Constitution, which say that speech alone is not punishable. I was not focused on, but I should have been the irrefutable fact that a call for genocide of Jewish people is a call for some of the most terrible violence human beings can perpetrate.

7 (8m 20s):
Now Miguel will still officially be a faculty member at Penn's Law School, but she, she's no longer president and it's a role that she's only held since last year.

0 (8m 30s):
The clips would have you believe that these three university presidents epically failed on this national, even international stage. But are there people out there saying they carried themselves Well,

7 (8m 41s):
Yeah, it seems like each situation is a, a little bit different from school to school. So with MIT, the school's executive committee actually issued a statement of very strong support for Sally Koble following her testimony.

16 (8m 54s):
The governing board of MIT says it stands behind its President Sally Koble saying she has our full and unreserved support.

7 (9m 3s):
And so far it seems like she's avoided like the brunt of the backlash that her colleagues have received. There are some people, you know, particularly free speech advocates that thought, you know, they handled the questioning well. And an example of like Liz McGill resigning and then calling for these presidents to step down like that, this could pose a really dangerous threat to free speech on campuses. My my colleague Jonathan Che actually wrote a column a few days ago where he, he pretty much argued that

17 (9m 32s):
When Elise Stefanik was asking the university presidents about calling for genocide of the Jews, she was referring directly to previous questions about slogans about the Intifada. The university presidents were very clear that calling for genocide of the Jews is bad, but they were appropriately cagey about committing themselves to restrict any kind of speech that could be interpreted by someone as potentially inciting violence. Because that's actually very tricky.

0 (10m 4s):
It feels like this war isn't nearly over yet. It feels like there's gonna be a lot of killing to come. Do you think this kind of tension between politicians and university presidents and student bodies is, is here to stay for months to come?

7 (10m 23s):
I would say so. I mean, in the wake of McGill's resignations won. Elise Nik, the congresswoman I alluded to earlier, she tweeted, you know, one down two more to go.

0 (10m 34s):
Yikes.

7 (10m 35s):
So she's, she's clearly seeing this as like, you know, only the beginning of a continuing process of looking into colleges and universities and how they're handling certain issues. I believe the, the House has already launched a investigation into these three schools for their handling of, of antisemitism. So this is definitely not going away anytime soon. And if anything, it's bound to become a bigger issue in the weeks and months to come.

0 (11m 14s):
Nia Prater writes for New York magazine, find her work at ny mag dot com. We spoke with her Monday and first thing Tuesday we got the news at Harvard's president Claudine Gay will be keeping her job, at least for now in a statement, members of the Harvard Corporation said

18 (11m 30s):
So many people have suffered tremendous damage and pain because of Hamas war, brutal terrorist attack. And the university's initial statement should have been an immediate, direct and unequivocal condemnation. Calls for a genocide are despicable and contrary to fundamental human values. President Gay has apologized for how she handled her congressional testimony and has committed to redoubling the university's fight against antisemitism.

1 (12m 2s):
When

0 (12m 3s):
We're back, a Harvard professor who has some thoughts on President Gay's leadership helps us understand what it's like on campus these days.

Deleteme (12m 26s):
Support for today explained comes from Delete Me. Have you ever wondered how much of your personal data is online for old to see if you've been the target of a hack or a phishing scam? All of that info might be readily available to data brokers who make a profit off of your personal information. Delete Me offers a way to keep your personal information personal. They can find and remove any personal information you don't want online. You can sign up, you can tell them exactly what information you want deleted and their experts will take it from there. Sarah Frank is my colleague who works on the business side of things here at Vox and she got a chance to try out Deleteme. Deleteme made it incredibly easy for me to remove my data from these sites. They proactively removed my information from a lot of sites and gave me a quick tutorial on how to remove my phone number and address from the remaining data brokers. Right now, you can get 20% off your Delete Me Plan when you go to join Deleteme dot com slash today and use promo code today. The way to get 20% off is to go to join Deleteme dot com slash today and enter promo code today at checkout. That's join Deleteme dot com slash today. Promo code today,

Atlassian (13m 40s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian. Atlassian. software like Jira, confluence and Trello help power the collaboration for teams to accomplish what would otherwise be impossible alone. Because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. That's why millions of teams around the world, including 75% of the Fortune 500 Trust Atlassian software for everything from space exploration and green energy to delivering pizzas and podcasts, whether you're a team of two, 200 or 2 million, or whether your team is around the corner or around another continent altogether, Atlassian software is built to help keep you all on the same page from start to finish. That way every one of your teams, from engineering and IT to marketing, HR, and legal can stay connected and moving together as one towards shared company goals. Learn, how to unleash the potential of your team at Atlassian dot com. That's A-T-L-A-S s A N dot com.

5 (14m 35s):
Atlassian

Unexplainable podcast (14m 43s):
Uncertainty is the driving force behind science, but it can also be weaponized. There are as many scientists on the opposite side of all of these doomsday predictions. Oil companies have consciously used uncertainty to create doubt around climate change. Alternative Fuels don't provide a simple answer, And they've done this in the face of clear mounting evidence. There Is not a crisis. This was all part of the plan, which oil companies explicitly laid out in a memo. It Has since been called the Victory Memo because it lays out what victory would mean for this coalition of industries. You're saying there's actually a, a memo Yes. Almost Like, a literal smoking gun that says what victory means for us is to confuse the public and make them think that climate change isn't real. Yes, that's, that's nuts. This week on unexplainable, a decades long campaign to use the power of science against itself. Follow unexplainable for new episodes every Wednesday.

24 (15m 48s):
Athena you're listening to today explained

22 (15m 56s):
Derek Pessler, professor of history at Harvard University and Director of the Center for Jewish Studies.

0 (16m 3s):
What have the past few months been like on campus for, for you as a professor, for the director of Harvard Center for Jewish Studies? I, I presume for you as a Jewish person,

22 (16m 16s):
It's been hard, it's been very difficult, as you said, in number of respects. First off, as a person, I am Jewish myself, I have a lot of connections with Israel. I've spent a lot of time there. I have a lot of close colleagues and friends there who have lost family, people who have been killed, injured, taken into captivity, and people who now on a daily basis are running to their bomb shelters. So it's been hard on that level. It's been hard for me because I know of the horrific damage and loss of life in, in Gaza. I, I don't believe it is militarily efficacious and I worry very much about the massive loss of civilian life.

22 (17m 3s):
So of Palestinian life that worries me. And then here at home, obviously I have Jewish students who are themselves worried, they're in grief and they're nervous about displays of pro-Palestinian feeling here at, at Harvard, some of my students are Israeli and they are particularly nervous, some of them. And then there are students here who are from the Middle East or who are sympathetic with the Palestinian cause just because they favor the cause and who have been doxxed, that is their personal details have been spilled out on the net. They have suffered from various forms of career retaliation that is certain employers, you know, say they won't employ them if they have endorsed pro-Palestinian statements.

22 (17m 51s):
Hmm. So there's a lot of problems going on at Harvard University right now. It's not limited to any one group. And you know, I'm dealing with all of this and then with expressions of concern from alumni who have read things that make the situation at Harvard sound considerably worse than, than it is.

0 (18m 12s):
I wanna ask you more about that specifically because obviously this hearing that we talked about earlier in the show was very much focused on this problem of, of being pro genocide or anti genocide. And it feels like that isn't the conversation people are having in their daily lives. How much has, what's going on on your campus and perhaps campuses across the country been blown out of proportion by politicians, by social media, by the media, what have you?

22 (18m 41s):
Well, there's a difference between saying that there is a problem, but it's been exaggerated and saying that there's no problem. There is a problem at Harvard and at lots of other universities in the wake of October 7th, there were Jewish students who were intimidated and terrorized by vicious and violent social media posts. I mean, truly viciously, anti-Semitic social media posts. There have been cases of verbal like snipes nasty comments that Jewish students and a particularly insidious form of ostracizing or of, you know, social shunning where students are losing friendships over this issue. So it's not like students are getting beaten up, but there have been a lot of uncomfortable, very uncomfortable situations.

22 (19m 26s):
And then there's the issue of pro-Palestinian students with loud demonstrations shouting certain slogans with certain banners that make Jewish students feel uncomfortable. And this is really a tough question because the pro-Palestinian students, of course, have a right to demonstrate and they have a right to express their support for Palestinian rights. And then trying to figure out where those limits lie, where do they cross the line into intimidation, harassment and so forth.

0 (19m 53s):
And the slogans you're talking about there, we also addressed those early in the show. We're talking about, I believe, from the river to the sea Chance for an Intifada. Is that what you're addressing?

22 (20m 3s):
Yeah. And the fact is that these are slogans and they can mean a lot of things. So when you say from the river of the Sea, Palestine will be free, are you talking about throwing all the Jews out of the state of Israel or killing them? Or are you talking about freedom for the Palestinians living side by side with Jews? Are you simply not thinking about the Jews at that moment because you're really thinking about Palestinian freedom and that, that that's what's on your mind. So that that statement can mean a lot of different things? Evidently, there are people I've heard anecdotally who believed that the river was the Charles River. In other words, they didn't really know what the phrase from the river to the sea meant.

0 (20m 40s):
Some, some distance away from, from Palestine,

22 (20m 42s):
Some something. Look, there are people who use the phrase who, who really do mean the destruction of Israel. There are other people who use it who mean something else. And also with Intifada, you know, I, I lived in Israel through two Intifadas and they were uprisings by Palestinians seeking to shake off Israeli rule. That's what the word Intifada means. It means shaking off. Does Intifada mean destroying the state of Israel? Well, there are people who favor Intifada, who wanted that, particularly in Hamas, which is dedicated to the destruction of the state of Israel. And there's lots of other people for whom the Intifada was a means to obtain Palestinian statehood that might very well be a Palestinian state alongside of Israel. So again, the word intifada in and of itself can mean lots of different things.

0 (21m 25s):
You know, campus controversies usually, at least in my experience going to college some years ago, seem to be like specific to a campus or they remain on campus. But of course, this particular campus controversy for you guys went national, if not international last week with this hearing on Capitol Hill. How do you think Harvard President Claudine gay fared?

22 (21m 49s):
Well, first of all, you're right, this is not limited to Harvard and it's not limited to MIT and Penn. It's happening everywhere. It's really the most important, I'd say, source of political unrest on campuses since the Vietnam War. Hmm. And that's been 50 years. And Harvard has gotten singled out largely because Harvard has a reputation as being sort of number one or peerless, although we're just one of many good universities. And I think ING Gay made the same mistake in her testimony in Congress that the other two presidents did, in that her lawyers told her how to speak and they told her to speak in a very careful way that would not lead to a lawsuit. And legally what she said might very well have been correct.

22 (22m 30s):
But what the presidents, it's not just President Gay, didn't really think through, is they were talking to the American people and they needed to speak in a way that took cognizance of the American people's sensibilities and fears and sensitivities at this time. And, and that was a mistake. There's no question that President Gay made a mistake and she admitted as much.

0 (22m 50s):
We spoke to Professor Pessler before the Harvard Corporation decided to let President Gaykeeper job. But we did ask him if he thought she should resign. Here's what he said.

22 (23m 0s):
I don't think she should resign. And I also think that if there's gonna be a decision that she should resign whenever that might happen, if, if, if ever this is something that should be the result of conversation between the Harvard faculty. I mean, we're the ones who devote our careers in our lives to, to, to Harvard and then the alumni and other, what I would call the lay leadership of Harvard. So the, the corporation and the Board of Overseers. So these are alumni and important people who are can, are connected to Harvard, but they don't teach here. And I think that removing a president to a very serious business, and it's not something you would do lightly and it's certainly not something you would do in response to political pressure from some congressional figures, you know, some representatives in Washington.

22 (23m 43s):
And so a letter got thrown together, a very short letter that simply stated that Harvard needs to be immune from political pressures. It's just a bulwark of democracy to have the, the university maintain its autonomy. It was a very short letter and it went out to the faculty and within a day it had gotten 700 signatures, which meant exactly to do the math. It's somewhere between a third and a half of the Harvard faculty. So it's, it's, it's a very large number and it's just a statement, not necessarily, not necessarily an endorsement of President Gay's leadership because there's division on that. But a sense that this is, this is our issue. This is an issue for the Harvard faculty to try to figure out and, and not to let Congress soar, you know, outside people try to tell us what to do.

22 (24m 23s):
I would like to see changes. I would like to see changes in how she handles issues involving free speech, hate speech, the general atmosphere on campus. Yes, we need to make some very big changes, but no, don don't think she should resign. Tell

0 (24m 39s):
Me what you'd like to see the president do. President gay.

22 (24m 42s):
Well, one thing, no more public statements. Hmm. These public statements that the president has made and that other presidents of universities have made are, are pretty useless in that no student at Harvard is going to change their opinion by saying, oh, president Gay said X, therefore I should stop, you know, whatever it is I'm doing. Yeah. It's, it's just, it's meaningless. I think what the president needs to do is be a model of leadership for us, for the senior administration and for all of us, the faculty in initiating ways to talk about tough issues, including Israel Palestine in an informed substantive and civil way.

22 (25m 23s):
And what's happened in the last few weeks, there's been a vacuum from the president's office, but there have been a number of faculty in government, the government department in the Kennedy School in Jewish studies in in Middle East, studies many units who have started to organize events in which we can talk about these things in a, in a serious way. There was an event just a few days ago that was extremely well received where I was talking with a Palestinian scholar and an Israeli scholar, and we all talked through how we got here and you know where we're going. Hmm. And there was such a positive reception to this event because people were hungering for serious conversation. It wasn't people screaming at each other.

22 (26m 3s):
And it's not like we all agreed, but we disagreed civilly because if we just replicate the conflict that all we're gonna do is replicate the Israel Palestine conflict at Harvard, we may as well close up shop. And it's not easy to do by the way to, you know, to, it hurts sometimes to hear those points of views that you don't share. But I think we do need to do more of it. And in that sense, this could be a real teachable moment for Harvard and for universities everywhere. You know, I have to be an optimist because there's no choice. If I'm helping organize events where we talk about Israel Palestine in a more calm and civil way, if I teach my courses on this subject or on other courses, on contentious topics in a way that fosters conversation and disagreement, I know I'm just one person and I'm just reaching a few students, but I'd like to think, you know, that if everybody takes on that kind of commitment, we can get somewhere.

22 (26m 56s):
The obstacles are huge, but I really do see a sign not only at Harvard, but at other universities where this could be an important step forward. And at least I'm going to act on that assumption.

0 (27m 18s):
Professor Derek Pessler is the William Lee Frost professor of Jewish history at Harvard, where President Gay still has her job. Halima s Shah and Isabel Angell made today's show with edits from Amina Alade fact checks by Laura Bullard and mixing by Patrick Boyd. It's today explained.