1 (7s):
Screenwriter forgets to pay the bill for a storage facility in Los Angeles. The contents are auctioned off keepsakes from a life in television, a love of baseball and 25 artworks by John Michel Basquiat. But are they real? If only someone would authenticate them, enter the Orlando museum of art, they dedicate an entire show to the never before seen Basquiat's and the FBI enters the museum and seizes. Every last one of them,

2 (42s):
They literally took them down off the walls of the gallery. They were hanging in and hauled them away.

1 (52s):
I'm Sean Rama's from the case of the fake Basquiat's ahead until they explained

‎Waveform (1m 0s):
What does that people have internet I'm Marquez, Brownlee, AK MKBHD. And I just want to quickly tell you about my podcast way form. So I've been making tech review videos on YouTube for over a decade. And through the years I've gotten my hands on some pretty cool jaw dropping tech on wave form, along with my co-host Andrew, Megan, Nelly, we take a more, in-depth look at some of the most recent bleeding edge tech out today. We covered the crazy stuff that you don't see everyday, like camera, robot, arms, and rollable TVs. But we also covered everyday tech like smart phones, laptops, and like the influx of EVs that seem to come out or what feels like every other week. So if you want to stay up to date with the latest tech and internet news, you can find us on Spotify, apple podcasts, or anywhere you listen, see you there.

2 (1m 47s):
Boss. God is one of the most famous and arguably one of the most significant artists to emerge from the downtown New York art scene of the 1980s.

1 (1m 58s):
SoCal is a contributing writer on art and culture for the New York times. He's based in Miami, Florida.

2 (2m 4s):
He's also really the poster child for art stardom. I don't want to call his success overnight, but pretty close to it. He starts really showing his work in some prominent group shows in 1980 and by 1982, his star is really on the rise to the point where people are trying to kill each other over getting a hold of his work. And by the end of the eighties, he is a bonafide art star

5 (2m 31s):
Basquiat who's credited as the first to bring street art, to find

2 (2m 35s):
And his importance within the art world. And also the accompanying prices for his work have only soared in the decade. Since up until may. Bob yacht held the record for an American artist at auction

6 (2m 51s):
Auction records shattered at Sotheby's Thursday with the $110.5 million sale of this painting by John Michelle Buck

2 (2m 59s):
Yacht. He was only knocked down to number two by Andy Warhol, and they're still sort of jockeying back and forth for the pole positions there. But another painting of Basquiat's did sell this past may for $85 million, not an amount to scuff ad. There is a lot of money at stake in the Basquiat market and not just for his paintings. There is a mania for anything associated with Basquiat, whether it's a commercial for Tiffany's with Jay Z in it with a basket painting behind him. And Jay Z is, is dressed up to look like a, one of the iconic looks at Basquiat, or whether it's in the form of 29 99, t-shirts that you can get at the gap with Basquiat's work on it.

2 (3m 39s):
There's just a huge clamoring for all things Basquiat. And it keeps growing month to month, year to year.

1 (3m 48s):
And maybe this kind of explains why someone might want to fake a Alaska.

2 (3m 53s):
Yes, there is a lot of money at stake here, and certainly we're speaking theoretically here, if you were an art forger and you were trying to forge some artwork that you could sell for a lot of money, Basquiat would be a very good candidate for that.

1 (4m 10s):
And this brings us to Orlando. So set the scene for me, what exactly happened in Florida?

2 (4m 17s):
So most traumatically on Friday, June 24th, over a dozen FBI agents from the FBI's art crime team raided the Orlando museum of art. They came in through the front door, showed a search warrant and went into the museums, Marquis exhibition of paintings by Basquiat or at least paintings, which the museum said were by Basquiat.

5 (4m 39s):
Is it a Basquiat or Bosky not? FBI investigators are looking into whether 25 John Michel Basquiat paintings that were on display at the Orlando museum of art and ensured it more than $82 million were for

2 (4m 53s):
The FBI agents. Literally took them down off the walls of the gallery. They were hanging in and hauled them away back to presumably a storage warehouse. I think it's worth emphasizing this. An FBI raid of a museum show is not something that happens in art museums every day. It's it's quite the spectacle. And so it raises the question, how on earth did we get to that point? These are 25 paintings that were said by the museums. Now, former director, Aaron to graft, as well as the owners of these artworks to have been done by Basquiat to have been painted back in 1982, they were supposedly all sold by Boskiet in 1982, directly to the late TV screenwriter, Thad Mumford for about $5,000.

2 (5m 45s):
The 25 artworks then disappeared for three decades. Again, according to the museum only resurfacing in 2012 after Mumford failed to pay the bill on his Los Angeles storage unit and contents, the Basquiat paintings, as well as a Mumford zone, baseball memorabilia and TV industry ephemera. He was a producer and a writer on mash. All of this was auctioned off and it was eventually bought by its current owners for about $15,000,

1 (6m 13s):
15,000. They knew that there were baskets and they were buying them for 15,000.

2 (6m 17s):
As they explain this, they spotted what they saw was a diamond in the rough, huh? Their names are William force, Leo Mangan and Pierce O'Donald. They bought these artworks in 2012. The art went on display in the Orlando museum of art this past February. They feature a lot of the iconic elements that you see in much Basquiat's work from the early eighties. There are skulls, there are crowns, there are all kinds of the iconic visual markers that are familiar to people. Who've looked at Basquiat's work, but there are a lot of curators who were given pause in looking at them beyond just that they've seen those elements before, the way that they were arranged the lack of an internal coherency that troubled certain people who looked at them, but there are other art world experts who were hired by the artworks owners who did believe that they were indeed by Basquiat.

2 (7m 22s):
I think it's very telling that they have not up to this point, been able to sell the artworks. There is a silence that is deafening from certain corners of the art world over the past real decade, in terms of attempts to sell. These works. One of the elements that raised a lot of red flags for people initially looking at these artworks, particularly with the curators at the Orlando museum of art. When these artworks first arrived was the cardboard that these paintings were done on. Again, there's 25 artworks, they're all painted on slabs of cardboard. And if you flip one of those slabs of cardboard over, it appears to have been painted on a piece of federal express shipping material, like the boxes that people use to put stuff in and mail something via FedEx.

2 (8m 12s):
And there was a very, very clear imprint that said place, FedEx shipping label here. And it just didn't appear right? First of all, back in 1982, when these paintings were said to have been done by Basquiat, federal express did not use the phrase FedEx. They wrote out the full federal express. They didn't use the actual shorthand of FedEx until later the curators. There were just a number of elements that seemed wrong, that seemed off. And that's why they brought this to the attention of the director and said something doesn't seem right here.

1 (8m 52s):
So some 10 years after these three stumble upon this gold mine, someone finally agrees to show them in a credible museum. Is there a big opening night party kind of thing?

2 (9m 6s):
Very much. So there was a big VIP opening this past February at the museum, thousands of people turned up. It really was a celebratory moment, both for the museum. And I think for Orlando at large, people were really happy that the show is there in Orlando, that work that we said to be by Basquiat was being shown in Orlando and not in say New York or LA or Chicago. It was a moment that made a lot of people they're very happy. And I think a lot of those folks are, are particularly upset right now. They feel like they were used like their trust was abused.

1 (9m 41s):
At what point does the FBI take an interest in this art show?

2 (9m 46s):
This is part of why a lot of people are very disturbed by how the story has unfolded. The FBI subpoenaed the museum for all of its internal records concerning these Basquiat's long before the show even opened, oh, last July, the FBI subpoenaed the museum for all their records, all their communications with the artworks owners, as well as the various art world experts who the owners had hired to try to authenticate them as well as all the records from the board of directors. The FBI, we now know has been following this, these artworks for a long time, almost a decade. I think it's also worth noting here that in the affidavit filed by the FBI as part of getting their search warrant to seize these paintings.

2 (10m 31s):
The FBI has revealed that they spoke with fad, Mumford and fad. Mumford told them that he never met Basquiat back in 1982, that he never bought paintings from Boskiet. He certainly didn't put paintings by Basquiat into his storage unit. That, that part of the story, at least according to him is false.

1 (10m 53s):
What happens after they're seized?

2 (10m 55s):
The board of directors of the museum met on the Tuesday after that Friday, June 24th raid. And they decided to dismiss the director. Aaron de Graaf from his position. This still raises a lot of questions. The director, in this case, wasn't acting as some kind of rogue agent. He had the approval of the board of directors. In fact, the chairwoman of the board spoken his public defense again and again, as questions were being raised about these artworks and about this exhibition, he had the backing of the board. And so people are saying, why did it take FBI agents rating the museum for the board to finally really do something here?

1 (11m 36s):
So it doesn't sound like the director of the museum's going to face any charges for this, but what about the owners of the artwork? William forest, Leo Mangan Pierce O'Donnell.

2 (11m 46s):
The FBI has said that they do have evidence that the owners of these artworks did appear to know that they were in authentic and also that they were accepting money. They were selling off essentially investments shares in these artworks for $35,000, a pop criminal charges have not been filed. And we'll just have to see what the FBI's next move is.

1 (12m 11s):
This Basquiat incident in Orlando feels like almost a cinematic version of art crime, but how big a problem is art crime

2 (12m 20s):
Forgery of artwork is a huge problem, not just in United States, but around the world. And there's a huge amount of money involved in it. It's part of the reason why the FBI has an art crime team when millions and millions of dollars are at stake. That's, that's something to be taken very seriously. I think what's, what's important to note here is that this story isn't just about possible fraud. It's not just about possible art crime. That's certainly a headline grabbing aspect of it. But this is really also a story about accountability, about the accountability of art museums, to the public, and also about the accountability of art museums, to artists, to an artist's legacy.

2 (13m 5s):
I think if these paintings do in fact turn out to be absolutely inauthentic, it really does a grave disservice to the cultural legacy of John Michel Basquiat.

1 (13m 17s):
That was Brett SoCal art supporter in Miami. When we're back, we're going to hear from a guy who knew Basquiat and then took up forging baskets and went to prison for it. It's today explained

Avast (13m 34s):
Support for today's show comes from a vast while you're listening to this podcast, you probably aren't thinking about the websites that you're currently logged into with all of these accounts, open and passwords flying around your information could be at risk. Don't let your passwords fly. Avast wants to put your mind at ease. Avast has been one of the leaders in cybersecurity for more than 30 years and their Avast. One protection gives you the ability to take control of your safety and privacy. Online. It's accessible through a single easy to use interface. The Avast one program comes complete with antivirus defenses that can keep malware from compromising your devices and ransomware protection, which can keep your personal photographs, your documents, and other important files, safe Avast. One also offers data breach, monitoring services, firewall protection, and a feature called PC speed up, which optimizes the background activity of your apps to speed up lagging machines with a vast one. You can confidently take control of your online world without worrying about viruses, phishing attacks, ransomware hacking attempts, flying passwords and other cyber crimes. Learn more about Avast. one@avast.com

Land Of The Giants (15m 5s):
And I'm Alex Heath. We're hosting land of the giants, a podcast about the biggest tech companies of our time. This season Metta formerly known as Facebook. It's a company in a particularly controversial and vulnerable moment. Mark Zuckerberg is placing a multi-billion dollar bet towards an imagined metaverse future. Meanwhile, the rest of us are still grappling with what he's already built This season. We're going to talk to the executive steering Meta's biggest decisions. And you'll hear from some of Meta's sharpest critics. It's former employees We'll explore wise. Zuckerberg is taking the company in a bold direction and how Facebook's past will inform its future Land of the giants. The Facebook Mehta disruption from Recode, the verge and the Vox media podcast network. This season is sponsored by Klayvio Subscribe for free wherever you listen and get our first episode on Wednesday, July 13th,

11 (16m 3s):
Neihardt and Sam, a new shot. Michelle surrounded by Warhols my whole team bow

1 (16m 9s):
Today. Explain to better understand why people forge boss Scouts. We thought there'd be no better person to ask than a former Basquiat forger

12 (16m 16s):
Afraid of Martinez. The tourist spots get forger allegedly.

1 (16m 21s):
And unlike your run of the mill Basquiat, forgers, Alfredo actually knew John Michelle

12 (16m 27s):
From the scene. He was out a lot. He's hard to miss. I mean the art world is rather monochromatic and there's not a black people on it.

1 (16m 36s):
I asked Alfredo what kind of art he was making back in Basquiat's heyday.

12 (16m 42s):
Listen, kind of embarrassing to say I was not interested in making artwork until after I started making four drinks.

1 (16m 51s):
As he tells the story back in the eighties, Alfredo was working at a gallery in New York city, a woman. He knew had a fling with Basquiat. And sometime later she came over to Alfredo's with some original basket drawings rolled up into tube.

12 (17m 5s):
She grabbed the tuber drawings. I looked at them, it's like I consulted, but then I also realized I could start copying them. I'm in front of the real ones. You have to know exactly what the real ones look like to make fake ones. And you have to be in the presence of the real ones. He photographs has not been.

1 (17m 26s):
Tell me how you, how you start making fake Bosque yachts. Is it hard for you at first?

12 (17m 31s):
Well, I have to paper make them paper come up because here a messy studio, there's always a little like slight stain or like footprint.

1 (17m 44s):
So you were doing these on paper,

12 (17m 46s):
The first ones on water, because if I made them big, it's like stealing a city bus and trying to sell them event. You make small drawings and they just slipped on the radar.

1 (17m 60s):
Well, w how do you go from making fake Basquiat's by yourself to selling them?

12 (18m 5s):
Well, my gallery would have more openings and I remember my boss said, although, talk that guy, he's one of the sleazy art dealers in town. So obviously I made it be like for him to try to unload these basket.

1 (18m 24s):
So does this become a career for you making fake baskets

12 (18m 28s):
Intermittently when I'm broke,

1 (18m 30s):
How much do you sell them for?

12 (18m 32s):
I found the art dealer. So I took out a persona of someone who didn't know what they were doing. So they always thought they were ripping me off. Like I had this pocket, which is worth, I'm just trying to sell for a friend of mine.

1 (18m 48s):
And how much would you get for it?

12 (18m 50s):
I get like 10 grand.

1 (18m 52s):
So you were doing like 10 grand at a time? 10 grand here. 10 grand there.

12 (18m 56s):
10 grand.

1 (18m 57s):
Okay. Do you know how much money you ended up making in total off of fake baskets?

12 (19m 0s):
I do not recall have no memory of any of this,

1 (19m 5s):
But eventually you get in trouble for doing this.

12 (19m 7s):
Well, you know, I felt two or three of these it's enough to live on for a year. Why push it? But then I wanted to get out of the <inaudible> world, a friend of mine <inaudible> and I felt like the art world was like a Aztec Colt that wanted a blood sacrifice every once in a while. So I just wanted it out. So my plan was to like, make a million dollars and move to the boonies. Like the Philippines, I was dealing with art dealer, Leo Malka, and he knew that my baskets were fake. So he taught me to like doing business with him, just making fake boss, the Basquiat mini with the fathers specifically, who would authenticate anything.

12 (19m 51s):
He gave him. If he paid him 10%, what he thought it would sell for

1 (19m 57s):
This is John Michelle's father. Yes. All right. Just to reiterate here, Alfredo's version of this story is that this big New York collector, Leo Malka was knowingly buying fake baskets. And that Basquiat's own father was in on the scam. We reached out to Leo Malcolm's people today and they disputed Alfredo's account for what it's worth.

12 (20m 15s):
You ever have a fault payer, like someone who owes you money and they take forever pain.

1 (20m 20s):
I can relate. This

12 (20m 21s):
Is like illegal business. It's like cashing caring. And he was stalling paying me. So I'm like, I'm not working, working anymore. And I started selling the other people and he got upset. So he ended up calling the FBI. The thing is, if you call the FBI, the first thing they do is investigate you. My lawyers said he set himself on fire to give me a summer.

1 (20m 51s):
So you both got in trouble.

12 (20m 52s):
Well, when the FBI rescue me, they wanted me to turn evidence against him, huh? But I want to refuse to be a rat. Also, when they arrest you, they don't want rescue by yourself. They won't arrest you. And anyone you knew even slightly. And I wasn't going to do that. I was trying to make fake documentation. So I had people helping me make that. And I conveniently forgot who they were. I remember this one bag. She starts asking me my aliases. And I tell him, Rufus T Firefly, Otis, Piedras foot. These are like the character names from Roger Marks.

12 (21m 35s):
Because if I got to trial, what had happened, they would go off random. Where Nina alias, oldest, Pete would say,

1 (21m 45s):
Did you go to trial?

12 (21m 46s):
Yes.

1 (21m 47s):
What were you charged with? Mail

12 (21m 49s):
Fraud.

1 (21m 49s):
Mail. Fraud. Yeah. Not basket fraud.

12 (21m 52s):
Well, that involves costly investigation to prove they can prove the mail fraud. So they got me for,

1 (22m 0s):
Oh, because you were lying about having Bosque yachts in the mail.

12 (22m 4s):
The nice thing is a cop friend of mine had warned me that I was under investigation. So I wasn't really super surprised that I was arrested like a week earlier. I had gone to a lawyer. I told them what I was doing and asked them how much time it would do. And he estimated, well, it's your first offense being arrested for any, it's like a, not a violent crime it's offense. I probably get one to three years and I got 21 months right in the middle there. And I was 36 at the time. And I have been making four DS since I was 18 years old. So it's like, I've been doing this half, my natural life at this point.

1 (22m 45s):
You know, Alfredo, when I look at a basket, I see something striking original complex. And it makes me wonder why forge a basket? Why not forge like a, a Rothko or a Mondrian, which would in theory be a lot easier.

12 (23m 3s):
Well, people have done that, but most people for work, a fortunate contemporary, because it's easier to get the material. Otherwise you have to artificially age. Since I remember, I was trying to fake a Jackson Pollock and the pinky uses they don't make anymore. Huh? Like he used industrial machinery paint back in the forties. When you paint machinery, you want not rough and awful. They will color code things in factories, color code, different machinery. So you wanted to paint a boiler or a milling machine. It would be this industrial blue, industrial, red and dust you received like that kind of like super supernatural part is titanium paint that they paint this stuff on.

12 (23m 46s):
It's like oil and grease. Like it laughs it anything that like, we'll try sustain it. It's just like you just wipe it off a wet rag and it's fine. So this is the kind of paint that the Pollack use in his paintings because it's cheap paint. You can buy it by the gallon at the hardware store.

1 (24m 1s):
Well, what kind of materials does Basquiat use that makes his stuff easier to forge?

12 (24m 5s):
You can buy them at the art supply store. That's why they still make all that stuff. I mean, the stupidest thing is making these Basquiat's on cardboard with any kind of markings at all that could be traced and so stupid. It's like if I was making large fake Basquiats, I'd go to flea markets dig around for like old materials to paint on. I wouldn't use like stuff from now. It's just stupid.

1 (24m 32s):
Did you know that art crime has become the third, highest grossing criminal trade in the world?

12 (24m 39s):
Doesn't surprise me because art crimes also used to launder money. I could right now take three real. Basquiat's put them in a nice portfolio case. Get on a plane, Zurich, Switzerland customs here. Wouldn't give me any problem for leaving the country with three real Basquiat's the drawings would just be like 20 would be worth like a hundred grand each at least maybe half a million. Each is basically a caring bearer bonds. This, they look cuter on your wall right now I could take a million dollars in literally looks stained money and go to any gallery as can I buy some artwork, this money.

12 (25m 20s):
They give me a discount for buying things in cash. You can't do that with diamonds. You can't do that with cars or houses. There's a paper trail. It's really kind of funny. I realized after I got arrested that it was kind of like an open secret. What I was doing is just, people were just thought it was funny. And they liked who I was doing it to. Like there was this one big art dealer I showed my boss yet to not to sell it to them, gets to tell them, oh, what he thought? And he thought, it's a good one. Who are you selling it to? Oh, I'm selling until they feel welcome. Oh good man. He just smiled at me. And when he talked with the FBI just said, I am shocked, shocked, afraid of involved in any kind of forgery.

12 (25m 60s):
And this is a big art dealer and curator. And it's like, now I repay him the favor by staying at least 500 feet away from him.

1 (26m 11s):
Alfredo Martinez, former Basquiat forger. Allegedly. Now he's just a regular artist. He even has a piece in MoMA's collection in New York city where he also lives. Our episode today was produced by ABI shy artsy fact-checked by Victoria Domingas engineered by Paul mousey and edited by Sean Rama's for him. This is today explained.