0 (1s):
This is advertiser content.

1 (4s):
Facebook leads the industry in stopping bad actors online that's because they've invested $13 billion in teams and technology to enhance safety. Over the last five years, it's working in just the past few months, they've taken down 1.7 billion fake accounts to stop bad actors from doing harm, but working to reduce harmful and elicit content on their platforms is never done. Learn more about how they're helping people connect and share safely and about.fb.com/safety.

0 (45s):
It's an explained I'm Sean Robinson, and I'm sure you've noticed that we've reached the point in this pandemic where ideas that used to seem unscientific or fringy are now being discussed more seriously, or even accepted by the large majority of us. That lab leak theory, that was a total conspiracy until maybe not those cloth masks will do the trick until maybe not schools should remain closed. Well, probably not. Or maybe even kids shouldn't wear masks at school anymore.

3 (1m 15s):
For two years, having kids learn masked, not really seeing their teachers' faces or their friends' faces, this is likely not going to be a no-cost intervention. You know, we're seeing some anecdotal evidence start to pop up that masks are exacerbating speech delays. It's harder for language acquisition. It impedes social emotional skills and, and facial recognition. They're obviously harder to communicate in this

0 (1m 40s):
Marjorie smell. Kinson, she's an infectious disease scientist based in Maryland.

3 (1m 46s):
This is a layer that we can eliminate because it's not backed up by robust data. We should, we shouldn't have to wait for the data to be collected about the harms to eliminate this. If it's simply just not backed up by data, that it's significantly reducing stress.

0 (2m 2s):
It's worth noting here that almost half the country isn't waiting, they've gone ahead and lifted school mass mandates. If they ever had them to begin with, and those places with unmasked kids, they got just as much COVID as places with kids wearing masks. Dr. Smell Kunsan recently joined forces with a few fellow doctors to make an argument directed at all those places that still have mask mandates in schools, the blue states, they wrote the case against masks at schools for the Atlantic. And we asked her to make the case on the show today, we started with the data

3 (2m 36s):
This year, nearly half of school districts don't have mask mandates. So we're actually able to make these comparisons between districts with, and without masking and controlling for things like community, transmission and vaccination rates and demographics. And again, we're, we're seeing very little difference in case rates in schools, between schools that have masking and those that have optional policies. There were a couple of other CDC studies this year that were conducted in the early fall, everyone 12 and up had eligibility for vaccines. And they actually did show that masking did reduce spread, but these studies were very heavily flawed. They didn't control for vaccination rates.

3 (3m 18s):
And when these studies were conducted, breakthroughs were very rare unlike now. But, you know, back when these studies were conducted controlling for vaccination rates, when looking at cases was a huge confounder because areas with higher vaccination rates had less spread everywhere, including schools, and those areas also tended to have more mask mandates. So it wasn't really fair to conclude that it was masks reducing spread in school when it was much more likely that it was the lower rates of transmission in the communities with higher vaccination rates. For example, one of the studies, almost all of the schools that were mask optional were in the district with lower vaccination rates.

3 (4m 0s):
So it was much more likely that it was that causing the increase in spread in those schools. We see Areas that had masked mandates usually had other measures in place, especially in the beginning of the pandemic, you know, areas that implemented mask mandates earlier typically had more business closures limits on gatherings, more cautious behavior and just, you know, tighter lockdowns. And so it, it may have been these other things that were driving case rates down and not specifically masking, but at this point in the pandemic, we're two years in, we really need robust evidence that these interventions are working and that they way outweigh the harms and mask mandates at school.

3 (4m 45s):
At this point, especially with children now eligible for vaccination, it just doesn't meet the standard.

0 (4m 51s):
So you would argue that there is no clear evidence that shows that masking in schools at this point in the pandemic is making a big enough difference for the CDCs current guidelines

3 (5m 4s):
Say that if there is a benefit at this point, it does, it's not outweighing any potential harms. There's some countries that never masked students, several countries in Scandinavia, never mass students or teachers. And there's many more countries that follow the who, which only masks kids under 12, very sparingly. And they don't mask kids under five. And even as we were writing this, there was a report out of the UK that showed that COVID related absences were very similar between their schools that had mask optional. And those that had mask mandates. And I just want to say that in the UK, they typically don't mask kids under 12. So this is really just at the secondary level, the CDC in contrast, they don't make any distinctions.

3 (5m 49s):
They just say everyone two and up in schools has to mask all the time.

0 (5m 55s):
And what would you say to someone out there who's maybe got an immunocompromised grandmother at home and they're scared that if their kids go to school on masks, they might bring home COVID and get grandma's sick. Would you say that that's going to happen anyway? Or would you say that it's worth it?

3 (6m 11s):
We have to look at the data and if the masks haven't really been that effective, then this is going to happen. Anyway, with our current policies, there have been calls for some people to use better high quality masks. And I don't think that this is a reasonable to mandate this for kids. There's not really data that they're going to work much better in a school setting, particularly how our kids wear masks. They're generally less comfortable. They do have to be tightly fitted. So it's not really appropriate to mandate this, but for those high risk individuals that want the heightened protection or live with someone that is high risk, they can wear higher quality mask that fits tightly to the face.

3 (6m 54s):
They can learn how to fit, tested, and, and, you know, make sure it's tight. And that's where this idea of one way masking comes in, where you can wear a mask and be protected without having to rely on everyone else taking the same level of precautions. So this one way masking is what some public health officials are calling for. As we pivot into mask optional policies

0 (7m 18s):
In your article, in the Atlantic, the case against masks in schools, you don't really spend too much time focused on the politics at hand here, but I mean, it's impossible to ignore that. Basically what you're saying is that all of those red state politicians and all of those, you know, vigilant, and, and in some cases, even borderline violent anti maskers, we're kind of right about something here did, did, did that occur to you

3 (7m 49s):
When you're a scientist or public health official, you have to evolve your stance. My stance has even evolved. And in the beginning, it, it made sense to support mass. We didn't have vaccines. We had to really do whatever it took to, to limit spread. I mean, I even had a op ed around this time last year, titled mandate masks, not metrics because in Maryland where I lived, our schools were waiting to meet just an insane metric set by the CDC to open, to open our schools. Well, you know, we were looking at neighboring states and seeing they were open. And generally these schools that were open, they had mass mandates seem to be working, even if we couldn't state for sure that it was masks, but, you know, as a temporary measure to get the schools open, you know, sure.

3 (8m 37s):
You know, I will put a mask on, my kid just opened their schools. It was supposed to be a temporary measure, but my stance evolved and it evolved with the wide availability of vaccines. So now, you know, we miss this other logical off-ramp by having vaccines available to everyone five and up, and you know, it's still not into discussion. And unfortunately the vaccine eligibility or availability aligned with the surge of Omicron. So it kind of took that discussion off the table, but cases are easing kids have had access to vaccines for about three months. Now it's time to take a look at the data because I don't think two years of masking kids, or maybe even more is going to be some benign intervention.

3 (9m 18s):
It's going to have consequences. And it's not really feeling like a temporary mitigation measure anymore. The mask has really become a political symbol. I think that there's some people that are going to keep masking no matter what the data says. And sadly, I think a lot of public health officials have dug in their heels and it's, it's hard to change course and admit that maybe they were overstating the benefits, but that is science. And when you have a hypothesis, you test it. And if it doesn't work, you change your hypothesis.

0 (9m 52s):
And talking about unmasking kids in schools feels like an entry point to talking about unmasking, everyone in general, does this lead to a conversation about the rest of us taking our masks off?

3 (10m 6s):
Yeah, I mean, I really was focusing on the kids because I really see the harms during development. You know, it's also, there's harms for adults too. It's harder to communicate. It's harder to make those social connections. It's all about the vaccination rate. When you look at cases and hospitalizations or at least hospitalizations, and we crunched our own numbers out of Maryland districts, and we found that there was a very sharp correlation between hospitalization rates and vaccination rates, but not the mass mandate policy. Do you feel

0 (10m 41s):
Frustrated with the

3 (10m 42s):
CDC? Yes. I feel like they are very slow to, to pivot on any policies. They were slow to acknowledge that schools could open. They were slow to acknowledge that you could reduce physical distancing and they were ignoring that all of these places were already doing it and not really taking in that data. They were very slow to acknowledge that test to stay, could be used in schools as a, a quarantine modification technique. And I think that what is going to happen is there's a lot of lost trust in our public health officials and our CDC because people can see the neighboring state has normal schools while our kids are still massed and having silent lunch.

3 (11m 30s):
And I think that, you know, if we want to start regaining this trust, our public health officials need to start really looking at the data and making decisions that are based on that evidence and really start prioritizing children because they have carried the weight of this pandemic on their shoulders and being the least at risk. So they've been very, very, very slow. And I think that they've lost a lot of trust and it's going to be very hard to regain.

4 (12m 8s):
I am Jeremy Martin and I'm nine years old and I live in the district of Columbia. My name is Natalie Martin. I am 10 years old. I live in the district of Columbia and I am in fifth grade. I was in first grade when the pandemic started. So I started my second grade and I barely knew my teacher's face. And it was really weird. I hate them, but I know that they're better for me. And I especially hate it when people tell me to put my mask up because it's like, I love talking.

4 (12m 48s):
I talk a whole lot. And just with the shape of my face. And she put the masks that I wear, they fall down when I talk. So they get to like down here. Sometimes it's just bothersome because teachers are always saying, they're always saying, I want you to participate. I want you to talk. And then when people's masks fall down, because they're talking, they get mad and that's really annoying. Sometimes

2 (13m 23s):
People

4 (13m 24s):
Know that this is hard. And they're always thinking about how hard it is for us and how hard it is for the teachers there. Right? It's hard for the teachers, but this is really building on the kids. And we're trying to kind of push the limits to see where the boundaries are and to find out when enough is enough,

2 (14m 6s):
This is advertiser content,

5 (14m 11s):
Facebook safety teams protect billions of people each month. They lead the industry in stopping bad actors online. That's because they've invested more than $13 billion in the last five years, quadrupling their safety and security teams to 40,000 people and investing in industry leading AI technology to enhance safety on their platforms. It's working in just the last few months. They've taken action on 1.7 billion fake accounts, 30 million violent and graphic posts, 32.8 million explicit adult posts, 7.1 million terrorism related posts, and 3.8 million drugs and firearms sales posts, but working to reduce harmful and Alyssa content on their platforms is never done. Keeping your feed safe will continue to be everyone's priority at Facebook.

5 (14m 52s):
Learn more about how they're helping people connect and share safely at about.fb.com/safety.

0 (15m 7s):
Dylan Scott, your senior correspondent@box.com. You recently wrote about why the CDC is so bad at speaking to Americans as of late. Why, why, why?

6 (15m 22s):
So we're living through a global pandemic, the likes of which no one has ever seen before. So, you know, I think it's worth reminding people of that and reminding people that, that the CDC has been trying to navigate ground, that the nobody's really had to go through before. So this is tough. And like, you know, America is a big country. It's a, it's a politically and culturally fractured country. And so it's not necessarily easy to come up with like some simple message that everybody is going to hear and understand and adhere to what is become unavoidable at this point in the pandemic is that like the CDC has failed largely in its communications campaign, like over

0 (16m 5s):
And over and over again, know

6 (16m 7s):
Over and over and over again. So the most recent example was when the CDC rose revised its guidelines for isolating after somebody tests positive, as COVID

7 (16m 18s):
Cases, surge the CDC cutting the recommended isolation period from 10 days to five, if you test positive, but are asymptomatic. The new guidance comes as the Omicron variant exploded over the Christmas holiday.

6 (16m 30s):
They shortened the isolation period from 10 to five days. And they actually said like, for most people, like after the five days, you don't even need like a negative test.

8 (16m 40s):
And the CDC under growing scrutiny after recommending people infected with COVID isolate for five days instead of 10, but there wasn't any guidance to get a test at the end of those five days,

6 (16m 50s):
You can just basically assume that you're fine and, and go back about your life. And like,

0 (16m 55s):
And then came the memes,

9 (16m 58s):
NA CDC actually says it's six inches apart. Now is that bigger stuff?

10 (17m 2s):
The CDC is now recommending apple bottom jeans from,

6 (17m 10s):
And I think the fact that the CDC became a punchline was the moment that really cinched for me. Like we have bungled this so badly that people are looking at the foremost public health authority in the United States and what is still the middle of a public health emergency and making jokes at its expense and specifically making jokes about its inability to craft effective and sort of meaningful messages and recommendations for people.

11 (17m 41s):
Hey mom, it's me. Well, Hey, I wanted to see if you saw what the CDC is now recommending or you haven't seen it. Yeah. They said that they recommend that kids stay with their grandparents this weekend. Yeah. Okay. Well I'm sure you'll see it. We'll be buying 15 minutes

0 (18m 2s):
Back to the beginning of the pandemic. Where did the CDCs trip ups begin with the coronavirus?

6 (18m 9s):
It goes all the way back to the very beginning of the pandemic. When the CDC told most Americans like you don't need to wear a mask to protect yourself against this respiratory virus, right?

12 (18m 21s):
The CDC recommends only people with the Corona virus symptoms wear a mask, not the healthy people, trying to prevent themselves from getting sick.

6 (18m 29s):
It was really confusing because like federal health officials, you know, tended to frame it as like, well, you know, a lot people are really bad about not touching their face and like, you know, basically giving people the impression that mass just straight up unambiguously probably didn't work that well. But at the same time, it was clear. Like they were trying to reserve the supply of mass for healthcare workers, people working in medical settings for whom it would be the most valuable, at least at the start of that, of a public health emergency when hospitals were being overwhelmed with COVID patients. And we were still kind of figuring out how our health system was going to be able to manage, but like that, wasn't the message from the CDC.

6 (19m 12s):
It was this kind of muddle message of like, man, we're not really sure if they work or like, people are really bad at wearing masks, so they're not used to it. So like, eh, just don't, don't don't bother wearing masks for right now. What comes

0 (19m 25s):
Next?

6 (19m 26s):
What really kind of reinforced for a lot of people, how like confusing this was is like within a month, the CDC completely reversed itself and basically advised everyone to wear a mask all the time. At least when they're out in public or around other people. So the message went from like outside, right? Yeah. Don't wear a mask and like, you know, cause people are bad at it and we don't even know if they work too. Like you must wear a mask as much as possible. And so I think that right there, and that's, you know, the first month of the pandemic, when everybody's scared, everybody's trying to figure out what they're supposed to do. And they're getting these completely conflicting messages from, you know, the public health authority and whom you would think they would place the most trust.

6 (20m 9s):
About a year later in the April of 2021, the CDC initially was telling vaccinated people, you know, you need to keep wearing a mask, you know, to reduce transmission. And then within a matter of weeks, it completely reversed itself again and said like actually vaccinated people, you know, you can feel free not to wear a mask in doors unless it's, you know, required by your state or local government,

13 (20m 35s):
Fully vaccinated. People no longer have to wear masks or socially distance. Except if you go to most places anyway,

6 (20m 44s):
I have fun out there. And that was once again, a case of like, well, is this what the science is saying? Or there was a lot of kind of speculation of like, well, we need to tell vaccinated people that they don't need to wear masks because that will encourage people to get vaccinated because they're tired of wearing masks. And so once again, it became like, like, is there some sort of like some ulterior motive for, for changing this guidance? Or like, are they just quote unquote following the science, which has been like what federal health officials have repeated again and again, like we're just following the science and then they

0 (21m 18s):
Roll that one back to write the

6 (21m 19s):
Delta variance certainly kind of changed the calculus when it came around. And like, it was much more transmissible than the variants that had come before it and you know, was driving a new surgeon infections. But yeah, we, within a matter of months we had the CDC saying, but now

14 (21m 35s):
CDC recommendations stand that if in fact you are vaccinated fully vaccinated, you are protected and you do not need to wear a mask outdoors or indoors.

6 (21m 44s):
And so like, you know, understandably I think it left a lot of people, first of all, with just their heads spinning, maybe, literally not knowing what they're supposed to do at any given time, but I think it also helped to, so a lot of distrust, you know, I gave, I think a lot of ammunition to the people who have wanted to undermine the CDCs authority of like, look how like arbitrary these decisions are. I mean, the,

15 (22m 8s):
Of bad data that has been purveyed by our supposed public health experts is astonishing. If you want to talk about the people who have actually undermined confidence in our institutions, it's the leaders of these institutions

6 (22m 17s):
Themselves, or can you really trust anything that these guys are saying? And certainly from some of the conversations I've had with communications experts, it's, it's kind of created this worst case scenario where like the people who want to follow the rules don't really know what they're supposed to do. And the people who might be skeptical of the rules are finding all kinds of justifications for why they don't need to trust the CDC and other health officials and on,

0 (22m 42s):
And get into the confusion on boosters. But we, we covered that on the show. So we can leave that for now, help me understand why the CDC hasn't done a better job. We know it was sort of an unprecedented pandemic for this country and the rest of the world. And, and we could have expected some slip-ups, but the number here and the, the gravity feels substantial. And exceptional

6 (23m 7s):
Weeks ago, I asked like a dozen or so people who specialize in health communication specifically, I asked them this question, like, why are we so bad at this? And, you know, I think they, there were a variety of responses. Everybody kind of has their own theories, but if I were to distill it down to two things, I would say that one, they were left trying to defend poor policies that didn't necessarily have a strong scientific basis. So this recent change to the isolation guidelines is I think a good example of that, the other sort of distinct, but related reason that I think they've struggled so much to communicate is sometimes they're, they're basically trying to communicate their way out of a policy problem rather than like, rather than making a difficult policy decision.

6 (23m 51s):
They're trying to like massage the situation with some kind of clever messaging from everyone that I've spoken to a communication strategy that relied on transparency that relied on being Frank with people about some of the difficult trade-offs that come with all of these public health policies and being very direct with people that like the situation is going to change. And we are going to have to update our public health guidance as the situation changes. You know, though, that would have been sort of the foundation of a more effective communication strategy. So basically what

0 (24m 25s):
The thing is, they could have done a lot better if they expressed a little more uncertainty, right? The problem here is the certainty they've expressed that rules from God are this until God changes his mind. And then all of a sudden you lose your faith in God. Yes,

6 (24m 40s):
Exactly. I think that is a wonderful metaphysical way to put it. You know, one in particular expert, I talked to Brianna mesic at the university of Michigan. She was so frustrated with the idea that we kept saying, well, we're following the science. And there were two reasons for that. One was the science is going to change. And so like you, you, the science one day might not be the science the next day. And if you say you're following the science that, that that's going to leave people kind of like confused. It doesn't really prepare them for that fact that the situation is going to evolve. And the other part of it is like, there were always more considerations than just the science or the public health impact.

6 (25m 21s):
Like there were, there were social and economic factors to, you know, affects of the pandemic that, you know, political leaders had an obligation to consider. And, you know, we're, we are making trade-offs between public health and the economy and, you know, teaching our kids and et cetera, and so forth. Like none of this is easy. People know that there's more to consider here than just quote unquote the science, whatever the science may be at a given time, if

0 (25m 47s):
It was like the faith lost in the CDC is sort of a reparable in this pandemic, but what's it going to take? Is it going to take another pandemic where the messaging is clear and the policies feel tailored to the moment for the CDC to sort of recuperate its reputation?

6 (26m 6s):
I think there have certainly been, you know, lessons learned and, you know, I, I certainly think it will be a process to restore trust in the CDC and to kind of reset the relationship between the public and our public health leaders. People are working on this. There was a, a long kind of paper retrospective written by a group out of the national academies of science that, that looked at specifically some of the communications failures and they, you know, and they, they are trying to, you know, assess what went wrong and think about how we could do better in the future. Simple messages are, you know, it sounds maybe like the most obvious thing in the world, but like simple messages make all the difference.

6 (26m 54s):
If there's like one example of a public health message that I do think resonated and had the desired effect, at least for a time, it was probably flattened the curve. That's a pretty simple message we're trying to flatten the curve. It's just three words. It communicated. What is ultimately a PR kind of complicated idea of like, we're trying to at least suppress the spread of the virus and the number of infections at any given time in order to prevent hospital symptoms for being overwhelmed. And like the ways we do that are taking precautions and wearing masks, social distancing, et cetera, and so forth. But like at least for a time, you know, that flatten the curve was, was a clear message that people grasp at least sort of the, the broad strokes of even if they didn't understand all the intricacies that were embedded in it and it, and it gave them something sort of to, to rally around The U S is a diverse country.

6 (27m 51s):
It's huge, we've got a lot of political and cultural differences, but I think, you know, drawing on some of those lessons of, of radical transparency, really simple messaging could hopefully give us a better rubric to handle, you know, to, to communicate with one another, the next time something like this happens.

0 (28m 20s):
I don't Scott writes about health@vox.com Victoria Chamberlin produced today's show a theme, Shapiro mixed and mastered bathroom collect edited. And Laura Bullard fact-check. This is today explained,

2 (29m 1s):
This is advertiser content.

5 (29m 4s):
Facebook has invested $13 billion in teams and technology to enhance safety over the last five years. And the past few months they've taken down 1.7 billion fake accounts. Learn more about their ongoing work at about.fb.com/safety.