1 (1s):
Support for the shutter day comes from Michelle Obama's podcast. It's called the Michelle Obama podcast and you know where you can find it right now not wherever you find your podcasts but on Spotify the streaming service the series brings listeners inside the former first lady's most candid and personal conversations showing listeners what's possible when they allow themselves to be vulnerable? Have you been vulnerable lately start now with the Michelle Obama podcast. Listen free at Spotify. Mom, Michelle

3 (31s):
Obama Today today is mine.

1 (38s):
I don't know about you, but I miss the movies. I miss going to the AMC or the Regal to see whatever faster Furious installment has come out. I miss having a good cry watching the mr. Rogers documentary at the independent East Street Cinema here in DC and everything in between. I miss it all but the good news is the movies are coming back and now you can risk it all to see Christopher Nolan's tenant. Vox film critic Alyssa Wilkinson is here today to tell you whether it's worth it and also to delve deeper into what was lost along the way we're going to start back in March because March was the last time many of us went to the movies.

1 (1m 20s):
What was it for you Alyssa? I think I think my last movie theater was portrait of a lady on fire. What was he even in theaters? Other than that? I don't really recall marches and typically the best time for the movies. So there's the Invisible Man is in the theaters. Oh, yeah. I'm with the Mad Men. Yes with Elisabeth Moss really good movie. The movie first cow had just come out like maybe two days earlier which is quite a way and a cow two guys in a cow actually through baking things on the Prairie. I remember the Vin Diesel movie came out and then was like, we're gonna bring people together to celebrate movies in a movie theaters and I was like put Vin that's what you don't want to do

3 (2m 3s):
right now. We're at the premiere watching this movie. With people because what we're realizing in this time as how much we love to be amongst other people.

1 (2m 14s):
I know it took a while for a lot of people to figure out what was actually going on and that the virus wasn't scared of our bravado

3 (2m 23s):
was that

1 (2m 23s):
movie called? I don't even have a mass with that remember blood sport or something like that. No, that's not it but it was something to that effect. Let me find out. Yeah bloodshot it your I was close. Yeah. I do not see bloodshot. Um, what happened to the movies after bloodshot all across the country movie theaters basically shut down within about a week in mid-march, basically because you know state governments didn't want people gathering in an enclosed space for the might pass the virus around it seems pretty reasonable and you know movie theaters in the best of times or maybe not the cleanest places in the world. Maybe not the greatest fresh air exchange rate people eating and drinking so so theaters shut down and that also meant that all of the movies that were slated to come out started to get pushed off the release calendar, especially Blockbusters because of course if you've shot a movie for hundreds of millions of dollars, you need people to buy tickets to it in order to recoup your costs.

1 (3m 25s):
And so people thought well this thing can't last more than a few months and we'll just release it later. So one of movie that got moved pretty quickly was the new James Bond movie and then some You were rescheduled for State June and then to

3 (3m 40s):
kind of rolled around and became clear that this was not a

1 (3m 43s):
thing you could do really because theaters are still shut down and cases. They're spiking, you know, the Wonder Woman movie got moved another and probably the most visible one is tenet Christopher Nolan's tenant. Okay, we'll get to tenant in a minute. But let's talk about how the movies adjusted to a world in which, you know, they couldn't come out in theatres. It wasn't just Just American pickle right American pickle is a great

3 (4m 10s):
example. It's been 100 years the pickle brine preserved him perfectly. No, that one's on HBO Max or

1 (4m 21s):
you know, I think one of the best movies I've seen all year is driveways.

3 (4m 25s):
Hi, I'm turning on and I wanted to invite you to my pizza party on Thursday at the roller skating rink.

1 (4m 34s):
Thank you, which practically nobody saw it but it's a great small art how Cindy and it's just kind of a quiet drama that would have done pretty well in an insert of your small local independent theater. But almost nobody I've talked to his heard of it. And of course first cow

3 (4m 50s):
everyone loves first cow, when they see it. You have a count First Co in the Taylor coming same place for cows. That's no place when white man, you know, I love first cow.

1 (5m 0s):
That's a great movie. I sort of saw it. Last fall and then I saw it again this summer and then I immediately baked a clafouti which is a French dessert in the film or that that's kind of significance actually turns out it's not too hard to make but Alyssa, we didn't talk about Bill and Ted three. Yeah, so Bill and Ted three did actually get delayed I think by a few weeks, but it's just opened and it is currently in theaters and Drive-ins and you can rent it or buy it digitally. And I loved it. Absolutely what have we learned along the way about how willing people are to support this industry from home.

1 (5m 44s):
When you take movie theaters out of the experience has Hollywood said like oh this could work or is it sort of a failed experiment? It's it's honestly in this is funny to say six months in but it's still hard to tell. So for instance trolls to trolls World Tour did end up releasing. On digital Platforms in this was very early, like maybe the end of March and because of the timing parents were desperate cooped up with their children who've watched every episode of who knows what show on Netflix a thousand times or they're just like tired of Daniel Tiger or whatever it is that they're washing. And so, of course, you know, we're all cooped up were sad.

1 (6m 25s):
We're going to rents choles World Tour, even if it costs 20 dollars or whatever cost and so the movie made a healthy sum of money. Like how much like well over a hundred million which is comparable to what it would have made in the theater. And of course at that point everyone who watches the industry wants to say, oh that that proves that people don't need theaters anymore. And I'm not so sure it does, you know on the flip side lots of other movies came out that people didn't watch because they're watching the office again on Loop or they didn't know it came out or they think oh, I'd like to see that someday, but then they Don't see it right because there's billions of hours of Netflix to watch the lesson we have here is first of all that we can't take lessons from anecdotes and that different movies have different kinds of circumstances around them.

1 (7m 18s):
And that's always true. If you know, you can't if Hollywood had figured out how to make a Surefire hit they just be doing that constantly now and then on top of it, I think the impetus to watch the new thing probably isn't as great as it is when it's Tied to an event like oh we're going to get friends together. We're going to buy tickets and we're going to go to the theater and you know have popcorn or maybe you go to a fancy theater and have a cocktail and it's like a cheap night out that does seem to drive the way that some people watch movies. So while we've been at home watching trolls to and friends and you know, the entirety of The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air on HBO Max, what's the fight to reopen movie theaters?

1 (8m 3s):
Unlike in the United States at least it's been pretty wild one challenge we have in the u.s. Is that we have 50 Governors who decide these things for 50 different places, then even then you have a very large State like California. It's sometimes hard to know how the north is different from the south or whatever. So that's been a challenge because there are theater owners who've been really upset that they can't reopen their theaters when maybe they had like two cases this Higher time in their County because they're in northern Maine or something like that. And on the flip side, there's been people who have argued that well if we're in a state where a church is allowed to open, why can't we open a movie theater and then on to make matters worse, even if you were to open your theater, or you were allowed to open your theater, you might not have any movies to really put in it because the Studios have moved all the summer movies into the fall or into 20 21.

1 (8m 59s):
And so what you end up with is a situation where you could Open your Fiat errs, I believe as of a month ago, you could open theaters legally in 80% of markets in the US but most of those markets still didn't have the theaters open because the cost of opening the theater paying the staff, you know, just basic operations costs. We're never going to be balanced out by how many tickets you could sell in a theater that you could only fill two baby 30% capacity. And so until there was stuff that they knew people. People would come and see a lot of people just elected to say close but like in New York City and Los Angeles, you can't have a movie theater open.

1 (9m 42s):
Those are two huge movie-going markets. And if you can't have a theater open in those two cities than Hollywood is not usually going to open a movie at all that's changing right now. How is it changing? So the big way that it's changing that we can tell is that Christopher Nolan's

3 (10m 1s):
tenets. It

1 (10m 4s):
eventually opens in Europe and across the world last week because theaters have been open in the UK and across Europe for a while what you saying that like countries that did a better job of this can go back to normal life as it turns out that's true imagine that so that movie has opened already, but it is opening in the US this week in some places. It's not opening in New York. It's not opening in Los Angeles because there's nowhere to open it but Opening in Pennsylvania. It's opening in Connecticut. Its opening in Virginia. So it's opening in states where theaters are open and in some cases it is literally opening the theater or maybe they opens last weekend to show Bill and Ted and make sure that things are in good working order.

1 (10m 52s):
Is it an accident that Christopher Nolan who is this, you know devotee of of Cinema as an art form and movie theaters as the ideal place to see his work this guy who's committed to shooting for IMAX with the right cameras and the right technology and the right teams and the right effects is somehow bringing movie theaters back. It is not at all an accident. I think, you know early on Nolan wrote an op-ed for the Washington Post where he basically said

2 (11m 27s):
movie theaters have gone dark and will stay that way for a time but movies unlike Produce all done and interest don't cease to be of value much of the short-term loss is recoverable when this crisis passes the need for Collective human engagements the need to live and love and laugh and cry together will be more powerful than ever.

1 (11m 53s):
I think he's right, but also he is a known pedantic person about theaters. He specifies many things. He cares very deeply about how his films are Scene, I remember seeing Interstellar in theaters and there were no trailers before it started on the IMAX screen, which is so rare that you see Zero trailers. It just went straight to Interstellar. Hmm. Yeah, he really thinks of it as a kind of all-encompassing experience, which is honestly a very old school way to look at films that is adopted by some, you know, the some of the directors we think of the most today like Quentin Tarantino, is that way as well. They're very committed to making films that many many people want to see That also are up to very exacting standards and like Christopher.

1 (12m 39s):
Nolan really doesn't want you to see tenant on an iPhone. I think as David Lynch put it a long time ago when people were starting to watch movies on their telephones he say I believe he said now if you're

3 (12m 49s):
playing the movie

2 (12m 52s):
on a telephone you will never in a trillion

3 (12m 57s):
years experience the film you'll think you have experienced it. It but you'll be cheated. It's a such a sadness that you think you've seen a film on your fucking telephone get real

1 (13m 16s):
still good nothing but respect to David and Clinton and Christopher, but is there a chance that we're not ready for this gift of communal movies? It feels like there's a chance so there is a chance of that but it's hard to predict so, you know, certainly Just have talked a lot about whether movie theaters are safe. And many of them have said no, you know on the other hand we have gyms opening this week which to me a movie theater seemed safer than a gym, but I don't know. I mean if people in you know, the Northern parts of Vermont want to see tenant should they be allowed to or should they not be allowed to because Iowa is a mess right now, right?

1 (13m 59s):
Like these are the questions that people are asking and it's very complicated to answer. Sir, but the fact that theaters are open abroad suggest that a movie like a Christopher Nolan film which was going to make a ton of money worldwide. Maybe shouldn't be held up by America. Have you gone and seen ten in the movie theater yet? Alyssa. I have you have I have I know is it it's

3 (14m 27s):
it's okay. I very technically But since many reviewers have said that it is very confusing and I agree with this. So would you Alyssa Wilkinson risk it all to see Christopher Nolan's tenant. No, I wouldn't risk it all to see any movie. I find you know, I've been reading stories about people who are like

1 (14m 54s):
flying to other places to

3 (14m 57s):
see a movie and I just I

1 (14m 60s):
write about movies for a living but every movie ever

3 (15m 3s):
Made is basically available to people right now and waiting a month

1 (15m 8s):
is not going to be a problem or three months or whatever. No movie is ever worth your life. But on the other hand,

3 (15m 17s):
you know, I think a lot of people with a Nolan movie in

1 (15m 19s):
particular are worried about being spoiled on it and I can I think say that this movie is basically spoiler proof because the plot is so kind of backwards and upside down that describing it won't mean anything till you see it on screen. Thinking like it'll be on one of the services by Christmas and that's when I watch it. I think that's right.

3 (15m 53s):
Alyssa is got a theory that the Hiatus we took from going to the movies this year might forever change the American summer blockbuster. That's after a quick

2 (16m 2s):
break.

1 (16m 17s):
Have you guys ever been to a website titled Spotify.com Michelle Obama? If you go there you will find the Michelle Obama podcast because it's now out on Spotify Michelle talks to her brother. She talks to her husband. She talks to some of her best friends if you listen to a lot of public radio, you will recognize one of them. Her name is Michele Norris famous from public radio. Anyway, Michelle's hope is that this There is gonna be a place to explore meaningful topics together and sort through some of the questions were all trying to answer in our own lives. Perhaps most of all Michelle Obama says this podcast will help listeners open up new conversations and hard conversations with the people who matter most to them and honestly what better time than to have important conversations with the people who matter most to you.

1 (17m 9s):
There's very little else to do start those conversations with Michelle Obama Spotify. dot-com Michelle Obama Alyssa we're going to get tenant. But what have we lost along the way when it comes to the movies? Yeah. I mean one thing we've lost for sure is some movie theaters. Some are never going to be able to reopen another thing that we may have lost to some of our Illusions about Hollywood's place in the world. And we also, you know, we have literally lost. A lot of movies that might have been made that now are going to get pushed out of the way for bigger budget films at the studios and all of that really pales in comparison to actual human life lost obviously, but it's sobering it's another indicator of what we've experienced over the last six months Shirley.

1 (18m 10s):
Yeah. Well, let's talk about some of that. So what movies or Productions have we just for sure lost forever? Well, you know, it's hard to say. Because they just don't exist. I think what is true is that it is more expensive to make a movie now than it used to be because there are extra precautions that now need to be taken whether it's sanitation or its testing people every day or two on set and those costs rack up and they're going to go towards the big ticket items. They're going to go towards the Jurassic world's and the mission Impossibles. And so Studios may be hesitant. To then put out extra money for a movie that would be more of a risk or maybe more of an artistic film that they're not really sure is a Surefire hit or an original story that doesn't have a built-in audience.

1 (19m 0s):
So you would see the arguments being made in the before times that studios are more risk-averse these days. They just want to do 10 poll summer Blockbusters sequel adaptation type Fair. They're not interested in original movies about people dealing with human things and you're saying that's going Even more so the case now. Yeah, I think in nearly every case with the pandemic did as accelerate some trends that were already there and make it more plausible for people to get away with accelerating those Trends and this is probably going to be one of them. How about movie theaters? Do we have any idea how many theaters in the country across the world have permanently shut down like it seems like the big chains the AMC's The Regals are still around.

1 (19m 46s):
Yeah. Yeah. The big ones are still around. Is it you know in right now? It's still kind of hard to tell because there were a number of maybe smaller theaters or smaller chains. And even the big ones that stayed afloat on loans from the government or you know on money they had saved or donations from the community that they serve and so right now it's unclear who will close we still have months to go if not years before we To really see the full impact. Let's talk about that other thing you mentioned which seems a little more amorphous that Hollywood may have lost some of its footing in the world.

1 (20m 30s):
How do you mean so you know, I started thinking earlier this summer when it became clear that there would be literally no summer Blockbusters about the history of the

2 (20m 41s):
Blockbuster.

1 (20m 45s):
And know ever since Jaws came out in the early 70s Hollywood summer Blockbusters have been kind of a big part of the movie-going experience and one of our big big

3 (20m 56s):
exports to the rest of the world whether it was movie

1 (20m 59s):
like, oh, I don't know Armageddon

3 (21m 2s):
or Independence Day or

1 (21m 5s):
Men In

3 (21m 5s):
Black, right or any Jurassic Park Indiana Jones all of these movies, right? And they all kind of follow a similar pattern, which is for the most part. They're pretty Stick like the world is going to end in some way. Those are always the stakes and they're usually salts by like heroic Americans whether those heroic Americans are like Ordinary People or scientists or the president who's like gonna lead us hard against the Flying Saucer. We're fighting for our right to live. To exist I'm or oil drillers. They're going to go to the moon right? There's like this nationalism or this patriotism to the Hollywood summer blockbuster. And that's very calculated.

3 (21m 45s):
The idea is you you go to movies and you see yourself and then you get kind of excited and inspired by it. And you feel like Yay like we're going to save the day I lived in I lived in Chile for a year once and my host father whenever we watch movie, he'd say umbrellas Gringo. Salvano Mundo Siempre, which one's better. Always the Americans got to come in save the world. Let's hear it for Captain America. Yep, and that's because this is a Stories We want to tell ourselves about ourselves and they're super fun in that has held right into the comic book are aware sort of the twin Heroes of the Avengers movies among all the other heroes are literally Captain America and Tony Stark who stands for American innovation and capitalism and all this stuff.

3 (22m 41s):
So that story kind of concluded that summer literally end game hi. And and now we're in this sort of strange period this year where we didn't have those movies and if you were lucky enough to go to a theater or a drive in and see a blockbuster this summer. It probably was Jurassic Park. Really? Yes, highest-grossing film of the week was a movie

1 (23m 20s):
from decades ago about

3 (23m 22s):
dinosaurs. I'm simply saying that life fine. Away, it does feel like some sort of like Poetic Justice that the

1 (23m 36s):
year that America literally sort of not only failed the world but also just failed itself failed to save itself from a global pandemic is also the year where we kind of didn't have this sort of American Myth so pervasive in our movie theaters. Yeah. It's certainly possible for people to tell themselves the story in which we're still the hero, but I don't know how easy that is to do if you're actually looking at the facts. That being said, I mean the Yanks are still trying to get to Mars. The Yanks are still building electric cars. The Yanks are still going to have drones deliver that toilet paper to your house in like an hour or whatever.

1 (24m 21s):
We're still doing. Okay in some measures. Is there a chance that this is just the year that the angst tanked and then next year. We'll be back to save the world. I mean what you're suggesting is does this sequel? To this year put us back on a high note. Yeah in the franchise is America does the new sequel leave us more like endgame did where we fixed it, right? There's another generation coming, right? Exactly. And

3 (24m 54s):
I mean, who knows right? I guess we're

1 (24m 56s):
waiting to see we're certainly sitting wondering what's going to happen in

3 (24m 60s):
November and certainly far beyond that

1 (25m 3s):
and it also is definitely true that Blockbusters aren't going away from Hollywood. I

3 (25m 9s):
think people will keep watching them if we keep

1 (25m 11s):
making them, but I think I would point to Black

3 (25m 14s):
Panther. That is an African Story made by Americans. That's a good example of a movie that honestly the industry's did not think was going to do very well and instead it just was a massive success billions of dollars worldwide everyone went and saw it and there's a lot of possibilities and I felt as person who writes about about movies for a living that the Blockbuster had gotten very stagnant for a long time and very predictable. And so perhaps we'll discover that this summer was actually an inflection point where we started doing something new. Hmm. Let's hope so. All right, Pete Chadwick wakanda forever.

3 (25m 56s):
Yeah. Someone did mention to me yesterday that I don't know anything about Comics but I guess his sister becomes the Black Panther at some point in the comics. So oh, that's me. Credible idea. Yeah I'm all right. So surprised my little sister came to see me off before our big day you wish I'm here for the EMP because I've developed an update update know it worked perfectly. How many times do I have to teach you? Just because something works doesn't mean that it cannot be improved. You are teaching me. What do you know? What an you Alyssa Wilkinson she writes about the movies for Vox you can find her writing.

3 (26m 39s):
Summer Blockbusters at vox.com. I'm Sean promise Purim. We're off Monday for Labor Day

1 (26m 46s):
back Tuesday for today explained.

2 (26m 52s):
This is Advertiser

1 (26m 53s):
content. When I think of you glit when I think of our childhood I think of music. Music was the backdrop of everything and it could have been Dizzy

3 (27m 5s):
Gillespie or Miles Davis or Thelonious Monk. The loneliest monk was one of his faith. Thought that was

1 (27m 12s):
some made-up name. Yeah, they didn't treat their albums and music as you can't touch these usual little kids you we were taught how to use a record player properly. You can put your fingerprints on it. And then you lay it on the turntable put it on the first song and let it play.

2 (27m 31s):
That's Michelle Obama and her brother Craig Robinson on the Michelle Obama podcast. They Revisited their childhood in all its music and mischief and Magic. I'm Tori young a writer here at box creative and as I've been listening to the Michelle Obama podcast, I've been thinking about what it's like to be a kid today. We want to raise kids who are worldly and socially conscious open giving an all of the above. But we also just want them to get through. Oh these really confusing times just like we do. I reached out to a few people about how to help kids navigate and maybe even grow through those tough days.

2 (28m 12s):
This is Adam Grant. He's a professor of psychology host of the work-life podcast and co-author of the children's book The Gift Inside the Box. We

1 (28m 21s):
notice that week after week. Most of the questions that we were asking we're about achievement they were about you know, what grade you got and how many goals you scored? And I realized that we were missing out on a really important set of questions which has to do with who did you help today? And who helped you

2 (28m 40s):
today? Adam and I talked about how encouraging generosity at home begins with a simple dinner table question.

1 (28m 47s):
We saw that when we started asking them who they helped. They would look for opportunities to to help their classmates proactively and even from an early age when kids show an interest in helping their classmates and being givers rather than takers. They actually are able to connect what they're learning to a larger purpose and that's so important for building a sense of confidence and I guess also for helping kids learn to be

2 (29m 11s):
resilient. And we need our kids to be resilient right now. Our whole society is stressed and kids are taking at hard developmental psychologists are noting that children today are demonstrating more anxious behaviors fears of germs and fears of others. There's no real answer yet for how to best approach this moment. But Adam says the solution to helplessness is just asking what you can do.

1 (29m 36s):
I think sometimes we just need to go that extra step to ask to find out what it is that people are grappling with so that we can step up and help them. Hmm. That is great advice. We can all do it more often

2 (29m 48s):
Michelle Obama notes that a little Independence goes a long

1 (29m 52s):
way. Do you remember the first time at we're at Lee Road around the corner together around the block together. That was a big milestone for Mom. Yeah letting your kids be independent and you know, I think things that Mom and Dad let us do that way. Yes, what a helped our You have to teach kids how to be independent which means that at some point you got to trust them that they can make decisions on their own which now that we're parents you kind of think how hard that is. So let your kids go, you know, maybe it's just about

2 (30m 28s):
helping them be a little more open a little less afraid to fail and to recognize that they might be different than we are. This is children's book author and illustrator vashti Harrison. There is no one way to to be a kid. There's no one way to be an artist. There's no one way to be an activist. There's no one way to be a scientist. I feel like every kid has within them their own unique traits and tools and qualities and skills and superpowers that we should just support and nurture and encourage because I feel like we're going to need as many different mines and as many different voices in the future if we want to Work towards change social change social justice.

2 (31m 15s):
It's important to know that everyone can play a part not everyone has to do it in the same way and sometimes that means getting into some good trouble.

1 (31m 25s):
I remember you saying I've got a good idea.

3 (31m 29s):
We

1 (31m 29s):
can't get Mom and Dad to stop smoking. Let's break

3 (31m 32s):
all their cigarettes like sounded like a good

1 (31m 35s):
plan. It sounded like a great idea. It didn't work out that way. We got in trouble. We got in trouble again, so So much

2 (31m 42s):
trouble listen to the Michelle Obama podcast only on Spotify new episodes drop every Wednesday.