Twilio (1s):
This podcast is brought to you by Twilio, for businesses around the world, unlocking and unifying real-time customer data is critical, especially for delivering truly personalized campaigns at scale. That's why companies like Instacart into it. And IBM are turning to Twilio, which was recently ranked number one for 2020 market share and customer data platforms by IDC to learn how Twilio can help your business harness real-time data and build customer engagement like no other visit twilio.com.

Boost Mobile (31s):
You listen to podcasts for the power of knowledge. You switched to boost mobile for the power of saving money. Get three unlimited data lines for 30 bucks a month per line, and a free 5g phone when you switch. So you can get the latest episodes all on one of America's largest 5g networks, more power to save boost, mobile free phone, limited to new customers in one per line. Additional restrictions apply offer slash coverage, not avail everywhere, or for all phones slash networks. See boost mobile.com for details.

4 (1m 11s):
My name's Nicholas new Yorkers, and I'm a freelance journalist based New York. In 2014, a man started digging a hole in his backyard. He was digging a new toilet pit and he was surprised when his shovel struck a brightly colored rock people in that area that he lived, which was the suburb of Kassala in the Southern Democratic Republic of the Congo always talked about the richness below the soil. They talked about rich copper and cobalt mines that were situated near the town.

4 (1m 53s):
And in the rainy season, sometimes the soil would go green with the mineral deposits. So he discovered a seam of cobalt, which is a mineral that is used in electric car batteries, cellphone batteries, computer batteries, lithium ion batteries, and cobalt has gone through this kind of boom in the last two decades, basically because of the demand for these batteries. So he chipped away. Some cobalt took it to a local trader and the local trader said, yes, this is worth something. Actually, this is very good quality. The man came back, started digging out the cobalt himself.

4 (2m 37s):
Then he started hiring people to go down into these holes that he'd dug into his kitchen. And very soon his neighbors noticed unusual activities. They heard a sort of telltale sounds of clanging at night, And they saw people bringing out sacks of ore. And they said, this person has exploiting own parcel. Actually, he was renting when his landlord investigated, the guy fled The rest of the residents of the town, sort of said, we're setting on a goldmine hat and started digging down. There was this amazing story of a church in which the pastor and the congregation began digging into the floor of the church and stopping only for Sunday services.

4 (3m 25s):
Mayor came out and said, listen, you can't do this. The governor came out and said, listen, you can't do this. And the people said, listen, this is our soil. We want to exploit it. And at one point they began sort of stoning local officials. So the expectation of these rich seams of cobalt continued. So the town of CastleOak became completely unstable and a local road was destabilized. In fact, and it was when that collapsed. The governor said, we've got to do something about this problem.

4 (4m 8s):
Long story short, the governor, he went to a Chinese farm and his family had business dealings with that firm. And that Chinese firm acquired the right to buy cobalt off minors in that parcel. So they walled off the parcel. The town was completely leveled. They removed the top soil and they blasted down into the ground. And then they basically allowed miners to go in and start digging in the ground. And the people who were displaced were given a couple of thousand dollars or a new home in this development called semi Mackinder, which I actually visited a there's really very little bad there's no school.

4 (4m 50s):
And so they were shown these houses, but she looked beautiful in brochures. But in fact, when they arrived, they realized that were very, very poorly constructed. They leaked the well in front of the houses didn't work. There was no water, the bathrooms didn't work and so on. So it's really a desperate situation for the people who live out there. And many of the people actually just left their new homes and went in search of a better life elsewhere.

6 (5m 16s):
Nicolas, you wrote about what happened to Cosillo in an article for the new Yorker about the dark underbelly of cobalt mining in Congo. Cobalt prices are booming right now because they're needed for smartphone batteries for electric car batteries. What puts Congo at the center of that? Boom.

4 (5m 35s):
So Congress sets the top 3.4 million tons of cobalt, and it's the largest proven reserve of the mineral worldwide. What's more, the cobalt is very close to the surface. So it's very easy to mine compared to other areas where it's much deeper,

7 (5m 55s):
About 70% of the world's cobalt comes from the democratic Republic of the,

4 (6m 0s):
So it is what some officials that liked to call quote unquote, the Saudi Arabia of cobalt, referring to Saudi Arabia's rich oil deposits,

6 (6m 9s):
Which is to say sort of that this new energy era will be about cobalt. Not,

4 (6m 16s):
I guess I don't think the new energy era is necessarily simply about cobalt, but it is about battery minerals, including cobalt and cobalt is at the moment key for batteries. It stops them overheating and allows smaller battery sizes to be made. As long as that is a necessity, cobalt will be a key strategic mineral and the

6 (6m 41s):
I that it's a key strategic mineral is complicated by the politics of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

4 (6m 48s):
Yes, the strategy is complicated by the extraordinarily complex politics of Congo, which arise out of the ashes of a very violent colonization by the Belgians. A very corrupt dictatorship run by a us ally Mobutu, SESE Seko who was the dictator who ruled from the sixties all the way until the nineties, and basically strip the country bad along with his cronies and became incredibly wealthy as a result,

6 (7m 18s):
Which is to say that this thirst for cobalt isn't the first time a foreign power has come into Congo to extract a very valuable resource.

4 (7m 30s):
Absolutely not. No. So the Belgians came and extracted first rubber, which was known as red, rubber, because they were so violent and their means of extracting it

8 (7m 44s):
Some part of the world where he could reign Supreme and where he could make a lot of money

4 (7m 50s):
Famously Adam harsh child, who is the author of king Leopold's ghost estimates that up to 10 million Congolese died as a result of that colonial extraction, 10 million, 10 million people, which is, I mean, Holocaust figure of people killed.

8 (8m 6s):
Basically his soldiers would go into village after village would hold the women hostage in order to force the men of each village to go deep into the rainforest for days and eventually weeks out of each month and gather a monthly quota of wild rubber. And you can actually see photographs of these women hostages in chance.

4 (8m 27s):
At the beginning of the 20th century, it became a direct colony under Belgium and conditions did improve. Perhaps, you know, they shifted away from extracting ivory and rubber because of other sources of rubber in the world. And it wasn't quite as valuable. So they started looking at other deposits around Congo and Congo is very rich in diamonds. It's very rich in copper. It's very rich and cobalt. It's very rich in gold. It's very rich. And this mineral called coltan, which is in electric capacitors to the extent that when the PlayStation two came out, which was a very Colton intensive device. This was in the late nineties during a period where Congo was brilliant in heavy civil war

9 (9m 9s):
Troops, loyal to president Lauren Kabila backed by their Zimbabwe in and Angolan allies, grimly defend the airport Northeast of Kinshasa, fighting off a determined, but apparently unsuccessful offensive by rebel.

4 (9m 22s):
It kind of fueled the civil war and what became known as quote-unquote the PlayStation war, which is pretty depressing.

6 (9m 30s):
So bringing us back to this current moment, you've got this country that suffered decades of bloody colonialism and dictatorship and war. Now it's sort of a democracy though, a corrupt and problematic one. That's experiencing this cobalt. Boom, what does it mean for Congo?

4 (9m 51s):
Th th the cobalt boom for Congo is not necessarily a sort of unrestrained good for the country. When, you know, when suddenly a rush for raw materials occurs and that sort of context, you see a lot of the wealth diverted away from the population on the ground. What you see is a huge level of migration to the areas in which copper and cobalt is found. Both of these minerals are used in this new sort of technological world. And people sort of have rushed to mine it, and that's created a great deal of pressure on the local infrastructure.

6 (10m 29s):
And you told us the story of CastleOak, but what is this industry like more broadly, surely individual people are not providing the entire world's.

4 (10m 39s):
Yeah, certainly not. The majority of cobalt is mined by large companies, mainly Chinese at this point. So it's anything from 10 to 30% is mined by artismal miners. And the rest is mined by industrial liners. That called

6 (10m 54s):
And artisanal mining is what exactly.

4 (10m 56s):
So artismal mining is basically people going down holes that have been dug in the ground, and they will chip away at a rock face. Literally people going down with, with metal bars to chip away at the rock, face down in the hole and bring up minerals that they sell at a sort of market place. And they sell to traders often foreign traders.

10 (11m 21s):
After they fill their bags with the cobalt, they sell the merchandise on the black market, which is controlled by Chinese companies.

4 (11m 29s):
It's kind of a narcotic was the word that the governor used

11 (11m 33s):
When we offered to sell a truckload of cobalt. Nobody asked us who mined the mineral only what the quality was. This man told us that the Chinese traders here bought all the cobalt and sold it mainly to one Chinese company, Congo dong Fang, mining known locally as CDM

4 (11m 51s):
Artisanal miners are to some extent regulated. There's also a body called , which provides them training, but in practice, most of the autism minds that I saw really followed very few safety regulations, to the extent that many of the miners didn't have shoes. They certainly weren't wearing safety helmets.

12 (12m 12s):
They have no protective equipment and few tools, just a couple of shovels. And they're doing this knowing their previous three tunnels.

4 (12m 21s):
I have collapsed. It seemed as if they were going down these pets, hundreds of feet deep with only the most rudimentary of tools by that. I mean, half a crowbar and a little plastic torch strapped to their head.

6 (12m 35s):
And there's been some controversy in recent years that some of these artisanal miners can be kids, right?

4 (12m 43s):
Because of the lack of governance, it's very difficult to make a full study of children, mining and artismal mines. But some of these artists in the minors are definitely kids. I spoke to many children who had left the mining profession and the range of ages for children working in these mines is quite staggering. I spoke to children who, who, who said that they started working in the mines as young as three, you know, picking through rejected minerals to see if there was anything that had been rejected. That was of value three years old. Yeah. So that taught to learn the differences between minerals at a very young age. Often it happens a little bit later.

4 (13m 24s):
That's a very extreme example. And as the boys, cause it's mainly boys who are doing this work become older and stronger. They're actually sent down the mines themselves, which are incredibly dangerous, incredibly Alice and the, and the material that they're mining is actually kind of toxic in itself. Girls will also do this kind of work, but many outside of the mines themselves outside of the pets. And they will, you know, be washing or their mothers will be washing war. It's a site that you see on the side of the street, you're driving down the road and you see children going down to a little Creek and sort of bringing down bags of minerals and washing them and then giving them to men or motorbikes will speed off to go and sell it at the market.

4 (14m 8s):
So

6 (14m 8s):
You had these miners selling or to traders or a Chinese company. They don't have safety equipment and they sometimes don't even have shoes. You have kids working in this industry. And on top of all of that, the mining itself is pretty dangerous. Yeah.

4 (14m 23s):
To mine and cobalt is particularly dangerous because the soil is fairly unstable and there are all kinds of stories of Cavan's in any one cave in, you know, 70 a hundred miners can perish, especially if they're working in a kind of illegal fashion. So there were a lot of miners who will sneak onto industrial concessions at night, bribing police or, or soldiers who are supposed to be guarding the concessions. And they'll, you know, be chipping away in the, of the night and suddenly there'll be a landslide.

6 (14m 55s):
I don't want to dance around this. Is there a chance that someone driving a Tesla or, you know, who just bought an iPhone 13 pro plus or whatever it's called, could be using a device that has cobalt that was mined by a shoeless child with half a crowbar and a plastic flashlight attached to his head

4 (15m 21s):
In Congo? Absolutely. Absolutely. But remember that the laptops that we're using to converse now and probably the Samsung that I'm holding to my head, I mean, yes, there's a chance that all of those devices might have Congolese cobalt mind in those situations, in the battery. And it's funny when you go down there and I replace my phone, the spring and I, before having reported this piece, you know, I would think of it as an annoyance. It would be a, an expense and so on, but I didn't think about it as a, as a waste, but there's something kind of incredibly effecting about seeing the conditions in which some of these batteries are made. What I will say is that apple and Tesla have both made efforts to clean up their supply chain and other companies as well, need to look at that supply chain in order to make sure that this is a type of activity that is not supported at all by the world's demand for cobalt and demand for lithium-ion batteries.

4 (16m 27s):
I approached a child named Ziki who had just gotten out of that has an online name. And he was sort of talking to me about his terrible experience, how he had started mining age three, how he had gone through all these awful experiences. And I said to him, listen, my cell phone, you know, as a new model of the cell phones, that goes for more than a thousand dollars. And he just kind of looked at it with this kind of great sadness. And he says, wow, that just makes me feel terrible.

6 (17m 18s):
What to do about this cobalt predicament. The world is in, after an intermission here, until they explained

Shopify (17m 49s):
It comes from Shopify. If you run or own a business, that's in the business of selling stuff, chances are, you would like to sell more of it. And Shopify would like to help with their all in one commerce platform that makes running and growing every sort of business easier. They give small businesses the same tools that huge companies have relied on for decades, namely their single easy to use platform, which allows business owners to boost sales sync up online and in-person sales and stay on top of sales analytics that matter most right now you can join more than 2 million businesses that rely on Shopify to connect with customers. By going to shopify.com/explained for a 14 day trial and full access to Shopify as entire suite of features grow your business with Shopify today, go to shopify.com/explained right now that is shopify.com/explained.

Boost Mobile (18m 56s):
You listen to podcasts for the power of knowledge. You switched to boost mobile for the power of saving money. Because with boost, you can get the power of a free 5g phone. So you can listen to all the latest episodes, the power of three unlimited data lines for 30 bucks a month per line. So your family can harness all that brain power to, and the power of one of America's largest 5g networks. So you can do it all at the speed of 5g with all that money you'll save and all that knowledge you'll gain, just how powerful will you become switch to boost mobile and find out, get a free Samsung galaxy 8 32 5g. When you switched to one of America's largest 5g networks, more power to save boost mobile disclaimer, free phone limited to new customers in one per line. Additional restrictions apply offer slash coverage, not avail everywhere or for all phones slash networks. So you boost mobile.com for details.

6 (19m 47s):
Nicolas, I think we kind of understand the artisanal mining side of the picture now, but tell me more about the big companies here. What's the industry look like it's its biggest form. So the mining industry and its biggest form is a multinational industry in which large companies extract minerals from the ground and buy and sell them on the international market. And as you can imagine, these companies are incredibly wealthy. They're incredibly well provisioned, and they have mine sites that reflect that

13 (20m 21s):
We are receiving the, or coming underground, open pit. And after that, we milled them, we grant them and do mixed with all of the chemicals to float and to get the good concept.

4 (20m 35s):
That's a lot of those minds are now controlled by Chinese companies, whether it says investors or as direct control through Chinese companies. And

6 (20m 46s):
That hasn't always the case.

4 (20m 48s):
That hasn't always been the case. So after the Belgians left Congo, they continued to be very much involved in the mining industry. And Europeans were basically designated to run the mines for president Mobutu, But after a series of rebel attacks and mismanagement, the mines began to be run more by people from the country and the mines also just before the civil war and then during the civil war kind of started falling into disrepair. So the mines were sort of left fallow for a long time during the civil war, which lasted from 1997 until the mid two thousands.

4 (21m 37s):
At that point, Western and other foreign mining companies started casting around for access to congos, British mineral deposits. And they began extracting copper and cobalt in the wake of the civil war. And that was able to fuel the government and fuel the rooting party as it sought to monopolize its hold on power. So

6 (22m 4s):
At what point does the west move out and trying to move in?

4 (22m 8s):
The Chinese started moving in, in the late warts

14 (22m 12s):
Back in 2008, the democratic Republic of Congo struck a big deal with Beijing. China state-owned firms would build hospitals and roads in return for revenues from copper and cobalt mines.

4 (22m 25s):
And they would essentially buy the mines directly off these companies. And they would work in partnership with the state and mining company, which is known as Jack amine in order to acquire these mines

15 (22m 39s):
<em></em> China has secured a considerable stake. It will receive 68% of mining revenue. The Congolese government share is 32%.

4 (22m 49s):
I think that there's a certain amount of risk involved with doing business in DRC and a lot of Western companies, especially as oversight increased and as more journalism and investigative work began to be done around these issues of corruption. So on I said, listen, we're going to wash our hands of this and, and sort of getaway.

6 (23m 16s):
And what do Chinese mining operations in Congo look like?

4 (23m 19s):
And he's finding operations in Congo. I mean the big industrial mines would look like probably mines anywhere else in the world. There has been some sort of questioning of safety standards, but broadly, I mean the big industrial mining outfits, and I don't want to speak about all of them, but I did visit one in the south of Congo and it appeared very well run and a sort of very professional seeming place. However, there are the Chinese mining outfits, which do not resemble that tool in any way, shape or form there's those resemble, you know, something from a different period. You know, you see shoeless people and you see people being beaten savagely and by sort of overseers and you see kind of all kinds of terrible things.

4 (24m 6s):
I think that is a sense that there's like a sort of new form of colonialism going on by the Chinese. And There are definitely examples and videos that I've been shown of Chinese overseas, mistreating Congolese workers. But at the same time, you have to admit that these large industrial enterprises are run as large industrial enterprises in the, in the 21st century.

6 (24m 38s):
And how much are these large industrial enterprises serving the country? How much are they elevating the nation and the Congolese people? It's

4 (24m 48s):
Very difficult to tell what benefits the Congolese people, because money is suddenly paid back into the Concordia's economy, but because of issues around corruption, a lot of that money, it doesn't actually reach the people. And it probably ends up in bank accounts and different parts of the world that are controlled by local politicians,

6 (25m 10s):
Despite decades of foreign mining operations. That certainly fed hundreds of millions. If not billions of dollars into the Congolese economy, I'm guessing you don't see a lot of electric cars rolling around

4 (25m 25s):
Congo. You certainly don't see electric cars running around in Congo.

6 (25m 29s):
Is there a world in which, you know, Congo could integrate more of this cobalt economy? And I don't know, you know, start building electric cars start building I-phones. There is all of that manufacturing happening in the west or in China itself.

4 (25m 47s):
All of that manufacturing is happening in the west or in China or abroad basically ironically, one of Congo's issues is that it doesn't have a steady stream of electricity. And it's very difficult for businesses, especially these kinds of high-tech businesses to set up if they can't be assured of power 24 7, even though this is the country that produces the raw materials, which go into batteries. So there are systemic issues that need to be dealt with before Congo can become a high-tech producer, but in the end of the day, I mean, you have to think that it's better to be doing this on the country's soil than shipping all this mineral halfway around the world and then putting it into the back of a phone and then shipping it halfway around the world again and tweaking it a little bit and then selling it, you know, hundreds of miles away.

4 (26m 40s):
I mean, I think that is a very wasteful way of, at things beyond any issues of like corruption and local gain. And then it's also a way in which people that are kind of left out of this boom.

6 (26m 56s):
So, so what's the caring consumer supposed to do the person who buys an electric car because they think they're doing the environment to favor or, you know, gets the newest iPhone because it's revolutionizing their lives and making everything easier. And at the same time, maybe just now, just right now, listening to this interview, discovering that the products that help their devices work are coming from this in some cases, incredibly painful, dangerous abusive system, or in other cases, this incredibly dangerous corrupt system. I mean, should we be hoping for cobalt alternatives or should we be hoping that, you know, the Congolese government gets its act together?

4 (27m 40s):
Yes, there are battery scientists by working on cobalt alternatives that has true. The current options around batteries for electric cars don't have the range or the acceleration capabilities of a cobalt battery. And the current optionality for cell phones would require the batteries to be much larger and would require the phones to be larger as a result. So, I mean, either, I suppose we could accept larger phones and slower cars or, you know, we can try and hold these companies to account to show that these issues actually mean things to a consumer.

4 (28m 23s):
And at the same time, I think also reducing one sort of personal waste and train, you know, maybe if one doesn't need that new computer or one doesn't need that new iPhone not replacing it and trying to kind of slow one's impact on that cycle.

6 (28m 38s):
It kind of just feels like one of those stories where there's no good solution,

4 (28m 42s):
There are good solutions. I mean, I think there's certainly a solution by which the people of Congo are remunerated in an unacceptable way as a solution in which transparency has brought to Congo and accountability. It doesn't need to be this brutal. It doesn't need to be an industry that just takes away and doesn't give, but at the moment, the way in which it is set up and the way in which it is developing, because all this stuff is accelerating as well is incredibly brutal and, you know, creates these situations and these cycles of poverty and exclusion and ultimately sort of human rights abuses

6 (29m 38s):
Reporter Nicolas Niarchos wrote about the cobalt industry, the Congo for the new Yorker, his story is titled the dark side of Congo's cobalt rush, and you can find it@newyorker.com. Our show today was produced by will read edited by Matthew Collette engineered by FIM, Shapiro, and fact by Laura Bullard. I'm Sean Rama's from, and this is today explained