1 (14s):
It's the explains. I'm Sean Rama's firm and I'm standing outside RFK Memorial

2 (19s):
Stadium in Northeast Washington DC. It

1 (22s):
looks kind of like like a dying

2 (26s):
Rusty convertible

1 (28s):
spaceship, Washington's And a football team hasn't played here since about 1996 but on Juneteenth just about where I'm standing. There is this big production because a monument was removed. It was a tribute to a guy named George Preston Marshall Marshall is best known

2 (47s):
for pioneering the halftime show the fight song the forward pass

1 (51s):
and for being a raging bigot. He bought the Boston Braves football team in 1932 a year later. He changed the team Names of the Redskins and in 1937. He moved his team to Washington DC. It was the NFL's last team to integrate in 1962 15 years after other teams have begun drafting black players and he acquiesced only after the federal government threatened to kick him out of its federal

2 (1m 21s):
district just before Marshall statue was removed a few weeks ago protesters covered it in

1 (1m 28s):
red paint on the side. Sides of it they scrawled a message change the name bit of a Hail Mary but it appears to have worked some major news out of the NFL Washington's NFL team retiring its controversial nickname. Here's the statement for the team Dan Snyder and Coach Rivera are working closely to develop a new name and a design approach that will enhance the standing of our proud tradition Rich franchise and Inspire our sponsors fans and Community for the next 100 years.

3 (1m 58s):
I knew it might be coming but it's such a shock when it actually happens. Nothing was more immovable in the mascot discussion and the Washington

2 (2m 8s):
franchise Paul Chaat Smith is a curator at the smithsonian's national museum of the American Indian here in the district and he's going to help us understand the complexities of the fight to change the name of Washington's professional football team,

3 (2m 23s):
you know over the past few decades. There's been a lot of change with universities. Public schools that have changed names so that the mascot movement has been amazingly effective, but the professional sports leagues have always been the hardest the most immovable and of those the ones that had the most investment in keeping the name as it is was Washington football team.

1 (2m 52s):
Let's consult her. Dan Snyder has held firm under some protests that he will not change the nickname of Steam Snyder who bought the franchise in 1999 claiming it honors Native American Heritage

2 (3m 5s):
even telling USA Today in 2013. Quote will never change the name. It's that simple never you can use caps. And

3 (3m 12s):
that's when there was a lot of attention paid to it. There were more and more

2 (3m 15s):
people who were

3 (3m 17s):
recognizing it, you know, something defamatory

1 (3m 21s):
many say this team has been behind the time. They were the last NFL team to integrate they have held onto this controversial name. Widely seen as racist for 87

3 (3m 31s):
years for a while many sports writers around the country wouldn't use the name. This was like 2014 and then it sort of went away as being a hot-button issue, but then you know the in-game with with this issue was other billionaires and other interests that really pushed it

1 (3m 52s):
FedEx sent a private letter to the Washington Redskins saying it will remove all its stages. Stadium branding and signage unless the football team changes its name FedEx on to 27-year 205 million dollar naming rights deal with the Redskins back in 1999 to assume the banner of their

2 (4m 12s):
Stadium adweek magazine reporting that investment firms and shareholders worth six hundred twenty billion dollars have requested that FedEx as well as Nike and Pepsi all terminate their ties with the franchise unless owner Daniel Snyder makes The change but none of

3 (4m 29s):
that would have happened without this activist and that went on for years and years beforehand

1 (4m 36s):
but make our voice is loud and heard and make sure people know exactly who we are and the Redskins name is not the name of the mascot. It is a racist derogatory term that I personally take offense to including my children.

2 (4m 53s):
Tell me a bit about the history of this name. Do you know why it was chosen to begin with?

3 (4m 60s):
Yeah, you know, we did a lot of research at the Museum into this and these are names chosen mostly by you know, really rich white guys and in the 1930s or 40s, or was it a great deal of thought or what might happen or what a native people think that changed starting and you know as far back as a 50s and 60s in which people started His opposition to this but it's really only been in the last 20 30 years that it's begun to register as a significant issue.

2 (5m 33s):
What did the team say back? The

1 (5m 36s):
name of our team is the name of our team and it represents honored represents Pride represents

3 (5m 42s):
respect and in no way is this derogatory or racist with Washington. The hardest thing is that it actually is a dictionary defines slur.

2 (5m 53s):
Did it ever cost the team financially in the past 20 or 30 years of controversy?

3 (5m 59s):
I think mainly what cost them was just not having won a playoff game since 2005. That's the that's ultimately the major thing people, you know, very few fans choose a team based on the name, you know fans, you know, you don't say boy, I would be for the Jaguars but I just really don't like Jaguars, you know, it's just not how it works. And so this is something DC has a fans never chosen. Him, but then once you love something if people from the outside attack it, you know, you're defensive

2 (6m 29s):
an argument that Dan Snyder has made from time to time is there are Native American fans of the Washington Redskins who approve of the name. Do you think that argument was overstated or over employed to defend the name?

3 (6m 46s):
I think there always have been and there are today native people some of whom who aren't offended but also Oh some who really support the name. I met some of them my question would be how often on any big policy issue. Do we ask? Well, how did the whites feel about it and do all the whites feel the same way about this issue and you know, the reality is like any other community there not many things all of us agree on but this is not like some tiny Elite of coastal native people from universities. This is a widespread View. This is something that's hurtful. That's a relic that needs to change.

2 (7m 28s):
What did it finally take to change this team's name?

3 (7m 33s):
Well, I've been thinking about that actually is kind of depressing because we're going to catalog first of all is his decades and Decades of activists who were yelled at and stadiums and attacked and didn't give up so they deserve most of the credit but in terms of why it happens now and what it took it's very dismissive. It took a national Uprising led by African Americans in all 50 states. I think the pandemic played a role in which some things got more attention because people are at home and then and then it took something like 600 billion dollars of corporate and investment money to say well times up we don't want to support this anymore and then things changed on a dime

2 (8m 16s):
so it took George Floyd's death and protests like this country's never seen for FedEx to feel Justified. Saying you know the names got to go. It feels like this actually didn't have anything to do with respect for Native Americans or their culture

3 (8m 31s):
as far as the endgame. Yeah, Indians have less political power in the United States and economic power so that these huge advertisers that even before this past year certainly would say they're Progressive on on racial questions can ignore it. They did it once it became untenable primarily. Because of you know, what happened in this country since Memorial Day and it really truly had nothing to do with actually two people. I want to talk to you

2 (9m 2s):
more about how Native American cultures appropriated in the United States after we take a quick break. But before we do that as a Washington Sports Fan you got any preferences for a new name for the football team.

3 (9m 15s):
My two favorites are the ocelots or The Replacements

2 (9m 20s):
their Replacements. There's a there's a Keanu Reeves. Football movie with the same name right Keanu could be the mascot.

3 (9m 26s):
Everybody likes him.

2 (9m 39s):
Support for the show today comes from another show. It's the Jordan Harbinger show. And yes, I know I come here every day and tell you to listen to even more podcasts and I'm sure you're like alright already with the other podcast, but today's different because Jordan really wants you to listen to his show the Jordan Harbinger show. Apple named it one of the best shows of 2018 and it's going to make you a better informed more critical thinker. So you can get a sense of how the world really works and come to your own conclusions about what's happening in the world. Each episode features a conversation with a different fascinating guests. And when Jordan says there's something for everyone here.

2 (10m 22s):
He really means that in one episode. He talks to a hostage negotiator from the FBI who offers techniques on how to get people to like and trust you. Come on now, it's the Jordan Harbinger show. It's a podcast and you can find it wherever you listen to podcasts.

1 (10m 45s):
This is Advertiser content. Hey, this is Bo's. I'm a podcaster a streamer gamer and I'm basically all over the Internet. So one of the things that I'm super interested in is how new technology affects our lives today with the help of Samsung Galaxy 5G. I'm looking at how technology connects us. Let's get into it with dr. Jennifer gold back. She's a professor at the University of Maryland studying how our online interactions affect their daily lives doctor. What do you see as the biggest promise of 5G but I think it's going to really open a new way of thinking about how do we share these real-world offline experiences that we're having now is 5G.

1 (11m 26s):
We're going to take this next

2 (11m 27s):
Leap Forward. We're going to be able to do stuff that we couldn't think of with slower connections

1 (11m 32s):
psychologically. How do you think that this affects us? Yeah. It's such a good question if things kind of get in the way of us doing what we're trying to do, it can be so frustrating because it builds up over the course of the day. Day, and so if we have seamless video If we don't have those little delays it's going to make us feel better. It's going to reduce that frustration that's going to make us nicer to everybody else. It's going to make us happier. Wow, it's seriously been so interesting talking to you today, and I have a million questions, but that's all the time that we have for Samsung and my guest. Dr. Jennifer gold back. Thank you so much for joining us be one of the first to start enhancing Your World online and off with Galaxy 5G now available on Galaxy S.

1 (12m 15s):
25g and a 71 5G feels good to be first with Samsung.

2 (12m 27s):
Paul this isn't just Washington's football team or the Cleveland then Atlanta baseball teams you curated this great exhibit at the Museum of the American Indian called Americans that shows people all the different and complicated ways this country glorifies and co-ops images of Native Americans and I'll just let people know that they can find a version of it online at American Indian dot s i dot edu / Americans

3 (12m 54s):
It's a very weird subversive phenomenon that most folks don't really think about but Indian imagery has been in the United States popular culture since before the country started for a really really long time. So my view is that actually is something profound. It's something where Americans actually went to remember it acknowledged the fact that the whole country is exists because of dispossession of native people and to try to come to terms with it. There's something really spooky and interesting about it.

2 (13m 31s):
Give us some examples for people who have no idea who may be see it, but don't even realize they're seeing it

3 (13m 38s):
when you come into our exhibit when it opens with cellphone pandemic is finally over, you know, you see for example a Tomahawk missile.

1 (13m 48s):
The tomahawk is considered the world's most advanced cruise missile. You see an Indian motorcycle. You see a lot of sports memorabilia and we chose in almost all cases these children's

3 (14m 2s):
clothing, you know, when's these things like that or talk

1 (14m 5s):
about how usually become a fan when your kid? You've got to admit. It's a catchy little tune as the season went along the Atlanta Braves tomahawk chop spread like wildfire through the stands. You see Elvis headdress and

3 (14m 39s):
you see tons of advertising and magazine covers

1 (14m 42s):
share. See you at the soda The Adams Family from the 60s almost every

3 (14m 52s):
long-running TV show situation comedy sooner or later has an Indian episode why it just makes sense. You know, it's American

1 (15m 2s):
the chief doing John make beat up and he Big Chief. You now been flying eagle.

3 (15m 12s):
So for most visitors they come in there and they see things that trigger memories in their own life watching that TV show or going to a school that had an Indian name and when you put it all together, it becomes very powerful to see it as opposed to something to Simply trivial and it's there. And so what if we were the Braves and high school, it doesn't really mean anything maybe motorcycles are cool. But then when you look at all together you realize it's kind of an obsession for Americans to generate this imagery over time and there's a lot of negative about it. But some of it is actually positive because for me it shows an openness to trying to think about what the history of the country is and how Central Native Americans are in that history.

2 (15m 58s):
Does it feel like sort of a one-sided conversation ultimately that financial institutions corporate entities Kanye West on some of his merchandise. I saw on that exhibit, you know, they want to sort of recognize this Rich Noble Native American culture, but maybe not spend the time and think about the experience of Native Americans in this country right now. What's the conversation that people should be having a part from? Yeah. Let's change the name of the Washington football team.

3 (16m 29s):
Yeah. I think that's exactly the right question and for us it was about opening up a space where people can see this whole thing is much. Bigger and if the phenomenon of these images, you know, essentially what our Kanye West there's a Lynyrd Skynyrd poster that has almost the same Motif. It's an Indian Skull feathers. And so what a Kanye West and Lynyrd Skynyrd have in common, I guess you could say their politics right now, but it won't say that but things that are radically diverse. I'm nothing in common about the country motor oil, you

1 (17m 2s):
know butter right? Yes.

3 (17m 9s):
They're just they're so the conversation needs to be. Okay. Is it right or wrong to have the butter made non Land O Lakes. Okay. That's okay. I'm not that's a fine conversation. They got rid of it, but it's not like that solves anything. The real issue is why is all this great honoring only happening to us in these particular ways.

2 (17m 31s):
Yeah, are there other changes you would love to see happen. In in this country as they relate to Native American appropriation and culture.

3 (17m 41s):
Well, I guess I've been encouraged not something I feel that often but the kind of news coverage something like the Supreme Court decision in Oklahoma or when the president went to Tulsa and and in the Black Hills in South Dakota. There's just been a really epic shift in the last 10 years about attention to now. Of America in a way that wasn't before so that's really ultimately what we want is for native people to be seen as part of Contemporary American life. We're certainly drawing a line in the sand as far as the museum these sports team should be renamed knowing the in anything, you know, and we'll take positions on those things generally, but what we really want is an American public that feels like this history is part of them because its history so Central to the United States and that's a very long-term project.

3 (18m 39s):
And in terms of the Reckoning that people are talking about it's been really inspiring to see so many Native people as far as part of black lives matter. It's been really inspiring to see the leadership the tribal government struck and handling the pandemic and making really wise decisions about controlling, you know, the outbreaks on their community and that that's getting attention. So it is a lot of good things are actually happening. Inning, even in this dark time.

2 (19m 8s):
I'm glad you feel inspired. And if the Washington football team decides to choose The Replacements, maybe maybe you can accompany me to my first ever NFL game considered a day. We'll get to see Keanu in person at the football game. That'll be so cool.