2 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from another show. It's called T mystery from the people over at atlassian in the show filmmaker and documentarian Gabriella cowperthwaite takes a look at some of the most groundbreaking moments in history and the team works that made those moments possible. It's a real positive show if you're looking for some positivity in your life download T mystery for free at atlassian.com. That's a atlast SSI a n.com / T mystery or wherever you listen to podcasts the other morning.

2 (51s):
I did something sort of radical but it was weird because it's something I used to do like five times a week. I woke up at 7 a.m. Got on a bike and whizzed across Washington

1 (1m 4s):
DC, but I wasn't going into the office. That's still forbidden. I was going to a park. It's still forbidden to fully use a lot of parks in Washington DC and Tennis Courts basketball courts playgrounds are out. But Montrose Park in Georgetown was wide open. So I went there to meet a person remember how we used to meet people. Hey yousa way and I am director of the garden and Landscape studies program at Dumbarton Oaks research librarian collection. I met taizo to talk about reopening Parks because parks are kind of her life. It feels like there's this movement right now. Soon people to reopen parks and that's what we're interested in is is why is there this movement and why were these Parks shut down to begin with and was that a mistake?

1 (1m 52s):
So I'll start by saying I think it was a mistake although I sympathize and empathize with the reasons and the reasons to me have really to do with conflating two different issues and and you'll see quickly why they're easy to complete. The one is human behavior. How are people behaving in parks? And yes, it is true. Not everybody is always adhering to To the six feet not everybody was always adhering to the less than 10 people in less than six people whatever your local and then there is what a public parks do and how do they function and unfortunately we chose when people weren't always behaving well to close the whole park and I use that as equivalent to if we looked at streets and we set up there was a driver who didn't obey the rules we're going to close all the streets.

1 (2m 38s):
We wouldn't we would pull that driver aside and if it was bad in We give a ticket or we socially say that's not okay. So to close Parts because some people aren't behaving in the way that we want seems counterproductive and then I would say it's also a mistake because in fact closing the parks does not help people who don't follow the rules follow the rules. All you're doing is pushing it underground or pushing it away or shaming you're not actually helping the public to understand why these rules and the CDC guidelines are so incredibly important. Oughtn't so I'd argue open the parks. If you see too many crowds then think about how you can expand the space not how do you close it down?

1 (3m 22s):
I guess it might seem obvious to some but why are parks of necessary? Why is it dangerous to push people out of parks parks are really a response to Public Health and what it means to have a healthy City and you could go back to Hippocrates, you know way way ancient history and talk about the realization that the Environment impacts your health having fresh air having son ventilation all of that really matters. We're very fortunate today in the 21st century is in the 19th century. We began as cities got very dense and we had paid less and less attention to the health of cities with industrialism. We realized by the middle of the nineteenth Century cities were not healthy places.

1 (4m 6s):
They were places of pollution and sewage issues that you know human sewage mix And with your drinking water not a good combo which we know today and we realize that that led to things like the cholera outbreaks and led to typhoid and led to all sorts of pandemics and epidemics earlier. So we started to create Parks as a way both to make cities healthy on a day-to-day basis, which meant that people could come out and get fresh air and get that ventilation get that son that they needed but we also began to realize that physical exercise of getting out and walking biking hula-hooping. Ever it is that people did that they got outside and did that and it was important and increasingly densities.

1 (4m 49s):
We also began to realize that socially and and Frederick Law Olmsted one of our earliest Landscape Architects as a profession talks about this. It's important to democracy because public parks are the places where lots of people walk and talk and intersect and I don't know where that woman comes from and what her background is, but I'm going to intersect with her if I cross on a path if we're both walking our dogs so public Parks are important for physical health mental health the important for democracy. They really make our cities the livable places in the safe and healthy places. So to me to take the healthy heart out of a sick body seems counterproductive and yet cities and states across the country did that right?

1 (5m 32s):
And they did do it. And again, I want to be a little sympathetic they did it for two reasons one is they were faced with how do you police it? So if people aren't behaving properly What are you doing? We're going to give tickets to p.m. Sorry, you were four and a half feet apart. You know, that's a $10 front that seems a little absurd and was going to have all sorts of issues with it. Right? It seems to me. She's in New York where certain people are being policed more than others black people that exactly there's also the issue and this certainly was issue problem with the National Park Service and other places the staff. How do you protect our staff? How do you make sure that the Park Service the people who have to work in Parts who are working on?

1 (6m 12s):
Parks Building constructing taking care of it are safe was part of the issue that you know that states and cities had never dealt with something like this before. Well, they've dealt with it. I'm 1918 flu is probably our most recent big memory many cities were putting in large Park systems at that point. They were actually realizing not only did you need individual parks and neighborhoods, but you need a connected Parks boulevards you started to see networks of parks go in more and more. So that cities were realizing what you needed. And essentially what I would call the urban landscape web that sustains the city as a whole and we so often think of cities as the skyscrapers the skyline, but actually it's the ground on which we walk right and how we get between places.

1 (6m 57s):
So they were looking at things like Street trees. They were looking at small Parks big parks Park networks boulevards and the idea was social behavior you had to wear masks we've seen right A lot of people reprinted those those images of you have to wear masks you're supposed. You know far apart from each other you clean your hands. They were putting in facilities for people to do that. They were actually putting in things like public bathrooms so that people could wash their hands which is another piece that I would love to see more Parks do if you look around this park no place to wash your hands, you know, if you sat at a table and then wanted to go wash your hands right now mostly looks like a place where dogs go to the bathroom. Yes, exactly.

1 (7m 37s):
We have to take a little break, but why don't we talk about how cities should reopen their Parks after? It sounds

2 (7m 43s):
excellent. You know the weather's turning here in DC and when I go outside, I see a lot of folks running around and not even like being chased they are running for their physical and mental health. And if you've been doing the same, there's a new sustainable pair of running shoes for your daily constitutional. It's the tree - er from all birds and Albarn says it's the first performance running shoe made from premium natural materials in the whole wide world the tree - er is made with eco-friendly materials like certified. Just fiber and Merino wool engineered to perform. The sugarcane derived souls are made for cushioning energy return and stability and those souls are surrounded by certified natural rubber for more traction and durability giving you your best mile after mile.

2 (8m 35s):
Even if you're not race training or trying to beat your, you know personal record or whatever these shoes look great and they're comfortable to folks with the new all birds tree - you will feel confident knowing that you can run hard and tread lightly on the planet find your pair at all birds.com today. You ever wish you had your own personal? Dr. Frasier Crane just a dude or lady who came by and said, you know what I'm listening better help might have that person for you. They have counselors who are standing by to help talk about stress isolation anxiety depression. Whatever it is you connect with your counselor in a safe and private online environment to get started.

2 (9m 17s):
You just fill out a questionnaire to help assess your needs and get matched with the counselor in less than 24 hours. That you can easily schedule secure video or phone sessions or exchange unlimited messages and it's pretty affordable right now today explain listeners get 10% off your first month with better help with the discount code explained. So why not get started today go to better help.com explain. That's better HVLP.com explained you can talk to a therapist online and get professional help when you want it wherever you are.

1 (9m 58s):
We're back here in Montrose Park which apparently never closed out. Nope, as parks are reopening. What do you think? The biggest barriers are for cities and states? I think the biggest barriers are for Parks as they reopened. But even in cities where they haven't closed parts to really think about how we're going to help the public understand what appropriate behavior is and and I'll be in to be honest. I think one of the big challenges right now is the sea. DC is responding to research and so those things are changing we've seen a trade initially we didn't have to wear masks now the recommending masks. So the Big Challenge initially is going to be how to help the public keep up-to-date and behave properly then I think for me it's going to be how to help people learn those guidelines without shaming.

1 (10m 48s):
I feel very strongly that this is a moment of incredible anxiety and stress. And the last thing we need is a lot of fingers wagging. I think the vast majority authority of us are doing our best. There are few that aren't and we need to deal with that. But I think even those who might not be are often not intentionally doing something to put themselves or other people at risk. So we need to think of generous and It sounds so cliche but sort of loving nice ways to help people learn and to realize that this is really important for all of us. And then I think the other piece is going to be how to extend. So I noticed that New York, for example Minneapolis has done this Seattle star introduced.

1 (11m 32s):
They're starting to close down the streets around parks to extend the space of the park. But also to make sure that people within walking distance can really walk and so that you encouraging people to use Parts in Our own District knowing that not everybody has access to beautiful spots like this. So you need to be able to let people move around. I think the other one which is much more long-term is this is going to cause us to rethink I think design of part. So we're going to have to think about things like how do we make paths that can naturally get a little wider when we need more space. You know, how do we think about things like picnic tables? It was standing next to with the attached benches.

1 (12m 14s):
Maybe tables with separate benches are better so that we can move things around and they're going to be some ways. We're going to rethink how to make Parks a little more flexible. I want to dig into a few of those a little bit more starting with just the re-openings. I mean when you look at a state like California that had a heat wave a nice weekend and all of a sudden it's beaches were flooded with people who weren't practicing safe social distancing who are acting like it was just another day at the beach and then of course the governor had to shut down some beaches and Of course you had these massive protests where again? No one was practicing say social distancing. I mean, what did you see in that situation that could have been done better. So first of all, I want to emphasize that some of the photos we've seen of maths groups of people and they done some highlights recently of like tents on the perspective you're taking the photographs from and we're kind of lends.

1 (13m 7s):
It can make people look much closer together than they actually are again. I think there's some interesting things like this and beaches that have opened up but I said basically no sitting and resting New Jersey. I think the entire Jersey Shore and I think it you know, initially it was like really like if you sitting by yourself you really you know, that picture of the cops giving the woman who was sunbathing a ticket but I also understand what that allows is people moving keeping the distance. Lots of people get access. You don't fill it up with the first 25 people who can get their social distance and everybody else is left out because people have to move their allowance surfing right because that's something you can go in and you can move apart. Um, so I think that's part of it is thinking about ways like that to limit helping people figure it out.

1 (13m 50s):
I also think it's thinking about other public spaces. It's getting rather than closing down its thinking about what are alternatives. Now, let's be honest. There's no real alternative to the beach and the ocean and the waves for those of us who really love that so, you know, we'll have to think about how we do that and work it out and but it shouldn't be an all or nothing. Let's talk a bit about the opportunity here to really We think cities and Parks. Is this an opportunity to really rethink how much space were dedicating to cars and how much space were dedicating to pedestrians and if so our cities actually going to take that opportunity so they answer is yes. And yes, so yes, it is an absolute moment to rethink.

1 (14m 33s):
The pandemic is horrible and I don't want to say anything good about it. But if anything good comes out of it one of them may be that we actually rethink our public realm which has incrementally been turned over to the Cars and trucks and I think we can really rethink that Oakland was adding 74 miles of roads that are now for pedestrians bikes and other slow forms. You see New York doing a hundred miles Barcelona Lima Peru, you see them all over the world all of them in response to a decrease in cars, and we should be clear the decrease in fatalities of pedestrians and bikes are because there aren't as many cars.

1 (15m 14s):
It's right which is why our insurance many of us our car insurance. We got a little $0.20 rebate because yeah, I gradually because their claims have gone way down. So some of it is an absolute moment to rethink and I think it's a very exciting moment to rethink because given climate change given the inequities of our cities given the challenges. We haven't had we've all known. We need to rethink the city and the public realm in many ways and this kind of brought it right up. To the surface and said here's your chance. You think you think even with all of the economic Strife that cities are going to have to deal with and states that they'll manage to prioritize things like public spaces.

1 (15m 59s):
There's two parts to that question. So economically are they going to invest in their parks in the way they should and invest in their public realm and make a beautiful pedestrian-friendly 20 minutes cities all over the place. I think some will I think you get a mayor in Paris for example, who is Doing a remarkable job leading that City to rethink now. They've been on a trajectory towards that same with Minneapolis. So I think you'll get some cities that in fact will but it's going to be economically really tough time. And I don't think any Arena. However good it is is going to get the kind of investment least in the near future. So I don't want us to sit here and paint. Oh, yeah money. I'll come pouring into the national parks, but I do think the other thing we've learned is that the things that make cities And healthy to live in our what ground the economy is cities are not places where you and I want to live and all of the people around here who work and live here feel healthy and safe to live in then you can open all the stories you want and it's not going to help we don't have a community and we don't have a healthy Community.

1 (17m 7s):
I'm always an optimist but you know, maybe early, you know six months ago if you had said to people Occam's going to shut down 74 Miles of road for pedestrians would have been laughed out of the room. There's no wait. And here we are today. So it's being done by cities that have leaders who understand what it takes to create a healthy city and what they need to do and I think that that is becoming more of the norm. So yeah, I think and I think they'll be also ways they do that that I have no idea and I can't wait to see.

2 (17m 40s):
Well, I hope you're right. It's been it's been a pleasure talking about parks with you taizo in a Historic Park.

1 (17m 46s):
Yes, exactly. Nope, no better place. Thanks so much. Thank you.