2 (0s):
This is Saint Dominic. I'm an assistant managing editor at the New York

1 (4s):
Times. Our

2 (5s):
Newsroom has been empty since March, but we've been busier than ever before the pandemic has changed how we work, but it hasn't changed what we do. This is why we became journalists to bring to light real verified information when the stakes couldn't be higher. We can't do this work without our subscribers. If you'd like to subscribe, please go to nytimes.com / subscribe and thanks. Xerox wants to help you make now work because right now there are a lot of things getting in the way of that work pivot to future-ready solutions that will help your business Thrive and take on this new normal at Xerox.com Vox Xerox automates and digitizes your system.

2 (47s):
So being remote doesn't slow down your flow and when you need to offer personalized care to a customer Xerox help to do so with tech solutions that feel human learn more about how to transform your business for these Changing Times at Xerox. flash box Please raise your right hand and repeat after me. I Donald John Trump do solemnly swear. I Donald John Trump do solemnly swear that I will Faithfully execute that. I will Faithfully execute the office of President of the United States the office of President of the United States and will to the best of my ability and will to the best of my ability preserve protect and defend Preserve protect and defend the Constitution of the United States the Constitution of the United States so help me God so help me God congratulations.

2 (1m 45s):
Mr. President. It's snakes planed. I'm Sean Rama's forum for years ago Donald Trump from reality TV won the presidency and our shared reality hasn't been the same since the Relentless pace of headlines controversies and tweets. Has rendered the country divided at present and unable to fully recollect the past I've seen the Tweet about tapes. Lordy. I hope there are tapes. We struggled to remember what this president said or did last month let alone in 2017 this October leading up to the 2020 election. We're going to help you remember in the coming weeks were bringing you the Trump Years A series that looks back on what Donald Trump did during his four years as president of the United States.

2 (2m 35s):
Dates and what it means for the future of the American political experiment? on today's show when at all costs If you got the final presidential debate last night, you heard the president run through some of his Greatest Hits. I was put through a phony Witch Hunt for three years. President. Trump has played this song so many times that Joe Biden just immediately looked up to the heavens in exasperation. Let me just say this Mueller and 18 angry Democrats and FBI agents all over the place spent 48 million dollars.

2 (3m 18s):
He went through everything. I had including my tax returns and they found absolutely no collusion and nothing wrong for that's the president's narrative on the mall investigation. No collusion did nothing wrong impeachment. It was a hoax. No quid pro quo. He had a perfect phone call with the president of Ukraine. It's important to remember that this is a false narrative that the revelations from the mul investigation and the president's impeachment inquiry are manifold and have direct implications on this election. We're in right now Andrew Prokop politics Vox remind us.

1 (3m 54s):
I think the takeaway from both the Russia investigation and the Ukraine impeachment inquiry is pretty much the same. It's that when Donald Trump is trying to win an election. He will Embrace Shady unethical dubiously legal tactics in order to try and make that happen. Well the

2 (4m 18s):
Vestigation truly does feel like a lifetime ago. I believe it begins even before Donald Trump is elected president in 2016 Where Do We Begin if we're going to go back and look at how that unfolded.

1 (4m 31s):
It depends how you start the clock. The FBI opened its counterintelligence investigation into members of the Trump campaigns ties to Russia on July 31st, 2016. They did so for a few reasons one was that the Russian government had been blamed for a hack of the

2 (4m 58s):
DNC the supposedly neutral DNC officials discuss raising the issue of whether Bernie Sanders was an atheist and perhaps plan. Your story that Bernie never ever had his act together that his campaign was a mess.

1 (5m 12s):
The dnc's private emails were then dumped onto the Wikileaks website and posted publicly by Wikileaks. It has a very embarrassing spectacle. We're talking about a slow leak

2 (5m 25s):
every day a new batch in the Clinton campaign knows this could be a problem for them every day until election day.

1 (5m 32s):
There was no indication that the Trump team was involved in that in any way. Kept that an Australian Diplomat had heard from Trump campaign foreign policy advisor George papadopolis.

2 (5m 46s):
We are student might have been I asked him whether he thought Trump would win the Republican nomination in the rate constant at my simple. What about the general election against Hillary Clinton ever be pretty hard going with me and he said that he thought that Trump would win. He said that in any case the Russians might use some material they have Hillary and that will do her a lot of damage. So this

1 (6m 13s):
Australian Diplomat was alarmed about this and he told the US government and so the FBI started to investigate this question of what the people close to Donald Trump knew about this Russian effort to interfere with the 2016 election by hurting

2 (6m 32s):
Democrats. Now it's important to remember that Robert Mueller wasn't involved from the outset though. We often refer to this entire Affair as the Mueller investigation when exactly did he take over

1 (6m 46s):
molar ended up taking over in May 2017. And what happened in between is that the FBI continued to investigate several people close to Trump for their ties to Russia including Michael Flynn

2 (7m 0s):
lock her up. That's right.

1 (7m 4s):
Trump had picked to be his National Security advisor. So during the transition period President Obama placed these sanctions on Russia and expelled Russian diplomats from the country in an attempt to punish them for their interference with the election and Michael Flynn then had a series of conversations with the ambassador to Russia Sergey. Kislyi act in which he told kislyi act basically. Not to retaliate too much over those sanctions. Basically, I play it cool and wait for Trump to get into office. Make sure that you can convey this. Okay, do not allow this Administration to boxes in right now.

1 (7m 46s):
Okay. It is like responds. We have conveyed it. Kislyi Act was heavily surveilled. So word of those conversations soon leaked out. The FBI was concerned about them. They were wondering about Flynn's motives here and So eventually they interviewed Flynn and Flynn gave a false story about what happened. He told vice president Mike Pence a false story. He told White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer a false story and he told the two FBI agents who interviewed him a false story. So when this all leaked out to the Press Trump asked when to step

2 (8m 26s):
down Mike Flynn is a fine person and I ask for his resignation. He respectfully gave

1 (8m 33s):
it, but the next Day Trump had a meeting with James Comey the director of the FBI. He asked Co me to stay behind after a larger meeting.

2 (8m 42s):
I understood it to be saying that what he wanted me to do is drop any investigation connected to Flynn's account of his conversations with the

1 (8m 49s):
Russians and Comey was very alarmed by this it struck him as being at least near the line of obstruction of justice from the president and made him wonder what the president was covering up so Comey

2 (9m 4s):
You

1 (9m 4s):
need to push forward with the Russia investigation in the ensuing months Trump became angry at Comey for first confirming the investigations existence during testimony to Congress. And then for refusing to say that Trump himself wasn't under investigation. So Trump then pulled the trigger and fired Comey in May 2017, which caused a crisis over the next week or so as all sorts of fears rained about what Trump might be covering up what he was trying to do here whether he was trying to corrupt the justice department and So eventually in response to all this pressure Deputy attorney general Rod Rosenstein appointed Robert Mueller as special counsel put him in charge of this whole Russia investigation and investigation of trump Associates ties to Russia, and that was May 2017 the molar investigation officially began

2 (10m 13s):
Mueller was a prosecutor.

1 (10m 15s):
He wanted to answer the question of whether there had been prosecutable crimes committed here rather than the broader question of whether there were inappropriate links to the Russian government or top advisors working on behalf of the Russian government in some way Mueller zeroed in On crimes and he found a lot of crimes

2 (10m 37s):
during the course of our investigation we charge more than 30 defendants with committing federal crimes including 12 officers of the Russian military seven defendants have been convicted or pled guilty in the end Mueller did

1 (10m 52s):
not prove any criminal conspiracy between Trump Associates and the Russian government his eventual reports revealed a lot of inappropriate

2 (11m 4s):
contact. Max and his report also did not

1 (11m 7s):
say that there was no collusion. It did not make that factual statement in

2 (11m 12s):
part because it's difficult to prove a

1 (11m 14s):
negative and members of Muller's team continue to have suspicions about what really might have happened. There were some areas that his investigation didn't look at all. So we've recently learned that they decided not to look at Trump's finances at all or the tribal organizations potential Financial. All ties to wealthy Russians, the closest molars team came to actually looking at Trump's organizations finances involve their investigation into Michael Cohen Trump's longtime lawyer and fixer.

2 (11m 48s):
I am providing the committee today with several documents and these include a copy of a check. Mr. Trump Road from his personal bank account after he became president. To reimburse me for the hush money payments. I made to cover up his affair with an adult film star and to prevent damage to his campaign

1 (12m 12s):
by after he pleaded guilty to that. He also admitted that he was secretly in talks with Russian officials during the 2016 campaign to strike a deal to build a Trump Tower in Moscow. Mr. Trump new

2 (12m 28s):
of and directed the Trump Moscow. Asians throughout the campaign and lied about it. He lied about it because he never expected to win. He also lied about it because he stood to make hundreds of millions of dollars on the Moscow real estate

1 (12m 49s):
project that provides one clue into something that may have been on Trump's mind involving Russia in the 2016 campaign. Just the potential to make money there. okay,

2 (13m 2s):
all told the molar report makes clear that the Trump campaign was up to all sorts of shady Shenanigans was clearly open to working with the Russian government and famously met with a Russian lawyer at Trump Tower for dirt on Hillary Clinton and it's important to remember that Mueller and his team looked into all sorts of efforts by the president himself to obstruct the investigation including firing Comey pressuring sessions floating the idea of pardoning stone and Fourth list goes on president president cannot be charged with a federal crime while he is in office that is unconstitutional. Even if the charge is kept under seal and hidden from public view that to is prohibited.

2 (13m 47s):
The special counsel's office is part of the Department of Justice and by regulation it was bound by that department policy charging the president with a crime was therefore not an option. We could consider molar didn't take a position on obstruction of justice, but pointed to heaps of evidence that you know, it transpired certainly nothing to brag about on the debate stage last night, but that didn't stop the president. I was put through a phony which Shunt can we just remind everyone how very real and incriminating this was for everyone standing around the guy Mueller wasn't legally allowed to charged with anything.

1 (14m 32s):
Yeah, we had a trump foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos who pleaded guilty to making false statements to the FBI. There was Paul manafort who was convicted and subsequently plead guilty to various financial and lobbying. Crimes, there was Rick Gates man affords deputy and Trump's Deputy campaign chair who pleaded guilty to similar charges as manafort. There was Michael Flynn who pleaded guilty to making false statements to the FBI though. He's now trying to withdraw that play there were 13 Russian Nationals and three Russian companies indicted on conspiracy charges related to spreading social media propaganda.

1 (15m 13s):
There was a California man named Richard Pinedo who? Guilty to an identity theft charge in relation to that. There was Alexander's Vaughn a lawyer from London who pleaded guilty to making false statements to molars team Constantine killing Nick Paul manafort Russian associate was charged with attempting to obstruct Justice by tampering with Witnesses though. He's in Russia like the other Russians indicted and what face those charges there are also 12 officers of Russia's Gru intelligence service charged with crimes related to the hacking and leaking of leading Democrats emails. Then there was Michael Cohen who pleaded guilty in another investigation to tax and Bank charges and campaign Finance violations, but also to lying to Congress about efforts to build the Trump Tower in Moscow, and there was Roger Stone who was indicted for witness tampering and obstruction of the house intelligence committees investigation into Russian interference Are you done?

1 (16m 25s):
Yeah. Yeah, that's it. Just just those ones apart apart from that they found nothing.

2 (16m 35s):
After the break, it's

1 (16m 37s):
Ukraine

2 (16m 38s):
explained. This is Advertiser content mutually exacerbate and catastrophes. It sounds like the beginning of some sci-fi Parable. But that's what the 2020 Gates Foundation goalkeepers report says is happening today and with more than 850,000 Global deaths twelve trillion dollars to be lost from the global economy and extreme poverty Rising for the first time in 20 years. It's fitting the Shell Code or works on development policy. And finance at the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.

2 (17m 18s):
He says this is an opportunity to recognize how interconnected the world is and create strong systems to end this pandemic and build a more Equitable future. We could be living in a world where we're able to get the virus under better control. The medical countermeasures governments are able to protect

1 (17m 34s):
their people and that the sort of temporary problems say temporary rather than become forever problems that said it does require political leadership. It does require thinking a little bit more. Beyond sort of the bounds of just your country and what's happening at this point in time and in your sphere so it's challenging to

2 (17m 52s):
there are of course endless other paths that we can take like one word governments don't come together to address the pandemic instead. We see closed borders each country for itself

1 (18m 5s):
New Zealand has zero cases for a hundred days and everything was fine. But the world the pendant was raging around them. It was always going to come back in and there's no way you can sort of walk yourself down for. Very nicely yourself forever even feedbacks and our entire population of get it under

2 (18m 19s):
control. You never fully certain until you really get the virus under control everywhere progress is possible but not inevitable and what our governments do now has a direct role to play and when and how these mutually exacerbating catastrophes end to learn more read the goalkeepers report at Gates foundation.org / goalkeepers. What does it take to make now work? First of all, we have to accept that things are changing. Changing fast, but what else the modes of norms of work or being left behind and won't return even after most of us return to work in Earnest Xerox can help they're helping businesses transform to meet these times with future facing Solutions Xerox can support your business by automating your workflows allowing you to digitize and store your data securely.

2 (19m 5s):
That means mortgage loans or unemployment can be processed faster meaning your business can pay attention to people not paper. They help you personalize it scale engaging your customers with Crucial human touch points to ensure continued connection and they support your team's wherever they are by modernizing it support and reducing bottlenecks. They can support your remote staff to help you create a truly flexible workplace for your employees to learn more about how Xerox makes now work for your unique team. Go to Xerox.com Vox that Xerox.com Vox. Ukraine Ukraine and the president didn't get impeached over the Mueller investigation, but he certainly did get impeached.

2 (19m 51s):
Why was it at Mahler? Why was it Ukraine that did the trick so

1 (19m 54s):
because Mueller did not decide whether to say whether the president obstructed Justice that kind of took the wind out of the sails for Democrats who wanted to impeach Trump over

2 (20m 6s):
Russia speaker Pelosi says President Trump is just not Worth it. Now. She is not closing the door completely on impeachment. But she says that unless there is something so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan that it's not worth it because impeachment would greatly divided the

1 (20m 21s):
country the left of the party really wanted to move forward in this but Democratic leaders and moderates were more hesitant until news broke about what Trump did with the president of Ukraine.

2 (20m 36s):
Tonight an explosive allegation by a government whistleblower that the White House engaged in a cover-up by stashing records of the president's phone call with a foreign leader in a top-secret computer now in that so

1 (20m 49s):
this rather than being something that happened all the way back in 2016. This was an attempt by Trump to

2 (20m 57s):
solicit a foreign government interference

1 (20m 60s):
with the upcoming election in 2020 when he expected that his opponent would be Joe Biden.

2 (21m 6s):
Want to talk about Biden's son that Biden stop the prosecution and a lot of people want to find out about that. The gist of it is that Trump

1 (21m 15s):
asked the president of Ukraine for load Amir

2 (21m 18s):
zalenski. I would like you to do us a favor though because our country has been through a lot and Ukraine knows a lot about it. I would like you to find out what happened with this whole situation with Ukraine to

1 (21m 32s):
have his people announced an investigation. Into a company that was tied to Hunter Biden joe side and

2 (21m 43s):
when zalenski did not seem to want to do this Trump just happen to

1 (21m 48s):
be holding up four hundred million dollars in military aid for Ukraine that the country was expecting and relying on for its conflict with Russia the whole debate became whether this was a quid pro quo that Trump was trying to get the military aid. For the help and the election by smearing the

2 (22m 9s):
guidance. Why did Democrats decide to take up impeachment on this call on this quid pro

1 (22m 17s):
quo. Well, it was a currently unfolding plot to try to get Trump to win the election. It seems highly inappropriate to use the powers of the presidency for campaign dirty tricks essentially to once again, try to strong-arm a reluctant foreign leader into providing this campaign assistance. And basically they wanted to let Trump know that. This was unacceptable.

2 (22m 45s):
I have been patient probably tried every other path and use every other two. We will never find the truth unless we use the power given to the House of Representatives and the house alone to begin an official investigation. As dictated by the Constitution

1 (23m 6s):
and this proved to be a cause that could win over the vulnerable

2 (23m 12s):
moderates just last night ten Democrats. Most of them from swing districts the kind of Democrats who have been most cautious about impeachment all announced that if the new allegations are true that they would then be open to impeachment proceedings. And if memory serves the public hearings began in November of last year, this is the first Series of public hearings the committee will be holding his part of the houses impeachment inquiry.

1 (23m 39s):
So they brought in a host of characters from the Trump Administration. Mainly the state department people who are involved in Ukraine policy. There is Fiona Hill who is the worked on Russia policy for the National Security Council.

2 (23m 53s):
He was being involved in a domestic political errant and we were being involved in National Security foreign policy and those two things that just diverged

1 (24m 3s):
there was Gordon son. Leland who was the u.s. Ambassador to the European Union.

2 (24m 8s):
Was there a quid pro quo as I testified previously with regard to the requested White House call and the White House meeting. The answer is yes,

1 (24m 19s):
and there was a bill Taylor another state official working on Ukraine policy at

2 (24m 25s):
the same time. However, I'm cure encountered an irregular informal channel of US policy making with respect to Ukraine. Unaccountable to Congress in the end.

1 (24m 37s):
There was still a matter of some dispute over whether Trump had explicitly directly tied the hold on the aid for Ukraine to the attempt to get this campaign dirt and to get Biden and Burr yzma

2 (24m 52s):
investigated. There was no pressure. Look at the call president slansky President Trump. No pressure. There was no conditionality. There was nothing done to get the aid and the aid actually came. But it was pretty

1 (25m 4s):
clear what happened here. And what Trump was trying to do

2 (25m 8s):
by withholding hundreds of million millions of dollars in military aid to a nation at war in order to get that Nation to intervene in our election by smearing his opponent So

1 (25m 23s):
eventually in December Democrats in the house drafted An approved two articles of impeachment against the president of the United States the first alleged that he He abused his power related to this whole Caper and the second alleged that he obstructed Congress in his attempt to block Witnesses from testifying or documents from being handed over in congress's investigation of this matter

2 (25m 50s):
the clerk will call the roll. Mr. Nadler. Hi. Mr. Nadler votes aye mr. Richmond. Mr. Richmond, but she asked mr. Jeffrey's. Mr. Jeffries with our Master Smallville. Yes, mr. Slovaks. Yes, mr. Liu, mr. Lugosi. Sir asking mr. Asking those I'm sorry. Mr. Bolivar Zionist demux the stomachs with I'm secure area Mr. Curry evokes. I miss Phelan Miss Scanlon Burns iron Miss Garcia Garcia Versailles. Mr. Goose. Mr. Gosar. Mr. Collins. Mr. Collins was no mr. Schaben. Mr. Chabot was no mr. McLintock. Mr. McClintock votes. No, mr. Lesko his let's go votes. No, mr.

2 (26m 30s):
Kelly votes. No. Mr. Klein. Mr. Klein this no, mr. Arm. Drunk, mr. Armstrong votes. No, mr. Stevie. Mr. Stevie votes now. It feels like such a distant memory. Now that the president was in fact impeached by the house back in December of 2019. Of course it then went to the senate for a trial where nothing really happened. It is therefore ordered and adjudged that the said Donald John Trump be and he is here by acquitted of the charges in said articles. What was the upshot of the

1 (27m 3s):
impeachment of Donald Trump, you know, I don't think the impeachment Saga was Costless for Trump he This plan that he was very proud of to get Ukraine to dirty up the Biden's and the plan was ruined people exposed it and and he looked political and he lost what he was hoping would be one of his main lines of attack on Biden during the fall the the entire Ukraine attack has been somewhat discredited because of the impeachment Saga but as far as actually removing the president from Office, it just looks like that is not going to happen in this very partisan. Panera

2 (27m 41s):
it was a bit of a tumultuous experience for the Foreign Service as I recall has that had a lasting impact. I mean a lot of diplomats were called in to testify and the president was blasting a lot of them as they testified on Twitter.

1 (27m 56s):
Well, this has been going on throughout the government and it's been a very disturbing Trend that the people who do speak up about Trump's conduct or who attempt to thwart his wishes. When he's trying to do something unethical they don't get rewarded really. In fact, they usually get punished Trump tries to retaliate against them. That is actually exactly what we're seeing in the Justice Department right now with regards to the Russian investigation since Bowlers team finished up its work Trump's new attorney general Bill bar has launched a series of reviews about what exactly top.

1 (28m 40s):
Oils in the Russia investigation did he's repeatedly hinted that these officials might be in danger of criminal charges. So it's an investigation of the investigators which has been unfolding and that's a worrying sign that you have in both of these cases rub some Republicans were disturbed by what Trump did but the vast majority of party officials and importantly the party's base voters as well decided to stick with Trump. Rather than to try to sanction him or check him in this

2 (29m 14s):
it feels like both the Russia investigation and the impeachment over the quid pro quo scandal in Ukraine. Not only tested this presidency, but sort of tested

1 (29m 27s):
the

2 (29m 27s):
foundations of American democracy itself. What did we learn when we

1 (29m 34s):
saw our democracy being tested on TV in these investigations? Instigations. I think what we've learned is that in the way our system currently Works partisanship is extremely powerful and that Trump in both cases proved very Savvy about constructing a counter narrative in which he was in fact the victim and there were various saboteurs in the Deep state or among the Democratic party who are the true villains in both of these Areas, and a lot of the conservative base and conservative members of Congress ate that up, you know, it's really not clear especially in the case of if a president breaks the law.

1 (30m 31s):
It's really not clear what can be done about that at this point. It's pretty alarming stuff. We have a president who's been been more corrupt and unethical than any president in decades, probably since Richard Nixon and the system has proven completely unable to check him. It's entirely up to the voters and if Trump does win a second term then then everything we've talked about here. We'll just be the prologue to what he's going to be up to

2 (31m 3s):
then. Andrew Prokop, he's a senior correspondent to vaux who guided us through I don't even know how many episodes of Ukraine explained and Mueller coverage. You can find much more of his reporting at vox.com and you can find out more about our series on the Trump years at vox.com Trump years. We'll be back with more next week.

1 (31m 40s):
And now the ones we lost along the way John mcentee

2 (31m 48s):
a personal aide to President Trump escorted out of the White House

1 (31m 51s):
fired John feely resigned

2 (31m 56s):
John Dowd resigned Gary Cohen. This is will guarantee continue what we made Administration now, I'm very happy. Resigned David Sorenson resigned Rachel brand resigned Omarosa em, Newman Omarosa was fired three times on The Apprentice. And this was the fourth time. We let her go fired Taylor way in has resigned Josh raffle resigned Andrew McCabe.

2 (32m 40s):
We don't train at Quantico for here's what to do. When you think you need to investigate the president of the United States. This is not a topic that we talked about fired. Rob Porter resigned Brenda Fitzgerald resigned Rex Tillerson, and I have to say to him. Well, mr. President. I understand what you want to do, but you can't do it that way. It violates the law it violates treaty you. You got really frustrated fired.

2 (33m 43s):
Hi, I'm Neil Patel co-founder and editor and chief of The Verge and host of decoder a new podcast from The Verge in the VOX media podcast network of a big ideas and other problems for over a decade. I've been interviewing leaders from the worlds of Technology business and policy about how they run their organizations make decisions and consider policy changes that could fundamentally alter entire Industries like Senator Ed Markey on the future of connectivity in America. Broadband has become the equivalence of Water or electricity for people AMD CEO. Dr. Lisa Sue on building the next generation of processors. The idea was technology is you have to make a set of choices three to five years in advance Google an alphabet CEO Sundar pichai on the current crisis and adapting to it cold.

2 (34m 29s):
It is blurred the lines between consumer and Enterprise and people are using products in all kinds of contexts and Neil Young on. Well his feelings the MacBook Pro. It's a piece of crap. Are you kidding with decoder? I'll be during these conversations with a diverse cast of CEOs policymakers and innovators some you know, and some you wouldn't expect we'll talk about how they're navigating and ever-changing Landscape what keeps them up at night and what it all means for our shared future. We're asking tough questions going to break some news and we're going to have some fun. So look for a decoder With Me Line Patel in apple podcast or your favorite podcasts.