0 (1s):
This is advertiser content.

1 (4s):
Facebook leads the industry in stopping bad actors online that's because they've invested $13 billion in teams and technology to enhance safety. Over the last five years, it's working in just the past few months, they've taken down 1.7 billion fake accounts to stop bad actors from doing harm, but working to reduce harmful and elicit content on their platforms is never done. Learn more about how they're helping people connect and share safely and about.fb.com/safety.

2 (42s):
The shooting and Oxford highest school in Michigan last week was just the latest in a long agonizing line. But the aftermath has been different from maybe any other. The order of,

0 (53s):
Of events that lead up to the shooting happening are fairly distinct.

2 (58s):
McLennan has been covering the tragedy for w T public radio in Detroit.

0 (1m 4s):
And the fact that there are charges coming with this, that haven't been sought in school students before. There's a terrorism SARDS

3 (1m 13s):
Of terrorism causing death. Four counts of first degree murder, seven counts of assault with intent to murder and 12 counts of possession of a firearm in the commission of a felony.

0 (1m 26s):
And the parents are being charged, which will be a really interesting precedent.

3 (1m 30s):
I am announcing charges against the shooter's parents. James crumbly is charged with four counts of involuntary manslaughter. Jennifer crumbly is also charged with four counts of involuntary man.

2 (1m 42s):
Okay, well, let's talk about all of those things in the order. You laid them out, starting with the lead up to the shooting. What about the lead-up to the shooting made it sort of unusual?

0 (1m 52s):
It was a fairly short lead up to it. November 26 was black Friday, James Crumbley, who is the father of Ethan Crumbley, who is eventual suitor purchased a six hour nine millimeter handgun, which is kind of like a pistol type gun on black Friday. And on Saturday, his mom posted on social media saying that they were having mothers son, time testing out his new Christmas present. He goes to school on Monday, the day before the shooting school staff had caught him looking up gun ammo on his phone. They sent him to a counselor at the school. He said that it's because, you know, shooting was a family hobby and the parents were contacted, but they never showed up when the prosecutor was announcing charges.

0 (2m 37s):
So he had said that they'd found a text message to Ethan from his mom, Jennifer, basically saying, LOL, I'm not mad about it. You just have to learn not to get caught.

2 (2m 47s):
His mom said, LOL, I'm not mad that you got caught looking up ammo at school for your new gun. Just don't get caught next time. This is a 15 year old

0 (2m 59s):
Right. Shooting as a hobby for people. So like that's one thing, but the parents didn't respond to the school when they called them. And then that was the day before the shooting and the morning of the shooting, he was caught by a teacher drawing a

3 (3m 15s):
Violent picture in class doodling. What did it look like? It had bullets on it. It had a body that appeared to have been shot twice on it. According to the prosecutor that was bleeding. And it had phrases kind of written around on it, have a semiautomatic handgun pointing at the words, quote, the thoughts won't stop, help me and quote, further down the drawing or their words. Quote, my life is useless and quote, and to the night right of that are the words quote, the world is dead. Okay.

0 (3m 47s):
So the teacher, obviously it took an accident on that. Had them go to the office. They called the parents and the parents came in. This is the day of the shooting. This is the morning of the shooting. And Ethan hit, I guess, after he got caught, he started like, you know, scratching stuff out and scribbling things out to try to cover it up. But it was what was, there was still kind of there. So when the parents came in, they were given 48 hours to get him into counseling or else siloed services were going to be called, but the parents are pretty resistant to everything that was happening. They refuse to take them out of school. That day, left him in class left without him, and never asked him about his gun or anything what's during the whole time was in his backpack while he was in the office.

0 (4m 31s):
And he returned to class despite being on that kind of 48 hour clock. And then around 1:00 PM, he went into a bathroom and came out with the gun in his hand and started firing

2 (4m 48s):
How many people are injured and tiny people are killed.

0 (4m 51s):
11 people were injured, it was 10 students and one teacher. And then of the injuries, four students were killed

2 (5m 2s):
And Ethan survives. He

0 (5m 3s):
Survived and he had more rounds with them. But when law enforcement showed up, he stopped and turned himself in. He then, which is, you know, your legal, right? He wasn't cooperating further without an attorney. Tell me more

2 (5m 15s):
About what he's eventually

0 (5m 16s):
Charged with. There's a fairly extensive laundry list of charges. Four counts of murder, obviously for the four that died. And there's a terrorism Sarge in there and the prosecutor left the door open to potentially add more as things go forward. Why

2 (5m 30s):
Did the prosecutors bring this terrorism charge, which is sort

0 (5m 33s):
Of exceptional. Karen McDonald is the Oakland county prosecutor where this happened and she basically cited the emotional impact on everybody that was there.

3 (5m 42s):
What about all the children who ran screaming, hiding under desks? What about all the children at home right now who can't eat and can't sleep and can't imagine a world where they could ever step back foot back in that school. Those are victims too. And so are families. And so as a community and the, the charge of terrorism

0 (6m 2s):
And I know terrorism laws are a bit different in every state in Michigan, the person has to intimidate or quartz the civilian population or influence government conduct. They were kind of pointing at the intimidating, the population aspect of it. You knew it was going to be dangerous to human life because you were suiting people. And with an intent to intimidate is essentially the angle that they'll have to go at for this. It'll be an interesting precedent because I know antiterrorism laws are different in every state in Michigan. There, there seems to be a window for that.

2 (6m 35s):
And then not long after they charged him, they come and charge his parents. Huh?

3 (6m 40s):
The shooter was the one who entered the high school and pulled the trigger. There are other individuals who contributed to this, to the events on November 30th. And it's my intention to hold them accountable as well.

0 (6m 50s):
Yeah. And this is where it gets kind of complicated. They're charging them with involuntary manslaughter for the four that die. But there were a lot more people than that injured. He's being tried as an adult, but his parents are being tried for responsibility. And that's going to be kind of an interesting line to draw. Can you Sarge, the parents, if they're being prosecuted as an adult, and once these

2 (7m 10s):
Which is on the parents are announced, Ethan's parents book,

0 (7m 15s):
They booked it before the charges were announced. It seems we

5 (7m 19s):
Activated a manhunt when charges were issued to locate them immediately.

0 (7m 29s):
Everyone knew the night before that there were going to be charges. And the morning of the parents had made a withdrawal from an ATM was about $4,000. Apparently they turned off their cell phones, which hasn't been mentioned too much, but was brought up during the arraignment. Once the sergeants were announced on Friday, they had until I think the arraignment time was set for 4:00 PM. You know, that came and went and nothing had happened. The manhunt had started before the arraignment time was up because the law enforcement seemed to understand that they had been out of contact with their attorneys. At that point, they were ghosting their attorneys. We,

5 (8m 6s):
The indication that the, the couple was not responding to texts or phone calls of their attorney. So again, to us, that's irrelevant. We're looking for them if they show up fine, but we're not going to sit at the front desk and tap our fingers until they come in.

0 (8m 21s):
But ultimately they were found hiding in Detroit, in a commercial building

5 (8m 28s):
At approximately one 30 in the morning, the two suspects were taken into custody at 11 Bellevue and Detroit. They were in an art studio

0 (8m 38s):
And it's about 40 miles away from Oxford and over a county line from where they're being prosecuted,

5 (8m 45s):
Fugitive apprehension team took custody and possession of them. And they were formally lodged in our jail where they remain at about zero 300, about three o'clock in the morning.

2 (8m 60s):
So now mom, dad, and son are all being held in the same jail. Is that right?

0 (9m 6s):
Yeah, but they, they won't be allowed to intermingle or anything like that. And that was something that was asked of the Oakland county sheriff. My boots are no talking,

5 (9m 15s):
No communication. They're all three in isolation.

2 (9m 18s):
On top of the school shooting, you have all of these exceptional charges, you've got the parents booking it and then being found. It's just this extremely dramatic and emotional story. How is the community reacting in Oxford in Oakland, some 30, 40 miles north of Detroit,

0 (9m 36s):
The community hasn't had a shooting like this before. So it's certainly a shock to the system as it were. There's been a lot of support for the families of the surviving people and the ones who didn't survive of one of the kids who was and died was an organ donor. There was a big public display by the hospital.

6 (9m 55s):
When word got out on social media, friends, family loved ones, came out to want to show their support to the Schilling family. The plan right now is at some point, the family will come up to the windows and look down and see this outpouring of

0 (10m 9s):
The lions won a football game this weekend, which is rare enough by itself. And the coach lamp was dedicating the game ball. This game ball goes to

7 (10m 16s):
Oxford, temerity, all those reflective.

8 (10m 21s):
I hope they're all watching today. And we're able to enjoy that when, and, and we can take their minds off it for whatever it may be three hours.

0 (10m 29s):
There's also a sense in the community of frustration from some people with the high school. And that's something where like maybe laws will have to be evaluated and stuff. Cause you know, you can't just go and search somebody's belongings without a, a reason. But if, if the kid is caught making a very violent drawing, could we at minimum make a rule to tack their backpack? Given the school had no way of knowing they had that, but there's like such clear, like lead up to it over a store period of time that like any little thing could have taken care of this and nothing happens. So there's a lot of frustration there.

3 (11m 5s):
Hannah St. Juliana, age 14, a volleyball player and a basketball player. Madison Baldwin, age 17, the talented artists and big sister Tate Meyer, a junior football player and honor student Justin Schilling, age 15 co-captain of the Oxford bowling team and a golfer.

0 (11m 49s):
This is advertiser content,

9 (11m 54s):
Facebook safety teams protect billions of people each month. They lead the industry in stopping bad actors online. That's because they've invested more than $13 billion in the last five years, quadrupling their safety and security teams to 40,000 people and investing in industry leading AI technology to enhance safety on their platforms. It's working in just the last few months. They've taken action on a 1.7 billion fake accounts, 30 million violent and graphic posts, 32.8 million explicit adult posts, 7.1 million terrorism related posts and 3.8 million drugs and firearms sales posts, but working to reduce harmful and elicit content on their platforms is never done. Keeping your feed safe will continue to be everyone's priority at Facebook.

9 (12m 35s):
Learn more about how they're helping people connect and share safely at about.fb.com/safety.

10 (12m 48s):
My name is Jillian Peterson. I'm an associate professor of criminology and Hamlin university and I'm co-president of the violence project. What's

2 (12m 56s):
The violence project.

10 (12m 58s):
The violence project is a nonpartisan nonprofit research center. That's focused on reducing violence in society using data and research.

2 (13m 8s):
We heard it early in the show that the parents of Ethan crumbly are being charged with involuntary manslaughter for their alleged role in the lead up to this shooting in Oxford. How often are parents charged in these cases in these school shootings?

10 (13m 24s):
It is actually very rare. There's been a few cases where parents have been charged for their children doing other sorts of shootings, but in our database, which tracks mass shootings in which four more people were killed. If we look at school shootings, there's never been a parent charged in our database and never, never, but 60% of the guns that are used in those school shootings are coming from parents. That's the most common way that kids are getting their guns that they use.

2 (13m 55s):
What does it take to get a parent charged for, for a child conducting a school shooting?

10 (14m 2s):
Yeah, this is sort of new territory actually. So the charges that they are facing in voluntary manslaughter means that there was no premeditation. They didn't intend for anyone to die, but they were so reckless. And so grossly negligent that they weren't thinking about the consequences of their actions and that caused people to die. So the prosecution definitely has some work to do to sort of lay that case out.

2 (14m 30s):
We know what the laws are in Michigan and even across the country regarding keeping a gun away from a minor in the house.

10 (14m 38s):
It's really this patchwork of laws across the country when it comes to requiring safe storage. And we know that less than half of states have anything on the books. So the strictest one is in Massachusetts where you're required to have your gun locked whenever it's stored. And there's places like in California, where a parent could be arrested for having a gun that a child could access in the home, but that would require going and kind of knocking on doors with search warrants, which just isn't done in Michigan. There's no law requiring safe storage.

2 (15m 15s):
And of course in this particular case in Michigan, it sounds like there were just so many red flags. The kid was looking up ammunition in class. He was leaving these horrific notes in class. They had had a meeting that very date. This two feels pretty exceptional that there are this many red flags, right?

10 (15m 34s):
And it isn't, I think in many ways the Oxford shooting matches a lot of the school shootings that we've covered in our research and in our book where it's a white male student of the school, they're in a noticeable crisis, they're leaking their plans. They're crying out for help. They're taking their parents' guns. So all of those patterns we see over and over and over again, I think what is unique about this case is the fact that it was brought to the parents' attention right before the shooting. And they seem to have dismissed it.

2 (16m 7s):
Does the school bear some of the responsibility here. I know you're saying this is the first time we're seeing the parents being held to account so forcefully, but has the school ever been held to account? Should the school have said, Hey, let us see your bag. We're going to search it for the weapon.

10 (16m 22s):
I mean, in retrospect, it's so easy to say, of course they should have. And best practices would be that the school should really have a team approach, either a crisis response team or a threat assessment team, but some approach. So it's not resting on the hands of one individual to decide what to do with a case like this, but threats this year are just absolutely through the roof. So schools are dealing with threats on a daily basis across the country, and they're having to decide what serious. What's a joke who has real access, who doesn't. And that's a really hard position to put schools in over and over again. They're not adequately resourced and they just don't have the time and energy to really investigate each of these threats.

10 (17m 5s):
Like they need to be,

2 (17m 7s):
Tell me more. I didn't realize threats were through the roof this year.

10 (17m 10s):
So we have been tracking threats of school shootings. And if you look at the last three years, like 20 18, 20 19, it's around 30 threats a year. On average, if we just look at the month of September, this year in September, we had 151 threats that we identified. So that's an astronomical increase

2 (17m 32s):
Is going on. Is this school's coming back? And kids are maladjusted or something what's up?

10 (17m 38s):
I think so. I think this is a lot of the risk factors that we know of when it comes to school shootings are on the rise due to the pandemic. So things like social isolation and depression, hopelessness, suicidality spending a lot of time online and firearm sales is also at record highs over the last year. So there's just more access to guns. Hm.

2 (18m 3s):
Our community is reacting to this. What sounds like an exponential rise in threats.

10 (18m 9s):
Yeah. Schools are doing all sorts of things from canceling classes to providing escorts, to students, to really extreme things. Like there was a school in Idaho that kind of went viral because they actually banned backpacks. And so you see these pictures of kids carrying their books in and laundry baskets and wagons.

11 (18m 28s):
I brought his laundry basket of books to class, which is good. Could serve double duty, right? You could always fill it with those, right.

10 (18m 36s):
I think schools don't know what to do, but they feel like they have to do something. And so one of the reasons that we've been doing this research and writing this book is that there are things that schools can do beyond things like banning backpacks and putting in more Bulletproof glass for a lot of schools, they're taking a lot of their resources and putting them into things like lockdown drills and school resource officers and you know, doors that are Bulletproof and angles around classrooms. So bullets can't hit them. And the reality is none of that stuff really prevent shootings. So if we could take all of the resources we're putting in to that piece and move it into prevention, I think we could have an impact.

10 (19m 20s):
Bulletproof

2 (19m 20s):
Doors don't prevent shootings.

10 (19m 23s):
Yeah. The most common person by far, if someone's going to perpetrate a school shooting over 90% of the time, it's a student of that school. So a lot of the things we do are to keep these kinds of bad guy monsters out of the school. But the reality is the perpetrators in the building. They're going through the drills, they're going in and out of the security, they're sitting next to our children in classrooms in some ways that makes prevention harder. But in many ways it makes it easier because we can think about what can we do in our school buildings to make sure no kid in there ever wants to do this?

2 (19m 58s):
What would you rather do with those

10 (19m 60s):
Resources? You know, one of the things we learned in doing this research is that there are laws that we want to change, certainly, but there are things that schools and communities and even individuals can do in their own lives that can have an impact that don't need the passage of a law. So things like putting in better crisis communication systems and training staff in suicide prevention and making sure we're funding school-based mental health. A lot of those things can really happen on the local level.

2 (20m 29s):
How about a federal law saying, you know, you got to keep your guns out of reach from your kids, which seems like pretty logical bare minimum stuff. Is there support for something like that? So there could be more consistency from state to state,

10 (20m 42s):
Safe storage of firearms is actually something that has really good support on both sides of the aisle from gun owners and from non gun owners. And it would make a big impact. There was a recent study from 2015 that found that one in five gun owners with a child in their household leaves their guns locked and loaded. So ready to just grab it just the least secure way you can store it. So it's something that everybody tends to agree on. It has a huge diffusion of benefit. So it's not just about preventing mass shootings. It's also preventing accidental shootings and suicides and domestic violence. There's estimates that it could reduce shootings in the home by 75%.

10 (21m 23s):
So this is something that feels like it has good support. It feels easy to secure your guns and the impacts could be huge.

2 (21m 32s):
And have you seen any positive movement in that direction since this Oxford shooting last week,

10 (21m 37s):
I've heard people talking about it, which always happens in the wake of the shootings as we do a lot of talking and then it tends to fade away. So this is something that I can hope that we can keep the conversation going about. Even after this isn't in the news anymore.

2 (21m 60s):
Jillian Peterson is with the violence project and she's the coauthor of the violence project. How to stop a mass shooting epidemic earlier in the show you heard from Alex McLennan, from w D E T public radio in Detroit, you can find and support his work@wdet.org. Our show today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain engineered by Paul mousey. Fact-checked by Laura Bullard and edited by me. I'm Sean Rama's from it's today explained

4 (23m 1s):
This is advertiser.

9 (23m 4s):
Facebook has invested $13 billion in teams and technology to enhance safety over the last five years. And the past few months they've taken down 1.7 billion fake accounts. Learn more about their ongoing work at about.fb.com/safety.