1 (2s):
All right. Michigan's primary is today, and Michigan's got a lot of Muslims and Arab Americans, and a lot of them are reconsidering their support of President Joe Biden. In light of the Israel Hamas War,

2 (14s):
We will not cast a vote for the person who green-lighted the genocide of our people.

1 (21s):
We reached out to an Arab American activist to take the temperature, and he had something surprising to say.

3 (26s):
So they are looking at alternatives and they are hearing alternatives.

1 (30s):
That's not surprising. Alternatives, maybe Joel Stein, maybe little RFK, maybe not voting at all. And

3 (35s):
There are those in the community that are seriously listening and engaging with the Trump team in an effort to win over Arab and Muslim support. So don't be surprised if those efforts actually do work while the Biden administration continues to take our votes for granted.

1 (51s):
Biden's not gonna lose the primary, but coming up on today explained, we're gonna ask what Michigan might tell us about the general

Lumen (59s):
Support for today. Explain comes from Lumen. Have you looked in the mirror lately? Lumen wants to know and found yourself surprised by dark circles or fine lines. You may wanna consider Lumen, which is a skincare line crafted, especially for men who wanna look and feel their best. Their Dark Circle Defense Balm is a lightweight gel that Lumen claims can instantly plump dehydration, lines, and reduce the appearance of dark circles. Sean. You can head over to lumen skin.com/today and get your free trial of Lumen, dark Circle, defense Balm, and other products. Now your skin just might. Thank you.

On with Kara Swisher (1m 37s):
Hi, this is Kara Swisher, host of On with Kara Swisher from New York Magazine and Vox Media. This week on the podcast, I sat down with Roberta Kaplan, the renowned lawyer, who recently represented Eugene Carroll in her defamation case against Former President Donald Trump, and won $83.3 million. Won not too shabby. Kaplan and I discussed her strategy for taking on Trump, his abhorrent behavior in and out of the court, and potential outcomes of the cases against him that are still outstanding And. we also talked about a case she's waging against Elon Musk. It's a great conversation in, its available now wherever you get your podcasts.

6 (2m 15s):
20 20, 20 24

1 (2m 22s):
Today explained Sean Rameswaram firm, joined by Abed Ayub, who's the National Director of the A DC, the American Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee. He and his organization are trying to get Arab and Muslim Americans to register protest votes against Biden's Israel policies in Michigan's primary today.

3 (2m 41s):
The community in Michigan is very diverse. It is the largest Muslim community, but also the highest concentrated Arab American community. So you have a number of Arab Muslims as well as South Asian Muslim, black Muslim communities out there. But the Arab community is one that's the most concentrated in in Dearborn in the areas right outside of Dearborn.

1 (2m 60s):
We asked him to tell us about how these communities are thinking about their votes in today's primary, but also the general election later this year. And as a flag, abed used the G word a lot in our conversation, and devout listeners of today explained know that while a lot of people believe this is a genocide, the International Court of Justice said, Israel needs to prevent a genocide, but has not yet said Israel. Is Indeed doing a genocide? Okay, that said, here's ab

3 (3m 27s):
Right. now Arab and Muslim American voters are frustrated. They're not happy with the Biden administration, and they're certainly not happy with the ongoing genocide and the lack of commitment by the Biden administration to end it. So they are looking at alternatives and they are hearing alternatives. And included in the alternatives is outreach from the Trump campaign. And there are those in the community that are seriously listening and engaging with the Trump team in an effort to win over Arab and Muslim support. So don't be surprised if those efforts actually do work while the Biden administration continues to take our votes for granted.

1 (4m 4s):
We'll get to the Trump stuff in a minute, but first we asked about something called the Uncommitted campaign.

3 (4m 9s):
A lot of the work around the primary is focused on the uncommitted campaign. So in Michigan and in a few other states. And it's unique where you, you have the option of voting uncommitted. So if you are voting on the Democratic primary and you don't like the options that are there, including Joe Biden, you would vote uncommitted. That's saying, I don't approve of any of the candidates you have. I'm not committing to any of them. So that's the organizing happening. Now on the Democratic side in Michigan,

7 (4m 37s):
This is the way you can raise our voices, Right. now we feel completely neglected and just unseen by our government. If you want us to be louder, then come here and vote uncommitted.

3 (4m 47s):
It is gaining momentum. We're seeing it all over the news, national news, because Michigan is gonna set the tone for Arab voters across the country and Muslim voters across the country. And it's gonna send a message to the Biden administration, to the Biden campaign that they're handling of Gaza, they're handling of the genocide is not a, you know, something that's gaining approval within the Democratic base. And the mistake people are making in Michigan is looking at this only as an Arab or a Muslim issue. Evan

8 (5m 15s):
McKenzie is a Starbucks worker and union organizer in Madison, Wisconsin who cast his very first presidential ballot for Joe Biden. Do you plan on voting for him this time around?

9 (5m 25s):
No. He is allowing this war to happen and, and is funding this war.

3 (5m 30s):
If you've spent any time in southeast Michigan and Dearborn in Detroit, you know where our allies stand. you know where our neighbors stand, the people we went to high school with, our allies are our neighbors, the people we do business with, the people we grew up with, the people we go to our churches in mosques with, they're our neighborhoods, right? They're, they're are our community. And that includes black, Hispanic, white, Albanian, Bengali. You go down the list, you know, last night I received a text message from friends of mine that are from Vietnam, and, you know, seven or eight of 'em were tell, were telling me that they voted uncommitted. Hmm. you know, in solidarity with Gaza, what's happening? So this is not only isolated to Arab or Muslim voters in Michigan.

3 (6m 13s):
This is a problem within the Democratic base across Southeast Michigan. And at the same time, you have the Trump administration pushing their Arab American outreach.

1 (6m 25s):
Really? Donald Trump is pushing Arab American outreach.

3 (6m 29s):
Donald Trump is doing Arab American outreach, Muslim American outreach. Don't sleep on it because you know, it's, people wanna laugh, right? That's our first reaction. But it's working. If you understand our community, you understand how to deal with our community. You understand that, you know, be direct, be open, be straightforward. No bullshit. Republicans are good at that. They're better at that than Democrats. And I think that's a key distinction between the way Biden's doing outreach, and Trump is doing outreach.

1 (7m 3s):
I'm sure this community famously remembers his Muslim ban and his deeply pro-Israel stance.

3 (7m 9s):
You could take the Muslim ban, you could take his pro-Israel stance. Here's the community's perspective again, not mine. That's a disclaimer. We

10 (7m 15s):
Will make sure that we'll punish Joe Biden by making him one term president. If Trump's becomes president, you know, I'm sure America will survive. Trump just like it survived him the first time. It'll survive Trump once again. We've

3 (7m 28s):
Lived through it. We, we fought back for those four years. We pushed back And. we found ways to fight back against his policies. But the one thing we didn't have was a genocide with the Muslim ban and the Arab ban. It's not like it's gone away. Sure Biden signed the executive order, but you still have people waiting months, years to get their visas. The people that were impacted by the Muslim ban, their cases weren't reopened, their visas weren't reissued. So it's like we're still stuck in the same position. you know, it was all smoke and mirrors. There wasn't really anything done by the Biden administration to fix the problems of the Muslim ban. So you do have, you know, a, a Con, a contingency within the Arab community and the Muslim community that's willing to say, you know what, we'll, we'll speak to him, and if he does the right moves and the Trump campaign does the right things, we don't mind voting for him.

1 (8m 18s):
I, I appreciate what you're saying about the Muslim ban. But Joe Biden purports to, you know, want a two state solution. He's sent representatives to Michigan to speak with the Muslim community there. He says he wants fewer deaths. He says he wants Israel to minimize civilian casualties. Donald Trump, on the other hand, though, he didn't preside over a war of this scale, move the US Embassy to Jerusalem in a very symbolic show of support for Israel's claim to that part of this region. Do Muslim Americans really believe they could get a better deal from Donald Trump?

3 (8m 55s):
This notion or belief that, oh, I'm gonna promise a two state based on what a two state, based on which borders a two state based on current settlement expansion, a two state based on a Gaza that's, that's, that's locked, locked in and, and has no freedom of movement or a two state based on the West Bank that's been eaten up by settlements and settlers putting violence. This is what the community says. The myth of a two-state solution is not working. These are Bill Clinton talking points. These are from the nineties and eighties. These, these are not flying in the community. And that's the disconnect with Joe Biden and the Democratic Party.

1 (9m 27s):
I'm just wondering, the thing I'm stuck on is how Donald Trump presents a better alternative for Muslim American voters. When this is Donald Trump of shithole countries. Donald Trump of the Muslim ban Donald Trump of, I was a hundred percent right about Muslims cheering about the nine 11 attacks. How does anyone believe he cares about Palestinians dying in Gaza?

3 (9m 52s):
Is Donald Trump a better option than Joe Biden? I personally don't think so. But there are others in the community that are looking at the failure of Biden and saying, you know what, with everything else Donald Trump had, maybe a lot of it was just words. But at the same time, we, we did not see a genocide happen. We did not see a genocide occur. And that to them, you know, tho, tho those dead family members, those dead bodies, those images we're seeing, that's enough. That's enough for them to say, give me a few bad tweets and a few mean words and let my family members live.

1 (10m 25s):
I, I mean, I guess I'm wondering how many people out there are you, do you really think we're talking about here? Who, who might not just vote, you know, uncommitted or vote for a third party candidate like Joel Steiner or Robert Kennedy, but would actually not vote for Biden and instead vote for Donald Trump?

3 (10m 42s):
I think with the Uncommitted campaign, you know, there is gonna be a high turnout, there's gonna be a high number of folks, you know, selecting uncommitted. But even from that campaign, you're gonna have a breakout where you're probably gonna have some individuals from the uncommitted campaign, a pocket of them, you know, go on and still continue to support Biden in the general election. But a majority of them are gonna say, what is our, what's our our alternative? Are we just gonna sit out the presidential election from that pocket? You're gonna have a smaller group that's gonna say, you know what, we're gonna engage with the Trump campaign to see what we could do. So there's a number of scenarios which could play out.

1 (11m 37s):
Abed Ayub, he's the director of a DC National, that's the American Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee. When we're back, we're gonna ask a guy who's been following Michigan politics for decades, how much this campaign we just heard about might make or break. Joe Biden

Noom (12m 6s):
Support For the program today comes from Noom, who would like to remind you that your body is like no one else's. Your body is a snowflake, and they wanna help you with your snowflake. According to Noom. They build a plan specifically for you based around psychology and biology, even helping you understand why you might crave that one specific food at the same time every day. I've never craved the same food at the same time every day, but maybe Vox iss, Sarah Frank has Using Noom. I liked how easy it was to get set up, and I liked their super friendly features that allowed me to track and input my workouts, goals, moods, and stress levels every day You can stay focused on what's important to you with Noom psychology and biology based approach. Sign up for your trial today at Noom dot com. That's NOO m.com.

4 (13m 4s):
Hey, before we get back to the show, here's something fun today explained is going to South by Southwest in Austin This year, I'm interviewing Charlemagne, the God host of the Breakfast Club.

Atlassian (13m 13s):
We're gonna talk about President Biden's problem with black voters. Polls, also vibes and EC data suggest that black men are growing more interested in Donald Trump this election season. What's going on? I'm hosting a special live show on March 10th on the official Vox Media podcast stage at South by Southwest, sponsored by Atlassian. The stage is also gonna host live episodes of Stay Tuned with Preet on with Kara Swisher. Where should we begin with? Aire Perel, Brene Brown will be there. What? And other shows from the Vox Media Podcast Network. If you can't make it to Austin, I completely understand. You can hear my interview in your podcast feed on Monday, March 11th. Two Radio, Hosts, Charlamagne, and Noel. For the price of one, it's gonna be great. Visit Vox media.com/live to learn more. That's Vox media.com/lot.

12 (14m 2s):
Find ourselves in the magic and the moments of pure Michigan.

1 (14m 8s):
Today. Explain is back. We've been talking about Michigan politics, and when you wanna talk about Michigan politics, you wanna talk to Bill,

13 (14m 15s):
Bill Ballinger, publisher of the Ballinger report.com. It is a weekly blog and a little extra on Michigan politics, not national politics, although we allude to things that are going on nationally. It's basically kind of a bible of Michigan politics and government bill's

1 (14m 37s):
Been at it a long, long time.

13 (14m 39s):
Before that, I published a hard copy subscription by snail mail publication for 27 years called Inside Michigan Politics. That's kind of what I'm best known for, but I sold that back in 2013. And since then I've concentrated on this and then a podcast. I had radio talk show. I had, I do a lot of public speaking around the state to various trade groups, associations, political action committees, unions, banks, you name it.

1 (15m 17s):
We asked him to further explain the uncommitted vote in Michigan on this their primary day.

13 (15m 22s):
Let's put it this way, it could be embarrassing for the President if there is a huge uncommitted vote in Michigan, even though he is almost certain to win by a handsome margin over uncommitted, maybe the uncommitted vote will be unexpectedly large.

1 (15m 43s):
Let's dial it back to this word you used uncommitted. What is going on with that? With that simple sounding word?

13 (15m 50s):
Yeah, it sounds very innocuous, but it is not innocuous. In fact, there is an effort by Congresswoman Rashida Taleb from Detroit, who is the only Palestinian American in the US House of Representatives to have voters vote uncommitted rather than for Joe Biden. And she's doing that because she's protesting the President's policy on what's happening in Gaza.

1 (16m 25s):
Has Uncommitted been around on the Michigan ballot for some time now? Or did Rashida Tali put it on there for Joe Biden?

13 (16m 32s):
No, it was on in 2008. It's been around for a long time. I mean, I myself have voted uncommitted in presidential primaries. So in, in 2008, the Hillary Clinton was the only campaign running in Michigan. Barack Obama did not even run in Michigan himself. He said, I'm not even gonna compete in Michigan. But in the last few weeks before the primary, in 2008, which was very early, the Obama campaign mounted a huge effort with all the National Obama campaign machinery behind it to get people in Michigan to vote uncommitted rather than vote for Hillary Clinton.

13 (17m 24s):
And amazingly, he got almost 40% of the vote uncommitted in 2008, got almost 40% of the vote. And everybody in the Democratic party knew if it you were voting uncommitted, you were really surreptitiously voting for Barack Obama when the dust cleared later in the spring and the Democratic National Committee sorted out this mess in Michigan, she barely got more than he did, even though he never ran as a candidate in Michigan. And it helped him get the nomination for president.

1 (18m 10s):
Of course, the next time Hillary Clinton is up for election in Michigan, Trump won the state in 2016, I think 47.5 to Hillary Clinton's 47.27. And then in 2020, Joe Biden takes the state 50.62 to Trump's 47.84. So the outcome in Michigan this year will be pretty pivotal to either party, to either candidate. Do we know how much success Rashida Taleb is having here with voters in the state?

13 (18m 48s):
We don't know Right now how much success she's having. you know, if the Biden administration, let's say, as they've started to do, show more support for the idea of a cease fire in Gaza and getting Netanyahu and Israel to back off, you know, that could take some air out of the balloon to get people to vote uncommitted. They could say, well, hey, we're getting what we want anyway. We kind of threatened the president with uncommitted. Now, maybe the Arab American community has sent out the word, Hey, you know, the president is backing away from his pro-Israel stance.

13 (19m 29s):
And so, you know, maybe we don't need to embarrass him by getting out and voting uncommitted. We don't know if that's happened. 'cause here we are today, election day, and the results are gonna be coming in tonight and tomorrow, and we're just gonna have to wait and find out what happened. Remember, there's early voting in Michigan. There's absentee voting that's gotten much bigger as a percentage of the total vote in the last few years than it ever was before. So election day turnout is a much smaller percentage, although it's still the largest percentage of all the people voting. Hmm. Than it used to be.

13 (20m 10s):
Well,

1 (20m 10s):
You know, obviously we're talking about Michigan here because there's a significant Arab American vote in Michigan. The Arab American Institute, which is an advocacy group, says that since the start of the Israel Hamas conflict, Arab American support for Joe Biden has dropped from like 59% in 2020 to something like 17%. Now, have you seen that shift in Michigan? Do you have a sense of how the, the vote has maybe shifted?

13 (20m 35s):
There's no question that's probably true, and it is almost unprecedented that one particular ethnic group or racial group would see support dropped so dramatically leading up to a presidential primary. I never recall this ever happening in Michigan. So it is significant. But let's take the Arab American population in context. So the question is, how important, if you got every Arab American and Dearborn, every single one to vote uncommitted, how much of an impact on the total vote is that really gonna be in a state like Michigan with 10 million people?

13 (21m 16s):
And you really have very few Arab Americans throughout Michigan. Keep that in mind.

1 (21m 22s):
Do you think other Michiganders are, are, are maybe likely to join Arab Americans who are refusing to vote for Biden?

13 (21m 29s):
Oh, I think it's possible. There are people outside the Arab American community who object to what's going on in a Gaza Right now and don't like what Netanyahu and Israel is doing. Yes, but they're not that many and they're not that many who are so motivated in their anger against Biden that they would vote uncommitted in a Democratic primary. So again, I just think the impact of Taleb's effort is gonna be less than she hopes for.

1 (22m 2s):
President Biden paid a visit to Michigan earlier this month and has dispatched, you know, some of his top aides to visit as well, yet recent polls show him behind Donald Trump in including one that has him trailing, you know, 45 to 41 with something like 14% undecided. It still feels like there's a race here, but how much do you attribute him being down to this Muslim American organizing effort against him?

13 (22m 33s):
Not that much in my opinion, but his diminution of support in the Arab American community kind of parallels the decline in his support from Democrats generally, particularly young Democrats in Michigan and nationally for that matter. But I don't think that makes the difference between victory and defeat for Biden Right now. But look, if Michigan's vote is as close as you just mentioned in 2016, Trump beat Hillary Clinton by, you know, 10,000 votes statewide in a state of 10 million people.

13 (23m 18s):
And it was close also as a percentage in 2020 when Biden won over Trump. If it gets down to something as close as the election in 2016, especially maybe the loss of support in the Arab American community could spell the difference between victory and defeat for Biden. No wonder he is worried.

1 (23m 49s):
Bill Ballinger Michigander the ballinger report.com last night on, lemme just check my notes here. Late night with Seth Myers, the president of the United States announced that there might be a ceasefire in Gaza as soon as Monday sounds like Hamas would have to agree to return all the remaining hostages for a six week pause in fighting for Ramadan. The Biden administration's been pushing hard for a deal, And. We'll, of course, be curious to see how that might change people's views of this war. When they go to vote this November, we'll let you know if we see something big. Our program today was produced by Halima Shaw, edited by Miranda Kennedy fact-checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Patrick Boyd.

1 (24m 31s):
There are many more individuals who make the show. They are in no particular order. Amanda Luellen Miles, Bryan Victoria Chamberlain, Jesse Alejandro Karell, Abhai Artsy, Haddi mdi, and Rob Byers, Matthew Collette and Amina Aldi edit the show most days. Noel King Hosts the show about half the time. And, we use music by breakmaster cylinder sometimes. Before we go, a quick request, we're moving on from Michigan and want to talk to listeners in and around Nashville. As y'all know, the cost of housing has been surging and many people feel that buying a house is out of reach. Research suggests that more people are choosing to move back in with mom and dad or just mom or just dad.

1 (25m 18s):
Are you one of the people cohabitating with your parents or have your kids moved back in with you? If so, how is it going? We want to hear about it. Call us at (202) 643-0314 and be sure to leave a callback number because we want to talk today. Explained is distributed by WNYC. The show is a part of Vox, which is totally free. Thanks in part to contributions from our listeners. Join us at Vox dot com. Give if you can. Thank you.