0 (1s):
In Jackson, Mississippi, here's the past month summed up.

1 (4s):
It's like playing Russian real LA that you don't know if you're gonna wake up with water. You don't know if you got water, you don't know what condition the water is

0 (12s):
In. Now in response to the chaos, the city's website has been updating residents yesterday. The most recent update, the water pressure is back, but the tap water is still not safe to drink unless it is boiled first.

2 (26s):
It's a horrible situation in the entire city of Jackson. You know, just not just one individual. And I blame, I blame the, the city council, the governor and the mayor, because they're all in confusion and no one seemed to know how to solve the problem

0 (43s):
Coming up on today explained how Jackson Mississippi became ground zero for today anyway, of our national infrastructure crisis.

4 (59s):
Hi, I'm Kara Swisher for I've covered Silicon valley, Washington and Hollywood making sense of those worlds by talking directly to the people who shaped them. Elon Musk, Barack Obama, Tony Fauci, Kim Kardashian. I've had the pleasure of grilling them all. Now I'm launching a new show called the Joe Rogan experience with Kara Swisher. Just kidding. It's actually called on with Kara Swisher. And let me tell you, it is on no holds barred on the tough questions or on my opinions on with Kara Swisher launches September 26th from New York magazine and the Vox media podcast network. Just look for on with Kara Swisher in your podcast app and hit follow or subscribe

0 (1m 46s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king, Kobe Vance reporter with Mississippi public broadcasting. Let's go back to the beginning. How did this all start

5 (1m 55s):
Back? About two weeks ago, we saw a lot of rain come through the Southeastern United States and here in Mississippi, a lot of that flooded into the Pearl river. Upstream.

6 (2m 8s):
The governor of Mississippi is now declaring a state of emergency after days of heavy rainfall in the central part of the state,

5 (2m 15s):
The Jackson area saw a lot of flooding. And when that flooding came a lot of extra chemicals in the water, into Jackson's water plant, that meant they had to also raise the amount of treatment processes they were doing on those highly contaminated waters. The city of Jackson has a very limited staff. They are been understaffed at this water treatment plant for years and years now. Oh, the

7 (2m 38s):
EPA has made it clear that a staffing shortage is amplifying. The city of Jackson's continued water

5 (2m 44s):
Issues and their equipment is exceptionally outdated. And so because of those factors, they just couldn't meet the demands of taking in water, processing it, and then putting it out into the system to maintain that pressure. So they had to decrease their water production in the short term, which couldn't keep up with the demand that Jackson residents needed. And when that happened, we saw water pressure across the city drop as the storage tanks that are used, began to drain at

8 (3m 16s):
Her fonder home water pressure is still too low to take a shower or wash clothes, but hall says she tried to fill up her tub to have water, to flush her toilet and wash dishes with

5 (3m 25s):
If a city's water pressure is not adequate. The water sits in the pipes at a lower rate, and it can't flow as fast. You might have heard the phrase Moss can't grow on a rolling stone. Well, it kind of applies to whenever water can't flow quickly enough to get to these storage tanks, or it says stagnant in some pipes, then bacteria has a chance to produce faster and faster. And when that happens, it can be dangerous for residents to drink the water. And the city of Jackson has been plagued by that for years,

9 (3m 55s):
It came out of the faucet and it was thick and it was a different color. I couldn't even give it to my

5 (4m 0s):
Dog. And that's something that Jacksonians have just come to live with. It's just that in this case, we've seen a bigger problem, which is they don't have water pressure at all.

0 (4m 14s):
Why has this been going on for so long? This is a capital city.

5 (4m 18s):
Jackson obviously has a history of racism. So that leads into something called white flight. When a lot of African Americans moved into the city of Jackson, we began to see a lot of white people that held a majority of the capital. They left the city

10 (4m 34s):
Federally mandated school desegregation had prompted waves of white residents to abandon the city between 1970 and 1990. Jackson went from being 60% white to being nearly 60% black.

5 (4m 47s):
They didn't move far away. These people are just on the very edge of the county lines. So these people can still benefit from having the things that are in Jackson, but they don't live there themselves. And their personal interest in the city has waned over time. Many, look at the city as a stain on the state, rather than something that they're proud of as a state capital. And so over a period of time, the city of Jackson lost their tax base. When that happens, they can't keep doing the same infrastructure updates that they had been doing in the past. So over a period of decades, the city has failed to be able to produce adequate maintenance on their systems.

5 (5m 31s):
They haven't been able to replace pipes in their grounds across the city. And so these infrastructure failings are something that have compounded over years and years

0 (5m 41s):
Who has been most directly affected by

5 (5m 44s):
This. This is something that is heavily affecting those who live in south and west Jackson. Those residents live miles away from the water treatment plants. And so there is so much distance that has to be covered. They are almost always under a boil water notice. And oftentimes it's easier to count the weeks that they're not on a boil notice than they are

11 (6m 7s):
Somewhere. Somebody has dropped the ball. And, and so the city council or the mayor, or whoever the governor, or whatever needs to get together and get this done,

5 (6m 17s):
The demographics of Jackson is 80% black. And a lot of Jackson residents are also low income. And with that, it becomes a system that is increasingly putting a large tax burden on not just African Americans, but people who have very low incomes and live far below the poverty rate.

0 (6m 35s):
The city knows it's in the middle of a crisis. The state knows it's in the middle of the crisis. Are those two entities who presumably should have some of the same goals in mind? Are they working together at this point? How are they responding?

5 (6m 48s):
It has become a tricky situation to know how they're working together or not. During the first full week of the crisis, the governor and the mayor came together in a press conference talking about how they wanted unity in this going forward to make sure that they were focusing on helping Jackson residents. First,

12 (7m 4s):
There will be plenty of time in the future to play the blame game and, and y'all can do all of that. You wanna do, you can do it in real time if you want to, but I ain't got time

5 (7m 12s):
For it. But then we saw the governor come forward and immediately start blaming city administration for not maintaining the city's water plant adequately. And then on the city side, they're saying that they have been putting forward plans constantly for the past several years, which they should never get the funding they need.

13 (7m 32s):
I've been saying that it's not a matter of if our system would fail, but when our system would fail,

0 (7m 38s):
Is the city providing people with water or with other types of aid,

5 (7m 42s):
The city has been providing people with water for a while. Now it's something that's, they've been doing under an EPA order at fire stations across the area. And now the state has also stepped in to help with this issue from our Mississippi emergency management agency and our state national guard, as well as partners at for instance, our department of agriculture and commerce. And so with all of these entities coming together, they have been able to drastically step up water distribution efforts. I think the governor mentioned the other day, it was surpassing 5 million bottles of water passed out within a week. And so with all of that, people are getting the water they need right now. But this is something that has been an issue for so long that people have just gotten used to buying their own water in grocery stores.

5 (8m 26s):
Some people spend maybe $25 a week if they live alone, but I've heard families spend maybe like a hundred dollars per week, just on water for their children. People

14 (8m 36s):
Are fed up. I honestly don't even wanna bathe my baby in Jackson's water.

11 (8m 40s):
It's sad. And I can't even afford to move outta Jackson. So I have to stay here and deal

0 (8m 44s):
With this. If I had been living like this for years, and I knew that it was in part because the state wouldn't help me, I'd be furious. Have you talked to anybody? Who's angry, agree.

5 (8m 58s):
People are pissed. I think it's fair to say this is something that they have to a degree come to live with, come to learn how to live with, but they are not happy about it. Some people are questioning. If they wanna pay their water bills, why would you wanna pay your water bill? If you can't drink the water and sometimes you don't have water coming outta your taps. It becomes a very regressive cycle. And so people are just really heavily frustrated. They are appreciative of all the work that's being done to try to get the water pressure back online and then get that drinkable. Again. They're appreciative of the state stepping in and the federal government at this point. And they're appreciative of the national conversation.

5 (9m 39s):
That's ongoing now about Jackson, but it's just a matter of time until this happens again, unless something drastic happens. And a lot of the systems are updated. More workers are added in Jackson and residents are insured that they're gonna have water in their homes for a longer period of time.

0 (10m 0s):
Where do things stand today with the water?

5 (10m 4s):
Currently residents in Jackson do have water pressure. It is tentative because the systems are still very fragile, but they do have water. They cannot drink it under the guidance of the department of health in Mississippi, they were lowering their standards of water output. So they could just meet the pressure demands of the city. Now they are currently working towards making sure that water is drinkable. And so currently residents are advised to not drink the water, not even brush their teeth with the water, although they can technically boil it. If they need water to drink in their homes,

15 (10m 49s):
The Iowa lottery was out there saying on a regular basis, Hey folks, check your ticket. Somebody's got 16 million bucks and it was sort of this mystery. Why hasn't anyone come forward?

8 (10m 60s):
I'm Phoebe judge host of the podcast, criminal, true stories about people who've done wrong. Been wronged or gotten caught somewhere in the middle, told by people who know them best like a man who successfully figured out how to negotiate with his father's kidnappers. After some trial and error,

16 (11m 17s):
They were just like, for that price, we won't even tell you where he's buried.

8 (11m 20s):
And a 12 year old who solved a family mystery.

0 (11m 23s):
There were three little fingerprints. And I remember in junior da camp, I was like, oh, fingerprints. This is definitely some evidence. Then we can find whoever broke into my grandmother's house,

8 (11m 34s):
Discover the unexpected side of true crime.

17 (11m 36s):
There were no security alarms whatsoever. The file cabinets were not even locked. So that gave us enough information to plan the actual break in,

8 (11m 46s):
Listen to criminal. Now, wherever you get your podcasts,

0 (11m 53s):
Brain fog, anxiety, depression, according to social media, you can cure all of them by eating yogurt,

18 (12m 0s):
Unsurprisingly, social media. Isn't exactly right. But there is some really exciting new science showing that what you eat can affect your mental health that what's going on in your gut literally changes your brain chemistry.

0 (12m 12s):
And that's exactly what we're getting to the bottom of on this week's episode of gastropod, the podcast that looks at food through the lens of science and history, I'm Nicola TWI,

18 (12m 21s):
And I'm Cynthia Greyber. And this episode, we go deep to sort out the science from the social media hype. It's a story that involves some very sad mice and a cutting edge, us military experiment, but it's also news. We can all use. What

0 (12m 34s):
Should you be eating to combat anxiety, depression, and more follow gastropod and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

13 (12m 44s):
I have described Jackson as the poster child of the infrastructure challenges that we see in this country

0 (12m 51s):
It's today explained Darren Olson is a water resources engineer based in Illinois. He is also a member of the American society of civil engineers, where he vice chairs, a committee that grades us infrastructure like a report card. Now the last one was released in 2021 out of 17 categories. The us got 11 DS, four CS, two BS, all of that adds up to 17. So no, A's our national average.

19 (13m 21s):
We got an overall grade of C, not something that you would wanna bring home to, to your parents, or you'd want your child to bring home to you.

0 (13m 29s):
Can I ask what went through your head when you started reading about the water crisis in Jackson, Mississippi?

19 (13m 35s):
Well it's while it's made frontline news these past few weeks, it's really not all that surprising. That's something like that can happen. You know, they're, they're dealing with a horrible crisis down in, in Jackson where, you know, nearly 150,000 people as of a few days ago, we're still without water. But you know, throughout the country, there is a water crisis. And even here in Illinois, we've got a community dicks, more that as of today is out of water as well. There, they have to get bottled water because they don't they're, they've had too many water main breaks and they, they aren't able to deliver water to their residents. So while it's making frontline news right now, it's really not all that surprising

0 (14m 18s):
Were the mechanics of what happened in Jackson immediately understandable to you. Was it something where you said, oh dear, this is very confusing or something where you said, oh dear this again, you

19 (14m 30s):
Know, a little combination of, of both. And I think that's what we're going to start seeing is that there is definitely a water infrastructure problem in the United States.

4 (14m 41s):
Thousands of New Jersey residents are stocking up on bottled water. After tests indicated water filters may not be protecting residents against elevated levels of lead.

20 (14m 51s):
W SSC tells us there have been 365 water main breaks in our area. This month alone,

21 (14m 58s):
An alarming new report says more than 900,000 Californians do not have access to clean drinking water more than 65% of the failing water systems are located in low income communities. Mostly in the central valley,

19 (15m 12s):
We have aging pipes and we have aging treatment plants that are beyond their, their useful life. You know, here in Chicago, we for a while were replacing water mains that were literally made of wood.

22 (15m 27s):
We are replacing water mains that were installed when president Roosevelt was in office that's Theodore Roosevelt,

19 (15m 33s):
They were over a hundred years old and way beyond their useful life

22 (15m 39s):
Served served us well. Those, those trees did.

19 (15m 42s):
That's one part of, of the problem. And, and that's the part of the problem. I think we, we understand a little bit more, but the part that's a little bit new is this climate change aspect to it. And so we've got this kind of a double whammy situation where we have aging water infrastructure that is now up against more severe storms, more drastic droughts. So that is the new part that is, I think, is compounding the, the existing infrastructure crisis that we have.

0 (16m 12s):
Why does climate change and the flooding that accompanies it? Why does that matter? A pipe is meant to carry water. Why does it matter if it's carrying more water or less water?

19 (16m 23s):
I always relate water to something that's more, even more understandable to people which is, is traffic, right? And so you can envision, you know, if you know, roads that were built 50, 60, even a hundred years ago, they were meant to carry a certain type of vehicle and a certain amount of vehicles. Those roads need to get increased. And in both in, in lanes and in length, when we start talking about how many people are, are driving the United States right now, water is a similar situation. And with the roads, you know, if you don't make them wider with more lanes, you obviously have horrific traffic issues with waters. It's the same thing.

19 (17m 3s):
It's, it's a, the pipes that were built a hundred years ago and installed a hundred years ago, they were meant for a certain type of climate that we were seeing then. And, and we're, you know, based on the standards of that time, both of those have changed dramatically. The pipes that we put in the ground 50 years ago are simply not meant to handle what we're experiencing now and not to mention the fact that they all have a lifespan, just like every piece of infrastructure has a certain lifespan to it. And we are now exceeding the lifespan of much of the water infrastructure that is underground,

0 (17m 42s):
How much water infrastructure is there in the

19 (17m 44s):
Us. So in, in the United States, they estimate there that there's about 2.2 million miles of water main. It is generally when you start talking about, you know, how much of this you can replace, you know, in a given year, you know, in 2020, it it's estimated that about 12,000 miles of pipe were replaced. So that's less than 1% of the total amount of pipe that's in the ground that was able to be replaced in, in 2020. So you think about how many years it's going to take for us to upgrade all of this water infrastructure. It's, it's really significant.

0 (18m 24s):
Why are we not handling it now? Is it that the money doesn't exist?

19 (18m 27s):
Yes. You know, it, it is really, it's expensive to replace this infrastructure. And, you know, this water infrastructure is a little bit different than, than roads and bridges in that, you know, way back when, when this water infrastructure was put in place, much of it was federally funded back in the, you know, sixties, seventies with a clean water act. There was a huge federal boost of money that was put in to try to achieve the goals of the clean water act. Since then, the funding responsibility has shifted dramatically so that it has shifted from the federal side to really the local side.

19 (19m 10s):
And, you know, when you talk about cities like Jackson, that water infrastructure that's in place, that is their responsibility to fix. And, and the funding generally has to come from, from the municipality and they can certainly get loans. And there's ways to try to finance that, but to replace the, that infrastructure that was originally put in it is it's on them and it's under roads. And you can imagine, you know, how expensive it is to, to tear up, you know, the service of the road, dig down, you know, five, six, sometimes 10 feet down, pull out this, you know, large pipe out of the ground. That's in deteriorating condition, put a new one back in, put all that material back, put those other utilities back and then repave the road when you explain it like that.

19 (19m 59s):
I mean, just to do it for a block, seems exhausting and, and think about doing it for, you know, 2.2 million miles of pipe.

13 (20m 5s):
And so this is something that, that when the state joined me and shared that they would be bringing in resources, bringing in a team to support us. We welcome that with open arms, because we've been saying that we needed the support. We've been saying that we need resources.

0 (20m 21s):
So Darren, all of this comes down to what,

19 (20m 25s):
What it comes down to is a lack of prioritization and a lack of funding to keep up this infrastructure.

13 (20m 38s):
This is due to decades, decades, and decades of possibly 30 years or more of deferred maintenance, a lack of capital improvements made to the system, a lack of a, a human capital, a workforce plan that, that accounted for the challenges that our water treatment facility suffers from.

19 (20m 57s):
This infrastructure is very valuable. And for so many years, we have not prioritized maintaining those to the point now where, you know, we're looking at over the next 10 years needing 2.6 trillion to get us from where we're at now, which is a C as an overall grade for infrastructure up to a B

0 (21m 22s):
Are we as a nation taking money away from infrastructure, from roads and bridges and aviation and water and diverting it toward other stuff?

19 (21m 32s):
Well, certainly there's a, a fixed tool of resources and there are certainly many, many needs. I think what we're trying to do is, and one of the things that that has occurred recently with the infrastructure investment in jobs act is to try to let our elected officials know, and they got the message and, you know, they passed at 1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure that actually brought in, you know, 550 billion of new spending.

23 (22m 3s):
It's a once in a generation investment in America, unlike anything we've seen or done since we built the interstate highway system and the space race decades ago,

19 (22m 15s):
It's not going to solve our infrastructure problem. And it's a fraction of what we need, but it is really a move in the right direction, but

0 (22m 25s):
It's a fraction of what we need.

19 (22m 27s):
It is a fraction of what we need. That's how big that infrastructure gap is. It, that is a fraction of what we need. And we have an opportunity, you know, whether it's the, the engineers or our elected officials, we can start to plan better for things like climate change and to make sure that whether it's our electric grid or our water mains or our levies, or our ports, that they are built more resilient. And finally, we're, we can use things like technology to track these 2.2 million miles of water main, where we're able to start to understand where our weak points are, you know, how those weak points intersect with communities that may be underserved, so are able to prioritize from both an infrastructure perspective, but also for, you know, the need of, of the population, where to invest our dollars first and where we're gonna get the highest return on, on that investment.

0 (23m 33s):
What are the consequences for this country? If we keep on with the mediocre slash disastrous grades, do you, do you have nightmares about flooding or do you envision flooding being like a, like a minor consequence of where we stand right now?

19 (23m 49s):
Well, I'm a water resources engineer. So I have nightmares about flooding all the time, but you know what the, that is one part of the, of the consequence. You know, we will see more things like Jackson, Mississippi, we're gonna see more headlines, you know, out west with, you know, whole of towns or states running out of water, but there's also the economic side of it as well. Every year, this is costing the American households over $3,000 in, in hidden costs for our poor infrastructure, whether that is having to fix tires, because the roads are in such poor condition that you blew a tire having to buy bottled water.

19 (24m 39s):
Maybe it's your, the electric grid went down. And so your refrigerator shut down and you have to, you know, buy new food. These are real costs for the American people, and it's also costing businesses as well. And we don't wanna have to wait for a, a bridge collapse or a whole city needing to boil its water for the focus of, you know, our elected officials to be on maintaining our infrastructure and investing in our infrastructure. And too many times, especially with the water system, whether it's a sanitary pipe or a, a drinking water pipe, it's, it's outta sight and outta mind for 99% of our population it's then becomes difficult to, to try to convince people that, that they need to invest in that when they're, when they're not seeing it every day

0 (25m 40s):
Today's show was produced by Julian Weinberger and Amanda Lou Ellen, with assists from Victoria Chamberlain and Tori Dominguez. It was edited by Matthew. It was fact checked by Serena Solis and it was engineered by Paul Robert mosey. It's today explained I'm Noel king.