1 (5s):
Basketball is back LeBron James lost his first game of the season to Toronto's adopted son Kawhi Leonard, but it doesn't matter. He's still making something like ninety two million dollars this season. Some of that money is his salary from the LA Lakers, but most of it is for his likeness His Image and ads in video games the dream of Space Jam 2 that he's making a reality where the

2 (31s):
moms. That

1 (32s):
dream is why Lebron James skipped playing college ball and went straight to the NBA and he talked about that decision on his HBO series the shock recently

2 (43s):
part of the reason why I went to the NBA this get my mom out of the situation that she was in I couldn't have done that if I would have stepped on a college campus. I mean here's the fame but then there's no compensation. It's so crazy. Like people are like, oh you must be so rich and like you must not know the n-c-double-a right graduated in 2004. I mean we're talking about Ten Years Later, they're still making money off

1 (1m 4s):
of us. The shop is normally a conversation between athletes musicians and actors. But in this episode A different kind of guests showed up the gigs up, California governor, Gavin Newsom billions and billions of dollars goes to these universities goes to these colleges

2 (1m 18s):
billion-plus Revenue to the NC to a and the actual product the folks are putting everything on the line are getting

1 (1m 24s):
nothing new some wasn't just there to bask in the shadow of LeBron James up when you put pen to paper right now. What's this?

2 (1m 31s):
Change and what's it going to

1 (1m 32s):
do? It's going to change college sports for the better by having now the interest finally of the athletes on par with the interest of the institutions.

2 (1m 43s):
Now, we're rebalancing that power Arrangement. Well, let's do it because all you're ready. Let's do it. All right. That's good. Newsom

1 (1m 59s):
sat next to LeBron and signed the fair pay to play act into law and when it goes into effect in 2023 California's College athletes will be able to do a whole bunch of things. They never could before depending on who you talk to. This is either the biggest fundamental change to College athletics and decades or a relatively minor administrative, you know alteration Matt Brown SB Nation, California Senate Bill 206 Allows for student-athletes in California all of the NCAA member institutions from major schools in the Pac-12 like your Stanford's or UCLA's too much smaller schools.

1 (2m 40s):
Your Fresno State's or your Pacific's it allows students to be able to monetize their likeness without penalty from the school or the NCAA. So, theoretically if now with this law has been passed if you're a basketball player at Pacific and a car dealership and Stockton wants to use your image in a in a car dealership add the NCAA can't stop you and NCAA current bylaws say you can't do that or you'll lose your amateurism status. So there's going to be a conflict now between California state law and NCAA bylaws is California in a league of its own here. It was until after the bill was passed and then we've already seen a pretty substantial copycat effect across the country. We have York and Florida, South Carolina, Illinois Law all over the country.

1 (3m 25s):
A lot of lawmakers are looking at past. Similar laws in part because they don't want their students to be out of recruiting disadvantage and I think in part because if California's done it that that shows that there's an appetite for passing this similar kind of law so already within just a week or so, you know close to a third of the US population is covered by a state. That's at least looking at passing similar legislation and more are likely to come. How's the NCAA navigating? This sort of wave of laws that are saying that we're going to change how we compensate College athletes across the country not well, if you ask a senior NCAA administrator, or maybe you have lettuce director or University president that's been there for a long time.

1 (4m 5s):
A lot of them are treating this law like the opening of the seventh seal of the Apocalypse.

2 (4m 15s):
The NCAA has sent a letter to the governor of California and the letter the NCAA calls the fair pay to play act harmful and unconstitutional adding that it would quote upend the balance of national. Petition in college sports

1 (4m 30s):
and the head of the NCAA is saying there's no meaningful distinction between a third-party paying a player and University paying a player and then you're going to you're just going to have regular free agency and it's going to be this commercialism run amok kind of thing. And schools really don't want that because this current system gives them a lot of power to control the money that comes in and 11. It requires donors who are interested in really good athletes going to their Alma maters to give the money to the school rather than to the players directly which could theoretically happen if likeness rights become liberalized all over the country, but like for the time being you've got this conflict between the California law and the NCAA rules and other states.

1 (5m 11s):
I imagine have similar conflicts how they going to deal with that in just the short term. Yeah, that's going to be the interesting question here because the NCAA the message has been pretty Universal. They don't want to have 50 different states with 50 different regulations. So what we're going to have is either a federal law that supersedes all these state laws and we have two different Republicans right now who are in the process of advancing legislation to do just that or the NCAA would try to strike up some sort of compromise with either California or other lawmakers to have some kind of national policy one. That would probably be be a more limited likeness rights Marketplace than what California is proposing. So is California sort of trying to take the same strategy with college athlete compensation as it did with say, you know, emission standards by trying to sort of lead the pack and say Here's a different set of rules.

1 (6m 2s):
And now the federal government will have to catch up. Is that what's going on here? Yeah. I think that's a really great way of putting it, you know, California is so big it has some of the largest athletic brands it produces more high-level basketball and football players and almost anywhere Also in the country it has the clout and the scale to be able to do something like this, you know, if the first state to propose this sort of legislation was Delaware with just to you know, relatively low importance athletic programs. Sorry, Joe Biden.

2 (6m 28s):
Congratulations, man. You beat the Tar Heels. That's a hell of a congratulations. I really mean it really is really cool.

1 (6m 38s):
So, you know if the first state was Delaware the NCAA might have been able to muscle them out, but you can't really do that to you. UCLA and USC and Stanford and Cal and a slew of other high-performing mid-majors. Hmm. So if California has been holding this card for a while. Why is it playing it now? I think we're seeing a more politically activated group of student athletes, you know people who are more aware of this enormous gap between the amount of money that these athletic departments are making you starving, but they're making billions. You got your jersey on if you want to take your jersey and sell it to somebody you can Trouble for that. It has your name on it and your sweat it's crazy to me what athletes are doing is work.

1 (7m 22s):
It's tremendous work, but it is work. And I don't know if you understand it until you go through it like waking up at six am going to wait then going from there basically minimal meals going to class and from class to practice practice four to five hours a day, then after that you have homework and more class and they go to sleep. And then rinse

2 (7m 38s):
repeat. Well, I can tell you from experience. I had negative 40 bucks in my account. And usually my account was in the negative more times than it was in a Positive you got to make decisions on whether you get gas for your car or whether you get to meal for today. You know what you got one of the two choices. I

1 (7m 51s):
mean, we have Michigan and Ohio State and Texas near the top here bringing in over 200 million dollars a year for their athletic departments and enormous time burden and risk for a football player. You know, you might only have a few years to be able to earn a living. Your coach is making six million dollars your strength coach might be making a half million dollars. There are seven other assistants who are making a half million dollars and you To Chick-fil-A. I think that that Gap has become so powerful than others even more movements to try and rectify that in some way. So how are college athletes feeling right now seeing all this change all at once as you would expect this some real excitement, I think from people who are currently playing college football or basketball a lot of these kids understand that they're probably not going to be able to cut a six-figure sneaker deal or create a car dealership ad while they're in school, especially if they're at a smaller program, but almost everybody has some level of likeness rights, even if it's relatively small if you're a college softball player.

1 (8m 50s):
Somebody would probably pay you to go to a softball camp and teach high school kids how to play softball the fact that you are structurally required to kind of live in poverty is unfair and the idea that there might be a legislative remedy to that excites a lot of kids, even if they realize it might not come right away. Matt Brown is the author of what if a closer look College football's great questions. We spoke about paying college athletes, but these athletes want to get paid once they're done playing to I'm Sean Rama's for him. That's in a minute on today. Explain.

1 (9m 42s):
Your call has been forwarded to an automatic voice message system John the war is not available at the tone. Please record your message when you have finished recording you may hang up or press 1 for more options page on Dolores Sean Rama's Forum. I know that you are the executive producer of the Paris review podcast. I know that this is your baby and in the middle of our show today we are. To promote the Paris review podcast. So I was just calling you to figure out what exactly you want me to tell the people about your show. Is it just a bunch of people telling you how paris's is it? A critical assessment of Paris, or is it more like an acclaimed podcast from the legendary literary journal the Paris review that is coming back for its second season a brand new audio Odyssey in which each episode Blends intimate performance.

1 (10m 38s):
Has of Paris review fiction poetry and also interviews with archival recordings and reenactments to create this totally immersive listening experience? I don't know if the season will feature Jason Alexander reading Philip Roth or or Molly Ringwald reading Rising fiction star Mary Terrier or or Jenny slate channeling and Sexton or archival audio from Toni Morrison and many other exciting literary voices, but I certainly Hope that it does. I really hope that that you can listen to season two of The Paris review right now and Stitcher Apple podcasts or or your favorite podcast app.

1 (11m 18s):
I bet you can if you are satisfied with your message, press 1 to listen to your message, press 2 to erase to send your message with normal delivery, press one to send your message with urgent delivery, press 2. To thank you. Your message has been sent. Goodbye.

2 (11m 37s):
Bye.

1 (11m 43s):
The debate over paying college athletes in America has been around almost as long as College athletics in America, but the fight to change the pay grade has really ramped up in the past 30 years or so.

2 (11m 56s):
I had moved on and they were still making money off of my

1 (12m 0s):
likeness Ed O'Bannon was the star of the 1995 UCLA basketball team and he was named most outstanding player. In the final four that year but years after leaving UCLA, he lost his

2 (12m 14s):
likeness. I was at a friend's house as normal day regular day, you know, I remember being out in the front yard playing catch with one of his sons and then you know in conversation he says, hey we were playing, you know this video game last night man and you were on it, you know, you want to check it out. I was like, you know, hell, yeah. Let's see

1 (12m 34s):
it. When was this? When did this happen? This was a no 8 so you played college? Basketball in the in the mid 90s, right? Yes, and then in 2008 you're hanging out a friend's house and he's like, hey, I'll just played a video game that you were hungry. Yep. What was your reaction? That's that's crazy

2 (12m 50s):
man. I was excited. You know, I wanted to see it. I thought that that would be cool. I mean, I grew up in the age where video games were just coming out. You know, my best friend down the street had Atari my brother and I had in television. We always play Pac-Man and Donkey Kong. Do you know to be on a video game was a dream come true?

1 (13m 22s):
So did you go in and sit down and

2 (13m 24s):
play? You know, I didn't play I did sit down and had an adult beverage and we just sat there and watched him, you know, watch this kid play this video game.

1 (13m 35s):
What's the drink you drink when you're sitting down to watch some kid play

2 (13m 39s):
you on a video game are Jack and Coke get to know if that ever happens to be down there with the

1 (13m 44s):
poor. Absolutely. Sensational what did you look like in the game? You're like, oh my God. It's a mirror image was it kind of glitchy Graphics or

2 (13m 54s):
what? I was like, wow, you know, that's me, you know, I mean ball-headed he's left-handed, you know long arms skinny arms and he can shoot too. Yeah, that's me and you are happy about it. Oh, yeah. Absolutely. I was thrilled it was I thought it was really cool and then my friend kind of leans over, you know, kind of nudges me with his elbow and says, you know how much we paid. For this 60 bucks, you know how much you got and before I could answer he was like zero. When he said it I thought it was funny. But in the midst of that laughter a kind of stopped, you know, and I thought about it and I was like damn I didn't get anything held anything call me, you know to ask me, you know, my mind was racing.

2 (14m 42s):
I just couldn't I couldn't believe it. I was just like here I am in my mid-30s and they're still making money off of my you know off of my face. So I you know off of me. Did you have another Jack and Coke I needed one. - Missouri, I didn't I didn't get another one but I probably should have

1 (14m 59s):
so what happens next

2 (15m 1s):
a couple weeks later. I got a phone call from a close friend of mine and Mentor Sonny Vaccaro and he says I'm looking to sue the in situ a for the mistreatment of college athletes. I says, wow, mr. Vacarro couple weeks ago. I was at a friend's house and I told him that story and he was like, oh my goodness. He said you'd be perfect to be the lead. Plaintiff and all of

1 (15m 26s):
this it just so happens. Your Mentor is thinking about suing the NCAA and your their way with

2 (15m 32s):
glasses. Yeah. That was exactly how it

1 (15m 36s):
was. Why were they so excited? Why did they so desperately want to sue the NCAA

2 (15m 40s):
because they recognize this social injustice that sounds bigger. It is bigger. There are civil rights that are being violated here

1 (15m 50s):
now. So what have you been prevented from

2 (15m 52s):
doing? I did not work being on scholarship. It's a Stanzi to a rules but honestly, I'm not sure that I had enough time to work when it came to practice and workouts and classes. There would be no time to sleep. It was fun. It was a blast but at the same time it wasn't it wasn't all roses. A lot of times your classmates would say. Oh, I'm I'm hungry. Everything is closed. I have no money. So, you know you sit around and eat Doritos and fall asleep. You know, I would notice that there would be 10,000 people every night, you know at our basketball game, but you know when I would get home there would be nothing to eat.

2 (16m 36s):
I noticed those things but it's the system that's just the way that it is. I didn't, you know necessarily comprehend, you know, the amount of money I didn't I didn't comprehend even that I was playing for free, you know, it was a pride in the school and wearing the Jersey thing. I was young and all I wanted to do is play basketball for UCLA.

1 (17m 9s):
That lawsuit that Ed was a part of after he saw himself in a video game years after he wore the jersey ultimately he was part of a 60 million dollar settlement because thousands of players got paid at got 15,000. It's a lot less money than he might have gotten if he'd been in control of his likeness all along. So as he recently told CNN Ed is all about California's Fair pay to play act

2 (17m 34s):
California is in a really good position. They are changing. Game and from where we sit we're extremely excited about it.

1 (17m 43s):
This is today explained.