0 (1s):
Support for the program today comes from Assana. It's not a person. It's a collaboration tool designed to help teens manage their work and help turn last minute projects into actionable plans. You can visit a sauna.com and try a sauna for free. That is a S a N a.com to try a sauna for free today.

1 (41s):
Let's see what's on the radio.

2 (42s):
The workforce that a large share of white collar workers are simply never going to think of the office the way they did in 2019 ever again, as something that is optional, something that is part time, something that they do on a hybrid basis.

1 (59s):
Is it worth it? Let me work. It it's too early for this. I just gone to bed. Give it to him and tell him to S H O V E the J O B <inaudible> it's the future.

1 (1m 41s):
It's the future. It's the future of

0 (1m 47s):
It's. The future of work on today explained I'm Sean Ramez. From last week, we focused on white collar work the future of the office and how to make remote work more functional, maybe forever. This week. We're going to talk about a very different kind of work gig work. It's a phrase that was hardly even used a decade ago. Now, something like a third of American workers do gig work, a third modern gig work the stuff tied to apps on our phones and laptops has kind of reshaped our cities, our counties, our country, the world, and on the show today, we're going to ask about the growing pains of that revolution and try and figure out where gig work might be heading next. And we're going to start in New York city where delivery workers for apps like Uber or door dash are everywhere.

0 (2m 32s):
There are 65,000 delivery workers in New York. You can spot them on their e-bikes cruising at top speed, faster than pretty much anything else on the street. And this summer new York's delivery workers kind of figured out how much muscle they had and they flexed Josh Jezza wrote about it for the verge

3 (2m 52s):
Has existed for a long time in New York, but it used to be that delivery workers worked for a restaurant.

4 (3m 2s):
Hello, thanks for calling Mario's pizza.

3 (3m 5s):
And it would be a restaurant that kind of specialized in delivery. Canonically it's your pizza place, your Chinese restaurant.

5 (3m 11s):
That's something I don't want to go to that meeting on an empty stomach. You know, let's get some Chinese. You want to,

3 (3m 16s):
I gotta get some work done. And they employ a few delivery workers who they'll send out in the immediate vicinity to the neighborhood. And that was the way it was until the two thousands. And then especially the mid 2010s. What happened then is you got these apps like DoorDash caviar, Postmates

6 (3m 40s):
You company called seamless is transforming the food industry one clinic.

3 (3m 46s):
And they promise not just delivery online, like online ordering, which had existed for a bit, but delivery from anywhere,

7 (3m 53s):
The large beer liquor or wine order. Now in DC, there's an app for that drizzly and alcohol delivery app.

3 (4m 3s):
They had their own workforce, they had their gig workers. And so you could order something from a restaurant that didn't offer delivery or was miles away. And they would dispatch a worker to bring it to you.

8 (4m 16s):
All these companies are part of the new world where everything is at your fingertips,

3 (4m 21s):
Everywhere you go. And so this meant for customers. It meant unlimited choice. It was amazing for workers. It meant that they were no longer tethered to a restaurant. So they no longer had shelter. They also had to be plugged in all the time because they needed to get the works. They had to have a smartphone, they had to go longer distances. And so you end up with a situation where they're running to and fro long distances and they adapt in various ways. And one of those was they start using these high powered electric bikes, which really let them zoom around 30 miles an hour. You see this

0 (4m 59s):
Vehicle, that's

3 (4m 60s):
Basically a motorcycle for long periods of time and not get tired. That's where we are today. We have workers who are extremely online on extremely fast to vehicles racing around working for apps.

0 (5m 20s):
And beyond this changing how this kind of work looks, it fundamentally alters the economics of it, right? You could be zooming across town to deliver like some McDonald's French fries that cost like $2, right?

3 (5m 36s):
That's right. All these apps are subsidized with billions in venture capital money. So it doesn't have to make economic sense to deliver French fries, three miles away. So the workers end up with all these orders that are a restaurant never would have allowed you to make before, like a single order of fries or some chicken nuggets or one coffee or something like that. And for the workers, because they're getting paid per job. And because tips make up a large portion of it, it becomes a bit like gambling. You're working, you got an order. Maybe it's a dinner for a family of four and they tip well, or maybe it's an ice cream cone.

3 (6m 16s):
And even if the person tips 20%, that's like 20 cents. And so they're barely getting by if, if getting by at all and they have to work extremely long hours, most work, six days a week. A lot of them work 10, 12 hours a day just to be able to survive.

0 (6m 33s):
And on top of all of this, the pandemic comes along. How does that change? The nature of this work?

3 (6m 39s):
The pandemic changed things in a couple of ways. One, there was more work and the routes got longer as every restaurant switched to 100% delivery and was trying to stay afloat. A lot of them expanded their delivery radius is radio. So delivery workers were suddenly going five miles, six miles, just the incredible distances. A lot of them fell sick. You know, obviously COVID itself was, it was a threat, the few restaurants that sort of let them use their restroom before closed their doors. So suddenly that became a pressing issue and robberies, especially recently because they're riding around, you know, $2,000 vehicles, they've become a target for thieves who will often violently attack them for their bikes.

3 (7m 29s):
And at the same time that the job was getting worse. The city, the apps, everyone was calling them heroes and talking about how essential they were

9 (7m 39s):
To some of the unsung heroes of this pandemic, the delivery workers who have kept our lives running as we safely hunker down.

3 (7m 46s):
And I think the combination of those two things really galvanized the delivery workers to start bringing their working conditions into line with, with that rhetoric. How

0 (7m 57s):
Does that happen?

3 (7m 58s):
Well, let me take you to this bridge because I think it illustrates a lot of what was happening in the city over the summer,

0 (8m 6s):
Which bridge Manhattan, Brooklyn, Williamsburg, Queensborough,

3 (8m 10s):
It's called the Willis bridge and it connects Northern Manhattan to the Bronx. And it's the bridge that a lot of food delivery workers cross each night as they return home after finishing their dinner deliveries, I spent a lot of time at this bridge over the summer. And then in September, I went back with a producer for the show, we'll read, oh, wait, here it goes. A guy that's just by himself is that bad? It's risky. All summer workers there have been getting attacked for their bikes. It was fairly organized. People would jump out from these alcoves that are along the bike path,

10 (8m 48s):
The perfect spot for an attack on food delivery workers, a dark isolated stretch along the Willis avenue bridge connecting and

3 (8m 56s):
The Bronx, you know, with bottles, with knives, with guns and demand their bikes. Who's stealing these delivery guys, bikes. That's so brutal. Some of it is, you know, crimes of opportunity. You know, they're easy to resell cause there's a big demand for bikes and they're expensive. There are signs that there are organized cohorts there too. There were sort of groups of motorcyclists who would steal the bikes, but there were a lot of thefts. It was really rampant

10 (9m 22s):
In a recent survey, 54% of delivery workers. Many of them immigrants reported being robbed.

3 (9m 28s):
And so this bridge was a particular hotspot. And last summer, some workers who live nearby who had started a Facebook group, partly in response to the thefts formed kind of a, a Nightwatch. They sit on the corner, they flagged on delivery. Bikers who are coming home, told them to cross it a group that says cross in groups of five or more with a drawing of a man with a flag it's sort of a DIY warning sign. They've set up. They formed this WhatsApp where they would respond to someone nearby, got in trouble and basically started taking matters into their own hands.

3 (10m 16s):
That's where I met Juan, Juan Solano. He said, he'd worked every job. And he liked delivery the best.

11 (10m 22s):
I said <inaudible> E <inaudible>. <inaudible> no se eh,

3 (10m 37s):
And several of those family members had started. This watch had come out of a Facebook group that they started. And they were one of several groups that had formed mostly online, the sort of spreading WhatsApp networks and Facebook groups, you know, initially for self-defense, but then increasingly for activism, the background context of all this sort of why they felt they needed to take matters into their own hands is they'd really been struggling to get the police to respond to these stuffs.

12 (11m 13s):
If there's a robbery and nobody's here, they'll call the police or three, one, one, and the police arrive in two hours and the bike's already gone here. The two months we've been on guard. I've seen a cop car on patrol just three times, three times in two months, there's no security.

11 (11m 29s):
I said, we'll do that.

3 (11m 31s):
The police didn't have a great understanding of delivery work in the city. And they tended to just ignore these reports. And so they felt that they needed to protect themselves separately. A group of workers got so frustrated with the police in Midtown, that they marched on a precinct and demanded the police take action. And that snowballed into a movement.

13 (12m 0s):
My name is Gustavo chair. And from what Tamala am, it's me, who's starting. The moment of loss delivery starts on news and means United liberal workers. I think we haven't done a lot of good things for the community of delivery workers. So far here in the city, the Liberty worker is the essential work, truly pandemic delivery work is not deliberate, just like a food with a little medicine with the liver, all kinds of stuff. So we did a lot for this,

3 (12m 34s):
The worker's justice project, a nonprofit that works with day laborers and other workers, and the city got involved. They'd separately, been talking to workers and they organized sort of increasingly large rallies, thousands of workers that would March on city hall. And they formulated explicit demands and started meeting with city council members and really getting a lot of attention and becoming like a highly effective political movement in just a matter of months,

14 (13m 4s):
Nearly two years, while New York city battled the COVID-19 pandemic and fought for adjust recovery delivery workers have put their lives and livelihoods at risk to keep new Yorkers fed. And our beloved restaurants.

3 (13m 16s):
This culminated in September when the city council passed a package of bills among other things set minimum pay standards, allow workers to set maximum distances that they will travel, require restaurants to provide them restroom access. And it was really a major piece of legislation that passed remarkably quickly. New York

14 (13m 41s):
City is capable of far greater for our essential workers than what the liberties does receive our responsibility as a council is clear. And if the growth of this movement is any evidence, the entire city knows it too.

13 (13m 55s):
Oh, I get it to the point. Like what's going to cry because there's a lot of people. Talk to me that you're crazy. Why are you doing that? Well, this is the power of the working class. People

3 (14m 9s):
Surely the first major attempt to set some protections around food delivery, gig work.

0 (14m 17s):
Oh, he has a bit of like a David versus Goliath feel to it. Tell me what we can glean from this story where a bunch of undocumented immigrant delivery workers in New York city who are being abused and robbed end up accomplishing against huge tech companies. Like, I mean Uber, right? The big guys.

3 (14m 39s):
Yeah. I think there are a couple interesting things we can learn from what happened there. One is gig work often is a pretty isolated job. You you're a worker and you work for the app and you don't see a lot of other workers in New York food delivery work is not like that. Mostly out of necessity, partly because it's often immigrant communities that are already close. And then also partly because they have no shelter, they're not working for a restaurant. And so they congregate in parking garages and certain other public spaces. And so there's a real community there.

3 (15m 20s):
And that when they got connected, you know, initially for their own protection, they were able to become a potent political force really quickly. I think the apps are quite good at hiding the labor behind the services they offer. And I think consumers, when they're forced to pay attention to it, they feel bad. I think it should be different. And I think when those two things collided that the sort of mobilized and United workers and the consumers and citizens and voters who weren't okay with the status quo, I, things can change quickly. So

0 (15m 56s):
Should people stop ordering delivery?

3 (15m 58s):
I asked a lot of the workers that, and they all said, no. I mean, obviously they needed the work. I think one thing consumers can do is tip well. And to think about the work involved. I think it's easy to tip 20% because that's what you would do at a restaurant. But you know, if it's a, if it's a single bagel that's coming from four miles away, obviously it's worth more than that.

0 (16m 22s):
Yeah. Also, maybe don't order a single bagel from four miles away.

3 (16m 26s):
Yeah. Or you could go outside and get a bagel.

0 (16m 39s):
We're going to hear about some sponsors and then we're going to zoom out and see if gig workers outside of New York city are feeling empowered to, As I mentioned earlier in the program support for the shutter, Nate comes from a sauna, a sauna makes it easy to communicate with coworkers. You can inform the right people and get them moving in the right direction. The app visualizes, how work maps out over time team leaders can see how changes might affect deadlines and make the appropriate adjustments for everyone to see the app allows everyone on your team to understand workflow so that y'all can get the job done.

0 (17m 38s):
A signup organizes work y'all so your teams know what to do when to do it and why it matters with the sauna. You can track everything from day-to-day tasks to company wide milestones to learn more, visit a sauna.com. That is a S a N a.com to try a sauna for free today. Hannah Johnston, you researched the gig economy at Northeastern university. How has it changed during the pandemic?

0 (18m 18s):
Has it changed during the pandemic? It sounds like delivery workers achieve some incremental change in New York city.

15 (18m 24s):
Well, for workers, I think it really depends on what you're looking at. So, you know, gig work encompasses a lot of different types of categories, things from, you know, ride hail like Uber, Lyft, you know, grocery delivery, like Instacart parcel delivery, like Amazon flex and of course food delivery. And that is sort of in addition to a lot of other types of online work that's performed remotely. So like with all the stay at home orders and remote work demand for ride health services went down on the other hand, there was increased demand for other types of services specifically for things like food delivery and grocery delivery.

0 (19m 2s):
So it sounds like it's a bit of a mixed bag.

15 (19m 4s):
Yeah, definitely a mixed bag. And as a result that had a really wide range of effect on workers, gig workers, aren't typically eligible to receive unemployment, but during the pandemic special provisions, for me that gave them access to unemployment at the same time in the research that we've been doing, we've spoken with a lot of workers who also switched platforms. So they moved, for example, from like ride hail services to food or parcel delivery where work was more readily available.

0 (19m 32s):
And as we sort of discussed in the first half of the show, there was this sort of rethinking of gig workers as essential workers as frontline workers. I mean, that was always the case, but people seem to come to appreciate that during the pandemic, has that turned into something sort of tangible feeling across the board?

15 (19m 53s):
I think there is sort of a greater cultural acknowledgement of the essential nature of a lot of work that's been traditionally sort of underpaid and undervalued. So yeah, I would say that that has played a role in winning this particular piece of legislation. But I think it's also something that you do see sort of increasingly reflected in the conversations that are taking place around the rights, benefits, and protections that these types of workers should have. Generally,

0 (20m 24s):
There's also this debate as to whether, you know, gig workers should be full-time employees and get a bunch of rights and benefits or whether they should be independent contractors. We made an episode about that fight in California

17 (20m 37s):
Particular measure has national implications, not just for everybody who uses Uber, Lyft and door dash, which are the companies that are most effected by it, basically for the future

15 (20m 47s):
Work.

0 (20m 48s):
I'll say what's the latest on that front

15 (20m 52s):
It's California has been a big battleground for the question around employment status and the gig economy. There was the state law AB five, which was introduced among other things, a new way of determining employment status

6 (21m 9s):
Using a three-part test. The worker is free of control and direction. The worker performs work that is outside the usual course of the hiring entities business. And the worker is engaged in an independently established trade or occupation.

15 (21m 24s):
And this would have had a really significant impact on gig workers because it would have essentially reclassified them as employees rather than as independent contractors and resulting from that, offered them out host of rights and protections that are associated with the employment relationship. So this was followed by a referendum last year, prop 22, that was funded by many good companies to overturn this

18 (21m 49s):
Prop. 20 twos passage allows good companies like Uber, Lyft door, dash, and Instacart to classify workers as independent contractors,

15 (21m 57s):
And most recently at a major

19 (21m 59s):
Blow to Uber and Lyft, a judge

15 (22m 1s):
<inaudible>, it has been ruled unconstitutional by a judge

19 (22m 5s):
Legal battle over the ruling could take a long time to be resolved

15 (22m 11s):
Given how long it can take to come to some sort of clarity, legal clarity about these questions. Workers have continued to organize in search of better terms and conditions at work. And this is sometimes caused them to look for alternative ways to achieve improvements. And that's really how you get lost. Like the one that was just passed in New York city for food delivery workers. So while the benefits that they have one through this loss still fall short of what you would get in an employee, employer relationship, those local laws can do a lot to provide workers with concrete and real improvements in terms of their working conditions and also their wages.

0 (22m 54s):
Thinking about the ongoing debate in California and these new protections in New York, it feels obviously like this would all be easier if there were some sort of clearer federal standard. Maybe is Congress doing anything about this as the Biden administration doing anything about this to sort of clarify where gig workers stand?

15 (23m 14s):
Yeah. So there is something called the pro act, which has passed the house.

20 (23m 18s):
These are 2 25 and the names are 2 0 6.

15 (23m 23s):
Bill is passed, but not the Senate. If it were to get through Congress, it would give workers all kinds of, sort of rights and protections that they don't currently have

21 (23m 34s):
Making it easier for gig workers to organize. The bill would amend many previous labor laws and bolster workers, collective bargaining rights.

15 (23m 42s):
What changed the way that employment classification is, and this could in turn have a big impact on gig workers, again, by potentially reclassifying them as employees

0 (23m 53s):
And this ProAct passed the house, but not the Senate, any chance it could. I know they have some disagreements in the Senate.

15 (24m 3s):
It would be beneficial to working people if they pass.

22 (24m 11s):
So that's why I'm calling on Congress to pass, protect the right, to organize, act the ProAct and send it to my desk. So we can support the right to unionize.

0 (24m 24s):
Where do the stakeholders who have a lot to potentially lose and profits stand on the ProAct, like, you know, the Uber's of the world or the lifts or the seamless is and door dash is. And what have you,

15 (24m 38s):
It's this sort of battle that took place in California is any indication. They are really quite opposed to this type of legislation. California was the most expensive ballot initiative in history. You know, they put a lot of money behind it to, to ensure that workers continue to be treated as independent contractors

0 (24m 60s):
And for gig workers who don't want to wait for the, the right legislation to come around or who find their organization efforts less fruitful than say this, this recent effort in New York city. Do do those workers have any other recourse?

15 (25m 14s):
Yeah. I mean, workers are engaged in sort of a lot of different efforts to improve their working lives. You know, one hopeful direction that some workers have taken is through establishing something called platform co-ops or platform cooperatives. These essentially function like gig platforms, but with a different ownership and management model. So the idea is that similar to like an Uber or Lyft or a care.com, right? But the idea here is that workers own the app. You know, that they are their own bosses and this gives them obviously greater control over the work process, how work is organized, how much they're able to charge for the services that they provide.

0 (25m 57s):
But those apps are unlikely to gain the kind of user base that, that their competitors have. Right.

15 (26m 2s):
So, yeah, I mean, these cops do tend to be small and they are operating in competition with other apps, including some really big market players. So when it comes to the question of sort of scaling up and the resources that are required to that, there are definitely some challenges, but I think they are still a hopeful example because they present kind of a radically different way of having platform work as an option. Right. But structuring it in a way that works for workers, you know, and there are examples, you know, across the U S and the world,

0 (26m 38s):
What are they called?

15 (26m 39s):
So the one in New York city for cleaning is called up and

0 (26m 44s):
Go, it's a great song by the starting line.

15 (26m 50s):
There are also taxi co-ops that are located in places like Denver and Austin, Texas, and the states, Edmonton Alberta. There's a pretty vibrant co-op movement, actually in France, including on, you know, dealing with some platform and gig related work. And there is a group that's based at the new school in New York city. And they maintain a database where you can do a search for a platform cooperatives that are located all over the world.

0 (27m 22s):
Hmm. It sounds like they're just a lot more options than you might know you have. And really the key takeaway here seems to be like, we should think about how the gig work we use and depend on actually works.

15 (27m 36s):
Yeah. I think a lot of the success of the gig economy is based on the convenience that it provides to consumers, but none of this work would be possible without the people who are sort of behind the app. The people who are delivering the food, providing you with transportation, cleaning your homes, taking care of your children. And so I think it is important to be mindful about how we engage with these platforms and how these platforms are treating the workers who are often providing these really essential services.

0 (28m 23s):
Hannah Johnston is a postdoctoral researcher at Northeastern university special thanks to Salma huggy law for her help. With today's episode, it was produced by will read. And it's the penultimate in our series on the future of work, we're going to wrap this thing up next Friday with one on retirement. And whether any of us are going to make enough money to do it, stay tuned. It's today explained Support for the children has come from a sauna.

0 (29m 22s):
If he ever in one of those zooms or, or Microsoft team meetings where like someone's baby starts crying. And then a few people got to leave, they got a dip. And then, you know, Claire has to prepare for a big marketing meeting. So she leaves too, and it's just like a mess. And you're like, did anyone catch what the point of that meeting was? A Sonic can help. They can, you know, make it easy to change deadlines, notify your team and explain situations with clarity, visit a solid.com to try it out for free. Again, that's ASA N a.com to try a sauna for free today.