0 (9s):
Hi,

1 (10s):
You're talking to representative Maloney representative

0 (12s):
Maloney. Thank you for making time for us on a very difficult day.

1 (16s):
Thank you. Sean it is a difficult, very difficult day is a threat to our democracy and an embarrassment to our country. And it was started in cited by the president of the United States and for one branch to incite violence against another branch of government is unheard of in our country.

0 (39s):
I want to get into all of it with you. Can you tell me just right off the bat where you are right now? Are you safe?

1 (45s):
I am safe. I am in my office, in the Rayburn building. We were told to go to our offices and locked the door. And I'm here with two staff members

0 (58s):
Just to let you know, you know, we started the day to day with a conversation with your colleague, Congresswoman Maxine waters, about how this was a historic day for the United States Congress. And now, you know, several hours later, we're talking to you about how this has been an historic day for the United States Congress, but for a completely different reason, how do you feel right now?

1 (1m 20s):
Oh, I I'm, I'm devastated. I'm beyond the Lake beyond belief. That how horrible it is. I can't believe that this is happening in our country, that that honors our elections and the peaceful transfer of power. Like you said, as it is a historic day for all the wrong reasons, it's an embarrassment. It is horrible. I never thought I would ever see this. We, that, that they are, we could not conduct our business. They completely disrupted the work of Congress. They scaled into the, the Congress and to the Capitol, smashing a smashing windows, took over the chambers and I'm told now they've restored order.

1 (2m 3s):
It's my hope that we return to the chamber, do our business, conduct our work, listen and have the debates. The vote for president Biden, confirm the electoral college vote for him so that we can square him into office on January 20th.

0 (2m 22s):
What happened to you today? What did you go to the Capitol building expecting and, and what happened in stead?

1 (2m 30s):
I was expecting a debate over the issues. There are several senators, 12, I believe that are objecting to the, to the verification and the election of president Biden. I was expecting an orderly debate in a, in an orderly vote. What happened in stead? The cause of COVID. You can only have 11 Democrats on the floor at one time and 11 Republicans. I was watching the proceedings in my office. It all broke out and confusion. They were pushing deaths up against the doors to try to keep people from coming in.

1 (3m 13s):
It looked like undercover officers, protecting members and moving them out of the chambers, including the Jordy leader, Hoyer Jim McGovern from Massachusetts, he was acting speaker. I am told that they are at an undisclosed place in the Capitol, tried to reach them. I am in the Rayburn building there roughly 30 members of Congress in their offices on this floor. Apparently the invaders went into the cannon building and the members in their staff left the cannon building and have come in to the Rayburn and Longworth building.

1 (3m 58s):
There is an announcement on the loud speaker that all intruders should leave because we now have a curfew in place at six o'clock that is put in place by the mayor of DC. And it looks like recruitments or more pleased kept coming in. They would March in and precision. I could look out my window. There were thousands on the mall. And in front of the Capitol protesting at times you would see a great deal of smoke going up. I don't know if that was a, what kind of a weapon that was. I understand many people have been arrested and order is being restored.

1 (4m 39s):
I am beyond shocked. I cannot believe that this is happening in our country. It is absolutely horrible. It is not the values of America that respects law in order respects, respects of the peaceful transfer of power. That has been a hallmark of our great country from our founding fathers on this is, this is shocking and disturbing beyond belief. It's it it's like the best deal day is like it's beyond shock.

0 (5m 21s):
What did it feel like for you and for your colleagues in, for your staff? Because watching the images on cable news, it feels like some of these insurrectionists terrorists writers. I'm not sure what to call them right now, but it seemed like some of them had intent were facing off against police officers. And then on the other hand, you saw some people laughing and taking selfies and running a muck in the chambers.

1 (5m 49s):
I can, I can tell you it, it was like an insurrection. It was take care of her. It was shocking to me. Since 11, I have participated in many Capitol Hill security drills that involve sheltering in place and, and putting on protective equipment. I had the protective equipment all over my desk and I never thought I would have to use it. I never dreamed that I'd have to do it for real, because of terrorism inspired by the president of the United States.

0 (6m 26s):
And do you have to use that equipment? Today you have to use that gear today?

1 (6m 29s):
Oh no, no. I, I have it in case we need it. I have it out on the table, protective gear. We have tear gas masks. We have, we have protective gear. I never thought I'd have to use it. And, and when you do, the president went out and said, everybody should go home. Well, he's the one who started the problem. He, he called upon people to come to the capital and protest and they did come and protest. And now, now he's saying, <inaudible> now he's telling them to leave, but he's the one who created this crisis by telling his supporters to go to the, the capital and protests. It is sickening to me.

1 (7m 10s):
It is heartbreaking to see this type of, of, of violence really, and disrespect for our capital, for our institutions, for our values, for our election, for the time honored value of the peaceful transfer of power.

0 (7m 32s):
The main motivating factor here for all of these riders who, who are staging this insurrection at the Capitol today is this idea that something was stolen from them and idea planted by the president of the United States, but further enabled by so many of your colleagues in the house of representatives and even in the United States Senate, have you spoken with any of them? Have you seen any of them today? And if not, what would you say to them today?

1 (7m 59s):
I would say call it off. Let's unify this come together. Let's be Americans. No one can defeat America. When we come together, no one has stronger or better. This division is harmful. It, we have the votes. We have the votes, we have the proof, we have everything. We are going to certify this election for president Biden. I hope we do it tonight. I hope we go back into the Capitol. If the chambers are two and secure at this point, we can go to other rooms in the Capitol, that's have the debate to have the vote, and let's certify Joe Biden as our next president.

1 (8m 43s):
And move forward with the business of protecting Americans, helping America, making America stronger and more United, not divided and destructive as it is today.

0 (8m 56s):
Yeah, I mean, that sounds really nice, but it seems like that's what the president elect. Joe Biden has been calling for since the day, the major networks declared his victory and it, it hasn't been very effective. Has it? Do you think there will be consequences for what happened today? Be it for the outgoing president, be it for the colleagues of yours who enabled and, and cheered on this kind of insurrection for the insurrectionists themselves, who I think a lot of people are shocked to see aren't being arrested are being resisted by the many different police forces on the Capitol right now. Instead they're being, you know, gently pushed back.

1 (9m 41s):
Well, we have secured the capital. Let's be positive. Have the capital secure, let's go back in. Let's do our work. Let's ratify the votes I live to elect Joe Biden. Our president let's move forward. Let's go forward. That's what I'm supporting at this time. I do know some people have been arrested, but they have maintained a water. Now I, the order has been maintained. I can look out my window at the capital and, and the crowds have broken up. It looks like they're honoring the curfew. It was put in place by the mayor of DC.

1 (10m 23s):
Let's hope that it's over and that we can go forward with the business of the people, our constitution calls for a vote of the electoral college. That's why we are here today. Let's vote. That's ratify his election and move forward.

0 (10m 40s):
Yeah. Do you feel like something was broken? Today this, this endless unbroken chain of the peaceful transfer of power, do you think we lost that today in the United States,

1 (10m 53s):
We're bringing it back now. We are going to vote tonight and we will have peaceful transfer of power. I am shocked by what happened today is horrible. I can't believe that it happened in America. It's always someplace else. It's not America, but America is being restored as we speak. They're bringing order back so that Congress can convene to bait and vote and move this country forward with president Biden.

0 (11m 26s):
Okay. Representative Maloney. I really appreciate your time. Stay safe and, and thank you.

1 (11m 31s):
Thank you.