1 (2s):
On Friday, ACETA Arian novelist got up to speak in front of a bunch of SEPTA Arians in New York. Like he had many times before there was at least 1 24 year old in the crowd, which wasn't caused for alarm until it was

2 (15s):
Renowned author Somon Rushdi was stabbed multiple times at a speaking engagement in Western New York state on Friday. It's a sad chapter in the life of the outspoken writer, author of the controversial novel, the satanic verses

1 (31s):
No one saw this brutal attack coming, even though for more than 30 years, Iran has had this fatwa declared against Solomon Rushdi, but it turns out that 30 year fatwa was never really about Rushdi or his writing at all.

3 (47s):
It really was a tragic historic coincidence. It might not have happened if the book had come out at another time,

1 (54s):
That's incoming on today, explained

4 (60s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facility, innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg

1 (1m 46s):
Today explained Sean Rams firm here with Robin Wright, who knows a lot about Iran.

3 (1m 51s):
Oh, I've been going to Iran since 1973, almost every year. I covered the monarchy and I covered the revolution and the Iran rock war. I go back a really long way. And I've written eight books about Iran.

1 (2m 6s):
She's also a contributing writer for the new Yorker. I asked her how she reacted when she saw the news on Friday that Solomon Rushdi had been repeatedly stabbed at a speaking event in New York.

3 (2m 17s):
I think everyone in the literary world, foreign policy worlds were absolutely flabbergasted. There'd been a widespread assumption that the fatwa had been settled. It was also an attack that played out at the Chatauqua institution, which is arguably the most idyllic corner of America. I have spoken on that same Chatauqua stage, the amphitheater several times and thousands of people come to hear discussions of serious issues of our times. And Rushi was talking about freedom of expression, had a big audience, and that a young man could breach security run onto the stage.

3 (2m 58s):
Everything about it was just shocking.

1 (2m 60s):
Robin's gonna tell us how we got to this shocking moment, how Solomon Rushdi was stabbed a few days ago and how his stabbing could actually influence American foreign policy.

3 (3m 11s):
Sal Rushdi was born in Mumbai. He was educated in Britain. He started writing and published books that instantly won wide attention. My favorite is midnight's children, which is about the independence of India. And his fourth book was the one that created the great controversy. It was called the satanic versus

5 (3m 38s):
It seems to me completely legitimate that there should be dissent from orthodoxy, not just about Islam, but about

3 (3m 44s):
Anything. There were passages in this book that included dream-like satirical passages that indicated human weaknesses of the prophet and questioned his credibility as a messenger from God.

5 (4m 4s):
I think it seems to be very, one of the things that a writer can do is to say here is the way in which you're told you're supposed to look at the world, but actually there are also some other ways

3 (4m 13s):
The satanic versus is actually a difficult book. It's not quite as gripping a read as midnight's children. I read it several times and never made it all the way through, but for Muslims, it was considered bla. And so that generated in October, 1988, protests and governments like India's fan the book all together. My God

5 (4m 40s):
Talk about

3 (4m 42s):
The Iranians didn't do anything for six months, but it wasn't until there were attacks in Pakistan in February, 1989, that I had told a whole Mani, the revolutionary leader in Iran began to exploit the outcry in the wider Muslim world and called on all Muslims to kill roti as well as any publishers and any translators of his book anywhere in the world.

1 (5m 10s):
So do we know if the ITO ever read the satanic verses

3 (5m 16s):
ITO Mani son Ahed once told me that his father had never read this satanic verses and even implied that it would've been an insult to suggest that he should read the satanic verses by word of mouth fact was put out there kind of fake news and people jumped on it and Romani issued the FOWA to draw attention away from problems at home. The fat was totally a political and historical coincidence. The publication of the book in October, 1988, intersected with a growing political problem in Iran, as it came out of a eight year war with Iraq, as it faced open divisions within the clergy about their role in power and whether they had failed during the first decade, Iran at the time faced a sanctioning of basic food stuffs and fuel.

3 (6m 15s):
There was a lot of discontent at home and Romani wanted to use this OI as a way to refocus attention on other issues when his own government faced serious political and sometimes existential challenges. So it really was a tragic historic coincidence. It might not have happened if the book had come out at another time,

1 (6m 57s):
The word fatwa is thrown around a lot. I think there was a whole season of curb. Your enthusiasm built around how much Larry David liked saying it. I

8 (7m 4s):
Understand you have a new project, new something you're

9 (7m 7s):
Working on. Yes, yes. I've. I've written a musical for Broadway. It's called fatwa fatwa fatwa. And

8 (7m 18s):
What is a

9 (7m 19s):
Fatwa? A fatwa

3 (7m 20s):
Is a, a fatwa is issued by a cleric. There have been millions of fatwas over the history of Islam. There are fatwas that have disagreed profoundly with each other and many Shiite and Sunis disagree. The clerics disagree over the nature of the fats and the type of instructions they give. But I told Homan he had tremendous power as the leader of the revolution and the defacto leader of the Iranian state. He had the ultimate voice. And so this fatto was arguably far more powerful than many other fat was. He

10 (7m 58s):
Was not just a political or spiritual leader. His word was law, not just to Iranian hardline fundamentalists, but all across the middle

3 (8m 6s):
East. What happened? Wasi died four months after he issued the fat and Salman Rushi was still alive. So the fatwa lingered out there and has now for 33 years,

1 (8m 19s):
What's the initial reaction to this declaration, to this order to murder people who work in publishing,

3 (8m 28s):
It was widely condemned in the west. Needless to say the British government was particularly concern and immediately began providing guards for Rushdi because he had to go into hiding particularly as more and more attacks were coming out

11 (8m 45s):
Somewhere in London. No one, but Scotland yard knows exactly where Rushi holds up in a series of flats, moving to another location. Every time Scotland yard's special branch thinks it prudent that he do

3 (8m 57s):
So, but it eventually led to Britain breaking off relations with Iran. There were deep diplomatic consequences. It affected Iran's trade with the international community, its relations as a prior state for almost another decade. And so it had grave repercussions. And of course, for other people, it had consequences as well. The Japanese translator was stabbed to death.

12 (9m 22s):
An expert Islam and professor at the university of Tuku was found dead this morning in front of an elevator near his office. He had been stabbed several times.

3 (9m 32s):
The Sallan is still never been caught. The Norwegian publisher was attacked near his home and the Italian translator was also stabbed. So there had been a lot of consequences for Rushdi for his publishers and in the diplomatic world.

1 (9m 51s):
So it sounds like the west on some level came to rush these's defense, but were there people who sympathized with the ITO? Was there anyone who criticized Ruti for the satanic versus

3 (10m 6s):
There were some people who tried to parse the issue by condemning the fatwa, but expressing understanding for the fact that some Muslims may be hurt or offended by passages of the book.

13 (10m 21s):
Even Jimmy Carter, whose presidency was destroyed by ITO denounced the book, calling it an insult to the sacred beliefs of our Muslim friends.

1 (10m 31s):
Hmm. And meanwhile, what happens to Rushdi in the years after the Fata has issued

3 (10m 37s):
For nine years, he went underground after the FOTA was originally deemed to be settled by the British government and by the reformers in the Iranian government, Rushdi reemerged gradually sometimes with little or no protection, you know, he did a cameo on British Jones diary.

14 (10m 57s):
It's like a whole theory of short fiction and of the novel, you know, and of course the problem with Martin's definition of the novel is it really only applies to him.

3 (11m 8s):
He became the public face of freedom of expression campaigns around the world. He was a wily sought speaker. He continued to publish books and to go out and promote them and talk about the ideas in them. So he became much more accessible and he lived in New York and acted like anyone in New York does, you know, visible on the street sometimes.

1 (11m 32s):
And, and was there a sense through all of this through cameos and movies and marrying Padma lame that maybe this whole fatwa thing was over with?

3 (11m 44s):
Well, it was very interesting was that Romani died and a reform movement emerged in Iran. Its emergence was the political crisis that, that Ledi to issue this fatwa. But nine years later, its proponents had won the presidency and they wanted to end the tensions over the fatwa, wanted to renew relations with Britain in other Western countries and deal with the FWE itself. And so there were talks between the Iranians and the Brits, and they agreed to terms to restore relations, which basically centered over lifting the fatwa. And I had breakfast with president Mohamed Kato, me who was the leader of the reform movement when he came to the United nations in 1998.

3 (12m 32s):
And he told me in a small group of journalists over breakfast that we should consider the salmon rush the affair completely over. And there was a broad sense in the intelligence communities in the west and even among many in the middle east that the issue had been settled. The problem is a fat lives on forever and it continued to be a football between Iranian reformers and hardliners. The current Supreme leader in 2017 was asked as one does in a fatwa, whether home Manis, fatwa was still valid. And in 2017, I told a comedy said that the Imam's fat is as it was.

3 (13m 21s):
In other words, it was still alive. Again, not much was made of that, but in a very interesting coincidence or maybe not five days before the attack on Rushdi, one of the Iranian hard line publications reprinted, the FOWA in full Hmm. And the timing was very striking.

15 (13m 54s):
Today's episode is sponsored by click up. What would you do if you had one extra day, a week, you could do your laundry. You could volunteer, you could sit outside in the sun. You could help us produce. An episode of today, explained the people at click up, say that extra day might be out there waiting for you to grab it. It's a productivity platform. And it's goal is to save you a whole day of work. Every week, click up is designed to replace all the different productivity tools that you already have. It can house your tasks, projects, docs, goals, and spreadsheets. So you don't have to keep hopping from platform platform. It's set up to work for team of one, a team of 1000 doesn't matter.

15 (14m 35s):
Click up is packed with features and customization options. So you can work the way you work best. Use the code, explain to get 15% off click ups, unlimited plan for a year. That means you can start saving time for less than $5 a month. Sign up today, click up.com and use the code explained this offer. You should know end soon,

4 (15m 3s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them. The world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology, that money will help provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increased economic mobility in the us. But that's just a start. Having ambitious goals is what helps the world make meaningful progress. And it's going to take all of us working together to make sure we continue to move in the right direction because to address these worldwide problems, it's going to take worldwide action.

4 (15m 50s):
It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg.

5 (16m 5s):
What is first arted in the impotence of an overheated department becomes the fate of nations who has not dreamed this dream of being king for a day. But the Imam dreams of more than a day feels emanating from his fingertips. The IRA strings with which he will control the movement of his dream

1 (16m 27s):
Today explained continuing with Robin Wright, the coverage of Rashti's attack in the west has been one of shock and outrage. And you know, this is a abomination of freedom of speech. How was the news received in Iran?

3 (16m 45s):
Hardline newspapers responded in outrageous ways to the attack against rusty. They celebrated it. They celebrated Heidi Matar, the 24 year old Lebanese born in America. Who'd carried out this egregious attack. They called him a hero.

17 (17m 4s):
I heard the news on the TV and I was so glad because of the insults Sam rusty had made against our prophet. And the fact were issued against him. Finally worked. They should know that sooner or later, the right will always overcome God willing. He pays for what he

3 (17m 20s):
Did. One of the papers published a picture of Rushdi on a stretcher being carried away from Chatauqua with a headline Satan on the path to hell. So hardliners celebrated this and many of the papers are very close to the regime. The editors are even appointed by the Supreme leader. The government itself said that it had nothing to do with this attack. And that Rashti had just brought this on himself. The initial sense is that this may have been a lone Wolf attack, even though it was pre-planned. And pre-staged, he's a kid who was born in the United States, lived in New Jersey.

3 (18m 6s):
He went back to Lebanon to visit one of his parents. They had divorced in 2018 and he came back much more religious. His mother said, and she had a hard time connecting with him. There were questions about, on the basis of his social media accounts, which were filled with pictures of ITO hall, made a pictures of general Soleimani, who is the leader of the revolutionary guards could force whom the United States killed in a drone strike in January, 2020 pictures of the former military, chief of his Ebola.

3 (18m 46s):
So from his social media accounts on Twitter, on Facebook, there are indications that he had begun to follow the kind of ideas popular among hardliners. We don't know what connections he ever made with anyone in his Ebola or anyone in Iran. We may find that out down the road

1 (19m 6s):
And how is the United States government responding?

3 (19m 9s):
So the interesting thing about the rush, the attack is that it intersects with two other points of tension with the United States and with the broader world. The first was the announcement just a few days before Rushdi was, was attacked by the American department

18 (19m 31s):
Today, the department of justice, unsealed charging documents revealing an Iranian murder plot against John Bolton, the Trump national security advisor.

3 (19m 39s):
There were subsequent reports that other operations involved plots against former secretary of state, Mike Pompeo and former secretary defense, mark Esper, as well as other officials I know about, but who have not gone public, they are all receiving now round the clock government protection from threats, by Iran and its proxy. His Ebola from Lebanon. The second crisis is the Iran nuclear deal, which was negotiated by the Obama administration and finalized after two years of torturous diplomacy in 2015 and then abruptly abandoned by president Trump in 2018, the Biden administration has been trying to revive it because the Iranians turned around and accelerated their program.

3 (20m 28s):
And they're now just days away from having produced enough, enriched uranium to fuel a bomb, which is a critical step in building producing and packaging a nuclear weapon.

19 (20m 42s):
It's no secret that we have the technical capabilities to produce a nuclear bomb. We do not want it, and we have not decided to do so.

3 (20m 51s):
And so there's particular urgency. And so after 16 months of broad tensions, the Iranians have said they will give their answer finally now. And so we're at the day new mall stage of that, but this all comes together at a time that while Biden prefers diplomacy in the run up to the midterm elections, doing a deal with Iran, given Rushdi, given the murder for higher plots is going to be very hard politically. And so we're kind of back to the early tensions between Iran and the United States 43 years ago at the time of the revolution.

3 (21m 40s):
And this is also a moment where the original revolutionaries are beginning to die out. E the Supreme leader who's been in power for 30 years. He had prostate cancer a few years ago. You know, the actuarial charts would tell you that time is beginning to run out for him. And the big question with the majority of Iranians now born since the revolution, the majority of voters born since the revolution and the majority of Iranians, really very tech savvy, very much connected to the outside world. You know, they're on TikTok and social media, and they're not as wedded to the strict religious ideology of the men who carried out the revolution.

3 (22m 22s):
So the fate of the revolution is also at stake. There's a lot that's playing out in these separate events that are actually linked in terms of the future.

1 (22m 31s):
So it's not beyond imagination that this attempted assassination of salmon, Rushdi years after people had, you know, stopped thinking about this. Fatwa could play into some very important decisive moments in Iran's political history

3 (22m 48s):
And in us Iran relations or relations, even between the west rush remains a British citizen as well. He's been knighted by the queen. There are a lot of people who have once again, condemned Iran, and in the same way they did at the time, the thoughtful came out. You know, the, one of the questions is, is it acceptable? Are people who prefer diplomacy, even willing to accept a nuclear deal again with Iran. This is a very tricky moment for president Biden and a tragic moment for Salman Rushdi in, in terms of his personal life. But it plays out in ways that affect us all Know it may make some writers rethink how far they're willing to go, how creative they're willing to be.

3 (23m 44s):
But I think in, in, in broad terms, the, in terms of the history of the moment, there's a real danger that the attack and the events that have played out over the last year and a half with the politics in Iran, the revelation of these death plots against Americans, most of which relate to our killing of general co Soleimani in 2020, that the tensions between Iran and the United States play out in ways that if there isn't diplomacy, if there isn't resolution of our differences, that that leaves military options as the logical alternative. And frankly, I fear that any war between Iran and the United States financially involving other players, including Israel and some of our other allies would be more difficult and more costly with more consequences than either of our wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

3 (24m 37s):
And that's a fairly terrifying thought.

1 (24m 56s):
Robin Wright is a contributing writer for the new Yorker. She's also a senior fellow at not one, but two Washington think tanks,

3 (25m 4s):
The us Institute of peace and the Woodrow Wilson international center for scholars.

1 (25m 11s):
Our show today was produced by Abha artsy mixed by Paul Robert mosey and fact checked by Laura Bullard with help from Hadi Modi and Tori Dominguez. The rest of the team at today explained includes Halima haw, Amanda Lu, Ellen miles, Brian and Victoria Chamberlain. We had extra help this week from John Aarons. Our editor is Matthew Colette. Our supervising producer is Amina AAD. Shapiro is our director of sound. My co-host is Noel king. We use music by Breakmaster cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld we're on the radio in partnership with WNYC today explained is part of the box media podcast network.