1 (2s):
This coming Sunday, a friend of Vladimir Putins will be on the ballot in Bosnia's National elections. Putin doesn't have many chums, but with Miro Dodick, one of Bosnia's three presidents, he has things in common. They both like soccer. They're both into authoritarianism, and they both have a passion for writing. Sorry. Rewriting history.

2 (22s):
Bos,

1 (25s):
The Bosnian Serb leader, has gained popularity by saying a thing that definitely happened, never happened, a genocide that ripped his country apart. 30 years ago during a civil war, the

3 (37s):
Fighting in Bosnia was severe in a number of fronts. Today, the United Nations in NATO are watching for now

1 (43s):
A war. The US helped end

4 (44s):
The warring factions in Bosnia reached a peace agreement. As a result of our efforts in Dayton, Ohio,

1 (51s):
A war that Dodick may be on the brink of starting again. It's coming up on today, explained

5 (1m 1s):
The case of a missing. Indigenous Alaska women sparks new questions about other missing and murdered indigenous women. But when the cops stop looking, a team of local journalists step in to bring the truth to light, that's where ABC's thrilling new drama Alaska Daily begins. And where it's headed will have you on the edge of your seat. Starring two time Oscar winner, Hillary Swank, Grace Dove and scandals. Jeff Perry Alaska Daily premieres Thursday, October 6th on ABC and Stream. Next day on Hulu,

6 (1m 37s):
There's a big new gay movie out and one of its stars says when you're making a gay movie, that you want straight people to watch you tread carefully.

7 (1m 47s):
Are you familiar with the concept of Shonda Sam?

6 (1m 52s):
Tell me all about that.

7 (1m 54s):
It's a Yiddish phrase and it's basically means you're embarrassing us. In front of the Gentiles,

6 (1m 59s):
We unpack the new Romcom Bros on into it. Vultures Pop Culture podcast

1 (2m 15s):
Today explains senior reporter and producer Halima Shaw. You have been reporting on the Bosnian Serb politician, Milo Rod dok. He says that the Bosnian genocide never happened. It did in fact happen. I was 10 or 11 when it happened. It was all over the newspapers. What is this man's deal?

8 (2m 32s):
Mil Rod Dodick makes absurd claims. There are so many people who remember the Bosnian genocide, and I actually spoke to someone who remembers it and barely survived it. His name is El Vine Paik. He settled in St. Louis, which is home to the largest Bosnian American community in the country. And he's a bosniac or a Bosnian Muslim, and he's shared his story both at The Hague during a war criminals trial. And he's also shared it with me.

9 (3m 4s):
The village that I grew up was just that wonderful, wonderful place to live in. I was going to school. I am a Muslim. I had lots of friends servicing cots.

8 (3m 18s):
And that detail about having lots of friends who were Serbs and Croats is really important here because for most of the 20th century, Bosnia was part of a multi-ethnic Yugoslavia. And for years under one dictator, Muslim bosniacs, Catholic Croats and Orthodox Serbs lived together in El Vine's. Community. Kids from different ethnic groups hung out, played in each other's villages, but even that exchange had its limits.

9 (3m 49s):
So as a kid we were going, you know, visiting each other and going through, you know, playing soccer together. And I remember my dad clearly telling me, Don't go there at late night because we're not welcomed. And I never understood why this is going way before the war started.

1 (4m 5s):
And we now know it was going that way because Yugoslavia was ruled by a dictator, Joseph Tito. And he'd essentially told this melange of people, As long as I am alive, you're all gonna get along

8 (4m 19s):
Essentially. And when this dictator dies, there is a power vacuum. So by the early 1990s, we start seeing New nation states emerge from these different groups. One is Croatia, one is Bosnia. They start to declare their independence. But there's another group here, the Serbs, who have started to dominate the former Yugoslav army and they have very different interests. They wanna create a region called a greater Serbia. And these nation states like Croatia and Bosnia that are splintering off, are in direct conflict with their goals.

10 (4m 58s):
The Yugoslav bombs pockets in cannon at militia targets throughout the day.

8 (5m 6s):
So in the spring of 1992, El Vine is 14 years old. Bosnia has just declared independence. And this independence is actually recognized by the United States and by Europe. But it wasn't recognized by Serb nationalists who are rallying behind this guy named

11 (5m 23s):
Milovich.

8 (5m 32s):
In the aftermath of the war, Milovich would be accused of trying to engineer this greater Serbia by forcibly removing non Serbs from se populated areas. So we're talking about Bosniacs and Croats in particular. And that would basically set up a genocide that killed over 100,000 people.

11 (5m 52s):
This is the man whose embrace of nationalism is blamed for all the wars in US Lavia today.

1 (5m 59s):
Okay, so you have Slovic who wants a greater Serbia? You have the Bosnians who want their own country. The US is like cool, will recognize your own country. El Vine is Bosnian. When does this start to affect him?

8 (6m 12s):
In 1992. So pretty soon after Bosnia declares its independence on the Muslim holiday of Aha, which is this three day festival. El Vine starts to notice shelling. A bunch of things happen at this point. El Vine's family hides in a basement for a while. His dad takes off to defend the village and eventually becomes a fighter in the war. It becomes pretty clear that the rest of the family can't stay at home. So El Vine and his mom, as well as some other relatives run to another village.

9 (6m 51s):
At the time when we were leaving, they were entering the northern part of the village, so you can see the smoke coming out of the houses. So they were burning and that's when the people broke down in the tears and crying and they couldn't believe that it is actually here. We've seen it on tv, but actually now it's on our doorstep and we're leaving

8 (7m 11s):
Over the next seven months. El Vine's family is on the move. The war is raging on an El Vine's. Dad has been away fighting in it. But one day his dad comes back to El Vine and his mom, he finds them in a village called Vichi, which was kind of the last pocket of Muslim croat resistance in the area.

9 (7m 31s):
When dad came over and says, We are gonna surrender tomorrow. All the males are leaving tonight and all the civilians, tomorrow morning you will raise your flag and everyone's gonna go towards the the safe territory of Bosnia.

8 (7m 50s):
There was a deal. Civilians could basically take buses and they would be safe from attack. But at the same time, there had been many reports of men and boys being pulled off these convoys and taken to prison camps. So El Vine and his dad decide to join a group that was taking a different route to Bosi in territory. They were going through the woods,

9 (8m 11s):
700 plus men, and there were some women too, and some children as well, but mainly men

8 (8m 20s):
In the woods. The group stumbles into a Serb ambush.

9 (8m 26s):
That's when we heard the SE forces calling us Bali. It's over. They were hand grenades thrown. People were running, they were captured immediately. They said, You have to surrender.

8 (8m 37s):
And so they do. The soldiers take El Vine and his dad and the rest of the men and boys to a nearby village called Grab vi. They're told to surrender all their weapons, all their valuables, and lie down on the ground

9 (8m 52s):
Like sardines in a three rows. We were faced down that this time it started raining. It was very muddy. I was laying on my left hand side, it was my uncle. On my right hand side was my dad. That's when the serves started interrogating and asking question. They were celebrating firing. You can feel the bullets going over your head. I don't know what the tactic was there, but I remember my uncle screaming and saying, They're gonna kill us. Also, they were saying at this moment, if there's any children and if there was any women to get up, I didn't want to get up because I didn't wanna leave my dad. I didn't want to go.

9 (9m 32s):
And I was very nervous, waited until last moment until my uncle told me, Do you gonna live? Get

8 (9m 39s):
Up. Women and children like El Vine were taken into a school and told to wait there.

9 (9m 43s):
There was a soldier approaching to us with the light on his head. I assume he was some kind of ranking officer. He assured us to stay there and that no one is gonna be hurt. You're gonna be stationed in the lower level in the classroom until morning that he guarantees that nothing is gonna happen to us, but the ones left behind, they will pay for this.

8 (10m 9s):
And then El Vine saw the ones left behind outside. His dad was one of them. They had their hands tied behind their backs and were taken to a different part of the school

9 (10m 19s):
That night. You know, we heard screaming and you can hear the beating and and noises above us.

8 (10m 27s):
The next morning, women and children who had been separated from the men boarded buses headed for Bosnia and territory. There were several stops along the way and on one of them, El Vine saw a familiar face.

9 (10m 40s):
That's when I reunited. When mom, when mom saw me, she immediately started crying. She said, What happened? And that's when I told her that this happened and everybody started crying. It was horrifying that, but I said, We surrender. I'm here. And I said, They promised our dad and everyone will stay alive.

8 (11m 2s):
They didn't promise that though.

9 (11m 4s):
No, they did not promise they did not live. Part of me thinks that they're still alive because they're still missing.

8 (11m 17s):
It's been 30 years since that massacre and mass graves are still being discovered from the genocide in Bosnia. But El Vine's, father and uncles still have yet to be found. And yet this massacre at GRA was hardly the worst that happened during the war. The US wouldn't even get involved for another almost three years when the violence reached horrific highs.

13 (11m 43s):
Can you tell us what the conditions of living in Trevor needs were like before July, 1995? Say in,

8 (11m 52s):
In May. That's when the most infamous massacre took place at a Muslim enclave called Nitza, which was being protected by hundreds of un peacekeepers. When Serbs attacked it, the Serb forces basically did what they had been doing throughout the course of the war. They were separating Bosniac men and boys who might be able bodied enough to fight them and killing them. About 8,000 people died at. And that was a turning point because up until then, the US and NATO were responding with the occasional airstrike and there was a lot of anger towards them. The world was saying that the US and NATO was quote, muddling through

14 (12m 35s):
Mr. President as leader of the free world, as leader of the only superpower. Why has it taken you the United States so long to articulate a policy on Bosnia?

8 (12m 46s):
So the US can't ignore Reza that same year, the Clinton administration does two big things. They back a NATO bombing campaign on SE targets and they get the Crow app president, the Bosnian president, and the Serb president, Milo, to an air base near Dayton, Ohio to end the war.

12 (13m 7s):
I believe the talks will succeed and we are here to join these efforts in bringing peace to the

8 (13m 16s):
Boka. These three men who cannot stand each other come to a deal called the Dayton Accords. They agree that Bosnia is going to be a country made of two entities. One called the Federation of Bosnia and Hertz Seina, and another called Republica Seka or the Republic. And to keep this very fragile piece, Bosnia has three rotating presidents, a Serb, a Croat, and a Bosniac. And that's a power sharing structure that stands till today. Halima. What ended up happening to Eldine after grab, Avi Elvad and his mom settled in a Muslim community that was north of Sarajevo and they stayed there till the end of the war when he turned 17.

8 (14m 2s):
But on his 18th birthday, El Vine learned that he's qualified to come to the US as a refugee. So he comes to the US and basically starts his life here. He finds work, he needs sa, Bosnian woman. They get married, she convinces him to live in St. Louis and he has two sons who are 10 and 13 now, has he told his kids about any of this? He's begun telling them parts of it, and he's also taken them back to visit Bosnia too. But he does feel very distressed by the ongoing turmoil in Bosnia. And he says he doesn't know how to talk to his kids about that.

8 (14m 42s):
Bosnia's shaky power sharing structure is basically struggling to stay in place. It's been over 30 years and there's been an explosion in se nationalism and separatism in recent years.

15 (14m 57s):
I don't particularly love Bosnia and her, I don't love Bosnia the way I have other political loves.

8 (15m 4s):
Mil Dodi, who we talked about earlier is now saying the Bosnia and genocide never happened. Why

1 (15m 11s):
Would he do this?

8 (15m 12s):
Because it makes him incredibly popular among Serbs and he's got an election to win this weekend. But Doic could also be putting the country at risk for another civil war.

9 (15m 23s):
Mueller Doic and his agenda, his approach, it's very scary. And are we back to square one? We're actually all started again.

16 (15m 37s):
Kara Swisher here. You may know me as the person who made Mark Zuckerberg's sweat pushed Kim Kardashian to talk dollars or got Secretary Mayor Pete Buttigieg to eat a juicy strawberry live on stage. Okay, that one was awkward, but that's what I like to do. Make powerful people comfortable with being uncomfortable. Now I'll be doing that on my new show from New York Magazine on with Kara Swisher. We'll bring you news and the newsmakers I'm paying attention to and we'll do it twice a week on Mondays and Thursdays. Go check it out on with Kara Swisher wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (16m 16s):
Hey folks, I wanna tell you about another show that I have heard is amazing. It's called, This is Love. It's a podcast that takes a very broad view of love sharing stories, not just about romance, but also about people doing strange things that mean a lot to them. Like someone who digs up old backyard outhouses to find hidden treasure and a group of people desperately trying to keep one type of tree alive. Some of the stories are really funny. There's an episode about a guy who puts on a huge pair of fake feet and makes tracks up and down the beach. He spends decades fooling his neighbors. And some of the stories are heartwarming. They have won about a man who found a baby on a subway platform.

1 (16m 56s):
Listen for stories about love and all of the surprising forms it can take. You can subscribe to This Is Love wherever you get podcasts today explained, We're back with Yasin Milovich, who's a political scientist and analyst of Southeastern European politics, Yasin. Earlier in the show, my colleague Shaw talked to a Bosnian man in St. Louis who lived through the war. This man is terrified of Milo Rod Dodick. What is your analysis of dodick?

17 (17m 32s):
I do think he's scary. I think he's an extremely opportunistic leader. He's a political chameleon who has changed his colors many, many times, but above all, he's concerned about his political survival and there is a fear no limit to what he is willing to do to ensure his political survival, including fermenting violence in Bosnia. 30 years after the end of the last war,

18 (17m 58s):
God dodick shared these scenes on social media. He and colleagues singing served nationalist folk songs in their sur over headquarters. The

17 (18m 6s):
Messages rooted in wholesale, political and historical revisionism of the facts of the Bosnian War and the Bosnian genocide and the broader Yugoslav dissolution. The actual upshot of all that revisionism and negation is that he is seeking to realize what the Geno Ceras were unable to do, which is to ensure the formal and complete session of this AOL self-declared entity of the Republica ska and ideally it's app pending to a greater Serbian state.

1 (18m 37s):
All right, Dodick is a Bosnian Serb running to be president of Republica Seka or the Serb Republic. It's sometimes also called the RS entity. And he wants what exactly for the RS entity to be only Serbians.

17 (18m 51s):
What Mr. Duick wants is that this entity, this, this, this entity that was created in the early nineties and the context of the Bosnian War, he wants to formally take that entity out of Bosnia Hertz and append it to a greater Serbian state.

1 (19m 6s):
Why does that scare people so much?

17 (19m 11s):
Because the original way in which the S entity was created was through the wholesale extermination expulsion of the virtually the entire non SE community. Large parts of what is today, the R RS entity used to be majority bok and in some areas, majority croats, almost all of those communities were exterminated or expelled. And still to this day about, depending on how you wanna count 20 to 25% of the population of the RS entity is non se, it would mean that the international community and allowing something like the formal secession of the RS entity would effectively be green lighting genocide as a way of legalizing the redrawing of borders in Europe and the world more broadly.

17 (19m 57s):
And moreover, I think from a practical standpoint, there is no way and no world in which the ethnic flushing community in particular would allow the RS entity to succeed without a very serious conflict who would see this very much as an existential threat to their existence and their survival as a people and as a community.

1 (20m 19s):
What is Dodick backstory? How did he get to be where he is?

17 (20m 23s):
He's an interesting figure. He comes from a fairly small time obscure family and in 1998 he is ushered into power with the help of the United States who kind of facilitate the, the transfer of power in the entity. And Milan is, you know, touted as, as the new moderate face of se politics, Sy Bosnia, hers. What happened is that, that in the mid two thousands and into the 2010s, Ode began to reinvent himself as an arch internationalist. I think to my mind the the point at which there is no return any longer really is 2014.

17 (21m 4s):
In 20 14, 2 very important things happen. One in the international context, obviously is the, the initial invasion of Ukraine by Russia and Dudic, along with a host of regional leaders really look at the invasion of Ukraine in 2014 and think, you know, this is the twilight of the West. And they really begin to see Russia as a rising power and a power which they wanna hook themselves up with Putin's own nationalist credentials, his sort of orthodox revivalism. This is all very, very tailor made for sort of serve nationalist leaders in the Western Balkans. And then the other thing that happens locally in Boser to give is you have the most significant anti-government protests in the country since the end of the war.

17 (21m 48s):
They're very, very dramatic. The state presidency, torched and sacked.

18 (21m 52s):
There have also been demonstrations in the capital Sarajevo. It's a sign of deepening social une over the lack of economic and political progress.

17 (22m 1s):
There's real rage and anger at this kind of post-war corrupt, criminal, political elite of which Duick is, is very much emblematic and Duick really begins to think very, very seriously about how to cement his regime at the local level. Mr. Duick has done everything conceivable to undermine the date and peace accords. He has done everything conceivable to undermine any kind of form of rational governance within the Bosnian state. He is currently in the process of trying to create these breakaway institutions.

20 (22m 40s):
He's talking about turning these paramilitary police into a Bosnian Serb army.

17 (22m 46s):
He very frequently denies the facts of the genocide and Bosnia. He consistently refers to the state of Serbia as his actual homeland and his motherland and the state that he's actually committed to that he cares nothing for Bosnia. The Bosnia is not a real place.

21 (23m 0s):
You're also on the record though, as saying Bosnia is a quote rotten country, a quote country, which doesn't deserve to exist. Are you retracting those statements? No, no. Apollo

17 (23m 12s):
At the international level, he enjoys very close ties to the broader European, far right. He's a very close associate of Victor Aban, the prime minister of Hungary. Very recently he's exchanged a series of letters which have been published in the media with Mr. Orban talking about the need for the renewal of a Christian Europe, the need to expel alien peoples and cultures from Europe, which is very clearly a reference to Muslims in Europe, but very specifically the ethnic boian community of Bosley, her, which is predominantly Muslim. So he, he is very much this kind of combative, reactionary, xenophobic chauvinist figure that unfortunately now also enjoys significant support within the international community.

1 (23m 60s):
He embraces right wing nationalism because it works and he and other leaders around the world have learned that lesson once he embraced this ideology. Is there any turning back?

17 (24m 13s):
I don't think there's a turning back. I think there has to be a point of catharsis and there has to be a point of resolution. We've seen that everywhere where these kind of hard right internationalist ideas begin to take root, especially ones that advance their political discourse and narratives on the basis of revisionism conspiracist disinformation large, because these people remake the world in, in, in their own image, right? I think the people who, who really go along with them, they live in a parallel reality. And at some point that parallel reality has to begin to be able to remake the actually existing world in its own image if it is to survive.

17 (24m 54s):
And that is ultimately what is driving Duick. He, he has to go full on and he goes for the realization of his political project because that's the only thing left. I was also born in Bosnia. My family was very fortunate to fled the conflict very early on. But, you know, I was a refugee, I was a displaced person and, and, and it has very much colored the entirety of my life. And I do take the view that when you're dealing with extremists, like willing and, and, and desiring to enact violence, to preserve himself and to realize these ideological machinations that he has, I think you take them at their word because if you don't, you risk a still more catastrophic turn of events.

1 (25m 49s):
Today's show was reported and produced by Halima. It was edited by Matthew Collect. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and it was engineered by AEM Shapiro and Paul Robert Mosey. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.