1 (5s):
It's Friday April 10th 2020 and it's colder and windier and DC today than it was yesterday. I'm Sean ROMs for him. And this is the weather in DC along with your coronavirus update from today explained we hit oblique Benchmark today more than 100,000 people around the world have died as a result of this coronavirus and that's likely an undercount lockdowns are being extended around the world, Ireland Italy South Africa. Asia are all looking too late April early May at the soonest. Meanwhile President Trump has been pushing to reopen the country next month. It's worth noting that President Trump doesn't really have the authority to just open the country back up. The CDC has recommended people shelter in place through the end of April, but that's for states to decide which is why a few States still haven't really even shut down yet, Nebraska.

1 (53s):
They say antibody tests will be key to getting back to normalcy around the world. Dr. Anthony. Fauci the nation's leading. Disease expert says a large number of antibody tests should be available in the United States soon. There have been problems with the accuracy of these tests. So I guess we'll have to wait and see another big part of getting back to normal is contact tracing Google and apple are saying they're going to collaborate to use Bluetooth technology in their billions of devices around the world to tell us if we've come into contact with someone who has had this coronavirus. They say users privacy will be protected. The feature is still a few months away. Sessional basketball might also still be a few months away.

1 (1m 33s):
But some of your favorite players from the NBA WNBA past and present will be getting together to play horse from their houses and neighborhood courts. The first round is coming this Sunday check local listings. Not sure who will win but shoutouts to my world champion Toronto Raptors share your pandemic stories with today explained what's on your mind. What's bumming you out? What's giving you hope? What's your greatest concern? Who's your favorite Toronto Raptor email today? Explain it vox.com tweet at today underscore. And or a traumas firm or give us a call and leave a message at two zero two six eight eight five nine, four four.

3 (2m 13s):
This episode is brought to you by US Cellular. There's never been a better time to switch to US Cellular because now when you do you'll get 50% off select new smart phones like the Samsung Galaxy S 10 e or the Google pixel for a great choice on a great phone now, that's fair US Cellular choose Fair terms apply.

1 (2m 52s):
Hi, my name is Shawn. I'm calling from New York City. I am a relatively healthy 27 year old and I'm maybe the most anxious I've ever been in my entire life. And I just I don't I don't know what to do about that like that that the response needs to be mitigating like actual real Health impacts for the most vulnerable sections of population. I get that I really do but what can the rest of us do? Just to feel okay. I don't know has anyone thought about the kind of psychological impact of this crisis is having on the population.

1 (3m 34s):
Thanks so much. Thanks for calling Sean the answer to your question is yes your boy Ezra. Klein has been thinking about the psychological impact of this crisis. He wrote a whole dang piece about it for vox.com.

3 (3m 49s):
I think in politics were very used to looking at the economic impacts of things. What is it going to do to GDP? What is it going to do to the unemployment rate, but what coronavirus is doing is disrupting something more foundational and fundamental even than that. It is disrupting whether or not we are able to see each other to give each other a hug. Go visit a parent and there's been a revolution in recent years in the Medical Science around social isolation and loneliness which are different things notably social isolation is objective measurable. How many people do you see in a week? Loneliness is subjective it is whether or not you feel lonely. But both of them have mental effects on people and they really do physical harm.

3 (4m 29s):
They are genuine health risk. So understanding that and then trying to Abate it recognizing that we have to do more. More than just physically distance. We also need to socially connect particularly for the most vulnerable. I wanted to write this piece because I think it's unbelievably important

1 (4m 46s):
other numbers on social isolation. Are they as bad as these jobs numbers worse in we don't do

3 (4m 52s):
it in a national way moment-to-moment the way we do for the economy. It isn't that there are daily unemployment filings for loneliness. Yeah, but we do have surveys and we do a lot of of data on this by coincidence just a couple months ago the national academies of science relates to Human.

1 (5m 7s):
Each

3 (5m 7s):
report on the health consequences of social isolation and loneliness in older adults as you might expect older adults are among the most vulnerable to this. So 43 percent said they felt lonely and about 1/4 fit the definition of socially isolated and this is

1 (5m 22s):
pre coronavirus or

3 (5m 23s):
is this is pre coronavirus. Yeah. And remember you may be a millennial or a gen Z or whatever who's socially distancing right now, but if you're over 70, you're doing something in most parts of the country if you're paying attention, that is much more severe your Grunting you are terrified of catching this not because you might give it to somebody else which is bad enough. But because you may not survive it. So a lot of people who are already quite lonely quite isolated have moved into a period of self-imposed quarantine that does not have a clear end point and the more that young people go out the more that their children or their friends are out in the world and potentially able to catch this virus somewhere.

3 (6m 4s):
They have to segregate away from them. So it's really really Lee difficult and loneliness and isolation particularly among the elderly is a tremendous health risk. It seems to be physical in some deep way and the particular way in which its physical the former Surgeon General Vivek Murthy has done a lot of work on this. He's got a book coming out on it is that it sets off a tremendous stress response in the body human beings. No on a deep level deeper than our conscious ought to feel safe in a group. If we are not in a group we wake up more often during the night. We are more afraid. Raid we are what's called hyper-vigilant or consulate scanning for threats. We don't relax and this seems to then set off a chain reaction of very dangerous actual physical reactions in the body.

3 (6m 48s):
So in this National Academy of Science just report what they find is social isolation, and I'm quoting here has been associated with a significantly increased risk of premature mortality from all causes and those causes include a 50 percent increased risk of developing. Dementia a 29% increase Risk of incidence of coronary heart disease at 25 percent increased risk of cancer mortality a 59 percent increased risk of functional Decline and a 32 percent increased risk of stroke. Now that is over time. It's not necessary over two or three weeks of being lonely. But if this goes on for a long time, it is worth being clear being lonely and being isolated is a health risk a direct physical risk to your life.

3 (7m 30s):
I'm sure there are some people who are

1 (7m 32s):
fine being alone. I know a few people who seem happier and quarantine than they were going to work. Every day, but what about people who already suffer from serious anxiety or depression people who are already desperately

3 (7m 46s):
lonely. This is a huge issue. I think so the way I would think about this is that the people who are already at the highest risk for social isolation and loneliness are even more vulnerable in this era. So we've been talking about the elderly but the disabled are another group here a lot of people who Already hard for them to go out already hard for them to go take a walk already hard for them to see people for one reason or another and then people with serious mental health issues who are socially anxious who are depressed. This is going to make it much harder both for them to go out. But also harder for people to reach out to them. They may have an extreme reaction where they have trouble even taking incoming help even if people are trying to be safe about it, and I want to be so clear we need to do the social distancing.

3 (8m 33s):
We absolutely need to but we also have to remember that the Cost of social distancing will fall disproportionately on those who are already most vulnerable and already were the most lonely and isolated and that will have not just psychological but also health effects for them.

1 (8m 52s):
I'm doing okay. So my hair is a wreck because I haven't figured I'm not going anywhere so deposit curly it or anything. My name is Dorothy Kelly. I'm 84 years old. I live alone in the I'm pretty much an isolation. It's really hard to just be stuck in the house all the time. I like to be with people. So I miss that and I've seen my daughter on Saturdays from a distance. She brings me groceries and leave them in the garage and tells me not to come past the kitchen door and the same with my in law who QE stuff on the front porch and doing Duolingo on my iPad and Italian mostly to keep my brain active and then reading a mystery book and then I keep cleaning out some drawers because I am 84 and I've got so much stuff accumulated.

1 (9m 53s):
You can't imagine then that's basically and watching movies that are recorded and evening or TV shows. I like that Jeopardy and Wheel of Fortune, so I record them. I don't even know what FaceTime was to last week when the phone started making noises and I answered it was much sun doing based on so I said, how do you do that? So he explained it to me so luckily for cell phones and text messages and stuff like that and face time with my family. So that's good. But I'm looking out my window right now and trees are starting to bloom all over the place and the birds of the morning Earth.

1 (10m 39s):
Guess they don't know there's such a thing as a coronavirus and they're all singing and building their nest in the trees are in my house. It looks it's so funny to hear them singing being happy. I miss something able to hug. My grandson. He's 9 years old. I have five grandchildren, but he's the youngest and I just missed the closeness, you know, being able to hug somebody and have somebody hug me and which I always did with my family we're Huggers. So I miss that. Yeah. My advice to other people that are in my position is to keep busy with your mind do something what something pleasant read a book that's interesting and try to stay positive as a main thing.

1 (11m 28s):
And I think you know someone in my position has to think like that has to be positive. Otherwise they may as well just you know curl up and die because it's a people have died from depression is just being sad. So you just got to keep thinking positively that this will end. Hopefully I just hope it all does and yep. This is Advertiser content

3 (11m 58s):
as a journalist. I'm part of the problem. We reduce people to 1 minute 14 News packages. I've done it. I've done it myself about my own people newsrooms are tasked with covering the whole world, but they don't represent it more than three-quarters of all Newsroom employees in the US are white and three out of five of them are men. This has an impact that voice you heard is Nella for hidayat. She's a journalist a 30-something millennials.

1 (12m 24s):
Of color and a

3 (12m 25s):
Muslim Now look for is the host of course correction a podcast from Doha debates and Qatar Foundation. It seeks to include the voices were not hearing in the conversations. We are all having around important Global issues, but I was 15 years old and I was watching the news and documentaries. It was like this big tall white man who's telling me what the brown people think right and I'm the brown people and it would be presented to us as fact. So the course correction podcast is basically my advice. Attempt at trying to change

1 (12m 56s):
things

3 (12m 59s):
a classic journalism Trope is the view from nowhere a single journalist certain of their impartiality presenting information as fact, but there's always a view from somewhere to now offer that personal experience is a feature not a bug we all come with a set of biases. It's about taking personal responsibility not just as an individual not just as mean elephant a person but as a Best to report accurately and truthfully be a part of the conversation for change listen to course correction wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (13m 41s):
Have you guys had a chance to check out quippy yet quippy, you know Q UI bi the premium streaming service designed for your telephone loaded with movie quality shows you're gonna love and and they're all served up in episodes that are 10 minutes or less. I really do have a soft spot for the shorter stuff. If you're if you're wondering who these a-listers are. How about Chef Evan funky? You don't know him. I guess you haven't been eating pasta lately because he has the shape of pasta on clippy. How about Idris Elba and his buddy Ken Block, they trade extreme stunts in Elba versus block was getting the Rona one of their stunts tune into Quimby to find out how about Nicole Richie?

1 (14m 26s):
Remember her she reveals her rappers Alter Ego World in Nikki fresh. Yeah boy quippy is also alone with bite-sized alias. Chuckles from places like the BBC NBC Telemundo and 60 and 60 acquit be sized version of 60 Minutes. That'll keep you informed. You can watch that one with your dad clip. He's got it. All right from the comfort of your phone download the quippy app right now or go to quimbee.com to start your free 90-day trial.

1 (15m 7s):
Ezra we heard from Dorothy who's learning Italian on Duolingo and getting the hang of face time keeping her mind busy. Is this on us to figure out for ourselves or is there something like I don't know the government could do to help or what to be

3 (15m 19s):
fair. It is a hard thing for the government to do anything about this isn't one where you can easily imagine a policy that will solve it. We are right now in a tension between our Public Health policy of social distancing and Keep the economy going one of the ways. I've been trying to think about it. And I saw this going around on Twitter is I wish we had message this as physical distance and social

1 (15m 42s):
connection.

3 (15m 46s):
We need to be more physically distant from each other. But at the same time we need to be doing more not less to reach out. We need to be calling the people in our Lives who are vulnerable. We need to be setting up ways to call the people who don't have people in their lives to call them as some doctors mentioned to me when I was working on this piece by definition. Even the people who are most at risk are the people who are not going to have a social network that activates in this moment. They are the ones who don't have kids who are going to make sure to call them every day or twice a day. I've really up to the amount. I'm FaceTiming my son in with his grandparents and my parents but a lot of people don't have that. So what are we doing for them? That is something where I guess in theory the public sector but also Civil Society could activate right?

3 (16m 27s):
That's a good app people can work

1 (16m 28s):
on

3 (16m 31s):
and by the way, that's another thing that there's going to be. Digital divide among seniors here. I was talking to some seniors who are having real loneliness and isolation issues. I'm already from coronavirus, but the seniors I'm talking to her the once you're able to get in touch with Fox, right and they were saying that a great thing for them is they learned in recent years or at some point in the past how to use computers how to connect digitally. How do you Skype but older Americans are the ones who are least likely to be heavily online. And so for a lot of folks who haven't built a comfort and a confidence or even haven't bought the hardware that lets you have these kinds of digital connections. A lot of the ways. The rest of us are trying to manage this era of social distancing are not there for them.

3 (17m 14s):
They can't easily join a zoom with all of their friends because they don't know how so even just helping older people in your life set up and become comfortable with the digital Solutions here that are a partial replacement for in-person connection that can be really useful.

1 (17m 30s):
The beyond all the Zooms in the face times and the house party apps or whatever at issue here, especially with the elderly is that they may not have a social network to begin with right you're saying we need a totally new solution or app or something that could connect people who are free and willing to talk with those who are desperate for connection. Right? Like I don't know maybe like a chat roulette, but without all the

3 (17m 56s):
perviness that it's a good I like Chatroulette without yeah

1 (18m 0s):
like Chatroulette, but for helping older people combat loneliness does that app exist or do we need to make that

3 (18m 6s):
app? I think that is a good app idea of anybody's out there and wants to make it and and hopefully somebody else but I want to say that one of the ways coronavirus is an unbelievable asshole of a disease. Is it in addition to the direct death and sickness it is causing it is causing tremendous economic and social disruption. It is rending the very Fabric of our lives and something that I'm trying to add to the list of just what we are thinking about is the possibility if some of the more Grim cases are correct and we are social distancing and in pretty significant ways. Let's say through the end of the year. What are we going to do to connect

1 (18m 47s):
people but you and I spoke earlier about how you've been FaceTiming more with your parents so they can see your son their grandchild then like I got to say is a pathological keeper and touch. I've been pleasantly surprised to see Friends who've never called me or facetimed me calling and FaceTiming now and I just use that house party app last week for the first time and it was utter and total chaos, but I appreciated that a buddy organized and I don't know if we have any like actual data yet. But is there a chance that this, you know, cross-continental quarantine changes the way we communicate with our loved ones. I mean fewer memes and links and photos and maybe deeper conversation.

1 (19m 29s):
How we're really doing and how we're feeling

3 (19m 31s):
I do think so and I also think it's going to go in all different directions for people at all different times. So I want to know two things are a little subtle here. I spent some time with Vivek Murthy. We did a great episode on my podcast actually about loneliness and something that is in his book. And in other work is this idea that when people are lonely they are touchier. They experience more things as a slight right? They weren't called. They're going to be scared. They're going to be anxious or going to be Angry, right they're going to need somebody to talk to there will be a freaking out about something and then you call and now they're ranting at you and you just called to have a nice conversation and then on the other hand they're going to be people and I've definitely felt this myself. I'm in a house with I'm here with my wife and my wonderful but totally nuts one year old son and two dogs who are cooped up and not getting enough exercise and I'm not always the best version of myself either and so as much as I want to be out there connecting and trying to be a Good Samaritan on all this Sometimes I'll call somebody and I don't get the reaction.

3 (20m 31s):
I'm hoping for and I don't have some of the emotional bandwidth deal with it. And so I'm finding it really important to be mindful that good intentions aren't enough. You also have just have to recognize is going to be hard for everybody and we're gonna have to be really generous with each other and try to find the times when there's a space. You need to create space to do this kind of reaching out. Actually setting aside an hour a day. So you can like take 10 deep breaths first and then being a good place to talk to people is difficult. But in the same way as everything else in this crisis, if we have the bandwidth for it is something that we have to do in a pro-social way. It's a way we can come together and show solidarity.

3 (21m 12s):
We don't just need social distancing in a very deep way. We need a commitment to solidarity social solidarity.

1 (21m 19s):
Azra, thank you so much. Maybe we can have you back to talk about this once someone makes Chatroulette without the perviness.

3 (21m 25s):
Once they do that. I'm not going to come back because I'm to be on Chatroulette so much having great socially connecting conversations

1 (21m 32s):
ditto. As reclines aforementioned podcast is the Ezra Klein show. I'm Sean Rama's firm. This is today explained the team is working remotely in Maryland, Virginia and Washington DC but we still make time to check in every morning via Zoom. The theme Shapiro has big hair. I'm not a sari has noisy neighbors Jillian Weinberger has a spare room Bridget McCarthy has a Dan Charles know I'm hassenfeld is always wearing headphones and Halima shot is clearly a cat person. Liz Nelson joins us once a week. And Desmond joins her about once a month so far, but he's always welcome.

1 (22m 15s):
Cecilia lay is checking our fax from San Francisco. The Mysterious brake master cylinder makes music from outer space. I'm guessing we had extra help this week from Paul Mounds ijon dolor did us a few solids to today explained is part of the VOX media podcast

3 (22m 30s):
Network.