0 (0s):
Someone somewhere once said that New York City is the greatest city in the world. Someone somewhere else once said that the degree of civilization in a society can be judged by entering its prisons. And if we're judging New York City by Rikers Island, we've got some issues.

1 (21s):
Turned out to be the deadliest year for overdoses at Rikers. In a decade, 26

2 (25s):
People in custody, or very recently released from custody have died.

3 (29s):
You'll be beat up in B N Ss L and be dead, and nobody would know. That's scary.

0 (35s):
We've talked about the deplorable conditions at Rikers. Jails before on today, explained it was two years ago and people keep dying there, but now there's an opportunity for improvement. Today a federal judge hears arguments to strip control of Rikers from New York City, and its Mayor Eric Adams, a federal takeover of Rikers Island. Coming up on the show,

5 (1m 1s):
The way we talk about mental health is changing, and that's a good thing. But while the conversation has shifted, access and insurance haven't caught up.

6 (1m 11s):
We have research that shows mental health care is three to five times more likely to be treated by an out-of-network provider as opposed to an in-network provider.

5 (1m 23s):
So why is it so hard to get insurance to pay? That's next time on the weeds.

7 (1m 33s):
Hollywood writers and actors are still striking, and one of the things they're fighting against is AI swooping in and taking their jobs. But truth is AI is already all over Hollywood.

8 (1m 46s):
You know, Harrison Ford has come out and said that he not only is okay with the de aging process that was used in the most recent Indiana Jones, but he thought it was skillfully

7 (1m 58s):
Done. The fight over AI in TV and film. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast

0 (2m 17s):
Today explained Sean Ramas firm. We wanted to talk about Rikers and what it says about incarceration in America. So we reached out to Matt Katz, who covers the jails on the island for Gothamist.

9 (2m 28s):
So much Rikers news going on right now. Sean, there is a big hearing this week where a federal judge for the very first time will consider a federal takeover of the city jails in New York City, the second biggest jail system in the country, long plagued by a slew of problems, particularly violence.

3 (2m 50s):
It seems as if violence is the only thing that people respect. You could be beat up and be in that cell and be dead and nobody would know. That's scary.

9 (3m 1s):
In the last just few weeks, there's been a, just a growing call, more momentum for a takeover of the jail system. In other words, resting control of all decision making processes when it comes to incarceration, New York City and taking all that away from the mayor's administration and giving it to a all powerful federal receiver,

10 (3m 23s):
A federal monitor appointed to oversee the city's jails is urging a judge to hold the Department of Correction and its commissioner in contempt for failing to make safety improvements.

9 (3m 34s):
There's currently about 6,000 detainees. That number's been increasing, but there's been a longstanding humanitarian crisis going on in Rikers Island, which is where almost all of the jails in New York City are. It's really accelerated over the last several weeks and months.

11 (3m 50s):
The Federal Monitor who oversees Rikers Island, is now criticizing in court correction Commissioner Lewis Molina over the handling of five incidents in city jails. In May five incidents this month alone that the monitor says a representative of a larger trend,

0 (4m 9s):
Do we know what a takeover would entail? we

9 (4m 12s):
Don't know exactly. We know, generally speaking what those who want to take over, say a federal receiver, which would be the the name of this all powerful figure who takes over for the on behalf of the feds, we know what they might be able to do so they can spend the billions of dollars the corrections department has and spend it as they see fit. They can hire and fire staff and likely be able to avoid, you know, union contracts that might restrict the firing of some people. They might be able to appoint new leaders of the jails without going through some of the long standing city bureaucracy and city work rules that, you know, limit who you can hire.

9 (4m 55s):
They, they also might be able to do smaller things. I reported a few weeks ago that for unclear reasons, the correction department is spending almost a hundred thousand dollars on submachine guns. What I I, yeah, I found the order for this in this city record. And that is strange in large part because you're not even allowed to have a gun working at Rikers Island. So, you know, theoretically a federal receiver could say, you know what, we're not spending $90,000 in high powered sub machine guns. For example, the, the correction department just cut $17 million in job training and social services for people at Rikers. So a federal receiver could say, you know what? We're gonna spend city tax dollars on this thing that city officials before didn't wanna spend money on.

9 (5m 40s):
I think when I hear the argument made for a receiver, I hear a difference in the decision making process for how big decisions for how the gels are run are made and also the spending processes. And the the question, though, of course, is whether it changes the, the culture of Rikers Island, but I think we would see some high level changes.

0 (6m 4s):
Let's talk about how we got here. I mean, we covered the issues that Rikers about two years ago on this show, when it seemed like things couldn't get any worse.

12 (6m 16s):
The chief medical officer on Rikers wrote a letter a couple weeks ago to the city council saying in effect that the city was no longer able to guarantee the safety of, of the people it was holding there and basically calling it a, a humanitarian crisis that needed dramatic action to resolve.

0 (6m 34s):
But they sound like they even got worse from there. When exactly, do the problems on Rikers Island begin? Is it when they put a jail there?

9 (6m 44s):
You talk to some people and They say, Rikers Island is just a reflection of the mass incarceration problem that the United States has had for, for, for decades. But there have been longstanding issues since the gels have operated there. I mean, it is a massive complex, it's on a island that is only accessible by, by a bridge. There's difficulties, you know, moving people through the court system, getting people to court. So people languish there for longer than they necessarily need to remember. Almost everybody there has not been convicted of a crime. They're all just facing charges and they're awaiting their hearings.

9 (7m 25s):
Takes a long time to get to the infirmary. It takes a long time for officers to respond to emergencies. Did

13 (7m 34s):
You get medical care when you needed it?

14 (7m 36s):
Barely. It was a, a incident where I had needed stitches and I did not receive stitches.

9 (7m 40s):
There's issues with the physical plant and then, you know, there's been accelerated problems in recent years, particularly during C O V I D.

15 (7m 47s):
It, it is in the middle of a pandemic. We saw people that didn't have access to showers, didn't have access to food, didn't have access to P p E or clean clothes.

9 (7m 56s):
And then last year was the highest death rate at Rikers in More than a quarter century.

2 (8m 2s):
Deaths on Rikers Island had become a common occurrence in 2021 and 20 22, 26 people in custody or very recently released from custody have died

9 (8m 14s):
Every few weeks. We're hearing about another death at Rikers Island from a range of things, you know, medical issues and officers either not taking somebody to the infirmary, not responding to a medical incident when somebody was having one. There's been an issue with, with fentanyl getting into the jails and people overdosing. Turned out

1 (8m 34s):
To be the deadliest year for overdoses at Rikers in a decade, in no small part because of fentanyl.

16 (8m 39s):
And the big question, how are the daily deadly drugs even getting into the jail?

9 (8m 44s):
And there's been suicides. Elected

17 (8m 46s):
Officials are speaking out after an unannounced visit to Rikers Island. It comes after another inmate committed suicide over the weekend

9 (8m 54s):
And march. you know, the deaths really became something that I think the, the public could pay attention to more so than, you know, just another slashing or stabbing in the jails. Hundreds,

18 (9m 6s):
Honor the 18 lives that were lost while in custody behind bars at Rikers this year.

9 (9m 10s):
This was something that the, the media in New York and the politicians in New York started talking about more frequently and more aggressively. And I think that's really what led us up to this point where there's consideration of a total takeover of the jails. There's been a federal monitor who was appointed almost eight years ago to oversee Rikers Island. And I have read way too many of the monitor's, very, very long reports. And through the years, the monitor has seemed to go out of his way to, you know, give, give the city as much credit as you can.

9 (9m 53s):
Things are tough there, but the city's trying. The city says they're gonna implement this reform. I think that's going to be good. The tone of the monitor, whose name is Steve Martin changed entirely this spring and summer. Mayor Eric Adams had implemented an action plan to reform the city's jails a year ago, and the monitor in This summer said that the action plan had essentially failed.

19 (10m 18s):
The pace of reform has stagnated instead of accelerated in a number of key areas, meaning that there has been no meaningful relief for people in custody or staff from the violence and the unnecessary and excessive use of force.

9 (10m 33s):
He said that the correction department stopped giving him information that they appeared to be hiding information, including about deaths and what led to deaths and, and not reporting deaths promptly. He noted that every safety and violence indicator is substantially higher from when the monitor was installed eight years ago. Officer's use of force skyrocketed 127%. The number of people sustaining serious injuries skyrocketed from 74 in 2016 to 434 last year. These are people sustaining serious injuries because of violence in the jails. Once he came out and made these allegations, he also started describing incidents in the jails that are even shocking for Riker standards.

9 (11m 20s):
He described five violent incidents that left two detainees dead, one paralyzed, one hospitalized in critical condition with fractured ribs. And that man was left naked and alone for at least three hours after he was assaulted, officers basically ignored him. He described an incident in which a detainees ran out of an elevator at Rikers Island. So staff took him down, he was bleeding, they put him in rear cuffs and leg restraints. And then while being held by the staff, his head banged on two things that, that were like on the ground and the concrete floor, and that paralyzed him from the neck down. There was an incident in which a man died by suicide and D o C, the Department of Correction had not reported the incident to the monitor, which they're required to do.

9 (12m 7s):
Also, an incident in which the city had said somebody had a pre-existing medical condition and died of a, some sort of heart failure. It turned out he had actually died of a fractured skull, which calls into question what led to the fractured skull, of course. And then finally there was a detainee in his eighties considered cognitively impaired, didn't understand English. His arms were, were pulled and twisted after he refused to go into a holding pen, rear cuffed and locked in a cell alone without a toilet for four hours and ended up in the I C U. This was literally just a snapshot of a couple of weeks on Rikers Island and the Federal Monitor who's been there for eight years had enough.

19 (12m 54s):
These incidents raise serious concerns about the management of individuals in new admission intake and the department's ability and commitment to ensure safety and to provide adequate supervision, timely medical care, and accurate reporting.

0 (13m 8s):
Are people in New York City confident that bringing in the federal government can fix Rikers?

9 (13m 13s):
I think that probably depends on how people feel about the Mayor. If people are supportive of Mayor Adams and think that he's somebody who knows how to get things done, then they probably don't want a federal receiver.

20 (13m 26s):
I am the best person in this administration to finally turn around the Department of Correction.

9 (13m 34s):
But I think many New Yorkers have heard too many horror stories from Rikers Island for too many decades, that they would like somebody with more power to come in and fix things. For many people, it's a stain on the city, right? I mean, you have what is supposed to be a, a world-class city, and you have a a, a physically decrepit and by humanitarian standards, a absolutely substandard jail system.

0 (14m 5s):
Is there a day you think, where New Yorkers will no longer need to hear about humanitarian crises and, and suicides and, and brutal beatings and deaths at this jail where most of the incarcerated people haven't even yet been tried for a crime

9 (14m 24s):
That's supposed to happen four years from now? Because city law mandates that Rikers Island actually closed in 2027, but the current Mayor has question whether that actually can happen by 2027.

0 (14m 43s):
We are gonna take a quick break and we got more with Matt Katz in a minute on today. Explain

7 (15m 0s):
Basically the more I talk through this with y'all, the more I am perplexed. I do not know.

21 (15m 8s):
This week on Unexplainable, we're bringing you a new episode of our game show, unexplainable or not, and we've got three potential mysteries. One

7 (15m 18s):
Oh

21 (15m 20s):
Mystery two

7 (15m 22s):
Oh, that's so cute.

21 (15m 23s):
And Mystery three

7 (15m 25s):
Oh, my God stop. I should have been a scientist.

21 (15m 30s):
Our guest this week is Sam Sanders, host of Vultures Intuit podcast.

7 (15m 34s):
I'm good at some things. I'm not particularly good at science things, but I love to talk.

21 (15m 42s):
Sam's gonna try to guess which of these mysteries are still mysteries and which one has actually recently been solved.

7 (15m 50s):
I'm scared, I don't know if I'm right or wrong

21 (15m 52s):
To find out. Follow unexplainable for new episodes every Wednesday.

NetSuite (15m 59s):
Support For today explain comes from NetSuite. NetSuite believes it's almost Impossible to make great decisions with bad information, especially if you're running a business that generates millions of dollars of revenue. Are you? That's fantastic. Streamlining your operation and ensuring that your next move is successful requires much More than just know-how and that fake confidence NetSuite by Oracle is a cloud-based business software solution that can deliver the visibility and data you need to make better decisions. Right now, NetSuite is offering new users full access and full implementation of their service with no payments and no interest for six months. That means you'll get access to everything NetSuite offers, tools to help reduce manual processes, boost efficiency, build forecasts, increase productivity, no cost, six months. If you happen to have been sizing up NetSuite to make the switch, then you know this deal is unprecedented. No interest, no payments. You can take advantage of this special financing offer by going to NetSuite dot com slash explained NetSuite dot com slash explained. To get the visibility and control you need to weather any storm NetSuite dot com slash explained.

23 (17m 8s):
Listen to Elvis might be cooling, you might be styling, but you won't be smiling. Allen

21 (17m 18s):
Today

0 (17m 19s):
Explained his back with Matt Katz of W N Y C radio in New York City and Gothamist. Matt, you mentioned that all these problems at Rikers could one day conclude with Rikers shutting down in 2027. How did that plan come to be?

9 (17m 35s):
The plan came to be under the previous Mayor Mayor de Blassio several years ago, and the city council to make this happen to close Rikers by 2027 and replace them with these four smaller jails

22 (17m 46s):
In Manhattan, Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens.

24 (17m 49s):
Each facility would be in close proximity to the courthouse. The goal is to create a safer alternative to Rikers Island and have inmates closer to their families and attorneys

9 (17m 59s):
Nearly. But now there's a lot of questions about what, whether that actually can happen because under the current Mayor, there's been more arrests, there's been a more aggressive law enforcement, and there are now More than 6,000 people in the city jails. And in order to close Rikers, the jail population has to be almost half of that because the four new facilities to replace Rikers can only hold about 3,400 people. So it is unclear how this is going to happen.

0 (18m 31s):
So New York approves a plan to shut down Rikers, and now it looks like New York City might not be able to fulfill its own plan to shut down Rikers. What happens if the city fails here?

9 (18m 42s):
It's a potential looming mess. The possibility of a federal takeover is interesting in that it might both give power to somebody who can make some changes necessary in order to close Rikers, but it also might mean that there's no other authority to appeal to if Rikers doesn't close, right? I mean, if there's a federal receiver who's running the place and there's too many people to incarcerate in those four smaller jails, then what can be done? So

0 (19m 16s):
It, it sounds like you're kind of doomed either way. You're doomed to keep this jail open or to move people to other jails and worsen conditions there. And you have a humanitarian crisis either way

9 (19m 30s):
Or you, you change your policies toward incarceration. More than 50% of people at Rikers Island Health retrial are diagnosed with a mental illness and about a quarter have a serious mental illness. And you hear activists, reformers say that the city and state for less money could provide, for example, supportive housing for certain mentally ill alleged offenders. So supportive housing, meaning you're provided a place to live, a safe place to live and services in conjunction with your your home.

9 (20m 12s):
So drug rehabilitation services, mental health counseling assistance, getting public assistance, these are ideas in order to dramatically reduce the population of Rikers. If 50% are suffering from mental illness, is a jail the right place for them? Is that what's best for public safety? These are important questions. Or is a jail only gonna make them worse and cycle them out of the system back onto the streets where they are, are less able to take care of themselves and to not pose a threat to others?

0 (20m 49s):
You're saying the best option on the table here right now, because the New York City penal system is stuck between a rock and a hard place, is to rethink incarceration altogether. Either

9 (21m 2s):
Rethink incarceration altogether or build more and more jails to hold the more and more people that are being held there,

0 (21m 12s):
Which feels more likely to you.

9 (21m 14s):
The former option in terms of like finding a new way of, of dealing with people who are suffering from mental illness, who have contact with the criminal justice system, that's a lot harder and requires a lot more buy-in from the a wide swath of the political establishment. And right now, the current Mayor, that's just not his philosophical approach. you know, he's a former N Y P D police officer who sees jails as a place to hold dangerous people in order to prevent them from committing crimes on the street. But you know, reformers point to the things that happen every day at Rikers Island saying that, you know, public safety, it's also the safety of the individuals who have not been convicted of crimes that are held in these jails every day.

9 (21m 57s):
I mean, just in the last few days as I'm talking to you, the Federal Monitor issued one of his many reports and described a situation where Rikers officers were overheard on body-worn cameras, quote, bragging about beating up a detainee who was being held in a mental observation unit. And the officers heard saying, I'm gonna fuck you up again. Officer

19 (22m 19s):
Number one then exited the day room and continued to stand near the person in custody and verbally antagonized him on and off for over 10 minutes before the individual was removed from the area.

9 (22m 31s):
Reformers would say, that person's only gonna cycle back through the system and that's not gonna make anybody safe. So a whole rethinking of how we approach incarceration is what people say is called for here, but it is politically a hell of a lot harder.

0 (22m 46s):
But there's no chance Mayor Eric, Adams wants to rethink incarceration in New York City right now. Is there a chance that this federal takeover of Rikers Island could lead to reforms?

9 (23m 0s):
There's a chance, but it's a gonna take a while to get there. We are now having hearings to consider this, but a decision on appointing a federal receiver wouldn't happen earliest next year. And then there will likely be legal challenges, particularly from the correction officers union who see a such takeover as a threat to their members and to their sway over the correction department and getting work rules in their members' favor. So let's say a federal receiver comes in in a year and starts making changes, but can the federal receiver make changes to who gets incarcerated?

9 (23m 44s):
Unlikely. It's such a process would have to happen in conjunction with the courts and the city council. And so you, you can see an improvement, I think, under a federal receiver, potentially in terms of the conditions at Rutgers Island. But whether or not a federal receiver can move us closer to lowering the population of detainees there in order to close the place by 2027, that's gonna be very tough and require a lot of other forces in conjunction with federal takeover. There is no question that it's not just detainees who were traumatized at Rikers Island, but the people who work there, the officers who tell us they get spit on and sexually assaulted and slashed the face with knives and shivs on a daily basis, they're also traumatized.

9 (24m 48s):
The communities that the detainees leave for months and years on end, their families, their children are traumatized. And then, you know, people walking through the bodega and seeing another headline of another death on the cover of the New York Deli News, they're getting some of that trauma downstream too. I mean, this is how the richest country on earth deals with its most difficult and vulnerable people and that I don't think that's healthy for anybody, particularly the individuals involved.

9 (25m 31s):
But also for the rest of us,

0 (25m 41s):
Matt Katz reports on incarceration, public safety, and Rikers Island for Gothamist and W N Y C Public Radio in New York City. You can find his reporting at Gothamist dot com. Our show today was produced by CI Petros. She had help from Matthew Collette, Amina Alade, Laura Bullard, Patrick Boyd, and New York City's finest. David Herman. And thanks to Darren Mack from the Freedom Agenda for his help as well. This is today's explain.