0 (1s):
It, it was just literally a nightmare. One minute you are leading a normal life, looking forward to doing normal, mundane things, going to work, you know, going about your business. And then the next day, literally the sky just feels like it's falling.

1 (15s):
Shama Madiba is trapped in Cartoon Sudan where two military leaders are fighting for control.

0 (21s):
Constant, constant bombing, shelling, shooting. It just turned into a mad town in like a blink of an eye. You went to sleep and it was calm and you woke up and it was a mad

1 (30s):
House, A mad house now. But Sudan seemed really close to being a democracy in 2019. Sudanese people throughout a vicious dictator Bashir two years later, two general stage de coup kind of ending everyone's hopes for democracy. Now those two generals are fighting each other in the streets. Also, several countries that are not Sudan have involved themselves in Sudan's New War. This is every bit as Byzantine as it sounds, and we're gonna explain it. Coming up on today explained, it's today explained.

1 (1m 11s):
I'm Noel King. The internet is going in and out in Sudan. It's almost impossible to reach anyone there for any extended period of time, and so we called Naima Elger. She is CNN's chief international correspondent and she's Sudanese. She has family in Sudan, and she's covered the country for many, many years.

3 (1m 28s):
In essence, this is a fight for dominance between the head of the Army General Abdel and the head of a paramilitary force Commander Hamed Hamdan, also known as Hamdi. They were earth while rivals that were brought together under Bashir, the former dictator of Sudan.

4 (1m 48s):
Bohan says he was one of the military figures who told Bashir to step down.

3 (1m 52s):
General Boham became the head of the transitional Sovereign Council that was supposed to be part of a transition to democracy for the people of Sudan. His

4 (2m 1s):
Opponents say he's instead put the military firmly in charge.

3 (2m 5s):
Commander Dedi became his deputy.

5 (2m 8s):
Much of Hamedi power is derived from his dreaded r rsf paramilitary, which he formed after taking up arms in the war in Dar four.

7 (2m 19s):
I am a simple, better man who grew up on the sidelines of Sudan, didn't get anything from my country except violence.

2 (2m 30s):
The

3 (2m 31s):
Two military powers joined forces to overthrow their civilian partners in government, and that's kind of been this stalemate since October, 2021. They have been under a huge degree of international pressure in the last seven or eight months to, to do a deal, to go back to the negotiating table and to restart this stillbirth democratic process for the, for the people of Sudan. But at the heart of this current conflict between them is who gets to be that senior partner in any partnership with the civilian powers in Sudan. So the Army wants, the rapid support force is given that it is a paramilitary group.

3 (3m 11s):
It is a militia and an auxiliary force all the way back to the dark days of the, the dad for conflict. An auxiliary force to the Sudanese army to come under the commander of the Sudanese army. The rapid support forces in Hamdi have bigger aspirations and bigger ambitions, and they want to be a standalone force, essentially setting up the rapid support force as equivalent to the naval forces, the army, the intelligence forces, and essentially setting up Himi to move forward with whatever future ambition he has. That's where the rivalry stems from.

1 (3m 46s):
Why and how did they begin fighting? I'm, I'm looking at Harum, and this is urban warfare. These two men have to know how catastrophic this is. W why not work it out behind closed doors? Well,

3 (3m 57s):
We saw very early on actually after the alster of Bashir that Hamdi's, R S f, the Rapid support forces came into Harton. That was immediately what happened, that they moved their forces. We did a, a heat map very early on in, in, in this recent fighting to show where the conflict was kind of hottest inside the Capitol. And you could see that it was in civilian neighborhoods, and it was because that is where the R S F had garrisoned themselves. So they essentially embedded the enmeshed themselves in the civilian infrastructure, the architecture of these neighborhoods where people live, you know, clearly ahead of a day like this, where if and when it becomes untenable in their relationship with the, with the army or this, their aspirations to be the dominant partner in Sudan become too difficult to quash that then you are essentially fighting in neighborhoods.

3 (4m 55s):
You're, you, you are fighting in and around civilian homes.

1 (4m 58s):
What are you hearing from civilians?

3 (5m 0s):
It's terrifying. It's absolutely terrifying. A lot of these neighborhoods, for instance, tu is right in the center of Harum. It's one of the most affluent oldest neighborhoods in in, in Harton and RSF offices, RSF senior offices bought houses. They bought a lot of expensive real estate. So you have what is one of the most shihi neighborhoods in Harton and in Sudan that has become this site of street by street fighting. I spoke to one of my cousins and she said that she was looking through the window and she could see RSF fighters.

3 (5m 40s):
People had been told that they had to vacate their homes. My my other cousins were sheltering on the ground with their children. Bullets were, were flying into people's front yards. I mean, when, when they described to you street by street warfare, I think, I think almost in our heads, it it's very kind of Hollywood. It's very kind of computer game. And you imagine people sheltering behind their high walls and then you know, these, these armed men going at it. But actually there, there is no protection when they're street by street fighting. You are, you are caught in the gunfire. You are caught in the, in the aerial bombardment. An an artillery shell fell the house behind us. You know, there is nothing to, to really hide behind in these kind of situations.

1 (6m 25s):
These are two military men fighting it out over a city, over a country. Does either of these men have the upper hand militarily? It's

3 (6m 34s):
Currently very difficult to say, you know, it, it's been claim and counterclaim. What we do know is just in terms of the makeup of their forces, why this has been so protracted. Although on paper, the military, the, you know, there's no official kind of numbers for how big sudan's armed forces are, but they're 210, 220,000 strong. But during that four, and and for instance, during the conflict in Chad, which Sudan was involved with the RSF acted essentially as a de facto infantry for the Sudanese army. They are better trained, better equipped. Jimi has paid for Vagner to train his man. He has very sophisticated weaponry. It's very difficult to call a winner here because this is also the R S F A A force that is much more battle hardened, that was implicated in horrific human rights violations in Dfor and in other parts of of Sudan.

3 (7m 26s):
And so they're not bound by the same laws of engagement that whatever we think of the Sudanese army and its involvement with the 30 year dictators of Bashir or its involvement. More recently in partnership with the R S F, they still trained as a professional. Army offices still have to study at the Defense College, right? There are still certain confines that constrain them that do not constrain the R S F.

1 (7m 52s):
You've mentioned the Wagner group a couple of times for people who might not know what is the Vogner group or the Wagner group? So

3 (7m 58s):
I pronounce it Wagner because the, the neo-Nazi who founded it was inspired by the composer Wagner's professed Nazi sympathy. So it gives you a sense of who they are, even just by telling that little story, right? Yes, they are a Russian proxy, militia heavily involved. I in Russia's fighting in Ukraine and for years have essentially acted as this forward vanguard of Russia's push into Africa, their vanguard in, in the Central African Republic,

8 (8m 30s):
Alongside the army of the Central African Republic, we can now see white men with masks as per defense agreement with Moscow, thousands of Russian soldiers arrived in the Central African Republic mercenaries working for the Wagner Group.

3 (8m 44s):
They were involved with the exploitation of Sudanese gold. We had an investigation last year into Wagner's exploitation of Sudan's gold to fund Russia's war in Ukraine. And it was done via the relationship with Jimi and the R S F, with senior armed forces officers. Do you blame Russia for the death of democracy here in Sudan?

9 (9m 5s):
Definitely. Russia carries the majority of the blame for the still birthing of Sudan's democracy.

3 (9m 11s):
The main man that we were able to identify as Putin's man, Russia's man, Wagner's man in Sudan was edi. And, and we see that kind of malevolence that's being spread not just in Sudan, but across Africa via Vagner that allows Putin and, and Russian officialdom to essentially kind of keep their hands clean and, and profess that they stand at a, at a distance. It hasn't really worked in terms of sheltering them from, from sanctions. Vagner and Prion and their arm in Sudan was sanctioned by the us It was also recently sanctioned after our investigation by the European Council. So it's a very thin veil of subterfuge.

1 (9m 54s):
Wagner is a, a Russia proxy. Who else is involved here? Which other countries are either in Sudan right now or watching Sudan, maybe with the intent of going in or sending their own proxies.

3 (10m 5s):
Hamdi has set himself up or as an individual statesman. So he travels back and forth to the Emirates. He travels back and forth to Russia. Parallel to that is Bohan and the Sudanese Army's relationship with Saudi Arabia. They were the main forces on the Saudi side of the Saudi Emirati coalition. So you have these Gulf powerhouses on either side. You have Egypt looking on it is, even as I'm saying it, it is such a, a morass of, of regional and even global power place. What brought us to this place as well is the Gulf powerhouses supporting their preferred strongman in terms of the ways that EDI and Bhan were able to carry out that countercoup against the will of the Sudanese people.

3 (10m 58s):
But fundamentally, the responsibility falls on the military for partnering with Hamedi. It falls on the international community and in the United States specifically because so many people within the civilian movement have said to us that they were ringing alarm bells, that they were contacting the State department for months, telling them that they were concerned that this conflict, this impasse between the R S F and the Army over who got to be the big boy at the big table, was going to spill over into bloodshed on the streets of Sudan. And the US did not move quickly enough to exert sufficient pressure.

3 (11m 38s):
And so these same international powers, the United States included, who are, who have rushed to evacuate their diplomatic personnel, are the same international powers who did not act and are currently not acting in the kind of way that Sudan needs them

2 (11m 55s):
To.

1 (12m 9s):
Before the fighting in Sudan started, an editor at The Economist began looking into the shape that wars are taking these days, the complexity, the foreign involvement, the death tolls, and he thinks that Sudan is one piece in a much bigger story about a new kind of war that's coming up.

2 (12m 50s):
Fox Creative,

10 (12m 52s):
This is advertiser content brought to you by too good, too good cares about making great tasting lower sugar products that you can find in the yogurt aisle. They also care about combating food waste and food insecurity, which are bigger problems than you might realize. The

11 (13m 6s):
US averages around 130 billion pounds of food waste per year. That's 30 to 40% of the total food supply that we produce in the country. My name is Caroline Huong and I am the communications and marketing manager with We Don't Waste in Denver. We recover good nutritious food from local businesses and we distribute it to nonprofits who have free food programs.

10 (13m 32s):
Two good supports. Organizations like we don't waste to help keep healthy edible food out of landfills and reduce food insecurity.

11 (13m 39s):
We don't waste this relationship with Two Good began back in 2020 and since then, they've actually become the large supporter in our organization's history. With two good support, we've been able to grow up to 20 million servings a year consistently.

10 (13m 54s):
So every time you buy two good, you're not only doing good by you, but you're also helping to do good by others. To

11 (13m 59s):
Learn more, visit two good yogurt.com/one cup Less Hunger.

12 (14m 5s):
Hi, I'm Neila Patel, editor and chief of the Verge and host of Decoder, a podcast about big ideas and other problems. Recently I spoke with Chris Vest, the CEO of CK about competing with Twitter with its new notes feature. And apparently going head-to-head with Elon Musk is not half as difficult as answering questions about content moderation. You have to figure out should we allow overt racism on sub. You have to figure that out.

13 (14m 30s):
No, I'm not gonna engage in speculation, you know, specific, would you allow this or that content question? You know, this

12 (14m 37s):
Is a very

13 (14m 38s):
Bad

12 (14m 38s):
Response to this question, right? You're, you're aware that you've, you've blundered into this. You should just say no and I'm, I'm wondering what's keeping you from just saying no,

13 (14m 47s):
I have a blanket. I don't think it's useful to get into, like, would you allow this or that thing on

12 (14m 54s):
That whole episode of Decoder is up now, it's really interesting. You can get it in Apple Podcast, Spotify or wherever you listen to podcasts.

1 (15m 4s):
It's today explained. Robert Guest is a deputy editor at The Economist and he recently wrote that what's happening in Sudan is not just happening in Sudan. Complex conflicts with many countries involved and no end in sight have become more common. He writes, and globally we might be moving backward. Robert looked into why that is. Well

15 (15m 24s):
The big problem is that wars are getting longer than they used to be. So the average ongoing conflict in the mid 1980s had been raging for about 13 years. By 2021, that figure had risen to 20. You can look at what's going on in Sudan as an outbreak of a fresh civil war, or you can say it's kind of a continuation of on and off war that they've had since independence in 1956.

1 (15m 50s):
It's very difficult to pin down a single big picture takeaway on what's happening with civil conflicts across the world. But Robert wrote that the number of these conflicts is increasing and that they're getting longer and that they're getting worse. I asked him why they're getting worse.

15 (16m 4s):
There's a few big reasons that we've identified. One is complexity including foreign meddling and others are a culture of impunity and criminality. Another is climate change and a final one is religious extremism. Alright,

1 (16m 18s):
So let's walk through these one by one. Starting with foreign meddling.

15 (16m 22s):
Back in 1991, at the end of the Cold War, only 4% of civil wars in the world involved significant foreign forces. But by 2021, that had risen 12 fold to 48%.

14 (16m 35s):
The war in Yemen is a few years shy of a decade, an internal conflict that intensified when Saudi Arabia invaded.

15 (16m 44s):
And we're also seeing that even when foreign forces aren't involved, conflicts are getting more complex, there are more belligerent groups involved, and that means it's harder to make peace because you don't just have to come up with a compromise at the end that's satisfying to two groups. You have to satisfy all of them. And if even one of them doesn't like it, they can go back to fighting. You

1 (17m 4s):
Also write about what you call a culture of impunity and criminality. What do you mean by that?

15 (17m 9s):
Firstly, it's that global norms are eroding. So when you see Russia, a, a permanent member of the UN Security Council, brazenly violating the UN's founding charter by invading Ukraine, kidnapping children, that sends out a very strong signal that to a lot of people, to a lot of powers, important powers in the world might make right and that emboldens smaller bullies elsewhere. But there's also the financial incentives that you're seeing in conflict. Most civil conflicts are taking place in very corrupt countries where control of government is an opportunity for individuals to get very rich, and that means it's something they'll fight for, for it, something that they will kill for.

15 (17m 51s):
That's very clearly part of what's going on in Sudan. And finally you're seeing that for the soldiers involved, very often they have very few good job opportunities other than fighting. And fighting is, is one of the most lucrative ones. If, if you've got a gun, you can take things, you can take people's cattle, you can rape people. There's a, an incentive to keep fighting. That comes from the fact that for many of the young men doing it, it is a, a more lucrative lifestyle than any other they can imagine.

1 (18m 21s):
As I was reading your piece, I thought about Liberia, civil war,

16 (18m 24s):
The siege of Monrovia was brutal. Scores of Taylor's young boys died crossing the swamps leading into the city.

1 (18m 32s):
I thought about Dar four where I worked.

17 (18m 34s):
The Rebel Sudan Liberation Army says seven civilians were killed when Sudanese military forces used helicopters to raid Dar four villages.

1 (18m 43s):
I thought about Democratic Republic of Congo, where I've also worked

17 (18m 45s):
In late August dissident General Lauren Nanda and the Congolese Army clashed in towns and villages across North Kivu province. Was

1 (18m 54s):
There ever really a global norm?

15 (18m 56s):
Was there ever a global norm that everyone abided by all the time? No, of course not. But was there a period before this decade when by and large more countries and more actors did abide by it? Yes, I think there was, I mean, just the, the numbers of of how many more people are fleeing their homes, how many more people are getting killed and how little respect actual superpowers are paying to, to global norms suggests that something has shifted. I mean, it's not, it's not something you can measure very easily, but I think there has been a shift. So when the Civil War broke out in Liberia, there were, you know, a number of actors there who were cl very clearly not abiding by any kind of norms at all.

15 (19m 38s):
But that war was ended because the, the kind of intervention that you got from the outside was essentially America and then subsequently n peacekeeping saying, no, you can't do this, it's time to stop. The

18 (19m 51s):
Pleas of ordinary librarian were finally answered. In August, 2003 when troops from the international community arrived to oust Charles Taylor. By October, a massive un peacekeeping mission was in place and a peace accord signed.

15 (20m 6s):
We're not seeing that at the moment. We're in an age where the attempts to make peace in Congo are much weaker where America has pulled out of Afghanistan and let it to fall apart. I mean, the biggest violation clearly is Vladimir Putin trying to, you know, invade and seize the territory of another sovereign country. That's something we really haven't seen very much of since World War ii. Tell me

1 (20m 31s):
About how climate change is playing into this.

15 (20m 34s):
So climate change doesn't cause wars, but it does make them more likely. So the most obvious way is the weather gets worse, gets drier, you lose rain. Farmers find that they can't keep their cattle alive or they can't grow their crops and so they move and quite often they move in quite large numbers into areas that are traditionally belong to other ethnic groups who may not be very friendly towards them. That can lead to a lot of clashes. One NGO looked at just one region within one country. In the Sahel it was Marley and they found 70 conflicts in that area, not, and this is not people, you know, arguing with each other on Twitter.

15 (21m 14s):
This is people killing each other, 70 conflicts mostly over land, grazing rights, water, those kinds of things. Without the

19 (21m 22s):
Presence of state authorities, all tensions between farmers and herds are resurfacing.

20 (21m 28s):
When animals are left to roam, disputes often erupt over grazing areas. There's constant conflict.

15 (21m 33s):
So that creates a, a base level of instability, a base level of men with guns running around. And that creates an opportunity for rebel forces to collect them together. And particularly in the Sahel for Jihadists,

21 (21m 47s):
France and its European allies are fighting a war in Mali, the country is the epicenter of jihadist terror in the Sahel region,

1 (21m 56s):
This is where religious extremism plays in.

15 (21m 59s):
Yes. So since the the Arab Spring, you've seen a flowering, if that's the right word, of ultra extreme jihadist groups. Principally. So you have the ones that are affiliates of Al QA and then later the ones that are affiliates of Islamic State and they're more or less competing to see who can make the bolder claims about, you know, setting up a a, a new kingdom of justice about overthrowing the, the, the states that exist, which are often quite, quite predatory states. They've created this extraordinary degree of instability right across parts of Africa. Also the Middle East, you're seeing cos in a lot of places, lot of these countries are becoming ungovernable.

15 (22m 44s):
You look at Burkina Faso,

22 (22m 45s):
The African nation of Burkina Faso has had another shakeup in its government because the military leader who took power in a coup earlier this year has now himself been ousted in a second

15 (22m 57s):
Coup. The government probably controls no more than about 40% of the country.

22 (23m 2s):
I guess he can't complain, right? Yeah. What is he gonna say? What give you the idea that you could just, oh, oh yeah.

1 (23m 13s):
What are some of the things that have to be done if we want to get out of these devastating cyclical conflicts?

15 (23m 19s):
There's a lot of reasonably effective ideas for how to end wars. You, you find a respected mediator. You, you start unofficial talks long before the belligerence are prepared to meet publicly that worked in Northern Ireland and, and South Africa. You include more women and civil society groups in the peace process. We've seen in, in places where that's happened, the peace is more likely to stick. Of course, it's very hard to tease out cause and effect there. I mean, is that because the kinds of belligerence who include women in civil society groups in peace talks are less, less brutal and intransigent than the ones who don't. It's a little bit hard to say, but certainly that does help get more voices involved.

1 (24m 1s):
Do you see any of this happening in Sudan right now?

15 (24m 4s):
Sudan is very confused right now. They've had various attempts at Trus, none of which have worked the two guys in charge. It's a zero sum problem for them. They're not thinking what's good for the country. They're both thinking, how do I remain alive and rich? And they both decided that the answer to that is that they should be in charge of the whole country.

1 (24m 29s):
Miles. Brian produced today's show and Matthew Collette edited fact checking was a team effort led by Laura Bullard, Michael Rayfield and Paul Robert Mosey, engineered, I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.