0 (1s):
What if you waited all week for a big get together on Friday, you hopped on a plane first thing in the morning, touchdown, put on your best fit, arrive, and then boom, literally one of the worst people in the world walks into the room. You might have been at the Arab League Summit in Saudi Arabia where Bashar al-Assad made his big return on Friday.

3 (26s):
It's with pleasure today that Dr. Bashar Al-Assad, the president of Syria, is present here as the League of Arab States has handed down a resolution, allowing Syria to resume involvement in our meetings. And we hope, and

0 (39s):
It's not just the Arab League, he's been invited to COP 28 in Dubai later this year. The rehabilitation of Syria's war criminal chemical weapon using president coming up on today, explained

4 (1m 1s):
Right now. We rely a lot on Google to find out about pop culture.

5 (1m 5s):
You think about how many entertainment publications spend hours of productive time knowing that people are gonna search for the post credit scene of a Marvel movie, knowing that people are desperate to find out who Taylor is dating today, right? Like, and all of that stuff is search demand driven.

4 (1m 24s):
But what happens once AI replaces search, how AI might change pop culture as we know it. This week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast

0 (1m 44s):
Today explained featuring Lena Kib. She's the director of the SOAs Middle East Institute in London. It's a think tank affiliated with the University of London. We asked her how big a deal it was that the Arab League welcomed back Bashar AASA on Friday.

6 (2m 1s):
Being invited to the Arab Summit is a big deal for Bashar Asad because this is a milestone about legitimacy and recognition for him.

7 (2m 11s):
Stepping off a plane in Jetta, Bashar AAD was greeted with handshakes and smiles once a pariah among the Arab League, the 22 member countries are welcoming the Syrian president back.

6 (2m 23s):
You have a president who had been isolated in the international community, isolated in the Arab world, and finally he is back in the Arab fold with no conditions whatsoever. And so for him, this can be counted as a political victory.

0 (2m 43s):
When exactly did he get isolated? Could you remind us?

6 (2m 47s):
So the Syrian war did not start as a war, of course, in 2011. The situation in Syria was one of peaceful protests criticizing the regime, but the regime cracked down with violence on protestors.

8 (3m 7s):
My name is WA El Sowa. I am a Syrian American writer and researcher. When the apprising broke in Syria, actually, we were all taken by surprise for me and many of my generation, we were older generation, of course, we were watching what was happening. We were very pleased. But also we had our concern because we lived under both Bashad and his father. The family governed the country with an iron fist,

6 (3m 42s):
And Saudi Arabia actually was one of the first Arab countries to condemn the violent crackdown of bashad. In 2011,

8 (3m 52s):
We had sit-in a vigil and we were calling for the release of our friends and colleagues. And I remember another university professor who was in his mid seventies actually, who were beaten and dragged into the, the police van. My good friend ze. Tony also also was dragged from her hair and was pushed into the van. Many of them were taken outside of the city and dropped in the open, and they had to walk back to their homes. But those were the lucky people. Only the unlucky people had to go to the detention center and had to receive their portion of torture.

6 (4m 38s):
By 2012, Assad's diplomatic relations with Arab countries started being severed one by one. And he was as in Syria, was kicked out of the Arab League.

0 (4m 52s):
He always had Russia on his side, I guess. But how isolated did he get?

6 (4m 56s):
Asad got pretty isolated because in addition to being kicked out of the Arab League, and by this I mean serious membership was suspended, you also had Western countries withdrawing their ambassadors, closing their embassies.

9 (5m 12s):
The United States expelled the Syrians affair. Berlin and Rome made similar decisions along with London.

6 (5m 19s):
And so Asad found himself with just few backers in the Middle East and very, very few engagements in the world at large, apart from some rogue states. And so I would say the international isolation was pretty significant and severe.

8 (5m 37s):
The United States, the European countries, and many Arab countries called for a set to step down. It did mean something to me and to many other Syrians. We were very optimistic that calling on asset to step down or announcing asset as a president who lost the legitimacy of ruling the country would eventually convince Assad to step down.

6 (6m 3s):
International isolation for Syria meant that Assad was no longer regarded as the legitimate leader of Syria in most countries, I would say in the world it meant economic isolation because the European Union and the United States, for example, began to impose sanctions on the Assad regime. And people affiliated with the Assad regime as well as businesses linked to the Assad regime.

10 (6m 31s):
European leaders meeting in Brussels would determine to send a very personal message with these latest sanctions. Syrian president's wife will face travel bans and her assets will be frozen. His mother and sister are also targeted.

6 (6m 45s):
So you had political isolation. Economic isolation, and of course various attempts at political transition in Syria that ultimately aimed at removing Asad from power. And he had to tackle all those things with the help of the Russians and the Iranians.

0 (7m 4s):
And so did something change in the past year, in the past six months? Why is it that all of a sudden Middle Eastern countries are saying, let's open up relations with Bashas again. Let's open up relations with Syria.

6 (7m 20s):
What happened is over the years, all this isolation that Assad was subjected to politically was not enough to remove him from power. In the US in particular, there was no diplomatic effort to really try to get rid of Assad. People may remember that President Obama had said

11 (7m 41s):
The use of chemical weapons is and would be totally unacceptable. And if you make the tragic mistake of using these weapons, there will be consequences and you will be held accountable.

6 (7m 56s):
But when that red line was crossed because the acid regime did use chemical weapons, the US did not really react. There were no repercussions for Assad. And in a way, this lost the United States, a lot of credibility in the Middle East. It lost the United States credibility in the eyes of Assad himself, who started believing that actually the West did not really want him to leave. Unlike what President Obama had literally said that basically Assad must go,

11 (8m 29s):
We will continue to support the legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people engaging with the opposition, providing with providing them with the humanitarian aid and working for a transition to a Syria that's free of the Assad regime.

6 (8m 43s):
And over the years, the US became much more concerned with under Obama, with Iran, and trying to have a nuclear deal signed with Iran.

11 (8m 55s):
Because of this deal, the international community will be able to verify that the Islamic Republic of Iran will not develop a nuclear weapon.

6 (9m 5s):
And Gulf countries in particular, Saudi Arabia felt let down that the US was prioritizing signing a nuclear deal with Iran rather than trying to deal with Iran's regional role, such as the support for Assad. So you have an accumulation of factors over the years that led Arab countries, in particular Saudi Arabia, to feel that changing the regime in Syria is not a possibility anymore. The N peace process was not leading in that direction. Iran was getting stronger and stronger in the region, and Saudi Arabia felt that it had no choice but to try to deescalate tension instead of trying to get rid of Assad because they felt this is now impossible.

6 (9m 49s):
Hmm. So that is why he's been invited back into the Arab League. This is just a move to try to lower tensions in the region.

8 (9m 58s):
When I saw a sad descent from his plane and met by the Saudi senior officials, when I saw him sit in the meeting and address the other presidents, when I saw the Saudi officials welcome him adoringly, I was appalled. I was distressed, I was depressed. I was angry and sad at the same time. And so was more than 60% of the Syrian people. We had the feeling that we were let down by the very governments which funded the opposition to become an armed opposition.

8 (10m 38s):
And now they receive Assad as a hero.

6 (10m 41s):
For a while when debate about remitting Syria into the Arab League was going on, there was talk amongst Arab states, Arab leaders, that there could be some conditions. But what happened is Assad has been readmitted with no conditions whatsoever.

8 (10m 60s):
Of course, you will read many analysis and articles that there are hidden conditions that Assad will have to change his attitude, but it is too late. I mean, what happens now if Assad does not give any concession? Do you think the Arab leaders will expel him from the Arab League again? No way. What's done is done

6 (11m 23s):
Instead, what would've been conditions have now been transformed into issues for cooperation between Arab states and Syria. Huh? So when you say these are issues and not conditions, Asad is under no obligation to deliver on any of them. What are the issues? The peace process led by the un, which Assad never really cooperated on anyway, and is not gonna cooperate now because the peace process means political transition and he's not gonna give up power. Hmm. Second issue is the issue of refugees. Currently there are six and a half million Syrian refugees in the world.

6 (12m 4s):
Assad does not want them back really. So again, trying to imagine a scenario in which Assad is cooperating on refugee return is I think a fantasy. The third issue is that of detainees. There are many people who have disappeared and who are detained in Syria. And again, Asad is not going to suddenly tell us where they are because he doesn't want to be held accountable for their disappearance and and detention. Hmm. And then you have the issue of the drug trade, mainly the drug capta. It's a kind of amphetamine. And Syria has become the leading place for the trade of capon and manufacturing of Capon in the world.

12 (12m 47s):
Inza in Northwestern Syria. Rebels from the hi group are seizing drugs at the border crossing with this criminal industry valued in the billions of dollars. Some are now asking if we are seeing the rise of a new Middle Eastern narco state.

6 (13m 2s):
So again, this is a very lucrative source of funding for the Asad regime. And again, it's not likely to just suddenly give that up. And the final issue is that of militias backed by Iran that are running the show in many places in Syria, including being involved in the CAPTA trade, in particular, the Lebanese militia Hezbollah

13 (13m 26s):
In recent months, the militant Shiite Muslim group has thrown its support behind Syria's President Bashar Asad fighting alongside the Syrian army. Hezbollah has helped them to win key victories against the Syrian rebels.

6 (13m 40s):
Again, Asad is not going to suddenly give up on these allies that have kept him in power and are helping him make this money from the drug trade.

0 (13m 50s):
Has Bashar ever apologized Lena?

6 (13m 53s):
He has never apologized and he has never admitted doing anything wrong. Do

14 (13m 59s):
You feel guilty?

15 (14m 3s):
I, I did my best to protect the people. So you cannot feel guilty when you do your best. You feel sorry for the life that has been lost, but you don't feel guilty when you don't kill people.

6 (14m 13s):
He has always been consistent that in his view, there was never an uprising in Syria. There was an attempt by terrorists to destabilize Syria, and all he is doing in his view is protect Syria from terrorists. So he labels anyone who opposes him a terrorist, and presents himself as defending Syria from Danger.

0 (14m 50s):
Lena's back when we are back on today. Explained

Canva (15m 0s):
Support for today explained comes from Canva for teams. Canva for teams believes that great design is all around us. And as evidence, they cite the $1 bill, which was released in its current form in 1963 and hasn't changed since. Also Harry Beck's map of the London Underground system, which prioritized legibility over geographical accuracy. I don't know how that works, but apparently that's amazing. You may know by now that graphic design is my passion. And if you wanna make great design easy, you might wanna check out Canva. For Teams, it is a design platform that makes it easy for anyone to create. What I'm told is stunning content. Whether you need to build a quality presentation or get your new website off the ground, or make a perfect post across every social channel. Canva for Teams has you covered. Every feature is designed with brand consistency in mind, so you can maintain your aesthetic and use your bespoke logos and design language across everything that you build. If you wanna collaborate with Canva for teams right now, you can get a free 45 day extended trial. If you go to canva.me/explained that ca v a.me/explained for a free 45 day extended trial, Canva me slash explained,

Shopify (16m 12s):
Today's episode is brought to you by Shopify. If your business can't seamlessly accept all types of payments in person and online, Shopify wants to tell you something really controversial. Your business isn't really a business because getting money in exchange for goods or services is the definition of a business according to Shopify. I don't know, look it up. Shopify is a platform that helps millions of stores sell things online and also in person the old-fashioned way. You can sign up for a $1 a month trial period at shopify.com/explained by going to shopify.com/explained to see if Shopify can take your business to the next level. In case you missed it, Shopify.com/today

0 (17m 3s):
Explained is back with Lena Kib. Bashad is back in the Arab League. He's getting hugged. We asked Lena what leaders have to gain from engaging with this dude on a global stage.

6 (17m 16s):
Asad is not going to take any meaningful action. All they will achieve is deescalation. They just want to kind of keep Assad out of their list of issues to worry about because they have other things to worry about. So that is it really. Sadly, it's not much more than that. I mean, they just want, in the case of Jordan, maybe to have their borders quiet and down a little bit. Are

0 (17m 45s):
There countries in the Arab League that oppose rejoining?

6 (17m 51s):
Absolutely.

17 (17m 52s):
Qatar says it has no plans to embrace aad who's blamed for the deaths of tens of thousands of his own people. And the displacement of many, many more Doha is instead seeking to unite the Syrian opposition.

6 (18m 4s):
It continues to support the Syrian opposition in Northwest Syria and around the world actually. And it has declared very clearly that although it'll not stand in the way of seriously admission into the Arab League, its own bilateral relations with Syria will remain as they had been before. Meaning no diplomatic ties with Assad whatsoever and no recognition of the legitimacy of Assad as president of Syria.

0 (18m 36s):
Are other countries around the world mad at the Arab League for admitting this known war criminal back into the fold, maybe the United States, I don't know, Western nations?

6 (18m 49s):
Yes, absolutely. The UK is disappointed with this move. The United States has also insisted that it's still wants political transition according to the un peace process to happen. And that sanctions imposed by the US on the Assad regime are not going to be lifted. We

18 (19m 10s):
Have made clear to all of our partners that Syria does not merit readmission into the Arab League. And we continue to believe that we will not normalize our relations with the Assad regimes and we don't support our allies and partners doing so either.

6 (19m 27s):
So when it comes to the European nations and the United States, its business as usual. Assad is still not regarded as legitimate.

19 (19m 37s):
The European Union is there standing for the Syrian people and for the rise of Syrian people. And we will continue to support the mechanism of international accountability for all the horrors that happened from the side of the regime supported by Russia in Syria against the Syrian people.

0 (19m 54s):
Is there a precedent for this, for, for letting a known war criminal, you know, just sort of get a pass and just be welcome back into the fold? I mean, regionally and chemically, Saddam Hussein comes to mind.

6 (20m 10s):
Unfortunately, when it comes to politics, we are now in a world in which pragmatism rules rather than values. And when it comes to the Arab League in particular, many members of the Arab League are authoritarian regimes. They are not democracies. And so this issue of accountability is not absolute in this kind of context. So here you have Saddam Hussein, for example, who was obviously a criminal and yet was never actually condemned very widely in the Arab world, despite, for example, his invasion of Kuwait and the other actions, you know, against the Kurds, et cetera.

6 (20m 57s):
He was

20 (20m 57s):
A ruthless dictator. He used savage methods against his own people, including gassing 5,000 Iraqi Kurds at hell. <unk>.

6 (21m 7s):
So he was not absolutely isolated. Despite those actions of Sudan is another example.

21 (21m 16s):
A Bashir was the only serving head of state to be indicted for war crimes. International criminal court in the Hague issued to arrest warrants the charges from the war in Dar four.

6 (21m 27s):
So unfortunately, the situation of Bashad is not the first time that this kind of scenario happens. But definitely Bashad, I would say is perhaps one of the most brutal. I mean, he ranks up there with Saddam Hussein, if not even higher up in terms of the extent of the brutality he has inflicted on his people. And,

0 (21m 50s):
And where do we go from here? I, I believe Bashar has also been invited to the climate Summit Cop 28 in Dubai this November, December. Is he gonna be standing on some stage next to Joe Biden? And what would that mean for him? Just total legitimization?

6 (22m 9s):
Well, for Bashad, he would love nothing more than a photo up with Joe Biden or the Prime Minister of the UK or the King, or any real western leader who he can basically stand next to in that context and say, I am here. You have to accept me as the defacto winner In the Syrian conflict, the invitation to Cop 28 came really to suit the agenda of the United Arab Emirates, which is the host of Cop 20 A, to show the political cloud that the UAE has. Of course, Asad is relishing the moment.

6 (22m 51s):
He will do his best to use it as an opportunity to reenter the international community, not just the Arab League. So it'll be a a further step for him towards normalization at large. But this is of course going to make many Western leaders uncomfortable because they will not want a photo up with Bashad. That's for sure. There

0 (23m 15s):
Are a lot of bad dudes in the world. He's among the baddest, but what is this just safe for all the bad dudes that you can just abuse human rights conventions, the Geneva conventions with impunity and just wait it out for a while and then just, I don't know, by inertia, be welcomed back into global politics.

6 (23m 37s):
I mean, unfortunately this sets a really bad precedent considering all the harsh words said about Assad considering the documentation of the crimes inflicted by Assad. This is why the US, for example, created this Caesar act.

22 (23m 58s):
They're known as Caesar's Photographs named after a military defector who documented torture and killings in Syrian government jails. His testimonies to the US Congress was part of a campaign to hold the regime responsible for what have been described as war crimes. It led to the passing and now the implementation of a bill in the us, the so-called Caesar Act.

6 (24m 20s):
So here we have hard evidence about the brutality of this regime, and yet yes, this president is being readmitted into the Arab League and some countries in the world, even in the West, are saying maybe we should just be pragmatic and turn a blind eye. Unfortunately. What does this tell us about, say the Russia, Ukraine situation? Are we going to suddenly see Vladimir Putin re-embraced further down the line? In the same way? I think the way Asad is being handled sets a really dangerous precedent for the world at large, cuz it gives people like Vladimir Putin hope that one day they can be back.

0 (25m 17s):
Kib directs the So Ass Middle East Institute in London. Avi Shai Artsy and Hema Shaw produced today's show with help from Amina Aldi, Matthew Collette, Laura Bullard, and Patrick Boyd. I'm Sean Ram. It's today explained.