1 (35s):
it's hard to imagine millions of Americans pouring into the streets after the killing of US general but the Iranian version of that has been happening for days now, in fact so many people were in the streets of General soleimani his home town in Southeastern Iran today that there was a stampede it was reported that over 50 people died and over 200 people were injured everyone rightly wants to know right now if the world is about to go to war over all of this and unfortunately, we're gonna have to wait and see but in the meantime I'm what is it about this General that would bring out Millions compel people to risk their lives.

1 (1m 20s):
I asked Dina esfandiari. She's a fellow at the century foundation in London and she focuses on Ron we started with how many people are actually out there.

2 (1m 31s):
So it's really hard to come up with specific numbers because nobody's counted them of course, but as the images of shown there do seem to be quite a lot of people out in the streets and they also seem to be spread throughout the country. So there was some and classrooms alimonies Hometown there were many many in Tehran and the interesting thing is that aside from these demonstrations being spread across the country. They're also spread across the Spectrum, which means that people who are either supporters of This government or even against this government everybody has given up on those or at least forgotten them for now and come out in support of blossoms. Alimony.

1 (2m 10s):
And why what is it about this guy? That's led to this, you know, massive outpouring of support

2 (2m 17s):
the main reason for it. Obviously is that everybody is coming out to celebrate what they consider a National military leader and a hero of the nation who has spent the better part of his entire lifetime defending. Iranian Nation now this doesn't mean that those who are out are necessarily supportive of the methods that qasem soleimani used throughout his career in order to defend the Iranian nation. In fact, he's still quite a controversial figure, but the fact that he is the defender of the Iranian Nation commands the sense of nationalism amongst Iranians and the fact that on top of that it was a foreign country.

2 (3m 0s):
That ordered his assassination has really brought out the feeling of nationalism amongst deranian. So there is no better way to unify Iranians than in the face of an external enemy. But I suspect that what the Trump Administration did was that they were building on the protests that occurred in Iran a couple months ago where again across the political Spectrum people were demonstrating against their government Iranians have taken to the streets by thousands and what began as protests denouncing a hike in gasoline prices. Says but the uprising quickly turned political with demands the top officials step down the Iranian government responded with a five-day internet shut down. These protests were shut down pretty aggressively by the Iranian government.

2 (3m 45s):
And so I think the Trump Administration would have extrapolated from that that hey Iranians are anti their government. So there's no way that they're going to pay this much attention if we go ahead and take this very problematic figure

1 (3m 59s):
out. What was the mood in Iran before soleimani is death?

2 (4m 8s):
So I think it's key to understand that Iranians are not very happy at the moment given their economic social and political situation. There's a real sense of exhaustion amongst the Iranian public particularly exhaustion with regards to Iran's relations with other countries around relations with the US on top of that Iranians are a little bit taken aback by where they are today. They don't really understand. From their perspective their country made a certain number of concessions in 2015 when it joined the nuclear deal Iran implemented the deal and so they don't really understand why it is that today. The Trump Administration has spent the you know last year or two squeezing them as far as he possibly could economically so there is a real sense of exhaustion of discontent in Iran, but the assassination of lessons soleimani was the greatest gift that the Trump Administration could have given the Iranian government now Iranians despite their discontent have basically put that unhappiness on hold in a show of unity to come together and show that they would rather deal with their own government because it's a better the devil, you know perspective then deal with a foreign

1 (5m 23s):
enemy. What does his death mean for Iran's military operations

2 (5m 29s):
Quest some stolen money has left big shoes to fill here they are

1 (5m 35s):
members of the elite revolutionary guards on the front lines of Syria's Civil War

2 (5m 41s):
during the course of the civil war in Syria rant about the beginning where tensions really escalated with in Syria at the Iranian government in coordination with the Revolutionary guards launched this PR campaign around General qasem soleimani to basically portray him as the face of Iranian efforts in the region that was Bit of a double-edged sword on the one hand. It was very successful in elevating the importance of the Revolutionary guards and making them very popular particularly. When Isis came within 40 miles of the Iranian

1 (6m 15s):
border

2 (6m 28s):
and and the Revolutionary guards were involved in pushing them back. Back in Iraq in particular that made the group but also General soleimani pretty popular in Iran. I think there were some polls taken that had him at over 70 percent popularity in 2016. But the other side of the the flip side of that coin is that the fact that he was the face of Iran's influence in the region also meant that any time that something happened that was- on the part of groups that were funded by Iran in Iraq, for example, then That would be directly associated with the Iranian

1 (7m 6s):
government. It had been a day of tension culminating in this the Iranian consulate on fire after being stormed by a group of protesters demonstrators venting. Their

2 (7m 24s):
anger about Iran's

1 (7m 25s):
alleged involvement in Iraqi

2 (7m 27s):
politics. He was the architect of Iran's Regional activities. He had built relationships with groups on the ground in countries, like Iraq, Syria and Lebanon and he was really leading Iran's efforts in the region, but And none of this was without controversy. He had very violent Methods at times and a lot of what Iran was doing in the region was stoking sectarian tensions having said that he was the leader of a dock boats Force which is the external branch of Iran's revolutionary guards. And the Revolutionary guards are absolutely not a one-man show, which means there are others who will be able to continue what he has been doing in the region.

2 (8m 11s):
So he's left big shoes to fill but he's not Irreplaceable

1 (8m 16s):
On that subject who is his

2 (8m 18s):
successor? So the supreme leader appointed his successor quite quickly after they announced that he had been assassinated. The successors name is Brigadier. General is smile ghani. He was the deputy in the hots for so he's not as charismatic. He's not as popular. He's not as well known as I'm Solomon he was but he has been his right hand for a number of years. And so he really understands how the Ization Works. He has a very good feel for how the Revolutionary guards themselves work. He knows exactly what they're doing in the region and I believe he was involved in pushing back Isis under soleimani when when the Revolutionary guards were were focused on that.

2 (9m 2s):
The challenge that he is going to have moving forward is building the same personal relations that qasem soleimani built over the course of his entire career with different people in different groups on the ground, but I think it should be surmountable.

1 (9m 16s):
Just getting back to the Iranian people right now how much harder did their lives just get if this if this conflict between Iran and the United States is only growing.

2 (9m 28s):
I don't think that last time slowly money is death is going to influence their lives directly. What it will do is it will put some of their economic and social concerns on the back burner for a little while as they come together and and you know show themselves as a unified group in the case of an external

1 (9m 47s):
enemy

2 (9m 53s):
This has bought the Iranian government a little bit of time. But this general feeling of exhaustion and economic difficulty isn't going to go anywhere anytime soon. And that is a result of the tensions between Iran and the US and at the moment there doesn't seem to be any off-ramp to deescalate tensions and to finally get to a point where Iran can talk to the US and potentially to Europeans in order to really improve its economic

1 (10m 20s):
situation. After the break, I'll talk to to iranian-americans Father and Son to find out how they feel about everything that's happened in the past week. I'm Shawn Rama's firm. This is today explained. Hey everyone, so I know you know all about Vox podcast because I talk about him all the time you listen to one right now. I know you know about boxes Netflix show explain but Vox is also just getting into the regular like narrative TV game right now.

1 (11m 7s):
You can find a show called Little America on Apple TV plus only in America Dia odd tax after you see the ticket Place only in America can such a perfect game exist Face Forward hamburgers These Burgers bacon chili cheeseburger everything on top of everything only in America. Little America comes from the people who brought you the big sick and master of none. It tells 8 extraordinary true stories of immigrants coming to America people from Syria. Uganda Mexico Nigeria.

1 (11m 48s):
These stories are funny romantic their heartfelt and inspiring and who couldn't use a little bit of that right now Little America is live. Now, you can find it on the Apple TV app or go straight to T V Dot apple.com The show is called Little America 8 episodes check him out now. Hey, it is Ezra Klein. And I want to tell you about an exciting Episode VII has reclined show you can listen to now and episode literally years in the making it is a special excerpt of my new book. Why were polarized which is coming out on Tuesday, January 28th, the book explores the structural and psychological Dimensions behind the way American politics has changed and polarized what it has done to our institutions, but importantly what it is doing to us.

1 (12m 36s):
So I hope you enjoy it and you can listen to it by subscribing to the Ezra Klein show right now for free in your favorite podcast app it to hear a special excerpt from the book. Over the weekend something like 200 Irani ins and the Iranian Americans were detained at the US Canada Border. They were held for additional questioning about their politics their ideology their allegiances. These were people who live in the United States who are mostly returning from work trips and holiday travel. We wanted to find out how Iranian Americans feel right now about The killing of qasem soleimani and all the Fallout since I'm ROM teen Arab Louis from Teen is one of the hosts of NPR's through-line podcast.

1 (13m 27s):
He was just a baby when he came to the United States with his father in the

2 (13m 31s):
80s. My name is not there are uploading and I moved to United States as a political Refugee we

1 (13m 40s):
started out with how they ended up here. It was just after the Iranian Revolution when Ayatollah he took over

2 (13m 48s):
after revolution. I bade it over there for almost three years and in the beginning I was with Revolution, but as soon as didn't pass more than one year Khomeini humming showed his true face. And we find out that he tricked us when he was in French. He was talking about democracy. Everybody will be free every ID of will be free even come his will be free and then when he came back and he got power he did nothing about those prompts and in fact, he did reverse so that was the reason I left.

2 (14m 37s):
You don't I couldn't leave over there anymore and I couldn't see any future for my children. I was so happy. I moved over here and brought my children to grow here and have the freedom to

1 (14m 54s):
leave but you know, it's in these specific moments where tensions flare up. It is a little weird because I'm an MBA. I'm American right? I'm a citizen. I was raised here. I have that identity. And then I also have the kind of Iranian cultural identity that I was raised with at home. And when there's that tension out in the world you kind of feel it internally because it's a weird feeling to see those two parts of your identity at least in the political realm duking it out.

2 (15m 28s):
Then

1 (15m 29s):
is a journalist now at least in my life. It's to another whole identity laid on top of that which is like I tried to look at it objectively and as like skeptically as possible the tensions, but then also just like kind of scary to see the tensions kind of Rises they have how did you guys find out about the death of qasem soleimani? So I was at home on Friday and I got like an alert on my phone saying that there was a report that this top General in Iran had been killed and when I found out it hadn't even been confirmed by any other kind of major news outlets yet. And I'd before even I saw the name I knew who they were referring to because my dad and I have talked a bunch about who awesome solely money is and he's it for I think a lot of Iran's really fascinating mythical character because he is in recent years become more people become more aware.

1 (16m 21s):
This guy who was like, you know, basically fighting Iran's proxy war with the US and Saudi Arabia all over the Middle East. And so when I saw it, I knew right away and so that's I immediately texted. I think the first people I texted were my dad and my brother and knowing what you knew about him up to that point. What did you think of this person? What kind of impression had he left on you? I think Baba you should answer that first sure

2 (16m 47s):
render on teen told me that my text me that Is he dead? I was not really sorry for it. I knew him for many years. He was in John Eric war and he did a lot of Brave things in that far. But after War they came back and they took political power of evil all because general of the came back from war they almost caught that they only run. So this guy's SLI money just I can kill you why I was not sorry last month if you remember Iranian Uprising he was will for killing 1500 Iranian people and I believe also his hashtag shabby which he formed in Iraq.

2 (17m 48s):
They are responsible for killing 500 Iraq it Uprising against the government. So then I hear this news I couldn't be sorry. I said good let him go.

1 (18m 2s):
I had a different reaction. You know, I I knew him really as this kind of intelligence operative the equivalent of like something in the CIA or MI6 but for the Iranian government and even more so he organized like military forces in the Middle East. So I knew him as a kind of someone who who stood kind of an interest of the shiaa kind of alliance in the region between Iraq and Iran and On and these kind of she had powers and so that's kind of how I knew him. And so when I heard about this, I this complex reaction like on the one hand, I understand why so many people in here on didn't like soleimani because they attached him to the regime and as we all know there's a lot of displeasure with the regime in Iran.

1 (18m 44s):
I'm monitoring people but don't on the other side mother reaction was like why now, this guy has been there and people have known about him for you know, at least two previous Presidents had engaged interacted with him, orally. Their intelligence Services had and this why this the timing seemed weird to me, so when my you know, my father my brother responded way more like happy and that wasn't my initial response because I don't think I didn't live in Iran under the regime very long. I was a kid, so I don't have any of those negative feelings for the regime at that level that my father does and now a Ron's threatening Revenge promising Revenge the president's threatening cultural sites.

1 (19m 24s):
He's sending Troops to the Middle East it certainly seems like this is a conflict. That's only escalating. Do you still have family in Iran? I do have family.

2 (19m 36s):
Yes. All my cousins nephews means they are living in Iran.

1 (19m 44s):
Are you worried about them?

2 (19m 45s):
Of course? I'm worried about him. Of

1 (19m 47s):
course. Yeah. They're mostly there. You know, we came we didn't come as a part of a big family to the US. So yeah everyone's there and I'm worried. For them because I think I'm worried for my family here. I'm worried for people here because generally in these kinds of conflicts it some regular everyday people who pay the cost of a very high level political game that's being played. Yeah. I just wonder I guess irrespective of your feelings about the regime or what soleimani is death might mean for the future of Iran. Do you think that the world is a safer place today? Then it was one week ago.

1 (20m 27s):
I

2 (20m 28s):
believe Muhammad Republic is not going to own a harsh thing to USA because they don't have any military to compare with USA. So I believe they won't do that much pain. No, they all this funeral tools. They have been living 40 years with propaganda. Not really helping people or making people happy. I can strongly say 85% of the Iranian people hate them friends and talking to them. They see you have let them come bomb why not?

2 (21m 8s):
They are not coming bombing. Manny's compound right beyond the bomb being all other things. I don't think America is going to go bomb cultural things like a purse police or other teams know be cut humming compound is great is the cultural if they want to take them with you and people will be hurt

1 (21m 37s):
and so I disagree on some of that because I don't think for some reason I mean people it would that kind of attack would be they would be very horror shocked horrified angered by it. But I also think that I'm just my reading of Middle Eastern history whenever a big piece of a kind of delicate messy complicated balance is removed, like killing soleimani. It usually doesn't mean things get more peaceful. It usually results in at least regionally more violence. I think that some of those people that came out in the streets yesterday in support of soleimani and or to mourn him.

1 (22m 18s):
I think some of those people may even not be fans of the regime but there's a kind of nationalistic identity or mythology that seems to be attached to soleimani that I think is real where he's seen as figure that's like standing up to the west or whatever that that's I think the regime has done and also in a weird way the Western media has done a good job kind of creating that mythology around around him. There's no predicting where this is gonna go but I'm afraid that this kind of Sudden Change or in a region is not going to end up good and I think mostly it'll probably be a any kind of reaction of violence is probably going to affect the people in the Middle East in the neighboring countries and in Iran the most I'm teen Adair.

1 (23m 11s):
I really appreciate your time. Thank you for listening. Of course. Thank you for making the time. Thank you so much. I appreciate

2 (23m 18s):
it. Thank you, sir,

1 (23m 21s):
bye-bye.