1 (1s):
Earlier this year in a ceremony at City Hall, Newark, New Jersey entered into a partnership.

2 (7s):
Mayor Ross Baraka invited what he thought was the Hindu nation of Kai Lassa for a cultural trade agreement.

1 (13s):
The Newark City officials attending the ceremony. Luke board as a woman in an orange, sorry, with a unique left arm tattoo, takes the stage and makes some remarks. The

3 (23s):
Mission and mission of is to be created.

1 (28s):
All of this though, would become a lot less boring just a few weeks later.

4 (32s):
Turns out Kai Lassa isn't a real nation, but rather the invention of a scam artist in Fugitive who's from India,

1 (39s):
The self-proclaimed leader of Kai Lassa, likely knew that people wouldn't bother to look things up because this was not his first time. Misleading people wildly coming up on today explained a cult leader for the internet age.

6 (59s):
The Supreme Court is here a case this week about art and who gets to remix an artistic idea. But this fight is not new.

7 (1m 9s):
Olivia Rodrigo was not doing anything different from Michelangelo or Leonardo da Vinci. Honestly, those guys were looking around seeing what other people did at the time in Florence and Rome and wherever, and copying some of it.

6 (1m 23s):
SCOTUS copyright law. And you, this week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast,

1 (1m 35s):
It's today explained. I'm Noelle King. Okay? So that woman in the orange, sorry, in Newark, had this tattoo on her arm. As I mentioned, it's strange. It's very large, and it is a face. It's the face of a man named Niya Nanda. So

8 (1m 51s):
Niya Nanda is a spiritual guru. He tells people that he's going to help them achieve enlightenment.

1 (1m 58s):
Reporter Sush Patak is a freelancer in Delhi.

8 (2m 0s):
I'm actually speaking to you from my apartment here. And so if you hear some kids, you know, playing and screaming outside, you know, I mean, it's noisy here.

1 (2m 10s):
She's been following the story of this man

9 (2m 17s):
World is a mirror and stands as a reflection of your inner space. Every moment

8 (2m 25s):
He was born in the 19, in the late 1970s, he actually tells people that, you know, he had his first spiritual encounter when he was just a child sitting on a, on a hill in the Southern Indian state of Ta Nadu.

9 (2m 38s):
I was not even meditating, I was just sitting in a very relaxed way,

8 (2m 42s):
And he had a very divine experience where he saw the whole world in 360 degrees. Like he saw the entire world at the same time. Something like that.

9 (2m 52s):
Not only that, I was able to feel that the whole 360 degrees me,

8 (2m 58s):
His story starts in the early two thousands, or the late 1990s. He's this very like, you know, charming, lanky young man with, you know, a very smiling face. His, he's always smiling in public and he has this like wavy shoulder length hair, and he's always in his orange robes and he's very charismatic and he speaks English. So, you know, he's able to reach a lot of people. And in his early twenties, he sets up his ashram, which is like his, you know, camp or institution near Bangal in southern India. And he becomes popular because he used to hold these healing camps where, you know, a lot of people would attend them and feel like they've been cured of diseases.

9 (3m 45s):
There are so many of our devotees disciples who are doctors, medical doctors who practice this technique where you have pain. Just put your awareness in that area. Do not remember the word pain, and look what is happening.

1 (4m 1s):
So he has established himself as a healer who comes to follow him.

8 (4m 6s):
A lot of people are from various different backgrounds. Rich, poor, famous, non-famous. It's essentially people who are, you know, looking for a higher purpose.

9 (4m 17s):
Anything which tries to own your time, hate it, just escape from it. Even if it is guru. If you think I am trying to own your time, escape from me.

8 (4m 33s):
He talks about Hindu teachings like nonviolence. He talks about yoga, philosophy, meditation,

9 (4m 42s):
Own your body, own your mind, own your living, own your lifestyle. That is what I call yogi body. Very mind, zen living.

8 (4m 55s):
There's no single message that he was after, but essentially Hindu teachings, yoga, meditation, enlightenment.

1 (5m 4s):
When does he reach the peak of his popularity? When does he become kind of an established figure

8 (5m 10s):
In the late two thousands? At that point, he's opened ashrams or camps across the world, including in several cities in the us and he's attracting a lot of very famous people like celebrities, film stars, even Narendra Modi, who is currently India's prime minister and who is then the chief minister of Gujarat State. He met with him. So I, I would say that was the peak of his good popularity.

1 (5m 40s):
What's the evolution? When do things start to go wrong or sideways? For him,

8 (5m 46s):
It all starts with a sex tape. In 2010, a news channel gets hold of this video showing lying on a bed and a woman in a white, sorry, you know, comes near and they're interacting in a very intimate, sexual way. And for a lot of people, that was like so shocking, especially devotees because they were thinking of him as, you know, someone who is their guru, who is showing them enlightenment. And so for them, he was above all these materialistic things like, like sex or urges. He did lose devotees there,

10 (6m 25s):
An attack on the ashram of Swami after visuals were aired on TV channels, allegedly if the godman in a sexual encounter with an actress.

8 (6m 33s):
And at the same time, there's also allegations against him of rape. A woman in Michigan said that he had, you know, raped her repeatedly over five years and is the one who places this hidden camera in his room to record this scandalous footage. And that leads to his

11 (6m 52s):
Arrests, charges of rape and unnatural sex besides fraud and hurting religious

8 (6m 57s):
Sentiment. He was in jail for 50 days or something.

12 (6m 60s):
It's a very astonishing matter that the Baba has been indulging in this sex and this crime activities. He should be punished,

8 (7m 9s):
But that's not to say that he totally crashed. He still had a group of devotes who stuck by him.

13 (7m 18s):
At this moment, we feel a mix of conspiracy graphics and rumor are, are at play in these recent events that have unfolded.

8 (7m 30s):
He was able to spin the narrative in a way that, you know, I am doing this great work and there's some people who don't want me to do this righteous work, and that's why they are trying to stop me and they're attacking me. But if you really want me to carry on this great work, you have to support me. And this is something that is not unusual in India. There are a lot of gurus who have been accused of everything from murder to rape, and they still continue to hold on to their followers. So yeah, the sex scandal, the allegations they do turn his world upside down for, for a while, but he manages to come out of it.

8 (8m 13s):
And then he carries on his activities. You know, he attracts a lot of dvd. You know, we see people from outside India come and join his mission. He also starts coming upon social media a lot.

11 (8m 27s):
This man even claimed to have proven Einstein wrong.

8 (8m 31s):
He sort of becomes the butt of a lot of jokes because of his, you know, ludicrous speeches and lectures. Some

9 (8m 38s):
Of the major scientists and their theories, I'm debunking e equal to not Mc Square cannot be

8 (8m 48s):
Mc Square. He becomes kind of meme material.

1 (8m 51s):
And then what happens?

8 (8m 53s):
So in 2014, there's a 24 year old woman called Sangita who suddenly dies in his ashram in Karnataka state. And her mother is told that she had a cardiac arrest. But the mother who was already a bit skeptical of Ni doesn't believe this. And she insists that her, her daughter was actually tortured. And somehow that led to her death. And she also like goes to the court to try to get to the bottom of this. She asks India's central Bureau of investigations to look into the matter, but at the same time, we, the allegations against him of rape, you know, those, those allegations are progressing in the legal system and they sort of, they sort of start coming to a head.

8 (9m 42s):
And then in 2019, something happens that, you know, is a very, very huge blow to ni anda allegations come out by one of ni ANDA's most loyal devotes at that point. She's a Canadian woman named Sarah Landry.

14 (9m 57s):
I'd like to give a little bit of background information as to what prompted me to leave that organization, why I now call it a cult, why I am so sorry for all the years I spent promoting that place, thinking it was good.

8 (10m 14s):
She meets with a few kids who are residents in <unk> in India, and they tell her some pretty horrible things. They tell her that they're being starved, that they are being forced to beat one another, and that they're being forced to fake spiritual powers.

14 (10m 32s):
Basically what these kids would do is sit on a throne, chant a mantra, to connect themselves to that guru, and then proceed to express what most people think of as miraculous powers.

8 (10m 47s):
So these pretty horrible things come out and she's trying to process them and she, she makes a video of herself talking about all this in 2019 and sort of, you know, exposes and says that, you know, I've been fooled, I've fallen into this trap and just this is who he really is. He's a cult leader

1 (11m 12s):
To this point. We've heard the story of a man who, he's a guru, he's a healer. There's always a sense that maybe this is a type who wants power or at the very least wants a following. But what you've just described is absolutely evil behavior. Are these reports credible? And if they are credible, particularly when we're talking about children, what does that tell us about this man?

8 (11m 37s):
If they are credible and there wa there wasn't just this one case about the child abuse. There were many parents in India who complained about this. There was this one couple in particular who, you know, both their daughters were attending the ashram and for some reason NI's organization wasn't letting them meet their daughters. So the, the daughters were essentially missing, and it was pretty dramatic the way the the parents, you know, went to the ashram. This was in the state of Gujarat in western, in India, and literally like begged at the gates to, you know, let them meet their daughters. That for a lot of people was an eye-opener.

8 (12m 19s):
And at this point, I think people, there was a shift in people's attitude of how they saw. So there's a manhunt for him that's launched. The

15 (12m 28s):
Police in Ard and TA have launched a massive manhunt for Swami, the self style godman who had disappeared from his ashram in <unk>

8 (12m 38s):
At that point, it's been a long time since he'd made public appearances. And so when that manhunt has launched a few days later, police tell the media that he's probably out of the country.

1 (12m 50s):
Okay, so this is, this is 2019. He's now vanished and then surely this is the end of him, right? He's been accused of some really bad stuff here. He's vanished from the country. It's over,

8 (13m 5s):
Not at all, it's just the beginning of his next chapter. He surfaces and says, announces on, on, on video that he's creating this new country called ksa.

9 (13m 21s):
We already have a sovereign territory in more than one place far KSA and diplomatic relationship with many countries far and I am safe.

8 (13m 38s):
So there are rumors that it's on an island off of Ecuador in South America. Then in a video in 2020, he invites people basically to, you know, come to Australia. And from there I'm going to send my chartered flight to fly you to Kwassa and you can come for three days and you can see me only once. He doesn't exactly say where the country is. But yeah, at that point the rumors are swirling

16 (14m 17s):
From New York Magazine in the Vox Media podcast network. This is the Joe Rogan experience with a thousand percent more experience. Or is it the Don Lemon Show with a hundred percent more understanding of women in their prime. Just kidding. This is on with Kara Swisher. And I'm Kara Swisher. Every Monday and Thursday I take on big names in tech, media and politics to understand what makes them tick and to hold their feet to the fire. A bit on with Kara Swisher. Listen, wherever you get your podcasts,

17 (14m 55s):
How can an entire city get catfished?

1 (14m 58s):
It's today explained. We're back with reporter Sota Patak in Delhi. Sota has been covering this guru, a man named Niya Nanda.

0 (15m 9s):
Here's

18 (15m 10s):
Your chance to take a three day tour of the Hindu Sovereign Nation, Kai Lasa, founded by the absconding Godman.

9 (15m 17s):
Do not ask for more than three day visa. LASA can accommodate anyone only for three days for now.

1 (15m 27s):
So I hear that this man is vanished, created his own country, and I'm getting Waco vibes, I'm getting Jonestown vibes, I'm getting OSHA vibes. What exactly is this guy doing? Has he moved into kind of full on cult leader who has gone elsewhere in the world and is like Macon, his little civilization based on what he thinks is right and wrong, et cetera? Totally.

8 (15m 51s):
I think it's lined with what we've seen with Osho or with other cults. It's just that he takes it one step further and declares this country that has its own constitution, its own national anthem, its own flag, its own currency. Anyone can sign up for citizenship just by scanning a QR code. They issue e passports, they have their own central bank. He's creating this whole like El Lassa universe. Basically,

1 (16m 20s):
In order to be a country you have to interact with other countries. Is he doing that?

8 (16m 26s):
That's exactly what he's trying to do.

19 (16m 31s):
Bazaar hit a new hive when Kai Lassa was given a platform in the United Nations, and this woman who claims to be the permanent representative of Kai Lassa addressed the assembly looking like she was straight out of a drama set.

8 (16m 44s):
He is trying to get recognition, you know, at global forums. His representatives who call themselves the ambassadors or diplomats of Kaisa, they have made appearances in UN meetings to talk about sustainable development that they're doing in Kaisa and to talk about how their leader NDA is being persecuted by some people in India. The

20 (17m 11s):
Supreme HI and KSA have gone through intense persecution and human rights violation for reviving the indigenous traditions and lifestyle of Hinduism.

8 (17m 23s):
They've gone to around 30 cities in the US to sign agreements. They call themself, they call them sister agreements sometimes. And this is all basically a way to show the world that, you know, we are legend, we've arrived.

1 (17m 47s):
And so when they are meeting with government officials, when they have meetings at the United Nations, what is it that they talk about?

8 (17m 55s):
They basically highlight what they say is a large scale Hindu persecution that's going on in the world, and that they are trying to preserve Hindu traditions. They talk of a Hindu holocaust. So they're using, they're using all this like social justice, minority rights language and they're twisting it to create a, a reality that doesn't exist.

1 (18m 21s):
This gentleman and his followers, there's no evidence that they are a separate ethnic minority?

8 (18m 26s):
No, no, not in the, not in the conventional sense of persecuted. Like so for example, they talk about violence against Hindus and violence against them. And while there is violence against Hindus in some countries like you know, Pakistan and Bangladesh, there is no wide scale persecution of Hindus in the world. Like they compare it to the Jewish Holocaust. And we know that that's not happening with Hindus. Yes, Hindus are being persecuted in some countries where they are a minority, but there's no Hindu Holocaust.

1 (19m 1s):
What happens when government officials realize that they're partnering with a fake country

8 (19m 7s):
At the UN when, when represented with spoke UN spokesperson clarified that, you know, those comments were not relevant to the discussion. So when cities or un realizes that we've given a platform to someone who doesn't really deserve it, they do their bit to, you know, say that, okay, sorry we made a mistake. But Kai Lassa doesn't always share that with its followers.

1 (19m 35s):
It would be easier for these folks to buy some land somewhere and set up and be themselves. We've seen that with numerous cults before. Right? We've talked about some of them. Why does Kai Lassa think it needs to be a country? It is inevitably embarrassed when people find out that it is not. What do you think is happening here?

8 (19m 56s):
I think they're trying to get credibility somewhere because they know that they don't have any credibility left in India, and Nitan and himself has admitted that creating this new nation is a way for him to get immunity from arrests. He's trying to protect himself from, he calls them anti Hindu elements in India who are after him.

1 (20m 19s):
It's interesting because this, this country, this fake country could not really exist if we weren't in the internet age. What I mean is, you just told me I can get citizenship if I apply using a QR code that is remarkable is both a product of the internet age, but also it is inevitably going to be taken down because we are in the internet age. This is one of those things that could only be happening in or around 2023.

8 (20m 46s):
Exactly. It definitely seems like the only place they exist is on the internet. All the evidence we've, we know till now shows that Kai Lassa doesn't really exist physically. And you know, I've spoken to religious scholars who've, you know, scoured the internet to find out clues about where it could exist. And they say that there is no evidence to say that it actually exists. So people are trying to create this nation on the internet and that's why they're using social media so much. That's why these appearances that they make in global platforms like the UN or Sister City agreements, those are widely shared on their social media platforms to, you know, create this reality.

8 (21m 33s):
It's almost as if they want to tweet their way into existence.

1 (21m 38s):
And that really makes this a classic internet age story about disinformation, doesn't it? Yes,

8 (21m 44s):
Exactly. I think at its score, it is a story about disinformation. There are so many things that they're doing that we've seen in, you know, other disin disinformation wars, like, you know, giving out half information. So for example, they posted about their sister city agreement with new work, but they don't clarify on their website that that agreement was taken down after just six days. Another one is exaggeration. When they sign the sister city agreements, they portray it as, you know, they being recognized by the United States of America. So, you know, taking something really tiny and making it very big, and then also just overwhelming people with a lot of information.

8 (22m 29s):
So recently on social media, they did like a question answer session with some journalists and they would just throw so much information at them. And it's just so hard to, you know, go and refute every single thing. And I think that's one tactic because a layperson doesn't have a lot of time or expertise to, you know, go and refute everything that they say. And so at some point they're just gonna take things at face value. And when they see photos at the un photos with Newark officials, that is proof that these people are being allowed on platforms in like, you know, centers of power in the world.

8 (23m 11s):
And that's enough for a lot of people to believe them. I think they're getting away with this because honestly, there's a lot of ignorance or naivety still in the west about in the religion. It's not a main religion in, in the West. And I think we are at a point where, you know, western leaders probably are, you know, want to give the benefit of doubt to someone who says they're persecuted so they perhaps don't do as much due diligence. And it, it's because Kai Lassa uses these buzzwords to paint a false picture and that does a disservice to, you know, Hindus who are actually facing violence.

1 (24m 4s):
That was freelance reporter Suta Patak. Today's episode was produced by Halima Shaw and edited by Matthew Collette. Fact checking was a team effort. It was engineered by Paul Robert Mosey. I'm Noelle King, it's today explained.