1 (0s):
Okay. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa stop. That's not how it's supposed to

3 (7s):
go.

1 (28s):
It's like explained I'm Sean dramas from it's Friday. It's summer. We're going back to today explained summer camp for the kids today this week. We're talking about the election. Remember the election. We're still a couple of months away from it fewer than a hundred days. I believe but believe it or not. The election for President on the island of explained is happening today reporter camp counselor know I'm hassenfeld is Have on the scene. Hey Sean, I'm here in electricity the capital of the island of explained really getting psyched for today's

3 (1m 1s):
election. And what is it like out there in electricity? What's the energy

1 (1m 6s):
like there are parades that

3 (1m 7s):
are marching bands out here. There are voters with signs. There's going to be speeches. I mean, it's really not on that you for Pinkerton nice to see a I'm actually talking with Sean right now about the island of explained election that's

1 (1m 22s):
going on here. I was really confused. Use you mind if I listen in actually Sean, would you mind if I just take bird around the island? I can let you in the audience listening to sure. I'll go get some popcorn. Hey bird, let me take you over this way. Let's head over to the city center.

3 (1m 36s):
Okay. So this isn't she one of my questions the signs and that parade over there. Or super intense like now or never later is greater. What is that all about? Oh, yeah. So the island of explain has two big political parties. Oh, this does look like a party that explains the balloons and confetti and colorful fireworks in the middle of the day is there cake no cake. It's not really that kind of party a political party is a bunch of people who come together because they sort of have the same political ideas. And they basically pick one person who's really good at talking about the ideas and they say hey, you should be our pick to run for president.

3 (2m 18s):
So like you have the Republicans and the Democrats in the US exactly. I still think the party with the cake would be better. Oh, there's one of the candidates right now happy now you're from the now party and it looks like he's got a megaphone. You know what I hate waiting. The later party is always saying you get things later. It or later, but I say let's get them now. So what are you waiting for vote for me? Happy now here right now. Okay, so it sounds like there's the now party and they're a little impatient.

3 (3m 1s):
Yeah true. And then there's the later party and that's run by the later gator. You know, what happens when you get everything now, um, Up with anything later later is greater. Save your boat for later and me the later gator. Oh, it looks like the two parties parades are all headed towards that giant stage over there. Yeah, the the candidates are about to give speeches and that sort of their best chance to explain their ideas. Then everyone gets a chance to vote in

1 (3m 36s):
the US. There's a whole bunch of speeches and events over the course of like a year or more but

3 (3m 40s):
Here on the island at all. Just takes a day we go listen to it. Yeah, of course. Now presenting the town hall for the

1 (3m 49s):
president of this great island of explained how some of these voters definitely work under 18. Oh, yeah, the island of explained is kind of different from the US they let kids vote here, and it looks like the first couple rows are filled with students. And now without further Ado our first candidate representing the now party happy now year

3 (4m 16s):
Mmm, when I was a kid someone from the later party told me to save all my Halloween

1 (4m 21s):
candy and eat it later. So I put my Halloween candy and a drawer and you know what when I went back to get some of that candy two days later, it was full of ants

3 (4m 31s):
I had to throw it all out

1 (4m 33s):
and ever since then I've known that whatever you have you have to use it. Now.

3 (4m 39s):
I promised to build Bridges and houses now. And I will require everyone to eat all their candy immediate vote for now right now.

1 (4m 56s):
Next up from the later party the later gator

3 (5m 0s):
my wise mother lady later used to tell kids to save their

1 (5m 5s):
candy on Halloween

3 (5m 7s):
and yes, some of them got ants in their candy, but I can't count. The number of

1 (5m 12s):
kids who wrote my mom

3 (5m 14s):
letters thanking her for all the candy. They still had in December saving is hard but it makes good things like A long time. I promised to save our money in case something bad happens like a hurricane and I will outline eating candy until three weeks after you get it and to the now party. I say Don't Stop Me Now. Okay, we're ready for the question and answer section. Does anyone have any questions or

1 (5m 52s):
comments? We'll start by passing microphones around to the students

3 (5m 57s):
you

1 (5m 57s):
there?

3 (6m 1s):
I think that now is moving a little too fast. It should take a

1 (6m 7s):
little more time because we're going to do

3 (6m 9s):
if I have any more money from

1 (6m 10s):
hurricanes Mister maou year should we

3 (6m 14s):
save all our money in case a hurricane comes

1 (6m 17s):
know? I think we need things now and we'll worry about later if later ever comes we need new houses hurricanes. That's a later problem. You said you New houses that means you already have houses Miss Gator. Yeah, that's true. And we should wait till later to see if we need more houses, you know hermit crabs switch out. There shell houses all the time. Are you trying to say hermit crabs shouldn't be allowed to move

3 (6m 47s):
hermit crabs are not how we should be running our Island there crabs, correct?

1 (6m 53s):
Thank you hermit crabs and humans are not the same. Thank you. We are not we We're not one inch Too Tall. He grew up to 7 feet. Yeah, we're stronger than them. Yeah, I happen to be two inches tall. That's a lie. I think you guys should join together because now is to now and laters to later. You guys should join together and will be the perfect time. I agree because you should have spent all the money, but you shouldn't like to save it Miss Gator. Could you work together with mr. Now year?

3 (7m 26s):
I'm scared that if I start working with those

1 (7m 29s):
Now people

3 (7m 30s):
the next thing, you know, everyone's going to want everything now and I feel like this is our moment to say

1 (7m 37s):
not now later. It's almost like you're saying right now is your moment. No, no. Well.

3 (7m 46s):
Yeah. I'm now now is

1 (7m 48s):
Our Moment sounds like a now party phrase to me. Oh snap

3 (7m 52s):
exposed. Please just got

1 (7m 54s):
bite if we don't vote for now, there won't be a later that is deep. I agreed

3 (7m 59s):
because if you want something you really eat it if you were a

1 (8m 3s):
gay gonna be no later. So what's the point? All right folks, please proceed to the voting platform to vote. Oh and bird. This is another difference from the u.s. In the u.s. You know, it's secret voting on the island of explained they announced their votes. I'm gonna for later because if there is a hurricane will have enough money to rebuild houses and all the other stuff. We need to rebuild our eyes later is never going to come now is always there and one day you're going to regret that you didn't do it. Now if I had to choose I would vote for now. My vote is renowned.

1 (8m 44s):
If you really need something how you'll get across like you got nothing to be across the ocean because the bridge so that's why I bought with now. Now if you're in a fire, I mean if I call you later, it's not going to end well for you, we need a bridge we need it. Now if we need a new road, we're gonna

3 (9m 0s):
kind of need that

1 (9m 1s):
I vote for later because I like to save up all my money, but probably be now I will spend later now for the latest for layer for now for now for now sounds like an interesting name. Okay, it's time to count every last vote. I'm so Jazz. No, I can't wait to find out who won. Yeah, so these were just the votes in the capital electricity here, but they still have to collect all the votes from all over the island. So we'll find out who won the election after the break.

1 (9m 59s):
Support for our show today. Yes comes from another show but no is not like all those other shows because this show is hosted by Michelle Obama. It's called the Michelle Obama podcast and it's on Spotify right now. The series brings listeners inside the former first lady's most candid and personal conversations and it shows them what's possible when they allow themselves to be vulnerable to open up and to focus on what matters most. Here's what Michelle says. My hope is that this series can be a place to Or meaningful topics together and sort through so many of the questions were all trying to answer in our own lives. Perhaps most of all I hope this podcast will help listeners open up new conversations and have hard conversations with the people who matter most to them.

1 (10m 41s):
That's how we can build more understanding and empathy for one another joining. The former first lady will be an array of special guests including Barack Obama Marion and Craig Robinson Conan O'Brien Valerie Jarrett. Michelle Norris and dr. Sharon Malone listen for free at Spotify.com / Michelle Obama podcast I remember I used to have a history teacher back at UCLA who said to us that there are times when you could feel the fists of History tightening around you always thought about that. She was talking not long after 9/11.

1 (11m 23s):
But this is another one of those moments. It is a hinge moment in the American Democratic experiment. The entire Globe is being battered by the coronavirus. We're dealing with some of our oldest moons in this country on top of entirely new technologies like it is a crazy time. I miss her client host of years of Hangzhou podcast. And what we're trying to do right now is understand our time and try to find some of the ideas that might help us chart a way out of it the past few months. We've talked to Tom a Seacoast about why the protest made him actually hopeful demariont'e Basu kado about the ways in which economic profession has misunderstood the concept and this measure the concept of value to Elizabeth Warren about her plan to combat the coronavirus Russ Douthat about whether or not American societies become decadent.

1 (12m 6s):
These have all been great conversations and there are Many more I hope you'll join me every Monday and Thursday to stay informed and maybe we got a sense of hope as well subscribe to this recline show on a podcast Spotify or whatever you listening to this right now. Boo, boo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo explain. All right Bird, you ready to hit the election results? Heck. Yes. I am and the results are in the now party got 230 votes in electricity and the Labour party only got 125.

3 (12m 41s):
So now has one off the city as for total votes now got three hundred and forty eight votes across the entire Island the later party only got 300. So the now party one. Well, hold on just a

1 (12m 58s):
second over to the Electoral College later got ten States, and now only got one. So because later won the Electoral College tend to 1 that means later has won the

3 (13m 10s):
election, but now got more votes what's going on? So now did get more votes

1 (13m 22s):
but like you heard later. Later one in the Electoral College college like University not exactly. This is a different kind of college. The Electoral College is just a fancy name for the strange way that the island of explained count votes in an election man parties that aren't parties colleges, but our colleges this island has bananas give it a chance. Actually the Electoral College means that we count States instead of people electricity is one of these states but there Actually a whole bunch of other states on the island. Why would you count States instead of people? Okay, it's kind of confusing but it's actually a way to make sure that everyone's opinion is heard.

1 (14m 5s):
It might actually help if we zoomed out a bit or actually let's zoom up a bit. I've got these little jet packs here think we can get a better view. All right, I'm always up for a jetpack. Let me grab your seat belt on safety first.

3 (14m 28s):
Holy doing non, you can see the whole island from up here. Yeah, there's there's electricity down there. You can see. Wow. I didn't realize how many people there were. They look almost like ants from all the way up here. Yeah, man, look around. There's the knock on Woods over there the side aisles and you can even see the 123 Forest way back over there. Wow, those places look like they have barely any people. Yeah exactly. These are Rural places there's usually only a few people in each one and they're almost always big later party supporters. Got it. And that's actually kind of why we count States instead of people to give these later party people more of a voice.

3 (15m 12s):
Let me actually just show you some of these later places here. We can just switch these jet packs to hyperdrive. Yeah. One of us takes on the island the really loves the later party is the rabbit hole. Let's let's check it out. Wow, who knew that the history of the color beige could be so interesting. I'm so glad I have 7,000 more pages left in this book. That sounds like a later project by ever heard one. And if you come over here to the 123 Forest. How much of my berry harvest if they turn into Jam for the winter all of it, you mean they're also thinking long-term at the same time all the way back in electricity.

3 (16m 1s):
They are all about the now. Get out of my way. All

1 (16m 17s):
right, okeydoke the step he is always so bad for my back stretch it out. Yeah, I think I'm falling so far. So I was confused why we count States instead of people but you just showed me that most of the island is rural. There aren't that many people who live out there and most of them like the later party and then meanwhile in the city people usually like the now party and the city has a ton of people So the Electoral College count States instead of people so that electricity doesn't have too big a voice in the election. Is that right? Exactly? Yeah, but I'm still not totally clear on how it all works.

1 (16m 58s):
It works like this each of the states on the island electricity the knock on Woods Deep dive Lake all these states they each count up their votes and decide who won the state. Okay. So when now one leg Your city by like a lot a lot a lot that just didn't matter. Well, it's sort of mattered now did get the most votes in electricity, but that's only one state the later party won. All the other states all ten of them. Wait a second. If each state counts the same but there's way more people in electricity than in the knock on Woods, then one person's vote and the knock-on woods is way more powerful than one of these voters here in electricity.

1 (17m 44s):
Excuse me, all of you who just voted. How do you feel about that? This is corrupted. This is rigged now are the winners. It's fair but unfair, I don't know looks like a tie. I'm half and half on the situation because I did think it's fair that there's electoral college and stuff, but I don't think it's fair how a lot of people voted for now and later one. So do you think it would be more fair if we just counted? Instead. Yes, I think that's fair because that's where most of the people live and so fair now deserves the W. Yeah, a lot of people in the US feel like this too. Oh, that's right because the US has an electoral college system to yeah, the island of explain model is actually based on the model in the US.

1 (18m 32s):
I've got a friend who works in a library here. Actually, I wonder if we should go pay her a visit. I bet she could explain the way it works in the u.s. You know, I love a library. Just remember it's a lot quieter in there. Okay, I'll whisper. Bird, this is Li the librarian. And I hope you don't mind. We also brought some student voters along High voters. We were just talking about the Electoral College here on the island and it's pretty similar to The Electoral College in the u.s. Right? Yeah. They're they're pretty similar things are a little more tricky in the US on the island.

1 (19m 13s):
Every state counts the same but in the US the states with more people count for a bit more got it, but at the end of the day the island and the US are pretty close because they both Presidents based on the state's not just on how many people voted okay interesting. So the I don't have explained base their system on the US, but how does the US even come up with this model? There were a few reasons for it. The first is that the founders wanted to make sure that smaller States that had fewer people also had a voice. Oh just like on your Island exactly. Another one is that the founders thought that people might not have enough information to voters.

1 (19m 55s):
Vote directly for president it's kind of complicated but the founders thought that the Electoral College would be a way around giving the people too much power. But we also need to talk about some of the countries ugly history here. When the Electoral College was made in the u.s. Slavery actually played a huge role back. Then a lot of people in the southern states were enslaved and enslaved people weren't allowed to vote. Actually. Let me grab a map. Take Georgia over here and lay people couldn't vote. So Southern States like Georgia didn't have a lot of Voters a state like New York all the way up here had way more people who could vote the South push to use the Electoral College so states there could have roughly about the same amount of say in who got to be president as states in the north.

1 (20m 54s):
It wasn't just about slavery, but it was a lot about slavery. But we don't have slavery anymore. So why is the Electoral College still around for one? It's really hard to change and for another the people who like it want to keep it around because they see it as continuing to give small states more power compared to larger States. I don't really like that. We have this system that has so much to do with slavery. What about you guys if we were still living like that, I would be a slave I Of course you get a new voting system. I would change the system no matter what.

1 (21m 38s):
On top of its connections to slavery. The Electoral College is still a big obstacle to change in America and many see it as an undemocratic system. Just like on the island of explained every person's vote doesn't count the same. So a couple of recent presidents have actually gotten the most votes and still lost the election kind of like what happened to the now party. Okay so voters. What do you think? Should we keep the Electoral College? I think we should change it. It's like electricity their vote really doesn't matter because if all the other places look for later, then what's the point of voting in the first place?

1 (22m 26s):
So I feel like we should probably change it. I think rate of change it because everybody matters, I think we should change it because it's not fair. I think you just count everyone the same. Let's say there's a lot of votes for a good president and there's like very little votes for Very horrible president and the horrible president gets chosen instead of the good President. We should change it solely should the u.s. Get rid of the Electoral College if we want to have a democracy where everyone's vote counts, we should really think about changing it. I mean it's been around for a while.

1 (23m 6s):
Is it even possible to change it? It's definitely possible to do. So some people who ran for president have even proposed plans to change it and there are Other ideas out there to change it to so even though it is really tough to change a system like this just because it's difficult doesn't mean we shouldn't try well. Thanks for explaining all of this dust lie. Yeah, I'm glad I understand how this works now, even if it is kind of complicated. Thanks for coming to my library. Okay Bert, I think it's about time we jetpack out of here. I think we can just make it if we aim for that open Archway down there.

3 (23m 47s):
Do you have to eat silent?

1 (24m 3s):
Today explain summer camp counselors. No MM hassenfeld and bird Pinkerton Jillian Weinberger edited today's episode of Phim Shapiro engineered with the help of his son Harvey his other son Louis and his wife Steph boxes at his hotel director of podcasts Liz Kelly Nelson helped a bunch too. And we had help from Amanda Northrop Rachel giannini Salim Hugh Penny Lauren cats, Jamila various and Rachel Israel. Thanks to Lee's oh who played the Islands librarian and a special thank you to all the kids who came to the island with those Kyra Marco Eric Jacob Micah Mateo Kelly Anthony Diana Geo Kalani, Angela demarre and Isaiah.

1 (24m 43s):
You can spend more time on the island of explained with a set of activities we've put together for you to do with your grown-ups and to do with your kids. Are you team now or team later? What about your family? What about your friends? Go to box.com today explain kids for a discussion guide and activities on phone banking tallying election results and Creating the perfect persuasive speech. Again. That site is vox.com today explained kids. The rest of the takes plain team includes Bridget McCarthy Halima Shamu, JT and Amanda al-saadi. We had extra help this week from Paul Mound Z Cecilia latex, the facts the mysterious brake master cylinders are Booster and the show is part of the VOX media podcast Network.

1 (25m 26s):
All right. This episode was brought to you by snails men's lime

3 (25m 36s):
snails been / 10 seconds with my spells inside and your parents will be just fine.