3 (9s):
It's a big day in Washington DC. It's Halloween

2 (16s):
the Nationals won the World Series for the first time ever. Go expose Series game seven. What a curly W is in the books and the

3 (30s):
impeachment inquiry is official.

2 (35s):
On this vote the yeas are 232. The Nays are 196. The resolution is adopted without objection. The motion to reconsider is laid upon the table Madam speaker. I rise in strong support of house resolution 661 the rise in strong support, but I do not take any pleasure in the events that have made this process

1 (1m 1s):
necessary.

2 (1m 4s):
I think the gentleman Madam speaker trying to put a ribbon on a sham process. Does it make it any less of a

3 (1m 9s):
sham? Andrew Prokop politics Vox what is this mean?

1 (1m 16s):
It is now official and maybe already was official but now it's like extra

3 (1m 21s):
official. What does that mean?

1 (1m 25s):
Well, so today was the first full vote taken by the House of Representatives related to the impeachment inquiry of President Donald Trump, and it's not a vote about impeaching trump. It was a procedural vote. On how the impeachment inquiry will work going forward now, this is basically a political move to sort of ratify and get the Full House vote behind what Democrats were already doing

3 (2m 2s):
and it was pretty much a party-line vote. What does the actual resolution say?

1 (2m 7s):
So the resolution was about procedures it was about how things are going to work going forward and over the past month the action in the impeachment inquiry has been in representative Adam shifts house intelligence committee. They have been holding closed-door depositions of various Trump Administration officials related to the Scandal over whether Trump pressured the Ukrainian government to investigate. His political opponents including Joe Biden now this seems to be a signal that we are moving from the closed-door phase of this to an open setting where there will be public hearings aired on television Witnesses being questioned by members of Congress that we can all at long last

3 (3m 0s):
watch did the house have to have this vote today. Why did they do it today? Why is this happening right now? They did not

1 (3m 8s):
have to hold this vote. There's no requirement in house rules or in the Constitution that an impeachment inquiry start with a vote of the Full House and it's not clear entirely why they are holding this vote now, but the fact that they have not held this vote yet has been one of the major Republican talking points used to criticize the impeachment inquiry for Six now

2 (3m 38s):
Nancy Pelosi needs to have a fair process of vote on the floor to actually authorize this impeachment inquiry with a standard set of rules and due process. This is an attempt to to dress it

3 (3m 52s):
up a little bit to try and give it to the sheen of legitimacy and I just don't think that's going to sell

1 (3m 58s):
and it didn't seem like a particularly sincere argument because none of them are going to now say all right. Now it's legitimate that they've held this. Vote they'll just move on to new process based complaints in large part because they're uncomfortable defending President Trump on the merits of this

3 (4m 16s):
Scandal. Well, the fact that Democrats may have been pressured into doing this by Republicans makes it sound sort of unremarkable but there's like an official impeachment inquiry happening against the present. That's a pretty big deal. Right, you know on the substance

1 (4m 30s):
this vote doesn't change very much Democrats were conducting this impeachment inquiry before it and they will Conducting it after it and it wasn't strictly necessary still though, you know an impeachment of a president is a very rare thing and it is a milestone that will be remembered by history that this is the first full vote of the House of Representatives related to the topic of whether Trump will be impeached even though that final full vote on impeachment is still probably weeks or more likely months down the road.

3 (5m 5s):
So what comes next I'm like televised hearings. So Chef is going to bring back

1 (5m 11s):
some of the witnesses that have testified behind closed doors and he will also get new Witnesses if you can and then at the end of this phase, it's no specific timeline. But whenever they decide they're done the intelligence committee and shift will write a report on their findings and recommendations. That report is then The Judiciary Committee comes in they will review the report and we'll probably draft articles of impeachment related to the findings of that report and they will vote on whether to approve those articles of impeachment and if they are approved then they will go before the Full House and that is the vote to impeach Donald Trump in the house if any article of impeachment passes trumpism.

1 (6m 7s):
Impeached and then we move to the Senate which will hold a trial on whether he should be removed from

3 (6m 13s):
office. Why call witnesses who have already testified? So the move now really

1 (6m 19s):
is to make more of a public case about why Democrats think Trump did something very wrong here and deserves impeachment. They've gotten all of this information behind closed doors. That was the kind of fact Gathering phase away from TV cameras, you know stunts and people mugging for the cameras and now they're ready. They think they are on a good position and they understand the basic facts of this Scandal and now they're ready to kind of are those facts more in public and get some big TV at events to capture voters attention.

3 (7m 2s):
And while we're on witness testimony, there was some witness testimony this week anything significant

1 (7m 9s):
there were several witnesses that came in to do their closed or depositions this week and the most significant one that we know of so far was Alexander venneman. He is a staffer for the National Security Council and he is also a lieutenant colonel in the US Army and Then Min was the top Ukraine expert on the NSC staff and he was in the mix and in the thick of all of this today. The White House is top Ukraine expert told impeachment investigators that he and

2 (7m 47s):
others on the National Security Council repeatedly raised concerns about the president's push for investigations into the Biden's and 2016 election

1 (7m 56s):
interference and he gave an opening statement, which has been released publicly. That was quite critical of what Trump did here in demanding these investigations into the Biden's and then Ben says that he reported his concerns internally twice during this

3 (8m 16s):
process. Why was vitamins testimony a big deal so venneman added new

1 (8m 24s):
detail to events and episodes we had previously heard about in this whole Saga and he also revealed some new concerning episodes that we had not yet heard about first of all thinman was on the famous phone call between Trump and the Ukrainian president and that's interesting because he is actually the first official who was actually on the line. During the call who Democrats have heard testimony

2 (8m 53s):
from he says quote. I was concerned by the call. I did not think it was proper to demand that a foreign government investigator US citizen and I was worried about the investigation the implications for the US government support of Ukraine. I realized that if Ukraine pursued an investigation into the Biden's and Charisma, it would likely be interpreted as a partisan play which would undoubtedly result in Ukraine losing the bipartisan support. It has thus far maintained this would all Undermine US National

1 (9m 21s):
Security, that's what Vin man chose to reveal in his opening statement since his testimony other details have leaked out that he apparently said behind closed doors

2 (9m 36s):
Lieutenant Colonel Alexander venneman the first witness with first-hand knowledge of that call to testify reportedly told investigators The crucial phrases were left out of the White House transcript of the call.

1 (9m 48s):
He said That he wanted to make certain changes to the transcript of the phone call afterward that he believed would more accurately reflect. What was

3 (9m 58s):
said but before The Whistleblower even made his report.

2 (10m 1s):
Yes, then men tried to add those details to the reconstructed White House transcript of the call. But according to the times his edits were not included and it's not clear why

1 (10m 12s):
then men also describes more about how the document summarizing the call was locked down afterwards. Heard that after he was telling the nfc's lawyer John Eisenberg about all these concerns that the response was to try to prevent many other government officials from being able to see what happened here and have access to this transcript by moving it to a more secure system. You know, it looks like he will be a tough witness to discredit. He's corroborated a lot of what was said so far and raised new concerning a Stations as

2 (10m 50s):
well behind closed doors the deposition grew heated lawmakers shouting at each other Democrats are accusing Republicans of asking questions in an effort to determine the whistleblowers

3 (11m 1s):
identity to people think that VIN man himself could be the Whistleblower

1 (11m 6s):
he testified he was not The Whistleblower and he doesn't match the reported background where he was The Blower's a CIA

3 (11m 14s):
officer. Does he still work at the White House? Yes,

1 (11m 17s):
he is still detailed to the end. SC staff but he is an active duty army officer. So, you know, the NSC staff is just a temporary assignment for

3 (11m 28s):
him how much credibility does that give him that he's an active duty member of the military that he's in the White House? Well, you might

1 (11m 36s):
think that it would give him Sterling credentials. He doesn't have a partisan background at all. He was wounded in Iraq by a roadside bomb. He got a purple heart and so, you know Decorated veteran but it didn't take long until some of Trumps Defenders were viciously attacking him calling attention to his background, which is that when he was three years old his mother died and his father and grandmother fled Ukraine or the Soviet Union at the time and got to America. Most people would interpret this as an inspiring story of the American dream that he rose to become a decorated military veteran and a top staffer in the White House's National Security Council, but Trump's Defenders have used this to make insinuations and innuendos about you know, is he really loyal to the United States or is he loyal to Ukraine because colonel veneman emigrated

2 (12m 45s):
from Ukraine along with his family when he was a child and is

1 (12m 48s):
fluent in Ukraine.

3 (12m 49s):
And

2 (12m 50s):
and Russian Ukrainian officials sought

1 (12m 52s):
advice from him about how to deal with. Mr. Giuliani though. They typically communicated in English. Well, wait a second

2 (13m 1s):
John isn't that kind of an

1 (13m 4s):
interesting angle on this story

2 (13m 8s):
find that

3 (13m 8s):
astounding and you know, some people

1 (13m 11s):
might call that Espionage it was pretty ugly stuff and there were some Republicans who pushed back against it representative. Liz Cheney of Wyoming daughter of the former Vice President Dick Cheney spoke out and said that

3 (13m 27s):
questioning the patriotism questioning the dedication to country

2 (13m 30s):
of people like mr. Venneman and others who have testified it is shameful to question their patriotism their love of this nation and we should not be involved in that

1 (13m 40s):
process Senator Mitt Romney said the same thing.

3 (13m 43s):
How does the president feel about someone who works in his White House testifying in such an incriminating? Way against him has he weighed

1 (13m 51s):
in? The line Trump has taken is basically. I don't know him. I don't know those gentlemen.

3 (13m 58s):
That's the approach Mariah

1 (13m 59s):
Carey. Did anyone ask her about Jennifer Lopez Mariah Carey defense. I don't know

2 (14m 4s):
her. The president tweeted this supposedly according to the corrupt media the Ukraine coal concern today's never

1 (14m 17s):
Trump or witness

2 (14m 18s):
was the on the same call that I was can't be possible. Please ask him to read the transcript of the

1 (14m 23s):
coal Witch Hunt Trump has also been relying on this talking point lately that the call is actually okay, and if you just read the call summary document released The White House, which he keeps calling the transcript then it'll be totally fine. And it's a bit weird because when that document was released it was widely viewed as terribly damning for the president, but he is now just attempted to I guess just

2 (14m 52s):
assert I made a call the call was perfect. There was no quid pro quo. There was nothing

1 (14m 59s):
nothing to see here move along. Look at this. I did nothing wrong and when in fact a lot of people I think that it shows you did quite a lot wrong

3 (15m 10s):
then Min testified on Tuesday today a cat named Tim Morrison testified. Who's he Morrison is another

1 (15m 18s):
National Security Council staffer and he was the top staffer handling Russian and European issues. And he is actually leaving the NSC. We're just broke Wednesday night about that and so in his testimony his opening statement is now out And he doesn't really go out of his way to make President Trump look bad, but he did confirm some pretty ugly underlying facts that other more hostile Witnesses have laid out most specifically he confirmed that Ukraine was in fact told in September that if they wanted to get their military aid, they needed to investigate Charisma the natural gas company that Hunter Biden sat on the board

3 (16m 4s):
of and to Moors and like is a Bolton guy, right? Right. Yeah is Bolton going to testify

1 (16m 9s):
so on Wednesday night the house Democrats sent a request to Bolton to testify they asked him to show up next week and Bolton's lawyer quickly responded by saying that he would only show up if he was subpoenaed. However, there is a lawsuit going on right now by an aide who is close to Bolton. And in fact using the same lawyer as him, this Aid has sued both the house. And the Trump Administration and is basically asking a federal judge to tell him what to do. Should he testify as the house says or should he not as the Trump Administration says so Bolton may be waiting for this case to resolve itself before testifying or not testifying.

1 (16m 56s):
It's interesting because you know, he's a hardcore conservative. He's mad at Trump, but he also supports like executive power. He doesn't like Democrats so I don't know which way Way, he hates everyone in this whole

3 (17m 9s):
Saga irrespective of whether or not Bolton testifies is the fact that you've got military personnel saying that this transcript is incomplete and what transpired was actually far more incriminating the fact that this has now become official. Is that going to sway any Republicans and does it even matter? This is going to happen,

1 (17m 28s):
right? It definitely looks like the house is going to impeach Trump at this point. The factual picture is Add enough as it is that the votes already seem to be there. So definitely bet on Trump being impeached at this point. But the question of the Senate is a tougher one. It takes two thirds to remove Trump from Office. The Republicans have a majority in the Senate as it is, so that means you need 20 Senate Republicans to vote to remove Trump from office. And right now we're not seeing anything close to that Mitt Romney is still the only senator Who is kind of openly defying the White House here and saying there's some very concerning stuff all the others are trying to continue to dodge this in part because they say they're going to be jurors eventually

3 (18m 22s):
jurors.

1 (18m 24s):
Yeah, that's their official role. The house is the prosecutor and impeachment and the Senate is essentially a jury. So Senators consider themselves jurors, and a lot of the Republican Senators have used this. A convenient excuse to avoid talking about this scandal in any way whatsoever.

3 (18m 41s):
Well, I look forward to having you back to talk about the jurors Andrew. Happy Halloween.

1 (18m 46s):
The Senate has a lot of rural jurors.

2 (18m 49s):
Ah, the rural juror. That is something

1 (18m 55s):
that's a 30 Rock reference.

2 (19m 4s):
The show is over, but the fun is ready to begin. I guess today

3 (19m 13s):
was senior correspondent Andrew

2 (19m 15s):
Pro corms today explained is hosted by Sean ramus Phantom. Our executive producer is Irene. No spooky the show is produced by Richard. Karthi, I'm in a real scary. No, I'm hasson fear and Halima share our engineer is a theme the scream Shapiro. We also had to help this week from Jared Poltergeist and Matt Fresca. I mean fried sicko fact-checking by Olivia hedstrom and our music is composed by by the quite mundane brake master cylinder today hex planed is produced in association with Witcher and we are part of the Fox Media pod casket Network.

3 (20m 26s):
Did you hear that Edward Snowden recently? Sat down with Joe Rogan for like a three hour Marathon interview? Did you hear that and go like damn I would really like to listen to that interview. But I really don't like Joe Rogan I have incredible news for you. If so, Kara Swisher of recode just did a Marathon interview with Edward Snowden the to discuss everything from what it's like living in Russia to his views on the relationship between Knighted states tech companies and the US government what he thinks about The Whistleblower complaint that just launched the entire impeachment inquiry against President Donald Trump and how it compares to his own experiences was a blur they talked about so many things and as per usual Kara Swisher does not hold back this episode Snowden Swisher.

3 (21m 13s):
It drops in the recode decode feed tomorrow Friday November 1st. If you're not subscribed to Rico decode now is the time you'll get a nice little alert maybe a little notification tomorrow when this episode goes live find it on Apple podcasts find it on Spotify find it on Stitcher find it wherever you don't listen to The Joe Rogan Experience.