1 (2s):
On Friday, a judge in Texas banned the most used abortion pill in the country. Literally minutes later, a judge in Washington state said the FDA had to maintain access to the drug. On Monday, over 400 drug executives blasted the ruling from that Texas judge saying it was sowing chaos in the pharmaceutical industry,

2 (22s):
The stakes here are very significant. If this ruling stands, it would have a nationwide impact, even in states where abortion is legal and that would dramatically reduce access to the most common form of abortion in this country.

1 (37s):
Chaos is probably the best word to describe abortion access in the United States right now from California where lawmakers are doing everything they can to turn the state into an abortion sanctuary to Idaho, where you can now go to prison for driving a minor to get an abortion in California. We're gonna take stock of the chaos on today, explained Anna North, senior correspondent at Vox. We're gonna get into the politics of this issue in a bit, but first, tell us what is going on with abortion pills in America right now, cuz it feels like we got a lot of news in the past few days.

3 (1m 19s):
Yes, there's certainly a lot going on. So first up, late last week, a judge in Texas in this very highly anticipated federal case, suspended the food and drug administration's approval of Mifepristone, which is one of the most widely used abortion medications in the country.

4 (1m 36s):
When we think of abortion, we often think of a type of surgery, but according to the c d C, more than half of all abortions rely on medication. And this ruling in Texas could dramatically change that.

1 (1m 48s):
Okay. And then there was another case.

3 (1m 50s):
That's right. So almost simultaneously, a judge in Washington ruled essentially that the F D A has to keep Mifepristone that same drug on the market in 17 states

5 (2m 3s):
Minutes after the Texas judge's decision on Friday night, a federal judge in Washington state with equal authority dropping a contradictory ruling ordering the FDA to maintain access to the drug.

1 (2m 15s):
Okay, so just totally right out the gate. Confusing. Let's just start with Mifepristone. For those who are not in the know, remind us, is this a new drug, an old drug, a new controversy? An old controversy?

3 (2m 28s):
Yeah. Mifepristone is extremely not new. It was approved for use in the US in 2000. Okay. And it's been used in medication abortions basically since then. Medication abortion is very, very common in the us. More than half of abortions today are medication abortions and pretty much all of those currently use Mifepristone.

1 (2m 50s):
And perhaps most importantly here is this drug safe.

3 (2m 53s):
Yes. According to doctors OBGYN's experts, it's very safe. The rate of severe side effects is very low.

6 (2m 60s):
The FDA argued the drug went through a four year approval process and 99.9% of patients are treated without any adverse reaction.

3 (3m 10s):
It's worth noting there are lots of drugs on the market today, common drugs that you might say are much more dangerous than this drug.

1 (3m 16s):
So who is this Texas judge and on what grounds did this judge make this ruling late last week?

3 (3m 23s):
So the judge's name is Matthew Kame. He is a conservative judge in Texas. He's also known for his opposition to abortions.

7 (3m 30s):
He was actually an anti-abortion movement lawyer before he was appointed to the bench. And I think what's interesting about this decision is you really see that it's steeped in really what can only be called Christian extremism.

3 (3m 42s):
And he's also handed down some rulings that have been friendly to conservatives in a number of other recent cases. In this case, basically the argument of the plaintiffs, the folks who wanted to get rid of this abortion drug, they argued that back in 2000, the F D A bowed to political pressure and you know, should never have approved this drug. And it was a political decision. And so now we should reverse this and take it off the market.

1 (4m 8s):
And, and just to remind people, the F D A approved this drug like over two decades ago.

3 (4m 13s):
Correct? This was, I believe under the Clinton administration, but the sort of coalition of anti-abortion groups going by the name, the Alliance for Hippocratic Medicine, their argument is this was always bad, should never have happened. You know, this was a political decision. This medication is bad for people. Again, we don't have scientific evidence for this. All the scientific evidence is that this drug is quite safe. They say it's bad and that you know, should never be on the market. The FDA should never have said yes to this. And Judge Kame essentially agrees, essentially says yes. Okay.

5 (4m 47s):
In this 67 page opinion filed Friday, the US district judge said the court does not second guess FDA's decision making lightly. But here FDA acquiesced on its legitimate safety concerns in violation of its statutory duty based on plainly unsound reasoning and studies that did not support its conclusions.

3 (5m 8s):
He said the F D A needs to rescind the approval for this drug, but he also stays his own ruling for seven days. Hmm. Sort of giving a little grace period, assuming that there's going to be an appeal saying, you know, folks who disagree have this amount of time to appeal it before my ruling actually goes into effect.

1 (5m 24s):
So was it appealed immediately or? Yeah,

8 (5m 27s):
The Justice Department now appealing the case as the Biden administration promises a fight.

9 (5m 32s):
This is not America. What you saw by that one judge in that one court, in that one state, that's not America.

3 (5m 38s):
We're in a little bit of a weird period timing wise. Basically for the week after csme issues the decision, it's not really in effect. That means nothing changes. The abortion medication is still legal, you can still get it. Nothing is really different. While we wait to see what happens with these appeals, and depending on how the appeals go, there could be a further stay. So it's possible that this drug will remain on the market for a long time while the courts work through

1 (6m 5s):
This. And if the ruling is successful, what happens then?

3 (6m 10s):
So ultimately, if what the judge ruled stands, if the ruling is successful, then Mifepristone would be off the market. That means that it no longer has f D a approval. It means that doctors can't prescribe it. You can't get it at a pharmacy, at least for an

1 (6m 26s):
Abortion. And that's not just in Texas, that's across the entire United States.

3 (6m 30s):
Exactly. So it basically would be taken off the market throughout the country, not just in Texas, not just in places where abortion is banned, not just in places that are red states, but everywhere. Because what it targets is the decision by the F D A, which is a, you know, federal agency. Now that said, it wouldn't be illegal to have it, it wouldn't be illegal to take it, but a doctor wouldn't be able to say, okay, you're seeking an abortion, I'm gonna write you this prescription.

1 (6m 55s):
Got it. And meanwhile, on the same day we get a ruling out of Washington state also about MFA christone. What does that one say?

3 (7m 3s):
Correct. So this is basically a competing ruling judge in Washington says the F D A may not remove from the market MFA Christone, the F D A has to keep it available Hmm. In these 17 states. So it doesn't apply all over the country. But the trick is that since the Texas ruling does apply all over the country, here's the conflict Texas judges saying this should be off the market everywhere. Washington ruling is saying this should be on the market in a number of places. So, hmm. Now there's a conflict and that means basically a higher court kind of has to get involved because it's not supposed to be the case in America that like there are two different sets of laws that are fighting with each other.

3 (7m 43s):
That's what the courts are for.

1 (7m 45s):
By higher court, do you mean perhaps the Supreme Court that reversed Roe v. Wade with the Dobbs decision last year and said, leave it up to the states, we're not gonna get involved anymore.

3 (7m 55s):
Right. So for abortion rights supporters, the legal options don't look super rosy. The courts that could get involved with a fifth Circuit, which has issued a number of conservative rulings, or the Supreme Court, which has also issued a number of conservative rulings and has a conservative majority right now. So those are the choices. It's not at all clear that MFA Pistone's approval will survive, you know, this period of legal fighting. But I also wouldn't completely count it out because there's really no precedent for a court getting involved with what the F D A does. You know, a federal judge is not really supposed to be like, take this drug off the market, take that drug off the market, you did a bad job, F D A, I'm gonna tell you what to do.

3 (8m 40s):
And if a judge does start doing that, it has a bunch of kind of concerning implications for the whole country. And like for medicine,

10 (8m 48s):
How is it that one person, one judge, with no medical degree, no science degree, can make a decision about a drug that has been used, that has been safe and proven effective.

1 (9m 10s):
More with Anna North in a minute on today explained.

12 (9m 34s):
Hey, this is Sean Illing. I'm the host of the Vox Podcast, the gray area where we take a philosophical look at culture, politics, and the world. Basically I get to talk with really smart people about big ideas for a living and it's pretty awesome. And a great thing about working at Vox is that everything we do is free and accessible to everyone. Vox has been free since it was founded nine years ago, and we want to keep it that way for years to come. You can help us do that by making a contribution today. Making a contribution supports what we do here at the gray area. It helps keep Vox free and it makes us less dependent on advertising and that's a really good thing for everyone.

12 (10m 17s):
Go to vox.com/give. There's a link in the show notes. Thanks for your support.

13 (10m 31s):
I'm Preed Barara, the former US attorney in Manhattan. My podcast stay tuned is about law, justice and politics. The Manhattan District Attorney's case against Donald Trump is one of the most consequential, legal and political stories of our time. So this week I was joined by two top legal experts, former US Attorney Joyce Vance and Law Fair editor Ben Wits, to analyze the charges.

14 (10m 55s):
While I don't think this is a no-brainer case to bring, I do think there is a fairly solid basis for it.

13 (11m 4s):
The potential evidence,

15 (11m 6s):
I think the jury hearing the evidence that at least if brag can prove what he's laid out in the statement of facts, the evidence will be compelling on these charges.

13 (11m 16s):
And where we go from here, it's not clear that a conviction on one or more of these felony counts would result in prison sentence or a substantial prison sentence to listen. Just search. Stay tuned wherever you get your podcasts. New episodes drop every Thursday. Stay tuned.

1 (11m 42s):
Today Explained is back with Vox Anna, north Anna. So we talked about the fight over abortion pills in America right now, especially in light of this ruling from a Texas judge on Friday. How does that fight fit into the broader fight over abortion access Right now? We've seen in the nine-ish months since the Dobbs ruling that overturned Roe v. Wade last year,

3 (12m 5s):
So after the end of Roe, what we expected to happen was that a bunch of states across the country would either outright ban or move to heavily restrict abortion. And that's happened.

16 (12m 19s):
13 states had a trigger ban in place in which abortions became illegal automatically. If and when It turns out Roe was overturned, nine other states had lost passed or enacted before this decision making them all but certain to ban abortion if they have not already. And in at least four additional states, the expectation is that they will issue some sort of a ban on abortion in the weeks ahead.

3 (12m 46s):
So states have been pretty successful at banning people from getting abortions within their states.

17 (12m 52s):
At the end of last month, republicans in Kentucky passed a bill to make it harder for women to get an abortion in that state. Previously Kentucky had had a a law in the books that said you couldn't get an abortion there if your pregnancy was more than 20 weeks along. This new law passed last month, rolled that back even further, said that you can no longer get an abortion in the state if your pregnancy is 15 weeks. Along or

3 (13m 15s):
Further Now some are trying another tactic, which is to actually ban their residents from getting abortions anywhere.

18 (13m 22s):
Texas law prohibits abortion except for medical emergencies. The lawsuit claims this creates confusion among doctors who refuse care and extreme cases outta fear of prosecution. So,

3 (13m 34s):
You know, for a lot of abortion opponents, it's not necessarily enough to say like, okay, you can't get an abortion in Texas. They would, number one, like to ban abortion nationwide. And if that can't happen, they would like to at least prevent Texans from getting abortions anywhere. There are a bunch of different tactics to try to keep residents of your state from getting abortions in other states. One that's been tried in Idaho recently is called an abortion trafficking law and it basically makes it illegal to get abortion pills for a minor or to help the minor leave the state for an abortion without a parent's consent.

15 (14m 10s):
In Idaho, the governor signed a controversial new law making it a felony for non-parent adults to help a minor cross state lines for an abortion. The first law of its kind nationwide.

3 (14m 21s):
So that person could actually face prison time, they could face two to five years in prison. They could also be sued by the mar minor's parent or guardian. The AP notes that parents who raped their child will not be able to sue. But all the other criminal penalties for anybody that helped that child get an abortion would still be in effect. So basically what we're looking at is even if a minor experiences rape and becomes pregnant, anybody who helps them get an abortion could go to prison.

1 (14m 51s):
Can states do this. Is there legal precedent for restricting what residents of one state do in another state regarding their own person?

3 (15m 3s):
This question is something that a lot of legal scholars were really worried and concerned about when Dobbs was sort of being decided. Cuz essentially Dobbs created two Americas where abortion is legal in one and illegal in the other. And then folks in the America where it's illegal wanna make it illegal in those other states too. So this is a really difficult legal conflict and it hasn't really been resolved. This is what's gonna be sort of worked out in the courts over the next coming months and years, is how much influence can lawmakers in one state have over what people go and do in a totally different place.

1 (15m 38s):
Now, on the flip side of a state like Idaho, you've got states like California that are doing everything in their power to protect abortion rights.

3 (15m 47s):
Exactly. So a number of states have sort of passed reproductive health laws to try to safeguard abortion rights.

5 (15m 53s):
Four states and the District of Columbia offer full protection without state interference throughout a woman's entire pregnancy. And additional 12 states permit abortion prior to viability or when necessary to protect the life or health of the pregnant woman. And

3 (16m 9s):
There have been some interesting recent development. So for example, in Michigan, now Michigan was one of the states that folks expected after Dobbs would ban abortion. But actually in November 22 voters there approved an amendment to the constitution to protect abortion rights.

19 (16m 26s):
Michigan is now the first state in the nation to pass an affirmative citizen-led constitutional amendment to guarantee the right to an abortion,

3 (16m 35s):
Which means it would be really hard to ban abortion in Michigan. Then in Wisconsin there's been sort of an interesting legal fight, which is that Wisconsin has a pre-roe abortion ban on the books, the

20 (16m 47s):
Lawsuit naming top Republican leaders. As defendants argues, the 1849 law conflicts with other laws since passed, including a ban on abortions after 20 weeks or viability and other laws on how doctors should perform

3 (17m 0s):
Abortions. The Attorney general has said he's not gonna enforce it, he's suing to get the ban struck down. Yeah,

21 (17m 6s):
Well our argument is that abortion is legal I in Wisconsin right now, but the court does declare that the old band is not enforceable then. Then it will be clear that that access to safe and legal abortion has been restored in

3 (17m 19s):
Wisconsin. It has sort of been unclear what was gonna happen and the suit could go before the Wisconsin Supreme Court. And then of course in a recent Supreme Court election, liberals actually won a majority on that Wisconsin Supreme Court. So it's possible that Wisconsin will become, you know, sort of a more abortion rights friendly state than perhaps people would've expected.

1 (17m 38s):
I'm glad you brought up elections, Anna, because I I wanted to ask you, you know, you mentioned the, the Wisconsin race from last week. You mentioned the midterms from last year, and there's this sense that Democrats are succeeding where they may have previously failed because of this issue, because of abortion. Do we have any hard data that says this issue is swinging elections right now and it's swinging them in the direction of Democrats?

3 (18m 3s):
I do think there's a growing sense both among Democrats and among Republicans that abortion could be a winning issue for Democrats.

22 (18m 14s):
I'm staunchly pro-life. I have a hundred percent pro-life voting record. I do think that it, it will be an issue in November if we're not moderating ourselves, that we are including exceptions for women who've been raped, for girls who are victims of incest. And certainly in every instance where the life of the mother is at

3 (18m 30s):
Stake. I sometimes hate to put it in such sort of bald terms because it's obviously this is like a really, you know, crucial thing for patients and their lives. But it's also a crucial thing about politics and of course politics affects patients and their lives and yeah, I mean we've seen a number of cases where abortion has seemed to tip the scales. You know, you can look for example at the Pennsylvania governor's race where the Republican candidate really promised to heavily restrict abortion and the Democrat won in Pennsylvania. And that felt like a bellwether to a lot of people that, you know, Pennsylvania doesn't want an abortion ban. And if you look at nationwide polling, you know, abortion polling is complicated. People tend to favor restrictions in the second and third trimesters.

3 (19m 14s):
But what's generally not popular is outright banning abortion in the first trimester. Most people don't wanna do that. Roe v Wade was really popular. Most people didn't want it to be overturned. So Republicans are in a difficult buying nationwide right now where they won, they got what they wanted, but what they wanted actually wasn't something that was popular with the majority of the country.

22 (19m 35s):
On the far right, we have states that are trying to ensure that no abortion for any reason, including rape and incest victims and girls, and that's not okay with the electorate either.

1 (19m 47s):
So help us understand why then Republican judges, Republican lawmakers across this country in over 20 states are so doggedly pursuing what some would consider draconian abortion laws and restrictions.

3 (20m 3s):
Yeah, I mean this is complicated. I think we're in a political climate where for a long time there was really no penalty for Republicans to be as anti-abortion as possible and there was also a benefit to be as anti-abortion as possible. So in a pre-roll landscape, you could win, especially a primary election as a Republican by just going as far to the right on abortion as you possibly could.

23 (20m 26s):
Blake Masters has made his dangerous ideas on abortion easy to understand.

24 (20m 31s):
Think Grove v Wade was wrong. I think it's always been wrong. It's a religious sacrifice to these people. I think it's demonic.

23 (20m 39s):
For Blake taking away healthcare freedom for Arizona women is just the beginning.

24 (20m 44s):
I actually think we should go further. Federal government needs to step in and say, no state can prevent abortion. You make it illegal and you punish the Doctors

0 (20m 51s):
Blake

3 (20m 52s):
Masters. We might be starting now to see that shift because now there's consequences. Right? For a long time Roe v Wade was in effect. And so there was this natural limit on what could really happen with your abortion policy. So you could say a lot of things and it just wasn't gonna come to pass. Now these laws are actually affecting people's lives.

25 (21m 11s):
The attorneys told the doctors that because of the fetal heartbeat bill, because that 15 week old had a heartbeat. The doctors could not extract. The doctor told me at that point, she's gonna pass this fetus in the toilet. She's gonna have to deal with that on her own. There's a 50% chance greater than 50% chance that she's gonna lose her uterus. There's a 10% chance that she will develop sepsis and herself die. That weighs on me. I voted for that bill.

3 (21m 40s):
We've seen a lot of stories that I think have caused a lot of bipartisan outrage, including stories of people who are having miscarriages that they can't appropriately treat because they can't get access to care that could also be used in an abortion. You know, people with pregnancies that are nonviable who are getting really sick, who are having their fertility impacted. You know, reproductive health activists would point out like these are not by any means the only stories of abortion. Plenty of people just want an abortion because they wanna terminate a pregnancy. But I, I do think there have been these sort of cases where even pretty anti-abortion voters didn't fully anticipate what the consequences would be of ending Roe v Wade after decades.

3 (22m 24s):
Even though this is something that a lot of Republicans were pushing for for a long time. I'm not sure that anyone fully knew exactly what it would look like. And now we're all finding out what it does look like. And I think there's the potential there for a real political reckoning. You know, I think for a long time for Republican lawmakers and then, you know, the Supreme Court also sort of made this argument that abortion should be a state's issue. We'll leave it up to the states to decide. I think what we have seen is that is chaos, that this has put states directly in conflict with one another. It's put courts directly in conflict with one another and the Supreme Court may have no choice but to step in again because the country is, you know, sort of an ideological and legal war over this issue.

3 (23m 14s):
And it's not necessarily a tenable situation for there to be one set of laws in one place and one set of laws in another place. Especially on something that is so fraught and so crucial to a lot of people. I would add too that, you know, it's always been sort of an argument on the right to say, let's let the states decide list, let's let the states handle it. That's had a certain appeal. You know, like almo almost like if you like your health insurance, you can keep it sort of, oh well in California, you know, if you like your, your abortion rights, you can keep it. But it's also been a little bit of a red herring because of course for, for people who are very serious abortion opponents, they would like to see a nationwide band.

3 (23m 57s):
They, they wanna see this band everywhere because they view it as murder. I similarly, you know, to be fair for people who are, you know, very strong abortion rights advocates, they don't wanna see it banned in some places that's not really acceptable. Like for them that would feel, that does feel that people have fewer rights in one state than in another. So it's never really been something that's been very amenable to a state's rights approach. And I think we're seeing that now

1 (24m 25s):
And that's how you end up with a Texas judge trying to reverse an FDA decision from over 20 years ago that will affect the entire country.

3 (24m 35s):
Exactly.

1 (24m 47s):
You can read Anna north@vox.com. Our show today was produced by Aha Artsy and Haddi Ma Wadi with help from Matthew Collette, Patrick Boyd, Laura Bullard, and Amanda Lou Ellen. I'm Sean Ramos Fur. This is today Explained.