3 (34s):
Something's different in Washington DC today. But you kind of have to squint to notice all along Pennsylvania Avenue around the Capitol building. This city has hung u.s. Flags on lamp posts. And this is the thing you'd never notice instead of 50 stars. The flags have 51 and that 51st star is for the District of

1 (55s):
Columbia. To say the time for Statehood for Washington DC is now we want everybody across these United States of America to know that we are just like them we pay taxes just like they do we send our people to war just like they do more than 200,000 washingtonians have paid the ultimate sacrifice fighting for democracy around the world and they demand stay put now

2 (1m 49s):
we got no representation and we pay all this money for taxation. It's kind of ridiculous that that was the whole point of this country. So and we don't get it so It does make sense that the district should be represented by voting member of Congress. The House of Representatives passed such legislation. Just recently the problem is that it's patently unconstitutional.

1 (2m 16s):
This time tyranny still exist until that 51st star goes up there. It's

2 (2m 24s):
our desire for democracy just doesn't override our common agreement to abide by the rule of the

1 (2m 30s):
Constitution. If the vote means that much to you, you're going to have to move to a real state

3 (2m 43s):
today. The House of Representatives has its first hearing on DC statehood in almost 30 years Representatives will be talking about House Bill 51 get it it would provide for the admission of the state of Washington DC in to the union. But before we get there, we have to establish why washingtondc isn't another state in the Union why it's just a district of federal district. I asked Derek Musgrove. He's one of the authors of chocolate City a history of race and democracy. Accuracy in the nation's

2 (3m 17s):
capital so that the origins of that idea of a federal district outside of the purview of any state really has its origins in a protest by Pennsylvania Revolutionary War soldiers decommissioned at this point in 1783. They hadn't been paid. They headed to the state house to protest to the governor that they should be paid and along the way they actually passed Congress. The folks that were in the building essentially call Congress in the session. They don't have a quorum. They say that these soldiers had mutinied and had Menace them and the soldiers did Menace them a little bit.

2 (4m 4s):
They sort of made fun of them. You know, they shouted epithets in the windows out them what they draw from that sort of made-up crisis is that they should not be beholden to a state Governor our state legislature for their own protection and for managing the place where they meet the federal town or the federal district and so roughly starting about 1783. They come up with the idea that there should be a federal district set off from the states that is completely and totally under the purview of Congress. And that's the sort of The Germ of the idea that leads to eventually Washington DC.

3 (4m 45s):
But this is going to be a place where people live where there's Commerce where there's Interstate travel and and all sorts of needs who's going to figure all that stuff out is Congress going to govern this town or from the outset. Is there an idea of how this will all

2 (5m 1s):
work? There's not a clear idea. There is the expectation among all these folks that the residents of the federal town or the federal district will have access to democratic governance, but they never come up with a clear plan for how it's going to happen. Hmm. So Congress moves to Town from Philadelphia and they say well now we're here we now are going to take this area which used to be parts of Maryland. And Virginia is essentially a 10 Mile Square straddling the Potomac and Anacostia rivers and we are going to place it under the federal jurisdiction by doing that however, and not presenting a plan whereby the people within that Federal District.

2 (5m 44s):
Representation in Congress, they effectively strip the residents of the District of a voting Congress because if you're no longer in a state well, then you have no way of voting for member of the house or a member of the Senate.

3 (5m 56s):
So how does this sit people start settling this federal district where they don't have any federal

2 (6m 3s):
representation initially. You have a situation where a look the city's got absolutely no access to governance and many white DC residents are perfectly happy with that. Particularly Elite white DC residents. Why is that because they get all this money from the federal government in the form of the Congressional payment and most importantly black folks don't vote. I mean, they really saw that is a danger to governance in the city and some of them in fact didn't want poor whites to vote either. And so so that was that was a plus for them as well. Yeah, and they figured look we can sit down with Business Leaders. We can sit down with members of Congress smoke a few cigars drink a little Bourbon and we can run the city.

2 (6m 44s):
Just through these great personal relationships that we have. That's the best way to run a city. But if you start bringing in the rabble the African Americans who are laying pavement out there on Pennsylvania Avenue or the Irish mechanics who are you know, doing work down by the canal in Georgetown. If you bring them into the conversation, they'll ruin American democracy and specifically DC local democracy this way we can keep them out. Hmm. Now those out groups those groups that were that were seen as a threat by these Elites began demanding some type of vote pretty early on starting in the late 19th century. Labor leaders African Americans begin asking for home rule.

2 (7m 26s):
They wanted a local government. Yeah, and they're consistently pushed back all the way through the late 19th century the early 20th century and they can't get the whole pot. They can't get a city council the mayor and so what Advocates of returning democracy to the district do is they essentially piecemeal it and so the first major success in the effort to gain some voting back in the district is in 1960. When a primarily white a group of lobbyists push for the 23rd Amendment which would give DC residents the vote in presidential elections, and that is passed very quickly within a year.

2 (8m 7s):
The first presidential election that we vote in is 1964.

1 (8m 11s):
I speak tonight for the Dignity of man and the destiny of democracy. I urge every member of both parties. Americans of all religions and of all colors from every section of this country to join me in that cause

2 (8m 42s):
after that 1971 you get the non-voting delegate election. And then the big one comes in 1974 with the home rule election where we get a city council and the mayor and so a hundred years after the end of reconstruction. Not only do we have a mayor in a DC Council that are elected by their citizens, but the citizenry is roughly at this point seventy percent black and the people who sit on that Council and who go into the mayor's office are almost to a man and woman civil rights black power and anti-poverty activists. And so not only does DC get democracy, but really it gets representatives of all of the major social movements of the 1960's in

1 (9m 21s):
government.

3 (9m 31s):
So after DC gets local representation the question shifts to Federal representation. How does DC do it?

2 (9m 40s):
There's literally three ways to do it. First is you retro seed to Maryland. Another option is to alter the Constitution to get DC treated as though it were a state in Congress for the matters of representation. Right? So DC

3 (9m 57s):
has electoral votes from the 23rd Amendment back in the 1960s, but this is saying let's get DC voting members in the house and the Senate what's number three third one was statehood

2 (10m 9s):
third one is just straight statehood straight statehood. And that's obviously the biggest ask and it's also the ask right now

3 (10m 15s):
in House Bill 51, how's it initially received back? Then

2 (10m 20s):
State hooded never been a particularly well-regarded strategy in the district up until the 1970s people were just focused on trying to get home. Waller just trying to get representation in Congress. I mean, they never thought that big and then in 1969 a bunch of black power activists Chuck Stone was editor of the afro newspaper Jesse Anderson, who's a local Episcopal priest and Julius Hobson famous local black power activists held a news conference formed a DC statehood committee and said look we are going to make sure we get statehood by any means necessary paraphrasing Malcolm X and this is a 1969 and their announcement really went nowhere.

1 (11m 5s):
We profess to favor freedom in here and we will not depreciate agitation. So statehood party, let's go and let's keep it together.

2 (11m 19s):
The ideas for the percolates out there largely through their activism through the 1970s, but then Julia sobs and dies of cancer in 1977 in the statehood Party begins to fall apart. And so here you have a situation where statehood kind of follows this very specific Trail, which is that people come up with the idea. It resonates just a little bit but it never gets a critical mass and then it begins to recede. What's the

3 (11m 41s):
closest DC's ever been to stated

2 (11m 45s):
to statehood You could argue now the DC Vote which is under the able stewardship of bow Chef who's a very talented political

3 (11m 55s):
operator representation is fundamental to democracy. It's fundamental to how we were founded. We were founded to end taxation with no rep without representation

2 (12m 5s):
and you know, he and his team at DC Vote have been able to gain well over 200 co-sponsors for a statehood bill in the House Representatives

1 (12m 15s):
the oversight committee today will hold its first house hearing and more than Quarter-century on legislation to make the District of Columbia America's 51st state

3 (12m 25s):
what's standing in the way? I'm gonna go on a limb here and say Republicans

2 (12m 30s):
Republicans have since 1980. Every single for years stated unequivocally in their party platform that they oppose representation in Congress. However, it may be achieved for the residents of the District of Columbia. In fact in a lot of those party platforms particularly in the 1990s. They actually cheerleaded for a rollback of home rule and John Kasich sort of laid out why that would be in 2016 when he sat down for an interview with the Washington Post. He just said look it's a non-starter. That's just two more votes in the senate for the Democratic party. It's not going to happen the other post sort of pushed back and said there's 700,000 people who live there who are American citizens and he's like, yeah, it's not going to

1 (13m 15s):
happen.

2 (13m 19s):
And so, you know, could you accuse one party of partisanship? Yes, and you could accuse the other party of partisanship. I think that what DC residents have to figure out in the midst of all this is how they get forward the idea that these are 700,000. Again citizens who should have the right to have representation in their National legislation. They just absolutely

1 (13m 42s):
should.

3 (13m 58s):
You know DC does have a representative in Congress who just doesn't get to vote on bills. Her name's Eleanor Holmes Norton and I'll speak with her after this message. Mom, yes sure, you know where we are right now? Yes, Los Angeles California true, but we're also in the middle of the episode 400 episode of today explained you're stealing my thunder your to up on Twitter.

3 (14m 42s):
Yes. Today is our 400 episode on the occasion of your 400th podcast episode. You're allowed to ask listeners for a big huge favor. So I'm going to ask you because you're a listener and you're standing right here. Could you Mom on the occasion of our 400th episode? Make sure you tell all your friends about this great podcast that you love call today explained. I will I will ask them to download today explained on Stitcher Spotify and apple great and you can ask them to subscribe to ask them to subscribe. You already do this. Don't you I have already done so many of my friends are listening to you. When you go to tell people to listen, where do you do it when I meet people I taught them on Twitter.

3 (15m 29s):
Facebook Instagram nice telephone telephone. What about IRL? I do, you know about IRL. You don't know you can't whisper. They can't hear, you

1 (15m 40s):
know, I don't know what

3 (15m 41s):
IRL is in real life. Mom your life. Wow. I thought I learned something today. Great to see you in real life. Thanks, Mom. You're welcome. Bye. Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton, how long have you been fighting for DC statehood my say probably since I was a child no, I'm a native Washingtonian, but I've been fighting for DC statehood ever since I entered the Congress almost 30 years ago and I actually got a hearing on DC statehood then but we are a lot closer to getting DC statehood.

3 (16m 26s):
Now, what else is in the bill? What will DC get once it gets this first round of statehood. Well the most important things that gets a two senators and a full voting house members. Actually we get the same per capita in federal funds right now. And in many ways, I have the very same rights that every other member of Congress has but the people I represent don't because they don't have a final vote on legislation in the House of Representatives and they have nobody to vote for M in the Senate of the United States. I'm sure you hear the arguments against statehood every day.

3 (17m 9s):
One of the ones you hear most often is DC is not a state. It's a city. What's your stock response to that one? Well, the Constitution doesn't say what a state looks like. For example, we have more residents than Vermont and Wyoming we pay we of the District of Columbia pay more taxes per capita than any state in the Union right now. Then those who live in New York or California or Florida or you name the state you would like that alone or entitled listen statehood.

3 (17m 50s):
You mentioned the Constitution. What about the argument that DC becoming a state would just straight-up be unconstitutional that the founders wanted the capital to be its own? Inge not another chunk of land with Federal representation with senators and Congress members. Well, the federal Enclave would become your Capital. It means it will be smaller, but you'll still have a capital. You mean

2 (18m 19s):
like a little

3 (18m 20s):
slice of the National Mall from the capitol to the White House to the Lincoln Memorial or what they are about. Yes. Okay, and then the rest of DC would be the 51st state the private homes and businesses that surround the Federal in on clade would be Washington Douglas Commonwealth Washington DC. Yeah as in Frederick Douglass as in Frederick Douglass Frederick Douglass, by the way was a great champion of equal rights for the District of Columbia. And that is very interesting when you consider that he's known most for championing the end of slavery, you know, I wonder if This house bill HB 51 does indeed pass and you know, it's sort of a landmark moment for this movement.

3 (19m 11s):
It's still going to most likely meet serious resistance from the republican-controlled Senate from the president. Do you think it will ever actually happen? Of course, it's gonna happen today. I've just come into the house hot sunny day. If the house would have passed a bill today saying it's hot and sunny. You couldn't get that bill passed the Senate before so I'm not anyways word about the senate for two reasons when we get this bill to the house for the first time in 200 18 years will be more than halfway there.

3 (19m 51s):
Secondly, what makes you think the Republicans are going to keep control of the senate in 2020. Are you dreaming if you know, I guess one of the fears Republicans have here, is that the if Wherever to approve statehood for DC. They just be handing over, you know, two votes in the Senate that would forever be blue that would forever be Democratic votes. Do you think if DC's population were a little more politically diverse that Republicans might be more in favor of DC statehood. It is certainly true that it has been controversial play every state to get into the Union at usually took two states coming in at the same times.

3 (20m 35s):
So that people were assured that there would be some evenness. Look we understand we're breaking the mold. We are City we trying to become a state and a lot of parting of the more Waters will have to take place. We already see that beginning to happen. You know, I used to live here 10 years ago in DC and obviously I live here again now and I noticed one change. I mean, I noticed a few changes of the city between those intervening eight or nine years in Like a lot more Whole Foods, but one other thing I noticed was the license plates went from saying, you know District of Columbia taxation without representation to now they say District of Columbia and taxation without representation.

3 (21m 18s):
Did you have anything to do with that decision now, the district knows what to do. That was all the district, huh? Yeah, as we got closer and closer to the district understood that we need to speak directly to the millions of tourists who come into our city. It kind of makes me laugh because now it's sort of like even if you don't want DC statehood, but if you live in DC you have to drive around if you have a car with this political statement that maybe supports a cause that you don't believe in do you ever meet people whom you represent in the Congress who don't want statehood people who live here in DC who don't want statehood.

3 (22m 1s):
Have you ever met? Any Americans who wanted to play taxes without representation? I wanted to have only a House member who didn't have a final vote on the house floor who wanted not to have two senators to go to the that person does not exist. So you think you think you think it'd be impossible to find a single resident of the District of Columbia who isn't in favor of statehood who doesn't want statehood if there's a resident who doesn't want statehood she could write to me, but I have yet to hear from that the resident hmm interesting. And I guess because this has been an issue so close to use for 30 years now and long before that even but 30 years at least in the Congress.

3 (22m 47s):
I wonder what do you think it would mean to you and to the rest of the District of Columbia as it's currently called to finally achieve statehood, it would have harassed both practical and psychological consequences. Frankly practical consequent Winters. We've been talking about you and I but psychological consequences to who wants to live in a country where you are treated less equally than any other resident of the country.

3 (23m 28s):
Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton represents the District of Columbia in the House of Representatives as a non-voting delegate, but she would love to change that. I want to welcome everyone to this historic hearing on HR 51 legislation. That would make Washington DC our nation's 51st state. I think our Founders wisely gave us a federal City for the purposes of the federal government and when that is mixed up with and intertwined with state government is going to get messy and are our Founders had the wisdom to give us a federal City in which to do Federal Business the argument that well the Constitution never envisioned people voting in DC.

3 (24m 20s):
Yeah, they never envisioned Civ modern Metropolis of 700,000 people and had they I know Madison would be the first to line up and give you the vote not as a privilege not because you fought for the country, but because as Americans, it's you are

1 (24m 37s):
right.

3 (24m 43s):
I'm Sean Rama's room. This is episode for hundo of today explained. Thank you for listening.