3 (3s):
all those in favor of the resolution that the resolution pass vote aye Virginia took a historic vote this week eyes 59 Nays 4 T 1 abstention 0

1 (16s):
for the women of Virginia and the women of America the resolution has finally The excitement in the room was palpable because it took a long time to get to this

3 (29s):
point a century after women secured their right to vote in the US a long legal battle. Maybe on the way over another Constitutional Amendment Congress now has to decide on what could be the 28th Amendment to the Constitution of the United

1 (44s):
States. The Equal Rights Amendment is meant to constitutionally prohibit discrimination based on sex, but it never received the 3/4 majority. ready needed for ratification until

3 (55s):
now but even if Congress gets on board with the Equal Rights Amendment, we are not exactly on the Cutting Edge of a quality here most constitutions around the world written in the 20th century have a provision that explicitly guarantees equality between women and men but ours does not Julie seok is a professor at the CUNY Graduate Center in Manhattan as the country inches closer to a constitutional amendment on On sex equality. She's writing a book about how we got here. It really starts at the moment of women's suffrage

1 (1m 33s):
and I are quick to register and both walk energetic suffered you hearin realize their own campaign is over in 1920 the 19th Amendment to the US Constitution was ratified. It prohibits

3 (1m 45s):
discrimination on grounds of sex when

1 (1m 47s):
it comes to the right of citizens to vote. Mike was officially over board antenna New York in 1848 the suffrage movement in the words of leader. Carrie Chapman Catt was a long story of hard work and heartaches but it was crowned by victory at least 1,000 legal and Maximus were necessary and everyone was a struggle against ignorance opposition.

3 (2m 13s):
Once that amendment was ratified there were some suffragists who believe that the next step was to have a constitutional amendment that more generally guaranteed equality of rights under the law that amendment was drafted by Alice Paul a suffragist in the early 1920s and was first introduced in Congress in 1923, but it really never got off the ground till 1972 So for 50 years, it was being discussed what happened in that interim well during this entire period That the real problem is that people are wondering whether or not if you have an amendment that guarantees equality whether it's ever okay to treat women differently because they are mothers and their unique disadvantages or unique situations having to do with women's reproductive capacities.

3 (3m 1s):
I think this is a question that's dump Society in general and certainly people in Congress throughout the 1920s 30s 40s and 50s by the time you get to the debates in the 1970s a consensus. Emerges that there are lot of laws that exclude women because of their traditional role. And so the amendment is clearly needed to reflect this new vision of women in society. There was a shift in the 1960s with the Civil Rights Movement. There was a lawyer who is active in the Civil Rights Movement Paulie, Marie. I

1 (3m 38s):
did a study a re-examination of the Fourteenth Amendment with regard to sex.

3 (3m 43s):
She was very interested in using progress that was made in race equality under equal protection to guarantee sex equality my strategy there was

1 (3m 54s):
that up until that time there had been Almost no possibility of the ratification of an equal rights amendment and that what we ought to do in the meantime was take advantage of the Fourteenth Amendment

3 (4m 8s):
it gets out to the floor of the House of Representatives for the first time in a long time when Martha Griffiths congresswoman from Michigan uses a discharge petition to get it onto the floor and once it's on the floor, it's supported by an overwhelming majority of the House of Representatives. That's in August 1970, right? For the 50th anniversary of the suffrage amendment. Just a couple of weeks after that there was a

1 (4m 36s):
huge women's strike in New York and in

3 (4m 38s):
many cities actually across the

1 (4m 40s):
country. The Battle Cry of the women's Liberation movement rings out down New York Fifth Avenue has more than 10,000 militant feminists tear your one-day strike for equal rights, and they really focused on equal employment opportunity for women Reproductive Rights and the right to childcare so that women could actually have equality in the workplace militants chose the 50th anniversary of the Constitutional Amendment giving women the vote the protest against all kinds of discrimination. Which day is saying they suffer in a world run largely by men?

1 (5m 20s):
There's called the women's strike for equality. It was organized by Betty for Dan is going to achieve a new politics in America our solidarity in our own behalf, and behalf of these aliens of complete equality. This will continue

3 (5m 34s):
Even though there was a lot of bipartisan support in the Senate there were efforts by the opponents of the era to try to add all kinds of crippling amendments to the ER a bill. And so they tried to put in a provision that would have said Congress can exempt women from the draft and they also put in a 7 year deadline on ratification. They made all these changes. They never actually voted on the bill and the ER a went to the legislative graveyard the legislative graveyard. Yes, so then the bill died and had to be reintroduced. List in the next session of Congress, but this is an important part of the story because it helps us understand why when the supporters of the ER a came back to Congress in early 1971.

3 (6m 16s):
They did actually put that 7 your deadline into the bill because they didn't want the bill to end up going to the legislative graveyard again. Hmm. They took the original er a guarantee of equality of Rights and they put in the seven-year a deadline and that was successful.

1 (6m 34s):
Tonight after a 49 years struggle of Constitutional Amendment appears on the way proclaiming once and for all that women have all the same rights as that other sex

3 (6m 45s):
what happened once both the house and the Senate approved the era. So there were 35 ratifications between 1972 and 1977. You know, New York, California a lot of the Midwestern states did ratify although not Illinois and Illinois was the home state Phyllis Schlafly who led Very effective stop era movement in the mid-1970s and that really slowed down the

1 (7m 9s):
ratification. What was Phyllis Schlafly sang

3 (7m 17s):
Phyllis Schlafly said that the era would destroy American motherhood.

1 (7m 22s):
It's a very great pleasure to be invited to visit with you for a while this afternoon and I would like also to thank my

3 (7m 29s):
husband Fred for letting me

1 (7m 31s):
come. I love to say that because it irritates the women's libbers more than anything I say

3 (7m 37s):
and I think the argument that the ER a would destroy the American family came from the mistaken notion that the ER Would require men and women to be treated the same under all circumstances. It was believed it would force women into the military.

1 (7m 52s):
We're just happy that John stennis said women would have to put on combat boots and March off to fight Wars just like man, North Carolina Sam Ervin said women would be slaughtered and Main by bombs and bullets just like men

3 (8m 5s):
it was believed then that the husband would never have a duty to support his

1 (8m 10s):
wife since the women are the ones who bear the babies and there's nothing we I knew about that our laws and customs then make it the financial obligation of the husband to provide the support. It is his obligation and his soul obligation and this is exactly and precisely what we will lose if the Equal Rights Amendment is

3 (8m 31s):
passed and that was actually not true the proponents understood that there would be a possibility of treating men and women differently for the purposes of childbearing leave for example, but there was Ask confusion about what the era would actually lead to. Hearing Schlafly talk about the libbers reminds me a little bit of like hearing contemporary conservatives talk about owning the libs different Libs different livers, obviously, but did Schlafly help turn this into a more partisan thing? So Phyllis Schlafly was also a real critic of the Republican party. She wrote a whole book criticizing the Republican party for not being true to its conservative heart and roots and that Inflamed a movement which culminated with the election of Ronald Reagan in 1980.

3 (9m 25s):
And so the stop er a movement was a very important part of the transformation of the Republican party. She really made the Stark divide between women's Liberation which she associated with liberals and Democrats and a vision of the Republican party that was much farther to the right and stood for family values. This division really made it so that you couldn't Have the kind of bipartisan collaboration all of that got lost with the stop, er a movement and Phyllis Schlafly is mobilization of American conservatism around the Republican party and on the other side, what were the proponents of the ER a saying? So we had women in Congress who are strong proponents?

3 (10m 7s):
I've already mentioned Martha Griffiths when the 15th Amendment had been written which that every citizen could

1 (10m 12s):
vote in the name of Heavens. Why couldn't women vote? Why did you have to have the 19th Amendment? Of course, the answer was they didn't consider women people within the

3 (10m 23s):
meaning there were two women who were among the first women of color ever to be elected to congress Patsy mink from Hawaii. I came to Congress and we began to realize that although we had statutes on the books about equality and

1 (10m 39s):
opportunity for everyone

3 (10m 41s):
that girls and women were being left out systematically and Shirley Chisholm from Brooklyn.

1 (10m 47s):
There is a great need For more women in the political Arena I happen to believe that there are certain aspects of legislation that probably would be given much more attention if we had more women's voices and the holes of your legislators on the city state and National

3 (11m 5s):
level. They did not believe it was really going to be the Supreme Court that was going to deliver rights to women proponents in Congress believed that the era would really Empower Congress and State legislatures to make the Principle of equality real that includes Title Nine those hearings were going on at the same time that era hearings were going on. It included the comprehensive Child Development act which would have created public childcare for everyone at the time. They really saw the era as the Constitutional foundation for a whole range of laws and public policies. That would make equality real for women in

1 (11m 44s):
America. After the break what the era

3 (11m 55s):
could change in

1 (11m 56s):
2020?

3 (12m 9s):
Hey everyone, so I know you know all about Vox podcast because I talk about him all the time you listen to one right now. I know you know about boxes Netflix show explain but Vox is also just getting into the regular like narrative TV game right now. You can find a show called Little America on Apple TV plus

1 (12m 27s):
only in America Dia odd tax after you see the ticket Place only in America can such a perfect game

3 (12m 36s):
exist Face

1 (12m 37s):
Forward hamburgers These Burgers bacon chili cheeseburger everything on top of everything only in America.

3 (12m 49s):
Little America comes from the people who brought you the big sick and master of none. It tells 8 extraordinary true stories of immigrants coming to America people from Syria. Uganda Mexico Nigeria. These stories are funny romantic their heartfelt and inspiring and who couldn't use a little bit of that right now Little America is live. Now, you can find it on the Apple TV app or go straight to tv.com Dot-com the show is called Little America 8 episodes check them out now.

3 (13m 29s):
Hey, it is Ezra Klein. And I want to tell you about an exciting episode. We has declined show you can listen to now and episode literally years in the making it is a special excerpt of my new book. Why were polarized which is coming out on Tuesday, January 28th, the book explores the structural and psychological Dimensions behind the way American politics has changed and polarized what it has done to our institutions, but importantly what it is doing to us. So I hope you enjoy it and you can listen to it by subscribing to the Ezra Klein show right now for free and your favorite podcast app it to hear a special excerpt from the book. Julie a house is gonna work. Now that Virginia has become the 38th state to ratify the era does it does it even matter?

3 (14m 13s):
I mean the deadline for ratification past like decades ago. Yeah, so it's long been understood that it's a deadline that could be changed by Congress. And in fact that understanding LED Congress to change it once because in 1977 Congress started getting worried that maybe they would not get all. Ratifications so they introduced legislation and it was passed in October of 1978 that change the deadline and extended it by three years. And so the idea is that if Congress is allowed to put in a deadline Congress has allowed to change the deadline and it could also change the deadline by removing it all together. Do you think that'll happen?

3 (14m 54s):
I think the house will pass the Bill removing the deadline and of course you need both houses in order for the deadline to be removed, but I think there will be a lot of pressure on the Senate to also remove the deadline because this is really an unprecedented situation in US history where you have a hundred years of women struggling to get this amendment for the Senate to say no we really want to enforce the deadline. Now, I think would be a very politically bold thing to do. But you needed Democrats to take over both houses of the Virginia legislature to even get here. This is still pretty partisan and Republicans control the US Senate. Are there any Republicans in the Senate that are into the idea of removing the deadline?

3 (15m 38s):
So right now there is a resolution in the Senate that has some Republican co-sponsors Lisa murkowski and Susan Collins are both co-sponsors Lisa murkowski actually wrote an op-ed in January of 2019 explaining why she was sponsoring that bill and why she believed there should really be no deadline on women's equality. What's crazy in my view? Is that this is 2019 and we still have not yet ratified the Equal Rights Amendment. What we're trying to do is make sure that there is no uncertainty that when we hit 38 States, we hit 38 States. We have ratified it and we have fully made this part of our United States Constitution, but I think you would need more than two Republicans to support that in order for it to pass in the Senate.

3 (16m 29s):
Okay. So both the US. House and Senate agreed to remove the deadline what would change what would the era actually do? What the ER a would do is provide a basis for upholding the constitutionality of laws that remedy violence against women for example, so in 2000 the Supreme Court struck down a very important piece of the violence against women act which allowed women to sue perpetrators of gender mode. Debated violence in federal courts, it was understood that such a law was not within congress's power to enforce the Fourteenth Amendment and I think it would be much clearer that a law like that would come within congress's power.

3 (17m 16s):
Another thing that would change in the laws that the government can discriminate against pregnant people under the Constitutional law. We currently have and I think policies that disadvantage mothers in the workplace become. Problematic under the Equal Rights Amendment in a way. They have not been under the equal protection Clause. Do you really think this could create a real shift though? I mean, it's obviously not like the Civil Rights Act solve racism or anything. Do you think it would be felt by people in their day-to-day the CRA? It could be I wouldn't call the ER a a bullet. It's not going to strike down bad laws that keep women down right now.

3 (17m 60s):
We should think Ink of the ER a more like a vehicle so it depends on who's driving it and where you drive it to the proponents of the ER a thought that the era would just give a nudge to State legislatures and to Congress to pass laws that made equality real for women and I do think that you see that borne out in the momentum around things like the pregnant worker Fairness Act, which has been introduced in the house and in Nevada, very interesting. In the same legislative session where they ratified the era. They also passed the pregnant worker Fairness Act. They also passed a new law guaranteeing accommodations for breastfeeding mothers and also a new law that guaranteed certain protections for victims of domestic violence.

3 (18m 48s):
So you see this coupling of the era with other legislative projects that they're engaged in at the same time to make equality real for women sticking with your vehicle metaphor for a Second here though. Is this like a Ford Model T. I mean this thing was written in the 20s redone in the 70s. Should we just be building a brand new all-electric vehicle here a new car. There are some folks who think that we should be starting all over again. But the reason it's important to ratify. The one that we had in the 1970s is that there's a real continuity of women persisting resisting and fighting for their rights, and I think The Equal Rights Amendment if we ratify the one that was introduced in the 70s would really recognize that trans generational struggle in a way that starting over would not and I don't think that it's an old model because in some ways the women who advocated for the era in the 1970s were actually thinking about issues which we unfortunately haven't solved today childbearing and child-rearing burden women's opportunities in the economic.

3 (20m 0s):
And educational sphere the era would not magically require that the state legislature solve these problems overnight, but it would really send a signal to the legislature saying whatever policies you have that are not working for women you need to fix.

1 (20m 30s):
Julie's suck is a professor at the CUNY Graduate Center in New York. She's also working on a book about the ER a it's called. We the women the Forgotten mothers of the Equal Rights Amendment. This is today explained. I'm Sean Rama's Forum. I make the show with a theme Shapiro Bridget McCarthy Jillian Weinberger Halima Shaman, AA sorry and no MM hasn't felt. No I'm and the Mysterious brake master cylinder make music and Olivia extreme checks the facts today explained as part of the VOX media podcast network. If you want to get in touch. You can send an email to today explained at vox.com or a tweet. We're at today underscore explained or maybe just avoid Twitter all together.

1 (21m 14s):
Some people say they're happier that way the shows off Monday for MLK day. It's a day of Service do someone a solid on Monday? You'll hear from us again on Tuesday. Ciao for now.