1 (7s):
Our company is now mea.

2 (11s):
MEA is making a huge investment in virtual reality or the so-called metaverse.

3 (16s):
Your avatar will be able to make natural eye contact and reflects your facial expressions in real time.

1 (22s):
Things like raising an eyebrow, squinting, widening my eyes or scrunching my nose.

4 (30s):
He's spending more than what it took to create Tesla on, on this market that we're not sure is gonna work. And so it's

5 (38s):
Meta is the latest Bay Area tech company to announce massive layoffs to their workforce. Letting go of 11,000 people this

6 (46s):
Week raising an eyebrow and widening my eyes because it's not just meta something is shaking. The foundations of big tech right now. What it is coming up on today, explained

7 (59s):
Support for the show today comes from another show. This one's called Things That Go Boom, which sounds like a lot of fun and, and things that go boom. It's a podcast about national security, which might sound like less fun to you, but bear with me here this season. Things that Go Boom is going deep on food and conflict and how war might impact some of your favorite foods. From warm chocolate chip cookies to crunchy tig, we did an episode early this year on how the war in Ukraine was affecting grain supplies between supply chain issues, empty shelves, and a potential nuclear attack on the bread basket of the world. Now is a great time to talk about the way war impacts the food we eat. Go listen to things that go boom on Apple podcasts or wherever you listen to such programs.

8 (1m 45s):
The critically acclaimed FX show, Atlanta comes to a close this week. It became known for challenging viewers expectations, if not downright provoking those viewers repeatedly. The

9 (1m 57s):
Thing I've realized from doing four Seasons of Atlanta stuff I think is funny. Some people might be like, That's terrifying or that's very sad.

8 (2m 6s):
Why Atlanta actually meant to piss you off. This week on Into It Vultures Pop Culture podcast,

6 (2m 19s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. 2022 has been a year for tech companies. Mark Zuckerberg's, 11,000 employees or 13% of the company gone. Mark Amazon reportedly plans to lay off around 10,000 people. That news just broke today. Elon Musk fired half of Twitter, which has been presented in some corners as a wild mood swing, but he also laid off 10% of Tesla staff this year after telling investors in a memo that he had a quote, super bad feeling about the economy, but then he started hiring at Tesla again. So, okay, let's leave Elon out of it. More illustrative Lift cut around 13% of its staff. Robin Hood, around 29% of its staff.

6 (2m 59s):
Stripe around 14% of its staff, Netflix, Coinbase, a lot of tech companies have had significant layoffs. Peter Kafka, senior correspondent at Recode and host of the Recode Media podcast. What is going on? And start, if you would with Facebook.

10 (3m 15s):
Facebook said they're firing 11,000 people. One of the largest layoffs in tech period. Certainly the biggest layoff in Facebook's history. Meta's history. This is a company that seemed invincible forever. Even when they had big political problems, the company kept growing, they kept minting money.

11 (3m 34s):
Facebook stock went up so much. Facebook is now worth more than a trillion dollars for the first time ever.

10 (3m 40s):
But what happened in the last year was Facebook's like, Hey, actually we've got some problems, but don't worry about it. We're gonna continue to invest in the future. We're gonna spend billions of dollars a year on the metaverse. This thing that doesn't exist, but we want to will into history. People

12 (3m 56s):
Say to me, What is the metaverse? I say, I don't know, but if I could imagine it, it's probably like the book Ready Player, one terrible movie, fantastic

10 (4m 5s):
Book. And then at some point this year, Wall Street said, This is a terrible idea. We're freaked out. We're gonna cut your value way down.

13 (4m 16s):
Meta stock is down 70% this year, profits down 50% in the third quarter.

10 (4m 22s):
And then you saw Facebook for really the first time last spring saying, Hey, we're gonna start tapping the breaks on our growth. We're gonna stop giving you guys perks. Maybe some of you shouldn't be working here. Really signaling that, that that sort of the go go go days for Facebook. We're gonna be either gone or at least on pause for a

14 (4m 41s):
While. This is Mark Zuckerberg saying we grew too fast. We assumed that the boom times would

13 (4m 46s):
Continue, and they, they haven't.

10 (4m 47s):
People who work at Facebook have been freaked out well before these layoffs. Their stock has dropped significantly. That was a big source of their compensation. They're looking at the future of the company. They no longer have sort of blind faith that it's gonna grow and grow and grow.

15 (5m 3s):
The social media giant. Facebook has seen the number of people using it every day fall for the first time in its 18 year history. Facebook's parent company, Meta Networks warned of slowing revenue growth in the face of competition from arrivals such as TikTok and YouTube.

10 (5m 18s):
They've been streaming out of Facebook on their own, looking for other companies where there's other growth opportunities. And that's been going on for a while. And I've absolutely talked to some of those folks saying, I'm, I'm not sure about the future of this company. I want to go somewhere else. All that said, you can say, Look, we know that the company is on different footing. We know things are not the same. It's, you can say all that. You can think all that. It's another thing to have 11,000 people disappear in one day.

1 (5m 44s):
I wanna say, you know, upfront that I take full responsibility for this decision. This was ultimately my call and it was, it was, you know, one of the hardest calls that I've, I've had to make in, in, in the 18 years of running the company.

6 (6m 3s):
So Peter Wall Street says, Uhuh Zuckerberg, this ain't gonna work for us. Why did Wall Street say that? What's going on?

10 (6m 10s):
So Wall Street's been saying hell no to tech for much of this year. It's a huge reversal from the last couple years and really for the last decade. For the last decade, Wall Street liked tech, but during the pandemic in particular, when it looked like, first of all the economy was gonna stop and then it looked like, Oh, we're gonna be working from home forever. Investors plowed money into anything tech related, whether it was Zoom or Peloton or Snap Tech.

11 (6m 36s):
Stocks did very well during the pandemic because tech was so important to our daily lives. Netflix and Apple moved higher because we stayed home and watched Television Zoom, Stock Zoom because we had so many online meetings

10 (6m 49s):
And Facebook and Google and Amazon said, Oh, we're, we're, we're growing like gangbusters. The pandemic frankly is good for us. It accelerates trends that we're well positioned to take advantage of. We're gonna spend money, we're gonna hire lots of people. Wall Street said, Great, that all sounds good. And then as happens often Wall Street turn changes by and said, No, we don't like that. So that's tech in general. And then specifically at Facebook, Wall Street's concerned about Facebook's growth possibilities. They're saying, Look, you're reaching 2 billion people in the world through Instagram, Facebook, WhatsApp, et cetera. Seems like it's gonna be hard for you to grow. You have specific problems in your advertising business.

10 (7m 29s):
A lot of that relates to changes Apple made in the way that advertisers can track people around the internet. That's specifically a big problem for Facebook.

16 (7m 39s):
The feature dubbed app tracking transparency will let you choose if you want your online activity tracked and sold to third parties such as Facebook and other apps.

14 (7m 48s):
This is a feature that Facebook has been attacking for months. Mark Zuckerberg saying Apple's changes will hurt small businesses ability to target consumers with ads through

10 (7m 59s):
Facebook. And then on top of that, Mark Zuckerberg's been saying, Hey, by the way, we're not Facebook anymore. We're meta because we're the metaverse company.

1 (8m 6s):
Imagine you put on your glasses or headset and you're instantly in your home space. And as parts of your physical home recreated virtually, it has things that are only possible virtually. And it has an incredibly inspiring view of whatever you find most beautiful.

10 (8m 23s):
And this is this project. We're gonna spend 10 billion on it in a single year and we're gonna spend and spend and spend for many years after that. And it's gonna take us five, 10 years to create this virtual reality world that we think exists. But it's the future. We're going there. This is a big bold bet.

1 (8m 40s):
So giving everyone the tools to be present no matter where they are, whether it's a hologram sitting next to you in a physical meeting or in a discussion taking place in the metaverse, that's gonna be a game changer.

10 (8m 51s):
I think very last year, Wall Street said, that sounds pretty good. That sounds, sounds rational. And this year, Wall Street says, Actually, we're not into investing in this idea that may never come. We'd like you to stop spending so much money in general and, and we're pretty freaked out about the amount of money you're spending on this virtual reality.

6 (9m 9s):
When Mark Zuckerberg made that announcement, I have nieces and nephews and I assumed that by this point they would all be living in the metaverse. Like the young people were gonna go and get it. And, and then this year they're all like doing JV tennis. Is meta really gonna be a thing?

10 (9m 24s):
Look, the metaverse, if you, if you're really cynical about the metaverse, you go, This is the best snake oil ever. Cuz you can say, Look, I'm painting this picture of the future and it's gonna be amazing. It's gonna be world changing. It's not gonna show up for a long time. We have to build this stuff. There's a lot of tech we have to imagine and build and create and then get you to use. So don't, it's not gonna come tomorrow, but trust me, it's gonna get there. And the nice thing about making it a pitch like that, you can't be held responsible in a year when it doesn't materialize. Cause it didn't say it was coming next year. It's coming sometime. You know, look, one of the problems that that meta specifically has is that if you're a young person, you're not using the old Facebook app at all.

10 (10m 6s):
And now you're probably on TikTok. That's a huge existential competitor for, for Facebook. My kids are 12 and 14. They love Snap. Snap is a crucial thing for them. They, they have zero interest in Instagram or Facebook that can't continue forever. For Mark Zuckerberg, he's gotta find something that my kids, that your kids, your friends kids are interested in. And again, that's what he's hoping he's imagining with the Metaverse. But that's in the future in the realities now.

6 (10m 34s):
So 2022 really has been a make or break year for tech companies and a lot of it looks like break. And it is not just Facebook. What is going on contextually here?

10 (10m 45s):
All these, all these companies that are either having big layoffs or even if they're not having big layoffs are saying we're gonna stop growing. Which means we're either gonna like let some people go, but we're not gonna call it layoffs or we're, we're just gonna stop hiring. Our head count's gonna sort of stay flat or, or drop. They all have different stories. But again, they all have a general sort of, we're not sure about our growth prospects. Wall Street's not sure about our growth prospects. We're just gonna stop spending as much. And and one way to do that is, is to hire less people or fire people. So Twitter has its problems. Elon Musk bought a company for $44 billion. That's probably worth 10 or $15 billion.

10 (11m 26s):
He needs cash, he needs to fire a bunch of people. Even if he hadn't bought the company though, Twitter likely would've had layoffs for some of the same reasons other companies did. They, their growth prospects are limited. Snap is another example of a company that's hired a ton of people during the pandemic and Wall Street said, Go, go, go. Snap Also has advertising problems. Snap also has ad problems that seem specific to changes Apple made. So their growth is also limited. So they've had to have 20% cuts. Peloton is is a classic example of people diluting themselves,

17 (12m 0s):
Put your phone away, let's get to work. Put your phone away, let's get to work. Put your phone away, let's get to work. I'm not the one six to 80 resistance happy enough for you to forget about your emails.

10 (12m 14s):
They were an incredibly poorly run company. They literally could not find the bikes they were making. They were sort of getting lost in transit and sitting in warehouses and they had sort of no control of the company. And so not only have they had layoffs, but they brought in entirely new management. You see different versions of this throughout tech

6 (12m 31s):
In addition to the layoffs, Facebook and some of these other companies are trying to find ways to cut costs that seem to strike right at the heart of what it means to be employed in tech. What do those cost cutting measures look like at this

10 (12m 43s):
Point? These are cost cutting measures, but if you talk to people in tech, they're also sort of, they're sort of emotional cultural resets as well. Ooh, Google really kicked this off many years ago saying, We're making so much money that we can afford to do this. We're gonna hire all the best talent and we're gonna keep them here by paying them a lot. But also doing these outrageous perks, not just free food but multiple cafeterias at every one of our offices where you can, you know, gorge yourself all day and you know, really elaborate gyms and shuttle buses to take you from your your house down to our campus.

6 (13m 19s):
Vox has

10 (13m 20s):
Chips, they're not bad by the way. And, and we upgraded. We upgraded our, our seltzer water, we had polar water and now we're back to LaCroix. So it's pretty good perks right now. And what you started to see again last spring where companies like Facebook, like Google saying we're gonna tap the breaks on this stuff too. Facebook last spring said we're gonna, we're gonna make it harder. You can still have free food if you stay here and work late into the evening, but we're not gonna give it to you quite so early. So you really do have to sort of stick around at work. And also we're as petty a thing as we're gonna give you smaller to go boxes. So you can't take the steak we're giving you and go feed your family with it.

10 (14m 2s):
Which is just kind of a crazy thing for if you're a normal person at a normal company saying, Wait, you guys were giving away free food and people were feeding their family with it. Yes they were. And for a while that was kind of okay. And then you had Facebook saying, eh, one that costs money. But also we don't want you thinking about Facebook this way that sort of we're gonna coddle you, that we're gonna give you every resource. It's going to be closer to what normal working conditions for lots of people around the US at least are used to.

6 (14m 30s):
How much of an existential shift in tech do you think this time period is?

10 (14m 36s):
I think it's a pretty big shift. I think most people who are working in tech have only been there during boom times. The last downturn was 2008 and even 2008, a lot of tech companies ended up doing pretty well. The last real deflation in tech was all the way back in 2000, 2001. There's almost no one working in tech who was around for that

18 (14m 59s):
Pets.com because pets can't drive.

10 (15m 2s):
So you've been working in tech, if you've been working at Facebook or Google or smaller companies, you've only known things going up to the right, you got paid more. They were always companies who wanted to hire you away from the company you were at. So you get paid even more. You knew that you could leave Facebook or Google and go to a startup and if that startup didn't work, maybe we get bought by Facebook or Google. So you'd be cushioned. You knew that in worst case scenario, you could leave your big tech job and go get another big tech job. And all of that is a record scratch sort of stop this spring and now this summer and now this fall. People saying, Oh I can't just walk out. I can't just leave Facebook or Google and go to a crypto or web three startup and make even more money.

10 (15m 42s):
I might just actually have to sort of do the job that I have right now and be content with that. And that's a, that's a big cultural reason

16 (15m 54s):
This season uncover story.

20 (15m 56s):
He's the most articulate, he's the most savvy, he's very cunning.

16 (15m 60s):
It seemed like the perfect story, the kind that only comes around once or twice in a journalist career. Like

20 (16m 6s):
He's very, very, it's why he destroys everybody

16 (16m 9s):
Out in the woods of Montana. One billionaire was creating his own world also. He could hide something truly despicable. Have you heard of girls being like

21 (16m 19s):
Followed? Is that something you've experienced?

16 (16m 22s):
At least that's what we were told.

22 (16m 25s):
You ask if I consider him a friend or if he's someone I trust. Both are absolutely yes, I would trust him with my life.

16 (16m 37s):
This season on cover story, what actually happened

23 (16m 40s):
Happens once in everybody's life. And this guy is a master liar, master liar.

16 (16m 47s):
Cover story, season two, seed money. Listen wherever you get your podcasts.

24 (16m 56s):
Hey, I'm Jolyn Hill, I'm a producer here at Fox and if you're anything like me, you know that news moves really quickly, especially during an election, whether it's the polling,

25 (17m 9s):
We're asking a lot more of political polling than it is able to give us

24 (17m 14s):
Ballot initiatives.

26 (17m 16s):
Abortion is the most obvious one here. Like, it's like, well there's the most ballot measures ever. And it's like, well yeah, because you know, there's no longer a bedrock supreme court protection that really limits what states and voters can do.

24 (17m 29s):
Or the issue on voters' Minds

21 (17m 30s):
Fair is a huge motivator for voters and maybe a more effective one than trying to get them enthusiastic about a particular politician's policy platform.

24 (17m 40s):
Things are happening fast and the weeds is here to slow you down with smart, in-depth conversations about the policies, the politics, and the information you need ahead of the midterms. You can find the weeds wherever you get your podcasts. New episodes drop every Tuesday,

27 (18m 4s):
But this is gonna be like, I'm not a part of Meta won't be like, you're not a part of Meta, you're not a part of meta. My name's on the ma head you might wanna check again,

6 (18m 11s):
We're back with Recodes, Peter Kafka and Peter, you're saying that the fundamental problem here is one that we love talking about on today, explained the problem is growth or lack of growth.

10 (18m 23s):
So I'd argue that in addition to the pandemic and the the miscalculation sort of weird party that the tech had in the last couple years, there's a bigger story that goes back a couple decades. These tech companies, Google, Facebook, Amazon, Apple, all had crazy, crazy, crazy growth.

28 (18m 43s):
While some may see them as the crazy ones, we see Genius,

10 (18m 48s):
They were selling tons of ads, they were selling tons of iPhones, they reflected a big change in the way the world used technology. They were at the front of that. They got rewarded for that

28 (18m 60s):
Because the people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world are the ones who do

10 (19m 7s):
All of that still exists. But those companies aren't growing at the same rate. Many of them pretty old now or their main product is pretty old. The iPhone is 15 years old. Google's main search ad business is 20 years old. YouTube is 15 years old, more or less. A lot of these things are still very big, very profitable, but they're not gonna grow like gangbusters anymore. It's hard to extract the kind of rapid revenue and profit gains that these companies had for the last couple decades. And so if you're Wall Street and you're looking for growth, you want growth, growth, growth. It's harder to find that in big tech these days. And, and big tech is, and I've wrote about this is I think less exciting, less dynamic than it used to be.

10 (19m 54s):
These big tech companies were disruptors and now they're kind of the big established giants. And if from a Wall Street perspective, that is less appealing. So I think a lot of these companies are just simply old. They're old and it's harder to get Wall Street excited about the future when you're old.

6 (20m 11s):
Do these companies have to grow? If, if if a tech company is valued at a trillion dollars or 500 billion, can that just, why can't that just be okay?

10 (20m 22s):
I asked that question all the time and I've been writing and reporting and podcasting that business forever. What if he just took some money in for the stuff you sold, made a profit, went home? Yeah, you can do it, you can, you can definitely do it. It helps if you own your own company, if you don't own anyone money, if you don't have shareholders looking for a return. But you can definitely do it and you can even get away with not growing that much. If you are a certain kind of company has told investors we're gonna grow a couple percent each year. We'll get a little bit bigger. Dynamism is good that that's good, but we're not gonna, we're not gonna grow like gangbusters. That's a pretty rational way to, to live life and to run a business.

10 (21m 6s):
Wall Street though often says, no, that's fine. But we want, if we wanted that, we'd just go, you know, buy tea bills or whatever. What we want are big returns. We wanna make more money. So we want massive growth and we want you to promise us massive growth. And that's what a lot of these tech companies were doing and delivering on for a couple decades and now it's harder for them to do

6 (21m 28s):
It. And are the tech companies being honest with investors, have they gone to them and said, Look, guys and gals, we're not gonna grow quite as much as we used to.

10 (21m 36s):
Yes and no. They have to report their numbers publicly unless they're committing major fraud. It doesn't happen that often. And they could say, Yeah, look, this is, this is what the next couple years look like. But if they say, look, we're, we're essentially gonna stop growing period, or we're only gonna grow a little bit for a long time, that's game over. Wall Street doesn't want to hear that. Or Wall Street will say that's, that's fine, but you're now worth 70% less than what you used to be cuz we wanna get that growth somewhere. So you find lots of companies saying, All right, things are slowing now, but trust us, X number of years from now, this magic bean is gonna sprout and we're gonna have a new VR headset, we're gonna have a new metaverse, we're gonna grow in markets that don't exist yet, but trust us, we're gonna get there.

10 (22m 21s):
Netflix is going through a version of this where they're saying, Yeah, it turns out maybe streaming isn't quite as big as we thought it was, but we're also in gaming. That sounds good, right? And so you see all these big tech companies saying, Look, we're gonna have another chapter somewhere, but you gotta trust us. Which is not necessarily being deceptive, it's just saying this thing doesn't exist yet. But we imagine and hope that it will be,

6 (22m 42s):
You know, I'm, I'm a relatively old person. I'm like the Facebook of people and a thing, a thing that I wonder about a lot. You know, as we sit here in late 2022, Facebook has been old for a while. Amazon has been old for a while. Like I remember when it was a bookstore. Why are investors only now just starting to register their skepticism just starting to catch on?

10 (23m 9s):
The reason is, is because you could say for, you could say 10 years ago, look, Amazon's been around for a long time. Apple's been around for a long time. Facebook's been around for a long time. And they'd say, Yeah, but look at all the money we're making. There's so much more growth for us left. And if you bet against them, you'd be wrong. You'd be either losing money or losing out on the opportunity to make money. A lot of this is fomo, right? Like, I don't know how Tesla or Apple or whomever is gonna find a bunch of new sales x number of years from now, but everyone else does. So I'm gonna pile in and you know, Wall Street is a herd mentality. Once people decide, Oh, we're, we're more skeptical about all, all this. Everyone is skeptical at the same time.

6 (23m 47s):
What does all of this mean for the founders who were like giants among men for a long time? They're, they're old too. Now what happens to them?

10 (23m 57s):
One thing that I think is pretty telling is almost all of the men, and they're all men who started these big tech companies and ran them. They were the founder as ceo, they're not there anymore. There's different stories. In every case, Steve Jobs is dead, but a lot of these guys said, we don't wanna run these companies anymore. Amazon, Google said, We're gonna bring in Microsoft, we're gonna bring in professional managers, hand this company over to them and say, You go for it. We're gonna do other stuff. We're gonna go buy the Washington Post. We're gonna go and Bill Gates' case, try to vaccinate the world. We're gonna do other stuff. Because frankly, it's more interesting to do other stuff than to run these big companies.

10 (24m 39s):
Mark Zuckerberg is the one big exception. The guy who created the company, runs the company and says, I'm all in, and by the way, I'm not going anywhere.

29 (24m 47s):
So you are not stepping down as chairman.

30 (24m 49s):
That's not the

6 (24m 50s):
Plan. Does all of this shakiness mean that the big tech companies have less power than they used to?

10 (24m 57s):
I don't know that they have less power, frankly. They, they are much less valuable, but they're still the most valuable companies in the world. So comparatively they're still the big dogs. I think it's gonna be harder for them to sort of get the best and brightest, the most ambitious people in some cases, because those people will look around and say, We as employees, we want to go to places where there's a lot of growth that's fun for us personally, it's, it's intriguing. It's also, there's a lot of financial upside for us. So maybe we're not gonna go work at Facebook or Google or Amazon or Apple. We'll go do something else instead.

6 (25m 32s):
I hear you saying there's a potential upside here, like a broader upside.

10 (25m 37s):
Yeah. I don't wanna be pollyannish about this because people are losing jobs. Yeah, yeah. Fair. And, and and, and people are having gonna have a harder time paying rent or mortgages or feeding their families. So I wanna be glib about this, but there is, it's, it's part real and part sort of fable of Silicon Valley is you have this creative destruction where, where old things get taken down, new cool things get built in their place. It's part of the ethos of tech. That cool stuff comes from a guy, a woman in a garage making up a new thing. It's part of the fable and and myth of Silicon Valley that has a great deal of truth to it as well.

10 (26m 19s):
And so there's lots of folks saying, All right, we we're gonna go make something new. By the way, we made a bunch of money in the last couple years, last 10 years, we can afford to not be working at a big tech company for a while. Let's go, let's go cast around for a new idea.

0 (26m 35s):
You're so very smash.

6 (26m 38s):
Today's show was produced by Amanda Luellen and engineered by Paul Robert Moy. It was edited and fact checked by Matthew Colette. I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.