0 (0s):
Another weekend. Another episode of today explained to kids, which typically would have me saying something like adults, time to break out the earmuffs. But honestly, I think you adults could stand to learn a thing or two from this one, I'm gonna hand it off to Izzy and Kiara on today. Explain to kids,

KiwiCo (24s):
Looking for a great way to keep your kids engaged this summer. One that doesn't rhyme with PIP or met slicks, then check out Kiwi CO's huge selection of art, science and technology projects. Kiwi co delivers monthly interactive crates that encourage kids of all ages to explore, learn, and grow each one ships with instructions and all the materials your kids need to start building. Right now, you can get an exclusive Kiwi co and Vox bundle perfectly designed to fill your kids summer downtime with discovery. Get 50% off your first month on any subscription line with code Vox 50 at Kiwi co.com/fox.

1 (1m 9s):
Whoa, whoa, whoa. Let's try something little different. Get, get it today. Explain today, Ashley.

3 (1m 35s):
Hey Kiara.

4 (1m 36s):
Hi Izzy. How's it going?

3 (1m 38s):
It's going great. I'm actually just finishing up putting together the plan for the next episode of today. Explain to kids.

4 (1m 46s):
I think you're mistaken. It's my turn to plan. The next episode, I have an amazing idea for a show about my friend, zip, the hummingbird. He has such good eyes. He can see all these extra colors that are invisible to humans. Since it's a podcast, zips gonna just talk about all the colors we can't see

3 (2m 7s):
Actually, Kiara, I think you are mistaken. It's my turn to plan an episode and it's going to be about the physics of spaghetti. Like why it's so hard to break it into just two pieces, how it will curl when it's boiled and how to get it perfectly. Entente every time the world has been waiting for a podcast about spaghetti science. And this will be my masterpiece.

4 (2m 29s):
If you wanna know if your pasta is cooked, you can just taste it. Nobody cares about the physics of spaghetti. Oh.

3 (2m 37s):
And people want to hear about colors. They can't even see on a podcast.

4 (2m 42s):
Well, if you would just hear me out

3 (2m 44s):
And if you would just open your mind a little you'd understand that spaghetti science is fascinating and everyone loves

4 (2m 52s):
Spaghetti. Everyone loves

3 (2m 53s):
Colors, but it's my turn.

4 (2m 56s):
No, it's not.

3 (2m 57s):
Yes it is.

4 (2m 58s):
No, it's not.

3 (2m 60s):
Yes it.

4 (3m 1s):
Whoa, what just happened?

3 (3m 7s):
I don't know. I, I think we just portaled to the island of explain, but it's weird. I've never portaled into a boring building before,

4 (3m 15s):
But why are we here?

3 (3m 17s):
I don't know. Kiara. You think I wanted to portal here? You think this is my fault?

4 (3m 21s):
Well, all I know is I didn't portal us here.

3 (3m 25s):
Ugh. I just wanted to spend the day working on my new episode. And now instead, I'm here with you in this cold gray hallway. And why is this lighting so bad?

4 (3m 35s):
More importantly. Where's the portal.

3 (3m 39s):
I don't even see a portal anywhere, but there's always a portal. This is so weird. How are we gonna get back? And are we even on the island of explained,

4 (3m 50s):
Hey, look out this window. It seems like we definitely are on the island of explained.

3 (3m 55s):
Yeah, that's what I said. Let's just go outside and find another portal. This hallway to the left looks like the way out.

4 (4m 3s):
No, I think we should take the hallway on the right

3 (4m 5s):
Look. It's gotta be on the left. I'm going left.

4 (4m 9s):
Well, I'm going right.

3 (4m 11s):
You're impossible. Whoa,

4 (4m 16s):
What? I went right. And you went left and now we're both in the same place again.

3 (4m 24s):
How did we end up here? This place is the worst. Is this hallway? Just one big circle?

6 (4m 31s):
Nope. Not a circle. It's more like a labyrinth maze. Isn't it cool.

4 (4m 36s):
It is definitely not cool. What is this place and how do we get out of here? We need to find a portal back home.

6 (4m 44s):
Sure, sure. We'll get you back home right after your appointment,

3 (4m 50s):
But we don't have an appointment.

6 (4m 52s):
Are you Izzy and Kiara?

3 (4m 57s):
Yeah.

6 (4m 58s):
Then you have an appointment with me. I'm the engineer. My specialty is ears and this is the here and now clinic. Come in, come in.

4 (5m 9s):
I'm still not following.

6 (5m 12s):
I'm the one who brought you here to fix your ears. Obviously you haven't really been hearing each other.

3 (5m 19s):
I really don't like this at all.

4 (5m 21s):
Yeah. Can you just send us back home through the portal?

6 (5m 24s):
Oof. Looks like I've got my work cut out for me. I told you my specialty is ears and I'm going to help you here.

4 (5m 33s):
Okay? How are you going to help us hear engineer?

6 (5m 36s):
Well, first I need to scan your ears and brains. Now, if the two of you would just step into this shiny metal cube,

3 (5m 43s):
I'm not getting in there.

6 (5m 44s):
Well, if you won't get in, how else am I supposed to help you get back home? You're obviously here because you haven't been hearing each other. And the first thing we need to do is to make sure your ears are working properly. So in you go

3 (5m 58s):
Fine.

6 (6m 9s):
Okay. All done. Come on out and see, these are giant versions of your ears and brains.

4 (6m 15s):
Wow. There's so much stuff in there.

3 (6m 18s):
Yeah. Booking all that wax

4 (6m 21s):
Gross. But what's all that other stuff. Is that a snail?

6 (6m 26s):
Nope. That's your inner ear. I'll get to that in a minute. Let's start from the part of your ear that we can all already see the outer ear it's shaped kind of like a bowl to help make sounds louder and funnel them into your head. The sounds go through the ear canal. That's this little tunnel over here and you see this drum.

4 (6m 46s):
There's a drum in our ears.

6 (6m 49s):
Well, it's built like a drum. It's a thin piece of skin stretch tight like a drum. The ear drum. The eardrum is attached to three teeny tiny bones, the smallest bones in your body. So when sounds hit the eardrum, it makes those tiny bones vibrate. Those bones make the sounds louder and send them into the snail shaped part called the inner ear. And inside that snail are millions of tiny little hair shaped cells, which turned sounds into electricity.

3 (7m 21s):
Wow. I had no idea. I could turn sounds into electricity.

6 (7m 25s):
That's not the half of it. Next, those electrical impulses travel across neurons in the brain brain cells. They go all the way down to the bottom of your brain then to the center of your brain and finally back out to the edges of your brain right next to your ears.

3 (7m 42s):
Okay. So after our ears, turn the sounds into electricity. That electricity goes bouncing around our brains. That's amazing.

6 (7m 51s):
Yeah. It's pretty cool. Now let's see how well you're both hearing. I'll push this button to activate test mode and hello.

4 (8m 1s):
Oh,

6 (8m 4s):
Okay. Here we go. See the sound is going through your outer ear, hitting the eardrum, tiny bones, snail thing. And this light bulb up over here shows that. Yeah. Looks like both of you are hearing just fine

3 (8m 18s):
Then what are we still doing here?

4 (8m 21s):
Wait, what's that light? Huh? The one that's not lighting up.

6 (8m 26s):
Oh, of course. That's the listening light. It seems like you're both hearing but not listening.

3 (8m 33s):
What's the difference?

6 (8m 34s):
Well hearing that's my specialty. That's about how your ears detect sounds. But listening is something else altogether.

4 (8m 43s):
Huh? What does that mean?

6 (8m 45s):
Some people can't hear or have trouble hearing and they communicate in different ways through sign language or writing. Listening is when you actually pay attention to what someone is communicating to you. However they're communicating to you. It's about understanding. And when you're in a fight, listening can be the hardest thing to do.

3 (9m 5s):
Well, if someone here isn't listening, it's definitely not me.

4 (9m 10s):
I always listen to my friends. You're the one who never listens Izzy.

3 (9m 14s):
Oh yeah. We'll watch this engineer. I'd like to listen to you. Tell me how to fix this listening problem so we can get off the island.

6 (9m 25s):
Well, that's actually not my specialty. Maybe weren't listening when I said this before, but I'm an, so I focus on the ears and how hearing works, but you don't actually need your hearing to be able to listen. If listening is your problem, I've got a colleague who can probably help you. I'll send her your brain scans and you can see her now just go down the hall and make a right after the break.

KiwiCo (9m 53s):
Thanks for listening and thanks to Kiwi co for their support. You can keep your kids excited to learn more about hearing and sound waves with Kiwi CO's stereo headphones, crate. They'll get to build their own working headphones and get deeper into the science of sound in a hands on way. It's easy to rig up the speaker drivers and experiment with stereo with this episode's companion project, explore how speakers and other electroacoustic transducers turn electricity into sound. Plus learn about the historical technologies that made modern headsets possible. Your whole family can become audio files in no time. If they wish Kiwi co delivers science and art projects that turn curiosity into creativity from harnessing the power of the sun to exploring biodiversity in your backyard. A crate from Kiwi co helps kids explore science, technology, engineering, art, and math in a seriously fun way. Get the exclusive Kiwi co Vox bundle. So kids can work on crates to pair with all four new episodes of season two of today. Explain to kids plus today. Explain to kids. Listeners can get 50% off your first month on any monthly subscription line with code V 50 Kiwi co.com/vox. That's 50% off your first month@kwic.com slash V X and use promo code V five.

3 (11m 34s):
Ah, it's always nice to have a little break. That ear exam was kind of wild.

4 (11m 39s):
I can't believe we went through all of that. Only for the engineer to tell us our ears are working and we're still stuck here.

3 (11m 47s):
Ugh, stop complaining. Kiara. It's your fault. We're here in the first place.

4 (11m 51s):
It is not. It's your fault. We're here.

3 (11m 54s):
Let's just see if the engineer's colleague can help us. Hi, I'm Izzy. And this is Kiara. The engineer said you could help us fix our listening, but she didn't tell us who you are.

10 (12m 7s):
I'm Dr. Aaron, Clayo, I'm a neuroscientist. And I do research on how we can better understand each other and how our neurons connect together and can change based on the things that we do and feel, and experience

4 (12m 24s):
That sounds promising. Oh, I see the engineer sent you our brain scans.

10 (12m 29s):
Oh yeah. Yeah.

3 (12m 31s):
So what are we looking at here?

10 (12m 34s):
We have a map of the whole brain in front of us. And what's important to know is that every single part of the map is responsible for something else that you do with your behavior.

4 (12m 45s):
Okay. So each part of our brains does something different and the engineer said the parts of our brains that here are working just fine. So which part of the brain helps us listen. And how is that different from hearing

10 (13m 0s):
When you're really listening to someone, the information travels into lots of different areas in the brain where you can really consider what they're saying. And you can think about the way they might be thinking and feeling, and then you can respond accordingly. So there's a big difference between simply hearing the sounds that someone's saying and understanding what they're actually meaning or the place that they're coming from.

4 (13m 28s):
But I do understand what Izzy is saying. They don't care about colors.

3 (13m 32s):
That's not what I'm saying. That's not what I meant.

4 (13m 34s):
And they wanna take my turn away from me.

3 (13m 36s):
I never said that, Kiara. I don't think you really were listening. Dr. Aaron is right.

4 (13m 42s):
Well, it's really hard to listen to somebody when you're in an argument, it's hard to listen when you're angry and when you know you're right and your friend is wrong. What if I don't want to listen

10 (13m 53s):
When you're having an argument? And you only hear someone instead of listening to them, you are gonna be at the same place at the end of the conversation as you were when you came in, because you're simply waiting your turn until they stop talking so that you can say what you wanna say. But if you really are listening to someone, you actually might change your perspective based on what they're saying. If you're only hearing, then there's really no point of having the conversation. If you're listening, you can actually make really meaningful change and you can resolve conflict in a much easier way than if you only have your, your hearing ears on.

3 (14m 30s):
Huh? Okay. I think I see what you mean. If Kiara and I don't listen to each other, we'll never be able to find a solution to our argument. So where do we start? What's the key to being a good listener,

10 (14m 43s):
Empathy,

3 (14m 44s):
Empathy.

4 (14m 45s):
What's that

10 (14m 46s):
Empathy is getting outside of our own self. So you understand what emotions they might might be experiencing? What feelings, if they're feeling sad or happy based on something that happened to them.

4 (14m 57s):
I think I get what you mean, but how do we do that? Especially when we're feeling our own feelings already.

3 (15m 5s):
Yeah. Like if I'm feeling really mad at Kiara, because she thinks it's her turn to choose a topic for today, explain to kids. But I know it's really my turn. Ugh. I just don't know if I can empathize with her right now.

4 (15m 19s):
Yeah. I'm too mad at Izzy to even try, but I do wanna get back home. So how can we practice empathy?

10 (15m 34s):
This is the unicorn of empathy.

3 (15m 37s):
A unicorn.

10 (15m 38s):
The unicorn has the ability to let anyone that touches its coat to be able to feel what someone else is feeling or to pretend to be that other person for 10 seconds.

4 (15m 52s):
How does it work?

10 (15m 54s):
All you need to do? If you wanna know how someone is feeling, you think of that person in your head and you place your hand right. In between the unicorn's eyes, right underneath its horn. And you'll be able to take the point of view as the person that you're thinking of. You can step into that person's shoes.

4 (16m 13s):
Okay. So I'm putting my hand on the unicorn's face and I'm thinking of Izzy. I can understand the Izzy IST feeling angry, but not just angry, also hurt. They feel like I don't care about them or their feelings or opinions. And it's making them sad. Is he, is that how you're feeling?

3 (16m 40s):
I mean, yeah, it really did hurt me that you just shot down my spaghetti science idea, even though you know how much I love spaghetti. Hmm. This unicorn of empathy really is something I wanna try too. I'll put my hand on the unicorn's coat. Hmm. She really believes it's her turn to choose an episode topic. And she's frustrated that we don't agree.

4 (17m 11s):
Wow. Empathy's pretty amazing.

10 (17m 14s):
It's a, like a super power in some ways, like to be able to step outside yourself, it's not super easy to do and it does need to be practiced.

4 (17m 24s):
Wait, you mean I can have the superpower of empathy just by practicing.

10 (17m 30s):
The one thing that I wished everyone, kids and adults knew about empathy and about listening is that we get better at it. Every time we do it.

3 (17m 39s):
Hmm. So let's just say hypothetically, that I don't have a unicorn of empathy at home. How am I supposed to practice empathy and get really good at listening to other people and resolving all of our conflicts

10 (17m 53s):
In order to be a good listener, you need to take a minute to be open to what the other person is saying so that you're really listening to them. The second thing you need to do is you need to try to put yourself in their shoes and take their perspective. So that means is pretend with all the creativity that you can have there, pretend that you are that person. What would they be thinking? What would they be feeling?

3 (18m 21s):
I can try that

10 (18m 23s):
If you're fighting with a friend, I think that coming together and having a conversation is the most important thing to do. However, you shouldn't rush that conversation. If you feel overly angry or hurt, you should wait a little bit until you're clearly thinking and have kind of reflected on the things that you wanna say.

4 (18m 45s):
Okay. So step one, take a deep breath and try to cool down

3 (18m 50s):
And step two, use your imagination to try to understand what the other person could be feeling and thinking.

4 (18m 58s):
Got

10 (18m 58s):
It. The most important thing when you're resolving conflict with a friend is to figure out together how you're gonna do it differently going forward. So you don't end up in the same situation again.

3 (19m 9s):
Okay?

10 (19m 10s):
If you're someone who had your feelings hurt, I would suggest that you say how you feel, tell them how you would like to be treated differently or how you think you can resolve it. If you're somebody who hurt someone else's feelings, I would say that you need to own what you did. Take responsibility for it. You need to try to understand where the other person's coming from and you need to tell them how you're gonna do it differently. Next time,

3 (19m 39s):
Kiara, I don't wanna fight with you.

4 (19m 41s):
I don't wanna fight with you either. Izzy. You're my friend. And I love learning on the island of explained with you.

3 (19m 48s):
Me too. Although I have to admit, I would like to find a portal off the island and get back home.

4 (19m 54s):
Same, but how unicorn of empathy can you help us get home?

3 (20m 5s):
Well, okay. Let's hop on

4 (20m 14s):
Izzy. I'm sorry. I hurt your feelings. When I said nobody cares about spaghetti science. I know you love spaghetti and a lot of other people do

3 (20m 22s):
Too. And I know you are just so excited about colors. We can't see and I have to admit it is a pretty good podcast idea.

4 (20m 30s):
Thanks Izzy. Maybe next time we could come up with a topic together.

3 (20m 34s):
I'd love to do that, but what could it be?

4 (20m 37s):
Hmm, maybe there's a great topic, right? Under our noses. Maybe this is the podcast. Hmm. What? We just did listening. Oh

3 (20m 46s):
Yeah. We can learn about the ears and the brain

4 (20m 50s):
And the unicorn of empathy.

3 (20m 51s):
Of course the unicorn of empathy. Hey, what's that over there

4 (20m 56s):
Is that a portal?

3 (20m 60s):
We made it back

4 (21m 1s):
And it's all thanks to you.

3 (21m 3s):
And you,

6 (21m 12s):
This episode was written and produced by Sohi schvitz. The team at transmitter media includes Isabelle Carter, Kiara Powell, Daphne Chen, and Sarah. Next, the team at Fox includes Noah Haston Feld and bird Pinkerton. Our executive producers are GTA Cohen and Catherine Wells. Merla GE is our fact checker, Sophia landman sound design, and mix the series special. Thanks to Dr. Aaron. Clak a neuroscientist at the university of Virginia and to her unicorn of empathy, you can hear all of our episodes and fine related activities@fox.com slash today. Dash explained dash two dash kids.

KiwiCo (21m 60s):
Children are like messy, little sponges, constantly absorbing lessons, no matter where they go, but that learning shouldn't stop over summer break. Kiwi co offers, monthly projects built to help kids learn new skills, flex their creative muscles and grow like never before Kiwi co delivers. Super cool hands on art, geography, science and technology projects for kids of all ages straight to your door every month. Right now you can get an exclusive Kiwi co and V bundle perfectly designed to fill your kid's summer downtime with discovery. Get 50% off your first month on any subscription line with code V 50 Kiwi co.com/box.