1 (8s):
This episode features some descriptions of violence and of it's terribly graphic, but this is a heads-up if you need it. We will start in a moment. Jen Williams calls the vaux's worldly podcast the president's made a big announcement this weekend who died

2 (24s):
Abu Bakr al-baghdadi the head of Isis. His full name is actually Ibrahim Awad Ibrahim Al badri, but he goes by Abu Bakr al-baghdadi. That's his cunha his War nickname. Basically, he's the head honcho of Isis. He was the big guy in charge and he's dead. Where's he from? He's from Iraq he grew up and kind of middle-class family in Iraq. He was very religious growing up. He actually did his master's thesis on this really obscure like medieval quranic text interpretation. And then the Iraq War

1 (54s):
happened first poster second Bush second Bush got

2 (57s):
it u.s. Invades Iraq in 2003 Iraq kind of turns into chaos. You have the u.s. Basically disbands the Iraqi military the baathist regime and they kind of all scattered. There's no structure. There's no military. There's no security forces. So the u.s. Is fighting all these different people on the ground. It actually ends up arresting Abu Bakr al-baghdadi and around 2004 and putting him in Camp Bucca, which is this really notorious us prison in Iraq. And it basically became this kind of terrorist training camp if people were able to network in this facility and he comes out and basically as a lot more connections and is really pissed off and then goes on to kind of basically exploit the chaos on the ground that Proceeded out of the Iraq War flash-forward he creates this kind of really powerful organization.

2 (1m 53s):
It kind of morphs out of this other organization al-Qaeda in Iraq and can turns into this thing. He becomes a rising star and eventually consolidates power and takes over and then 2015 happens. Isis takes over entire chunks of Iraq and Syria, and he becomes this monster this horrific figure who's giving speeches and calling for you know, the beheadings of people and calling for you know Declaration of this caliphate. So so he was the figurehead of

1 (2m 21s):
Isis radical home. Cab home. So how does he go from like Peak caliphate to hiding out in

2 (2m 33s):
Syria are basically the u.s. Decides to fight Isis because Isis start carrying out attacks takes over again entire chunks of Iraq and Syria, and then, you know, Isis starts inspiring attacks from you know, homegrown extremists you in the United States and in Europe, so the united states recognizes. This is a really serious thing and starts, you know fighting them and The efforts of both the us but also Kurdish fighters on the ground are Kurdish kind of allies in Syria, basically decimate the caliphate and take it out. So he goes to ground al-baghdadi basically goes into hiding. Nobody really knows where he is. Everyone's trying to find him the caliphates crumbling heaps really like not very present.

2 (3m 15s):
He only would release videos maybe like once a year if that was mostly his spokespeople and the fighters on the ground who were doing that and he was just kind of like And the scenes like the man behind the curtain pulling the strings, but it turns out he was basically hiding in this compound and in Northwestern

1 (3m 30s):
Syria. And is this Syria that's controlled by Syria Syria that's controlled by

2 (3m 35s):
that's mostly Al-Qaeda controlled area of Syria is not the part of Syria. We've been talking about in previous episodes where the u.s. Is

1 (3m 42s):
is the United States looking for him this whole

2 (3m 44s):
time for the past, you know five months or so, there's been this kind of effort to try to locate him starting the summer basically forces captured one of his wives. And a career so we essentially arrest and interrogate one of his wives and a courier we get some kind of board general information as to where he is and then we had this disaffected Isis member who basically turned on Isis and started becoming an informant for the Kurds and was working with them for a couple

1 (4m 15s):
months. These are the Kurds who have been helping United States fight Isis by now feel betrayed.

2 (4m 20s):
But yeah, they basically ended up in the past couple weeks getting okay, very pinpointed location as to where baghdady was and they planned this raid on this compound.

1 (4m 30s):
So the president described this raid in great detail yesterday during a press conference he gave he did what exactly happened as far as we

2 (4m 37s):
know. So as far as we know there were basically some Delta Force members. So these are like the super Elite fighting

1 (4m 44s):
force. We had eight helicopters and we had many other ships and planes

2 (4m 50s):
there was a military dog or two. There was a robot just in

1 (4m 53s):
case because we Brady had a suicide vest on and if you get close to him and he blows it up you're going to die.

2 (4m 59s):
It's a really small Force like fewer than a hundred soldiers on the ground these eight helicopters take off from a base in Iraq. They land. It's this town called boresha. It's an idlib province in Syria. It's three miles south of the Turkish border and they tried to call baghdady out first and said, hey, you know, do you want to come out and surrender? He basically said no the US forces blast open a side of the wall. They go in that way. Way back Daddy escapes to these like tunnels. There's this like underground bunker tunnel system that ran underneath this house compound and he apparently took a wrong turn and went to a dead end and he had

1 (5m 37s):
dragged three of his young children with him. They were led to certain death. He reached the end of the tunnel as our dogs chased him down. He ignited his vest killing himself and the three children basically

2 (5m 59s):
soldiers end up having to dig through the rubble after the Smoke Clears and they find his remains. They do a rapid DNA test within 15 minutes

1 (6m 7s):
test results gave certain. Immediate and totally positive identification it was him

2 (6m 16s):
and then finally as they were lifting off u.s. Fighter jets fired six rockets at the compound basically just detonated the whole

1 (6m 23s):
place right photo it is just like

2 (6m 25s):
a crater and yeah, it's just like rubble a lot of this

1 (6m 28s):
is reminiscent of the raid on Bin Laden. Yeah and the execution of Bin Laden. With one glaring difference, which is of course, we have a different president who handled the announcement a little differently.

2 (6m 41s):
Yeah. So if you remember and if you don't remember, I'll bring you back to it when we found out. You know that Osama. Bin Laden has been killed Obama comes out to the podium. He gives this very kind of tight short speech

1 (6m 54s):
tonight. I can report to the American people and to the world that the United States has conducted an operation that killed Osama Bin Laden the leader. Our of al-Qaeda and a terrorist who's responsible for the murder of thousands of innocent men women and

2 (7m 11s):
children gives barely any details about what happened just that there was this raid on this compound he talks about how we are not at war with Islam. You know, we were at war with these very specific terrorists and then he leaves and that's it right now Trump on the other hand comes out and gives a little bit of a

1 (7m 27s):
statement last night. The United States brought the world's number one terrorist leader. Justice Abu

2 (7m 37s):
bakar

1 (7m 38s):
al-baghdadi is dead

2 (7m 41s):
and then proceeds to take questions for like the next 40 minutes in which he says all kinds of stuff.

1 (7m 46s):
I got to watch it along with General. Milley vice president Pence others in the situation room, and we watched it so clearly I don't want to say how but we had absolutely perfect as though you were watching a movie called al-baghdadi a dog. I don't know how many times he died like a dog. It

2 (8m 11s):
was intense. Yeah, he describes him as like a coward and crying and whimpering and running down the tunnels and killing himself and it was basically what you would expect from Trump, but it's not what you would expect from a u.s. President. Do you think's Russia which people thought was kind of weird. Actually had to fly over Russian military controlled territory actually makes sense. You know, he divulges all these like really complicated details about the raid and like talking about the tunnels and the

1 (8m 41s):
compound the tunnels were dead end for the most part. There was one we think that wasn't but we had that covered too just in

2 (8m 49s):
case this was like he was you know, he had just seen an action movie. Yeah, it was super stoked and was like, oh we totally killed this bad guy

1 (8m 57s):
buy my books, you know, if you read my book, there was a book just For the World Trade Center came down,

2 (9m 1s):
right and buy my books.

1 (9m 4s):
I think I wrote 12 books all did very well.

2 (9m 6s):
But you also have to remember that like the name of the raid. It was named for Kayla Mueller the US Aid worker who was abducted and repeatedly raped by baghdady himself before she was killed so they named The Raid after her so you would hope at least the president would have a little bit more kind of understanding of the tone. And the somber nature of the moment. What does this actually

1 (9m 28s):
mean for Isis is the death of Al-baghdadi a big blow to the

2 (9m 32s):
organization. So yes, and no he was the figurehead. He was the founder of Isis, right? So symbolically. Yes, it's a big deal operationally not so much right because the way terrorist organizations in particular Isis operate is that they you know, devolve power significantly two different cells and two different branches, right? So by that measure the organization is still able to operate without him and then you have to talk about the the US forces, right? Still leaving Syria. This doesn't change that we're going to be keeping some troops to protect the oil from Isis, but we're not going to have like an active force on the ground. We're not going to be working with the Kurds to fight Isis.

2 (10m 12s):
So I think that actually even more than baghdady is probably the impact we're going to see on Isis the withdrawal of US troops is a net gain for Isis, whereas, you know this killing it back Daddy. Yeah. The setback but it's not necessarily something that is going to Cripple the organization.

1 (10m 48s):
Can I just get your name and how you would like us to identify you for the record?

2 (10m 52s):
My name is Mona yacoubian. I'm a senior advisor at The u.s. Institute of Peace.

1 (10m 58s):
And and what does that mean Mona specifically with regard to Syria.

2 (11m 1s):
So I joined the Institute a few years ago having had extensive experience working on Syria both in government. And then before in the think tank World well before that I was a Fulbright in Syria back in the mid 80s. So I focused largely on Syria and turkey. My analysis but I also provide a lot of strategic advice and Consulting to the vice president who's in charge of the Middle East and

1 (11m 26s):
Africa the vice president of the United States. No. No.

2 (11m 31s):
Wow, that was just saying no divided the vice president of the u.s. Institute of Peace a vice president several. My formal title is actually senior advisor to the vice president for Middle East and Africa

1 (11m 47s):
Okay, so We've been talking a lot about Syria in the past few weeks, but we haven't asked of vital question. I'm wondering if we can start with that which is up until President Trump made this decision with the president of Turkey a few weeks ago to pull out United States troops who was in control of Syria.

2 (12m 6s):
Well, that's a complicated question because Syria has been since the onset of this conflict now almost 9 years ago. It's been fragmented with the regime of Bashar. Assad gaining increasing control over the western part of Syria. So up to three weeks ago. The regime had controlled about two-thirds of the country close to then there's a portion of the country that remains under the control of extremists that are somehow connected to Al-Qaeda then in the Far East about thirty percent of the country was under the control.

2 (12m 48s):
Of the Syrian Democratic forces, which is a kurdish-controlled armed group that has been the partner of the United States on the ground. And in addition. You also had a portion of Northwestern Syria controlled by turkey and some of its Syrian proxies on the ground inside Syria. So a very complicated picture with fragmented control.

1 (13m 13s):
Okay, Syria, Al Qaeda Syrian Kurds and turkey And we know turkeys presence there grows significantly, once the US troops pull out. Are there any other big changes in the past few weeks?

2 (13m 27s):
Well, yeah a big change was that when the u.s. Announced its decision to withdraw from Northeast Syria, the Russians who have been a strong supporter and Ally of the Assad regime began to almost immediately fill the vacuum left by u.s. Troops withdrawing so much so that you had even Then Russian journalists videoing themselves at abandoned us outposts. Just a matter of a day or two after the US had left and behind the Russians of course are also the forces of the Syrian regime. So this has begun to change the picture if you will in eastern Syria were areas that were once controlled by the US Partners on the ground.

2 (14m 11s):
The Kurds are slowly devolving back to the control of the US. Assad regime backed by

1 (14m 19s):
Russia. Does this killing of al-baghdadi over the weekend in Northwestern Syria a portion of Syria that's controlled by Al-Qaeda. Does that change anything about the Power Balance in that country?

2 (14m 30s):
You know, it doesn't affect the Power Balance directly. Obviously. It's a huge setback for Isis and Isis is an actor on the ground in Syria. They no longer control territory, but there has been and continues to be concerned about an Isis Resurgence the organization. Has been quite decentralized and so in a lot of ways, it won't have a direct effect on the balance of power in Northern Syria or Northeastern Syria there. I think the real issue is going to be the extent to which turkey and Russia are able to fulfill an agreement that they had negotiated that will allow for a joint patrols between turkey and Russia along a good portion of the border and that also allows turkey to retain.

2 (15m 18s):
Control of a portion of the Northeast that its forces had invaded now almost three weeks ago.

1 (15m 25s):
It's sort of curious to talk about who controls this country in terms of the United States and Turkey and Russia when so much of our discussions about Syria used to have to do with Bashar al-assad. How is his power of the country viewed right

2 (15m 38s):
now? Well, I mean if anything the events over the last few weeks have actually read down did to his benefit with the Vision for the u.s. To withdraw he now without really having to fire a shot. His regime is able to begin to assume control in eastern Syria and this begins to fulfill his vow that he would retake, you know every square kilometer of the country. So while not much is being said about him in some ways Assad is the sort of the silent winner in all of this in terms of being able to regain control of a very important.

2 (16m 18s):
Portent part of

1 (16m 18s):
Syria does that mean that he essentially won this war?

2 (16m 22s):
Well really depends on how you define when he's won in the sense that his hold on power. At least for the short to medium term is no longer really contested. And if anything he has continued as I said to consolidate control to gain access to more territory, but what kind of Syria is he going to be? Ruling over is a whole nother question. It is a highly fractured violent broken country the International Community remains arrayed against him. There's a vow not to provide any sort of reconstruction funding to this country that's been badly damaged by nearly a decade of war and he's contending with sort of creeping Insurgency and violence even in areas that he's he's already regained control over which suggests that while he does sit firmly in Damascus his hold on power over the long-term serious stability is very much in

1 (17m 32s):
question. What does that mean for the syrians who remain in the

2 (17m 35s):
country? Unfortunately, I think it means that the syrians who live in Syria continue to live a life of great suffering a large number of syrians require Humanity. And assistance much of the country has been destroyed many of their homes and schools. There's no economy to speak of no jobs. And this is really quite stunning when one thinks about the fact that prior to this conflict. This was a solidly middle income country and now there's really no hope or Prospect of any sort of peaceful reconciliation in the near term.

1 (18m 16s):
Do you have any idea how many people have fled? The country at this point and and how much of the population remains as a I don't know a

2 (18m 21s):
percentage over half of the country has been displaced as though it's about 13 million people have been displaced over the course of this war of those about six and a half million are refugees outside of the country and then the rest have been displaced internally some of those people actually displaced multiple times. And so these are people that really Janet Leigh, they have been on the run for years many of their children are not able to attend school those that are refugees in neighboring countries are living really really difficult life. We're finding increasingly that host countries whether it's turkey or Lebanon are becoming increasingly impatient with hosting large numbers of Syrian refugees and indeed.

2 (19m 14s):
That's what Turkish president erdogan said was one of the The reasons that he insisted on invading Northeastern Syria and creating what he's calling a safe Zone was in order to return one to two million Syrian refugees from Turkey back into

1 (19m 31s):
Syria. Hmm. But with turkey and Russia and al-assad in control here, what does the future of Syria look like for these people who are still there or might be coming back?

2 (19m 45s):
Well, I think you know in particular this question of returning Syrian refugees who live in Turkey right now back to this part of Syria, that's very problematic because many of them are not from that part of Syria and and there are portions of this area in Syria that are predominantly curd while the Syrian refugees in Turkey are predominantly Arab. So forcing them back into this part of Syria, some people are saying, you know, this could lead to a scenario of mass displacement and even ethnic cleansing of Kurds that live in that area what's clear is that you know, it's unlikely that this will be a stable area and that if syrians are in fact Just back from Turkey into this part of Syria Unfortunately, they may they may find that they are confronting, you know yet more more conflict more instability.

1 (20m 43s):
Yeah, and so I mean Money, you've what you've studied Syria for like decades. It sounds

2 (20m 50s):
like well my experience goes back to the mid 80s when I was a Fulbright student there. So yes, I've had a long sort of long-standing experience and understanding of the

1 (20m 60s):
country, I guess in your 30 years of experience. Where does this country stand right

2 (21m 6s):
now? Well again, I think unfortunately the prospects for peace or stability in Syria. Remain very distant. It's a country in which The issues that first started as basically a peaceful protests by syrians is part of what was once called the Arab Spring those drivers of conflict have not been addressed. And in fact what's happened is the conflict has evolved now into something that is multiplayer Regional even global conflict. And so we have many now overlapping conflicts in Syria.

2 (21m 48s):
The one that we've seen most dramatically in the last few weeks is a conflict between turkey and the Kurds. There's also conflict between Israel and Iran that's being played out in Syria. There's dish in between the United States and Russia. And so what started as sort of peaceful protests in 2011 has now evolved into a multi-faceted multi-layered. Lex conflict that unfortunately really shows little sign of being resolved anytime

1 (22m 23s):
soon. Mona yacoubian is a senior advisor at The u.s. Institute of Peace here in Washington DC. She advises a vice president, but not the vice president. I'm Shawn Rama's firm. This is today explained.