3 (5s):
It's Wednesday, March 25th, and the country's gearing Up to Make It Rain two trillion dollars. I'm Sean Rama's firm. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained the biggest stimulus package in the history of modern American politics hasn't yet passed but Congress has reached a deal on the legislation much more on that in today's episode. While the crisis continues to worsen in New York City where Governor Cuomo says cases are doubling every three days and as many as a hundred and forty thousand people might need medical care in the next few weeks people leaving New York City have been told to self quarantine for 14 days in England Prince Charles has tested positive for covid-19.

3 (51s):
For those of you who haven't watched the crown. He's the heir to the throne. The queen herself isn't self-isolation and turns 90 for next month in Spain. The covid-19 death toll has now surpassed China's. It's around 3400 second only to Italy Spain has asked NATO to step in and help with the epidemic and today is day one of India's full lockdown 1.3 billion people or one fifth of the world's population. Lastly Washington DC is National Cathedral said one of its stonemasons recently discovered boxes containing more than 5,000 respirator masks in the His crypt the Washington Post reports that the masks had been purchased in 2006 during an earlier Health scare and will be donated to to local hospitals.

3 (1m 39s):
So check your Crepes people your healthcare workers need those masks get in touch with today explained. We're on Twitter at today underscore explained. I'm at Rama's firm email us today explain it vox.com and you can call and leave a message at two. Oh two six eight eight five nine four four. My email inbox is any indication. It's a it's a tough time for a lot of businesses right now. And also potentially a good time for some others. If you're trying to ramp up netsuite by Oracle wants to help by giving you a full picture of your business finance inventory HR customers and more all in one place from work or from home convenient anytime anywhere.

3 (2m 23s):
You can use a netsuite the number one Cloud business system right now, you get your product or and free guide six ways to run a more profitable business at netsuite.com explained that his Nets Dot-com explained this episode is brought to you by US Cellular. There's never been a better time to switch to US Cellular because now when you do you'll get 50% off select new smart phones like the Samsung Galaxy S 10 E4 the Google pixel for a great choice on a great phone now, that's fair US Cellular choose Fair terms apply.

1 (3m 16s):
Madam president after five days of arduous negotiations after sleep-deprived nights and Marathon negotiating sessions. We have a bipartisan agreement on the Rescue package in American history.

3 (3m 35s):
Ella Nelson box Congress has agreed on a two trillion dollar stimulus package its historic nothing like it has happened ever before in American politics at least in the modern era and and it makes the 2008 stimulus which is something like 800 billion dollars look like small potatoes. How did we get here? So it's important to remember that the the deal that Congress reached on this two trillion. Dollar stimulus package very early this morning. This is phase three of the coronavirus bills. So a couple weeks ago we had phase one which was a relatively small eight billion dollars for research and development for Coronavirus vaccine research then last week.

3 (4m 21s):
We had a hundred and four billion dollar bill that went for free testing coronavirus testing for every American including those for uninsured and Did paid sick leave and other things even though there were some loopholes and that bill but this as you say this was this was the big one. This is a two trillion dollar package. That kind of has something for everyone. It has 500 billion dollars for big businesses. It has direct payments to Americans that are struggling and on an expanded unemployment insurance and it has money for hospitals. Okay. Well, let's talk about each of the sort of buckets one by one starting.

3 (5m 2s):
I'm with the aid to businesses. This was the sort of contentious element that held this thing up a few extra days, right? Yeah. So this is a 500 billion Dollar Loan program for big businesses, including you know, airline companies, you know people like companies that have have seen through no fault of their own their business just drop off entirely because people aren't flying economic activity is is really ground to a halt so compared to 2008 and 2009 when we were babies. selling out banks that had kind of arguably caused the financial crisis that we found ourselves in, you know, the government is now quote-unquote bailing out these big businesses that are seeing a huge loss of Revenue due to coronavirus that they obviously did not cause so the reason that this was so controversial was initially in the first draft that Senate Republicans put out late last week the Trump Administration and the treasury receive minuchin had very large discretion over this five hundred billion Dollar Loan program

1 (6m 8s):
Bill still includes something that most Americans don't want to see large corporate bailouts with Noah most no strings attached maybe the majority leader thinks it's unfair to ask protections for workers and labor to companies that are getting hundreds of billions of dollars. We think it's very fair to ask for those. Those are not extraneous issues. That is a wish list for workers. else and so we are looking for protection. Well looking for oversight.

3 (6m 39s):
So if you're worried that you know, Steven minuchin was just going to hand out billions of dollars to companies that were favorable to the president that ain't going to happen anymore. Yeah, it's going to have oversight attached to it. There's going to be an inspector General within the treasury Department and potentially a congressional oversight panel. So, you know, there are going to be outside people other than Steven minutia, and now looking to see you. How the money will be spent having input on on how these loans will be doled out to businesses and it's 500 billion dollars that are going to go to like big corporations how much money was set aside for small businesses three hundred and sixty seven billion dollars for a small business loan program, huh?

3 (7m 20s):
It's just interesting like three hundred and sixty seven billion dollars can certainly Shore up companies that are losing money right now, but it can't bring them back the business that they need to thrive. Right? Well, I mean all Ultimately, the only thing that can bring these small businesses back is is consumer spending. Right? Right. We just can't do that right now. So and this was sort of the argument that Democrats were making throughout negotiations was you know, this this trickle-down stuff and bailing out these these big companies isn't necessarily going to get to the root of the problem because the root of the problem is just that people are trapped in their homes right now and they're not going out and you know spending money at their local.

3 (8m 3s):
France and spending money at stores. I think that what Democrats were arguing is, you know, we and and Republicans to be fair came around to this idea pretty quickly to of direct cash payments to people because ultimately what you're trying to do is is get people spending again. Well, let's talk about what individuals are getting what kind of cash are regular people going to get out of this two trillion dollar stimulus that regular people will pay for if you are an American Adults who is making $75,000 or less? Annually, you will probably be seeing a twelve hundred dollar check or direct deposit show up in your mailbox or your bank account or however, it's going to be delivered to the American people and it's important to note.

3 (8m 48s):
This is a one-time check thus far unless Congress comes back and approves additional money to get people additional checks. So if you make more than $75,000 you are not going to receive that full amount it kind of depends on your In common, basically the idea is that people who are pretty comfortable right now and are making a lot of money don't necessarily need as much government assistance. There will also be a $500 payment if you have kids so $500 payment to cover every child in qualifying households, what else can individuals expect out of this two trillion dollars another big thing that Democrats were talking about that. They got out of negotiations was what Chuck Schumer likes to call quote unemployment insurance on Ed's nice and this is increasing unemployment insurance by $600 per week for four months.

3 (9m 41s):
So if you are laid off and you are getting unemployment insurance due to coronavirus you are eligible for an additional six hundred dollars per week to again, you know help you cover your basic expenses, like rent and food medical costs Etc. So this money is an addition to what states pay as a base unemployment salary and it's important to note that this benefit extends to People who work in the gig economy. So, you know Uber and Lyft drivers, you know Postmates delivery people people who are Freelancers and then also furloughed workers and these are workers who are not no longer getting a paycheck but are still getting health insurance from their employers and then the third bucket of this is is Medical Aid its Hospital a day to health care workers.

3 (10m 27s):
Is that right? This is you know right now especially in in hard-hit places like, New York. Hospitals are struggling to meet. I mean, they they don't have enough capacity for the patients that they're seeing. A lot of them are complaining that they don't have enough basic medical equipment like ventilators and masks there are big shortages in that. So what Congress has done here for hospitals is add an additional hundred and fifty billion dollars to hospitals who are treating coronavirus patients. Is this going to be enough? Especially when we talk about Aid to hospitals and Healthcare professionals? It just sounds like it might be too late.

3 (11m 7s):
I mean New York has already had to suffer as a result of lack of supplies and lack of hospital beds. I mean and then more broadly speaking is this enough to shore up Americans and and American businesses and the economy. I mean that is the two trillion dollar question and I I don't think we know at this point. We're already seeing you know, more headlines of more people getting sick death rates are also going up as well. So we haven't yet seen the worst of this. I think that there is a good chance that if Congress sees the need that they can come back and pass more money.

3 (11m 51s):
There is there's always a way for them to do that. But despite President Trump saying yesterday that you know, he wants this all wrapped up by Easter. There is no immediate light at the end. End of the tunnel and you know, I don't think we know yet if two trillion dollars is enough to save us from the damage that coronavirus is is wreaking not only to Public Health, but also to the economy after the break I asked Ezra Klein the two trillion dollar question. It's today explained.

3 (12m 34s):
Tech has consequences and recode by Vox is exploring them all with a new multi-platform journalism project called open sourced through videos and articles open-sourced will explore and demystify controversial issues surrounding technology everything from facial recognition and surveillance to how add micro-targeting will affect the 2020 election. The project is supported by omidyar Network a Global Network of innovators entrepreneurs and technologists committed to addressing the most Economic technological and societal issues of our time check out open sourced at vox.com open-sourced find out everything you need to know about the hidden consequences of tech box.com open-sourced.

3 (13m 26s):
How many of you have heard of ring? How about hint? How about tech Ovis? I've heard of ring. Anyway, all of these companies have one thing in common. They all use netsuite to accelerate their growth and netsuite would like to help you accelerate your business growth from wherever you are at your office by yourself. Hopefully 6 feet away from anyone else or at home, maybe still six feet away from anyone else right now. I'm in a closet. For example. Anyway, netsuite will give you a full picture of your business finance inventory HR. Murmurs and more everything you need to grow all in one place and you'll get the visibility and control you need to make the right decisions and grow with confidence, hopefully and right now you can schedule a free product tour of netsuite.

3 (14m 18s):
You can receive your free guide six ways to run a more profitable business and netsuite.com explained that is netsuite.com. / explained exp. La iined netsuite it. Could be sweet but not spelled that way sui te is the sweet we're talking about here. Good evening. Ezra Klein, even with this two trillion dollar stimulus. There's a recession coming. If not already here.

3 (14m 58s):
Do we know how bad it's gonna be? How will it compare to the last one in 2008

1 (15m 4s):
right. Now the early economic data suggests. It will be much worse at least its peak than what we had in 2008, which is not something I thought I would be saying any time soon 2008 was supposed to be a once-in-a-generation economic flood and now we're looking at something. That is not even generationally supposed to be possible. So if you look at early unemployment filings, they potentially went up to 3 million over the past week. We've just never seen a number like that. If you look at what Goldman Sachs and some other economic forecasters are forecasting for the GDP drop in the second quarter of the year. They're now up to a 24 percentage Point drop. That would be the single worst quarter in the history of GDP statistics treasury secretary.

1 (15m 49s):
Steve magician is said that unemployment would go up to 20% before he walked that back but then over the weekend a the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of st. Louis said he thought 30% was possible at least for a minute. So we're looking at something that at the very least at its worst could be unbelievably bad and one reason it could be unbelievably bad is that this is really different and it's Dynamics and not just 2008 but really any recession we can think of it in memory. We it's almost not correct to think about this as a recession. This is a Mission of a recession a financial crisis potentially a war and a natural

3 (16m 28s):
disaster great. Great. And this is just the opening Salvo of this recession crisis War natural disaster.

1 (16m 36s):
Yeah. I spoke to Mark zandi. Who is the chief Economist at Moody's Analytics. So he's a very well-respected economic forecaster and his partner Moody's they get a lot of incoming economic data survey data actual data all the time. So they tend to know where the economy is going just about before. Anyone else and I've spoken as and a lot over the years and he was sounding almost apocalyptic here, but to be more specific what he said is we're going to see four waves of economic pain. The first wave is the sudden stop of the economy. That's what we're in right now, right? I can't go into work the way I normally would the restaurants in my town are closed and non-essential businesses are closed. People are Sheltering in place Wave 2, which is already here as well is unemployment.

1 (17m 19s):
People are laying off their workers. Because they have no sales coming it people are cutting back hours among their workers Mariette furloughed a huge amount of their staff. So mass unemployment is just beginning but already we're seeing numbers like nothing we've ever seen before then the third wave is what he called the wealth effect. So there are all these people who have 401ks. They have money saved in the market for their retirement. This is true for everybody was particularly true for older people who are towards the end or past the end of their earning years and now they're seeing seeing those savings wiped out and so there's a lot of spending from this group that is going to disappear and then the fourth wave is business investment.

1 (17m 60s):
So you think of Corporations or even small businesses that were thinking of opening up a second location upgrading to better office space there a media organization is going to start a new publication, whatever it might be that's all going to go on hold. So all that spending them is going to upgrade machines create new capital create new products. A lot of that is going to disappear from the economy for a while.

3 (18m 23s):
So obvious and he's for waves were living at least the first two already the economy stops unemployment soars the next to our imminent. If not already hear people can't retire and realize their dreams and industry has to scale back. Is there a way out so those

1 (18m 40s):
four waves zandi said they're definitely going to happen like they are already happening. But there's a question now is the kind of recession we have what's called a v-shaped recession where the Economy plummets in let's call it quarter to maybe quarter 3 and then rebound super powerfully and potentially quarter 3 but quarter for and then into 2021 in that case. This will be bad but not that bad. But Sandy said and this is I think clearly true is two things could happen that could disrupt that and this is particularly going to happen. If we don't get the disease under control quickly. The first thing that could happen is we set up a financial crisis a financial Panic somewhere. So we're already seeing very scary things happen.

1 (19m 21s):
Debt markets in bond markets in currency markets are a lot of both countries and companies that need a lot of US Dollars and they're having trouble getting them. The FED is out with a huge amount of new programs right now to try to deal with this but it's pretty scary. So if we have two thousand eight in reverse a problem in the real economy that creates a contagion in the financial economy. That's going to be very very hard to fix that's going to be years to dig out of the second, which is also I think very very present as a danger is a mask. Wave of business failures more than fifty percent of small businesses cannot survive more than a couple of months without sales. They just don't have a big nest egg small businesses tend to be reasonably low.

1 (20m 2s):
Margin. It's actually even a lot of big businesses can survive for very long in a very down economy if their receipts have gone down 50% 75% And so if you have mass closures then not only when the economy does come back, do you have to rebuild those businesses or something like them, you know, and that's Right, you need to figure out Lisa's Pew places need to rebuild. They need to hire new people. But also it's not like they're workers can then just come right back on they have to find new jobs. There's matching costs. It's hard to search there's a lot of uncertainty in that. And so if you have a huge wave of business failures, it's very hard to come back because you've lost a lot of the structure in which the economic growth could have happened. Once you got back on your feet.

1 (20m 43s):
So preventing those two things a financial crisis and a mass wave of business failures. That's really really important.

3 (20m 50s):
And Congress is hoping that's what this stimulus will do. But what if it doesn't if that's the best case scenario, what's the worst

1 (20m 58s):
who I don't even think the worst-case scenario right now is primarily economic. I mean the worst case scenario is an unchecked pandemic with millions of deaths. Hugely overwhelmed Health Systems creating behind it a total economic catastrophe in some ways the worst case scenario to me is one that we are beginning to flirt with because the worst case scenario is that It we lose our nerve here at the front end. There is an enormous return to acting quickly. You prevent many more cases. If you are able to stop one person from passing on the disease to after that person has passed it on to ten people if you're trying to stop 10 people from passing it on.

1 (21m 38s):
We are already seeing at the highest levels of our political leadership a blink.

3 (21m 46s):
My message is that

1 (21m 49s):
let's get back to work. Let's get back to living. Let's

3 (21m 52s):
be smart about it. And those of us who are 70 plus will take care of ourselves, but don't sacrifice the country don't do that.

1 (21m 59s):
Our country wants to go back to work and and again the Cure it's like this cure is is worse than the problem. Again people many people in my opinion more people are going to die. If we allow this to continue There is this fantasy of an economy out there that you Somehow just have the economy operating at full potential even as a disease is killing and hospitalizing millions of people all at once right 911s every day in this country. And I think they're wrong right now. The curve of new cases in America is vertical. We are rising faster than Italy was at this point. That's very scary because this is an exponential curve as you rise faster you then rise even faster.

1 (22m 45s):
And so if what happens is we let off the pressure when it is currently completely uncontrolled. What I think is going to happen. Is it 3 months from now or even two months from now, maybe even just three weeks from now when our health system is overwhelmed. There's going to be an enormous demand for a quarantine an enormous demand to get this under control and that will happen when the economy is now gotten much worse. So Jason Furman who was Obama's former Chief Economist, but has been writing about this a lot on Twitter and elsewhere has made this good point that he thinks that the correct way to understand the choice here is between so Williston seeing right now and a quite bad economy six months from now or two months of nothing and then two months of even more extreme social distancing followed by a much worse economy after that and so the nightmare scenario for me is one where we've let the disease get completely out of control and that also spins the economy out of control.

1 (23m 46s):
And I don't know I can't I honestly cannot believe that after five days of acting like a real president or trying to act like a real president that Donald Trump seems to have lost his taste for this and is now telling people we're going to be back at work in two weeks. We we just need better than that right now. We just do

3 (24m 9s):
what is he missing? What are all the people who are looking at these unprecedented Economic Consequences over? For two million people filing for unemployment who warrant two weeks ago who are looking at something much worse than a recession and saying is this really worth it. What are they missing?

1 (24m 28s):
The hardest thing in politics is to Force pay now to prevent more pain later and it's not that they're missing something exactly. It's at their living in the present and not in the future what Donald Trump would any political leader what any leader needs to do? In an organization is live somewhat in the future is see where things are going and work backwards from there. So the organization is prepared be that organization a country or a company that is what we're doing. Even at VOX media right now. We are trying to think about what all this is going to mean for our business and trying to work backwards to how we need to prepare. Donald Trump is a very present focused person and he runs a very present focused Administration.

1 (25m 13s):
And what is happening right now is that they are feeling Bring the pain of social distancing and it is real pain. The unemployment filings the GDP projections. It is real pain suffering. It is a horror. what he is not able to feel yet and so he's not truly responding to is the kind of economic social political and human pain of this disease flying out of control of what it will mean if you can't go deliver a baby or get treated for a heart condition because you're stepping over bodies in the hospital infectious bodies of what it will mean if we have a national shortage of nurses doctors respiratory therapists Etc that He is responding to the political pressure on him now and the things that he can feel now the pain we are causing now as opposed to the pain.

1 (26m 8s):
We are trying to prevent And if every epidemiologist and public health expert and frankly even just what we're seeing in other countries is right. The pain we are trying to prevent is a lot worse. Now, we can't ignore the pain we would cause on the way we need more than stimulus. We need economic support. We need to have the political imagination. Nation and will and ambition to make this possible. We are not going to get out of this without real economic damage. Either way that is built-in, but we could get out of it with a lot of humanity a lot of social support we could also if we had anywhere near the kind of imagination required for crisis like this we could get out of it with a better structure for our economy all together, right?

1 (26m 52s):
It could be that out of this people get guaranteed paid leave as every other industrialized country has guaranteed Health Care. You could imagine using this as a moment to say. Oh. We are so interdependent that we can't just have solidarity in the moments of Crisis. We need to have it all the time. It's not that it would stop people from losing their jobs. It's not that stimulus or basic income payments are going to stop them from hurting. We're not going to stop the hurt here, but we can do a lot to build better structures to protect people from it now and in the future,

3 (27m 32s):
As we thank you, and we'll be in

1 (27m 34s):
touch. Thank you.