0 (1s):
The first 2024 Republican presidential debate is here. Fox News is hosting tonight in Milwaukee.

1 (12s):
Actually, it's pronounced

2 (13s):
Lyke, which is Algonquin for the Good Land.

0 (17s):
But weirdly, the front runner slash accused felon slash former president isn't gonna be there.

1 (24s):
It is what it is.

0 (27s):
But another Florida man will be as Will Vivek uncle and the former Vice president. I love

1 (35s):
My mom

0 (36s):
And a handful of people you've probably never heard of rude, but Fox really wants you to watch it. We're gonna find out why and get you ready for it, whether you're gonna watch it or not. On today's plane,

3 (1m 0s):
10 years ago, chance the rapper released a mix tape called Acid Rap. It was full of a certain joy and exuberance that feels lacking in hip hop today. I asked him why that is.

4 (1m 12s):
I think s just worse like I, think It just worse in terms of public safety. you know, even the weather, like the Earth is not, not as lit as it was in 2013.

3 (1m 26s):
Chancellor Rapper on how hip hop has changed. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast,

5 (1m 36s):
Donald Trump is facing 91 felony charges across four indictments. But one charge in Georgia stands out.

6 (1m 44s):
The RICO case against Donald Trump in Georgia involves 19 defendants. When you have a case involving 19 defendants and the wide range of crimes that they've been charged with committing, it creates all kinds of complications.

5 (2m 1s):
The ins and outs of Rico Cases, And, what this could mean for 2024. This week on the weeds

7 (2m 17s):
Explained 2024, explained.

8 (2m 20s):
Yeah. I'm Eric Wemple. I'm media critic for The Washington. Post.

0 (2m 24s):
How badly did Fox News wanna host the first presidential debate in August? Eric? Oh,

8 (2m 30s):
Fox News, this is central. They want to host the first G O P debate badly, very, very badly. In fact, when Fox News was in the middle of its legal peril, in the Dominion case, it was announced in April, the R N C announced that Fox News would be doing its first debate.

9 (2m 51s):
We are going to host the very first debate with Fox News. It will be a Fox news, Republican primary debate that I'm definitely watching. You're definitely watching. You're gonna have to be there, right? You're probably

8 (3m 1s):
Going, they hadn't at that point, announced the moderators And. it was no coincidence that came at Fox News's greatest moment of legal and PR peril in years. So that is an indication of how seriously, how badly they want to do this. It's a really, really high profile event for them.

0 (3m 19s):
It doesn't seem like a presidential debate, you know, more than a year away from a presidential election is gonna reverse anyone's fortunes. But what's the thinking at Fox News? What is the excitement over this debate actually about?

8 (3m 33s):
Well, I think the excitement is in one part. Ratings. Fox News has struggled a little bit, especially in primetime since Tucker Carlson left after the Dominion settlement. And the other thing is that it's a big news event, and every single clip that gets passed around on the internet and on other TV outlets and so on and so forth, it all comes back to Fox News. So it's an enormous branding opportunity, enormous opportunity to get themselves in legitimate news for a change. Of

0 (4m 5s):
Course, a big bummer for Fox News must be that the former president slash accused felon slash front runner is not showing up.

8 (4m 12s):
It's such a big downer, in fact, that Fox News has deployed all sorts of lobbying resources from its newsroom, including the top executives to, to break bread with Trump and Brett Baer. I understand this is, according to the New York Times, has called Trump directly four or five times to beseech him to participate in this debate, because Trump is such a draw, an obvious draw. The debate will be more lively if he's participating. Why

10 (4m 40s):
Would I let Ada Hutchinson, I call him Maita? 'cause you know, his name's a, but I call him Maida for whatever reason. Why is that he needs, I think he's weak. Okay.

8 (4m 49s):
There'll be more headlines and there'll be more, basically more amperage for Fox news all around if Trump participates. And of course, he's the prohibitive front runner. I mean, I guess in the c n n poll of polls, he's up like 40 points over his next rival. So clearly, you know, when someone is the center of the race to that degree, you want him participating in your debate. And Fox News has gone all out to court him

0 (5m 15s):
If he doesn't show up, because I guess there's still some negligible chance that he will, will people still watch?

8 (5m 23s):
I think people will still watch, you know, already people are tuning into Fox News. It does tend to wall up its competitors in primetime, even though it's sagged a little bit, as I said, since April. But yes, people will tune in it's original programming. you know, it's, it's not contrived. It's not scripted. I think that people still hunger for that sort of exchange. you know, Chris Christie is certainly a theatrical and interesting person on stage. It's a lot of conflict. It's a lot of chatter, it's a lot of rhetoric. And you know, it is the kickoff of the season of this 2024 presidential cycle, and none of the fireworks that happen with Trump will happen without Trump.

8 (6m 5s):
But there'll be some stuff, and of course, they'll all comment on Trump. And that's, I suppose, in some level, the next best thing to having him there anyway.

0 (6m 14s):
So even if he's not there, he's the elephant in the room at the elephant debate.

8 (6m 18s):
Exactly. And he animates the debate. Present or absent. Former

11 (6m 23s):
President Donald Trump is skipping out on the event in favor of an interview with former Fox News host Tucker Carlson. And we're hearing now from two sources familiar with that matter, that the interview has actually already been recorded.

0 (6m 36s):
So how will you toggle between the debate and the piece of counter programming put on by Tucker Carlson, whom I know you're a fan of, and and the former president himself?

8 (6m 48s):
Yeah, you know, I, I wondered about that. I don't have a plan yet. you know, I gotta tape one or the other, I guess, or just hope that there is a recording that I can easily access. But yes, the Tucker Carlson interview with Trump that has been taped and is going to debut in direct competition with the debate is certainly an interesting wrinkle. Obviously, Trump did not want to absent himself from the debate and not offer his fans another way of getting Trump content at the very same time. And Carlson, you know, one of the subplots is that Carlson has a very active interest in undermining Fox news, given that Fox News essentially fired him in April after it wrapped up the Dominion suit.

8 (7m 32s):
They have been slinging mud at each other ever since with Carlson and his people claiming that Fox News fired him as a condition of the Dominion settlement. Fox News and Dominion both have refuted that have denied any such thing, but basically what we're seeing here, And, what is the absolute delicious dynamic here, is that Tucker Carlson is basically tormenting Fox news. And that to me, could not be a greater example of poetic justice in this entire beat. I've been doing it for about 20 years in one way or another, covering media. And this is the most deserved torment cycle that I've ever seen in my life.

0 (8m 11s):
And where is this counterprogramming available?

8 (8m 14s):
He runs video stuff and he just drops it on Twitter, drops it on X,

0 (8m 18s):
And we'll see who comes out the bell of the ball tonight. Yeah,

8 (8m 22s):
I suppose my guess is, of course, all sides will proclaim victory. Of course.

0 (8m 29s):
Has there been, in recent memory, an occasion where the front runner in a presidential election didn't show up to a presidential debate?

8 (8m 38s):
You know, I'm sort of remembering when there was a lot of drama about Trump showing up to a Fox debate. He made a big deal about Megan Kelly. It was all based on that August, 2015 debate when Megan Kelly asked him about his treatment of women.

12 (8m 54s):
You've called women you don't like fat pigs, dogs, slobs, and disgusting animals. Your Twitter account was several, only

10 (9m 3s):
Rosie O'Donnell,

12 (9m 5s):
For the record, it was well beyond Rosie O'Donnell.

8 (9m 8s):
Yes. So he just made a whole circus of it and then blew off that January, 2016 debate And. it was this months long drama just before the Iowa caucuses, whoever

10 (9m 19s):
Even heard of her before the last debate, I'm not a fan of Megan Kelly. I don't like her. She probably doesn't like me, and that's okay.

8 (9m 25s):
It was still a, you know, a headlining event. But that was sort of like an interesting progression because it showed Trump doing what he does now, which was unthinkable at the time, which is a G O P front runner, or near front runner or whatever. Basically dissing Fox news. We hadn't seen that much of that. But Trump, he did something that people hadn't seen before, which was just diss Fox news and trash it.

10 (9m 51s):
They can't toy with me like they toy with everybody else. So let 'em have their debate, and let's see how they do with the ratings,

8 (9m 58s):
You know, and obviously the political system. Well, you may say it's recovered. Some people say it never has. He

0 (10m 6s):
Did go on to, of course, win that election. I believe he lost the one after it. Does a debate in the end actually affect political fortunes anymore?

8 (10m 17s):
I think there's an argument that it does. There's this wisdom going around now that this debate is kind of a donor's debate that all the big money people in the Republican party are gonna be watching to see if someone emerges as a real viable alternative to Trump And. they may wanna put the money behind that person. And I think that the candidates are very cognizant of that. They need to show themselves as viable and presidential and all that sort of stuff. So yes, I do think that there's a relevance to the debates and that there aren't that many opportunities to break through outside of the debate because you know, everybody's on Twitter or X, or everybody's on social media, everybody's on Facebook.

8 (10m 58s):
It really is difficult to pierce the bubble.

0 (11m 5s):
So worth watching to find out who might be running against the foreign president, or who knows who might end up being his vice presidential candidate.

8 (11m 11s):
Yeah, I think that that is a big part of it. I mean, these debates are always tryouts for vice presidential hopefuls. And that's why a lot of them, you wonder like, why isn't he attacking this board? Why isn't she attacking this person? Well, you know, they wanna be on the ticket. So that's one of the great dynamics that you find. And I honestly believe that that's one of the reasons why it's worthwhile and interesting to watch these debate, is that there's so many different currents and dynamics that are going on at one time.

0 (11m 46s):
Eric Wemple read 'em at The Washington Post when we're back on today, explained enough about who's not gonna be there and more about who is.

Vox (12m 6s):
Hey there, it's Noelle from today Explained. Vox is trying to learn more about how and when and where our audience listens. And so they're conducting a focus group to hear directly from Listeners like you, to help us make our shows better. The focus group discussion will only take about an hour, and I'm told you will get a cash gift if you participate. If you're interested, you can go to Vox dot com slash research to apply. Once again, that's Vox dot com slash research. Thanks for doing this.

Vox Media (12m 39s):
Hi, I'm Neli Patel, editor-in-chief of the Verge and host of the Decoder podcast. This September I'm taking over as one of the new hosts of the code conference, alongside CNBC's, Julia Boton and KC Newton from Platformer and Hard Fork. You've heard us all talk to major players in the worlds of tech and business on our shows. But Code has live unfiltered journalism you won't find anywhere else. This year we have onstage interviews with x slash Twitter, C e o, Linda Yao, Microsoft CT O, Kevin Scott, and many more. From AI to streaming platform shifts to privacy. No one knows exactly where we're headed, but code is where the world's most influential people come together to find out. Join us for the start of a new era. Apply to attend the code conference now at Vox media.com/code. That's Vox media.com/code. We'll see you in September.

15 (13m 33s):
Bing binging, binging Bing Bing.

0 (13m 38s):
Today explained is back with Christian Paw, senior politics reporter of Vox dot com, who has written for our website a sort of primer for this debate tonight in Mil Huke Mke Christian, barring major surprises that are going be eight people on the stage. You started with donor favorites, the people who are bringing in the money, who are they?

16 (13m 58s):
So these are Ron DeSantis, the governor of Florida. Oh, what is

17 (14m 2s):
That? Nice. Yeah, that's probably a lot of sugar,

16 (14m 7s):
Huh? And Tim Scott, one of the current senators from South Carolina.

18 (14m 10s):
I'm living proof that America is the land of opportunity.

16 (14m 15s):
I call them the donor favorites because obviously Ron DeSantis is seen as the most credible alternative to Trump right now. And he was the one who was being hyped up the most over the last year, almost right since the midterms when he won his reelection in Florida by pretty big margins. And then Tim Scott, who isn't necessarily polling the highest either, but who, especially in Iowa, right, has been seen as more of a realistic, likable version of DeSantis who you know, hasn't been turning people off, has been steadily rising in the polls and has been consistently raising a lot of money and using it wisely.

18 (14m 58s):
I believe that my optimistic positive message is being rooted in Iowa, and that frankly, our poll numbers continue to go up. That's great news. More importantly, people are showing up at large numbers, and my crowds continue to increase. That's even better news than even Poland.

0 (15m 13s):
Okay, so those are the, the donor faves. Let's talk about the critics of the former president.

16 (15m 19s):
Definitely up until Monday when the Republican National Committee confirmed that there'd be one other person on stage, this was a category of two former Vice President Mike Pence

19 (15m 30s):
On that day. President Trump asked me to put him over the Constitution, but I chose the Constitution and I always will.

16 (15m 37s):
And former New Jersey governor Chris Christie,

20 (15m 39s):
A lonely self-consumed self-serving mirror hog,

16 (15m 44s):
Both of whom had spent four, you know, the last four years in Trump's orbit. Pence as Vice President Christie as a campaign advisor working to get Trump reelected, who both turned into critics of Donald Trump, especially after he refused to admit defeat in the 2020 presidential election. And then tried to do that whole January 6th deal. Now we have a third person in this category, the former governor of Arkansas, ISA Hutchinson, who Trump helped him get reelected in 2018. He was one of the first people who jumped into the race and seriously leaned into an anti-Trump message.

21 (16m 22s):
Do you support the rule of law and accountability, or do you support Donald Trump and support the chaos that he brings? And a disregard for the rule of law?

16 (16m 34s):
And then Chris Christie, you know, he has flip flopped back and forth between opposing and supporting Donald Trump. And right now has chosen to also try to speak truth to the Republican electorate. The Republican electorate doesn't necessarily wanna hear that And. they don't necessarily wanna hear him. And then Isa Hutchinson, who also has very little chances of being the nominee, he just barely qualified. He's still under 1% of support in, you know, across the country. That doesn't really give a lot of reason to believe that he'll be a serious contender for the nomination.

0 (17m 11s):
Let's have some fun. Let's talk about some of these rich guy vanity campaigners. One of them, I think I saw playing tennis shirtless on a clay court on Monday.

16 (17m 24s):
Yeah. And I think you're talking about Vivek Rams Swami, who's the bigger name in this category. This is a category that is two Rams Swami, and then the outgoing governor of North Dakota, Doug Bergham, who also has a personal treasure chest of riches that he can use to run this campaign.

0 (17m 43s):
Editorial note, since we spoke with Christian, poor Doug Bergham injured himself shooting hoops with his staffers and may not appear at tonight's debate. Godspeed Doug. We hardly knew ye,

16 (17m 54s):
We can start with Ramas Swami in terms of just how confounding of a person of a candidate he is. He made his wealth in biotech, and when he joined the campaign field, it didn't really look like he would be a serious voice, but he's seen his star rise as Ron DeSantis star has fallen.

23 (18m 17s):
Governor Ron DeSantis has had his entire career in politics, and that's fine. But I think that the Republican party, I think the country is hungry for an outsider, somebody who has actually accomplished things outside of politics.

16 (18m 28s):
He's in third place in most national polls and in a lot of early state polls. He's also rising quickly. Part of that is because he's been pretty smart about his media exposure, whereas Ron DeSantis early on did not speak to most media outside of conservatives.

0 (18m 45s):
Right? I mean, only one of them has been on today, explained

23 (18m 48s):
It is I I, I empathize with your challenge because it's very different to put me in a box D, difficult to put me in a box.

16 (18m 54s):
Exactly. Exactly. Vivic AMI has been everywhere. He's really been eager to talk to as many folks on as many different media types and platforms, and he is willing to spend money. He said that he's been willing to spend more than a hundred million of his fortune on the race. I think the biggest thing to note here is how he'll likely be attacking Ron DeSantis. I mentioned earlier that folks around Ron DeSantis are concerned about Tim Scott's rise. More recently, the super PAC that's supporting Ron DeSantis has also let leak that they're concerned about Vivek Ramus Swami. There was a New York Times report on the leak of debate prep materials from the superPAC that included recommendations to the candidate Ron DeSantis to take a sledgehammer to Vikk Rams Swami and Ramas Swami really loved that and used that as a, as a further attack on DeSantis.

0 (19m 52s):
Didn't he like totally roast him? What did he say?

16 (19m 54s):
His spokesperson said, if DeSantis struggles to use a spoon, I can't imagine he's particularly agile with a sledgehammer. What

0 (20m 1s):
Is that a reference to?

3 (20m 2s):
And tried to DeSantis Lord is an episode from four years ago during a private plane trip from Tallahassee to Washington, DC in March of 2019. DeSantis enjoyed chocolate pudding dessert by eating it with three of his fingers, according to two sources familiar with the incident.

0 (20m 23s):
That's the most relatable thing I've ever heard about Ron DeSantis

16 (20m 26s):
And the other rich guy on stage. Doug Bergham, he's the billionaire governor of North Dakota. Hardly anyone knows him. And this kind of shows up in the polling.

0 (20m 35s):
Again, Doug might not make it, but we're rooting for him. Let's move on to Nikki Haley.

16 (20m 40s):
Yes, the former governor of South Carolina and the former US Ambassador to the United Nations. Nikki Haley, who at one point not too long ago, seemed like she could be the future of the Republican Party

25 (20m 53s):
For a strong America. For a Proud America. I am running for president of the United States of America,

16 (21m 2s):
Though she's now stuck in a very weird mid-range position among the candidates where she's not in the upper tier of candidates who are being taken very seriously by donors and by voters, but also isn't a nobody or a vanity candidate. She started the campaign with a promise to take on bullies. We were trying to,

25 (21m 22s):
We were whipping y'all's butt. You were, we were within

16 (21m 25s):
Y's butt. But she wouldn't mention Donald Trump. And a lot of her criticisms work just as easily on Joe Biden, who most people you know would assume she's talking about as they would apply to Donald Trump. And so I think one of the big problems with her is that she's gone very far being a political chameleon, somebody who, you know, has a finger on the pulse politically can assume the identity or the trappings of whatever political movement is needed. But then when she comes around to trying to make a declarative statement on policy or on how she's different from other people, there isn't much newness there. And Nikki Haley just seems to be the most obvious example of somebody who used to seem to have a future, and at the moment just kind of seems stuck.

0 (22m 13s):
And lastly, there are a couple people other than that one guy who won't be on the stage.

16 (22m 17s):
Yeah, exactly. And this is why I thought it was important to make the category of donor favorites, because there are two current governors, Glenn Kin of Virginia and Brian Kemp of Georgia, who a lot of the elites within the G O P and a lot of these donors wish would swoop in at the last minute, clear the field, take on Donald Trump, dispatch him, and then win the nomination. Go on to defeat Joe Biden. That remains to be seen.

0 (22m 50s):
Fox News Christian called their own debate in a headline over at Fox news.com. Enormously important. Is this debate gonna be enormously important, or is it Fox news just getting high on its own supply?

16 (23m 9s):
There's definitely an incentive to wanna hype yourself up when you're putting on a party and to, you know, want people to go and want people to watch and wish that they were there. The problem is that Donald Trump isn't there, And. it just doesn't seem likely that any of these folks, unless big, unless here, right? Because we don't know what's gonna happen with these investigations, And, what? We have the indictments. And so there's a chance, right, that something spectacularly bad could happen for Donald Trump and then he isn't able to stay in the race. But that doesn't right now seem likely. And none of these candidates really seem like alternatives to Donald Trump. And I think here again, we see this divide between elites and the people.

16 (23m 53s):
And this is within the G O P that that people are telling all the pollsters, the people are telling reporters, that people are telling anyone who listen, they really like Donald Trump. And that there are enough of these folks that really liked Donald Trump to deny a nomination to anybody else. And as long as that is true, there really isn't an alternative to Trump And. what we can expect is another Trump Biden rematch.

0 (24m 18s):
This is what everyone cries,

16 (24m 23s):
But read us

0 (24m 28s):
Christian Paws, read 'em at Vox dot com. Our program today was produced by Abby Shai Artsy. We were edited by Amina Al Fact, checked by Serena Solin and Amanda Lewellyn, and mixed by David Herman. I'm Sean Ramas firm. The rest of the team here today explained includes Halima Shah, Haie Ma, Wadi Miles, Brian Victoria Chamberlain, SI Petros, Patrick Boyd, and John Aarons. Our managing editor is Matthew Collette. Our executive producer is Miranda Kennedy. My cohost is Noel King. We use music by Breakmaster cylinder sometimes.

0 (25m 8s):
We're distributed on public radio stations by W N Y C all the time. We're part of the Vox Media podcast network since the beginning of our time. And, you can get in touch with us anytime today. Explained at Vox dot com. If you like email today, underscore explained on that platform that doesn't have a name anymore, whatever.