2 (1s):
Ukraine Ukraine a slave

1 (6s):
slave depending on how you count it today is day 7 of President Trump Senate impeachment trial and on day 7 the trial hasn't yet made a boatload of progress as of this morning. They were still trying to get through opening statements. But this week President Trump's former National Security mustache John Bolton waded into the debate in a way that might require that He's called as a witness against his former. Boss President Trump Vox is Andrew Prokop has been glued to the television since this whole thing began. And today he's going to take us through the motions starting with the Stark. Hello. So the Democrats went first, what do they have to say?

1 (47s):
So they took nearly 24 hours over three days to lay out their case. This was not an argument that was filled with new evidence or new Bombshells at least since last week. There was reference to some of the Lev parnas evidence that came out recently. But mostly this was a summary of their findings in the house impeachment inquiry a recap of some of the greatest hits of the testimony that they got there and evidence that they discovered and putting all that together in an overall argument to the Republicans that Trump was very clearly guilty.

1 (1m 30s):
Of abusing his power to pressure Ukraine to investigate the Biden's in part by withholding 8 and white house meeting and also that he obstructed Congress by doing this broad over a refusal to cooperate with the impeachment inquiry at all. Hmm. It's funny. You mentioned Greatest Hits because didn't didn't someone quote Notorious BIG making it the first time that Notorious BIG was quoted in a senate impeachment trial. Yes. I was representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York and we are here sir.

2 (2m 1s):
To follow the facts apply to law be guided by the Constitution and present the truth to the American people. That is why we are here. Mr. Sekulow. And if you don't know now, you know,

1 (2m 20s):
so the Democrats didn't necessarily update very much of their status quo. From what we saw in the house impeachment hearings. Yeah. They think they had a strong case already a spin that they put on it was that there were some gaps in the case and things they didn't know about which they used to argue. This is why you should call witnesses and when this was happening in the house there were tons of Contentious moments are contentious moments that thing in the Senate. So we've gotten fewer heated exchanges in part because the opening arguments are formatted in such a way that the house impeachment managers have 24 hours of senate floor time spread over three days to make their case without being interrupted by any questioning from senators or response from Trump's legal team.

1 (3m 12s):
We did see a testy back and forth on on the first night of the trial which was a rules debate where there was some of that back and forth between Trump's team and the Democrats. This was when representative Jerry Nadler of New York suggested that the Senate would be engaged in a cover-up if they didn't vote to hear Witnesses any senator who votes against Ambassador Bolton's testimony or any relevant testimony shows that he or she wants to be part of the cover-up.

2 (3m 43s):
What other possible reason is there to prohibit a

1 (3m 46s):
relevant witness from

2 (3m 47s):
testifying here? Unfortunately so far I've seen every Republican senator has shown that they want to be part of the cover-up by voting against every document in witness

1 (3m 58s):
proposed and Republican Senators went to reporters afterward and said they were absolutely outraged shocked shocked that anyone would suggest that there was a cover-up going on in this Senate didn't you've Justice John Roberts also reprimand Jerry Nadler for saying that. Yes, so Trump's team gave their own testy response. And then chief justice Roberts spoke up and made what's pretty much been his only direct comment on the trial proceeding so

2 (4m 28s):
far in the 1905 Swain trial a senator objected. When one of the managers use the word pettifogging and the presiding officer said the word ought not to have been used. I don't think we need to Aspire to that highest standard, but I do think those addressing the Senate should remember where they are.

1 (4m 50s):
Cute, so that's kind of how the Democrats opened up. How did they close things out on Friday? So shift gave a long presentation summing up everything they found making the argument for Witnesses calling on Republicans Senators to represent moral courage, and then he referenced a report from CBS news that the White House had supposedly warned Republican Senators that

2 (5m 16s):
voted against your president vote against the president and your Ed will be on a

1 (5m 20s):
pike yikes. This was some rather lurid imagery and the Republican senator said they did not like this one bit. In fact as soon as shift said it Susan Collins of Maine one of the key swing votes of this entire thing yelled out. That's not true several other Republicans groaned way. She yelled that out in the Senate. Yes, even though you are technically not supposed to speak under pain of imprisonment. Isn't she apparently felt so strongly that she reacted in that way? I'm surprised Chief Justice. John Roberts didn't react to that. Well, this is pretty much the Senate's house. So, you know, there are technically a set of rules about that.

1 (6m 3s):
Everyone has to be in their seats that no one has led to speak and those rules have been pretty frequently violated Senators have been chatting with each other getting up moving around going outside to go on TV all that. I think they should be sent to prison and you that's what the rules say. Gotta follow the rules. Okay. So that's the Democrats. How do President Trump's lawyers respond beginning on Saturday? So President Trump himself was not at all happy that the impeachment managers used all three days of their a lot of time. He complained in a tweet that his opening arguments would have to start Saturday, which is Death Valley for TV ratings wise. So what they ended up doing on Saturday was agreeing to a short and session where trumpler Jay Sekulow Whoa called this a trailer for the arguments that Senators would see next week.

1 (6m 54s):
So they did a basic overview pointing out among other things that no Witnesses called by the Democrats had actually testified that Donald Trump himself had personally tied with holding Ukraine Aid to investigations. So then on Monday we had the whole lineup of Trump's defense team. Making their case on the floor of the Senate you had Ken Starr who gave this lengthy presentation. The

2 (7m 26s):
Senate has been called to sit as the high court of impeachment all too frequently. Indeed. We are living in what I think can happily be described as the age of

1 (7m 41s):
impeachment that was a bit confusing. He seemed to be arguing that impeachment was bad and he was sort of an odd messenger for that given his role in Bill Clinton's impeachment. But anyway, you also had Alan dershowitz making a case based on his reading of the

2 (7m 59s):
Constitution. I will argue that our Constitution and its terms High crimes and misdemeanors. Do not Encompass the two articles charging abuse of power and obstruction of Congress

1 (8m 11s):
a lot of impeachment Scholars disagree with him on this and then there was Jane Raskin who we haven't seen too much of but she was one of Trumps lawyers in the Mueller probe working with Rudy Giuliani and continues to represent Trump and she defended Rudy Giuliani on the floor of the Senate. She said that

2 (8m 31s):
the house managers would have you believe that mr. Giuliani, is that the Center of this controversy, they've anointed him the proxy villain of the tail the leader of a rogue operation their presentations were filled with ad hominem attacks and name-calling cold-blooded political operative political bagman. But I suggest to you that he's front and center in their narrative for one reason and one reason alone to distract from the fact that the evidence does not support their claims.

1 (9m 4s):
And then there was also the former Attorney General of Florida Pam Bondi who used her section of time to argue that the Biden's and their connection to the Natural Gas Company Purisima really were corrupt and worthy of Investigation hundred.

2 (9m 23s):
His decision to join Bruce mama raised Flags almost immediately. One article from May 2014 stated the appointment of Joe Biden son to the board of Ukrainian gas firm. Purisima has raised eyebrows the world over.

1 (9m 43s):
So how did Trump do anything wrong? If all he wanted was people to investigate corruption and we should mention that there is no evidence that Joe Biden did anything wrong or corrupt in the firing of a Cranium prosecutor that's at the center of this. Hmm. Was this basically what you expected? Yeah, it's pretty much what we would have expected Trump's legal team has been surprisingly restrained. I would say I think they are tailoring their arguments to the Republican Senators on the fence. They're not putting on as wild of a show as the president himself might like to see but yeah, you know, there are obviously elements of sniping and And and nastiness, but it's been over all relatively sober proceeding so far.

1 (10m 38s):
One point that Trump's legal team did keep coming back to was that no witness called by democrats had ever testified that they heard or saw Donald Trump personally link the blocking of military aid to Ukraine to his demand for investigations. But all of that could change if a certain someone shows up. Yes, the problem with that argument is that we got news that there is a very well known high-profile potential witness who very much wants to testify before the Senate who would say just that that he and a conversation with Trump saw Trump link the aid to Ukraine to investigations.

1 (11m 24s):
And that would be former National Security adviser John Bolton more with Andrew and John and Sean in the minute on today explained. Hey everyone, so I know you know all about Vox podcast because I talk about him all the time you listen to one right now. I know you know about boxes Netflix show explain but Vox is also just getting into the regular like narrative TV game right now. You can find a show called Little America on Apple TV plus only in America Dia odd tax

2 (12m 7s):
after you see the ticket Place only in America can such a perfect game exist Face Forward hamburgers Cheeseburgers bacon chili cheeseburger everything on top of everything only in America. But in America comes from the people who brought you the big sick and master of none. It tells 8 extraordinary true stories of immigrants coming to America people from Syria. Uganda Mexico Nigeria. These

1 (12m 41s):
stories are funny romantic their heartfelt and inspiring

2 (12m 46s):
and who couldn't use a little bit of that right now Little America is live. Now, you can find it on the Apple TV app

1 (12m 52s):
or go straight to T V Dot a

2 (12m 55s):
Dot-com the show is called Little America

1 (12m 60s):
8 episodes check them out

2 (13m 1s):
now. Hey, it is Ezra Klein. And I want to tell you about an exciting episode because

1 (13m 10s):
reclined show you can listen to now and episode literally years in the making it is a special excerpt of my new book. Why were polarized which is coming out on Tuesday, January 28th, the book explores the structural and psychological Dimensions behind the way American politics is changed and polarized what it has done to our institutions, but importantly what it is doing to us. So I hope you enjoy it and you can listen to it by subscribing to the Ezra Klein show right now for free in your favorite podcast app it to hear a special excerpt from

2 (13m 36s):
the

1 (13m 36s):
look Okay, and you remind me how John Bolton became the former National Security adviser? Why did he and President Trump break up again? We all remember John Bolton Republican National Security stalwart superhawk loves aggressive military action all over the world and Trump brought him into the administration in March 2018 as National Security adviser, but they ended up clashing in that role. He was very unhappy. With Trump's relatively less interventionist instincts on Syria policy on Afghanistan policy.

1 (14m 22s):
And he also turns out had a bit of a problem with Trump's effort to block 391 million dollars in military aid to Ukraine so due to some combination of all this they had a falling out and Bolton depending on who you ask either resigned or was fired in early. September which happened to be just as this Ukraine Scandal was breaking. So this sort of will he or won't he question around John Bolton has been looming for months, right? Yes. Bolton has very clearly been a key witness who obviously had important information about Trump's conduct with regards to Ukraine another witness who was on the National Security Council staff, Fiona Hill.

1 (15m 14s):
Testified

2 (15m 15s):
that I'm busted a Bolton wanted me to go to the lawyer's to John Eisenberg. I was senior counsel for the National Security Council to basically say you tell Eisenberg Ambassador Bolton told me that I am not part of the this whatever drug deal that Mulvaney and Sunderland are cooking up

1 (15m 32s):
and they're built in referred to Rudy Giuliani as a live grenade who is going to blow everybody up. Yeah, so he was clearly against this. We also heard some testimony from another former National Security Council Aid Tim Morrison who said that Bolton had met privately with Trump on the issue of Ukraine Aid. So the house asked Bolton to show up for a voluntary deposition and he refused there was this court challenge going on regarding another one of his aides who was fighting a subpoena in Court Bolton said he wanted to see how that lawsuit played out before agreeing to testify but It he announced earlier this month that if the Senate subpoenas him, he will testify he will not fight it in court and this was a pretty big surprise in Washington and was taken as a suggestion that he very much wants to tell his story why the sudden change of mustache perhaps not coincidentally.

1 (16m 38s):
He has been writing a book as well which tells his story and that book is Now seems to be finished and will be coming out soon and is leaking out to members of the press. Yes, so would really change things was on Sunday night. When the New York Times reported on the contents of Bolton's manuscript. And so this is our first account of Bolton side of the

2 (17m 4s):
story and what are reporting showed is that it takes on the central defense of the Trump impeachment. The president's lawyers have repeatedly said

1 (17m 15s):
That

2 (17m 15s):
there was no tie between the military aid and the investigations that the president

1 (17m 21s):
song and what he said was that he had a meeting with Trump in August where he urged Trump to lift the hold on military aid for Ukraine and Trump said he didn't want to do that until Ukraine handed over material. They had related to investigations into the Biden's and investigations of supporters of Hillary Clinton who supposedly in Trump's view had something to do with the Russia investigation at the deviled ham for so long. So this is a big deal because no other witness called by democrats as Trump's team pointed out said they heard this from Trump's own mouth directly and it would take away one of the key elements of Trump's defense, which is a defense that his attorneys continue to make in the Senate right now in this trial.

1 (18m 12s):
Yes the day after the Bolton news came out Jay Sekulow went to the floor of the Senate and repeated the assertion that

2 (18m 22s):
not a single witness testified that the president himself said that there was any connection between any investigation and security assistance a presidential meeting or anything else

1 (18m 33s):
which basically seems to be thumbing his nose at the Senate and almost daring them to call the person who we now know see seems to be willing to testify the exact opposite. The timing of this manuscript being leaked and even this book being written is kind of incredible, right? Yeah. So Bolton wrote this remarkably quickly. He struck the deal in November. There's been some speculation that he was even writing this book while he is working as National Security advisor, in any case the Bolton PR team quickly responded to the New York Times Story by posting the Amazon page for Bolton's book which they continually mention in statements about it is called the room where it happened a reference to Hamilton and emphasizing that it will be on sale this March so, you know, there's been a lot of speculation that all Bolton really cares about is hyping up his book and making a ton of money from it.

1 (19m 46s):
So that's the onion for their headline Bolton pledges to donate all proceeds. He's from book towards killing Iranians. It's pretty dark. Yeah, sorry, but it was interesting that somehow or other information about this book made its way to the New York Times just as the Senate is about to decide on this crucial question of whether to call witnesses for the trial and the leak makes it indisputable clear that Bolton has very relevant information. That would be very important to the case and that it would certainly seem that. I had a body holding a trial over this would want to get his sworn testimony about this.

1 (20m 27s):
So how is all the Trump Machinery responding to this President Trump himself his Pals over at Fox News who heretofore have love John Bolton though former Fox news commentator. John bolt exact it is so Trump tweeted late Sunday night. I never told John Bolton that the aid to Ukraine was tied to investigations into Democrats including the Biden's in fact, he never complained about this at the time. Of his very public termination if John Bolton Said this it was only to sell a book. I believe Lou Dobbs on Fox Business put up various slides showing Bolton had the same agents for his book as Comey did so, you know Bolton Comey, they're all working together against Trump and trying to smear him in the press and blah blah blah.

2 (21m 17s):
John Bolton himself has been reduced to a tool for the Article Dems and the Deep state with his allegation that the president once told him that the aid to the Ukraine was entirely dependent on whether or not mr. Zielinski carried out investigations of his political

1 (21m 35s):
opponents, but we've seen in the larger conservative World. We've seen an interesting divided between commentators and Outlets who have been calling Bolton a liar calling him even a warmonger and then others Who based on their long association with and knowledge of John Bolton who say that? Well, you know, he probably wouldn't be lying about this.

2 (21m 60s):
If you want a sense of how big the news is that we've heard in the last 12 hours 14 hours. Just listen to the Trump supporters spitting like crazy that it isn't big news and you get a sense that this is really an important development in this

1 (22m 15s):
case several commentators from National Review spoke out on Mondays. Think that you know, they take Bolton's account seriously and they think it's important and they want to hear it. They're not going to accept a dismissal of Bolton as just part of the deep state anti-trump conspiracy. It's kind of incredible to think that John Bolton could be viewed as a tool for the left considering his history with the left and his disdain for the left. Well, if you go against the dear leader, you will have to be turned into Public Enemy Number One. So where does this leave the Senate trial is Bolton all but sure to show up now with these Revelations that contradicts so many of the arguments that the president's defense team is making Well that is up to the Republican Senate majority and this question about Witnesses.

1 (23m 12s):
They put it off when the trial began because there was a small but still big enough group of Republican Senators who were not prepared to immediately say there should be no Witnesses. They wanted to keep the option open as the trial went forward and before the Bolton news broke. It seemed that they weren't making Much progress, but then Bolton's news change the Dynamics a bit and there was definitely some chaos behind the scenes in the Senate on Monday Mitt Romney publicly Proclaim that I think it's increasingly

2 (23m 51s):
likely that other Republicans will will join those of us who think we should hear from John Bolton and whether there are other Witnesses and documents were that's another matter, but I think John Bolton's relevance to our decision has been come as become increasing. Do you think the manager they indicated that to you? I'm not going to speak for any other Republican Senators, but they have should I compensation I have spoken with others who've a pint of on this as well.

1 (24m 16s):
He thinks his case has gotten stronger. He made the case in private two Republican Senators at their lunch. You had some names. We haven't really heard before in this discussion Like Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania brought up the possibility of doing a one-for-one trade where Democrats would get to call. Witness and Trump would get to call one witness in that case who would call John Bolton the Democrats? Yes. Incredible. Yes. I thank you very much does want to testify he could have just kept quiet throughout this whole thing, but in early January he gave that public statement saying that he would testify if the Senate subpoenaed him and if the votes do end up being there to call witnesses, I think McConnell would put a lot of pressure on Trump.

1 (25m 4s):
To just rip off the Band-Aid let Bolton testify they're nowhere close to the two-thirds vote in the Senate that would be needed to remove him from office. So what's the worst that could happen? So even if John Bolton rolls into the Senate let's say I don't know next week and says there was a quid pro quo. I was in the room where it happened. You still think President Trump's going to be acquitted. Absolutely Republicans have made their peace with defending Trump at this point. Trump continues to remain overwhelmingly popular with Republican voters. So Republican Senators see their future careers and the gop's performance in 2020 as yoked to Donald Trump and they're not going to rock that boat so much for the legitimacy of the trial who says it has any

2 (25m 54s):
legitimacy question was asked. By mr. Sekulow as he opened before this distinguish, but why why why are we here? Let me see if I can just posit an answer to that question. We are here sir, because President Trump pressured a foreign government to Target an American citizen for political and personal gain. We are here sir, because President Trump solicited foreign interference in the 2020 election and corrupted our democracy.

2 (26m 34s):
We are here sir, because President Trump withheld 391 million dollars in military aid from Vulnerable Ukraine without justification and a manner that has been deemed unlawful. We are here sir. Because President Donald Trump elevated his personal political interest and subordinated the National Security interest of the United States of America. We are here sir, because president brought corruptly abuse his power and then he tried To cover it up and we are here sir to follow the facts apply to law be guided by the Constitution and present the truth to the American people the truth to the American people.

2 (27m 32s):
That is why we are here mr. Sekulow and if you don't know now, you know.

1 (27m 41s):
Goodbye.