4 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from the their gun because you know, whether you're an athlete or someone who works at a grocery store or someone who used to work in an office, but now works from your couch. You probably got some muscle tension and the Thera gun has a risk free 30-day trial right now for its tarragon Gen4 with its OLED screen personalized are gonna happen the quiet power that's going to solve your muscle tension problems starting at only $199. Bob go to faragonda cam explain right now. And get your Jen for their gun today, that's their gun.com explained. This episode is brought to you by Amazon music HD you clearly like to listen to Great podcasts.

4 (43s):
You probably have great taste in music too. But are you still streaming your favorite songs and compressed low quality. Audio Amazon music HD is a high-def music streaming service that lets you. Listen to the best music in the best possible quality. Hi, I'm Isaac and I'm a music. Audio producer join me a little later in the show as I explore why I love music with the help of Neuroscience and Amazon music HD start your 90 day free trial and hear the difference today at amazon.com music HD for news automatically new subscribers only limited time offer terms of fly.

4 (1m 34s):
Amy Coney Barrett's appearing before the Senate this week for confirmation hearings and it's all but sure. She'll be confirmed more of a question of when then if at this point, but her inevitable confirmation and the Republicans about-face on confirming the Supreme Court justice. So close to an election has some Democrats seriously considering measures outside. Conventional political Norms in this country, we've talked about one packing the Supreme Court, but there's another you probably heard about ending the filibuster. I will speak until I can no longer speak. This is from a senator Rand Paul filibuster back in 2013.

4 (2m 16s):
But are you going to just drop on a drone Hellfire missile on Jane Fonda? He spoke for 12 hours straight and I wouldn't go for another 12 hours. Hours to try to break Strom thurmond's record, but I've discovered that there are some limits to filibustering and I'm going to have to go take care of one of those in a few minutes here. The filibuster has sort of this Mythic reputation. But Ezra Klein recently argued that it's more of an impediment to democracy than a sacred tool azra for those who aren't really familiar with it. What exactly is the filibuster? You know, that's actually a harder question that you might imagine.

4 (2m 59s):
The right to talk your head off the American privilege of free speech in its most dramatic form. I think what people think of when they hear the word filibuster is alone Senator or a group of senators talking holding the floor debating. I rise today to begin to filibuster John Brennan's nomination for the CIA Madam president. I intend to speak in opposition to Obamacare until I am no longer able to stand. I mean this was But it happened in. Mr. Smith Goes to Washington and Jimmy Stewart gave like a rollicking filibustered. I had some pretty good coaching last night. And I find that if I you only for a question or a point of order or personal privilege that I can hold this for a wholesome so doomsday, but what's happened in recent years is a filibuster has moved from being a Pakistan to Simply procedural maneuver.

4 (3m 58s):
Nobody talks. Nobody debates. You don't see anything happening on the floor. If you turn to C-SPAN 2 there's no like old filibuster of your the modern. Is I would Define it is simply the fact that virtually everything the US Senate does require 60 votes to pass and not 51 which takes away some of the magic, you know, there was a time when the Senate was a magical enchanted place but not anymore. Where did this thing come from? What was the sort of vision for this political tool when it was instituted so there is no vision for it at all. It was a complete accident. What happens is it very early in the Senate's history.

4 (4m 41s):
There is a speech given by then Vice President Aaron Burr and you may remember Aaron Burr He's the bad guy and Hamilton. He had killed Alexander Hamilton in the duel when this story takes place and he's giving his farewell speech to the US Senate and Burr is not always a great speaker gives amazing speech in which he really talks about the Senate as at the Citadel of Liberty. This house is a sanctuary a citadel of law. Of order and of Liberty and it is here if anywhere will resistance be made to the storms of political frenzy and the silent Arts of corruption and he brings many senators to tears but along the way he says look you've got this robot that's full of rules.

4 (5m 23s):
You don't actually use and if you're going to be as great institution as you can be then you gotta get rid of these redundant rules. One of the rules to get rid of Israel called the previous question motion. It basically just gives you a way to move off of the previous question with about they get rid of it because it's never used. So the assumption is if we don't use it, we obviously don't need it. So let's get rid of it and it takes literally decades until anybody realizes that now there is no way to move from one topic to another if some group of senators or some Senator doesn't want you to hmm, so As people begin to see that opportunity that's for the filibuster comes from the first filibuster in history is done.

4 (6m 7s):
It is a fight on a printing contract. So early on in its history is a little a little weird but slowly becomes as important part of the Senate's self-conception and itself mythology. Now really important thing to know is that a traditionally there's no way to end a filibuster at all. If 99 Senators vote to end a filibuster you can't do it because there's no mechanism with which to do that Senators can talk all day and there's nothing you can do to stop it. Yes, but here's the thing. There is a very heavy level of restraint and how it is used. It is in fact Center to speechifying for hours and days on end, but the minority almost never uses it to actually kill anything.

4 (6m 49s):
The majority wants to do the filibuster is understood as a way to make sure you Heard make sure you can make your points make sure you can make passing this bill painful for the majority, but it is not used to kill legislation and it's a really important point. So that brings us to 1917 and people are always trying to stop me from talking about 1917. But I just I love it. I'm more of a marriage story guy myself 1917 a group of senators filibusters a bill that would begin to involve Us in World War one functional. It has to do with German submarines and arming Merchant ships and so on. On so they actually use a filibuster to kill that bill President Woodrow Wilson former political scientist says this is ridiculous.

4 (7m 31s):
The Senate of the United States is the only legislative body in the world, which cannot act when it's majority is ready for action a little group of wilful men representing no opinion, but their own have rendered the great government of the United States helpless and contemptible. We need a way to end filibusters and that leads to the creation with now called the cloture rule. And the cloture rule gives a super majority of the capacity to end a filibuster at that point. You needed a two-thirds supermajority of the Senate now you need as a 1975 a 3/5 supermajority. So that is a brief is to 60 votes. And what point does it become sort of this quirky device that has a sort of reputation for hijinks.

4 (8m 16s):
I wouldn't call it hijinks or quirky because I think the story is actually much more sinister. So what happens is functionally in the 20th century the filibuster moves from being a tool of individual senators or small groups who come together on an ad hoc basis to oppose something that really don't like to a tool of a particular group of senators. And that's the southern block problem revolt against President Truman reaches its climax at Birmingham under the state's rights Banner. So in the 20th century, you have this very big faction of the democratic party called the Dixiecrats. These are southern Democrats that they range from being quite conservative. To quite liberal but where they all are together is on maintaining white supremacy and segregation and white violence in the American South and so the filibuster in this period is routinely and consistently used to block anti-lynching bills civil rights bills voting bills.

4 (9m 12s):
It isn't used to kill almost anything else but it is used to kill anything that is pushing towards racial equality. And if you look at the most famous filibusters in American history, they're all on this topic. So the longest filibuster too. This day is Strom. Thurmond's filibuster. It's over 24 hours. And so he prepared himself in terms of his diet did not hydrate a lot had malted milk to kind of give him some energy and spoke for 24 hours and 18 minutes in August of nineteen fifty-seven. So the filibuster becomes a tool of an organized group then but you still have as we talked about on the show before depolarize party. So it's still a couple decades before it becomes an organized to love parties, which is sort of its An Incarnation the Senate now runs completely differently.

4 (9m 57s):
It runs on the 60-vote threshold constant filibustering constant slow down and it's really nothing like the Senate of your you just didn't have these thresholds. These kinds of tactics being employed and consistent way for most of American History. Hmm. So all told throughout this sort of long and complicated history of the filibuster how has the current iteration of this? Political tool diverged from whatever origin it had the Senate just didn't used to be a 60-vote institution and when it becomes a 60-vote institution particular in an era of closely divided politics, it becomes non-functional.

4 (10m 44s):
I'll give you a good example this there is a memo that somebody sent me once that comes from right after the 1964 election and it's talking about the Medicare Bill and it says that if all of the new senators are here and present and accounted for the Medicare bill pass with 55 votes now think about that something as big as Medicare right Single Payer Health insurance for the elderly passing and there's no filibuster. It and none happens. That's how things used to work used to pass. Most things again. Waste was the big exception here in the 20th century. But aside from that most things passed with a majority if you had 51 votes you could pass Bill and now you can't which means you really can't pass anything.

4 (11m 32s):
The fundamental question of the filibuster and I cannot emphasize this point enough is do we fear the problems of governing or the problems of paralysis more Are we more afraid of what will happen if our side can govern but also when they win the other side can govern or do we prefer this idea that basically nobody can government nobody is able to run on agenda convince the American people that it agenda get elected on that agenda then. Or that agenda and then get judged by the American people on that agenda instead. Everything is an endless debate over why nothing happened and so the voters keep voting people into office who promised him solutions to their problems and then don't deliver.

4 (12m 12s):
It's unbelievably frustrating. It's unbelievably disillusion 8 more with Ezra and a minute. Support for the show today comes from the quip electric toothbrush. Remember when you were a kid and you brushed your teeth all by yourself like a big boy or girl and your parents like congratulated you they were proud of you and you felt like you accomplished something. Do you miss that Sensation that feeling well, you can get it back with the quips new smart electric toothbrush.

4 (12m 58s):
The one that uses Bluetooth to hook up with your clip app and track how often and how well you brush it will Give you tips and coaching to turn you into an elite toothbrush ER and as I said, you can earn points for daily brushing and bonus points for acing occasional challenges racking up enough points. Hopefully to redeem them for free products gift cards and great discounts join the five million mouths already rocking the quip and start getting rewards for brushing your teeth people today go to get clipped.com explained right now and you get your first first refill for free that is your first refill for free at get clipped.com explained GT Q UI p.com explained quip better oral health made simple and rewarding This is Advertiser content.

4 (13m 56s):
What's your favorite song this week? Hi, I'm Isaac Kaplan Wallner a music obsessed producer for Vox creative. I know that I love music deeply but I'm not exactly sure why so with the help of Amazon music HD. I tried to find out music feels like you're entering a different realm and that's that the realm Beyond you that's Jessica Dobson guitarist and lead singer of Seattle band deep sea Ivor and it matters to me because I know that it affects people in ways that I couldn't imagine there are places in our hearts that other things can't access and I know that music can do that music can reliably put us into a mood On a par with certain Drugs That's neuro scientist and musician Daniel J.

4 (14m 47s):
Levitin author of this is your brain on music fast music. Tends to Goose the adrenaline system slow music tends to do the opposite happy music can release dopamine and serotonin. We can see distinct neurochemical changes in response to different kinds of music. So music isn't just something we love it's a central part of who we are and it can help us feel better and do better in our daily lives step up to uncompressed Pure music that allows us to hear and feel more with Amazon music HD start. 90 day free trial and hear the difference today at amazon.com music HD renews automatically new subscribers only limited time offer terms apply.

4 (15m 42s):
Ezra it sounds like there's lots of reasons to get rid of the filibuster. It was an accident to begin with it's not being used as it originally was are there any people out there arguing that they should keep this thing around? Yes, if you're hearing me and you think the only thing that's out there are Arguments for getting me the filibuster. No most Senators tend to want to keep it the important thing for our Democratic friends remember is that you might not be in total control and the future and anytime you start fiddling around with the rules of the Senate. I think you always need to put yourself in the other fellow shoes and just imagine what might happen when the wind shift and and their bunch of arguments.

4 (16m 23s):
Some of them make sense on them. Don't I did a big piece for Vox going through virtually every one of them, but I'll go through a couple of very basic ones. The single biggest one you'll hear is the filibuster encourages compromise and the logic of that is very straightforward. If you need 60 votes to pass anything then of course you're going to need votes. Other side to pass anything and that means you're going to need to compromise with them. Now one answer to this is look around. We have more filibusters in ever and let's compromise and ever so how's that actually working out for you? But there's a reason that this Theory doesn't actually work in practice and that's that the minority understands and particularly under Mitch McConnell's understood that compromise isn't something the majority gives to the minority.

4 (17m 7s):
It's something of the minority gives the majority and that it is often against their political self-interest. Interest to do so say you work in an office and you hate your boss terrible guy your boss and you hate what your boss does you think is projects are bad. You really disagree with him. And in order for your boss to do anything. He needs your help. And if you help him he gets a promotion and you may lose your job. But if you don't help them he may lose his job. And you may become the boss. We help them is the trick that is how American politics actually works at is the actual rules. We have set up it is Crazy, but so it doesn't encourage compromise what it encourages at this point in the age of very very polarized parties is for the minority to sabotage.

4 (17m 50s):
The majority's ability to govern that is what it does. But is there a counter argument that if our politics were less polarized the filibuster could be a critical tool? Yes, and if I had wings I can fly this argument gets made it gets made a lot. You know, it's not the filibuster. That is a problem. Look it's worked at other times. It's hyper partisanship. That is a problem and they say You know like the logic of getting rid of the filibuster because it's being misused is like saying we should get rid of automobiles because some people drive recklessly well fair enough, but I think the actual analogy here is if you told me that every member of the Senate was going to be drunk for the foreseeable future. I would tell you not to let them Drive hyper-partisanship is the rule of the day.

4 (18m 33s):
Nobody has a way of undoing it. It's not going away at some point in the future. We might be in a different political situation and then Should change the rules to fit that situation but having rules built for an era of non polarized parties of very bipartisan politics in an era of hyperpolarized parties and very partisan politics is a mismatch that is killing our ability to govern its make it impossible for us to do anything on climate change on gun control on a million issues that are unbelievably important not just to the future of the American people but to the world and so yes, it would be nice. Nice if American politics work more smoothly but as Jane, I think it's James Madison who said, you know, if men were angels we have no use for government.

4 (19m 19s):
Hmm. We do not need these rules if these rules are not needed but the issue is in the reality of how American politics works right now. The filibuster is a tool of minorities sabotage and I want to say because I keep using minority, but I want to be very clear because sometimes people say the important thing about the filibuster is it protects minority? And it drives me fucking crazy. I think it is appropriate at this point for me to admonish both the house managers and the president's Council in equal terms to remember that they are addressing the world's greatest deliberative body. Its members avoid speaking in a manner and using language that is not conducive to civil discourse when I see minority here.

4 (20m 8s):
I mean the US Senate minority right the minority. Artie but the filibuster is endlessly been a tool through which the white majority tramples racial minority rights and it is happening not just in the 20th century and civil rights bills. But today the reason DC is not going to get offered statehood is the filibuster and so you have a mostly black and brown city of 700,000 people that is bigger than some states the deserves representation in Congress. Just like every other American resident does and will not get it because of the filibuster because the Republican An overwhelmingly white party believes in VDC got statehood, it would vote against Republican party and put in Democratic senators and the Same by the way from Puerto Rico and this is drawing a bunch of issues y HR 1 or any Bill like it that would re-establish the Voting Rights Act and make America more of a democracy where you cannot borrow people from voting as easily and where people more assurance that their vote will actually be counted.

4 (21m 7s):
Why won't it pass because it will be filibustered. And so black and brown voters in particular the not only are going to see their right to vote degraded. It's why Brock Obama at John Lewis's memorial service said if you want to honor John Lewis, you pass the bills and Yuri empower the bills he fought and bled for and if all this takes eliminating the filibuster, Another Jim Crow Relic in order to secure the god-given rights of every American then that's what we should do. It feels like we're talking about this more than we ever have before this idea of getting rid of the filibuster is more plausible now than it's been in at least decades will the Democrats definitely do it.

4 (21m 55s):
If they win enough seats in the Senate. They definitely will not definitely do it definitely will not definitely do it. The odds are that they won't do it, but they are thinking about it in a way. I've never seen them consider before it's very telling that Joe Biden when asked if he would get rid of the filibuster Or disavow getting rid of the filibuster in the first presidential debate refuse to answer the question of her position. I taken that that'll become the issue. The issue is the American people should speak. You should go out and vote. I asked Joe Biden's question on a call not long ago, and he said it depends on how obstreperous the Republicans are. The reason we are talking about it much more is that in the Obama era Mitch McConnell proved to Senate Democrats that the old ways of legislating were dead.

4 (22m 39s):
They came into that period hoping and they could reinvigorate like the bipartisan governance of the 1980s and to some degree early 1990s and Mitch McConnell prove to them. They were wrong and he did this on hundred pieces of legislation and then Merrick Garland and now with Bader Ginsburg or a makoni Barrett to name the nominee have shown that to Democrats even more and so in a world where the Republican party is not going to be a governing partner for them. It will just try it will use all the power it has to do anything it wants when it In the majority, but it will use all the power and has in minority to keep them across from governing when they're in the majority. They're recognizing that if they're going to accomplish anything that they have promised.

4 (23m 21s):
They're gonna have to get rid of the filibuster now their number Democrats. He still don't want to do it and they may not do it but they are closer to doing it than they ever have been before. What do you think our politics looks like in this hyperpolarized moment under a President Joe Biden or a President Donald Trump without the filibuster if you assume That either party in that scenario has full control government. What if permits is it? We move from it being functionally impossible to govern even in those rare circumstances where one party has enough power to govern to it being possible to govern reasonably ambitiously. And so that creates a possibility for the feedback loop in American politics become much more straightforward.

4 (24m 5s):
The public votes in a party the party does what they promised for what they think is the right thing to do the public judges the results of that legislating and then they decide whether or not to return that party to power and it is a hundred percent true that in the absence of a filibuster the parties will be able to do more and that means the party you don't like will be able to do more but that also means that if you think the things you have already wants to do are unpopular in the American people with a like them then they will be punished for that. So it is not that you end up in some Utopia of American politics. Most of the time governing will be very very hard. And even in those rare occasions when one party has the power to govern you may get things you really don't like but like that's democracy or some version of democracy at least and it at least gives us the chance to govern in the end.

4 (24m 56s):
I'm not telling you that like my reforms here are utopian and the others are dystopian. I am telling you that I prefer the problems and opportunities of Furnance to the problems and opportunities of paralysis and I think you should too. Ezra Klein is editor-at-large at vox.com where you can find his piece on the filibuster. It's titled the definitive case for ending the filibuster. I'm Sean Rama's from this is today explained.

4 (25m 49s):
I'm Julia for line and I'm the host of a new series called go For Broke. It's about those moments in history. When everyone goes a little bit overboard for a big idea in our first season. We're going back in time to the late 90s. It's a time when computers are coming into every home. And.com companies are popping up everywhere. Everybody wanted to stick.com on the end of something cups.com glass is not calm, you know shoes.com pet. Dot-com and as the frenzy grows and grows all of a sudden the.com economy falls off a cliff people lost their houses people got their cars recalled. They literally Bank their Futures on it.

4 (26m 32s):
This season will explore what made the.com bubble and what could warn us when the next one comes along if we're not in one already go For Broke from epic and the VOX media podcast Network subscribe for free on Apple. Will podcasts or your favorite podcast app?