1 (5s):
It's the last day of April 20 20. We did it. Although April's not going to quietly in the District of Columbia lots of showers today. I'm Sean rhombus room and this is your coronavirus update from today explained South Korea has reported. No new coronavirus cases for the first time in 10 weeks. No word on how North Korea is doing or even where it's leader is much more on that in today's show. Russia's prime minister says, he has covid-19 Mikhail V masseuse didn't announce the Use on a video conference call with the Russian President Putin downplayed covid-19 risks early on but it's taken it seriously now that it's quickly spreading through the country another 3.8 million American workers filed for unemployment last week which brings the six-week total to over 30 million.

1 (53s):
That's just under 10 percent of the country that's unemployed. It's a historic number. It's also probably an undercount the Brad Pitt of the coronavirus task force. Dr. Anthony fauci says it's doable. Able to have millions of doses of a covid-19 vaccine available by January. He didn't offer a lot of details but there's been a fair amount of reporting on how to accelerate the vaccine approval process. We even did some on this show a few weeks back Los Angeles. Mayor Eric Garcetti says that all LA County residents can now get tested for Coronavirus whether or not they have symptoms plus the weather's nice. They got beaches, but now not all of them will be open anymore after pictures this Last weekend of packed beaches during a heat wave caused an outcry California governor Gavin Newsom decided state of shut them down in Orange County.

1 (1m 44s):
Just south of Los Angeles starting Friday federal guidelines on social distancing are set to expire tonight. President Trump has shown no interest in extending them. Even though his own Public Health experts are urging Extreme Caution to States relaxing their stay at home orders this daily coronavirus update we've been doing on today explain is also expire Ring tonight at midnight. We're going to retire it. But hope it's been useful to you. Will of course still be making plenty of episodes about this pandemic on the show and you can get the latest on the coronavirus at box.com at your convenience. And you can keep in touch via email where today explain that vox.com and we're on Twitter at today underscore explained.

1 (2m 24s):
I'm a trauma sperm. Thanks. Support for the show today comes from rise rise.com is a place where you can find an all-in-one system that makes online training easy to create enjoyable to take and simple to manage. You can create training from scratch or customized hundreds of pre-built lesson templates and Sample courses to build trainings even faster. So go to rise.com and start a 30-day trial right now and see what you love. About training at rise.

1 (3m 22s):
Alex Ward defense Vox co-host of our worldly podcast. Let's not waste anyone's time is Kim Jong Hoon dead. We don't know but my best guess is that he's not. Why does TMZ think he's dead. They think everyone's dead whore too soon too soon. I will say that TMZ does have a pretty Immaculate track record of knowing when celebrities have passed but I just don't think they have the Deep inside scoop on North Korea. Why does anyone think he's dead? We haven't seen him for a really long time. Like how long since April 11th. That's a really long time. That's not even a month. Maybe he's worried about the coronavirus. Like I haven't been seen in a long time. I've been in the closet for a month and a half.

1 (4m 2s):
But at least we hear your voice like imagine if Trump wasn't on TV for two weeks. The country would be in a better place fine, but you'd probably think there was something wrong baby. So same goes for North Korea. This is a guy who's usually on the front cover of propaganda Outlets who's always out there trying to show himself as the leader of the country, but the fact that he's gone and we don't know anything about him or his whereabouts or his well-being rumors start to run rampant. Breaking news tonight. It is out of North Korea and it's a serious question about the health of Kim Jong Hoon following recent surgery several us officials. Tell NBC News American intelligence reporting indicates. Kim recently had cardiovascular surgery with some officials saying the intelligence suggests.

1 (4m 48s):
He's incapacitated is he gone gone is he not on TV? Not on, you know state-controlled radio not on social media nothing. We've got no photos of him. No tick-tocks. Him no tweets. We've got no pictures on state media. We've got no, you know selfies we've got nothing. All we have is satellite imagery that makes us think we know where he is, but we haven't seen him even after a missile test which happened on April 14th. What usually happens is a missile test happens and then the next day where there are pictures of him sort of smiling at the test. And you know, he was there with generals none of that only adding fuel to the fire of maybe there's something physically wrong with Kim Jong-un.

1 (5m 29s):
the moment But a couple of caveats here the first caveat is it is near impossible to know? How Kim is doing North Korea is an extremely hard intelligence Target. You know Kim's Health. It would be one of the state's most guarded Secrets came when he travels takes a toilet with him. So when he defecates his team can remove it because they don't want a foreign intelligence service to take the DNA and sort of see how he's doing. Really? Yeah. The other caveat here is we've seen Kim disappear before in fact he was gone for about five weeks. 2014 5 weeks that's significantly more than he's been gone so far. Absolutely and look when he came back. He didn't look too good. You know, he did look a bit sickly, but the North Koreans did soon after launch a massive Cyber attack on Sony after that 2014 movie.

1 (6m 17s):
The interview came out. The u.s. Is transgression is a Seth Rogen comedy North Korea isn't just the setting Rogen and his co-star James Franco playing journalists want to assassinate the country's leader. To go kill Kim Jong. I totally love her says they comes over to date so it could be that came as just hunkering down preparing a big move. He could also again be trying to escape the coronavirus. He could be sick. We just don't know and another thing to note Kim Jong-il his father when he died. We learned 48 Hours afterward. And really the only way we'll know if Kim is fine is if the North Koreans tell us he's dead or there's a new photo of him and state-run media, you know aside those two things.

1 (7m 0s):
I take everything with a grain of salt tell me more about the satellite imagery. What do you got? What do we know? So basically all we really know is that is trained and he has a very personalized slow-moving armored train for him to travel sounds cool his quite cool, but that train and there may be more of them of the same kind but there is a train outside of his facility at once on that facility is like Kim's Mar-A-Lago. It's next to the water. It's where he goes to hang out. He's got basketball courts and boats and all kinds of cool things out there. And that's just kind of his chill pad. There is a train there again one that looks like it's personal train and we're seeing that from satellite imagery.

1 (7m 41s):
And so we might think he's there there's a belief that he could be just hanging out why we're not too clear and doesn't tell us anything about his health, but it gives us some clue perhaps as to his whereabouts Kim Jong un's like what 36, I mean, is he a healthy dude? No, man. This is a very unhealthy guy. He's about five six five seven three hundred pounds heavy chain smoker believed to have gout perhaps because of an excessive love of cheese. Oh, well, look, if you saw videos of him walking around with Trump if he was breathing heavily. His walking was pretty labored. We've seen him with a cane before cardiovascular issues run in his family. And so the best guests that we have is that he's a relatively unhealthy guy, but even with the gout even with being overweight and smoking a lot, I mean 36 would Will be exceptionally early to be having who knows a heart attack or something like that.

1 (8m 37s):
Is there a chance that he might have the coronavirus is the coronavirus making its way through North Korea North Korea denies that the coronavirus has made it there but it defies logic. I mean, you know their shares a border with China for example, which was the origination point for the coronavirus and I've read reports and I've talked to people who say that of course the coronavirus has made it to North Korea. It doesn't seem to be massively wide. Spread but that may also be because it's hitting more of a Countryside where there is not a and you know, there's not real media there so it could be hidden away from folks. And so one theory is that maybe Kim is just hiding out not trying to get the coronavirus that being said, I mean of all the countries on planet Earth isn't North Korea potentially one that could avoid an outbreak because there isn't a lot of international travel in and out of the country.

1 (9m 25s):
Yes, and no. Yes in the sense that you know a can close borders. Is it is hard to get in and out without special permissions, but also there is tons of smuggling at the Chinese North Korean border, which is pretty long and some with the North Korean Russian border. And so it's completely possible that some people who were sick and working gave it to someone in North Korea or some North Korean went into China got sick came back it defies logic again that North Korea would somehow be immune it is probably not as badly hit as a bunch of other countries, but there's no way the Coronavirus This is not raging through that country as well. Why do you think North Korea hasn't just come out and spoken about this situation.

1 (10m 9s):
Probably two reasons. The first would be you know, Kim is actually in bad shape and they don't necessarily want to say that he is it is also extremely helpful for the North Koreans to see how the world reacts to this. They want to know how you know Americans on Twitter talk about it. They want to know how the Press covers it. How do countries react they gain a lot of From learning about how to wish week plus absence of Kim Jong Hoon looks I mean, they are watching C-SPAN. They are reading Vox articles. We know this because they have cited box before so seeing how I write listening to how this podcast doesn't episode on it listening to questions to Trump all of that informs North Korea as to well, how do other countries think about our country and talk about our country?

1 (11m 0s):
That helps them at the end of the

2 (11m 2s):
day.

1 (11m 4s):
What is it mean? If something is wrong with them? What does it mean for the world? Well for North Korea the unquestioned leader. The guy who is the grandson of the person who founded the country the son of the last leader the guy who made an entire government revolve around him if he is gone, then there's just a leadership crisis and we don't know what happens next and for the world, you know, if your China or Japan or South Korea the United States, the last thing you want is a country with a growing and dangerous nuclear program without a leader and without any sense of safety over how it might be used or whether they are actually in safe hands. It would be a disaster for North Korea itself and a real crisis for the world.

1 (11m 51s):
more with Alex in a

2 (11m 52s):
minute

1 (12m 5s):
You know when you're trying to like tell your friend all about what you're going through right now with this pandemic, but you can tell he just can't wait to get off the phone and listen to like Beyonce's Savage remix, if you're looking for a better experience with you know, relating your feelings to a human being you might want to try better help better help offers licensed professional counselors who can help with stress anxiety isolation or depression, whatever it is. They want to make sure you feel like you're not alone. Own to get started you fill out a questionnaire and assesses your needs and you get mashed with a counselor in less than 24 hours. And after that you can easily schedule secure video or phone sessions with your therapist from anywhere and exchange unlimited messages better help is Affordable right now our listeners get 10% off their first month with the discount and code explain.

1 (12m 56s):
So check it out better help.com explained better. Heelp.com explained If the pandemic is making his ass or you might want to check out the Thera gun, it's like a high-tech meat tenderizer for your sore muscles. It's a handheld device. You hold it with your hand. It's got a pulsating pads. It's designed to unknot the toughest knots you just hold the fair gun against the trouble spots and your body and let it do its thing tarragon is beloved by all sorts of athletes, but it's also a pretty nifty tool for people just like you and me. People who make podcasts and wash their own dishes and stuff like that.

1 (13m 41s):
It's a great way to deal with the aches and muscle tensions and other little pains that pop up when you're stuck working from a terrible chair in your kitchen or your closet. So feel better naturally treat your pain and get back to your life. Try Thera gun risk free for 30 days or get your money back. Go to therapy gun.com explained for a limited time today explain listeners can get up to a hundred and fifty dollars off your Thera gun there are gun.com / explained that's th er a GU n.com explained. Alex Ward was the rest of the world saying about Kim Jong un's absence.

1 (14m 24s):
Let's start with South Korea South. Korea says, everything's fine. Everyone should calm down. In fact, really? Yeah when I was talking to officials in South Korea, they were like look everything's good. Like we haven't seen anything change. Then you had the blue house. They're White House say everything looks fine. And then you had an advisor to the president Moon jae-in say look, we've got Intel that every he's up and well and so the Koreans more than anybody really are the ones saying that all this talk of can being incapacitated or dead or whatever that all of that is just hyperbolic that in fact, he's probably just fine interesting. What's up with that? Well, that might be the until they have I mean if any countries don't have good Intelligence on what's going on North Korea the South Koreans are pretty good bet and how about the United States?

1 (15m 8s):
The president obviously has a relationship with Kim Jang Hoon as well. So the first one was we heard from the US were a store in a story on CNN where an unnamed intelligence all told CNN that came was in grave danger after a cardiovascular procedure and then you know, that's when it's kicked into high gear is oh man, maybe something's wrong with Kim Trump got asked about Kim's health and he initially was like, well, these are reports that came out and we don't know and then use asking at this again a second time. He's like, I hope he's fine. I do know how he's doing, but I don't want to get into it. Did he elaborate? We know I mean, all he said was You have a very good idea, but I can't talk about it.

1 (15m 49s):
Now. You know, I can only say this I wish him. Well that could imply that maybe Trump knows something is amiss with Kim. Hmm. Does he have an air he's has children, but they are young. And so this is one of the great sort of questions and why we are also wanting to know how Kim Jang hoon is doing because we do not know who would be next there would be a huge succession crisis in North Korea. It is extremely hard to have a hereditary communist regime mmmmmm. We've seen it passed down from Sun to Sun already Kim Jong un's the third leader of North Korea, but we don't know who might be next if you were to pass now and right now there's a bit of a Game of Thrones perhaps happening in North Korea.

1 (16m 30s):
I was born to rule the Seven Kingdoms. And I will is that the HBO show you on a reference. You don't want to reference succession. I do what I want. And what I've decided I'd like to do is to formally ask you to come in and be the next chief executive of this company. I don't think I'm the right person. No because more people die in Game of Thrones violently Bleak. Yeah, you know who's in charge? We we don't know we can Venture some guesses though. What's your best guess Kim? Yo-jong Sister who made a big splash at the Olympics in South Korea that ago Kim yo-jong made her public debut representing Pyongyang at the 2018 Olympics impressing her host with her easy Grace and Chong or she met personally with the leader of South Korea.

1 (17m 21s):
She's also put out statements in her own name. She seems like Kim Jong un's you know, right-hand woman the person he trusts the most in the world and one of the mythologies you need to know North Korea is that the Kim family comes from the mount paektu bloodline. And so this is the mythical birthplace of all Koreans and if you are not part of that bloodline, you would struggle to have legitimacy to lead the country so she could be Kim 4.0. The reason to think she might not lead is she is a woman and North Korea is extremely distrustful of women the confusion system. They're also prioritizes men as leaders. And so there are many who believe that if she were to be given the reins that there would be Opposition to her leadership, she could overcome that by virtue again of her bloodline or she could follow in her brother and father and grandfathers Playbook and be extremely ruthless and start to order the killings of people who oppose a rule or she could act very belligerently in the world to solidify her place including perhaps as some weary have a missile launched even closer to the United States than before to show that she is very serious and very aggressive in that role.

1 (18m 29s):
What's the best case scenario for the planet right now? Is that that An jung-geun is actually healthy and resumes his sort of public appearances and everything goes back to normal or is it that maybe he's sick and someone else take over and who knows it leads to a more Humane situation for the people of North Korea. It's completely subjective. I would argue that none of the options look particularly good if Kim Jang Hoon work to still be alive then you know, the the Kim Jang Hoon. We know the guy who's willing to meet with world leaders. Including the American president continues but we know that he's also building nuclear weapons still we know that he's extremely ruthless guy who is still not really feeding his people who has relatives killed in order to maintain his power.

1 (19m 18s):
I mean, this is a bad dude, but there'd be more continuity than change if he were to be lets say incapacitated. Well, then you have a succession crisis. Then you have people jockeying for control and it could be you can imagine somewhat of a Civil War as well and that could be it. Extremely destabilizing and you don't want a Civil War in a country with nukes. There's just no reformer in North Korea. In fact, the only real person who considered a sort of Western opening was Kim jong-nam who is the firstborn of Kim Jong-il the last leader and Kim Jong Hoon had him killed. the most likely future for North Korea regardless of whether Kim Jang hoon is alive or someone else takes over is that it will continue to be an open-air prison that people will struggle to eat food make money and that all of the state will revolve around whoever the leader is Alex ward has a podcast it's called worldly today's episode is about something otherworldly those UFOs that were in the news this week check it out this is today explained