2 (0s):
The federal government has blocked access to abortion for people with low incomes for over 40 years through the Hyde Amendment enough is enough Joe Biden pledge to an ACLU volunteer that he'd end the Hyde Amendment and if elected we need him to follow through on that pledge Biden can lead on reproductive Freedom by removing bands on coverage in his first budget and refusing to sign bills with hide restrictions. The time to end hide is now paid for by American. The Liberties Union Inc rights for all dot-org.

4 (37s):
Wait, wait, wait. Wait, that's the wrong song.

3 (1m 0s):
It's the explained I'm Sean Rama's firm and I'm here with our summer camp counselor. No, I'm hassenfeld because it's Saturday and that means it's the final day of our today explained to kids summer series. No, I'm I am ready for a trip to the island of explained for some fun in the sun. Yeah, we're going back to the island. But just letting you know, it's gonna be a little different this time. Oh, yeah. This week has been really tough. Yeah. I know. That's why I'm ready, too. Some fun. I got my by towel. I got my bucket. Yeah, put him away Shawn. We are going to talk about something a little more serious on this week show it's an issue that's been with us all summer and obviously way longer racial Justice.

3 (1m 44s):
Yeah important stuff and we've been talking about it a lot this week again because of Jacob Lake and Fridays March on Washington. So we wanted to do an episode on this summer of protest that we've had. Okay. And what's the plan? How do you want to explain this summer of protests to kids? Ed's well, we got a note from this amazing 11 year old named Julia who wrote this whole speech on black lives matter. So the two of us went on a little journey to the island and that's what you're going to hear today on the show. We made three stops. We learned that racism is a system that its roots go way way back and that we can use all that history and knowledge to better understand it in the world around us today. All right, and this is safe for all kids to listen to yeah it is we talk about serious issues, but I think this Safe and important stuff for kids to hear.

3 (2m 33s):
All right, let's do it. Julia welcome

4 (2m 41s):
to the island of explain this place is

3 (2m 44s):
awesome. I figured that if we're

4 (2m 46s):
exploring the idea of racism in America,

3 (2m 48s):
we should start at the 1/2 3/4. That's just over there. It's got the history tree the knowledge branches some dictionary trees. Sounds good to me great. Can you tell me a little bit about yourself as we walk over this?

2 (3m 0s):
My name is Julia. I'm 11 years old. I'm from San Leandro, California and my favorite movie is bad boys to

3 (3m 7s):
nice. My favorite movie is

4 (3m 9s):
Lord of the Rings and my favorite tree is right over here the Merriam-Webster tree.

2 (3m 21s):
Yes. I see a lot of webs.

3 (3m 24s):
Yeah, the web's tree is a dictionary tree and all those shiny webs are actually definitions of words. Check it out.

2 (3m 32s):
Yeah, I can see them kind of the words have just grown together.

3 (3m 37s):
Yeah, there's tons of ways these words are all connected to each other. Other and wait, do you hear something?

4 (3m 43s):
Um, who's up in the tree? What that's

3 (3m 46s):
weird. Who are you and what are you doing up there?

2 (3m 49s):
Oh, hey there. I'm

1 (3m 51s):
Kennedy miss him. I'm up here

2 (3m 52s):
working to fix up the Merriam-Webster treat. It had a flaw definition of the word racism. Oh, right. I think I saw you in the news. Actually you were like, oh, we got a

3 (4m 2s):
college and you were trying to change this definition, but I didn't know you could change a definition what? What was wrong with the definition that they had of

1 (4m 12s):
racism so old definition did Encompass everything that racism really details? I used to have a lot of different conversations with people about how I personally experienced it and being affected by it. I would try to tell them look it's really baked into our society. It shows up and it hurts people of color in many different ways. When I would talk about my experiences going to a predominantly white school where I was the only black girl in class A lot of people would reach out to me and say no that's not racism and then they would point to this definition

3 (4m 59s):
that the old definition you've been trying to fix. I see it here dangling. I can just grab it

4 (5m 5s):
racism is a

3 (5m 6s):
belief yo what? Yeah. I totally forgot to mention the webs. And all the other things in this Forest read themselves

4 (5m 15s):
racism is a belief

2 (5m 17s):
that race is the primary determinant of human traits and capacities and that racial

4 (5m 22s):
differences produce an

2 (5m 24s):
inherent superiority of a particular race.

3 (5m 28s):
Definitely sounds like a dictionary, but what's wrong with that definition of racism

1 (5m 33s):
saying that That racism is more of a personal Prejudice that racism is believing that a black person isn't as good as a white person or they're not as smart or they're not as pretty when it's a lot more than that. There are a lot of systems that are in place to keep people of color behind in a lot of different

2 (5m 52s):
ways. It's more than just I just don't like black people because it's not just personal

1 (5m 59s):
Prejudice. It's systemic.

3 (6m 2s):
So Kennedy you're talking about systemic racism. Some Julia it sounds like you know what that

2 (6m 6s):
is. Yes. I do know a systemic racism is one neighborhood that is predominantly white could have more money going into their homes, but a minority neighborhood could has less money going into their home schools and they stay that way because they don't have as much yeah systemic racism is when racism is

3 (6m 27s):
part of the fabric of society. There are problems with racism in our neighborhoods. Like you said orb schools in police.

1 (6m 34s):
Departments. Yeah, I think that a lot of people need to hear that and understand that it's a lot more than you know disliking someone. It's a history. It's everywhere in our society.

2 (6m 48s):
So how did you fix the definition of racism

1 (6m 51s):
I decided to reach out to the dictionary Merriam-Webster so they could fix this.

2 (6m 58s):
How did they

1 (6m 58s):
respond they agreed and said that I was right. Oh, no way. They took the part that describe Prejudice and then included the systemic elements in the systems that are put in place to keep different races and backgrounds behind.

3 (7m 14s):
It. Sounds like a lot of

2 (7m 16s):
work.

4 (7m 17s):
I don't

1 (7m 18s):
know I need to go to

3 (7m 19s):
bed. Well, I really appreciate the work you're doing here helping people understand systemic racism. But how did they all get this way in the first place?

2 (7m 29s):
No, you might want to talk to Fabiola Sidious. She's

1 (7m 32s):
a reporter who walks people through this kind of stuff all the time. I think she's digging through the book fruits on the history tree right now. You should be able to catch her.

2 (7m 43s):
Oh great idea Kennedy. It was

3 (7m 46s):
really great to talk to you. You best of luck fixing the dictionary. Thank you. Okay, Julia. It's this way.

4 (7m 53s):
stuck past these metaphors over here

3 (8m 3s):
And Julie, are you heard Kennedy talked about book fruits, right?

4 (8m 6s):
Yeah, what are those

2 (8m 8s):
again? So there are exactly what they sound

3 (8m 10s):
like the history Tree Grows books and when you touch them they tell you stories.

4 (8m 16s):
Oh, you can see the tree

2 (8m 17s):
now. Yeah, the books are hanging on the tree kind of like lemons do on their tree.

3 (8m 22s):
Yeah exactly. Hold on is Fabiola even here?

4 (8m 27s):
Hello. Hey Noah.

3 (8m 29s):
Hey Fabiola. How's it

4 (8m 31s):
going? Yeah. Sorry. Give me a minute. It to disentangle myself from these history tree

2 (8m 36s):
Vines. Oh and I brought someone with me. Hi, I'm Julia. Oh, hey what brings you to the history tree today? We'll see committee recommended to come to you. So you could tell us more about how systemic racism is just baked into society. Yeah, like how did it get baked into society

3 (8m 53s):
in the first place? Where did it come from?

2 (8m 55s):
Well systemic racism definitely goes back to slavery but a lot of people when they hear slavery or learn about slavery they just Say it's so long ago. How could it possibly be connected to what's happening today? And so that's why I'm here clearing up all these Vines because it's almost like these parts of history have been covered.

4 (9m 15s):
Let me grab a book for you.

2 (9m 18s):
Even after slavery ended black

4 (9m 20s):
people lived under constant threat of violence and States puts different rules into place to keep them from voting. It's some kind of Soul even happens today and it's not just voting. It's everything.

2 (9m 33s):
He actually helped me pull back some of these

4 (9m 34s):
Vines here. Let me let me grab that vine over here. Oh, yeah. Wow, there are a lot of vines covering up this part of the tree. They fit history didn't hurt was hurting me. All right. Okay, so scare some book

2 (9m 50s):
fruits on things. That kids don't always learn about in school.

4 (9m 56s):
For much of the last century. A

2 (9m 57s):
lot of banks wouldn't

4 (9m 59s):
give black people loans. It was really hard for black people to make money on homes or live in nicer neighborhoods.

2 (10m 7s):
Yeah and all of this stuff built up over

4 (10m 9s):
time. Black parents had less money to pass on to their kids. So if you look around and see a lot of black neighborhoods and schools that are worse off than white ones. It's not a coincidence. It's like playing a game when the rules aren't

3 (10m 24s):
Fair. You know Fabiola, this is exactly the kind of systemic racism that Kennedy was talking

2 (10m 33s):
about. Yeah, and a lot of this history is hidden and if we don't do the work of uncovering this history and pulling back all of these Vines to really see that history. It's so easy for us to ignore systemic racism

3 (10m 46s):
man, who you tellin. Oh, hey Morgan Givens my favorite

2 (10m 49s):
story teller, how long have you been here?

4 (10m 52s):
Oh man a while, but I was just

3 (10m 55s):
out here collecting wood for my

4 (10m 56s):
workshop. Then I heard y'all talking about the

3 (10m 58s):
My grace is MM and I'm actually working on something connected to all of that right now. Oh, what are you working on? Oh man, it's just this really cool tool. I got that helps you actually use all of this knowledge like the history Fabiola shit and all that vocabulary stuff. Kennedy's helping the bill to it. Just kind of brings everything together thing is though you kind of have to see it. If you come to my workshop, I can show you Julia. You want to go head to the workshop sounds

2 (11m 25s):
cool to me.

4 (11m 27s):
Okay. Well, thanks so much for teaching us so much history Fabiola. All right, I'm gonna get back to clearing these lines know how about you get some of this wouldn't help me carry it home. I'll

3 (11m 37s):
trade you a sneak peek at my newest

4 (11m 39s):
invention. All right seems fair to me. I guess we'll check it out after the break.

3 (11m 56s):
Support for the Chevrolet comes from another show for kids called the big FIB it's from the people over at gen Z media and it's a game show that puts kids in the driver's seat adults in the hot seat and a sound effects robot strapped to the roof. I would listen just for the robot each week a kid interviews to experts on a particular topic one of whom is a genuine credentialed. The other is a total liar hilarious and fast-paced hijinks ensue. You can imagine the show teaches kids to ask insightful questions weigh the evidence before them and trust their guts.

3 (12m 37s):
Listen to the big FIB wherever you listen to your

2 (12m 40s):
podcast. boo, boo Explain

4 (12m 51s):
Julia isn't this path through the 1234 is pretty beautiful. Wait. Does that tree have fur? Well, it is a fir tree, but it's not that kind of fur. It's really just a metaphor for

3 (13m 5s):
making

4 (13m 6s):
metaphors think this is getting a little too meta. Yeah, it's really just a way for the tree to make you feel smarter than you are.

3 (13m 13s):
Anyway, Morgan. You said you've been learning a bunch about systemic racism recently. What did you learn?

4 (13m 18s):
I mean, I learned a lot

3 (13m 19s):
of things that can be kind of hard to see unless you're entrenched in

4 (13m 23s):
them. I didn't really have the language to describe what I was saying, but it was systemic racism.

3 (13m 28s):
At least that's how I started feeling when I used to be a cop in Washington DC. You were a cop. Yes. You have no idea. How often I get that reaction, huh?

4 (13m 37s):
I thought that maybe I could figure out how to help fix things. But the longer I was there the more I realize that the systemic racism in policing the same racism rooted in history. Was impossible to escape and I thought maybe there

3 (13m 52s):
could be a way to help others avoid the same trap. I fell into

4 (13m 55s):
you know, what how about I just show you this is

3 (13m 58s):
my workshop pretty dope.

2 (14m 0s):
Right? Wow. This is really cool. It's shaped like an eye.

4 (14m 4s):
Yeah. It's the perfect place to see things clearly as you'll see come on in. Y'all can just dump that would in the corner. I'll sort it out later cuz you gotta see this. Here's the pair. I was looking for

3 (14m 23s):
my brand

4 (14m 24s):
new eyeglasses. They say they just like the regular glasses. We have not

2 (14m 29s):
on an island only this time the lens is a little

3 (14m 34s):
different. That's right. They got those special see some systemic racism lenses and they're made out of the same wood.

4 (14m 42s):
The

3 (14m 42s):
history tree. So how do they help you? See systemic racism here. Maybe I could show you watch what happens when I turn on the news

4 (14m 53s):
the Minnesota police officer who fatally shot solando Castile during a traffic stop last year has been found not guilty of manslaughter. So with the glasses off

3 (15m 3s):
when I see a story about police being violent it

4 (15m 7s):
can look like maybe they were just doing their job,

3 (15m 9s):
or maybe they were in fear for their life for any number of Of excuses they give especially the one that comes up all the

4 (15m 16s):
time because of a few bad apples police officers are being disrespected all over our nation's 99.9% of our law enforcement officers are great Americans say, you know, what there there are some bad apples that are giving law enforcement a terrible name because they're allowed to do their job. They'll do a great job and you always have a bad apple no matter where you go. You have bad apples.

3 (15m 40s):
I used to be a police

4 (15m 41s):
officer. How can You this ain't about

3 (15m 44s):
just one or two bad people or one or two bad apples. This is the whole system and with the glasses on it's easier to see the history that led us right

4 (15m 54s):
here. And it makes it

3 (15m 55s):
easier for us to understand what we're actually up against to know the how and why behind how black people are targeted by police because of the racism in our society. It's not so much bad apples. It's that the whole bag is on fire here put these glasses

4 (16m 11s):
on. I'm not protesting against a few bad apples in police departments but a system of policing that wittingly or unwittingly targets people of color and they say needs to be completely overhauled.

3 (16m 31s):
Look not to knock myself because I think I'm pretty fly. But anybody can make these glasses. They're not so special. It can't be done outside of my workshop and the truth isn't so hard to see if we look for it. And if we make sure to think carefully about how we frame things. So what do you think about all of

2 (16m 49s):
this Julia the people who don't have these glasses they do see it even though they are not the lessons. They do see it. The thing is they ignore it.

3 (16m 60s):
I know it's Kind of sad how that happens because whether you've got the glasses or not, you got to be open to seeing it. I mean you do sound like, you know a lot about this stuff though. So you got any questions for me

2 (17m 12s):
for you. Like what is you see the most when you were working as a police officer

3 (17m 17s):
who how much time do we have? I guess the the one of the things I noticed quite early was how quickly people I came into the department with we're starting to be changed by the department. Aunt I would see a lot of my peers make excuses for when police shot and killed someone

2 (17m 38s):
yeah when the George Floyd situation happened I saw so many people quickly going to the fact that back in like 2007 this man went to jail I'm not saying that he's never done anything wrong what I'm saying is he still didn't deserve to die. Yeah. His daughter no longer has a

3 (17m 59s):
father I guess.

4 (18m 1s):
One

3 (18m 1s):
has to teach us things that help us grow. But Julia, how did you get to the point where you would like? This is a problem and I need to say something too because that's a that's a thing that everyone does. Well, my parents

2 (18m 13s):
have always been open with speaking about police brutality because well I've had older cousin. So when the George flow situation happened and I saw that I'm like I'm done because this has been happening for so long Only difference is now there's social media and people are recording. But the thing is we've been protesting for so many years that this is nothing new and the fact that we're still not being completely heard is

3 (18m 48s):
terrible. Who do you think needs to really hear though? Sometimes I feel like when we're talking we are like talking to the people who already get it but like who would you say we need to take this seriously? As seriously as you have been taking it and your family and so many others who needs to hear this and actually act on it people have higher powered

2 (19m 9s):
the president people who work in Congress or people are that are part of the judicial parts. We need people like them to be able to listen because as much as we can post on social media, please arrest these people they did something wrong. It's still not up to us.

3 (19m 29s):
Well, maybe what we need to do is Boost more Voices like yours earlier because a lot of folks don't know how to talk about this stuff nearly as well as you do, you know Morgan speaking of boosting Julia's voice Julia. I first heard about you when your teacher wrote to me and included a speech you wrote about black lives matter, which you gave it your school graduation. What made you sit down and write a speech.

2 (19m 50s):
I got on my computer and I was like, you know what I'm gonna write something like that's what I'm gonna do today and I did and then I sent it to my teacher Miss Rachael and I got back. And her immediately.

4 (20m 3s):
Yes, so

2 (20m 5s):
she says she wants to send it to the Future. So that happened and then I heard from her again. She sending it to the principal heard from her again. The person will send it to the superintendent people and then heard from her again and

4 (20m 18s):
it was going to you guys people gotta hear this that's what features are for. I didn't respond to her for a good

2 (20m 25s):
20 minutes because I kind of just sat here doing

4 (20m 30s):
I didn't know how Respond your

3 (20m 32s):
voice matters. Yo, do you think you could read us some of the speech now? Sure. Okay the floor is yours.

2 (20m 46s):
My skin is not a threat. It's funny how the world has different time zones how it could be Saturday on this side of the world and Friday somewhere else. Yes. Somehow the United States of America is stuck in 1920. That was a hundred years ago. Yeah. We're still fighting for our lives. For a place here. What did we ever do to make them hate us so much. They love our culture. They love to steal our braised the way we talk anything we call ours, but when it's that one white bad cop and that one innocent black person that black person's fears for their

1 (21m 36s):
life.

2 (21m 38s):
I used to be scared when my older cousins would leave at night. I was scared that one day. They would stay out too late and never come back. This is the world. We live in see when I was younger teachers used to ask kids what they wanted to be when they grew up some kids that famous. I was one of those kids,

4 (22m 2s):
but now I changed my

2 (22m 3s):
answer the thing. I want to be when I grow up. is alive how do I know that I'm going to make it out alive if I'm suspicious doing nothing from suspicious when I'm at my own house sleeping in my own bed and my scary if I have a black hoodie. Am I scary if I wear a backpack and my scary if I do nothing. Am I scary does my dad's Gary? There's my mom's gave this Mighty scary. Because let me tell you

1 (22m 40s):
something.

2 (22m 43s):
We are not

1 (22m 43s):
scary.

2 (22m 48s):
Ahmad Aubry Brianna Taylor George Floyd to me, right? Dr. Michael Brown Eric Garner John cocktail for Dante for me Chicago through main Bridge Rome. Tony Robbins Philip way Eric Walter Scott Freddie gray, and even DeMarco Taylor ehrenreich repairing miles Hall Jamie Johnson Road, Stefan class Jacob

1 (23m 6s):
like

2 (23m 10s):
say their names you will earn my respect when I don't have to fear from my life or anybody else's. And so then my respect will not come for free black lives matter. Joe Leah beset

3 (23m 42s):
from San Leandro, California. She's 11 years old and just started sixth grade online. This is the final episode of our today explain to kids summer series. It was produced by no MM hassenfeld bird Pinkerton and Morgan Givens. Jillian Weinberger edited the episode of theme Shapiro engineered and vaux's editorial director of podcasts Liz Kelly Nelson helped a bunch to special thanks to Amanda Northrop Rachel giannini Salim Hugh Penny

2 (24m 12s):
Lauren cats

3 (24m 14s):
Paul Garrity Rachel Israel, and my brother from another mother shrinivas ramamurti most thanks of all to the kids who've been a part of this entire series. We've done 35 of them. Um in all if you want to continue the conversation on systemic racism with your kids or with your grown-ups head over to vox.com today explained kids for a discussion guide on implicit bias and the role it plays in our communities again vox.com today explained kids. If you're looking for even more kids stuff. The Vox video team is making a whole week of videos just for kids.

3 (24m 55s):
One of them is actually an animated video. Of Jolie as speech it'll be out on Monday. You can find those videos at youtube.com slash Vox. And finally if you liked hearing from our storytelling Morgan Givens today, check out his kids Fiction podcast. It's called flyest fables. The today explain team includes Bridget McCarthy Halima Shah mu JT and Amanda al-saadi we had extra help this week from Paul Mound Z. Cecilia latex are facts and the Mysterious brake master cylinder does music. Today explained is a part of the VOX media podcast

1 (25m 31s):
Network.

2 (25m 50s):
Hi, I'm Avery troubleman and I'm the new host of the cut podcast from New York Magazine and the VOX media podcast Network. Every Wednesday the cut editorial team and I will explore surprising provocative ideas about style self culture and Power in our first episode. We're looking at what it means to be optimistic in 2020. You can listen And subscribe to the cut now on Apple podcast or wherever you listen.