0 (0s):
When the Taliban took over in Afghanistan late in the summer of 2021, the world had a question for them. Would they preserve the rights that women had spent two decades fighting for? And in a lot of cases, winning. Pressed on this question, Taliban leaders said yes they

1 (16s):
Would. The state policy is that we will give every right to the female members of our society that comprise half the population, their right to work, their right to education, and every single other right that has been afforded to them in Islam.

0 (29s):
But within weeks, they banned almost all girls from going high school. They told women to stay at home. Travel was no longer allowed. Women were banned from appearing on TV dramas or traveling more than 45 ish miles from home without a male chaperone. And then late last year, another huge blow, one that has the potential to affect not just women, but everyone in Afghanistan who relies on humanitarian aid that's coming up on today, explained

2 (1m 0s):
Dating

3 (1m 1s):
Apps. Whether you're single in a relationship or summer in between, you can't get away from them. But what happens when your romantic life is part of a company's bottom line? How did dating become a multi-billion dollar business? I'm Lakshmi Renn.

4 (1m 16s):
And I'm San Tosin Kurtz. We are hosting Land of the Giants, a podcast about the biggest tech companies of our time.

3 (1m 23s):
This season, we're exploring how apps like Tinder, hinge and Bumble impact our search for love

4 (1m 28s):
Land of the Giants dating games from the Verge, the Cut, and the Vox Media podcast network.

3 (1m 35s):
Subscribe for free wherever you listen and get our first episode on Wednesday, January 11th.

5 (1m 41s):
It's hard to make predictions about a new year just as it starts, but you're probably safe saying that 2023 will be bad for Hollywood.

6 (1m 50s):
All of these companies have either announced layoffs or have said that they are planning, hiring freezes or cost cutting in the new year. And that's a recession in my mind,

5 (2m 2s):
How a Hollywood recession might change what we watch for years to come. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast,

0 (2m 17s):
It's today explained AB Noel King. After all of those restrictions late last year, the Taliban issued more decrees limiting women's rights and freedoms. One of them banned women from attending university altogether after first restricting what subjects they could major in. And one decreed that women cannot work for. The non-governmental organizations or NGOs that are providing aid to millions of Afghans,

7 (2m 39s):
According to Taliban's justification, there are jobs that women are not fit for them. And they started from women's employment in security and defense sector. Of course,

0 (2m 51s):
Hosna Julio was Afghanistan's Deputy Minister of Women's Affairs and Deputy Minister for Interior Affairs. And as you might guess, she thinks these restrictions on work are ridiculous because for 20 odd years, Afghan women did many types of jobs.

7 (3m 3s):
We did have women in police forces, we did have women in the army. We did have women in the intelligence services, and we had civilian women who have been working throughout the institutions in terms of service delivery to the forces. And then we had 28% of the civilian si civil servants in Afghanistan's government. So they are banned from all those, I would say, opportunities. But then they reached to a point where they signed the decree and issued the decree to ban women from showing up in their workplace at the international NGOs and local NGOs,

8 (3m 37s):
Any such group that continues to employ women will lose its license according to the economic ministry. In response, four of the largest international NGOs upon which the country depends for aid, decided to suspend operations entirely.

7 (3m 51s):
Next phase was to ban women from higher education. So A, their access to education, their access to employment, and of course access to justice. That was the first thing we lost. And even access to humanitarian aid with most of their decrease that is heavily affected and negatively affected. The only decree they haven't issued yet is to dictate how to breathe or should they breathe or not.

0 (4m 15s):
The Taliban are Afghan, they are Afghan citizens. And Huna says that's indicative of the fact that Afghans themselves are divided on women's rights. But some Afghans have started to push back against these restrictions, including crucially men.

7 (4m 30s):
First, the students, they didn't attend their final exams.

9 (4m 34s):
Students quickly showed their opposition to the new law. Both men and women, including Atha University in the city of Jalalabad, male medical students there even walked out of their final exams to support their female classmates.

7 (4m 49s):
And for them, they, they had the slogan of either all or none. And then the university professors, tens of them resigned from their positions, but they're not gonna teach it at, at universities.

12 (5m 8s):
I'm a professor today. I've brought my teaching diplomas and my doctorate from today. I don't need these diplomas anymore because this country is no place for an education

11 (5m 19s):
Corner.

12 (5m 23s):
If my sister and mother can't study, then I don't accept this as an education. I will tear this up.

7 (5m 29s):
And then of course, women have always been on the street and then men joined them. It was a bright spot because we have never had men taking the initiative to stand for women's right in the past and so loud and being beaten by the Taliban.

0 (5m 47s):
What are you hearing that you're finding it hard to get out of your mind when you talk to people in Afghanistan and you hear how they're responding to women effectively being cut out of society? What sorts of things things do friends tell you? Family tell you, young people tell

7 (6m 1s):
You, first of all, the Afghans, they are so new to most of these civic movement movements or protestings or expressing themselves on the street, but at the same time who they're dealing with, like the Taliban, is that the right way to express themselves or to react, or there's a better way to, to react through the system or to work through different factions of the Taliban. Maybe there's someone in the Taliban who disagrees with it. And, and let's build on that, which is of course, another complicated situation. So that, that's the first reaction, like, what should we do so that we can get a, a reverse in, in that policy or that decree. But then at the same time, they're hopeful for the next three months because it's their winter break.

7 (6m 43s):
In Afghanistan, we have the three months winter break. So for them, because the decrees issued at the end of the fall semester, if the reaction is strong enough that we do have the chance to reverse the decree or the policy.

0 (6m 57s):
If a young woman chose to go into university anyway, what would she be risking if she said, I'm, I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna pay attention to this. I wanna go to school. I'm going to school. What would likely happen

7 (7m 8s):
Based on what the Taliban have done since the last one and a half years? To my friends, to my ex-colleagues, to my very close, I mean, women who are really close to me emotionally, what they have done to them, they will not be allowed from the doors to enter the university campus. If they would resist, of course they would be arrested, they would be detained, they'll be raped. And if they would raise their voices or they express themselves, be killed. Bruton,

0 (7m 40s):
The Taliban have banned women from working for NGOs. And as a result of that, as a way of pushing back, some of those organizations have said, we won't operate in Afghanistan. Do you think that is the right decision, given what's at stake here, which is that millions of Afghans are dependent on those organizations for food and for basic services?

7 (8m 1s):
I think as painful as it sounds to support the decision of the international NGOs, I do support that decision. Wow. I mean, since the very first day. The reason is because first, how is that possible to serve women without engaging women? Plus the last 20 years I've witnessed, and I've worked with most of these women, that women have been the voice and leading the initiatives to make sure that women are having access to those resources. The resources available through international NGOs are the aid, the vulnerable groups, the marginalized groups, and the children.

7 (8m 41s):
And these are the main victims of the situation, right? The humanitarian crisis. If the Taliban or banning women from working for those international NGOs to deliver humanitarian assistance, it basically means that international NGOs are allowed to serve only men and boys in Afghanistan. And if it's not for all, it should be for none. But at the same time, I also think that if the pain is shared, then there will be a collective voice. If men go through the same thing, then they should also stand for women.

0 (9m 13s):
If eight organizations stop providing services to both men and women, the men will eventually have to say something.

7 (9m 20s):
That's correct.

0 (9m 21s):
Do you have family in Afghanistan that depend on these NGOs?

7 (9m 25s):
I do.

0 (9m 26s):
You do. And, and you still believe that what it's gonna take is everybody essentially needs to take this hit so that the men will stand up

7 (9m 35s):
In Afghanistan? Women has never had anything equal to men, never For the international NGOs, most of the funding for these international NGOs are coming from democratic countries and from people who believes in democracy, who believes in gender equality, how can they justify serving only men in Afghanistan? I mean, it's just, just putting my my feet in, in their shoes. How can they justify spending that money only on men in Afghanistan? It, it just affects their core value. It, it, it affects the reason why they are in Afghanistan.

0 (10m 11s):
You were in Afghanistan at a time in which women achieved extraordinary gains. Is there any hope of going back to the way it was when you were in government? Or do you think Afghanistan is essentially gonna be stuck for many years in the way that it was in the 1990s?

7 (10m 26s):
The first option that the, that the women would start from where, where we left in, in August, 2021. That's that. I mean, that's not possible. But when it comes to where Afghanistan be stuck, where it was in in 1990s, I would say no, the Taliban are of course the same. I've never thought that the Taliban has ever changed, but Afghanistan has definitely changed. I was a child under the previous Taliban regime, and the, the, the entire nation was silent because they had gone through civil war, and that was worse than the Taliban regime. And then they had the Taliban regime. So there has been more than a decade where they didn't have any sort of stability.

7 (11m 11s):
So the people have been pretty much silent and things had been normalized. The level of violence, the level of, I would say brutal treatment of the Taliban, their, their policies, they had somehow been normalized for people. But now it's different. You see, men and women both together are, are reacting to the taliban's decrease and they're pushing them back, but at the same time, they're connected to the world. They can see what's happening outside the world. Back then, Afghanistan was entirely locked. But Afghanistan and the people, they have changed. And the generation is a different generation. So there will be certain pushbacks the Taliban has to open up at some point in time, but we can't go back where we were in in 2021 in terms of the progress we had

0 (11m 57s):
Coming up. Not all of the Taliban are hardliners. A look at what it might take to get moderates in a position to make decisions.

14 (12m 20s):
You nervous about these scientific mysteries?

15 (12m 22s):
Yeah. Yeah. I'm gonna do my best. Oh, wait, no, we're adversaries. I'm gonna beat you.

14 (12m 27s):
That is the attitude we want.

15 (12m 28s):
Yeah. I'm not here to make friends.

14 (12m 30s):
Yeah. I'm here to guess mysteries.

15 (12m 33s):
Yeah, that's bright.

14 (12m 35s):
This week on unexplainable, we're bringing back our game show. We got three potential mysteries. Mystery one.

15 (12m 43s):
Oh no, that's terrifying.

14 (12m 46s):
Mystery two

16 (12m 47s):
What?

14 (12m 50s):
And mystery three.

15 (12m 51s):
Get out. Come on.

14 (12m 54s):
Our guest this week is Avery Truffleman, host of the Articles of Interest podcast.

15 (12m 58s):
Thanks for having me. I'm terrified.

14 (13m 3s):
She's gonna try to guess which of these mysteries are still mysteries and which one has actually recently been solved.

15 (13m 11s):
Lisa, what's the answer? What's the answer?

14 (13m 13s):
To find out, follow unexplainable for new episodes every Wednesday.

0 (13m 25s):
It's today explained. I'm Noelle King. Can you just tell me your name and what you do?

16 (13m 30s):
Hassan aba. I am a professor at National Defense University in Washington DC and I teach courses on politics, history and culture in South Asian Middle East.

0 (13m 41s):
Professor aas has also written a forthcoming book called The Return of the Taliban, and he says, the Taliban right now are divided between hardliners in the city of Kandahar and more moderates in the Capitol. Kabul. It is the hardliners outside of the capitol who are winning, even if he says they don't quite know what they're winning.

16 (14m 0s):
I think Taliban are themselves at this point, not very clear on what their strategy is. They are going through a very complicated and difficult transition from being an insurgent group and a terrorist group to a group which is now responsible for running the government. There are so many different groups in Taliban, for instance, there are some who are more religious oriented, clerical who had spent all their lives in seminaries teaching religious doctrine. And there are others who were fighters who were military commanders who was fighting on the ground. And then there are a third group, for instance, which are all criminals involved in, in drug smuggling.

16 (14m 43s):
And then there's a fourth group of the young people who, for whom there was no other opportunity but to be employed by Taliban in the areas where Taliban were strong. So at this moment, there's an internal struggle between these groups. The hardliners want a very dogmatic extremist worldview. Those who are interacting with the US and other international organizations in Doha, they want a relatively open society, not open or liberal in a sense that we think in the West, but somewhat what what can be seen as a, as a decent society. The reason I said there is no clear strategy is because at this moment, they're all struggling internally to see who becomes dominant.

0 (15m 31s):
Can we assume that the hardliners within the Taliban are winning?

16 (15m 35s):
That is tragically true at this moment. Za, who is the supreme leader, so to say, who sits in Kandahar, interestingly not in the capital city.

17 (15m 46s):
He took over the group's leadership when his predecessor, Octa Monsour was killed in a US drone strike. He has authority over the taliban's political, religious, and military affairs, and is from one of the most powerful past clans.

16 (16m 1s):
And this is more like following the Iran model, if I call that, where there's a supreme leader. And then there are others who are in Kabul who are kept ministers who have more exposure. But at this moment, the clerical hardliners and the extremists who are very retrogressive, I should say, have a dominant role.

0 (16m 21s):
Professor aas, why do the hardliners have the upper hand? How did that evolve over the last year or so?

16 (16m 27s):
The expectation was that the relatively moderate elements or pragmatic elements, that they will have a upper hand and they will form the government. However, I think it was the former Han president Ashani, who disrupted the whole plan.

18 (16m 44s):
So the shockers come that he has actually left the country altogether and is now in Tajikistan.

16 (16m 50s):
The, the day he fled, he decepted the whole possibility of interim government arrangement.

18 (16m 57s):
So it does beg the question, where is this transition agreement up to? Is even, is there, is there a transition agreement for negotiators in Doha to, to agree to, to consider? So really adds to the uncertainty. As we get into this Sunday evening here in Kabul, we know if

16 (17m 17s):
There was an interim arrangement through negotiations between Taliban and US and the Ahan government, then there would've been a, a relatively smooth transition in a sense that the interim government surely would have a representatives from Han's government, other civil society elements and Taliban. But the way things turned out, when along with Oz's colleagues fled all these well-known political leaders, we used to call them war lords and, and very, very powerful ethnic groups with the militant groups as well. They all fled some to Pakistan's, some to Turkey, some to Doha. There was not even a single fire shot, even in anger in Kabul.

16 (17m 59s):
It was very strange. So a road was, and the pathway was laid out for the hardliners among the Taliban who just came in and said, look, everyone ran away with relatively moderate elements. They got kind of sidelined because the hardliners said, this is all about our victory, our worldview. The fact is that a trillion dollar that we spend all the security forces that were built with support from the United States primarily, but NATO and other countries, people have a legitimate question to ask, where are all those people? Why they never put up any resistance to Taliban? So about what's happening to women in Afghanistan, what all the other terrible things atrocities are happening.

16 (18m 41s):
It's not only Taliban who, and hardliners in Taliban who I would blame. I would actually blame also those who were supposed to fight and stick a stand for that. And they are nowhere to be seen. Also,

0 (18m 53s):
Historically, one of the problems in Afghanistan has been this tug of war between hardliners and more moderates. And we see what happens when the hardliners win as they have in this case. What would it take for more moderates within the Taliban to be the ones making the decisions?

16 (19m 11s):
I think one of the very important factors at play here is international engagement. Because one of the major disputes between Kandahar, the hardliners and the moderate element says that the, the hardliners want a total control. They think they need no support and help from anywhere else. Whereas the moderate elements argue that we have now inherited a different Afghanistan. There's a new banking system at play. There are imports and exports. The advance that even the Taliban need international revenues to, to buy things from the international market. The moderate elements are saying we need to continue to engage with the west. And some regional countries are doing that.

16 (19m 51s):
China is continuously engaged. Uzbekistan for example, is still providing free electricity. So the moderate elements are arguing we need electricity, which is a new power generation system. We need our, if not 5g, at least 3G, so that our telephones and mobile phones will work. And the hardline is perhaps are not. I had read somewhere, actually in one of the interviews I came to know that muah ha, the leader in Kandahar even has no cell phones. So that doesn't matter to him. But for the cabinet members and other officials, other bureaucrats, security senior officials in police and military, they all need to be connected.

16 (20m 34s):
They know that they can stay connected with the world. They, their mobile phones can work and their electricity can work only if there is some international recognition, even if it, if it's not diplomatic recognition at this point, but some engagement. So that engagement, if that continues to happen, is going to empower the moderate elements. And that's my theory.

0 (20m 58s):
And I wonder about the flip side of that, right? So you say engagement could empower moderate elements of the Taliban, that makes a lot of sense. But should those same countries that have some leverage in Afghanistan say to the hardliners in the Taliban, we are not going to give you electricity if you don't let women back into society. Should there be a more aggressive quid pro quo?

16 (21m 19s):
Hundred percent. Absolutely. I think Qatar has a huge leverage there. Uae, Turkey, the secret three countries are currently competing for big contracts of security of the Kabul airport, many other actually power generation projects as well. These three countries together along with Pakistan also because they have a huge connection and role to play in Afghanistan, US Pakistan. I was recently, no, Stan and I, I asked this question to some of the people because many of the government officials and think tankers and academics were very critical of their own government's policy to be very engaged with Taliban. And I asked them, so why are you engaging?

16 (21m 59s):
There were various reasons, but one was that, look, we don't want that the extremist elements in Afghanistan to succeed because that will start having an impact on our society as well. So Stan, the two countries which are providing them electricity and gas can actually say that, okay, we can switch it off as well. But that requires a coordinated, cohesive, regional strategy. But the challenge is that all these regional countries are competing with each other with financial trade interests in Afghanistan. They're not talking to each other. And they don't want to be seen as an extension of at this moment of the US policy. Cause the US policy got discredited in the region for a variety of reasons, right?

16 (22m 41s):
Or wrongly there, there's no leader at this moment also who's calling the shots.

0 (22m 46s):
But, but what I'm not clear on is what is the leverage that the United States actually has here?

16 (22m 52s):
We still have their money, their aran reserves that 3.5 billion, more

19 (22m 57s):
Than half of the country's 40 million people face acute hunger. The US president has signed an order to redistribute the funds and keep them out of the Taliban's hands.

16 (23m 6s):
They, they desperately need that money. This is another leverage also, which is about security. Taliban have been demanding and asking for security support to fight. I sk and

20 (23m 17s):
Blood covers the walls and ceilings of this mosque in Kandahar, the aftermath of a deadly suicide bombing. More than three dozen people were killed in the explosions and scores more were injured. The so-called Islamic State Group has said it was behind the attack. The Taliban consider is their enemy and have vowed to hunch down the perpetrators and bring them to justice under Islamic

0 (23m 41s):
Law. I find myself unfortunately feeling very, very pessimistic if only because of what has happened in Afghanistan over the last couple of decades. And, and if only because it seems like women at the moment just do not have a seat at the table. Is there any part of this that makes you optimistic?

16 (23m 59s):
Pessimism is no answer, is no. Policy answer m takes us in a totally different direction. So I am optimistic for two or three primary reasons. Even if Taliban have not changed in their ideological sense, Afghanistan has changed the tens of billions of dollars of in investment in building new institutions in Afghanistan. I think they will show an impact at some point on social media every day. We are hearing from local Iran who are getting us these small clips. And this is Avan diaspora, which is very active as well. This is new. They all want a different Afghanistan.

16 (24m 40s):
It is not that the Taliban's, hard diner extremist views are being implemented without being challenged. If Taliban are going to continue with these atrocities against women and other minorities, the regional countries ultimately are going to push back strong as well.

0 (25m 5s):
Professor Hassan ABAs, his forthcoming book is The Return of the Taliban, Afghanistan. After the Americans left and earlier we talked to Hosna Jaleel. She's a former official in the Afghan government. Today's show was produced by Victoria Chamberlain, edited by Matthew Collette, engineered by Paul Robert Mosey and fact checked by Laura Buller. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.