0 (1s):
Russian mercenary Yevgeni Prigozhin, who led his forces on a wild and riveting dash toward Moscow this weekend in what seemed like a coup attempt released a recording today. He said he was not trying to overthrow Vladimir Putin, but to hold people to account for screw-ups in the Ukraine war. Putin, you will recall, started that war, but as Russia's regular army struggled, it started to seem like he expected Prigozhin and the mercenaries to finish it.

1 (28s):
Prigozhin today is the face of the war in Ukraine For many Russians, he is a paramilitary leader. He is apparently the creature of the Kremlin. Somebody entirely created v Vladimir Putin, who has now turned on his creator. And I think it's anybody's guess where this goes now, but I have a feeling it's a fight to the finish. Whatever temporary agreement they may have reached

0 (50s):
Coming up on today explained, give Guinea Ian's journey from hotdog cellar to top chef to mercenary to mutan ear.

3 (1m 1s):
I'm so sorry, ma'am. I know you need this medicine, but it looks like it's not covered by your insurance.

4 (1m 7s):
Yeah, unfortunately I had to deny that one. Wait,

5 (1m 11s):
Who are you? I'm

4 (1m 12s):
Your insurance company's pharmacy benefit manager. I get paid based on the price of a medicine, and I don't make as much money off this

5 (1m 20s):
One. No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

6 (1m 29s):
Hello, I'm Mr. Stir Perel. I'm a psychotherapist and host of the podcast. Where should we begin? I invite you to enter into my office and to listen in on the sessions that I conduct with people from all walks of life, grappling with the challenges and choices in their relationships. I'll be dropping new episodes every Monday starting July 10, listen and follow. Where should we begin on your favorite podcast app?

7 (2m 4s):
This is today explains.

0 (2m 8s):
I'm Noel King with Paul Wood. He's a Journalist who wrote Abominable Showman for The Economist Magazine. It's a very good and very detailed article about the life and times of Yevgeni Prigozhin. And we started with Persian's Mutinous weekend.

1 (2m 24s):
Prigozhin took his mercenary army and marched on the Russian military headquarters for the south of the country and Rosoff on Don.

8 (2m 32s):
He warned Russian soldiers against resisting his forces and called on them to join him and his 25,000 strong army.

1 (2m 40s):
He then said he was gonna keep going to Moscow and certainly telegram channels, social media channels associated with the Farner group. The no Grippe leads said he was going to Moscow.

9 (2m 51s):
Right now, we have crossed the state boredom's ability directions. The border Patrol came out to greet us and to hug our fires.

1 (2m 58s):
Everybody thought this is a coup. President Vladimir Putin went on television to say pian had to surrender. All his men had to desert

10 (3m 7s):
Him. Those who organized and prepared the armed mutiny, those who took up arms against their comrades have a trade Russia and will answer for it.

1 (3m 18s):
There seemed to be absolutely no way out, at least without loss of face for both parties. And in a sense, both men were the losers. After this, a deal was cobbled together by the Belarusian president, and now Prigozhin has turned his tanks around, has gone to Belarus, and the sort of uneasy truce has taken shape.

6 (3m 37s):
Now he's been pardoned by President Putin. It's peace and love, everything forgiven and forgotten as you were. Or is it,

0 (3m 50s):
It does take someone with something special to kind of march on Vladimir Putin's Moscow. Right? So we assume that this man has some amount of bravery. Where did he get his start? Where does this man come from?

1 (4m 4s):
I think Prigozhin is a man almost entirely formed by his prison experiences. This is a man who went to jail aged 18 for 13 years. In fact, he was let out after nine, leading some to suspect he may have cut a deal with the authorities. But for 10 years of his life, his late teens and his twenties, he was in Soviet prisons where the guards and the authorities essentially leave what are called the thieves in law. The thieves, according to the code, they leave them to keep discipline and order. And I think we can speculate that Pian had quite a tough time in prison. He'd been sent there for leading a, a robbery on a woman. Pian is alleged to have choked her until she passed out. Now, his version of events is that he was a tough character who got sent to solitary confinement for a long spell, and in solitary began reading, reading voraciously.

1 (4m 53s):
And this brought about a transformation in his character. Others are slightly more skeptical either way. He emerged after almost a decade in the toughest environment imaginable to a Russia that was changing, was about to go through glasnost and Pera. And he was in a place Lenin grad as it then was. It became St. Petersburg. It was the Wild West. And you, you can imagine that the prison education might have prepared him for that in some way.

0 (5m 19s):
How did it prepare him exactly? He gets out of prison and he's qualified to do what

1 (5m 25s):
Ian's version of events is that he came out a reformed character and started the first hotdog stand in St. Petersburg, inspired by the American example, and quickly made so much money that he opened fine dining restaurants, places where the city's elite went, including Vladimir Putin. And that's where the Putin Brin connection is said to have started, at least in the official version. Now, the unofficial version of events is that Prigozhin went into prison, a small time gangster came out of it with those same associations. And I spoke for instance, to Mikal Kovski, who was once a billionaire until he challenged Putin, very unwisely and was jailed, and now leads an opposition group in London.

1 (6m 8s):
And he feels it's impossible for anybody to run a restaurant in St. Petersburg in the nineties and not be connected to organized crime. But either way, whether he's just reeducated himself in prison or has got all these very useful connections, he does become a very successful restaurateur. And that in St. Petersburg in the nineties was not an easy thing to do. Food was short. Russian cuisine had a reputation as somewhat abysmal, and yet he opens these fantastic restaurants and then becomes the caterer of choice for the Kremlin. And suddenly you find President Putin inviting George W. Bush to eat at one of Ian's places and pian sort of hovering over them like the world's most highly paid wine waiter. And this is not a trivial thing.

1 (6m 49s):
This is a regime that likes to manage appearances, and those appearances are extremely important at these banquets. And then of course, Prigozhin literally became the personal caterer to President Putin, who occupied a position knowing full well that many of his predecessor had been poisoned or feared poisoning. So the important thing here is that he emerges into a position of trust. He's absolutely trusted by President Putin, and that opens up a lot of new avenues for him, including the mercenary business.

0 (7m 16s):
So this man moves from Putin's chef, cater chef, trusted person to the head of the Wagner or Wagner mercenary group. How does that transition happen? Well,

1 (7m 29s):
It's a bit of a mystery. Remember that for many years, Prigozhin disavowed any connection to Wagner, and he sued journalists who said that he did. It's only since I think last September or October that he emerged as into the open as the person running Wagner. And remember too, that private military companies, pmcs, as they're known, are still illegal in Russia. So all of this was, was done in the shadows. I think the, the best theory I've heard was that arms needed to be smuggled out of Russia and into Syria. And Pian had a big logistics operation because he, he took his, his chefing or his restaurant business and his catering business and turned it into catering for the entire Russian army, almost the entire Russian prison system.

1 (8m 15s):
That's what happens when you are, when you are favored by Vladimir Putin. So we had all this ability to do logistics. He started moving weapons and then started recruiting people for the mercenary group that became Wagner. But even that isn't known for certain, it's all shrouded in mystery. What's not a mystery is when it all emerged out into the open.

11 (8m 33s):
So I've read and heard from various sources that Wagner mercenaries are most likely active again in Ukraine, and that there are sabotage groups. There is a suspicion that President of Venomy, Zelensky, Kiev, mayor Kko, and a whole series of female and other politicians are their assassination targets.

1 (8m 52s):
Well, right at the beginning, everybody including me assumed that Wagner would be the tip of the spear, and then they were somehow absent. This was a bit strange. The explanation I've had from people like Mikal Kowski, the, the former oligarch who runs essentially his own intelligence operation, is that Wagner were tasked with assassinating Valdimir Zelensky, the Ukrainian leader, but failed. This is something I've heard from another source, a retired Russian mafia man who I've known for many years. And essentially the allegation is that pian enemies within the fsb, that's the successor to the kgb, tipped off the Ukrainians something, which sounds incredible on the face of it, but absolutely if you know Russian power politics and Kremlin invite, who does sound quite credible,

12 (9m 38s):
Yes, I'm still alive and that's why I'm, it's it's me talking to you. It's not any kind of acknowledging that it had been used.

13 (9m 49s):
I, I'm very glad not to be talking to a hologram of Selin.

2 (9m 53s):
Yeah.

1 (9m 57s):
Anyway, they were supposed to botched this assassination and were then sidelined until, of course, the Ukrainians fought back much harder than Putin expected. This was supposed to be a shock and a type campaign to make the Ukrainian government collapse in 10 days, but they didn't. And so some months later, there's a desperate need for bodies at the front and enter Prigozhin,

0 (10m 17s):
Enter Prigozhin, and what happens from there? Prigozhin brings his mercenaries toward the front. And then how do they do

1 (10m 23s):
The first bunch of mercenaries? A lot of quite professional ex soldiers, and he burns through them at an incredible rate. But then Putin, and this can only, I think, have been Putin's personal order. Then Putin allows Prigozhin to go into the prisons to recruit. And Prigozhin is very good at this. He knows how to talk to these people. He's an ex-prisoner himself. In fact, that's his pitch. He says, look at me. I was once in solitary confinement and now holding up his medals. He, he holds up the medals personally presented to him by President Putin. And he has a almost impossible to resist offer for the prisoners. And some of these people are murderers and rapists in there for another couple of decades. He says, God and Allah can get you out of here in a pine box.

1 (11m 5s):
I can get you out of here tomorrow. There's no guarantees after that, but I promise you, you are never going back to prison. And tens of thousands of people, 40 or 50, a thousand of them, we think did join up. And that gave pian a central role in the war just as the army was faltering. Now, he may have done this for self-serving reasons, and I spoke to one of his former senior commanders. There's almost no sources in Wagner, but I spoke to a man called Mar Dulin who left Wagner. He thinks this was always about a political future for Brin, and he had to get one victory. And that's why when you come to what Wagner actually did in Ukraine, which is expend 20,000 lives for a little town called Bmu of almost no strategic significance, you have to understand it in terms of Ian's personal ambitions, at least as, as people close to me have described them to me.

0 (11m 53s):
Yeah, we've covered Bak Mout on the show. And one thing that everyone told us repeatedly was, this place is not strategically very important in the slightest. Why did Yevgeni pian do what he did this weekend? He marches toward Moscow and then eventually strikes some sort of deal with Putin. What do we think he wanted to scare Putin?

1 (12m 15s):
My own belief is that he was backed into a corner a couple of weeks ago. The Army had this long running feud with the chief of the general staff and the defense minister. They backed him into a corner by getting Putin to endorse an order for all Wagner Group volunteers to resign their contracts and join the regular forces. That would've been the end of Wagner as an independent army and perhaps the end of Prigozhin himself. So he may have been driven to this, but there are many other theories. One theory is that he had or expected the backing of a significant section of the security forces. Otherwise, to me it's, it's kind of crazy that he would embark on this.

1 (12m 56s):
How on earth did he think he could win unless he thought that that some element of the security forces were gonna come in on his side. And that's what my Russian mafia contact says was supposed to happen, but didn't. But there's also the psychological explanation. This is a man schooled in sort of prison ethics. And you don't back down and you don't portray people. His personality is bombastic. It's emotional. He reacts instinctively. Maybe there's a simple psychological explanation for this, although don don't think you last for as long as he's lasted in Putin's Russia by acting impetuously. I think he backed himself into a corner from which he saw no way out and had to make this desperate gamble.

2 (13m 34s):
There

1 (13m 34s):
Is a question mark over the extent for me to which Prigozhin has independent action because the wages of his men are paid from the Kremlin. He's always been a Kremlin cipher. It'll be innocent to see how much independent loyalty he can come command now. And if he does come into a tussle with Putin, whether people are gonna put their lives on the line, having seen him turn around once, and Putin still has all the cards here, he has hundreds of thousands of the security forces. But it's Russia, you know, anything could happen.

0 (14m 12s):
That was Journalist. Paul Wood, his piece, abominable Showman is in the Economist magazine. It's very good coming up. What does this all mean for Vladimir Putin and a hint to keep you with us? It is very bad indeed.

3 (14m 38s):
I'm so sorry, ma'am. I know you need this medicine, but it looks like it's not covered by your insurance.

4 (14m 44s):
Yeah, unfortunately. I had to deny that one. Wait,

0 (14m 48s):
Who are you?

4 (14m 49s):
I'm your insurance company's pharmacy benefit manager. I get paid based on the price of a medicine and I don't make as much money off this one.

5 (14m 57s):
No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by Pharma.

2 (15m 6s):
I,

14 (15m 6s):
I'm Na Aza and I produce, and I'm on the podcast on with Kara Swisher. Last week, Kara and I went out to Martha Stewart's house and it was, well just have a listen. It's great. Let's set the scene a little bit.

15 (15m 19s):
Okay. The scene is we come in, we get taken in another vehicle throughout the estate. There's chickens, there's peacocks, there's

14 (15m 25s):
Horses, there's

15 (15m 26s):
Horses, there's staples,

14 (15m 27s):
And there's a giant copper pot, which is the size of you actually size of get in the copper Pot. It's actually perfectly size of you.

15 (15m 34s):
I'm not leaving here. She

14 (15m 35s):
Could cook us into chili in that thing. She might, if the interview gets too

15 (15m 38s):
Tough. She would and it would be delicious.

14 (15m 39s):
Don't worry, we didn't get cooked in the cauldron. But thanks to Martha Stewart, the interview did get spicy.

16 (15m 44s):
I was hired by Mark Burnett to fire Donald. Oh, okay. To say you fired, just like he had said to hundreds of people Right During his apprentice. I was to fire him and take over.

14 (15m 57s):
Oh, Martha, to hear why she says she didn't get to fire Trump. Listen to On with Kara Swisher. Wherever you get your podcasts,

0 (16m 14s):
It's today explained. We're back with Timothy Colton, professor at Harvard watcher of Russia Answerer of the 64,000 ruble Question, where is Vladimir Putin today?

17 (16m 25s):
Well, he's in Moscow, but we don't know exactly where. That's not information they would normally share. Common sense suggests that when you've had a, an earthquake like this, the leader of the country should be reassuring his countrymen and informing them and the world what is going on. And he has just not been up to that. So the last time he appeared was Saturday morning Moscow time, which is two days ago. And all of these developments have unfolded with no direct word from him. So yes, it's very unusual

0 (16m 58s):
As this co coup attempt or whatever it was, was unfolding. Was Putin speaking to Russians at all? Was he, was he talking from the Kremlin? Do we know where he was as this was all happening?

17 (17m 10s):
Well, no, we don't know exactly where he was. Like I said, that tends to be treated as a state secret in Russia. He, he resides kind of a 15 or 20 minute drive from the Kremlin and does a lot of his business there. So he probably was there, but we know that he has duplicate offices and Studios for, you know, telecommunications. So he could have been almost anywhere, but clearly he was in the capital city area. As for your question about what did he have to say to the people of Russia? No, he made a single appearance, which was on Saturday morning. So the trouble, and I don't think it was really a coup attempt, it was something a little short of that, but call it the Mutiny breaks out on Friday evening, and he is invisible overnight, which is already interesting.

17 (17m 56s):
He then appears on Russian television, probably in a recording, but you can't tell at roughly 10:00 AM I believe it was early morning on Saturday, two days ago,

10 (18m 7s):
Any actions that split us is betrayal of your people, betrayal of these comrades that are fighting on the frontline, a knife in the back of our people.

17 (18m 21s):
And that was the last time we saw him. The Kremlin Press Service did say today that he had had a telephone or a remote conversation with the ruler of, I think it was Cotter, one of the Gulf states today, Moscow time. But that hardly seems to be what he should be spending his time doing.

18 (18m 39s):
Not every country is shutting. Russia, the leader of the United Arab Emirates met today with Russian President Vladimir Putin to foster economic ties.

17 (18m 49s):
So there's, there's definitely an era of mystery about his whereabouts, about why he's not appearing in public are things exactly what they seem to be. It's not clear what kind of condition is he in As

0 (18m 60s):
Vladimir Putin was watching Yev Guinea Prigozhin march toward Moscow this weekend. What do you think he might have been thinking?

17 (19m 8s):
Well, the March occurs after Putin has already denounced Foren as a trader. So that is his broadcast to the Russian people on Saturday morning. He said, this is an unacceptable, this is opening the door to terrible events for Russia, including, he even mentioned a civil war. So I imagine that kind of talk was floating around in his head. I would imagine he felt Prigozhin was ungrateful, you know, that Putin had given him an opportunity to make his mark and, and Prigozhin had betrayed his trust. So I mean that sort of thing. I would also imagine he wondered why his army was not doing more to prevent these people from moving North.

17 (19m 53s):
What's, what's the matter with them? So one of Prgo ocean's demands was that Putin fired the Minister of Defense and the chief of General staff when Putin addressed the nation on Saturday morning. He didn't mention either of these gentlemen. They also disappeared from view, although the Minister Shoygu reappeared today. So my guess would be that his anger would've been directed at the whole lot of them. They've all left me down and that pian would be tops on the list. But the others are hardly come out looking well either. you know, he would've had a little bit of time, I'm sure, to consult with Russia's multiple security agencies about what to do if these fighters had actually reached Moscow.

17 (20m 34s):
And, you know, they were only a few hours drive away. But we heard today that the total number of soldiers involved in this operation was probably something between five, six, 7,000 men, not as previously stated, 25,000, let alone 50,000. And even in its current state of disarray, I think the Russian military and these many security services could have dealt with what is really a relatively small force.

0 (21m 1s):
Did Prigozhin actually pose a threat to Putin this weekend? Or was it overblown?

17 (21m 6s):
Oh no, I think the whole thing poses a threat because first of all, it, it makes it abundantly clear that Putin has screwed up again. So he's made the second colossal error in the last year and a half, first of all, starting the war in Ukraine. And secondly, now this don don't think that Prigozhin posed a physical threat. don don't think it was ever really possible that pr Prigozhin forces were gonna pierce Central Moscow or occupy the Kremlin or anything like that. It's more the threat to Putin's authority. Hmm. you know, he's been running the country for a quarter of a century. He is kind of an elected monarch and he's been made to look rather foolish by this whole matter. So I think that that is bound to have lasting effects.

17 (21m 47s):
And Putin must be deeply, deeply concerned about them because he is an elected leader and he's had a lot of support from the population. But, you know, these things can implode at moments of crisis. Tell

0 (22m 1s):
Me about this agreement that Putin struck with Prigozhin.

19 (22m 4s):
Russian State Media is quoting Vladimir Putin's spokesman, Dimitri Peskov, who is saying that the criminal case against Evgeni Prigozhin, the leader of the Wagner Mercenary Group for Armed Rebellion is going to be dropped. And in exchange, Prigozhin is gonna agree to go into some kind of exile in Belarus.

17 (22m 28s):
Well, one of the crazy things is that Putin himself has not commented on the agreement. He did not, he's not the one who announced it, it was his press secretary Piko on Saturday evening. So again, a 10 hour gap, 10 hour gap overnight when Putin is, seems to be paralyzed, doesn't know what to do, then he makes the announcement that Prigozhin is a trader. And 10 hours later, his press secretary says, nevermind Prigozhin will be allowed to relocate. And Belarus next door, Putin has said zero about it. He'll have to eventually, but so far not a peep. So, you know, I it's a very awkward moment for him. How do, how do you explain that in 10 hours, the situation is, you know, goes from black to white.

17 (23m 8s):
Mm. How do you explain the fact that the leader of a neighboring state in Belarus is the one who supposedly brokered this deal? So this is the leader of a country of 9 million people mediating a political conflict in a country of 147 million people. There's something simply Toms turvy to this. And so part of his silence may be figuring out a story or a narrative that's plausible and that deals with puzzlement, I'm sure on the part of ordinary people, but clearly in the elite as well. So the Russian media today are full of references to things that even a week ago could not be discussed publicly.

17 (23m 49s):
I'll just give you one example. An a well-known editor named Ko, who is the editor of a, a major newspaper, which is, you know, under government influence but is not owned by the state. But he's always been very careful in what he says about Putin and, you know, generally supportive and all that sort of thing. He gave a, an interview to the New York Times, I think it's in today's this morning's version where he says, you know, for the first time we're starting to talk, we members of the elite about, you know, a different approach to, to governing Russia. And he said, I think it's now possible that members of this higher stratum are gonna go to Putin and tell him they don't think he should run for president for his next term.

17 (24m 34s):
So that would be a peaceful evolutionary response to the problem. But nonetheless say that it's time for the leader to go, time for him to be eased out is something that, that, that Chekov would certainly not have dared to say a week or two ago. But that, but here we go.

0 (24m 59s):
That was Professor Timothy Colton of Harvard. Today's episode was produced by Fiona Petros and Hadi Modi with an assist from Hai Artsy. Our editor is Matthew Collette. Our fact checker is Laura Bullard. Patrick Boyd and Christian Ayala engineered today's show. And I'm Noel King and it's today explained.