2 (1s):
Do you like marketing? If not, but you kind of need it. MailChimp has an all-in-one marketing platform that allows you to manage more of your marketing activities from one place. So you can mark it smarter and grow faster. So you can collect organize understand and act on all of your audience needs and data. You can learn more at mailchimp.com heads up. This episode features some violence some murder protect the kids and maybe yourself to will start in a beat

1 (37s):
in June of 2017. There were these two friends who had grown up together in a shanty town in Manila in the Philippines. They had known each other almost since childhood, you know, they played basketball together they hung out now they were in their 30s and both of them had been entangled in the drug trade so that night there was Power failure and both of them couldn't sleep. So close to midnight one of them and well barbaric walks over to the house of his friend. Jefferson's Ariana and says come let's talk and as they were sipping their coffee a car passes by and its head lights illuminate the other street corner where there were two men wearing balaclavas face masks and dark jackets.

1 (1m 27s):
So Jefferson told his friend broke cops. He said because he knows cops. He'd had run-ins with him most of his life. He thought they were cops because they were tall well built and they held their arms. He told me, you know, like sort of to their sides like very close to their waist like they had guns in their ways. When he turned again to his friend one of the men had shot his friend in his friend fell over when well Barbara was on the pavement. So Jefferson ran, but what he didn't know is that there were other Shooters in the nearby street corner and they shot at him. He was hit in the neck and in the leg so he fell face down on the street and pretended to be dead because he feared they would come back to shoot him by then, you know, he was in and out of Consciousness and he was gagging on his own blood because he had been shot in the neck the gunshots, of course waking the neighbors people started looking at what happened and no one dared to help because they were afraid of the gunmen were still around they were afraid you know, who the gunman where and the ambulance driver who was you know, an ambulance hard by the local Council Refuse to take him to the hospital because he too was afraid.

1 (2m 54s):
The police investigated the crime scene there was a police report. So this was not something secret and yet this killing was never counted by the police as a drug-related killing. It was simply a homicide under investigation one of 30,000 since the drug War

2 (3m 13s):
began. Sheila Coronel is the director of the stabile center for investigative journalism at the Columbia journalism School

1 (3m 34s):
in 2016. When he had just been elected president Rodrigo duterte declared a war on drugs. And even before he was formally sworn into office alleged drug users and drug dealers were being shot in the streets in Manila. Usually very late at night both by the police or by unidentified

2 (3m 55s):
assailants. She's been asking one question about the president of the Philippines.

1 (4m 1s):
I wanted to find out how many people had been killed

2 (4m 5s):
and as you can

1 (4m 5s):
imagine it was not

2 (4m 7s):
easy. She told me how one goes about looking into a president's Hit

1 (4m 11s):
List we started out looking at police documents and I went to different journalists have been covering the drug war killings and ask them for their

2 (4m 23s):
records then she Really

1 (4m 25s):
hit the streets. I started going Street by Street and started looking for the victims and then started collecting information from parishes because the dead had to be buried and the church has kept quite detailed Files about everybody they had helped and we put all of that

2 (4m 45s):
together in the end. She published a

1 (4m 48s):
bombshell. We found it to police were not only not recording many killings, but that they were not acknowledging that this killings were drug war related. They were deliberately understated. The number of people killed as a result of the president's War on

2 (5m 5s):
Drugs. Do you have any idea after conducting this investigation how many people have been killed as a result of the president's War on

1 (5m 16s):
Drugs? We couldn't say for the entire country. We limited our data Gathering to just three Municipal areas in Metro. Manila Metro. Manila is a big city. It has 13 million people which shows the biggest cities where most of the killings were taking place and our estimate is that the real count is about three times more than what the police say. We just looked at the first 18 months of the drug war in just three cities. We recorded 2320 the police say there were about just over 900. We worked with our human rights Justice Titian Patrick ball who looked at our data and by analyzing both the gaps and the overlaps in the data, he was able to build a probability model that said the Actual number of deaths is close to 3000 the police say it's about

2 (6m 12s):
965. So the police are seriously understating these numbers how many of these killings are done by

1 (6m 22s):
cops and good number of them are killed by the police. There are two types of killings. There are those who died from police operations. Usually these are sting operations and the suspects are killed allegedly because they fired the police first. So the police say they fired in self-defense. There are thousands of those the rest of the killings are killings by you know, like the story of Manuel Barbie and Jefferson Soriano. These are by masked gunman and we don't know what they are human rights groups say they are off-duty policeman or Contract Killers Heart by the police the police say no these gun men are members of drug syndicates and they are killing these people.

1 (7m 7s):
Cause they may you know informing them or that they are members of rival syndicates.

2 (7m 13s):
Do you buy that

1 (7m 14s):
argument not really because drug dealing in the Philippines has never really been violent until now the Philippines is not like Central America where you have armed gangs that sell drugs and have high powered rifles drug related killings in the past have never been you know, at this magnitude. It's possible some of those killings are buy drugs in tickets themselves, but I think those do not account for the vast majority of the killings. Is

2 (7m 41s):
there any hard evidence that these masked killers are connected to the

1 (7m 45s):
police there have been some interviews by human rights groups and by other journalists where these so-called Vigilantes admitted they have been paid by the police Amnesty International released a report more than a year ago where they interviewed a couple of these Contract Killers and this killer said that they had been paid, you know some Times as little as $200 for every drug user that they killed and that the price was higher if it's a drug dealer.

2 (8m 17s):
What is the drug situation like in the Philippines? Is it pervasive what drugs are people doing? Is it a widespread problem

1 (8m 25s):
drugstore? Not really a big problem in the Philippines until around the early 80s when crystal meth that was smuggled in from China started streaming into the country. The Philippines is a call center Hub. So it is said that many people in order to stay awake because they work through the night. They use crystal meth like others would use Red Bull. They were grocery Baggers. They were taxi drivers pedicab drivers in a dismal three-wheelers that wound around the streets of Manila. But if you look at the UN numbers Matthews in the Philippines is actually lower than it is in Thailand or the US.

1 (9m 7s):
It is a problem, but it's not that big a problem.

2 (9m 11s):
How do you go from having not that big a problem to having unarmed young men in their pajamas being shot in the

1 (9m 19s):
streets duterte started talking about drugs and crime

2 (9m 24s):
Hitler of fostered three million Jews. Now there is three million brother 3 million drug addict. I'd be happy to slaughter in them.

1 (9m 42s):
Even before duterte came the usual conception is that drug users steel so that they could support their habits, but what to tear to did very successfully was to frame drugs as an existential threat the root of all

2 (9m 57s):
crime, these drug dealers know fully well that their business is against the law. They know that illegal drugs waste that we lives dysfunctional eyes families and ruin relationships. They know that one's hook addicts will die slowly slowly dance and yet they persist in doing what they do oblivious to the terrible harm that because the people and communities

1 (10m 39s):
Before duterte came the opinion polls showed that most people thought their main problems were jobs and livelihood after the their drugs and crime was top the list of people's concerns. So by constantly hyping and playing on pre-existing fears. The dead came to power I will save you is basically what he said. I will make sure your children can walk the streets and that they will not become drug addicts themselves.

2 (11m 13s):
and that resonated up next this President who's killing people in the streets. He's doing it with an 80% approval rating. I'm Shawn Rama's firm. This is today explained.

2 (11m 54s):
Have you ever been sitting in the corner of a room like a Wallflower desperate to know who to talk to what to say when exactly to say it and the best channel to deliver the message MailChimp can feel your pain they have an all-in-one marketing platform that they want to offer you as a solution. It's going to help you grow your business how you might ask they're all in one marketing platform eliminates the need for multiple tools by giving you everything you need to create publish manage and measure multi-channel campaigns.

2 (12m 36s):
They're all in one marketing platform is powered by a marketing CRM so you can collect organize understand and act on all your audience data. They're all in one. Getting platform has everything you need to start marketing your business today. Let MailChimp help you Market smarter. Y'all learn more and mailchimp.com. Should I think a lot of people here bits and pieces about Rodrigo duterte, but could you tell us where he came from?

2 (13m 20s):
Where did he get his start in politics? Where was he born

1 (13m 23s):
to dare to comes from a city in the southern Philippine island of Mindanao. That's it is called a vow and he was a public prosecutor there and in 1986 after Marcus fell and all the local officials where change he was named the acting vice mayor of diversity.

2 (13m 42s):
And for those who don't know Marcos was kind of a big deal.

1 (13m 45s):
Yeah, Ferdinand Marcos was the Philippine dictator. He was ousted from power in

2 (13m 50s):
1986. There is a mutiny military and civilian against President Marcos and his government the defense minister of the Philippines and the second in command of the army are holed up in a fort surrounded by friendly troops demanding that Marcos regime

1 (14m 7s):
Time and you know after Marcus fell the Americans very concerned about the strength of the Communist Insurgency. And so part of what they did was that they funded this counterinsurgency operation that was composed largely of Vigilantes. These are civilians. These are anti-communist Vigilantes who took it upon themselves to run after the Communists themselves and supported the Philippine military's efforts in raining in the Insurgency. I was actually there and Davao City at that time and I saw this bands of men in a carrying long knives and guns walking down the streets looking for suspected Communists.

1 (14m 57s):
And so there were these two armies battling each other in the Avada the Communists and the Vigilantes and the Philippine military and duterte became vice mayor that point and he takes credit for restoring peace and Order and ever and he is remembered for that and appreciated for that. And it was on the basis of the devil model that he became president. He basically told Filipinos, you know, I made a vow the ninth save the city in the world and I will do that for the country

2 (15m 35s):
and how did he make Davao? Safe,

1 (15m 39s):
there was the devil death squad composed of thugs former communist rebels former paramilitary Troopers and they were allegedly paid by the hour City Hall and by the diver mayor duterte has denied sometimes that he is the father of the death squad. Sometimes he jokes that he's with a death squad, but it's generally believed in Davao and the rest of the country that he had something to do with the death

2 (16m 14s):
squad. He just kills the criminals.

1 (16m 17s):
He kills criminals.

2 (16m 20s):
Yes. Hey killed about three of them because there were three of them. It is really know how many bullets from a gun went off inside their bodies, but it happened and I said, I cannot lie about it. And so when exactly does he become

1 (16m 39s):
president 2016 exactly 30 years after the fall of markers at a time when Filipinos were getting tired of democratic

2 (16m 49s):
Politics the Philippines woke up to a vastly different political landscape this morning after the orbit certain victory of a Brash outspoken mayor in the presidential election

1 (17m 0s):
politics was corrupt the same families that had ruled the country for many years were remained in power. And in fact, we're more deeply entrenched in power and so the country was very ripe for a populist

2 (17m 14s):
disruption Mister the tert a was viewed as a wild-card candidate who would at best bring some color into the pole but his pledge to kill criminals and to End crime and Corruption had Nationwide appeal.

1 (17m 31s):
He sort of ran or other Insurgent campaign didn't have much money at the start. He had a sort of dark. Charisma he cursed the lat he threatened a lot. He language was often violent and crass and that resonated among a lot of Filipinos because he seemed authentic and he exuded sort of hyper masculine Authority a little bit like Vladimir Putin, he would be photographed in his check shirts in aviator sunglasses. He had photos of himself, you know slinging guns, he would be in target practice and he would tell stories about shooting people including how he shot a classmate during his senior year of law school because that classmate made fun of his provincial accent yikes.

1 (18m 23s):
Yes, and he started that story with I am used to shooting people and you can construe that as a joke or a fact or a threat but it was very effective.

2 (18m 34s):
What has he done as president other than Have this drug

1 (18m 38s):
war he don't his main constituency are the aspiring middle class in the Philippines. These are you know, the families of overseas workers call center workers who work the late at night and so also worried about their safety and they aspire to a better life and so duterte has appealed to them because he talks about things that they like, you know safety on the streets traffic better Urban amenities and duterte's the mayor that's the stuff he knows and so he says I will fix the traffic I will make you safer on the streets. I will give you better quality of life. Like, you know, he's given free Wi-Fi in public places.

1 (19m 21s):
He's given free college education in state-funded schools and colleges and universities. So that has played well

2 (19m 31s):
how popular is he

1 (19m 33s):
80 percent popularity according to the latest

2 (19m 36s):
survey. Wow. He talked about his Brash attitude his masculine Persona and it's easy to compare him to people like Trump or Putin. But you talk about free college and free Wi-Fi at he sounds like a different kind of guy. Is he a populist leader who actually delivers.

1 (19m 56s):
I mean, he hasn't delivered an all of his promises, but he's delivered some it was the same thing that he didn't double, you know, he cleaned up the streets. He provided infrastructure. He did a very successful 911 emergency light. They even provided shelters for Abused Women. I would say he's backup withholding patriarch. Like I will take care of you if you obey the rules if you don't smoke in public if you obey the traffic lights if you behave what if you don't follow his rules, what if you speak up? Well, the count is that 1400 Petty criminals were killed in Davao during his mayoralty the military certainly has gone after A communist now become critical of his Rule and number of human rights lawyers and Priests have been gunned down by masked assailant.

1 (20m 48s):
So it's not clear killed them, but it's clear that they did speak out against the president

2 (20m 54s):
and Filipino still like him.

1 (20m 55s):
Well, you have to understand how broken the country has become even policemen feel this they say that we drill a drug dealer the drug dealer calls up his politician friends and then we have to set him free something drastic has to be done and that is a popular perception people feel that Extreme Measures, you know, they support the kind of vigilante justice that data represents because the justice system is so broken. So we should also understand it from the other point of view is that this is a broken society and there is this man who says I will take care of it and it would this is the price that we will Up to pee and people think well, let's give it a try and see whether it

2 (21m 41s):
works and the 80% of Filipinos who support duterte do they know about all

1 (21m 48s):
these killings too tired to himself has said that when he becomes president the fish in Manila Bay will grow fat with the carcasses of criminals. So they know what is wrong as there are drug

2 (22m 2s):
pushers in the streets in my country for our long as there are drug lords. This campaign will go on until the last day of later occasion until all of them are

1 (22m 16s):
killed the photographs of the Dead are on the news there have been accounts there, but most Filipinos would I think rather look away? Just as they did in Davao. It would be better to Gail drug suspects or persons who are generally involved with drugs rather than seeing civilians are innocent people getting killed. He's part of a global populist moment. I must say in in the Philippines. There is an other ring or demonizing of drug dealers in other countries, it's migrants, whether they're legal or not and people have looked away just as they have done here when my grandchildren are separated from their parents, they put their hands to their ears so that they will not have to listen to the cries of the children.

1 (23m 12s):
That have lost their parents because of this immigration policy. So we've seen it elsewhere.

2 (23m 20s):
Do you think he's changing the Philippines or changing the nature of Filipino democracy?

1 (23m 27s):
I'm worried about institutions such as the police where abuses of the kind that we've seen in the drug war have become routine and go unpunished. I'm worried about his hold on the justice system. He will have the majority in the Supreme Court. I'm worried about Congress whose Independence has really been damaged. There is no real action in the Philippines. He would be out of office in three years. So it's really more the integrity and further deterioration of our institutions. I'm worried about. I don't know how permanent whether this kind of vigilantism will survive in the long run.

1 (24m 8s):
I hope We will learn our lesson from this and part of the reason why we are documenting all of these killings is to say, you know, the safety has a cost. There is a prize we have to come to terms with this. We cannot just bury all of these deaths and forget about them. At some point we would have to account for them and acknowledge them. And I think that time will come

2 (24m 49s):
Sheila Coronel teaches at Columbia School of Journalism the piece she wrote about this story is called the uncounted dead of duterte's drug war. You can find it over the Atlantic. Thanks to MailChimp for supporting the show today one last reminder that MailChimp has an All-in-one marketing platform that allows you to manage more of your marketing activities from one place.

2 (25m 37s):
So you can mark it smarter and grow faster. You'll know who to talk to what to say when to say it and the best channel to deliver the message. What a dream learn more and mailchimp.com.