0 (0s):
Hey, look over there. A classic distraction technique.

2 (5s):
You mean Tennessee's new law that limits adult cabaret. A distraction from what though?

0 (10s):
From the real issues that they were voted into office to focus on jobs, healthcare, keeping our children safe from harm at their own school.

2 (20s):
Tennessee lawmakers say this law is about keeping kids safe. The trouble is they're targeting a thing that does not seem to be happening.

3 (27s):
I keep hearing this narrative that, you know, we're doing this to protect the children, to protect the children, and I have asked the governor many times to produce any evidence that would suggest that children are in danger at these performances. And he has thus far provided me none

2 (42s):
Coming up on today, explained what this law says and what it's really about. I'm Noelle King. It's today explained and to explain this vaguely worded state law, restricting what is being called Adult Cabaret. We called Melissa Brown. Melissa's a state political reporter with the Tennesseean newspaper in Nashville. Obviously

4 (1m 20s):
There's, you know, a wider national trend of legislation targeting L G B LGBTQ communities. Allegations often from conservative circles that drag performances sexualize or groom children. Though drag is a century's old sort of performance art form, right? The Senate sponsor Jack Johnson has repeatedly said the bill is not intended to target drag performances. We're

5 (1m 41s):
Not banning drag shows. We're not banning allowing someone to dress up, you know, a man to dress up like Dolly Parton and sing songs, or a woman to dress up like Elvis and sing songs.

4 (1m 50s):
However, it really seems that the Tennessee law can be connected to a legal battle last year in a Tennessee city called Jackson, it's

6 (1m 57s):
L G B T Q, pride season in Jackson

2 (2m 0s):
Pride.

6 (2m 1s):
Hundreds came out to Capitol City. Pride's coming home for Pride Festival on Saturday

4 (2m 7s):
House. Representative Chris Todd, who is a Republican, was among a group of civic leaders in Jackson who challenged a plan to hold a family friendly drag show in a local pride celebration. This was last fall. Todd at the time, referred to drag as quote child abuse and said drag events were clearly meant to groom and recruit children to this lifestyle.

7 (2m 31s):
That's exactly what these kind of entertainment shows are directed toward, and that is to groom and recruit children to a lifestyle that, that they're not old enough to even understand.

4 (2m 43s):
The two groups eventually came to an agreement. The pride organizers agreed to hold the show and age, restrict it to adults, and that seemed to sort of nullify the court battle going on there. But Todd eventually came to co-sponsor the drag bill in this Tennessee Journal assembly.

2 (3m 1s):
The other lawmaker in Tennessee who obviously and understandably is getting a lot of attention is the governor Bill Lee. What has he said when pushed on why this law is necessary?

4 (3m 11s):
Lee hasn't spoken extensively about this bill. You know, he did sign it last week without a lot of fanfare. He didn't hold, you know, a press conference or send out a statement. And a couple days before he signed, he was at press availability and was asked about the bill and he said Children should not be quote, exposed to sexualized entertainment, to obscenity,

8 (3m 31s):
Sexualized entertainment in front of children and obscenity for children is something that shouldn't happen in this

4 (3m 38s):
State. And that's been sort of the breadth of what he has said on the bill. Most of the debate has gone on in the general assembly.

2 (3m 47s):
What does this very controversial law actually say? Melissa?

4 (3m 51s):
I think it's important at the beginning of this to sort of correct the record on the Tennessee's drag bill. It's not an outright ban on public drag performances and it certainly does not, for example, criminalize or make illegal a family-friendly event evolving drag queens or similar events. That has been circulated a lot and I understand why legislation can be incredibly confusing. It's not a hundred percent an outright drag ban, though there are a lot of valid concerns that the law could have a chilling effect on drag. So the law states, we wanna kind of get into the meat of it, that it's an offense for a person to engage in adult cabaret entertainment on public property or in a location where the adult cabaret entertainment could be viewed by a person who is not an adult.

4 (4m 37s):
And the new law uses some existing statute wording to include male and female impersonators in adult cabaret entertainment. However, and this is the key part, adult cabaret entertainment is also defined as adult oriented performances that are harmful to minors. Now, harmful to minors sounds like a vague term, but it's actually a legal term that's defined elsewhere in state obscenity law. And so to legally qualify as harmful to minors as defined in Tennessee code, a performance would have to meet a pretty strong three-prong test, which basically says that the average person would have to find it obscene and patently offensive to prevailing community standards.

4 (5m 19s):
And the other key here is that it must also lack serious literary, artistic, political, and or scientific value for minors to be found harmful under the obscenity code. And as we know, obscenity standards, particularly when involving a form of speech or artistic expression, can be a really high legal standard to meet

2 (5m 41s):
In. Interesting. I wonder if Tennessee already has obscenity laws on the books and you've just described them. Why do the lawmakers who introduce this say an additional law is needed?

4 (5m 55s):
If you look back over committee debates and floor debates, several of the democratic opponents to this law made that point a lot. That anything that would reasonably be found obscene under this new law is already found obscene under existing law.

9 (6m 10s):
Obscene behavior is already covered under federal law. I'm sure that most of us also saw the self-proclaimed Nazis who were protesting drag shows. Is that who we wanna align ourselves with?

4 (6m 23s):
And there haven't been a lot of explanations about what this does in addition to an existing obscenity law. But the Republicans backing this bill, you know, say that it's important to protect children from sexualized entertainment. I don't find

10 (6m 36s):
That appropriate any shape, form, or fashion. And in in a public venue especially.

4 (6m 41s):
What really remains to be seen is how this will be enforced going forward. A constant debate within committees is about how this could be construed in other contexts. There were Republicans and Democrats and committees who were concerned about how it might affect major pop concerts. Right.

11 (6m 55s):
Tennessee's on Miley Cyrus at Bridgestone Arena, I've seen her there in the past myself. Would that cross the line? Could she be subject to a pair of handcuffs based upon the vagueness?

4 (7m 8s):
We have a huge entertainment community here in Nashville and right, the Senate sponsor, Senator Jack Johnson has been fairly careful in how he describes this bill and saying that it's just overtly sexualized, such as like stripping those kinds of performances that will be banned here. But there are also Republicans who have gone on record saying that they think any drag performance is inherently inappropriate. Whether or not the law is actually used in that way, we just don't know yet and how it'll be enforced.

2 (7m 37s):
Okay, so some of the, we don't know yet gets to enforcement and wording of the law. We just don't know. Is the vagueness intentional?

4 (7m 46s):
You know, I've talked to a national defense attorney and he did call the language and the law quite broad part of the law that says entertainment that could be viewed by a child. That's very vague. Does that mean when someone walks by a restaurant that's age restricted and sees something through a window, you know, could someone get in trouble for that? The attorney pointed to that specifically and said, that is very vague. And again, there are a lot of questions about how that could ever be enforceable. I think we're in a holding pattern in Tennessee. Obviously the law goes into effect on April 1st, and then it's just a waiting game to see where if and when really this statute could be enforced.

2 (8m 25s):
What's the response been to the drag law in Tennessee?

4 (8m 29s):
I think there's been a lot of confusion on both sides of the political aisle about what the law actually says. And there's also a lot of fear, I think in L G B T Q communities and drag performance communities that there could be sort of piecemeal or haphazard enforcement of the law.

12 (8m 46s):
I'm a trans person, depending on who is reading that law, they may determine that I am a female impersonator.

4 (8m 52s):
Obviously we've seen a lot of national pushback. The White House House slammed both bills for quote, vilifying Americans.

13 (8m 58s):
These ridiculous policies aren't just unnecessary, they are dangerous. They vilify our fellow Americans.

4 (9m 6s):
I think many people support the law in Tennessee as well, but we're also hearing a lot of people speaking out against it.

2 (9m 11s):
How does this law fit with other legislation that affects L G B T Q communities in your state?

4 (9m 18s):
The general assembly session started in January and bills affecting the L G BT Q community were really among the first handful filed and really among the first prioritized in committees the day that Governor Lee signed the drag bill, he also signed Senate Bill one, which bans all form of gender affirming health treatments for minors in the state.

5 (9m 39s):
Well, it helps the, the minor children who otherwise might be subjected to surgical procedures that remove body parts or being prescribed medications that make permanent changes to a child's body.

4 (9m 53s):
And really, you know, unlike the broad language and questionable potential application of the drag bill, SB one is very specific and will require any transgender or non-binary children currently undergoing treatments like puberty blockers or hormone therapies to end all of their medical treatments by next March. There aren't necessarily criminal penalties attached to the bill, but health providers could lose their licenses for prescribing the treatments moving forward.

14 (10m 22s):
They've been legislating all kinds of, you know, things that are relevant to the field of medicine without being doctors themselves. And a lot of times, without speaking to experts in the field, that they're legislating and that's dangerous.

4 (10m 35s):
And Democrats have decried this legislation and really sort of this whole slate of bills, but have little power to stop the legislation from advancing under the Republican super majority here in Tennessee.

2 (10m 51s):
You cover Tennessee state politics, but I wonder what you've seen nationally. Is there an expectation that this drag law in Tennessee could be a precedent for other

4 (10m 60s):
States? I think we are seeing that. I know states like I think Kentucky, Idaho, North Dakota, maybe a few others are considering similar bills

15 (11m 8s):
Across the country. Similar laws are in the works with conservative lawmakers and at least 13 other states advancing bills to restrict drag.

4 (11m 16s):
Drag performance and ensuing controversies have really become sort of a issue dujour of the legislative season and I think it's reasonable to, to expect to see them in other states.

1 (11m 31s):
Coming

2 (11m 32s):
Up next, a Tennessee drag performer who is fired up.

16 (11m 42s):
Have you guys heard of the pitch? It's a podcast you may have previously heard advertised on this show, and you are actually currently hearing it advertised on this show right now. The Pitch is a podcast where real entrepreneurs pitch real tech investors for real money and it's back for a real new season. Each episode follows a hopeful entrepreneur through their business pitch before a panel of prospective investors. Founders have raised over 10 million on this show from some legendary early stage investors. Several of these startups are worth hundreds of millions of dollars today. Money, money, money, money.

16 (12m 22s):
This season you'll hear pitches on everything from a better catch up to a potential solution to one of the biggest problems of our time. That would be energy listeners could hear the next billion dollar idea way before anyone else and learn about the world of startup investing along the way. You can follow the pitch to hear new episodes every Wednesday.

17 (12m 47s):
If there's one company whose jingles have burned themselves into my brain, that company is Coca-Cola.

1 (12m 59s):
Smile always coca.

18 (13m 3s):
But that's not the only thing they burn. No indeed. Coca-Cola actually contracts with a chemical company in New Jersey to burn piles of cocaine.

17 (13m 12s):
That's right, cocaine. Turns out that Coke's famous secret formula is a lot weirder than you can imagine.

18 (13m 18s):
On the latest episode of Gastropod, we've got the scoop on the world's favorite beverage, plus the backstory of the drug addicted pharmacist who

17 (13m 26s):
Invented it, find Gastropod and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (13m 32s):
How do you plan to engage younger voters? That's a question. Yeah, yeah. And what's the, what's the answer? Look over there. Where

2 (13m 41s):
It's today explained. We're back talking about a new law that is intended to restrict drag shows in Tennessee.

3 (13m 47s):
My name is Slade Kyle, and my onstage name is Bella De Ball, and I am a full-time drag entertainer and show host

2 (13m 55s):
Bella hosts and performs in drag shows, some for adults, some for both adults and kids during the daytime at the Atomic Rose in Memphis.

3 (14m 2s):
Bella is a sweet, classy southern lady. She is the intersection of Miss Piggy, Mr. Rogers and Dolly Parton.

1 (14m 13s):
Hey

19 (14m 13s):
Y'all. I'm your little show host is the Bluff bombshell Miss Bella DePaul

3 (14m 20s):
With wigs and heels. I'm about seven feet tall, so, oh yeah.

19 (14m 24s):
Did somebody order a giant woman? Good. Here I am. Hey there. Atomic Rose. Look at you on this beautiful rainbow someday.

3 (14m 35s):
Most of my aesthetic is very classic drag. Very southern drag. So you're gonna get big hair, lots of sparkle, big long gowns.

19 (14m 43s):
Has anyone here on this packed house Sunday never been to a drag show before?

1 (14m 50s):
How

2 (14m 50s):
Did you get into performing in drag?

3 (14m 52s):
So I am a founding company member of the Tennessee Shakespeare Company. And while I was with them, I got to play a couple of female roles on stage, including the nurse in Romeo and Juliet. And so it actually started through Shakespeare. That was also during the time when Drag race was really taking off. It was so, so liberating and so delightful. I had to keep doing

19 (15m 12s):
It. Now I have assembled an amazing cast. I have entertainers from all of the races of our local drag competition, more of the roses.

3 (15m 21s):
So I pride myself on giving people a glimpse into the the crayon box of drag. So I want you to see all the colors. I really book a diverse show. So you're gonna get some old school, you know, like a little dolly and Whitney, you're probably gonna get some comedy, you're gonna get some camp. You're gonna get at least one girl who does all the dances and stunts that people are used to seeing on drag race. But mostly you're gonna get a really diverse representation so that if you are new to the art of drag, you'll walk away with a much broader understanding of how many people fall under that umbrella.

2 (16m 2s):
Is it a good time? I mean, the audience leaves happy, no one breaks into tears. There are no children running out the back door like, but, but be honest with me, is it fun for the

3 (16m 10s):
Audience? If anybody ever breaks into tears, it's because I'm doing a ballad in sign language and they were moved. But no, our families that come to our Sunday brunches are returners. They keep bringing their kids back, their kids begged to come back because it is a really fun time. You get to go in, sit down, eat a really great meal, be entertained for a little while. We kind of call it gay church,

2 (16m 35s):
Gay church. And presumably nobody's being dragged in. Nobody's being forced to watch the

19 (16m 40s):
Show. You know, amazingly

3 (16m 42s):
Enough, you have to choose to come into the building and watch the show. Yeah, we, we have yet to find a way to compel people or force them to attend.

19 (16m 53s):
Now I do have to speak about something important this morning. As you may know, drag is under attack here in the state of Tennessee.

2 (17m 4s):
Bella, what do you think this new drag law means for your job? The way you make a living, your performances? What are the effects you think you might see soon?

3 (17m 14s):
I was really, really worried about the effects of this bill because you know, as you're aware, it's very vague in its terminology, very overreaching. But in just the past couple of days since the governor signed it, I've seen the statements from the district attorneys.

20 (17m 29s):
I think the bill is ill advised. I think it's a solution in search of a problem. I think we've got so much on our plane right now that we should be focusing on drag racing, not drag

3 (17m 38s):
Shows. And I've also seen the White House press secretary's comments about the law. And that has greatly heartened and emboldened me. That lets me know that they're gonna continue, continue fighting for us in supporting our community. If they were to attempt to misuse this law, the effects that it could have there are to tell me that I can't march in the pride parade that we have every year because that would be public. I am an ordained minister and I have couples that have asked me to marry them in public in drag. I would be concerned if someone would attempt to use this law to infr on my freedom of religion. I've been asked by several of the area churches to go into their spaces and lead drag queen story time.

3 (18m 19s):
The law makes no distinctions about what drag is or is not. You know, I'm sure you saw the viral photo of Governor Bill Lee from his 1977 yearbook.

2 (18m 28s):
I did.

21 (18m 29s):
This is the photo. Somebody on Reddit posted it from a 1977 high school yearbook purporting to show the governor apparently in a skirt, a wig, and a necklace. Again, allegedly the governor, it's most likely part of a powder puff football game where kids dress as the opposite gender.

3 (18m 46s):
And he, in those statements said, you know, that's ridiculous. You can't conflate something like that with sexual entertainment in front of kids. And I agree that's not the same thing, but he does not agree with me that he signed a law that makes no such distinctions. It doesn't give you a clear picture between that and any other kind of dress up any of the arts. Nothing about ballet or opera or theater. Nothing about people in costumes or fundraisers or anything like that. And especially it doesn't give you any exemptions for trans people, gender non-conforming people, non-binary people in their everyday presentation. As a non-binary person, I, I frequently wear clothing that is not ascribed to my gender.

3 (19m 27s):
And I would worry that somebody would see me in public and attempt to use this law to chill my constitutionally protected expression. This is our right to appear in public as well. And we've had public drag performances in Tennessee for over 50 years.

2 (19m 42s):
Okay. So a long history. And so I wonder what you're hearing from people you work with, your employers, the owners of the Atomic Roast, have you gotten any warnings? Have they said anything specific like, we're gonna protect you in this way or that way?

3 (19m 56s):
Yeah, absolutely. When I started getting vocal and speaking out, the owner of the Atomic Rose, who is a cis hat white man sat me down and told me, he was like, look, I agree with everything that you've said. I've looked into it. We've talked with our lawyers, we've talked to the A C L U. Everybody says we should go forward that we're not in any violation. We need to keep going. So he is like, I will let you be the voice and the mouthpiece for the club. You say what needs to be said and we will back you. We have doubled up our security. We've now got an officer with a a metal detector wand and everything checking folks before they come in. So they, you know, he's definitely made sure that the staff and the performers and the audience members will be safe.

3 (20m 36s):
Because of course when you speak out like this, it does have a tendency to make you a little bit more of a target. Now my performers much more hopeful now, now that we've seen a lot of other folks coming to the rescue and the cav arriving. But before that, several of my girls are full-time entertainers just like I am. For instance, one of them is a non-binary person who's raising a child and they worry about how will I feed my kid if I lose this job? I have a black trans girl on my cast that's been with me for, we've started doing drag together a decade ago, and in case you don't know, it's really hard to get employed as a black trans person in the cell.

3 (21m 16s):
And so she's worried about her livelihood.

19 (21m 19s):
Hey, it's hot out here. A lot of these entertainers, this is what we do for a living. You are literally sustaining us and keeping us alive, y'all.

2 (21m 29s):
Do you think that drag is inherently political or do you think it has been politicized in the times we live in

3 (21m 35s):
Now? Drag is absolutely political. Walking out of the house in something that doesn't conform to your gender is a radical act. And drag queens have always been at the forefront. If you look all the way back to Stonewall, it was drag entertainers and trans people of color that led the rebellion that gave us the gay rights movement. So to me, yeah, drag is inherently always political.

2 (21m 56s):
So then why does this bill pass now in 2023?

3 (21m 60s):
To me, it's part of an overreaching attack on the queer community. That doesn't necessarily mean that I think that the majority of Tennesseans are on board with legislation like this. Even people that don't necessarily care about drag or trans people are far more interested in the economy, inflation, healthcare, education, crime, and all these actual real issues than they are about trying to chill free speech.

2 (22m 27s):
Do you think that people might leave Tennessee over the passage of a law like this? Have you considered leaving Tennessee for a state that might be friendlier?

3 (22m 34s):
I've heard a lot of my friends and family over the past several years who have made their way out of the state. Oh yeah. Many people moving to blue states. It's not uncommon. You know, many of us find the struggle in the burden to be too hard for me. I feel like somebody has to stay and fight. I grew up queer in Tennessee in a little bitty farm community and I barely survived it. And I feel the need to stay and try and make this state more accepting for all the queer youth that are gonna follow after me.

2 (23m 7s):
And so what is the plan going forward? Where do you go from here? What are you gonna do tonight?

3 (23m 12s):
We continue, we keep doing the same thing that we've been doing. We are in no violation of any laws and so we're continuing our shows just like we have been. I'm continuing to present authentically in public just like I have been. I made a very open statement at this past Sunday's brunch that

19 (23m 31s):
If someone attempts to use this law to tell me that I cannot march in the Pride Parade and Festival, I will not comply.

3 (23m 39s):
If they try and tell me or use the law to, to prevent me from going to Kroger and address

19 (23m 45s):
As my authentic non-binary self out in public, I will not comply

3 (23m 53s):
If they attempt to use the legislation to say it.

19 (23m 55s):
I can no longer welcome children into our all ages performance in this safe space. I will not come apply.

3 (24m 6s):
I mean if, if somebody has to be arrested in order for the A C L U to move the case forward. I've made it 43 years without a charge and I'm happy to catch one for a cause.

19 (24m 16s):
Respect my existence, my resistance

2 (24m 31s):
Slate. Kyle Bella Duval, thank you so much for taking the time for us today. This was really wonderful.

3 (24m 36s):
You are so welcome.

2 (24m 44s):
Today's episode was produced by Avishai Artsy and edited by Matthew Collette. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Paul Robert Mounty. I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.