0 (1s):
I rise in strong support of HRES 8 63 impeaching secretary Alejandro Mayorkas.

1 (8s):
Everyone knew the Republican-led vote to impeach the Homeland Security Secretary was political theater, so Republican Marjorie Taylor Green

0 (15s):
By criminals, gang members, terrorists, murderers,

1 (20s):
Rapists, Democrat Benny Thompson responded. Representative

2 (22s):
Margaret Taylor Green has raised doubts about nine 11. She also thinks Jewish space lasers cause wildfires.

1 (31s):
It would've been an ad homan and attack had he managed to get her name right,

2 (34s):
Margaret Taylor Green. This

1 (35s):
Shouldn't have mattered. Republicans were gonna vote along party lines done and dusted except three, voted not to Impeach

3 (43s):
Resolution is not adopted.

1 (45s):
A major embarrassment in a day full of them. Texas Governor Greg Abbott may have watched this mess on C-span. He says The Feds have lost control of the border and Texas should take over and he's forced a standoff that's coming up on today.

Vanta (58s):
Explained Support for this show comes from Vanta Dealing with loads of spreadsheets, juggling different tools and having to do manual security checks can be a headache. It's tough to keep up with the demands of today's compliance and security programs. Vanta is a trust management system that wants to simplify things and bring all your trust building efforts under one roof, making growth smoother for your whole org. You can get $1,000 off Vanta when you go to Vanta dot com slash explain. That's VAT a.com/explained. For $1,000 off Vanta,

6 (1m 46s):
Getting evicted can often be a life-changing event and some of us are more vulnerable than others.

7 (1m 51s):
Black women just typically have less money available to pay their rent. Less money to go around period. Really affects the chances of building longer term financial safety nets like an emergency fund for job losses.

6 (2m 6s):
What do the disproportionately high eviction rates for black women tell us about housing stability and how we can make it better. That's this week on the weeds. New episodes every Wednesday.

4 (2m 20s):
This is

8 (2m 20s):
Today explained. My name is Ali Hernandez. I'm a national reporter for the Washington Post focused on the border.

1 (2m 30s):
Ali is based in San Antonio. She's just back from a two week assignment in Eagle Pass, Texas, where the Texas National Guard and the Federal Border Patrol are fighting over who controls a park.

9 (2m 43s):
Governor Greg Abbott and Republicans have been accusing the Biden administration of not enforcing federal immigration laws. Were in this area of Eagle Pass in Shelby Park and in these 2.5 miles of River border Patrol can't enforce federal law well because they don't have access.

1 (2m 60s):
The state Federal showdown is happening even as people continue to seek refuge in Eagle Pass.

8 (3m 5s):
The first image that comes to mind is a, is a photo from Reuters from Go Nakamura, who I've actually worked with. And it's this photo of taken from the Mexican side of people about waste deep in the water wading through the Rio Grande and approaching the Texas River Bank or Eagle Passes Municipal Park, Shelby Park. And there being on the other side the sort of reams of of razor wire and and soldiers and Humvees there. It's quite an image because just a few years ago that River Bank was completely sort of clear. Yes, people would cross, but it was a site of recreation. It's a beautiful place actually, and it's kind of wild to see on the other side.

8 (3m 47s):
In the Mexican bank, they have this gorgeous river walk and it's something that the people of Eagle passive is fired to for a long time.

10 (3m 54s):
This is the entrance to Shelby Park and typically you wouldn't see fences up there, but the state put those up days ago and you can see there's also military Humvees and Texas National Guard members manning the gate. And that's what

8 (4m 7s):
Shelby Park is named after, actually a Confederate general who refused to surrender and cross into Mexico while burying, you know, the Confederate battle flag into the waters of the Rio Grande. And it's sort of that theater that theatrical, that drama is playing out once again in that same place with the shipping containers that are on the River Bank with the soldiers with, you know, what looks like a Ford operating base somewhere else in the world is sort of unfolding right there in Shelby Park, which is being controlled by Texas National Guard.

10 (4m 41s):
There's only Texas State personnel here, not a single border patrol agent on the,

1 (4m 45s):
We hear about places along the US Mexico border where there are floods of people coming through. But I'll admit Eagle Pass is not a city that I had heard much about until recently. Is this a place where you have huge numbers of migrants typically?

8 (4m 60s):
Historically, no. This is not a place where, where people cross, but this part of the river that is border in Guila state, which is reportedly one of the more safer states in Mexico to cross, has become a huge crossing point, an Eagle pass because in part, you know, the, the river is pretty wide and shallow in right by Shelby Park has become a staging area for the processing of thousands of migrants, unprecedented numbers of people crossing at the same time. You, it's not unusual to hear local officials talking about having watched a thousand people like a sort of wave of humanity just, you know, cross the river together.

11 (5m 38s):
One day last week they had in a single day 4,000 people cross illegally and Eagle pass 4,000 people in a town of 28,000 people. That's about 14% of the city's population.

1 (5m 51s):
In Eagle Pass, you have two groups that are claiming responsibility for securing the border, so to speak. You've got the Border Patrol, which is a federal force, and then you have the Texas National Guard. How do those two groups normally interact in Eagle Pass? Whose job is it to oversee migration

8 (6m 8s):
In the beginning? Aughts of Operation Lone Star, which is this border crackdown that Governor Abbott has undertaken since 2021. They actually worked together. Ah, pretty well.

1 (6m 18s):
Shocking. Yeah,

8 (6m 19s):
You're right. I mean, most people who do any kind of border law enforcement work together quite intimately. And so you had both of these agencies there keeping a lookout. Whereas Border Patrol are the only ones who actually have the jurisdiction and the immigration enforcement powers to detain people, to screen them for any number of immigration related processes and to take them into custody at their soft sided facility. National Guard can't put their hands on migrants unless they're, you know, trying to help or, or save them And. we had that tragic incident of that one National Guardsman who actually drowned after trying to help a couple of migrants. But yeah, no, this is sort of a no fuss kind of thing.

8 (6m 60s):
You know, border Patrol would welcome more boots on the ground. They're chronically asking for more help. You know, while Border Patrol is processing folks and running them through these screening processes, they're not watching the river. And so they would've, they welcomed National Guard watching the river and keeping an eye out. Now they're at odds because their leaders are at odds. Since 2021, governor Abbott has been beating this drum saying that the federal government is essentially abandoning its duty to protect Texas's borders.

12 (7m 33s):
The Biden administration's open border policies have created an open season for human traffickers, for drug suggs, for cartels and gangs because the federal government is failing to act to respond to these dangers. Texas is stepping up to secure the border and to keep our community safe.

8 (7m 58s):
So it started with, you know, sending state troopers down to the border. It started with sending national Guardsmen. This

12 (8m 4s):
Is necessary because more than 45,000 people have been apprehended crossing our border in just the last three weeks.

8 (8m 13s):
It's building state border wall. It was busing migrants from the NGOs to other cities across the country before

12 (8m 21s):
We begin busing illegal immigrants up to New York. It was just Texas and Arizona that bore the brunt of all of the chaos and all the problems that come with it. Now the rest of America is understanding exactly what is going on.

8 (8m 37s):
And then it was arresting migrants accused of trespassing. You need landowners to sign onto that. So they were getting permissions from various landowners, riverfront property man landowners to be able to arrest people and run them through a sort of specially created justice system. And so Abbott, little by little, has been like taking bites out of this apple until we get to this point where, you know, Shelby Park is a municipal park and they decided that, you know, the fact that Border Patrol was using this park as a staging area that was allowing thousands of people into the country, at least from their point of view, that they needed to shut that down.

13 (9m 14s):
So Texas has the legal authority to, to control ingress and egress into any geographic location in the state of Texas. And that authority is being asserted with regard to that park in Eagle Pass Texas to maintain operational control of it.

8 (9m 30s):
And basically the Biden administration asked the Supreme Court to intervene because of a confrontation that happened. We still like mulling through the details, but essentially that National Guard kept border patrol from entering the park in a moment of what they considered a medical emergency. That there were migrants that were in distress. Now if you ask, you know, Texas National Guard and and Texas State Troopers, they'll tell you that those, those people had already drowned. But it's the fact that border patrol couldn't go in when they wanted to and have access to the border that pushed the Biden administration to say, Hey Scotus, like this can't be happening. This is an, an enumerated power in the constitution that we have. Texas has no leg to stand on here

14 (10m 12s):
Tonight. A narrowly divided Supreme Court delivering a victory for the Biden administration clearing the way.

1 (10m 18s):
Can we talk a bit about how Abbott is framing this for his constituents, for the people of Texas? What, what is he saying when the Supreme Court says, Hey buddy, you, you gotta step aside?

8 (10m 27s):
Well, he invoked the constitution that Texas has a right to defend itself and that this constitutes the tide of humanity that's coming across the border constitutes an invasion

12 (10m 39s):
Because Joe Biden has completely abdicated and abandoned his responsibility to enforce the laws of the United States. I have used a clause in the Constitution that empowers states to defend themselves. It's Article one, section 10, clause three.

8 (10m 56s):
It's the kind of rhetoric that has been used by extremists throughout all of this. And so, you know, Abbott is saying, look, Texas is gonna do whatever it can to defend itself against what it fears is an invasion. And a lot of people in this state agree with him. While they might not agree specifically with his methods, the numbers are such and the images are such that, you know, it provokes concern whether you're a Republican democrat, whether you're progressive or a conservative sort of across the spectrum.

1 (11m 32s):
Where does this leave us? Where does this stand? Right? now

8 (11m 35s):
We're waiting on the courts to help us figure out, you know, who's actually in charge here and who has authorities as enumerated by the Constitution to continue to operate on the border. We have this border deal that came through over the weekend that Republican leaders are saying is dead on arrival. So we're just kind of in stasis the way that the border has been in stasis now for almost four decades. I mean, migration has changed. The hemisphere is on the move and it's not just folks from Central and South America, it's folks from all over the world. So the question is, how much work is the United States willing to put into working with Latin America to try and stanch some of these flows, which already has.

8 (12m 19s):
And conversations with Mexico has gotten a lot more aggressive with migrants and that's why you see the levels plummeting the way they have in January in terms of crossings. But you know, we're also entering the spring and then the summer when migration traditionally and historically has continued to increase. It's just a matter of waiting to see what happens in the courts, what happens in Congress and what the United States is able to do with its partners in Latin America.

1 (12m 54s):
Aise Hernandez in San Antonio coming up, a physical showdown, a legal showdown, and a governor of Texas who doesn't like to back down. And

15 (13m 2s):
What the Supreme Court said was that federal agents are allowed to cut these razor wire barriers. I mean, how is Abbott gonna prevent that? Is is is he gonna station armed guards at the barriers to prevent the federal officials from cutting them? I, I, I just dunno what that looks like.

Mint Mobile (13m 30s):
Support For today explained comes from Mint Mobile, the mobile company that knows you're kind of broke at the moment. Mint Mobile offers premium wireless phone plans starting at $15 a month. High speed 5G data, unlimited talk and text great rates whether it's just for you or for your family. Mint Mobile family plans start at just two lines, small family. You also don't need to get a new device when you buy a Mint Mobile plan. You can use your own phone. You keep your same number, you keep your contacts to get a new wireless plan for $15 a month and get the plan shipped to your door for free. You can go to Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. That's Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. You can cut your wireless bill to $15 a month by going to Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. Additional taxes, fees and restrictions do apply. See Mint Mobile for details.

Bombas (14m 24s):
Support for today. Explain comes from bomb bus when you're getting dressed, choosing your socks can set the tone for your whole day folks, is it gonna be a cozy one, an arch supporting one? A sad hole in the big toe one, a mismatched one. If you're looking to up your game, treat yourself to a new pair from Bombas. Bombas has plenty of warm pairs of socks and slippers to choose from. I don't personally wear socks, but Sarah Frank does. I've had a few pairs of Bombas for more than five years and what I'm most impressed with is they don't really show any signs of wear and tear. They hold up really well and are always comfortable. Ready to get comfy and give back? You can head over to bombas.com/explain and use the code explained for 20% off your first purchase. That's B-O-M-B-A s.com/explained and use the code explained at checkout

Indeed (15m 25s):
Support for today Explained comes from Indeed, indeed wants you to never again have a long drawn out hiring process to just find the right person. Indeed is a matching and hiring platform. It has this engine that's built to help you find quality candidates fast. According to a recent survey done by Indeed, 93% of employers agree that indeed delivers the highest quality matches compared to other job sites. Indeed can schedule screen message. How do they do? It Indeed says they leverage over 140 million qualifications and preferences every day. So their matching engine is constantly learning. Listeners of this show can get a $75 sponsored job credit to get your jobs more visibility at indeed.com/explained. You can go to indeed.com/explained and tell them you heard about Indeed on today. Explained indeed.com/today. Explained terms and conditions do apply it is today explained.

15 (16m 31s):
We're back with Ian Millhiser. He's a senior correspondent at Vox who writes about the justice system. His current beat is Texas versus America. So yes, there are three different, at least three different cases Right now that involve disputes between the federal government and the state of Texas about what our border policy should be. One of those cases recently went up to the Supreme Court, it's called Department of Homeland Security v Texas. Hmm. And that case involved these razor wire barriers that Texas constructed in order to try to keep immigrants from coming across the Mexican border.

15 (17m 11s):
The problem is that these razor wire borders also kept the border patrol out and there's a federal statute that says that the border patrol is allowed to enter into private land in order to enforce immigration laws. And so this case went up to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court said that the border patrol agents are allowed to cut these border wire barriers when it's necessary for them to do their job. The really disturbing thing about this case is that it was a five to four decision out the Supreme Supreme Court. One of the most well-established principles in immigration law is that the federal government has primacy. I mean in many cases states aren't even allowed to augment the federal government's enforcement and they certainly aren't allowed to do what Texas did here, which is erect a barrier that physically prevents federal agents from doing their job.

15 (18m 2s):
I mean this should have been a slam dunk nine nothing decision and it's, you know, fairly shocking that four justices agreed with taxes here.

1 (18m 12s):
Alright, so you said there's at least three cases, you've just given us one. Give us the next one.

15 (18m 18s):
Sure. So there's one other that deals with Texas Governor Greg Abbott's attempt to create physical barriers Hmm. That prevent immigrants from crossing the border. This involves a long chain of buoys.

18 (18m 33s):
The Department of Justice is suing the state of Texas and Governor Abbott over these red buoys. They claim the hard plastic balls tethered to the bottom of the river with heavy cable wire where installed without consulting the Army Corps of Engineers and it violates several international treaties.

15 (18m 51s):
The legal issue here is that there's a federal law which says that you can't erect a barrier or an obstruction to navigable waters without the federal government's permission. And so the question in this case is whether this particular stretch of the Rio Grande is a navigable waterway that can't have an obstruction in it. This particular case is Right, now it's going to be heard by the full United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. And like the thing you have to understand about the Fifth Circuit, this is the Trumpist court in the country. It has many, many Trump appointees. It is absolutely dominated not just by Republicans but by mago Republicans.

15 (19m 32s):
The Fifth Circuit is a rubber stamp Hmm. For pretty much anything that the right most right word extreme of the Republican Party wants to do. And so I'm anticipating that the Fifth Circuit is going to uphold this barrier. The question is what the Supreme Court is going to do.

1 (19m 49s):
Okay, so we're two for three. What's the third big case?

15 (19m 52s):
So the third big case, and I mean I've covered something like two dozen cases called United States v Texas in my career. Oh, the federal government and Texas are always sparring whenever the Biden administration does anything that Texas doesn't like Texas sues the Biden administration. So this is one of the many, many cases called United States v Texas. And what this last case is about is Texas passed a state law that essentially tries to turn Texas' state courts into immigration courts. It allows state judges to issue deportation orders. It allows the state government of Texas to then enforce those deportation orders. And that is a world of not allowed.

15 (20m 33s):
The reason why is that in a 1941 case called Heinz v Ditz, the Supreme Court said that the federal government must have primacy over all questions of foreign policy. And I mean the reason for that, that should be obvious. We, we, if we're one country, then the decisions that affect our entire country's foreign policy must be made by the national government that everyone gets to vote for and not the government of just one state that only people in that state get to vote for. Because when you're talking about foreign policy, it affects all of us.

1 (21m 5s):
Hey, so it seems like the thing these three cases have in common is that Texas does not want the federal government to have primacy over the border in Texas. It's like this is our land, it's become our problem. Can Texas, with cases like these three and others, can they get anything changed here? Like fundamentally changed?

15 (21m 26s):
I mean, quite possibly. I mean, what Texas is betting on, the only reason we're having this conversation is because of the Supreme Court that we have Right now. And because of the Fifth Circuit we've had Right. now, I mean again, Abbott's been able to get away with a lot of this because the federal courts in Texas will basically rubber stamp anything he wants to do. But eventually those cases get appealed to the Supreme Court. And what we are seeing now is I, I think every time there's a Democratic president in office, we're gonna see some red state engage in these kinds of shenanigans. When Obama was in office, the red state that did so, although it's no longer a red state, was Arizona. Arizona. This is a case called Arizona V. The United States passed a law called SB 10 70.

19 (22m 9s):
The law requires police here in Arizona to question anyone. They have a reasonable suspicion may be illegal.

20 (22m 15s):
Nothing really is going to change other than the fact that we come across a illegal alien that doesn't have a state charge. Now we can arrest them and book 'em into the jail or turn them over to

15 (22m 27s):
Ice. And this case went up to the Supreme Court. The intention behind this case was to get what was then a moderately conservative Supreme court to walk away from what it said in 1941 in the Hines of i David of its case, and to walk away from the principle that the federal government is in charge of immigration. And rather than walk away from it, the Supreme Court reaffirmed it.

21 (22m 49s):
The court struck down three of the laws, four provisions that subject undocumented immigrants to criminal penalties for seeking work or failing to carry immigration papers at all times. In each case, the majority said those powers rest with the federal government, not with Arizona.

15 (23m 6s):
But since that decision was handed down, justice Kennedy, who was in the majority left the court, was replaced by the much more conservative Brett Kavanaugh, just as Ruth Bader Ginsburg died. She was in the majority, she was replaced by the also very conservative Amy Coney Barrett. And so I think what Texas and Greg Abbott are betting here is that the law will change because the personnel of the Supreme Court has changed. That they can re-litigate Hines, they can re-litigate Arizona, but they can get a different outcome this time because there's different justices.

1 (23m 38s):
So Governor Greg Abbott is banking on the composition of the Supreme Court having changed the court having become more conservative. But, but Ian, in the case with the razor wire, the Department of Homeland Security versus Texas, the, the Supreme Court overturned the Fifth Circuit that sided with Texas. So is Abbott wise to bank on the Supreme Court siding with him if they didn't first time around?

15 (24m 3s):
So I mean, I think that the decision in the razor wire case is a hopeful sign for the federal government that Hines and Arizona, these two longstanding precedents I mentioned, probably are gonna still have some life. I mean, it was a five to four decision. It was the three Democratic appointees plus Chief Justice Roberts and Amy Coney Barrett, who formed the majority there. But like the one data point we have Right now is this razor wire case. And that does suggest that Abbott may lose his bet here.

1 (24m 34s):
Okay. And so if he does, now you're not a Texas reporter, but you do know Abbott. If Abbott loses, is he gonna do what the Supreme Court says he is gotta do?

15 (24m 43s):
It's a good question. I I mean the other thing that I think that Abbott is banking on here is that he thinks he has the public on his side and the polls suggests he's right. I mean the, the, the polls suggests that a lot of people are upset by the situation at, at the border. And so I think he thinks he can get away with it even if he, what he is doing is illegal. But you know, you could conceivably see a situation if the Supreme Court strikes down this deportation law where Abbott tries to put someone on a plane and fly them to another country even though he's not legally allowed to do so. And then, I mean, I don't know what happens in that case like the federal government. Yeah,

1 (25m 19s):
You do, you do know what happens, right? Because have, haven't governors defied the Supreme Court before what happened? Well,

15 (25m 24s):
I mean there are examples of it.

22 (25m 27s):
Whenever normal agencies prove inadequate to the task and it becomes necessary for the executive branch of the federal government to use its powers and authority to uphold federal courts, the president's responsibility is inescapable.

15 (25m 45s):
Ike sent troops to Little Rock, Arkansas there, it's after the governor of Arkansas refused to obey Brown v Board of Education.

22 (25m 52s):
This became necessary when my proclamation of ydi was not observed and the obstruction of justice still continues.

15 (26m 2s):
So if Abbott defies a federal court order, president Biden has any number of tools at his disposal up to and including sending the US Marines after Abbott. The question is, I mean, if Abbott is right, and I'm not sure that he isn't right, that the politics are on his side here. I, I mean, sending troops to Texas is a big step. And I don't know that Biden is gonna have the political stature to take that step, even if it's something that's legally within his his rights. The other big immigration story Right now is that Democrats and Republicans in the Senate just negotiated this big border package that's pretty draconian. I mean it involves the authority to shut down the border entirely.

15 (26m 46s):
And Biden came out right away and said, yeah, that

23 (26m 48s):
Bill of the law today, I'd shut down the border Right now and fix it quickly.

15 (26m 52s):
He agrees that there's a crisis here that needs to be addressed and that needs to be addressed legislatively. We need to make our immigration laws harsher in order to deal with the situation. But even though this bill was negotiated, you've got a lot of Republicans in Congress who aren't just saying they, they don't wanna pass it, but they're saying specifically, we don't wanna pass it 'cause we think it'll help Joe Biden get reelected. So the game that we're seeing here is we've got this situation at the border that many, many people are upset with, but the Republican party, including Greg Abbott, they care more about making Joe Biden look bad, either because the crisis continues or because Joe Biden it can be painted as making it worse because he's interfering with Greg Abbott's illegal efforts to prevent people from crossing the border.

15 (27m 44s):
It's all political theater. I mean, there, there is a bill that could potentially solve this problem. It has already been negotiated. And again, like as soon as Biden says he wants to sign it, Republicans are saying, we don't wanna do that because we don't wanna help you get reelected.

1 (28m 1s):
That was v's. Ian Millhiser. Today's show was produced by Amanda Luellen and edited by Amman El Sadi. It was engineered by David Herman and it was fact checked by Laura Bullard and Hady Mawajdeh. Thanks Hady. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.