4 (1s):
This episode is supported by hm a VPN if you've ever sheepishly asked a barista, what's the Wi-Fi password? You need a VPN? Because if you're browsing and clicking and streaming without one, your data is not as secure as it should be if you want a fast reliable VPN that doesn't log your data as you use it. You've got to check out hm a VPN. Hm a VPN encrypts your connection and protects your information from hackers. So your online comings and goings take protected and private no matter what it works across every I see you used to fiddle around on the internet and allows you to connect up to five gadgets at once. This isn't rocket science. Hm a VPN will keep you safe online plain and simple to sign up for hm a VPN now for 75% off go to hm a VPN.com deal.

4 (51s):
Our noon systems are like super powers, but even they need support as McCall extra-strength combines broccoli and beta glucans to help yourself detoxify. Learn more at ethnic all.com. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose treat cure or prevent any disease. It's explained. I'm Sean Rama's firm on Tuesday show. We talked about how American democracy at least at. The federal level is kind of having a legitimacy crisis right now. The media has called the presidential race for Joe Biden as you might recall the world seems ready to move on and accept him all the while the outgoing guys being a sore loser.

4 (1m 37s):
Not conceding not a great look but out in California direct democracy taking policy directly to the people appears to be working just fine depending on how you feel about labor laws.

2 (1m 49s):
Well, as you know, California leads the way for the rest of the

4 (1m 52s):
country Carolyn Sayid, she's a business reporter for the San Francisco

2 (1m 55s):
Chronicle. But this particular measure has National implications not just for everybody who uses Uber Lyft and or - which are the companies that are most affected by it basically for the future. ER of

4 (2m 7s):
work on November 3rd Californians voted on proposition

2 (2m 11s):
22. This is sort of a referendum on gig work on what people think about this new mode of work where you're freelance. You're an independent contractor. You do not have an employer and you do not have the benefits and protections of

4 (2m 25s):
employment but the story starts much earlier.

2 (2m 29s):
Yes, I would say it started two years ago. When the California Supreme Court issued a unanimous ruling in a case called Dynomax the California. Supreme Court has made a decision which could ultimately blow up the gig economy as we know it particularly Rideshare companies ruling on Monday in a lawsuit the court decided to limit businesses from classifying workers as independent contractors. They came up with a very simple ABC

4 (2m 55s):
test. It's a three-part

2 (2m 57s):
test for when you're an employee and when you're an independent contractor and then under that test most people would be considered employees if caught Say they do work under companies control point B if they do work Central to a company's business, but you have seen if they don't have their own Independent Business doing that

4 (3m 16s):
work, you know, this is a very streamlined simple test the

2 (3m 20s):
California legislature took that Supreme Court case in codified it in a law called a B5 that took effect on January 1st of this year.

4 (3m 31s):
And was 85 meant to police Uber Lyft door - these sort of big companies that have become so essential to our daily lives,

2 (3m 41s):
maybe five never mentioned those companies specifically or any company specifically but yes, it was very widely assumed that those companies were in his crosshairs, but they aren't the only ones. I mean there is a huge amount of low wage service works like janitorial Child Care home health aides construction that also a are set up as independent contractor jobs and a B5 makes it more likely that those jobs also can be reclassified as employees.

4 (4m 10s):
But nonetheless Uber Lyft door - those types of companies took this kind of personally.

2 (4m 15s):
Absolutely. Yes. That's a good way to put it they took it personally. Yeah big work

4 (4m 18s):
companies fiercely opposed assembly Bill 5 saying it would topple their business model and destroy the flexibility their businesses and workers rely on

2 (4m 27s):
Rideshare companies like uber and Lyft take their fight against it to the With box fighting back with proposition

4 (4m 32s):
22. What was the ballot measure about specifically

2 (4m 37s):
so the ballot measure was to give them an exemption from a B5 the ballot measure says that in perpetuity the drivers and Couriers for app based on demand services are independent contractors at the same time. It has some sweeteners the drivers and Couriers would be entitled to some benefits nowhere near the full range of benefits you get as a real employee but some and then it also Oh allows the companies to exert a little more control over them with more training which they had wanted to do, but couldn't because it before because they didn't want to risk being reclassified as employers

4 (5m 11s):
and just to be totally clear. Why didn't they want these drivers get Workers essential workers even to be employees.

2 (5m 19s):
Well, the bottom line is that that would be incredibly expensive for them. It would cost them literally hundreds of millions of dollars a year to cover such employee. Benefits and rules such as minimum wage overtime expense reimbursement workers compensation or hold the range of payroll taxes if they had to turn those workers into employees

4 (5m 44s):
and how did these huge companies Uber Lyft door - sort of sell this ballot measure to

2 (5m 51s):
Californians. I'm a busy single mom and the flexibility of at base driving works for my family. They spent two hundred and five point seven million dollars to sell it which is the high watermark for spending on any ballot measure in California history and I think Nationwide it's a high water mark, so they sold it aggressively you could not turn on your TV without seeing a commercial for it this started as a new way to earn a little extra. Even if you fast-forward through commercials, you would be fast forwarding through five or six of them

4 (6m 23s):
at Bay. Food delivery saved me. Why'd your as we know it is at risk.

2 (6m 28s):
You could not go to your mailbox without seeing it bulging with glossy mailers about this up to 90% of app-based driving jobs could disappear. And that's when I forced the shutdown of at bay services here

4 (6m 41s):
prices could increase 25 to a hundred percent. That's why I support prop 22.

2 (6m 46s):
You couldn't turn on any of the company's apps without getting in at messages about it. You got text you got robocalls. They were extremely aggressive in promoting this to Californians

4 (6m 58s):
Yes on Prop 22, please join me in voting. Yes on 22. It will save hundreds of thousands of jobs.

2 (7m 4s):
Please vote Yes on

4 (7m 6s):
22 What were these companies like uber Lyft and door - telling their drivers their delivery people

2 (7m 13s):
they started putting messages in the apps to drivers that were like scary like prop 22 could pass and you could lose this job type thing. That's not an exact quote but less weeks or so. They're starting to me a message you're saying click here if you support prop 22, and then if you didn't click on that there was another thing saying or click here to learn more about it.

4 (7m 31s):
But wait what happened when you click now if you click now,

2 (7m 34s):
there wasn't an option to click. No, there was just an option to play. Yes, I support 22 or tell me more about 22. There was no options to say I don't support it. The drivers were afraid that if they didn't click. Yes that the company was keeping track of them and would you know have retribution against tough? But there was no proof of that.

4 (7m 52s):
Wow, but that is some next-level propaganda.

2 (7m 56s):
Yep, and they did pretty much convinced drivers that this that it was in their interest to vote for prop 22 their own surveys, which of course we have to take with a grain of salt but there. Pretty much all we have showed that most drivers supported prop 22.

4 (8m 13s):
I imagine you spoke to drivers in your reporting. What what did you hear from them?

2 (8m 17s):
Well drivers were very split on this issue. I'm asking you to vote. No on Prop 22 because it would allow Uber and Lyft to pay us less than minimum

4 (8m 25s):
wage prop 22 man. That shit is the past need to vote Yes on Prop 22. I need this company to understand we have right here

2 (8m 35s):
really not independent contractors when you Gets the terms that we

4 (8m 39s):
have not looking out here trying to be like a political motherfucker or anything like that. But real slow if this shit doesn't pass man, I don't know a lot of us are going to be able to keep driving and California and shit, you know what I mean?

2 (8m 52s):
It's not that drivers or you know, a monolithic being that all vote and think the same way drivers fall into different categories, you know about eighty percent of drivers work very very part time many of them were fewer than 10 hours a week and they're doing it, you know as a Dig in between other things maybe they have another job maybe their teacher making income in the summer. Maybe there's student. So this is not their career their full time Endeavor. This is just to make ends meet make some extra money, but about 20% of drivers for them. This is their full-time

4 (9m 24s):
job Igor trout has been driving for Uber for two years. He often Works 10 hours a day on the road because he's got a family to support I wouldn't only here and I have no other

2 (9m 36s):
jobs they basically Any of them fit the profile of the Classic Taxi Driver many of them are immigrants with something maybe somewhat limited English proficiency. This is what they do and they do it 10 to 12 hours a day six or seven days a week. So for those drivers it might have made more sense to become an employee and get more benefits and

4 (9m 59s):
protections. Well needs read in Poland course. I have no benefits so fun. And was that what the counter-argument sounded like to prop 22 as well, you know, we need to protect workers rights here.

2 (10m 10s):
Yes. Absolutely. That was exactly the counter-argument taking California for a ride.

4 (10m 16s):
No sick leave. No workers. Come no unemployment benefits. Vote. No on the deceptive Uber Lyft door - prop 22 one ride, California doesn't want to take

2 (10m 28s):
the opposition was very very heavily run by organized labor. Which raised about Million dollars to oppose prop 22 which is not chump change in any ordinary ballot measure that would be a very respectable amount of money. But of course they were outspent by a margin of 10 to 1 nevertheless. They made a strong case with many voters

4 (10m 49s):
for years over in this have been taken advantage of drivers like me over liberal proposition 22 for one reason to make a handful of Silicon Valley Executives richer don't be full stand with drivers and both no on proposition

2 (11m 2s):
22. There were a couple of unsaid Said agenda items there too, which is that the Unions would love to see the drivers become employees. So they could organize them and the Unions would hate to see gig work spread to companies that currently have unionized employees.

4 (11m 18s):
Okay. So what happens on the like on November 3rd with all of the nation's attention on Prop 22 and not anything else that was happening on November 3rd, what was the

2 (11m 27s):
result? So the result was a resounding victory for prop 22. So yes for prop 22 over 50 Percent saying yes check mark there and it will take effect in mid-December after certification by the secretary of state which is just the normal process in California.

4 (11m 43s):
It's a victory for Uber Lyft or - and all the

2 (11m 46s):
rest. That is correct. And yes on 22 means that drivers in couriers will stay independent contractors. They will not become employees. There is no path for them to become employees. The only way that anything in prop 22 can be changed is with a 7/8 vote of the legislature. ER which is an incredibly High Benchmark that is almost never passed for anything except. You know, let's say Happy Mother's Day or something. So yes on 22 means no to employment for the drivers

4 (12m 17s):
and Happy Mother's day and happy Mother's Day. Quick break, then we'll talk about what prop 22 means for drivers and riders in California and across the rest of the country.

4 (12m 57s):
Support for the show today comes from the New Yorker in print and online The New Yorker stands apart for its commitment to truth and accuracy quality writing and compelling reporting and storytelling. I remember this one story. I read the New Yorker called. The really big one is one of those articles you just finished reading it and send it to everyone, you know, especially the people, you know who live on the west coast because it was about the earthquake that's been promised to destroy the West Coast for generations and When I was says it's going to be in California, California, California, but this one was was more. So focused on the Pacific Northwest and I think this article was so good. It went on to like when a Pulitzer Prize and all that stuff anyway for a limited time.

4 (13m 38s):
You can get just 12 weeks of the New Yorker for just $6. That's a savings of 50% plus listeners of today explained will receive an exclusive tote bag for free. Just go to New York or.com. Explain. That's n ew y OU. You are ke are.com explain to get 12 weeks of the New Yorker for just six dollars and free tote bag New Yorker.com explained. Support for the show today comes from Babel because you probably don't know how to say grapefruit in French.

4 (14m 19s):
Do you know how to say grapefruit in French? It's pumped loose. I believe I hope I did okay with the pronunciation but you know Babble will teach you how to say a lot more than grapefruit in French so that when and if there's a time where we can all travel to France again, you don't just have to like walk into a cafe and go, you know pomplamoose you could You can say, you know, I would like a pomplamoose in French. I don't know. I forget how to say that sorry Canadian education system. Anyway, right now Babel is offering our listeners today explain listeners, three months free with the purchase of a three-month subscription with the promo code explain visit Babble.com and use the promo code explained on your three-month subscription.

4 (15m 2s):
That's be a BBE l.com to use the promo code explained Babble language for

3 (15m 10s):
life

4 (15m 22s):
So Carolyn prop 22 goes into effect in December. Let's start with the positives here. You mentioned that workers will get some protections what

2 (15m 33s):
kinds so prop 22 guarantees and earnings floor the minimum amount that workers can make they can make more than this but during the time that they are what's called engaged meaning After they've accepted a ride or delivery until it's completed. They're guaranteed to make a hundred and twenty percent of the minimum wage on an hourly basis and to get 30 cents a mile. They are not covered though for the time that they're waiting in between rides or deliveries, which can be up to a third of their time in addition. They have the ability to get a health care stipend if they work enough hours if they work at least 25 hours a week.

2 (16m 13s):
They can get a healthcare stipend of about three hundred and sixty dollars. Is if they work at least 15 hours a week, they can get a healthcare stipend of about half that but there's several gotchas about that Healthcare stipend that how they qualify for it. So, we're not sure yet. How many drivers will actually get it.

4 (16m 29s):
So it sounds like what you're basically having here is some worker Protections in place of real organized labor and sort of drivers having the bargaining power that they might have under say a union or I don't know. Um More powerful labor

2 (16m 48s):
agreement exactly. They have no bargaining power and the companies have extent at least lift his extended an olive branch and said that it wants to sit down with unions and talk about some kind of representation for the drivers, but it would not have any bargaining power over wages

4 (17m 6s):
and you reminded us at the top of the show that as goes California. So often goes the rest of the nation. What are the implications here for Uber Lyft door - Postmates all the rest across the rest of the country.

2 (17m 20s):
Well, all those companies would dearly like to see similar structures to prop 22 in every other state without having to go and spend hundreds of millions of dollars in every other state. What they would like to do is shop this to State legislatures and get this enshrined at that level, which would be a cheaper way to go

4 (17m 38s):
ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to Uber Technologies Q3 2020 earnings conference

2 (17m 44s):
call Uber and Lyft have both have had. Earnings calls within the past week since those are the only two public

4 (17m 50s):
companies or nonprofits Mission 22, which were happy to say past with a healthy margin in California. We feel strongly that this is the right approach. We should be adding benefits to Gig work to make it better not getting rid of it altogether in favor of an employment only system. That's why going forward. You'll see us more about we advocate for new laws like prop 22, which we believe strike the balance between preserving the flexibility that His value so much while adding protections to that all get Workers deserve.

2 (18m 22s):
However, there are countervailing forces as we've discussed as we discussed unions heavily opposed this at the national level president-elect Biden and vice president-elect Harris opposed prop 22, very strongly opposed it

4 (18m 37s):
and and we should note vice president Harris, of course

2 (18m 40s):
from California from California as a side note her brother-in-law happens to be the general counsel of uber but but that's probably too much of a rabbit hole to go down.

4 (18m 50s):
Wow, so it's going to be an interesting things is gonna be an interesting Thanksgiving.

2 (18m 53s):
Yep. So president-elect Biden and vice president-elect Harris opposed prop 22, they support something called the pro act which has been which was actually first put forward by Bernie Sanders and is supported by most of the Democratic senators, which have basically would enshrine some of the same framework as a bee. I've California's dig work law at the federal level. We don't know what's going to happen with Congress at this moment. We're with the Senate at this moment. So we don't know if that will get any traction or not. But in vitamins campaign plank, he had a lengthy section talking about worker Miss classification being a real issue and that he was going to focus on it and there's many things he can do even without the Senate he can direct the nlrb to focus on it.

2 (19m 45s):
He can direct Department of Labor, he can Institute to Stronger penalties for workers classification and that's all code work for clamping down on gig work and turning more workers into employees rather than independent contractors.

4 (20m 4s):
We've been talking a lot about these companies and the drivers, but what does this decision mean for the Riders are things about to get more expensive cheaper

2 (20m 14s):
do we know? So during the campaign Uber and Lyft said to customers that rides and deliveries could cost more and be less available if this passes so now it's past so one would assume that would mean everything's the same

4 (20m 30s):
but you know, obviously it's very important that we maintain the independent contractor status. It will likely will result in that probably a five percent type increase, you know, in order to cover the incremental whether it be minimums whether it be incremental the fits and we do expect that much of it. We pass

2 (20m 48s):
along they both revealed in their earnings calls that in fact rides might cost a little more because they are going to have more expenses now and they plan to pass those along to writers.

4 (21m 0s):
But again, we start said earlier we do believe that it'll be manageable and we don't believe based on the models. We run that you will have to aterial impact in terms of

2 (21m 10s):
demand which is code for that. They won't be yuge, you know that they might be less than say five. Sin, because they have lots of you know, algorithms and metrics to know what kind of price increases the market can bear but yes rides might be a little more costly now

4 (21m 27s):
what in California learned throughout this process. I mean, they tried to regulate a thing almost immediately that set off this ballot measure. There was this Mass propaganda campaign waged on drivers on employees on gig workers. As they're called and then these huge companies got their way.

2 (21m 51s):
Well, I would say that many people in California learn something we pretty much know here, which is that you can buy a new law if you have enough money. Our initiative system allows anybody with Deep Pockets to go directly to the voters and make a case to them. It was supposed to be enabled Grassroots democracy, but it is really over the years turned into a you know, you pay to play System where the more money you have the more you can influence the agenda to be to your liking.

4 (22m 43s):
Carolyn Syed is a business reporter at the San Francisco Chronicle. You can find and support her work at SF Chronicle.com.