0 (1s):
It's been a week

2 (5s):
When I went in, he shut the door. I noticed Bobby angle, who is the head of Mr. Trump's security detail, sitting in a chair, looking somewhat discombobulated, a little lost,

0 (15s):
Never met. Bobby angle can relate though. We are living in worrisome times, the economy, the guns, the pandemic, the war, the X precedent grabbed the steering wheel. Allegedly it's affecting us. We are discombobulated and a little loss, also anxious, depressed, not sleeping and not doing so well. Addressing it. The national Institute of mental health says one in five Americans suffers from a mental illness coming up on today's explained the doctor wants known as the country psychiatrist on what we are getting so wrong about mental health and how to fix it

Google Safety Center (1m 0s):
For over 20 years, Google has been helping protect Americans from cybersecurity threats, from turning two-step verification on by default for 150 million people, which adds an additional layer of account security with a single tap to protecting news sites and human rights organizations with project shield. Google is building advanced technologies that raise the bar for the entire industry and help make the whole internet safer for everyone. Learn more@safety.google,

Coca-Cola (1m 30s):
The Coca-Cola company, Keurig Dr. Pepper and PepsiCo are bringing consumers more choices with less sugar than ever before. In fact, nearly 60% of beverages sold contain zero sugar. Visit balance us.org to learn more

0 (1m 52s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. There is a difference between anxiety and worry and discombobulation, and what's called an SMI or a serious mental illness. So maybe during the pandemic, you realized it was too much and you needed a therapist and maybe it was hard to find, but if you have an SMI, you've known that for a long time, because you've likely been dealing with our broken system for years. Right before bossy, ECPI found herself navigating that system. She was at a high point in her career. She landed a spot on HBO's Def poetry jam.

5 (2m 32s):
I fear that you will never sleep that like these fingers Wong and to Phantom to hold rings or commitments, you will inherit your mother's insomnia,

0 (2m 41s):
Energy, creativity, and talent drove posse. ECPI also the insomnia.

5 (2m 46s):
So think you deserve more than this threat of me as your mother still attempting her own world of color things, but child just promise me that you will be eventually I need your possibility. Like I need a night worth sleeping for thanks.

0 (3m 3s):
Her insomnia was part of a mental illness and she'd spend years navigating a healthcare system that even doctors say is profoundly broken buzzy. ECPI had these fixes for when things got dicey with her mind.

5 (3m 16s):
One thing that I realized is that I had figured out ways to make the way my brain works, work for me, meaning that when I have the energy, I would do all of the things. When I started to get low energy, I would kind of disappear, not go out as much and use that time to just get my energy back. And I was able to do that because I wasn't in school. I was an artist. I didn't have a set schedule,

0 (3m 49s):
But the fixes were temporary.

5 (3m 51s):
I was on tour with Def poetry jam. And when I was on tour, no matter what I had to be backstage by 7:00 PM. And I had to be onstage by eight and I had to be awake at X hour for rehearsal, or to get on a plane or to get on a bus, to get to the next city. And I wasn't able to set my schedule around my moods. And I realize these coping mechanisms were completely impossible on tour. And I started getting really withdrawn and I stopped eating, stopped sleeping, and I just stopped talking to everyone.

5 (4m 30s):
And a lot of them were like, okay. So, you know, the fame was getting to her, stuff like that. And I didn't know what was going on. I just know that this way that I usually feel for a couple of weeks, couple of months was just sort of here. And I couldn't pretend myself out of it. One night in Chicago, I couldn't stop crying. I was getting myself up off the hotel floor and I walked out of the hotel to get to the theater and I didn't have a coat on. And it was freezing winter in Chicago, January in Chicago. I give backstage and I'm trying to give myself this pep talk like you can do this, like just wash your face, put your makeup on, put your costume on.

5 (5m 17s):
You're going to be great. You're going to be fine. And I just couldn't stop crying. And I somehow ended up underneath the sink in my dressing room, in the fetal position, just bawling my eyes out, just crying. And the stage manager, Alice came into my dressing room. She literally crawled underneath the sink with me and like held me. And she said, if you don't get help, you're going to die. I had never thought of it in those terms, but I immediately knew what that meant

0 (5m 56s):
When she was 27. She got her first diagnosis, bipolar two disorder.

5 (6m 1s):
I had no idea what it was never heard of it. I knew I wasn't bipolar because I knew what bipolar was and that, that wasn't me. And I remember telling him I can't have that because I'm black. I was like, I've never heard of it. And I've never heard of any black person with it. So it's something else.

0 (6m 21s):
What was your understanding of what bipolar was that made you so sure you didn't have it?

5 (6m 26s):
It was, it was people who were crazy. They were, you know, found walking the street naked and all these stereotypical iterations of what a crazy person was like. Cause when I was diagnosed, I didn't tell my parents for another five or six months. And I remember my father going and doing research and looking at the symptoms and he couldn't, he could identify each symptom from me growing up.

5 (7m 6s):
And I remember him feeling so guilty about not being able to do anything. And I was like, dad, you don't know what you don't know. Like there's no way for you to have spotted that because no one understood who I was or what I was going through. And you know, me dropping out of college and suddenly moving to New York, like all that stuff made sense to him, but it didn't make sense to him at the time. And my mother took it much harder. She, I think was very afraid of what it would mean for the rest of my life and how people would treat me and what it would mean for people to know.

5 (7m 50s):
Like she was very adamant that I don't tell anybody about it, but I see that, that, that was, that came from fear.

0 (7m 58s):
Can you walk me through what the treatment was like when you first got that diagnosis?

5 (8m 3s):
You know, I was able to call Dr. Goodman and say, this one, isn't working. It makes me feel this. And he would talk to me like I call him on like Thanksgiving and he would take my call and he would walk me through and I just felt like I felt cared for. And that definitely helps the way that I approached my own illness. And I think that had, I run into doctors that cheated me more like a statistic or made me feel more like just somebody on a conveyor belt. And they would forget me. As soon as I walked out the door, it would have been much more difficult to accept my diagnosis. And it would've been a lot more difficult to accept my life afterwards.

5 (8m 44s):
Plus

0 (8m 44s):
She out of genuine curiosity, what kind of insurance did you have

5 (8m 48s):
At that time? I had whatever the theater actors, insurance was. That's how I them, but because I wasn't working, I lost that insurance and all the money that I made on tour. I started paying them out of pocket and I of course ran out of money and I had to make a decision between therapy and medication and wow, I hated medication. So I, I chose therapy and stopped taking my medication and ended up in the hospital November of 2004. And then I stopped taking medication and stopped going to therapy for years.

5 (9m 31s):
A really good friend of mine died of cancer. And I wanted to, I just wanted to feel it. I didn't want to feel like medication was making me take it well, I didn't want to take it well, that started a spiral that lasted from 2005 to 2010 when I was hospitalized for the second time. Now I'm back in Maryland, you know, living with my, with my family and I currently have Maryland Medicaid, but Maryland Medicaid. It's great. I I've never felt as though I wasn't getting good help or good treatment or medical care because of it. And part of the reason why we stayed in Maryland instead of going back to New York was because the healthcare system here, the state healthcare system here is much better than it is anywhere else in the country.

5 (10m 22s):
I believe I'm the healthiest I've ever been in my life. 2017 was my last serious depressive episode. One of my greatest victories is that about a year ago, I got a credit card for the first time. Like I want to say 20 years because I would just use them constantly. I'm very irresponsible and reckless when it comes to money and being able to get one and to have one and to use it in a way that normal people quote unquote, would use it. That's been huge for me.

5 (11m 3s):
The victories are the things that kind of keep me going because I want more of them. So much of mental health is focused on the illness and not what happens during treatment and what happens after treatment. And I think that's more important to know what it looks like to live with as opposed to constantly being reminded of what it is to suffer from.

0 (11m 33s):
Bossy. No, she's lucky that she got the care she needed to treat her mental illness. Why does so many people not? We have an answer coming up.

3 (11m 49s):
This is advertiser content brought to you by harken Chardonnay. Hi, I'm Amanda, an audio engineer here at box creative. I enjoy wine. And now that it's warming up, I want something I can serve that goes with the weather. So I called up an expert to help me make sense of the wine. I like now to find more ISIS, Daniel who calls herself

8 (12m 10s):
The millennials Psalm, and I am a Somalia wine content creator and wine influencer

3 (12m 16s):
ISIS. What can you tell me about my current favorite wine Chardonnay?

8 (12m 20s):
Chardonnay is special because no matter what your pallet is, there is an example of that in a Chardonnay. So you have that buttercream cheese and maybe you're getting some Oak where you have the Nella. Chardonnay is the best answer to me. When you're talking about having lobster dishes, shellfish dishes, anything that you want to add butter to pastas, things like that. Definitely a buttery Chardonnay will be a great fit for that dish,

3 (12m 45s):
Oak butter, vanilla. Got it. So is that what I asked for at a restaurant Somalis make me nervous.

8 (12m 52s):
So if you've had a wine from home that you are looking for at a restaurant, describe it. I had a Chardonnay and it tastes like butter cream cheese. It also had tropical notes because when you are able to bring those details, your som will be able to provide a wine that is similar. If not almost exact, if it's going to be the same wine, never know, right?

Harken Wines (13m 13s):
A great place to start, just ask for harken barrel fermented Chardonnay from California. Harken goes the extra step with a hundred percent barrel fermentation to create its creamy texture and rich flavors. Learn more and find a bottle of harken near you@harkenwine.com.

Bleecker Street (13m 31s):
This podcast is supported by Bleecker street, presenting the upcoming film, Mr. Malcolm's list. It's 18, 18, and London's most eligible bachelor. Jeremy Malcolm has a list of requirements for a bride after failing to make the cut. Julia fissile weight seeks revenge by convincing her friend Selena Dolton to play the role of his ideal match. But as Selena starts having feelings of her own for Mr. Malcolm getting even starts getting complicated, starring Frida Pinto shall be dura SU Oliver, Jackson, Cohen and Ashley Park with Zoe, Ashton and Theo. James, Mr. Malcolm's list. Now playing only in theaters

0 (14m 20s):
One evening in may, 2015, Dr. Thomas insult was in Portland, Oregon giving a presentation to a room full of mental health advocates. He's a neuroscientist and a psychiatrist. And for 13 years he was the country psychiatrist. That's what people sometimes call the director of the national Institute of mental health. Anyway, he's presenting to this group and

10 (14m 41s):
One of the parents got up and said, you know, you just don't get it. I have a 23 year old son with schizophrenia and he's been hospitalized five times, been incarcerated three times to make two suicide attempts. He's currently homeless. Our house is on fire. And you're talking to us about the chemistry of the paint. I was defensive. I mean, at first I thought, well, you know, it takes a long time tedious. This research is a marathon. It's not a sprint and we need to know much more before we can do much better.

10 (15m 22s):
But I also recognized that he was speaking for a lot of people who had that same feeling that this wasn't just a science problem. This was an urgent public health crisis that didn't just require that we know more, but that we do better with what we know right now. And that urgency is not the way we do science generally

0 (15m 50s):
At Dr. Insoles direction. The Nim H and it's billions of dollars in government funding had pivoted to focus less on behavioral research and more on genetic research into what causes illnesses like schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. And they made some stunning scientific advances while looking into genes. The problem was Dr. Insel started to realize those advances weren't doing very much at all. For patients science was looking for causes millions of people. He says we're suffering the effects.

11 (16m 23s):
17 years ago, the federal government established a research project with the ambitious goal of mapping the entire human genome.

10 (16m 31s):
When I arrived at NMH in 2002, the big breakthrough was the completion of the human genome project. About six months later,

11 (16m 40s):
Genetic mapping researchers know more than ever about the hereditary influences behind cancer and heart disease and diabetes, and many other conditions.

10 (16m 48s):
The area was looking at that new map we had of the human genome and saying, how can we use that to understand not only the inheritance and the biology, but the opportunity to identify new targets for treatment,

11 (17m 5s):
The scope and long-term potential. The human genome project has been compared to the Apollo project.

10 (17m 11s):
Sometimes that works really well. And in the case of autism, I think we were able to find a range of new targets. Some of which are now leading to new treatments. What was surprising in the studies of the anxiety disorders that may be highly heritable or bipolar illness, which is more heritable than hypertension or diabetes, is that we found lots of signals, but no kind of no treatment targets. The signals we found were signals about risk. And there were so many of them actually, rather than finding just a few, we found so many each of which contributed a very small amount.

10 (17m 53s):
So was that a mistake to go after that? Well, of course not the whole nature of science would reasonably call it research as we don't know what we're going to find in this case, we found lots of stuff, but we didn't find what we were looking for, which was the, the kind of high profile, high impact molecular target that could be used for a new class of treatments. And one of the points I make in the book is we've got pretty good treatments right now for me. The egregious piece of this is not that we don't have anything to offer. It's got plenty of stuff to offer. We're just not doing it. And again, so again, this is not an NMH problem.

10 (18m 35s):
This is a problem of a health system that's badly broken.

0 (18m 40s):
I think many Americans would agree with you that getting health care feels like amaz, but psychiatry is also as, you know, a nascent field just a couple of decades ago, people would be treated with Labatt dummies. How far have we come in providing therapies that are safe and effective?

10 (18m 57s):
We've come very far. We have medications that are show efficacy, that they have a significant statistically significant effect in a randomized clinical trial. And that's been established for over 20 some antidepressants and for multiple anti-psychotics. We also have pretty good data on safety. The difference though, between efficacy and effectiveness is what these medications do in the real world. If people don't take them, they may be efficacious, but they're not effective. And that's often the case with these medicines, where in some cases, in some studies, you know, 50% of people stopped their medication before it's shown its full value.

10 (19m 42s):
But

0 (19m 42s):
Why, why do people stop taking their medication?

10 (19m 46s):
The main reasons one is because the medicine works and the symptoms go away. So why wouldn't you stop it? And, and we have a model that tends to think that this is just about treating symptoms. And so you don't need it if you're not, don't have the symptoms. The second is that almost all the medications in psychiatry have side effects that people don't like, they're not, you know, we've traded one set of side effects for another. A lot of people have that sense of brain fog or they're sedated, or they gain weight, or they have sexual side effects. And you know, nobody wants that. So it's, it's all often this fairy awkward balance between finding something that works and something that doesn't have a side effect that makes you feel worse.

10 (20m 33s):
And, and it's, those are tough decisions to make. And there's a lot of trial and error and stop this one, start that one changed the dose, put two medicines together. The point I've tried to make in the book is that when we talk about treatment for these illnesses, we need to start talking about more than medication. We have psychological treatments. We have other treatments that are, are really quite important and can be effective and also safe. And, and there's no reason not to combine them. So optimal care would involve both medication and psychological treatment. Recovery is something very different.

10 (21m 14s):
It's helping people to really build a life. And, and, and I can't stress how significant this is for people with serious mental illness. And the recovery model is I talk about requires the three PS that is people place and purpose. These aren't covered by insurance. There's no pill for this, but social support, having a sanctuary where you can recover, where you can, you can heal. And then having a reason to recover, having a purpose, having a mission incredibly important for young people who have a mental illness to feel like they have a purpose as well.

10 (21m 55s):
And our healthcare system rarely engages on those three PS are understands the importance of doing so much more than just pushing another medication.

0 (22m 7s):
I'm wondering in an ideal world, this gentleman who has a son, who's struggling with schizophrenia and ricocheting between hospitalization and homelessness and incarceration, what kind of outcome in an ideal world, in what it sounds like you're saying is potentially a buildable world. What kind of outcome does that lead to for him?

10 (22m 28s):
It's a year potentially multi-year commitment to making sure that he gets decent health care, that he has a decent place to live, that he's getting, not just medication, but he has to be on medication. Most of the time, most individuals are going to need that, but much more comprehensive what we call whole person care that deals with a range of issues, some of which may be cognitive, some of which may have to do with the fact that he needs job training, or he needs an education to be able to get the skills that will allow him not to be unemployed and disabled.

12 (23m 5s):
I sent to the Congress today, a series of proposals to help fight mental illness and mental retardation.

10 (23m 12s):
The United States really took on this problem in the early 1960s, under president Kennedy, who in the last act that he signed the community mental health act on October 31st, 1963, before he was assassinated in November

12 (23m 28s):
With respect to mental illness, chief aim is to get people out of state, custodial institutions and back into their communities and homes without hardship or danger.

10 (23m 38s):
He said, when he signed the act, he said, you know, the folks with the metal elders should no longer be alien to our affections or from our communities.

12 (23m 48s):
We'll be possible within a decade or two to reduce the number of patients now on the custodial care by 50% or more,

10 (23m 56s):
That didn't happen for a lot of reasons, although it started to, but what's interesting is we're back at it again. And over the last two or three years for the first time, really, since the sixties and seventies, the federal government is creating these comprehensive community centers.

13 (24m 19s):
Unassuming building in the south Bronx is what's known as a clubhouse. Its members have severe mental illness who have

10 (24m 26s):
Really hit what we call stage four of mental illness when they are truly disabled and have been homeless and incarcerated and really not functioning.

13 (24m 37s):
It was three years ago when Denise Velez arrived, she says homeless and in a deep depression,

14 (24m 43s):
Because of them helping me with a job and everything, I was able to find like my self worth and you know, my coverage and my will to get back out there and get back to work. You know, cause I felt worthless

10 (24m 54s):
Giving them a place where they can recover between having clubhouses and then having these clinics that are in the community that have no wrong door that are able to follow people for periods of time. And to ensure that they're getting optimal medical care, they're getting the kinds of supports for this kind of whole person care approach that they need.

15 (25m 18s):
I take a couple of classes each day. This semester I'm focusing predominantly on my socialization skills by both taking classes where I get to practice both speaking and listening to others,

10 (25m 31s):
Getting the happen. And it's really, to me, it's a very hopeful sign that we have both the national and in many states, the state leadership to make sure that people with these illnesses, aren't no longer alien to our affections or apart from our communities.

0 (25m 58s):
Dr. Thomas insoles new book is called healing. Our path from mental illness to mental health bossy ECPI has a book out too. It's called, I'm telling the truth, but I'm lying. Today's show was produced by Halima shot, edited by Matthew collect engineered by a FEMA Shapiro. And fact-checked by Tori Domingus. I'm Noel king it's today explained