3 (0s):
It's Wednesday, April 22nd. 2020 AKA Earth Day 50/50. I'm Sean rahman's broom. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained. We thought the first covid-19 deaths in the United States occurred in Seattle in late February, but on Tuesday night officials in Santa Clara County, California announced that they had one in early February and another in mid-February this new information might shift our understanding of when and how How the virus spread in the United States apparently neither of the people who died in California had traveled anywhere. They might have been exposed to this coronavirus President Trump appears to be backing down from the sweeping and painfully on specific immigration, ban.

3 (44s):
He announced on Twitter the other day. He's saying no more green cards, but appears to be okay with guest worker programs. The President says he'll sign the executive order today, but he's been known to make stuff up. The Department of Education has barred hundreds of thousands of DACA students from her. In emergency funds from the stimulus package passed by Congress over 6 billion dollars were set aside for college students, but evidently not those who were brought to this country as children without documents or reminder that DACA is the Obama era deferred action for childhood arrivals program. President Trump is trying to end and the LA Times reports more than a million u.s. Citizens have been blocked from receiving stimulus checks because they are married to immigrants who don't have social security numbers.

3 (1m 27s):
Lebanon has confirmed the first covid-19 case. A Palestinian refugee camp according to the United Nations. The news has Amplified existing fears of how this virus could tear through camps that has hundreds of thousands of Palestinians in cancellation news. They've come for the running of the bulls Oktoberfest and the National Spelling Bee here in the United States, but running with Bulls can kill you too. There's beer at the store down the street and your kids can spell from just about anywhere speaking of kids. We got a voicemail on our listener voicemail line from a kid named. Beatrice in South Korea, but Beatrice did not leave a callback number and we want to get in touch. So Beatrice if you're listening or the parents or friends of Beatrice here this we want to get in touch with her call us back and leave us a call back.

3 (2m 12s):
Number two zero two six eight eight five nine, four four or email today explained at vox.com. Thank you.

2 (2m 23s):
This episode is brought to you by course correction a production of Doha debates and Qatar Foundation hosted by journalist. Nellie farha diet way too often. I've seen and read stories that leave out the people impacted the most people sometimes just like me in each episode Nell African friends one massive Global issue at a time and connects with the people most affected by it. I had my work my status my life my pride. I lost it. I'm nothing here challenge yourself to change the world find course correction presented by Doha debates wherever you get your podcasts.

3 (3m 20s):
Fifty years ago today millions of Americans got together for demonstrations celebrations and cleanups to Mark the very first Earth Day later that same year President Richard Nixon founded the Environmental Protection Agency and we got the Clean Air Act of 1970 since then we haven't done the best job of protecting the planet. We have rules regulating industrial pollution. But President Trump just suspended them we recycle but it sort of depends on where you live and chances are most of our Sticks are ending up in the trash or Worse the oceans. We have more fuel efficient vehicles, but we've pumped trillions and trillions and trillions of tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere since the original Earth Day in 1970, but it's never too late to stop treating the planet like trash and in honor of that today.

3 (4m 11s):
We're going to Mark Earth Day 50 with whom are orphan and Brian Resnick both right about the planet for Vox and every year they get together on Earth Day to talk about About what we've learned about our planets in the preceding spin around the Sun we're going to start with whom are we learned a lot of things about the species that we've lost? We also got some Stark examples of how climate change is playing out on this planet. We're also learning a lot about how trees are fighting against climate change and protecting us and we're learning how quickly that air pollution can be reduced and we discovered a lot of new things about life on this planet. Well, that sounds positive. I guess. Let's start with the sad stuff which She's do we lose this year while the past year we lost organisms like the Chinese paddlefish and the cryptic tree Hunter bird and other species like the Sumatran Rhino were declared locally extinct meaning that they were no longer found in some of their ancestral habitats and are now only found in a very few scattered places around the world will hear a bit about the Chinese paddlefish cryptic tree Hunter and Sumatran Rhino.

3 (5m 13s):
What are their greatest hits? The paddlefish is native to the Yangtze river in China and they can grow pretty big up to 23 feet in length. Oh, yeah. I just pulled up a photo. It's like it looks like a shark almost but like with a gnarly long spear for like a knows. It's an I think it's more of a paddle than a spear hence the name, but I guess we can just be at that but they've been it does not look in my defense. It does not look like a paddle. It looks like a spear. Well, if you discover a fish you can call it whatever you want. Okay, so I mean, all right Pete Chinese paddlefish.

3 (5m 54s):
I'm sorry. Do we lose it to overfishing and looks like the kind of thing that someone would want to eat? Well that but also like the Yangtze River has also had issues with pollution and other kinds of Industrial Waste seeping into the water and so I could have had its habitat choked out by that as well, but it hasn't been spotted for a long time either. There was hope that it might have been surviving in some isolated pockets. But in the past year, they just decided at this point call it quits. And label it as an extinct organism, huh? And how about the cryptic tree Hunter? This dude sounds hard to wrap your head around. Yeah. It's a bird that's found in Brazil and it's found in the humid

4 (6m 30s):
forests around there and

3 (6m 32s):
it's been missing for a very long time and then scientists decided to declare it extinct because there was no evidence that it was still around. Could it be hiding somewhere? It's cute. It's like a robin with like not such an orange chest almost but similar-looking it could it still be out there. Potentially but scientists have been holding out hope for a long time and they still have yet to find and I think at this point they're calling off the search. And is this is this because of us to we do this to this deforestation or is this potentially, you know natural causes it's hard to say. I mean, you're right that there are natural extinctions that constantly happen. But the Amazon rainforest is also been experiencing a high rate of deforestation as well as human encroachment and settlement and things like Agriculture and its vicinity and that's causing disruption to that ecosystem making it harder for many of the Native species to survive and this could be a casualty of that.

3 (7m 28s):
Huh and the Sumatran Rhino. I mean I assume it looks like a rhino still around but on the brink. Yeah, it's a rhinoceros. You know, it's got the pointy nose and it lives on Islands in Southeast Asia and Indonesia, but it was declared extinct in the wild in Malaysia and last year the last Mantra in rhino in Malaysia died. And right now there's only about 80 left, but they all live in Indonesia, but over the past year. We also learned a lot more about the pace at which we are losing animals. There was a study that found. That we lost more than a quarter of all North American birds since 1970 and there was another important study that looked at the kind of biodiversity. We lost this is how unique the species are that have gone extinct and they found that if you look at all the mammal species alone that have gone extinct since humans have walked the Earth about 200,000 years ago.

3 (8m 17s):
It would take between three and seven million years worth of evolution to restore that level of diversity. So it's a sign of just not how much we're losing but the uniqueness of what we've lost Okay. So from Bad News to bad news climate change is getting worse. Yes, and we got a pretty Stark example of that with the fires. We saw in Australia in late 2019 and early 2020, right? They came amid Australia's hottest year on record. Now Australia has a notoriously volatile climate it often goes between extremes of heat and cold and wet and dry when you see this volatility on top of the warming that the planet has been seen due to human activity.

3 (8m 57s):
It makes Extreme situation even more extreme and these fires they went on to burn more than 27 million Acres destroyed more than 3,000 homes kill more than 29 people and the smoke that they created went all around the world literally circled the planet and in Australia, it's pretty alarming because these ecosystems are some of the most fragile and unique in the world. There are animals in Australia that you don't find anywhere else and I think the fires in Australia are still fresh in our minds, but How is this going to replicate around the world? Well, it's true that other countries don't have the same kind of notoriously variable climate, but other countries should pay attention because as the climate changes more extremes will start coming toward them as well.

3 (9m 42s):
So there are other parts of the world particularly those around the Mediterranean region that have some overlapping climate bands similar to Australia and they are going to eventually struggle with things like drought and more extreme heat and things like that and that kind of volatility will start to come to them as well. So what we saw in Australia could be a sign of things to come on a small Silver Lining here is that trees are getting better at dealing with climate change. Well, I would say like we learned a lot more about how trees are helping us fight climate change in the past year trees help cool the air around them. They also take in carbon dioxide and store it in their biomass and then as they die and Decay they stored in the soil. So over time these four is take carbon dioxide out of the air and help mitigate some of the emissions that were putting out there and You learned last year like there were some research that came out that showed that if we were to restore Forest basically bring them back to where they were before humans started cutting them down.

3 (10m 37s):
We could offset a huge amount of human-caused greenhouse gas emissions. Now that particular study some researchers were questioning the scope of its findings, but a lot more people do agree that trees and restoring ecosystems and forests are an important part of fighting climate change and there's now been a global effort to help enhance. These things like the United Nations green climate fund which is helping subsidized Forest restoration projects and developing countries. Even Donald Trump who has been hostile to acting on climate change touted his plans to plant more trees during his State of the Union Address this year. So this might be one place where the whole world can find common cause nice and you said we discovered some new things about life on this planet while we did lose a number of species we found some more to there are more electric eel species that were recently discovered why We got new species.

3 (11m 29s):
Yeah, there was a debate about whether there was one and I think researchers came out and decided that there were now more than one of this one type of electric eel. And this has nothing to do with like crisper. No, they did not create this in a laboratory. This is just basically researchers looking at the distinctions between the ones that they found so far and they decided that they're actually different kinds of species. Well, I mean this discovery that we have more electric eels is shocking quite frankly. I see what you did there Shawn Goodwin. Anything else? Well, there was also a recent discovery that there are 10 Apple varieties that were once thought extinct that were rediscovered in the Pacific Northwest.

3 (12m 15s):
Wait, that's amazing. They're still discovering new apples. Yeah. I mean like we're not eating all the apples that are out there and there were some that were historically known and that are now lost but now researchers have reported that those have actually not been lost and potentially they could be re cultivated and introduced new varieties cool. Can't wait to download some of that OS anything else before before we go well in general we've been noticing that nature is quite resilient and it can bounce back one of the most stunning examples of that that we've seen recently has been in flowers. They're much more robust and way less fragile and delicate than we once thought I think your colleague Brian wrote about that one, huh?

3 (12m 55s):
He did indeed. We'll talk to him after the break room are. All right, you do that. Support for today's show comes from all birds. All birds is a shoe company. I Googled them once and now the only adds I see on the internet are for all birds. So if you'd like that experience, feel free to look them up there trying to leave the planet in better shape than they found it by making their super comfortable sneakers out of Premium renewable resources and offsetting their carbon emissions. They're so committed to this that they're now listing the carbon footprint for all the stuff they make On the label, they sent me a pair of shoes.

3 (13m 39s):
I tried them on my feet started getting a little sweaty because they were warm and I took him right off because the shoes were so pretty I didn't want to mess them up. They also said check them out. You can wear them without socks. They're so comfortable and I was like way ahead of you. I never wear socks with my shoes. Anyway get a pair of all birds for yourself or someone you love and know that you're not only getting a super comfy pair of shoes. You're also pitching in to do the planet the solid learn more about their sustainability Mission and grab yourself a pair. Are at all birds.com today?

2 (14m 15s):
This is Advertiser content as a journalist. I'm part of the problem. We reduce people to 1 minute 14 News packages. I've done it. I've done it myself about my own people newsrooms are tasked with covering the whole world, but they don't represent it more than three-quarters of all Newsroom employees in the US are white and three out of five of them are men. This has an impact the voice you heard is Nella for her diet. She's a journalist a 30-something Millennial women of I'm a Muslim Now look for is the host of course correction a podcast from Doha debates and Qatar Foundation. It seeks to include the voices were not hearing in the conversations.

2 (14m 55s):
We are all having around important Global issues, but I was 15 years old and I was watching the news and documentaries. It was like this big tall white man who's telling me what the brown people think right and I'm the brown people and it would be presented to us. As fact said of course correction podcast is basically my attempt. At trying to change things a classic journalism Trope is the view from nowhere a single journalist certain of their impartiality presenting information as fact, but there's always a view from somewhere to now offer that personal experience is a feature not a bug we all come with a set of biases.

2 (15m 37s):
It's about taking personal responsibility. Not just as an individual not just as mean elephant a person but as a journalist to Report accurately and truthfully be a part of the conversation for change. Listen to course correction wherever you get your podcasts.

3 (16m 5s):
Brian Resnick Vox you wrote a story recently about the study that you mirror van Vox our colleague just told us about this flower study. This study that says flowers aren't as fragile as they seem how so,

4 (16m 20s):
you know, maybe it's just the lockdowns and maybe it's just like the state of the world where everything seems so fragile and like it's such a like a panic moment. But I saw this study that in normal times would be something simple and you know, maybe it's like a little cute study. But like this one really hit me very hard emotionally. It's a study about what happens to flowers after they have accidents and like the study references like this idea that like sometimes a tree branch falls on a flower and what is the flower to do after it gets misaligned because there's this like delicate nature of solution where the flower needs to be oriented just perfectly so Abby can come and land on it and pollinate it and continue the flower lines.

4 (17m 8s):
It was really like kind of like a touching story for me the to hear the scientist talk about how they did this and this has never been documented in the scientific literature before the scientist. I spoke to about this was telling me like he went through all of Darwin's writings and Darwin was a huge botanist and selfie like did this Internet search and he couldn't find any reference to this like really simple small things flowers do which is you know, when they get knocked down they try to write themselves up. This scientist he told me a story about 10 years ago when he was in Australia, and he came across a trigger

2 (17m 49s):
plant. A trigger plant.

4 (17m 55s):
Yeah trigger plan is kind of like a Snapdragon here in the US where it has like a tall stock that goes up and down vertical and then all around the stalk flowers are pointing outwards like towards the horizon and like looks like this like kind of jewel-encrusted stock. He went out and he saw a trigger plant that had fallen down like a branch had fallen on top of it and pushed it over and that's Problem for the trigger plant because the flowers they Point outwards because when the flowers are oriented like that there's a landing pad for be to land on so it can pollinate that flower and when the plant is knocked over the be has nowhere to land but he can't go upside down and sometimes to is not just like the be giving the pollen that's messed up.

4 (18m 47s):
It's the be receiving the pollen that's messed up to when the plant is. He suffered an accident when it falls down. And so this scientist just observed that after this flower was knocked over. He saw the flowers on the stock reorient themselves. They Twisted it into the right position and he just took note of that and like for the last 10 years, he and a co-author have just been like whenever they can notice the flower that has turned around after they either tied it down or after a branch falls on it. They In order that and 10 years later, they have this remarkably small beautiful finding in a paper That's Just Flowers try to save themselves after an

3 (19m 32s):
injury. Huh, but you know, it just feels sort of intuitive that that would be the case. Like if you put a house plant in a window, it starts leaning towards the light because it's like oh this is what I want. You know, what's the major Revelation here?

4 (19m 53s):
It's incredibly intuitive. It's incredibly small. The thing about plants is that they stay put in one place their whole existence. They don't move but yet they have Evolve these evolutionary mechanisms to survive and they are just trying to deal with you know, the worst that the world gives them with very limited tools and so like yeah, this is a really small study and like in most times I probably wouldn't have noticed it but I feel like these days. I've been noticing a lot of things about, you know, it's spring time and just noticing the resilience of Nature and appreciating that and knowing that this is like a common attribute.

4 (20m 33s):
Root of all life that you know, when you knock a flower over it wants more life. It's going to fight even like a little tiny flower. Well try to you know restore itself. But then also like I also appreciate like these scientists who just spent ten years noticing the tiniest movements of flowers and for the first time ever and documenting that in a scientific journal when like even you know, Darwin and all sorts of great botanists and evolutionary biology. Just never never bothered to write this down.

3 (21m 7s):
So scientists after all this time have just bothered to publish this study that says when you kick a flower over its going to try and get back up again and it isn't just the trigger plant.

4 (21m 19s):
Yeah, they looked at species and South America and Australia and North America and the UK, you know, they would do an experiment where they were just like simulate like a plant being knocked over without killing it by just tying it to the ground and they would notice that like within a day or two most flowers will reorient themselves to make it a little bit more interesting scientifically. There's some flowers that don't do this certain flowers that are just open and are easily accessible even when they are knocked down like they don't reorient themselves as much so that's a clue like this serves like a real evolutionary function.

3 (21m 57s):
I guess we can't go outside anymore to enjoy all the spring blooms. But are you looking at your house plants differently? In this pandemic after reading this study.

4 (22m 6s):
Yeah, like throughout this lockdown experience. I've been keeping some plants here and like a real weird inflection point for me was I had taken this fresh basil. I bought at Trader Joe's and I've cut it stem and I put it in some water hoping it would

3 (22m 20s):
root.

4 (22m 23s):
And then like this one morning, I woke up and I saw and little glass phase. There's these little two inch fruits and and that moment I just got some absurd Joy of like watching these little this little plant root is like this is not an ideal situation for basil plant, but yet it started to put out new Roots kind of just like how flowers reorient themselves after you know, they get knocked down and I think there's like a great comfort and noticing the resilience of small

3 (22m 52s):
things. Brian Resnick writes about science for vaux who mirror van focuses on the environment you can find the article they wrote about all the things we've learned about Earth this year over at vox.com You're worried about the world right now. I'm worried about the world right now. We're all a little worried about the world right now. If you're struggling with anxiety loneliness or having trouble coping with it all you're not alone better help would like to help they offer licensed professional counselors who can help they connect you with your counselors in a safe and private online environment.

3 (23m 43s):
And anything you share is confidential better help is Affordable and listeners of today explain get 10% off with your first month. With the discount code explained go to better help.com explained that is better heelp.com explained and talk to a therapist online. With the discount code explained go to better help.com explained that is better heelp.com explained and talk to a therapist online.