1 (1s):
Facebook is continuing to take critical steps to better secure their platforms including more than tripling Safety and Security teams to 35,000 people and partnering with security researchers other tech companies and law enforcement. What's next Facebook supports updating internet regulations to address today's challenges and hold companies, including Facebook accountable for combating for an election interference protecting people's privacy and enabling safe and easy data portability between Forms, learn more at about dot f b.com regulation. 26 I'll

2 (42s):
explain welcome back to today explained. I'm Sean Rama's firm. If it's your first time joining us stop listening to this episode and pull up yesterday's it's titled can the Democrats take the senate for those of you who heard it you'll recall the answer is maybe what once seemed implausible is now looking quite possible and we ended the conversation with our colleague Ellen Nelson on the question of What Joe Biden would do with majorities in the house and the Senate? She said he's got a new deal style agenda for these United States today. We're going to break down that agenda with another colleague the host of vaux's future. Perfect podcast Dylan Matthews.

2 (1m 24s):
We started with the name of this Biden new deal. It's heavy on the alliteration. She has a big policy agenda that they're calling build back better in

1 (1m 35s):
order to meet the challenges today. We can't just feel bad. Back the way things were before

2 (1m 40s):
if the build back better that is four-pronged, but it's basically investing a whole lot of money and a whole lot of things. Let's dive right into it. What are the four prongs? So the four prongs are number one clean energy. Number two caregiving number three made in America and made in all of America. They like to emphasize and prong number four is racial equity in closing the racial wealth Gap. Okay, so wildly ambitious Let's break them down one by one starting with plank one clean energy and we spoke to our colleague David Roberts a bit about this but this is essentially he wants to invest two trillion dollars in a green economy.

2 (2m 22s):
Yes, you want to invest two trillion dollars and to do it fast over over just a few years not over a Whole Decade and this is a big shift from how Democrats usually talked about clean energy say a decade ago. So in 2010, the big Democratic item was a cap-and-trade bill. Bill, and the the centerpiece of that was charging polluters for everything they polluted and that was really hard because it was easy to paint it as a tax and an easy to whip up opposition against and so how Biden's approaching it now, which I think reflects the way a lot of people are in the climate world are approaching it is instead of offering a stick you offer

1 (2m 58s):
carrot. We can't rebuild our economy and meet this crime and crisis unless we create opportunities for people to build. their own communities It's about jobs. It's also about dignity. It's about Pride. I'm confident we can do this.

2 (3m 18s):
So you offer two trillion dollars in funding to research and develop and then actually deploy things like electric cars and buses and trucks distributed solar a better grid with more battery storage so that when things like solar and wind are out because the sun doesn't shine all the time in the wind doesn't blow all the time. You have some storage.

1 (3m 40s):
It's

2 (3m 40s):
to make up for that soda spending lots of money to get the stuff that you want to get done rather than penalizing people for doing stuff. You don't want to have done and this two trillion dollar plan on its own would be all presidential candidate from the past would really need to say here's my policy agenda. But he's got these three prongs left. What does he want to do on caregiving the basic thing here is investing more in especially child care, but also care for Or for elderly people.

1 (4m 11s):
This is about easing The Squeeze on working families who are raising their kids and caring for aging loved ones at the same time.

2 (4m 19s):
As I think a lot of people have noticed during the pandemic. It is really really expensive to get someone to take care of your kids. Especially young children for parents who are trying to go back into the workforce. And so Biden has proposed this system first off of the universal Pre-K. So every three and four-year-old would have access to free. In schooling and below that age and for people sort before and after school a really large system of tax credits to subsidize access to childcare the hope is that for the vast majority of Americans you would cap child care expenses at seven percent of your income. So for the average American making an average salary, it would go from being tens of thousands of dollars a year to maybe a couple thousand.

2 (5m 7s):
Okay, so a few trillion in spending so far on a green economy. Economy and caregiving. What about made in all of America? What's the deal there? Like another few trillion. I just want to keep a tab here.

1 (5m 18s):
This is merely hundreds of billions rather than surely.

2 (5m 22s):
This is a seven hundred billion dollar plan. So Joe Biden, wow, he was sort of painted as a moderate in the primary and he was compared to Someone Like Bernie Sanders has always been like a bit of an economic populist. You know, they call me middle-class Joe and this plan is very much like that. I have Joe Biden so they want to counter the move of manufacturing but also service jobs into other countries and they also want to address concerns that have come up. I think especially since the 2016 election about sort of underinvestment in certain areas of whether places like Appalachia or the Rust Belt or getting left behind while a handful of really rich cities like San Francisco and New York do really well and so the made in all of America part is we're not only going to spend seven hundred billion.

2 (6m 10s):
Zero's funding research and investment and also 400 billion of that is going to be spent just buying these

1 (6m 16s):
products when we spend taxpayers money from the federal government spends taxpayers money. We should use it to buy American products and support American jobs. My plan would tighten the rules to make this a reality and it goes further during my first term alone will invest four hundred billion dollars to purchase. Products and materials our country needs to modernize our infrastructure replenish our critical stockpiles and the highest national security. That's how much the federal government will spend on buying products the federal government and the final prong that he's going to address the racial wealth Gap billions hundreds of billions trillions.

1 (7m 1s):
There is less of

2 (7m 2s):
a hard number on this. It's more something that's threaded throughout all of his other proposals. So he has a big proposal that is doesn't get its own. Krong, but for affordable college and free college below a certain income threshold part of that is spending billions of dollars subsidizing historically black colleges and universities part of his economic recovery. Agenda has been asking the Federal Reserve for the first time to take the racial wealth Gap into consideration when they're making monetary policy decisions

1 (7m 33s):
removing the barriers for black and brown entrepreneurs start and grow businesses is only one of many things we have to do. Close the racial wealth Gap in this nation.

2 (7m 43s):
Why his Biden picked these for policy areas or issues to focus on the environment caregiving American manufacturing and the racial wealth Gap. So I think American manufacturing speaks to something about him personally and is something that has motivated him a lot of his

1 (8m 3s):
career. Yeah. I workers have been with me my entire career when I first the first operation to ever endorsed me. In 1972, I wouldn't even old enough to be elected Senator and you guys endorsed me and I was able to turn 30 by the time I got sworn in I think in

2 (8m 20s):
general you're looking at a list of things of the democratic Coalition cares about and Joe Biden. He's like a capital D Democrat and will do what it takes to lead a coalition of Democrats that there have been past presidents who are really strong personalities in their own right? I think Obama was like this Bill Clinton was like this. Some degree where they were individuals who had very strong views on certain things that were not necessarily the views of their party. Joe Biden is a party man. You sees that the party cares about climate change. He sees that the party cares about caregiving and childcare. He sees that there's a lot of energy moving to address the racial wealth Gap and uses those things in your response to it and he builds an agenda that's responsive to the Coalition that he's trying to represent and I think that's an unusual approach in recent decades but is also So more traditionally what party leaders have been supposed to do throughout American history, and I think it's something that FDR notably saw as his role that Ser as an individual is when he ran in 1932 was not seen as this like wild I revolutionary but he saw where the labor side of his party was going.

2 (9m 30s):
He saw sort of rising and support for Communists and socialists amidst the Great Depression and he put together an agenda that you thought could represent the Coalition that And I think Joe Biden is trying to do something similar and in speaking of FDR. How does Joe Biden's agenda to build back better with trillions upon trillions of spending compared to the platform's of previous presidents Democratic or republican. So it's just a massive agenda in terms of dollar amounts. I think his green energy plan alone is about twice the size of Obamacare in terms of 10-year spending, which is Isabel Obamacare was a major achievement and he's proposing several plans that dwarf it in size.

2 (10m 17s):
I haven't done the exact math with the new deal, but I suspect you would come up with something similar. The New Deal in dollar terms is not as large as you would think. It's the absorb regulatory structures and new agencies that they set up that that we remember it for. I think what's different about Biden is especially in a comparison to FDR. Part of why people admire FDR and we remember and the way we do is that he tried everything that he saw this sort of world historic crisis and said, I'm not just going to set up one government agency that hires people to do Public Works. I'm going to set up like five of them and have five people. I trust run them and see who wins he called it bold persistent experimentation, and I don't see that as much with Joe Biden.

2 (11m 5s):
He has sort of a handful of things that he wants to do.

1 (11m 7s):
Is the

2 (11m 7s):
lesson of throw everything at the wall and see what sticks approach but it is similar in in the kind of grandiosity of the plans and the scale of spending that he's imagining

1 (11m 26s):
more with Dylan in a minute. Facebook is continuing to take critical steps to better secure their platforms including more than tripling Safety and Security teams to 35,000 people and partnering with security researchers other tech companies and law enforcement. What's next Facebook supports updating internet regulations to address today's challenges and hold companies, including Facebook accountable for combating for an election interference protecting people's privacy and enabling safe and easy data portability.

1 (12m 11s):
Twin platforms learn more at about dot f b.com regulation. From Zoo 22 2012 22.

2 (12m 26s):
Okay. So Dylan if Biden has the Senate and the house we get some sort of New Deal style revolutionary platform agenda with with trillions in spending and a new ideas for the Federal Reserve even and and caregiving what if he doesn't what if he doesn't get the Senate what

1 (12m 46s):
if he loses the house so if Doesn't get the Senate I would amend this

2 (12m 50s):
to say also if he gets the Senate but there isn't significant filibuster reform because even if you get the Senate, but you don't have 60 people it can be very difficult to pass this stuff. Some of it you can pass through something called budget reconciliation, but it gets a lot harder if you don't have a filibuster-proof majority, I think a good example of this is a fight that biting was very much a part of in 2009 over passing the stimulus. So Democrats have a house They had I think at that point 59 members of the Senate and they needed 60 to get something passed. And so they proposed stimulus legislation, but it couldn't get passed until they cleaned off at least one Republican voter.

2 (13m 34s):
And so Biden and Obama spent months in rooms with a handful of moderate Republicans trying to craft a stimulus bill they could agree to and they eventually

1 (13m 43s):
did the yeas are 68. The Nays are

2 (13m 46s):
38 and it was it was It's smaller and arguably hurt the recovery by being a lot smaller and to make matters worse for by 10 the three Republicans. They got to support

1 (13m 58s):
that senator snowe from Maine Senator Collins from me Senator Specter from Pennsylvania. But for them we would not be where we

2 (14m 7s):
are two of them are out of the Senate and one of them is Susan Collins and if Democrats retake this on it, she's probably not going to be there. She'll be replaced with a Democrat so You have a much more conservative Senate Republican caucus that you have to win over members from in order to get things done. And if you don't have any control of the Senate and Mitch McConnell is majority leader he gets to decide what they vote on. So even if you do have the votes, there's no mechanism the way there is in the house even to get something that has majority support and put it on the senate floor if Mitch McConnell doesn't want it to be voted on and and Mitch McConnell's One power there's less of a chance to filibuster is going anywhere, right?

2 (14m 53s):
He will understand that he has a chance of losing his majority and he's not going to mess with the best tool he has if he's eventually in the minority how has Joe Biden's political past set him up to deal with this particular scenario with the Mitch McConnell scenario. So one thing Joe Biden's advisors will tell you and and insist upon quite strongly is this is a guy who entered the Ended in 1972 or early 1973 I suppose and was there for 36 years before he became vice president. He knows a lot of Republican Senators and Republican Senators like him a lot personally. He was not like a bomb thrower in the Senate.

2 (15m 35s):
He was someone who worked very hard to get along with people on both sides of the aisle and they'll tell you lots of stories about this for instance. They'll tell you stories from the Obama years. So by doing was very intimately involved in 2011. Negotiations between Mitch McConnell and Obama and John Boehner about a debt ceiling spending deal and people were part of those negotiations will tell you that the McConnell and Boehner liked by it in a lot more than they liked

1 (16m 2s):
Obama II get in trouble. I read a New York Times today that I one of my problems is if I ever run for president, I like Republicans. Okay. Well bless me Father for I have sinned. I think I brought a very sharp

2 (16m 19s):
distinction between what happens if he has the Senate and House versus if he doesn't I don't know if bite and draws that same distinction. I think there's part of him that really believes you can sit down and talk to Republicans and get them to believe that his agenda is what's best for the country and move forward with that and I think my concern is that that's an overly naive assessment of where the Republican party is now compared to where it was when he started in the Sun. And even for the majority of his time there,

1 (16m 54s):
is there a chance that in this scenario where a President Joe Biden has to deal with a senate majority leader Mitch McConnell that he just sort of

2 (17m 4s):
quickly backtracks to being

1 (17m 6s):
moderate Joe, you know, a guy Republicans can talk to not this guy who's proposing a platform agenda left of any previous Democratic candidate in history. I mean, I think it's certainly

2 (17m 18s):
possible. I mean Barack Obama ran on expanding spending on a lot of stuff in 2008 and he did expand spending a lot of stuffs in 2009 and 2010 and then Republicans retook the house and you cut a deal and 2011 where 1.2 trillion dollars of domestic spending was cut automatically in exchange for for not defaulting on the u.s. Debt. And that was a deal that Ted Kaufman who is a Of almost lifelong Aid to Joe Biden served as his chief of staff for many years and took his senate seat when inviting became vice president told me was like a model for how they think that Biden should govern he pointed to that debt ceiling deal to cut trillions and spending and said, you know, this is Joe at his best.

2 (18m 7s):
He can sit down with someone like Mitch McConnell and John Boehner and come to a deal and I think that is appealing to to some more moderate Joe Biden supporters, but I think it's a point of concern for progressives who are wondering how sincere he is about these multitrillion-dollar plans that if when push comes to shove he has to deal with Republican opposition and agrees to large-scale Cuts instead of sort of holding his ground that might be a source of disillusionment for people who were already kind of skeptical of him in the

1 (18m 41s):
primaries. Is there also a chance that he has

2 (18m 47s):
to sort of And all of his political Capital just to dig the nation out of the economic and Health crisis. It'll be in because of covid-19 by potentially January of next year that he looks spend so much political Capital. Just trying to get the nation out of Crisis that he won't have the votes or the wherewithal to to pass all of this other ambitious stuff on on the economy and and the environment and caregiving and the racial wealth Gap. Gap I think that's a big risk and there's a way in which you can use the effort to pass something to take the country out of the hole to get at his other priorities.

2 (19m 29s):
So this is something Obama did in the stimulus Bill where you had a bunch of mechanisms to send out money immediately. And then you also had a bunch of money for sort of green jobs changing education policies and States they snuck in a lot of other things that they wanted to do in that. Give so One path for bite in is to try to do that. But I think the other thing for him to keep in mind is that his political fate is tied up in how well he handles this crisis in 2009. There's a member of his and Obama's team name Christy Romer who's an economist at Berkeley and she ran the numbers and found that you would need something like 1.2 1.3 trillion dollars in stimulus to pull the country out of the hole,

1 (20m 14s):
but if you were to ask me what was sort of the main mistake that both the fed and the Distraction made it was to not be even Bolder in our policy

2 (20m 22s):
response. But the response from other advisors was Larry Summers said, it's non planetary that like we take that to the Senate everyone will laugh at us and we won't get anything done anything. There's he had a point but also because the recovery was so weak. They lost a ton of seats in 2010 and they suffered in a lot of other ways politically at the end of the day voters want to you too.

1 (20m 47s):
Take

2 (20m 47s):
them out of the hole and that can require doing things that seem really extreme in the moment. But that are necessary to get you back to something like a normal state of things when you're in a situation with double-digit unemployment and a massive pandemic and is it the double-digit unemployment and the massive pandemic that created this sort of transformation in Joe Biden that that took him from being like just that

1 (21m 16s):
dependable. I'll moderate Joe that you know real well because he's been around since you know

2 (21m 21s):
the dawn of time to this guy with like FDR style ideas.

1 (21m 27s):
Yeah, I think

2 (21m 29s):
Biden's pitch before coronavirus. And before the coronavirus economic collapse was I'll make things normal again. You won't have the president tweeting at 3 a.m. Because he's watching Fox News and it has some new theories about ballot harvesting. You'll you'll have a normal president who makes the news when he's like doing things to help people and I think Kaufman told me that the Erie was addition by subtraction that a lot of things get fixed. Just when you get Trump out of the White House and to some degree that might have been true in February 20 20. It's definitely not true. Now just getting Trump out of the White House does not end the pandemic.

2 (22m 11s):
It does not end the economic collapse you need to do a lot of affirmative things to dig the country out of those holes. And so I do think that is Force Five is hand to a degree and his push them to be a lot more ambitious than they otherwise would be

1 (22m 35s):
Dylan Matthews is the host of vaux's future perfect podcast of fresh season is on its way you can and should give it a listen you can find Dylan's and Ellas articles on Biden and the Senate races over at vox.com. And one last thing last year. We

2 (22m 52s):
came to you and asked you to

1 (22m 53s):
fill out a listener survey one. That would help us understand. Why you listen what you're looking for who you are all of it. Well a lot has changed since last year for you for us. But the country for the world, so we're doing another serving it's short. It's easy and it will help us out. If you can make the time you can find it at vaux media.com / pods survey. Again, that's VOX media.com - pod survey. You can even find a link in today's episode description. Thanks for making the time.

1 (23m 45s):
Facebook is continuing to take critical steps to better secure their platforms including more than tripling Safety and Security teams to 35,000 people and partnering with security researchers other tech companies and law enforcement. What's next Facebook supports updating internet regulations to address today's challenges and hold companies, including Facebook accountable for combating for an election interference protecting people's privacy and enabling safe and easy data portability. Twin platforms learn more at about dot f b.com regulation.