0 (1s):
The police must have all the powers that they need to stop the protestors who use gorilla tactics and bring chaos and misery.

2 (11s):
That's Britain's home Secretary Sue Braverman warning that the UK government is going to crack down on climate activists. A group called Just Stop Oil has been disrupting British society.

0 (23s):
There was anger when a group blocked the busy, a four, an arterial route west of the city,

2 (29s):
Blocking traffic, blocking oil terminals. But the move that got this group the most attention, A protest at London's National Gallery of Art

3 (38s):
Climate activist throwing what authorities say appeared to be tomato soup on Van Gogh's famous sunflowers painting than gluing their hands to the wall

2 (44s):
Coming up. Does endangering priceless art help save the planet or does it just make people hate you?

4 (51s):
School me, I don't know how is pouring two cans of tomato soup on a Van Gogh painting a protest

5 (60s):
When your rights are under attack? The A C L U shows up. A C L U members, volunteers, lawyers and staff have protected and championed American Civil Liberties for over 100 years. The organization has fought for everything from free speech to voting rights, abortion access, LGBTQ plus equality, and much more. This critical work is fueled by dedicated members who show up with a recurring monthly donation. Join them and power the ACLU's. Next victories. Become a member with a monthly donation@ac.org slash show up by December 31st.

6 (1m 39s):
In a world where change is accelerating, how do we find meaning, comfort, and connection? Whatever your spiritual beliefs, if any. The prx podcast, how God works, offers a rare combination of cutting-edge science and ancient wisdom meant to help us all grapple with some of life's biggest questions. Join me, Dave DeSteno for season three. From meditation to psychedelics and burning man to tech Shabbat, we're going to take a look at what role spirituality might play and what comes next available on Apple Podcasts or wherever you listen,

2 (2m 16s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. Emma Brown is an artist and a spokesperson for the group that's caused all of this ruckus in the uk. The group is called Just Stop Oil, and it started its campaign in April of this year among the tactics blocking oil terminals a move that did not get the kind of media attention the group wanted blocking traffic, a move that annoyed a lot of people disrupting sporting events and also throwing soup on a painting, a move that got them a lot of attention even though the painting was protected by glass and was not itself damaged. Just stop. Oil is demanding that the UK government stop issuing new licenses for fossil fuel exploration in the uk and they promised that in the days leading up to Christmas that we will will see many more actions from them.

7 (3m 1s):
We're demanding that the UK government immediately halts all licenses and consents for new fossil fuel exploration and development in the uk. We already have plenty of oil and gas projects, oil rigs in the North Sea. So what we are asking right now, or what we're demanding is that the government stops giving licenses to private companies to explore for more oil and gas in the North Sea, to open new oil and gas projects. And we're saying we need an eight year transition, but we need an end date and we cannot give out any more licenses for new oil and gas and coal. We are in an extreme energy crisis where millions and millions of people are being plunged into poverty in this country cuz they can't afford their energy bill.

7 (3m 46s):
So it makes sense in a lot of levels that we need to transition

2 (3m 50s):
In this six to eight years during which the UK is transitioning off of oil, what will happen? The the country will transfer to renewables. Like what, what, what is the ideal situation, I suppose is what I'm trying to, what I'm trying to get out.

7 (4m 3s):
We would argue that renewable energy, just because of the amount of time it takes to come online and the amount of potential that we have as an island nation with plenty of wind, plenty of tidal power and even solar power, we would argue that is the, that is where we need to be focused. So, so these are the kind of solutions that we need to, to drastically invest in to, to bring down our carbon output and to bring down our bills so that like British families aren't starving to death this winter.

2 (4m 32s):
Alright, so you've got a solution. Let's talk about how you're addressing the problem. Two members of just stop oil through tomato soup on Van Gogh's sunflowers. Can you tell me how that transpired?

7 (4m 44s):
We knew that we needed some more higher profile actions to break through and to get the message out there, and one of those actions was going to be throwing soup at a painting. The reason why we chose the soup is because we're in a position in the UK now where we have more food banks than McDonald's. That's never been the case here before. And people are going to food banks and saying, we don't want soup because we can't afford the energy to heat it up. So that's one reason why we were using soup because we wanted to make those parallels.

8 (5m 22s):
Is it work more than you do, work more than justice? Are you more concerned about the protection of a painting or the protection of our planet and people,

7 (5m 34s):
Artists love to interpret. Why, why sunflowers? There's a few reasons we chose that painting, first of all is very famous and much loved. You really wanna take advantage of the value and the, the, the profile of a, a work of art. Another reason we wanted that dramatic, slightly bizarre protest because by targeting something that is precious and valuable, people feel a sense of shock and, and discomfort when they see that being threatened. That is really the emotion that we need to be feeling when we are seeing the decisions our governments are making and the the sort of devastation being reached by the climate catastrophe.

7 (6m 19s):
What

2 (6m 19s):
Do you say to people who love art and agree that you have a very important cause that you are doing a very important thing, but you're also endangering priceless art?

7 (6m 30s):
There was a, a letter, I think by hundreds of museums and there was sort of, well, I would say pearl clutching about these fragile works of art and how they have a duty to protect them for future generations. But do you not see the irony in that protecting objects for a, a future that currently doesn't exist? The trajectory that we are on, there's gonna be no place for walking around an art gallery, that's for sure. If there's not enough food to eat, if we are racked by devastating floods and wildfires and heat waves that kill millions of people, you know, th that's not the place where we get to go around an art gallery and enjoy a nice cup of tea in the, in the cafe.

7 (7m 12s):
So I would say to them, and to, to everyone listening, I studied art myself. I'm an artist. I love art, but art has always been quite radical. Many artists have been socially progressive and even outrageous in their time. And if we can use art in any way to, to get more coverage for this, to challenge people's perceptions of what has value, then I think it's a perfectly legitimate thing to do. It's appropriate for us to use and as tools, anything that we can to get some action on this huge problem.

2 (7m 48s):
Emma, earlier this year I interviewed a man whose husband was despairing over climate change and he set himself on fire in a park in New York in Brooklyn to draw attention to the problem. He died of course, and you know, this gentleman's husband essentially said it didn't work. People paid attention for 15 minutes and the news cycle moved on. We have climate marches now where hundreds of thousands of people show up and it doesn't change anything. Why does your group think that throwing soup on paintings will change anything? If actions as extreme as unfortunately the taking of one's own life do nothing.

7 (8m 28s):
I heard about him and my heart broke because I thought it is devastating that someone can make that sacrifice and it doesn't achieve anything. And I think that our group is not just throwing soup on a painting. They also scaled the Dartford bridge hundreds of feet into the air and shut that bridge. They stopped the motorway around London, they roadblock every day. They throw paint at buildings, they stops traffic on the Abbey Road crossing like the Beatles. The way I see it is like there's a, there's a brick wall that is the current system and it seems completely immovable, completely impenetrable.

7 (9m 9s):
We've got the fossil fuel industry against us. We've got, especially in the uk, the mainstream media funded by Rupert Murdoch against us. And it feels impossible to change. We, we are just here throwing stones at that war and people have been throwing stones at that war for decades and maybe they're weakening it, but you just can't see it yet. And we don't know what the stone is gonna be that we throw and that is gonna finally make a chink in that wall and allow us to dismantle it and build something else. But we have to keep throwing those stones. We have to use every stone that we have, whether it's a small one, whether it's a big one, and we just keep going because the thing that is more likely to defeat us than anything else is hopelessness or given upon ourselves.

7 (9m 53s):
We cannot afford to do that. Emma,

2 (9m 54s):
Let me ask you about public reaction. A researcher and a professor at the University of Pennsylvania here in the US pulled the public and their polling found that overall the public disapproves of these types of protests, non-violent but disruptive, 46% of people they pulled said these kind of tactics decrease their support for efforts to address climate change. 40% of people told the researcher and the professor, it does nothing either way, just stop oil actually did their own polling on Twitter. You asked people, what should we target next? More or less. And only 11.5% of people wanted you to target great artworks. What I'm seeing in these numbers is that the public does not like what you are doing and in fact you are turning them off in a sense.

2 (10m 39s):
Are you seeing something different or do you guys not care?

7 (10m 42s):
I would hugely disagree after seeing the 40 degree heat in the UK that however many percent of people Soly said that they now don't support climate action. I mean, people don't wanna see their kids die because they're annoyed that they were stuck in a traffic jam. So I think we need to kind of take that with a pinch of salt and you have to remember that it's a very big ask to want people to approve of being disrupted, you know, and and disruptive protest movements throughout history have never been popular at the time. So just because people don't like being disrupted doesn't mean that it's not working. So it's not always down to what people think of us, it's down to what they think of the demand and down to what they think about the issue.

7 (11m 24s):
And if we can increase support and bring people along with that, that's a lot more important than whether they like us personally.

2 (11m 30s):
Let me ask you about a threat, if I can put it that way. UK Prime Minister Rishi Sunk says he's going to crack down on what you guys are doing. When he says crack down, do you, do you know what he means?

7 (11m 43s):
Yeah. So they want to increase prison sentences. They want to increase monitoring of activists and protestors, increase tagging, make it an illegal offense to lock on, which is a very old protest tactic where you fix yourself to in a gate or whatever, right? Well criminalize locking on so they're just, they're being very reactionary, which is ridiculous, obviously it's a worrying sign for a democracy, but it's also revealing to the British public that the government would rather imprison peaceful protestors than take action on what the British public can see is definitely a climate emergency.

7 (12m 23s):
So, so I think that, I think the conservative government are in trouble and I think they're doing what any kind of grief of people do when they're in trouble and they see no way out and that is they just keep digging themselves into that hole. So it's unfortunate, but we're gonna keep going because we've obviously reached a point where they think what we're doing is effective and they wanna stop us doing it.

2 (12m 51s):
The UK government's response to that, a spokesperson tells today, explained the right to protest is a fundamental principle of our democracy, but those protestors that disrupt public life delay our emergency services and drain police resources, cost the taxpayer millions and must face proper penalties and quote coming up. What are we to think about all of this? Our loving art and wanting a livable planet? Mutually exclusive. A professor of art history wrestles with his own thoughts.

10 (13m 28s):
For more than 20 years, Rackspace technology has blazed a trail of innovation. We're passionate about customer service excellence and our ability to advise, transform, manage, and optimize solutions for any cloud. Wherever you are in your cloud journey and because you need a cloud solutions partner who can deliver outcomes every day, we're fueled by our unwavering focus, customer First, cloud. First. At Rackspace technology we drive better business outcomes with multi-cloud data, application and security solutions designed to deliver your future faster. Learn more today@rackspace.com.

2 (14m 4s):
When

5 (14m 5s):
You shop through Instacart, you can get everything you need for the holidays delivered right to your door and as little as 60 minutes. Plus, when you pay for your order with Klarna, you have the flexibility to spread your payments out over time. Instacart has so much more than just groceries. You can shop Tech, beauty, home Goods, sporting equipment, and more for everyone on your list. Think of Instacart as your holiday shopping co-pilot. Maybe everyone in your family has wildly different interests and you don't have time to make it to multiple stores to shop. Or maybe you're doing the hosting and you need to order tons of food, place settings and decorations all at once. Whatever you need for the holidays, you can get it delivered through Instacart and pay for it over time.

5 (14m 45s):
With Klarna Shop more than 900 retailers, including Best Buy, Kroger and many others. Say goodbye to the holiday compromise and get everything you need today with more time to pay card it now pay overtime with Klarna. New customers get $25 off their order of $100 or more When paying with Klarna with Code Klarna. 25 terms apply. See instacart.com for more details.

2 (15m 16s):
It's today explained. We're back with David Friedberg. He's a professor of art history at Columbia University and we called him because in 1989 he wrote an important book and a book that is still relevant according to many good reads. Reviewers called The Power of Images

11 (15m 33s):
That dealt with the whole gamut of psychological responses to art from emotional responses of all kinds, from the use of images for propaganda, for also the ways in which it aroused distress, pleasure, and the impulse to destroy.

2 (15m 48s):
How effective is the destruction of art in the advancement of a political or social cause?

11 (15m 53s):
Well, I'm afraid to say it's usually very effective. All acts of rebellion against power, all acts of insults to power are effective at the start. Whether they actually end up affecting regime change is another matter. It's there from the beginning of time. We have the destruction of images of hated rulers in ancient Babylon

12 (16m 21s):
Rules today Christ shall rule forever.

11 (16m 25s):
We've had image destruction in the late Roman empire when Christianity came on the scene.

12 (16m 31s):
Well he said Christ would replace me

11 (16m 34s):
And we shouldn't forget that some acts of destruction are simply ways of replacing the symbols of a hated past, of the regime of old regimes as took place in the French Revolution, the Russian Revolution with the fall of the Iron curtain, people pulled down images of hated leaders was they never wanted to see them again.

13 (16m 54s):
Anti-government protestors toppled Vladimir Lennon, the Russian revolutionary with sledgehammers, they smashed to pieces this symbol of Russian influence over Ukraine

11 (17m 5s):
That actually fell into an old class of image destruction, which was the so-called <unk>, the damnation of memory. The instances can go on and on. When the Sha Peria was replaced, images in Tehran came down. That was the famous removal of the statue of Saddam Hussein. In, in 2003,

14 (17m 32s):
US marine tank with a large chain has pulled the statue up under the same down. It's this giant statue crumbled at the knees and cod over.

11 (17m 45s):
It was supposed to be an outbreak of popular resistance to Saddam, but actually we discovered later that it was orchestrated by the American troops. And then of course, you know the Islamic state was, as you know, radically Islamist and Islamic state took this to its extreme by its actual performances of image destruction.

15 (18m 13s):
Militants knock statues to the floor, even employ a jackhammer to reduce a work to rub it released through social media. Thursday, the five minute video uses music and slow motion to dramatize the destruction at Northern Iraqs Museum.

11 (18m 30s):
When you saw these acts of destruction, you shook in your bones. When you see them attacking these, you realize that these were accompanied by assaults on real human bodies. That of course caused those great drama and tragedy of the regime of Islamic state. Let me say something about what is the history of attacking images for the sake of publicity into which class? Obviously the actions by just stop oil falls. People have always attempted to break images for the sake of publicity, either personal publicity or for a political cause.

11 (19m 11s):
The Irish Republican army from the its beginnings pulled down images or defaced images of English heroes. This is a well-known strategy, this is not a new thing at all.

2 (19m 25s):
We talked to a spokeswoman from just stop oil. Her name is Emma Brown. And she told us that the group did not get much attention from blockading oil terminals, which is an action that is explicitly tied to their goals, but they got a lot of attention when they threw tomato soup on a painting, a thing that is not explicitly tied to their goals. Why do you think that is?

11 (19m 46s):
Any assault on a loved object gains attention. You know, one of the interesting things about great paintings is that they're housed in museums which are the equivalent of the ancient ancient temples. You know, people go and stand in front of them in hush silence and there's another issue. People don't love oil terminals as far as people are concerned. I think what you don't want to forget is that most people have some kind of aesthetic sense. People like the sunflowers, not only because it's a famous picture, but because they're moved by the paintings, it means a great deal to them. Our fellow human beings across the board, whatever class, race country, have some kind of basic aesthetic capacity and they appreciate these works.

11 (20m 32s):
So who the hell cares about what an oil terminal looks like? It's too complicated. They have to start thinking about, you know, what will happen if we lose our oil? They have to make an analysis. But when you see a beautiful thing destroyed, it's upsetting

2 (20m 45s):
When you ask, just stop oil members, why are you doing this? They will say very openly, it is ridiculous to protect art in museums and not protect the earth. What do you think about that?

11 (20m 57s):
I would respond by saying it's ridiculous to invest so much in oil. We should stop oil. But what's the connection with allowing people to go on enjoying works of art that they love, which means something to them. There's no conceivable connection between the two claims. It's a kind of logical absurdity, you know, to do away with one rate salvation of civilization for the sake of saving civilization from climate change, seems to me a confusion of aims. I'm not a determined conservative in search of protecting everything that goes under the name of art.

11 (21m 39s):
You know, I think a lot of the problem now in our society is not only climate change but the disparity between rich and poor and the fact that works of art are now sold for absurd amounts of money. And that has led to a devaluation of the very notion of art in our society. And I think unwittingly just stop oil by these attacks may be aiding in this. For example, there is the famous case quite recently of Banksys Girl with a balloon, which was put up for sale at Sothebys.

16 (22m 16s):
It had just sold for that 1.4 mil and as soon as it did an alarm sounds,

11 (22m 24s):
Banksy very cleverly had installed a paper shredder in the frame of the painting.

17 (22m 30s):
A remote controlled shredder began chewing its way through the canvas. A shock to

11 (22m 34s):
Everyone what happened?

18 (22m 36s):
Banksys, now infamous, shredded work of art is going up for auction again and it could be worth much more than 1.4 million.

11 (22m 44s):
The painting was sold for a higher price for

19 (22m 47s):
New world record salty

11 (22m 53s):
Because of the fame, I suppose, which this attack would bring to the picture, which was then bought at a higher price than it would otherwise have been. So all these things are kind of linked and my aim as an art historian is to insist on the value of the masterworks of humankind over the ages from whatever culture that bring pleasure to people. And these we need to treasure, you know, with our lives and with our bones and we have to defend with our lives of course, and our bones as well, the planet from the destructive effects of oil. But I think there are other ways of doing it. I'd be very happy to talk to Emma about this.

2 (23m 36s):
One gets the impression that just stop oil is betting that artists would understand their actions in some sense, or that at least artists would work to try to interpret what they're doing. She said the group picked tomato soup specifically because it's an illusion to britain's high cost of living, people cooking soup and cans. Is there any way to look at these protests as art themselves or is that a bridge too far for you?

11 (24m 1s):
There's no doubt that many artists are, radical artists are supposed to be radical, thank God they're radical and they're radical in their political views. And I'm sure there are plenty of artists, I'm not surprised who are not. Especially opposed to the throwing of tomatoes soup on sunflowers of haha. I do think that the, the question of, you know, some are drawing attention to, I mean are bringing in sympathizers from a group in our society who are reduced to having to make meals that consist of tomato soup.

11 (24m 41s):
I think that's the most ridiculous idea I've ever heard. Because these are people who are reduced to such straits that they're really not going to be worried about or anything at all in the context of such an attack. I, I think that's one of the most furious connections you could imagine. I mean it's, it appeals to intellectuals in artists maybe, but that's a small section of our, our society. And I think we should leave things in our museums alone for the most part. So that precisely the people, I mean Britain after all is a society, which until very recently had museums that were free for everybody to attend. And that was one of the great things about Britain cuz it made it clear that art was available for all and to distract people from the pleasures of art.

11 (25m 28s):
By throwing I'm, as I speak, I'm becoming stronger in my feelings about this, that I anticipated to deprive people. Of those chances of pleasures, which you know now has become increasingly only available to the rich would be a great shame.

2 (25m 55s):
Today's show was produced by Hema Shaw and edited by Matthew Collette. It was engineered by Paul Robert Mounty and fact checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Noel King. It's today explained. Our days are marked by our

20 (26m 32s):
Pets quirky routines. So my dog Bo, once it's time for bed, he knows I bring him to the couch. I'll get the blanket, cover him up and then that's it. I'll come out the next morning and he'll just be chilling there. It's the best.

21 (26m 45s):
So when things happen that we can't predict, like unexpected illness or injury, it's stressful, fetched by the duo offers unmatched pet insurance that reimburses up to 90% of unexpected vet bills, even things that others don't cover, like exam fees and treatment for breed specific issues. Get your free personalized quote@fetchpet.com slash box.

22 (27m 8s):
Latin and Brazilian Pop has had a tremendous year in 2022 to celebrate Switch. Don Pop the podcast about the making and meaning of popular music. We'll be breaking down our favorite hits from the region. We'll be talking live with Callie's about her viral song Tele Petia. We'll be analyzing how bad Bunny's album became completely ubiquitous and we'll be looking at how Anita found a new international audience. I'm Charlie Harding, the co-host of Switched on Pop, subscribe to Switched on Pop, and listened to the sounds of Latin and Brazilian pop with us all December long. Brought to you by total, by Verizon.