0 (9s):
Frank Ordonez, you covered the white house for NPR. You're also on the politics podcast quite a bit. And you recently were on a plane to Honduras with vice president Kamala Harris. How come

2 (22s):
Vice-president Harris was going to Honduras to attend the inauguration of Sumatra Castro? She's the new president of Honduras And she is also a potential partner, a big partner for the United States in its effort to fight the root causes of migration.

2 (1m 3s):
And it's a really big deal, actually, that Kamala Harris went because, you know, vice-presidents, don't often go to Latin America for inaugurations and particularly countries as small as Honduras. So it really shows how important this is for this white house to have this partnership, because frankly, they really don't have someone that Harris can call in the region to talk with and really work out how to make things better.

4 (1m 34s):
Our perspective, as the United States in terms of our relationship lives on doors is one that we believe our nations as are most nations these days, interconnected and interdependent,

2 (1m 49s):
Because the vast majority of the migrants that are coming to the United States that are coming to the border are coming from the countries in central America and the Northern triangle

6 (2m 2s):
Going after the American dream, because in our country, there's no jobs, there's a lot of crime and you cannot make a living. Our house was swept away by hurricanes

2 (2m 18s):
So that's Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador, and increasingly a number are coming from Nicaragua. Nicaragua is not part of the Northern triangle. And the reality is the United States needs a partner because they don't have so much of a partner in Guatemala and El Salvador, which have kind of taken anti-democratic turns. And they've been having problems with corruption. So the United States is kind of desperate for someone and they hope that that person is Sumedha Castro.

0 (2m 51s):
The last time vice-president Harris took a trip to central America. It didn't go so well. I

4 (2m 58s):
Want to be clear to folks in this region who are thinking about making that dangerous Trek to the United States, Mexico border, do not come, do not come.

0 (3m 12s):
You told migrants very emphatically not to come to the United States. And it wasn't very well received. Did this one go better than that one?

2 (3m 21s):
Yeah, I would. I would say it went a lot better than that one. I mean that one, you know, really went against what so much of the supporters of the administration wanted to hear. They wanted a more humane policy and that didn't sound like the kind of policy that they thought they were going to get. And that was obviously very early in the administration, this trip. It was some good news to share and to talk about and to tout. I mean, the administration has really been having such a hard time with the region. Now with this potential new partner, this is some good news for the administration because CMI Casto campaigned on a platform that the United States really, really liked Promising to fight corruption.

8 (4m 12s):
President's Yamada ran on an anti-corruption platform, promising an overhaul of the country's legal,

2 (4m 17s):
The system promising to improve health care. She's promising to work on climate change. It's those things particularly fighting corruption are the things that the United States want to hear.

0 (4m 37s):
Great. Well, let's talk a little bit more about this new Castro. Does she have any relation first off to the old Castro in Cuba?

2 (4m 44s):
She does not have any relation to the old Castro in Cuba, as far as I know. Okay.

0 (4m 50s):
Fair. What's her story? I mean, how did she come to power? Was she elected democratically? Was there any funny business? So

2 (4m 57s):
There was no funny business. It was actually a very decisive victory for, you know, there were a lot of concerns about it because in the last election there was accusations of funny business. So it was a concern that happening this time, but it wasn't and how she came to the power is, you know, she's actually the wife of a former president of Honduras who was ousted in a, in a coup. And she ran twice before in the following years and did not win. But this time she did. And, and again, it was a very decisive victory. She had a lot of support and a lot of enthusiasm. I mean, when I was there in the stadium in Honduras for the inauguration, I mean, there was a lot of excitement inside and outside the stadium force, you might have custody.

0 (6m 9s):
How did the Honduran people feel about this extra attention from the United States?

2 (6m 13s):
Well, I mean, I think there's been a big demand from the people of Honduras. They too want, you know, these issues to be addressed.

9 (6m 24s):
We hope that she will deliver that, which we've been hoping for for years, that people will no longer migrate to other countries that people will stay and have decent employment, because we all have a right to,

2 (6m 37s):
No one wants to leave their home. They want more economic opportunities in their home countries. And they're quite fed up with the challenges that their governments have had. That's why, I mean, I think you can make an argument or make a case why Castro was so decisively, elected. Okay. So

0 (6m 55s):
How does the Biden administration want to capitalize on all of this excitement around this new, under in president? I mean, apart from her being anti-corruption, what do they actually want to accomplish?

2 (7m 8s):
You know, it's, it's a tough question because there's, there are so many needs in central America, but the kinds of things that they feel that they can work with Castro on are helping the Honduran people. Particularly, for example, they've already announced some more vaccines going to Honduras. They're helping provide some funding for education, for public health awareness. They want to do the kind of things that are going to encourage the hunter and people to stay in their homes and not feel a need to leave.

10 (7m 43s):
Thank you. Get him in poverty has increased by 74% to turn our country into the poorest in Latin America. This statistic in itself explains the caravans of thousands of people who flee north toward Mexico and the United

2 (7m 56s):
<em></em> has talked about putting in a new kind of prosecutorial type thing to kind of fight corruption. It was something that was done in Guatemala. And she's talked about bringing the UN the United nations to help with that. So these are the kinds of things that she's talking about and that the United States feels that they can help kind of bring her along and help this because the reality is she has some huge, huge challenges. The, the economy and hunter is, is really, really bad drugs. And narco trafficking are basically permeate in an every part of the Honduran state.

2 (8m 39s):
And she's hopeful that, you know, with the United States help and with others help that she can start to kind of pick away at some of these problems and hopefully provide some, you know, more hope for, for her people because so many are coming to down states. I think in the last fiscal year, more than 300,000 Hondurans were encountered by border patrol agents. That's a lot.

0 (9m 4s):
Well, let's talk about this economic plan that the United States is drawing up with under is how does it work?

2 (9m 9s):
Key things that they're doing because they feel that, you know, it's not only going to be government social services is that really is going to help the country. The there's so many issues and they really want to bring in the private sector it's called partnership for central America. And what they're trying to do is get American companies to partner with Honduran companies to kind of boost the opportunities, boost jobs, basically, so that people do not feel that they need to leave. And they've gotten some commitments from companies like Microsoft Cargill care, international PepsiCo

11 (9m 45s):
<em></em> <em></em> <em></em> <em></em> . That is <em></em> only story of the EXITO <em></em> .

2 (10m 8s):
And so, you know, we'll see, we'll see what happens, but they hope, you know, to make some progress.

0 (10m 12s):
And somehow a leftist politician named Castro is, is on board with bringing in a bunch of raging capitalism to turn our country around. Yeah.

2 (10m 22s):
That's, what's been very interesting about this election, you know, there, it's kind of counterintuitive that that would be the case, but she's really so far, so far, she has shown at least that she is willing to kind of buck certain trends. And, you know, a lot of people, when she was first elected, the narrative was like, this is going to be really bad for the United States. You know, a socialist as being elected a leftist. But, you know, it's been very interesting to watch and listen to her speak because she is very eager to work with the United States on some of these issues, including economic and working with, you know, us business and trying to figure out different ways to help her people.

2 (11m 7s):
Now could that change? Absolutely. I mean, there's, these problems have been going on for, for years and years and years administration after administration, you know, Obama spent billions in central America, limited progress has been made

0 (11m 53s):
Franco a minute ago. You mentioned that there was some serious profound challenges to actualizing this sort of economic agenda that the byte administration's working on with countries like Honduras. Let's talk about the challenges in Honduras itself beyond corruption, beyond drugs. What are the challenges facing this new president, as she tries to implement this agenda with companies like Microsoft and Pepsi and Cargill,

2 (12m 16s):
She's got huge challenges, particularly in Congress. You know, there was a lot of hope that her party would take control of the various branches of government. And she would have the support of leaders of her party in implementing this entire agenda. But what happened is, you know, the leftist government kind of split into two where she doesn't have the same kind of power that, that the United States can kind of hope they would. And it really created a congressional crisis. Yeah,

12 (12m 44s):
Mara Castro's presidency is already fraud with trepidation, even before it starts

2 (12m 49s):
Before the vice-president went down to Honduras members of Congress on the left, we're literally punching each other in the halls of Congress down in Honduras.

12 (13m 2s):
Honduras is Congress is in crisis over who should lead the legislative body last week around 20 lawmakers from her own Libra of freedom party defected in opposition to Castro's choice for congressional leader,

2 (13m 16s):
Without that kind of support that she hoped to have, it's going to be really hard to kind of implement so many of the things that she wants to implement. You know, on top of that, we've talked a lot about corruption, but that is always going to be a big issue because drug trafficking of the narco world really do have their tentacles in so many parts of the Honduran state. So it is going to take a lot again, without kind of like the party leadership that she had hoped to have. It is going to be harder and harder to kind of push back against that kind of narco infrastructure that she'll likely have to fight. So what is,

0 (13m 56s):
I mean, for this agenda that the Biden administration is trying to implement, is it going to make it through Honduran, political gridlock? Are they going to be dealing with gridlock in the United States and down in central America?

2 (14m 6s):
I mean, that's likely the case. I mean, there's going to be, you know, continued battles and ongoing battles that Castro is going to have to fight and deal with then Tegucigalpa in the United States, you know, from the sources and the administration that I've spoken to. They're very wide-eyed that those are going to be challenges for them.

0 (14m 27s):
And Hunter's, isn't the only country at stake here and where they're investing. Do we have any idea how this strategy might work out in other Northern triangle countries where they don't have an ally in leadership?

2 (14m 40s):
Yeah. I mean, that's why Castro is so important. And so key to the United States. I mean, clearly a lot of migration is coming from Honduras, but there's also lot of migration coming from Guatemala and a lot of migration coming from El Salvador, the president of El Salvador, boot Kelly. He has been recently getting into fights with us administration over social media, particularly Twitter. So there's really not so much collaboration going on between the United States and those other leaders, hence why it's so important for the United States to finally have someone, I mean, to have someone that Harris can call and talk about some of these issues.

2 (15m 24s):
So

0 (15m 24s):
If this goes, well, it could be something of a, game-changer at least in one country in central America where we're seeing a lot of migrants leaving and making their way up to the U S Mexico border. But that's just one country at the end of the day. Huh?

2 (15m 41s):
Yeah. It's one country at the end of the day. And game changer is an interesting word to put forward because a game change would be like a lasting relationship, you know, and having good cooperation with a leader to a game changer would be, you know, implementing some of the things that Castro wants to implement such as, you know, a special court to investigate corruption. I think the idea of numbers starting to decrease our many years, many, many years away, but you're absolutely right. It's only one country. And, and that shows how big of a challenge this issue is and how big of a challenge it's going to be for the longtime future.

2 (16m 27s):
I mean, any idea or hope that some of this will be resolved by the midterms, just for example, is not gonna, it's not gonna happen.

0 (16m 38s):
And, and how will the Biden administration have to respond if this type of strategy just continues to not work as, as it has for the previous 10 or so years?

2 (16m 50s):
Yeah. I mean, there are those where it's like, why does the United States continue to invest billions and billions of dollars in a part of the world that causes the United States so many problems. But the reality is, you know, the United States has their interests are just too great in central America. I mean, the numbers of people coming to the United States are, are just so high that the United States can't afford to do nothing. The stakes are just too high

0 (17m 31s):
Franco or Don. Yes. He's the white house correspondent for national public radio. You can often hear him on the NPR politics podcast too. I'm Sean Robins from our show today was produced by Halima Shaw edited by Matthew Colette engineered by Paul mousey and his boss, a FIM Shapiro, and fact checked by Laura Bullard. It is today