0 (0s):
Are you ready for it? Taylor Swift's fans were, but Ticketmaster

1 (5s):
Wasn't.

2 (6s):
Ticketmaster announcing that it is now canceling the general public ticket sale for Taylor Swift's first tour. In five years after a chaotic and glitch filled presale event, it was canceled. That's

3 (19s):
So interesting. That means it's never gonna happen again. That's what canceled means.

4 (23s):
The great war has begun between Taylor Swift fans and Ticketmaster.

5 (28s):
Why is Ticketmaster still in business?

6 (32s):
Why? It's like the situation was already bad and it just keeps getting worse. You

7 (38s):
Have one job, it's to sell tickets. Why are you so bad at it? If I were this bad at my job, I would've been fired.

0 (44s):
Swifties still haven't forgiven Jake Gillen Hall. What will they do to live music's biggest monopoly that's coming up on today? Explain. You don't even need a ticket.

1 (60s):
Vultures TV critics spend a lot of time looking for the best tv, which in 2022 has been hard.

9 (1m 8s):
There was certainly a lot of TV more than anyone could humanly watch, but then every so often there would be yes, many nights where I would say like is there just a law and order from 20 years ago that I could watch

1 (1m 20s):
The best TV of the year? And why it's so difficult to find something to watch this week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast.

11 (1m 45s):
What would happen if you just called Taylor up and just say what, just, you know, what happened? How did this go? So South

0 (1m 54s):
Today explained featuring Jason Kebler who's here to tell us how Swifties might finally take down Ticketmaster. Jason's the editor and chief of the motherboard section at Vice, but long before that, he used to be a scalper.

12 (2m 8s):
I kind of fell into it accidentally. I had tickets to see Lincoln Park in high school And at the time I was sort of obsessed with eBay, so I just put them on eBay and they got bit up to, you know, a hundred dollars over what I paid. And I was like, wow, like I can use this to go see some movies or something, hang out with my friends. And so after that I was like, oh, I wonder if I could do this on purpose. I started sort of diving into the world of ticket scalping. Like there are all these secret forums that you pay for access to. And on these forums, people share tips and tricks for how to get tickets, how to access presale passwords.

12 (2m 55s):
There's like all this software that you can use to detect things like ticket drops, which are when a show looks like it's sold out. But then later Ticketmaster releases extra tickets. You'll get like an alert saying, Hey, go buy these right now. I made a decent amount of money for a little while and then I got really disorganized and I started buying tickets to shows I shouldn't have and ended up in a lot of credit card debt that took me five years to pay off. So, but that doesn't mean that people who are good at it don't make a lot.

0 (3m 38s):
So does your familiarity with the Ticketmaster ecosystem mean that you were less surprised last week to see Swifties around the country and the world throw a fit over their inability to get tickets to see their favorite artist?

12 (3m 52s):
I knew this would happen,

0 (3m 54s):
Knew

5 (3m 54s):
You were trouble,

12 (3m 57s):
Like I was positive that this would happen. It's like Taylor Swift is, in my opinion, the biggest, like the hottest ticket that I can imagine at this point. And historically that's been the case too. It's always been really hard to get Taylor Swift tickets for every tour she's ever done.

13 (4m 16s):
Take a look at the crowd at the Staples Center in Los Angeles where Taylor Swift sold out four shows within minutes.

5 (4m 23s):
Well, good evening, Los Angeles.

12 (4m 26s):
It's almost like a ritual at this point. It's like big band or big artist announces a major tour. Tickets go on sale, Ticketmaster either crashes or everything sells out instantly and everyone is freely mad. And then I come in and explain what happens because I've now seen this for a decade and it's the same story every time

0 (4m 50s):
For all the non swifties out there. Could you help us understand what happened last week with this particular tour?

12 (4m 56s):
Taylor Swift announces the ERAS tour and

14 (4m 59s):
It's the news that Swifties have been waiting for. Taylor Swift announcing this morning that she's going on tour.

12 (5m 5s):
It is on the back of her newest album, which everyone really likes seemingly. And basically they announce a series of presales and then a public on sale.

5 (5m 17s):
If you were gonna try to get tickets during Taylor Swift presale, but have no idea what you're doing, this video's for you. So if your internet works a little faster on your phone, maybe use your phone if it works a lot better on your laptop, do that. Once you do that, you'll get a message like this in your inbox just telling you that you have successfully registered for pre-sale.

12 (5m 34s):
So this means that you've bought Taylor Swift tickets in the past. It means that you're part of her fan club. It means that you pre-registered and won a lottery so you get a special password that allows you to buy tickets early.

5 (5m 45s):
If you got selected, you'll get a message like this and basically it'll have your access code as well as a link to the presale. If you don't get tickets, it's okay. Take a breath.

15 (5m 57s):
You'll still have a chance on Friday when they go on sale to the general public. Have fun. I'm so excited.

12 (6m 3s):
They do the pre-sales and even by limiting these pre-sales to, you know, capital One credit card holders, Ticketmaster site crashes.

16 (6m 11s):
Cause it seems to me this thing is breaking down.

4 (6m 15s):
The great war has begun between Taylor's Swift fans and Ticketmaster. Unprecedented demand for the musician's first tour in five years was off the charts and Ticketmaster servers weren't ready for it.

12 (6m 29s):
Millions of people hit Ticketmaster site at the same time. There

5 (6m 33s):
Are 2000 plus people in front of me in line, and a friend of mine who is also waiting in line also has 2000 plus people in front of her. So we didn't get good places in the queue.

17 (6m 44s):
Hi friends in the fifties, you had another update. I am so comfortable with my 2000 plus place in line that I'm walking around my house now. I had a snack. It's going great. Just kidding.

12 (6m 53s):
They sell, I heard 2 million tickets across the country. So tons and tons of people do get tickets.

18 (7m 0s):
I got them, I got the Taylor Swift tickets. I'm paid $126 to be in the section 500, but the truth is, is that I would've paid anything to not be in that queue anymore

19 (7m 8s):
Basis that are easier to get into than Taylor Swift's eras tour. Harvard, the Illuminati area 51

12 (7m 13s):
Atlantis. It's, there was supposed to be this public on sale where basically the plebs can go by the people who don't have, you know, a presale password or this special access can go by tickets. And so lots of Taylor Swift fans are waiting for this public on sale. And last week, the day before the public on sale, which was supposed to be Friday, Ticketmaster announces there's not gonna be a public on sale.

20 (7m 40s):
Ticketmaster canceled the public sale on Thursday, citing extraordinary high demand on ticketing systems and insufficient remaining ticket inventory.

12 (7m 49s):
People go apoplectic like they are so mad because essentially they feel like they didn't ever have a shot at buying these tickets.

6 (7m 58s):
Basically, if you didn't get a code, you didn't even get a chance to buy tickets.

3 (8m 4s):
The thing is, is if you have no tickets, how are you the ticket master? So there's no way that you don't have any tickets left, in my opinion.

0 (8m 11s):
Why were tickets so hard to get for this particular tour?

12 (8m 14s):
The fundamental reason that tickets are so hard to get for something like Taylor Swift is that there are way more people who want to buy tickets than tickets that actually exist. It's like a fundamental supply and demand issue. You have this limited resource, which is seats in its specific venue for a specific time and day to see a human being play a concert. There are millions and millions of Taylor Swift fans and there are just, you know, 50,000 or 80,000 seats in a football stadium.

16 (8m 48s):
Don't blame me. Love me crazy. Doesn't doing it right.

12 (8m 54s):
I wouldn't blame Taylor Swift for this debacle. I think Taylor has done as much as is humanly possible and and continues to do what she can to make sure that the most number of people can see her shows. I think one thing that I should point out is she's playing exclusively in football stadiums, which are the biggest venues that exist in North America, more or less, like by and large football stadiums are the largest venues. Many of them hold 80, 90,000 people and she's playing multiple dates in each city and she's added shows, which is basically all she can do.

12 (9m 34s):
She, she can do her part to sort of increase supply of tickets. And the way that she does that is she just can just keep adding shows until demand comes down. The question is like, what is the ceiling on demand for Taylor Swift? We certainly haven't found it yet.

0 (9m 50s):
And there's also seemingly not much of a ceiling on prices. These tickets were going out from Ticketmaster at, at prices that were shocking people across the internet. Right? Why was that?

12 (10m 3s):
Yeah. Ticketmaster has rolled out this system called Dynamic Pricing over the last few years, which uses an algorithm to predict the demand for any given ticket. It takes historical data for specific artists and specific venues and similar artists and so on and so forth. And essentially attempts to predict the highest price that people are gonna be willing to pay that will still sell out the show. And that really upsets people, although it is successful in sort of stopping ticket scalpers because the higher prices at the outset, the less margin that a ticket scalper is gonna be able to make on the sale of that ticket and the more risk that they're taking on by paying more upfront.

12 (10m 49s):
It seems like dynamic pricing was not used for this Taylor Swift tour. I mean, don't get me wrong, the tickets are really expensive. It's like floor seats are $300, but it seems like they are set at that price versus like one personal pay $300 for a fluoresce and another personal pay $900 for a floor seat.

21 (11m 12s):
Taylor Swift is apologizing to her fans for the disaster. She posted her frustrations on Instagram today saying, I'm not going to make excuses for anyone because we asked them multiple times if they could handle this kind of demand and we were assured they could.

0 (11m 28s):
What does Ticketmaster have to say for how this all went down?

12 (11m 33s):
Ticketmaster's line, and this has been their line for a long time, is that there are more people who wanna buy tickets than tickets that exist. Sorry, it's just like unprecedented demand, limited resource. Sorry that that's, that's pretty much all they've ever had to say.

0 (11m 55s):
Taylor Swift might be the one artist with enough cache and power and fans to actually change this. Could she?

12 (12m 8s):
I think that Taylor Swift, if she wants to, can bring a huge magnifying glass to the issue that Ticketmaster is a monopoly. In the past, bands like Pearl Jam and Bruce Springsteen have called out Ticketmaster for its ticketing practices. Pearl

22 (12m 30s):
Jam played Capitol Hill on Thursday as guitarist Stone Gossard and Basses Jeff Amme we're at the House of Representatives to begin three hours of testimony about Ticketmaster.

23 (12m 40s):
It is well known in our industry that some portion of the service charges Ticketmaster collects on its sale of tickets is distributed back to the promoters and the venues. It is this incestuous relationship and the lack of any national competition for Ticketmaster that has created the situation we're dealing with today.

12 (12m 55s):
And I think that Taylor Swift is of the level that if she wanted to to call attention to this issue, there would be hearings. There's already politicians who say that they want this investigated like AOC saying that the Ticketmaster Live Nation monopoly should get broken up. I think this is a flashpoint and I think that Taylor Swift is so popular that this isn't going away.

0 (13m 23s):
Jason Keebler Vice, he's got a podcast called Cyber the People versus Ticketmaster in a minute on today. Explain.

24 (13m 40s):
Okay, so we'll open the champagne. So when you're in sommelier school, they teach you that the pop shouldn't be no louder than a nun's fart. A

25 (13m 52s):
Pop that's no louder than a nun's fart. That's the sound. That means there's gonna be a celebration

26 (13m 57s):
That's right around the world. December is often party time and we here at Gastropod are celebrating in style.

25 (14m 3s):
We've got a two-part special mini-series for you this month with the stories behind two of these special occasion treats Caviar, and of course Champagne. Gastropod

26 (14m 13s):
Is the podcast that looks at food through the lens of science and history. So we are going to get to the bottom of why the eggs from a massive dinosaur looking freshwater fish are one of the most expensive foods in the world.

25 (14m 24s):
And why champagne is in a different league to other fizzy wines like Kava and Prosecco.

26 (14m 29s):
We also discover why champagne's bubbles were originally considered a flaw and how to give a sturgeon an ultrasound.

25 (14m 35s):
Come join the party, find Gastropod and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

27 (14m 43s):
I'm Christopher Bon Bananas. I'm the city editor of New York Magazine where I work on curbed and vulture and sometimes Intelligencer and sometimes the print magazine. We declared August Hot Garbage Month because August in New York City is all about the Sinky garbage. The centerpiece of Hot Garbage Month was a feature by Justin Davidson, who is our architecture critic and classical music critic. He just followed our trash. When you put a bag out of the curb, where does it go? The thing we have always aimed to do from the very beginnings of New York Magazine is to entertain while we're giving you something much meatier underneath, there's something profound about the fact that 300 years into our existence as a city, our garbage solution is mostly to continue to put it into a hole in the ground.

27 (15m 27s):
And it really ought not to be that way. And people ought know this.

1 (15m 32s):
Get stories like Voyage of the Gross and everything else, New York for up to 70% off through the end of the year. Head to ny mag.com/holiday and you'll also get our editor approved Tote bag plus a set of limited edition stickers with any annual subscription.

16 (15m 56s):
The Cuba, it must be exhausting waiting both. I really wanna go

0 (16m 16s):
Back at it with today explained onto the anti-monopoly case against Ticketmaster and its parent company Live Nation, a case that Taylor Swift has breathed new life into and a case that Morgan Harper from the American Economic Liberties Project has been on for a while now.

9 (16m 33s):
So I work for an organization that's an anti-monopoly organization and we had done some research that identified Live Nation Ticketmaster as one of the key monopolies that were a problem in the economy and that the government didn't do enough to to stop when they merged in 2010.

0 (16m 51s):
And this problem here, it, it predates Taylor Swift, but it isn't as old as Ticketmaster because this wasn't always as big a problem as it is right now. When does this start to get really problematic?

9 (17m 9s):
Well, there were people as early, you know, as the nineties saying that something was up with Ticketmaster. I mean, you know, in the mid nineties Pearl Jam, if people remember Pearl Jam,

1 (17m 18s):
Pearl Jam versus Ticketmaster Classic

0 (17m 21s):
Battle of Art versus Commerce right

9 (17m 22s):
There. Bruce Springsteen has spoken out about this issue before. What really started to accelerate a lot of the harms was when Ticketmaster and Live Nation came together in 2010. So before that merger, Ticketmaster controlled about 70% of the ticketing market. But when you combine them with Live Nation that also is managing artists and running tours, you know, running the promotional companies that organize tours, well then you start to have a vertical integration that is a tremendous amount of power and, and it's very difficult for anyone to compete with that

28 (17m 53s):
Company exact day. The deal will revive the music industry by making everything more efficient.

0 (17m 58s):
Does anyone speak up in the moment?

9 (18m 0s):
A ton of people we're speaking up. I mean that's, that's almost what makes this kind of crazy. I mean it's, you know, it's great to see the momentum right now, but there've been so many people, independent venue owners, artists, consumer advocates that were ringing the alarm about the dangers of this merger leading up to to 2010.

29 (18m 20s):
Their companies are both Goliath. So their unification will create a business with extraordinary market power and clout, unlike any that I've ever seen in my lifetime.

9 (18m 31s):
And they were ignored. The Department of Justice was asleep at the wheel. You know, we would argue and said, you know, Hey Ticketmaster Live Nation, you make a little changes here, divest a little bit here and we're just gonna let this proceed and wink wink. We think, you know, it'll, it'll not be anti-competitive if you say so. So they negotiated this consent decree and Live Nation Ticketmaster has pretty much been blowing through it since then.

0 (18m 55s):
I think a lot of people just want to get tickets without paying a ton of fees and, you know, getting like placed in some 12 hour queue online at 10:00 AM How does Ticketmaster and Live Nation make that experience worse for people?

9 (19m 15s):
Essentially, you know, when an artist says that they're gonna go on tour, well there's a company that is managing that tour for them and then the company decides which ticketing service they're going to use for that tour. And certain venues, some of which Live Nation owns, they actually now also own venues. They say, if you wanna come to our venue, well then you have to use Ticketmaster. And then once you're in the throes of the monopolist, right, well then you're stuck and they're gonna start being able to charge fees and they're gonna include these service fees that, you know, in some cases up to 78% of the ticket. And what is that money going towards? Who knows? Cuz they don't have to tell you because they know that that artist and the the fan doesn't have anywhere else to go if they wanna attend that concert.

9 (20m 1s):
So that's kind of, you know, how this works is it's, it's contracts, it's somewhat in the background, but then what it trickles down to is fans and consumers having a really bad experience in not totally understanding why. But it's the monopoly behavior behind that that is, you know, they're engaging in anti-competitive tactics.

0 (20m 25s):
How does Live Nation and and Ticketmaster respond to the claim that they control way too many levels of this market?

9 (20m 36s):
You know, the, the key response is one that you will often hear from monopolist. They, they will most directly point to some other company that is in the market that people have heard heard of. So in this case, I would say, you know, live Nation Ticketmaster often will say we can't possibly be a monopoly. There's another company that does things like we do a e G. And so how could it possibly be that we're a monopoly when there's another company? Right? And that is such a ridiculous argument because, you know, we don't have all of the exact data, but let's say aeg, you know, maybe controls 20% of the market. It's absolutely the case that there can be other companies that are operating, but none of them are even coming close to the amount of market share that Live Nation Ticketmaster controls.

9 (21m 24s):
And more importantly, they are not controlling all these different business streams that we described. And so that's what really makes this monopoly like power so, so dangerous to anyone else who is trying to make money in the live events industry, is that they're vertically integrated, they're multiple lines of business and they have all this data that's overlaying everything that they can then use for anti-competitive purposes against anyone who, who becomes a threat.

0 (21m 50s):
And we found out late last week that the Justice Department has in fact opened up an anti-trust investigation into Ticketmaster and Live Nation, which is of course ironic because over 10 years ago they had no serious qualms with this merger. What do you expect to come of this investigation and what does the solution look like? Is it breaking up Live Nation and Ticketmaster? Is it reducing their, their share of this market? What is it?

9 (22m 18s):
So, you know, it's a little early to say exactly what that, what that would look like. But here's here's the distinction, you know, with the, the 2010 merger that was approved, a lot of what came about in the consent decree, which is essentially like negotiated settlement of like, okay, we're gonna let this go through, but here are the terms that you have to agree to. Right? And a lot of those were what are called behavioral remedies, which really just says like, okay, you know, you need to promise to us that you're not going to retaliate against your independent venue competitors or something like that, for example, right? And so what we have now is the ability to actually sue and say, Hey, one, you're not complying with the terms of the consent decree potentially, or at a very minimum, you know, this investigation is gonna look into the potential for what are called structural remedies, actually looking at potentially divestitures that, you know, they need to get rid of certain lines of business.

9 (23m 11s):
And

0 (23m 11s):
It's not just the Department of Justice that's looking into this, there's legislative action in the works too, right? I believe Amy Klobuchar really hates Ticketmaster.

30 (23m 22s):
So that's where I wanna put Ka Swift fans. Yeah, right on that. Exactly right on antitrust, because that story of Ticketmaster separate from the tech companies, that is a story of a monopoly gone

9 (23m 33s):
Wild. Yeah, there are a lot of people on the hill. So actually, yeah, Senator Klobuchar, Senator Blumenthal, they sent a letter that was calling out some of the issues with Live Nation Ticketmaster and they've both reiterated their concerns about the, the merger and the monopoly like power. That, that the company has a

30 (23m 49s):
Lot of questions. It is not just about Taylor Swift, right? This has been going on. It's about prices, hidden fees that are way too high. It's about site disruptions and the kind of thing, and of course you could anticipate it, but where else you gonna go to sell your tickets when there's only one game in town?

9 (24m 5s):
And then there are a lot of state attorneys general. So that's this whole other layer of activity that's been happening over the past few days as there's been so much attention, you know, with the Taylor Swift tour that we're seeing ags in Tennessee and North Carolina saying that they're gonna be looking into this issue and, and they're hearing from a lot of their constituents.

0 (24m 24s):
And the, the Swifties on the Today explain team inform me that she's the kind of artist who really cares about her reputation and ultimately, if, if she ends up helping solve this issue, it might just give her the most relevant legacy of any artist ever.

9 (24m 41s):
I mean, hey, I, I'm a convert. Let's do it.

0 (24m 51s):
Morgan Harper is the director of policy and advocacy at an anti-monopoly organization called the American Economic Liberties Project. It's part of the Breakup Ticketmaster Coalition. This today explained episode was produced by Amanda Lou Ellen Swifty, edited by Matthew Collette, Swifty fact checked by Matthew and Laura Bullard

16 (25m 12s):
Swifty, adjacent,

0 (25m 14s):
Mixed, and mastered by Paul Robert Mosey, I mean Swifty and hosted by me. I'm Shawn Ramas for a more of a Beyonce guy myself. But let me tell y'all something about scoring tickets to live events. All you ever really have to do is show up the night of the show with a sign that says, looking for one ticket. And I promise you, no matter what the show, no matter what tickets are going for on StubHub the week before or the day of, you will find yourself a seat. Happy Hunting

16 (25m 47s):
Dreams. Are you ready for it? I was a first time that he saw me Hartson Front and nothing that, sorry. But if I'm a, you can join the heist to an island and he can be my jail.