1 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from another show brought to you by Marketplace called million bazillion. It's in partnership with the people at brains on million bazillion is a new podcast for kids, but also their families it's all about money how it works how we use it where it comes from and how we could all get a little bit smarter about it. But in a fun way million bazillion helping dollars, make more sense. Listen And subscribe wherever you listen And

3 (26s):
subscribe.

1 (32s):
President Trump is making good on his threat to crack down on two popular Chinese own social media apps. He's signed executive orders Banning Tick-Tock and WeChat from operating in the u.s. Within 45 days. Unless they're sold. The president is at war with Tick-Tock. He's threatening to ban the social media platform best known for bringing the youngs together to lip-sync and dance and

3 (55s):
harmony.

1 (60s):
But there might be a way

3 (1m 1s):
out a source confirms to NBC news that Microsoft is in talks to purchase it from its Chinese owner. Tick-Tock has 100 million users in the United States. But President Trump is

1 (1m 11s):
not one of them tick tock on the clock.

3 (1m 17s):
I'm Anna al-fatih. I'm Paul Mound Z. I'm Cecilia. Like I'm Halima saw a mood Sadie.

1 (1m 22s):
I'm a theme Shapiro. I'm Bridget McCarthy. I'm no I'm hassenfeld. I'm Jillian

3 (1m 27s):
Weinberger. I'm Liz Kelly Nelson find the mysterious brake master cylinder

1 (1m 32s):
and I'm Sean Rama's Borough. That story is ahead on today exploring. Shireen Guevara, you've been covering Tick-Tock for recode and vaux how far back does the president's beef with this social media platform. Go.

3 (1m 51s):
So the beef with tick tock goes, you know somewhat far back because as early as last year the US government has been investigating Tick-Tock over National Security

1 (2m 1s):
concerns a company compromised by the Chinese Communist Party knows Where Your Children Are Knows what they look like with their voices sound like what they're watching and what they share with each

3 (2m 12s):
other so, you know for a while now, there's been this kind of floating concern in National Security circles. That is something going on with Tick-Tock that the government should be worried about but Trump has really escalated the attacks on Tick-Tock this summer we're looking at Tick Tock. We may be banning Tick-Tock. We may be doing some other things are a couple of options and so did Pompeo

1 (2m 35s):
submission status to protect Americans National Security and in this case the information of American citizens and so whether it's tick tock or any of the other Chinese Communications platforms apps infrastructure that this Administration has taken seriously the requirement to

3 (2m 52s):
protect and now you know, he's said that again with kind of increased

1 (2m 56s):
urgency and why exactly does President Trump have like this increasing beef with Tick Tock. Does it have anything to do with that rally where turnout was kind of low in the The Tick Tock teens claimed responsibility.

3 (3m 7s):
Buddy, so it's hard to say exactly what is making Trump escalate the attacks, but it is true that back in June the New York Times reported that teenage Tick-Tock users pranks Trump and this epic way and that they said they were going to attend his rally in Tulsa Oklahoma and signed up an online form saying they were going to attend but then didn't show up on purpose guys. Donald Trump is having a rally next week and it's free. All you have to do is give your phone number and you can get to take Good, so I got two tickets, but I totally forgot that I have to pick every individual piece of land off of my room floor and sort them by size so I can totally kit for Friday.

3 (3m 52s):
Oh, well, I already got the tickets. And if you remember that was a rally that Trump was expecting a really large turnout for he didn't sort of get the turnout that that is team was expecting the City's Fire Marshal estimated attendance at b200 the arena holds 19,000 and the campaign had boasted 1 million had requested tickets these teens basically took credit for that at least in part and said that they helped kind of falsely inflate the attendance numbers that Trump was expecting you could see how you know, that may have irked someone so who knows hard to say, that's the thing that really made Trump said there are larger and serious National Security concerns predating this rally and it's hard to say like how Much exactly The Tick-Tock teens were really the ones responsible for that lower than expected turnout, but it certainly you know, Tick-Tock has been a place where where the kids have been sort of poking fun at Trump and trying to be a thorn in his side.

1 (4m 50s):
I mean we laugh about the president's numbers at this Tulsa rally, but is there a chance that there could be some sort of election interference via Tick Tock. Is there a chance that this might have something to do with the 20/20 election?

3 (5m 3s):
I've definitely heard the worried that because so many. Young people are engaged on Tick-Tock and they're getting their information there that if there were to be some kind of misinformation campaign by a foreign government The Tick-Tock would be a place where they could try to exploit these young people's eyeballs the most serious proven concern I've seen about Tick-Tock so far has been that the app was storing people's clipboard data, which means when you go into like copy paste something on your phone that Tick Tock as part of its like permissions that you give an app as the security permissions. It was it was store. Saying that and receiving that data and then you know, it wasn't just Tick Tock a bunch of other apps also have been found to do this.

3 (5m 44s):
And once it was brought to tick tocks attention. They said they stopped doing it. So that's that's been kind of the most serious concern that I've seen is proven so far and about these bigger like can Tick Tock, you know mess with the elections. I think all of that at this point is speculation, but it certainly there and it's certainly being used by President Trump as a way to show that he is getting tougher on China, right? It and that this election is definitely one of the themes of it is going to be, you know u.s. Versus China and which potential president is tougher on that in 2020.

1 (6m 16s):
What about concerns over free speech on Tick Tock? There's been allegations that they're censoring stuff. Right?

3 (6m 22s):
So there's a lot of concerns a lot of allegations but not a whole lot is really proven yet. What has been the cause for some concern is that if you remember the Hong Kong Independence protest when they were really heating up about a year ago, you know, Washington Post Port looked into how much content would show up on Tick Tock when you searched for a hashtag like free Hong Kong and they found that there was not a whole lot showing up now to talk has denied that was because of any kind of censorship, you know may have been the case that just people on Tick Tock or not as interested in the Hong Kong protests, but other examples, you know, we did see there was a report in the guardian that there were some content moderation guidelines that Tick-Tock was using that sort of discouraged content moderators from Letting contents a up that's about things like Tiananmen Square.

3 (7m 11s):
And so it seemed like at least from those guidelines that were leaks that content moderators were kind of taking down content that may have been anti-china. But again, you know content moderation guidelines can be, you know, really Broad and it's not necessarily true that it was just about the China content. So without having full access to like the extent of all the behind-the-scenes content moderation operations of tick tock we can't really say for sure if they're only You know if they're single-handedly doing the Chinese government's work of trying to moderate or take down things that upset the government.

1 (7m 43s):
So we don't know for sure whether Tick-Tock is harvesting Americans data, and it sounds like we don't even really know for sure whether Tick-Tock is intentionally in purposefully censoring anti-chinese speech on its platform though. There are some hints that it might be but we do know for certain that the president has signed this executive order to ban this app within 45 days and something like that has never Happened before right? No it is,

3 (8m 10s):
you know, this would represent if kicks off dead. Somehow get band that would really be an unprecedented kind of restriction of the free and open internet as we know it and then in the u.s. I mean something like that has just really never happened before we've seen more like business kind of Chinese operations such as like the Huawei, but that's a lot different than the ending a A consumer app that a hundred million us users. Use there might be a way

1 (8m 47s):
to save tick tock. more with Shireen after the break My name is Matt little I'm state senator for district 58 in Minnesota. I used to talk because it's an extension of how I communicated with people when I was mayor of Lakeville. My Mantra was was that I will communicate with you on whatever platform you want to communicate on. So if you sent me a letter to my office, I'd send you a letter back email the email called a call and now Tick Tock because younger Generations wanna talk and interact and do.

1 (9m 31s):
Six on six hot. What's up political Tick-Tock? It's Matt little your favorites state senator. I always get asked the question. Like what is the best way to make change? You know, if I'm in high school and what I would say is, you know, don't send a message if it's not going away. You know, it's just like Vine I'm going away, you know people adapt there will always be another social media app that that hits it big and so I think if you're in politics and you want to talk to the Next Generation or different audiences, you got to be ready. So as soon as we got the threat of the band a week ago, we signed up for bite dubsmash trailer will be ready on whatever is next before I take all the credit for this.

1 (10m 19s):
I want to make sure that I think my two staff people that helped me a lot with my Tick Tock account and their names are a me and Christian. Please make sure to give them some love to for having to film all ridiculous videos support for the show today comes from the Michelle Obama podcast, which is out now on Spotify and just Spotify. So don't go looking for it. Wherever you get your podcasts. This one isn't there. It's just on Spotify.

1 (10m 59s):
Okay, the series brings listeners inside the former first lady's most candid and personal conversations showing listeners what's possible when they allow themselves to be vulnerable to open up and to focus Focus on what matters most and maybe you're wondering what matters most Michelle Obama well episodes focus on the relationships that shape us from siblings and close friends to partner's parents and mentors to our relationships with ourselves and our health. You'll be hearing from people like Barack Obama Craig Robinson Michelle's brother Conan O'Brien Michelle's dad.

1 (11m 39s):
Just kidding. He's a comedian Valerie Jarrett, Michelle. Norris dr. Sharon Malone anyway listen to the Michelle Obama podcast on Spotify you can go to Spotify.com / the Michelle Obama podcast

3 (11m 58s):
The cut cut cut the cut the cut podcast is here. Any narrative that says you have to be doing X, I just I just resent that out. Right? I don't know that anybody normally thinks of themselves as being a subject of Envy. Like I certainly don't you

1 (12m 19s):
don't have to always put your views on to somebody

3 (12m 22s):
else. My name is Avery gentleman and every Wednesday, I'll be working with the writers and the thinkers and the Brain Trust at the cut to bring you stories about the moment. We live in the first episode of the cut drops on August. Can subscribe on Apple podcasts or wherever you listen to your podcast?

1 (12m 53s):
Shereen President Trump's executive order states that Tick-Tock would be banned in 45 days. If it is not sold by their Chinese own parent company bite dance and there happens to be a us company that wants to buy tick tock. Why does Microsoft want to buy Tick Tock

3 (13m 13s):
so takes out is a wildly popular app. It has become kind of the crown jewel for social media companies because it's one of the most quickly growing and most downloaded apps. So of course Microsoft a company that doesn't have a popular social media presence would want to gobble it up

1 (13m 32s):
and how popular is it for those who aren't aware.

3 (13m 35s):
So Tick Tock says they have about a hundred million users in the US and hundreds of millions across. The world

1 (13m 40s):
is this like a really easy way for Microsoft to shore up some cool points and be known, you know by the youths for something other than like Bill Gates supposedly inventing the coronavirus or whatever,

3 (13m 50s):
you know, it is true that Microsoft doesn't have that shiny young hot social media app and its portfolio the way that Facebook has Instagram and Google has YouTube and you know Twitter is Twitter. So Microsoft doesn't have that and Tick-Tock could be the way to kind of make Microsoft cool again.

1 (14m 10s):
At Microsoft make Tick-Tock uncool. No shade to Microsoft. But I mean, I mostly think about like Windows XP Pro or something when I think about

3 (14m 22s):
Microsoft what your remember clippy clippy isn't cool. I mean you

1 (14m 27s):
actually underrated. Yeah. No, I remember clippy for sure. I fuck with

3 (14m 31s):
clippy. I think that there's definitely that risk right? We're already seeing like a lot of younger users on Tick-Tock worry. That Microsoft is going to mess it up. It won't be the same and if you get it, you know the kids don't think it's cool. It won't be cool. So it definitely Microsoft runs a risk of like messing up tick-tocks brand. However, Microsoft has bought independent companies that and let them continue to run pretty independently and still keep their user base like the the code platform GitHub or the video game Minecraft. Those actually are companies that are now owned by Microsoft, but you probably you know, you may not know that if you're not following it closely.

1 (15m 10s):
I didn't know. Yeah, okay now by dance tick-tocks parent company might be forced to sell Tick-Tock to Microsoft how might that forced sale work.

3 (15m 22s):
Right? So it's complicated independently of trump. There's actually this interagency government committee called the committee on foreign investment in the United States and they've been investigating to talk for a year now and trying to see if there if those National Security concerns are legitimate and they have the power to actually block business deals involving foreign companies like bite dance in the u.s. So bite dance acquired a us while the acquired another company called musically back in 2017 musically is also based in China, but by chance bought their US based operations as well and took in all their us users and kind of rebranded musically as tick-tock.

3 (16m 10s):
Has become the wildly popular app we know and love today. So this committee this looking into the National Security concerns. They actually have the power to undo that deal and they have blocked and undone major deals before for example last year. They forced the popular dating app Grindr to not sell to a Chinese space company.

1 (16m 35s):
So this government organization the committee on foreign investment in the United States. Or maybe just syphilis which sounds kind of like an ICD isn't just blocking a deal here it sort of creating one out of thin air does bite dance have a choice in whether it sells to tick tock or not.

3 (16m 53s):
Well, there's a lot going on. So it's not just the cepheus committee, but it's also President Trump, you know publicly threatening repeatedly to ban Tick Tock it's you know, bipartisan Senators sending letters that they're concerned about this and they think the Congress should investigate this so You know, there's a whole flurry of political drama going on. That's essentially forcing the potential deal. We're seeing now with Microsoft buying tick-tocks us operations from bite dance. And of course, you know by chance would rather just keep Tick-Tock running the way it is and by dances CEO has come out and said he thinks that the ultimate goal of the US government here is to ban Tick Tock in the u.s.

3 (17m 35s):
In a memo to his Chinese staff that was reported on so, you know, this is not an ideal situation for tick-tocks owners, but this is the political reality that they're dealing

1 (17m 44s):
with which is sell to Microsoft or get

3 (17m 46s):
banned right and not just Delta Microsoft, but sell to Microsoft under conditions that the u.s. Government and Trump agrees to you know, so Trump has given this deadline of 45 days for them to sort it out. So it's by September 15th. And if they feel that Microsoft can't do enough to protect you do us user data and the US National Security interest than the US government. Can block that deal and potentially still try to somehow ban or really limit tick-tocks us

1 (18m 15s):
business. So how much do you get to sell your company for when like the US government is forcing your

3 (18m 22s):
hand. So right now as last reported by CNBC Microsoft's looking at buying Tick-Tock for 10 to 30 billion dollars, and that might sound like a lot but remember that Tick Tock is a hugely valuable company. It has a hundred million, you know of the kind of users and advertisers really want which are largely Young which are engaged in

1 (18m 41s):
creative and that's in the United States

3 (18m 43s):
alone. And that's in the us alone. Right? And so the company was last valued at around 80 billion in the last investor round of tick-tock. And now that was for Tick-Tock International. I believe not just for the u.s. So it may make sense that Microsoft is going to buy only the u.s. Part of Tik toks users for a lower number, but it's very much again. Not the kind of deal that by dance even wanted to be making at this point in the first place

1 (19m 9s):
and the Into that like the US government will take a cut of whatever this deal is. Is he aware of how this works? Is that how it works?

3 (19m 17s):
Yeah. So in kind of an unprecedented statement President Trump said that if this deal were to happen the US government needs to get a cut

1 (19m 27s):
because we're making it possible without us, you know, I use the Expression. It's like the landlord and the Tenant and without the lease the tenant doesn't have the value. Well, we're sort of in a certain way. The lease we make it possible to have this great

3 (19m 42s):
success and you know people were kind of perplexed by what he meant by that because that's kind of just it's not standard. That's probably legal and some say unconstitutional and you know, some people have compared it to kind of borderline extortion. And of course, that's just what Trump said they're, you know, he hasn't actually done anything but you know, some people think that he may have been referring to a kind of sales fee that the US Treasury does make on some of these deals, but The standard fee and it's not something that's negotiable or there you would kind of announce as being an amount that the government has to kind of get out of you for the sale to go

1 (20m 18s):
through. So the president's executive order says that takes off must be sold in 45 days or the app will be banned. Can he actually ban an entire social media

3 (20m 28s):
platform? It's complicated. He can't certainly press a button and turn it off overnight. I mean, even if he wanted to do something like that the quickest probably way to do it would be to get Apple or Android which is owned by Google right the major kind of mobile phone app platforms to just remove tick tock from their App Store, but that's not something that's really ever been done for political reasons in the u.s. Like that at the request of the president and it's not something that Apple or Google especially Apple which has been so guarded about the independence of its App Store not something that happens just going to say yes do even if Trump wanted. So, you know, there's going to be a fool Be of legal and political challenges here.

3 (21m 12s):
If Trump did try to kind of Institute this unprecedented presidential ban on a major consumer app. However, he can make life a lot harder for Tick-Tock and he can do that legally because of these National Security concerns, you know, he has the support of not just some Republicans but also some Democrats and looking into what's going on with Tick-Tock in China and that committee we talked about Sophia's they can An basically force you to talk to break off its us operations and there's other ways. I mean he can issue an executive order. He can use emergency economic Powers Trump can do a lot of things the kind of essentially try to think shanor just limit the business power of tick-tock.

1 (21m 59s):
What would it mean for a hundred million u.s. Users? What would it mean for the

3 (22m 3s):
country? I mean, I think it would mean that there's going to be a serious change. and just the openness of the internet in the US As We Know It And while there may be valid National Security concerns, there's also really big concerns about if that's going to give a kind of dangerous precedent for any president of the u.s. To just ban or turn off an app that they don't like and so that's why you're seeing the ACLU and other civil liberties organizations come out and say that they're against any kind of unilateral ban by President Trump on Tick Tock or consumer apps in the manner that he's Seems to be suggesting. It's

1 (22m 41s):
kind of amazing how this app that's brought us. So many videos of teens dancing to popular songs could end up being the sort of litmus test for our tolerance of free speech in

3 (22m 55s):
America. You have to remember that there's been increasing tensions between China and the US and it's not just about Tick-Tock. It's about the entire technology sector and who's really going to be the number one power in the years to come and Tech is it? Be the u.s. Is it going to be China? This is about a lot more than

1 (23m 13s):
tick-tock. Shireen Jafari writes about technology for Vox you're listening to today

3 (23m 24s):
explained. My name is Jessica Fisher. I'm a tick talker. My Tick Tock at is just Fisher V. And I make all sorts of tick-tocks. They often have to do with being queer and or zodiac signs. I was at a store today and this girl complimented my blouse and I don't think it's an especially cute blouse, but she complimented me and I was like a she hitting on me. How does she know that I'm queer. If Trump could Bend Tick-Tock that would be very upsetting just on a personal level.

3 (24m 8s):
I have 90 thousand followers. I have this fan base that I've that I've created I have made money from my fans, but from my fan base not literally than giving me money, but and a lot of friends of mine and creators that I don't know make their living off of the the Creations they make on Tick-Tock and sponsored posts and cosplayers. And communities so there would be a lot destroyed if Tick-Tock were to be banned because of the communities that it is built and the space is that it is created and the careers that it is created, but I do believe just like with fine people would find other ways.

3 (24m 49s):
Probably they would go to YouTube and I think that a lot of creators would lose their fan base due to that. So II do think that it would be very very upsetting if you were to ban it and it would also be infringing upon freedom of speech. h