3 (1s):
Today today explain.

1 (7s):
Hello. Hi Today's show is going to be a little bit different from all the others before we start. I'm going to ask a favor. I hear some of you listen to today explained at one and a half speed even double speed just today. I'd ask that you slow down you move too fast. You got to make the moment last listen to this episode at regular Earth. Time you will not regret it. Take it away break master.

1 (1m 57s):
Traumas for him. It's today explained and that Bop you just heard was the extended version of our theme by the mysterious brake master cylinder. The song has a name its Valentine. Love you break Master. It's Memorial Day weekend here in the United States, which is sort of The Unofficial start of summer. And any way you slice it this summer is going to be a bit of a bummer for all of us, but one of my favorite things about the season is Summer music the summer song the album you listen to All summer. We play a lot of original music on this show. And whenever we do listeners always text and tweet an email to say yellow where can I find that jam? Well today as little gift for everyone subdued summer.

1 (2m 37s):
We are sharing with you all of the original music we've done on this show in just one place today explained greatest hits. You can download it. You can stream it. We're still working on the vinyl. I'm going to spend the episode walking through a bunch of what we've done with the guy who's done a lot of it today explain producer/reporter original song writer. No, I'm hassle. I felt you know his singing voice. It's this one

3 (3m 2s):
today.

1 (3m 4s):
You've heard that little tag of million times, but I bet a lot of you haven't hurt its source. It's part of the very first thing that was ever in this podcast feed our trailer and how fitting that even our trailer was sort of a song here. It is from way back in February 2018. Okay, so you're leaving the office and you look at your phone and you've got pages of push notifications and alerts and the

3 (3m 27s):
Old

1 (3m 27s):
has changed dramatically while you were working and you're like what is going on? And we're like here's a podcast answer that question. It's called today

3 (3m 36s):
explain from Vox. I'm

1 (3m 38s):
going to host it for you. My name is Shawn Rama's firm

3 (3m 41s):
and we want to answer all those questions. You've been asking

1 (3m 43s):
yourself. Like why does important Rico have power yet or what would a war with North Korea even look like or if people keep walking out of the EPA what happens if there's another Deepwater Horizon we're going to take an issue and give you all the Context you need to know and we're gonna do it every way. We know

3 (4m 0s):
how interviews Clips

1 (4m 2s):
trips radio drama. Maybe

3 (4m 4s):
even a song. Well gotta Travis every afternoon musicals my so we keep his mom saying nevertheless their tapes. Turned it back. Very fine people on both sides reclaiming my time fire and fury Wayne has to say Me too again today.

1 (4m 44s):
Now, I'm hassenfeld. Welcome to today. Explain Greatest Hits. Hello Sean. So we're here to share the original music. I think when sometimes people think of our show and the music they've heard on the show, they'll think of the fun parody songs that you And I have written together and you have performed on the show, but that's not what we're here to talk about today. Yeah. Yeah. I I'm certainly a lot prouder of the original music we made on the show the original music that we somehow fit into a work day producing a daily podcast. And I think what's interesting about the original stuff that often times you've written on the show is that they've come out of these really organic moments. Like there was no plan. We were just having fun and experiencing sort of the joys of production like yeah.

1 (5m 27s):
Matthew yglesias would come into the studio and anytime Matthew yglesias sits down for an interview before we actually hit record and start making stuff. He'll just be like cracking jokes and one time very early on in the history of our show. We were doing an episode about steel tariffs and he just sat down and started humming a song about steel and I think I sent it to you and I said like could we make music out of this and we were just all so blown away by what you make steal don't intend to steal.

3 (6m 16s):
It's heavy. It's strong steel. I'm trying to conform. Steal,

1 (6m 39s):
what a banger. Yeah, I just kind of love imagining Matthew Iglesias leading some kind of industrial Rock Nine Inch Nails kind of band singing about steel dude. The thing that blows my mind about that song listening to it now like years later is just how quickly you did that with this little keyboard that I had like underneath my hoodie behind some cabinet to be fair. I do have Bunch of instruments on the music program on my computer. But yeah, I think it took maybe an hour and a half two hours. Maybe what a beautiful thing that you got paid to make that it no complaints here. Thank you Vox. Thank you Matthew. I want to play a couple more examples of these really organic moments and these two are sort of connected.

1 (7m 21s):
So maybe we can play in back-to-back. I mean, there's been a few instances where you've been at your desk working on something else and I've been sort of at the Vox TV that we always used to huddle around when the president was speaking or there's a big political moment being broadcast live when we had an office when we had an office and you're probably at your desk working on something else, but then I slack you I'm like, yo, the president's declaring like a National Emergency to build a border wall, but he just said this thing about like the travel ban and it sounds really musical. Is there a way we could set this to music or there's just this roll call in Congress. Can we set that to music? And you're like, maybe I think I'm always like definitely not and then

3 (8m 3s):
Ten seconds later. I'm like,

1 (8m 5s):
okay, let's see what happens and we will have a national emergency and we will then be

3 (8m 10s):
sued they will sue us in the ninth

1 (8m 12s):
circuit, even though it shouldn't be there. We will possibly get a

3 (8m 16s):
bad ruling and then we'll get another bed ruling will end up in the Supreme Court and hopefully we'll get a fair shake and we'll win of the Supreme Court just like the band They sued Us in the night circuit and we lost and then we lost in the Appellate Division and Then we went to the Supreme Court and we won that it was very interesting because yesterday they were talking about the ban because we have a band. It's very helpful ninth circuit Fair shape Supreme Court

1 (8m 58s):
just like the band. The clerk will call the

3 (9m 12s):
roll. Mr. Nadler. Hi. Mr. Nadler votes aye mr. Richmond. Mr. Richmond, but she asked mr. Jeffrey's. Mr. Jeffrey Smith. I am mr. Swallow. Yes. Mr. Slovaks. Yes, mr. Liu, mr. Lupo's I mr. Raskin. The Democrats. I'm a secure area, Mr. Curry of those. I miss Scanlon Miss Scanlon vs. Iron Miss Garcia Garcia resign. Mr. Goose. Mr. Magoo suppose. I am mr. Collins. Mr. Collins was no, mr. Sammon, just your job. It was no mr. McLintock. Mr. McClintock votes. No, mr. Lesko votes. No. Mr.

3 (9m 52s):
Klein. Mr. Klein this know, mr. Armstrong. Mr. Armstrong votes. No, mr. Stevie. Mr. Seabrook now. The most is a great.

1 (10m 6s):
Okay. Those are the quick and dirty ones. Now, let's talk about something that took some doing back when Michael Cohen was in the news a lot. I had this idea that it'd be really fun to cover the story in some sort of Noir style. And I remember asking you about it. I was not happy and you were just so not into this idea. And I remember it was like a long week or something and I remember just like lying on the floor with my feet on the desk like not sure how I was ever going to pull this off and somehow we pulled it off. Let's play a slice of an episode called dial see for Cohen and huge shout out to Christina on Amazon who does Graphics at vaux who really made this thing sing and you here in the trailer to she was the one singing in the trailer but not on the weekends.

1 (10m 59s):
So no, I'm what do you--what do you say what do you know? You know Shawn DC is a small town word gets around. Yeah. So what have you been here?

3 (11m 7s):
Can you keep a secret

1 (11m 9s):
does a sack of potatoes cost a nickel been hearing rumors about this Michael Cohen cap something about a phone company Russian oligarch

3 (11m 16s):
Faberge eggs. Amber's a yeah. That's right. See I'm scrambling for answers here,

1 (11m 21s):
huh? The sounds like a job for Pro. Top Cop I thought you were a pi. No. No, I'm Andrew Prokop politics reporter over at Vox. the story really begins in October 2016 Donald Trump who's running for president at the time. This is few days before the election his lawyer. Michael Cohen sets up a shell company called essential Consultants LLC. Cohen sets up this shell company because there's a porn star named Stormy Daniels star me threatening to come forward with a claim that several years ago.

1 (12m 11s):
She had a sexual encounter with Donald Trump Cohen wants to hush her up. So naturally, he makes a deal a nondisclosure agreement in which Stormy Daniels would be paid $130,000. But Cohen didn't want his own name on this paperwork. He basically wanted the money to go through a separate entity. That would be a little more difficult to trace. So he set up essential

3 (12m 45s):
consultants

1 (12m 48s):
and he sent the hundred thirty thousand dollars through essential Consultants LLC to Stormy Daniels lawyer.

3 (12m 57s):
That's the hush money.

1 (13m 1s):
This came out in January 2018, but what we only learned this week is that that's not all essential Consultants

3 (13m 11s):
did

1 (13m 12s):
after Trump won the election Cohen continue to use this same shell company for all sorts of other transactions. Oh, man, you know what? The best part of that was what edu Pro Comp had no idea that he was participating in some audio experiment where we would turn our interview into a Noir like I think we just sent it to him afterwards there were like, what do you think he actually was into it? He actually sent me a picture of Humphrey Bogart when it was all said and done. So I think he was happy with how it came out and he came back on the show like a thousand times after that lots and lots of Prokop. Okay, we gotta take a quick break. But before we do a very important sort of classic message, must

3 (13m 58s):
What are you doing, baby and review it? What are you doing real you and what are you doing? They can review and what are you doing rated and reviewing and one more pick your favorite episode? The soda send it to a friend. What are you doing? What are you doing?

3 (14m 41s):
Explain? Explain?

1 (14m 50s):
You ever feel like Tony Soprano. You just need to like get away from it all and sit down for like a one-on-one therapy session with dr. Jennifer. Melfi better. Help might have your own personal Doctor Jennifer. Melfi. Waiting to help you feel like you're not alone ready to talk about stress depression anxiety isolation better help offers licensed professional counselors who can help to get started you simply fill out a questionnaire to help assess your needs get match with the counseling what? 24 hours after that you can easily schedule secure video or phone sessions with your therapist plus you can exchange unlimited messages get professional help when you want it where ever you are and better help is Affordable right now today explain listeners get 10% off your first month with the discount code explained.

1 (15m 38s):
So why not get started today go to better help.com explained that is better heelp.com explained talk to a therapist online and get um help and maybe some

3 (15m 51s):
gabagool. I'm Sally Greenberg executive director of the national consumers League last year MCL launched consumers for safe CBD in response to the proliferation of untested unregulated CBD products in the marketplace as we all navigate a new normal and it's the covid-19 crisis We are continuing our efforts to help keep you safe and informed there are unfortunately a number of unscrupulous CBD manufacturers and stores that falsely promote medical benefits of CBD products many are taking Vantage of consumers fear and anxiety during this crisis claiming CD can help boost immunity against and even treat covid-19.

3 (16m 33s):
We need the FDA to stop those making false medical claims and encourage further testing of CBD to a we made during science based treatments to Consumers. Learn more at for safe CBD dot-org. Again. That's the number for sa Fe CBD dot o-- r-- g-- paid for by the national consumers League

1 (17m 2s):
We're back at Sean and know I'm and we're talking about the jams the Bops the Beats today explained Greatest Hits know I'm remember when there was an election the the one in a couple months from now. Yeah, that one like but remember before Corona we used to talk about it on the show all the time so much so that I thought you should make little bumpers for the show about the election. Oh, yeah, like the one you called me up at like 9:30 at night one time and just started singing. Yeah. I was like on the sidewalk in Brooklyn getting off the subway. I was like, you know, I just had this idea for the bumper because we were trying to think of something funny the house like what if it's just the numbers

3 (17m 38s):
110 20x20 explain and whenever this one to twelve

1 (17m 50s):
and remember when it was super Tuesday, and we're doing a big super Tuesday episode and and I was like, hey man, could you write us a super Tuesday song? How could I forget? Is that how that happened?

3 (18m 46s):
But then of course this pandemic happened

1 (18m 49s):
and we sort of stopped talking about the election all the time, but you can still thing about a pandemic right? I mean and I think the pandemic is may be responsible for today explains greatest hit of all time like our hotel California. How did you come up with six feet away? I think that was actually the CDC, right? Okay, but but this song how did you come up with a song six feet away? I gotta give credit to my older brother Jonah who thought I would just be the funniest thing to have a love song where both people just have to be 6 feet away but really sung sweetly a love song about social distancing. Hmm. Mmm, you

3 (19m 25s):
need to say six feet away six feet away. You called me twice in Rome asking me out. I said, let's stay

1 (19m 40s):
in

3 (19m 42s):
I don't wanna be alone. So I need you to know I need you to know. 6268 away you were my hands. I would wash you like the CDC says you deserve and if you I would flatten your flatten your fat 66 get away

1 (20m 49s):
the first time I heard that song I remember. Member One just being very impressed because it's beautiful but it's also like got like a sort of sexy vibe to it. Like it made me think of like D'Angelo or something. Yeah. That is nice compliment. Thank you the Angelo. Yeah. I mean it isn't it isn't for the kids. There's a there's a bit of a like an adult sense to that song. But you also have managed to write some pandemic jams for the kids Yeah couple weeks ago. We actually made a really fun kids episode which I produced with vocs. Cast producer bird Pinkerton and she and I and our engineer film Shapiro's son Harvey got together and made a theme.

3 (21m 33s):
Well, well, well, let's try something a little different

1 (21m 58s):
more impressive than that. I think you came up with this really Charming Sing-along song. To wrap up that kids episode that sort of encapsulated all the themes and ideas that were in the episode. I remember it was in the script like insert song to wrap things up. And then you were like, I can't come up with a song. I don't think this is gonna work and then all of a sudden you had this perfect song. How did you come up with it? I just got to give credit to bird here again. I was almost ready to not end it with a song like we'd planned and bird just wouldn't let me cut it. She wrote most of the lyrics my girlfriend Hannah help me come up with a Melody for the song. Ang and I was really happy we did it in the end. Okay, we're gonna play the butts. Why song and then we're going to wrap things up with one of our favorites from an episode we did about this space farce here.

1 (22m 42s):
They are back to back the cave of but why and space farce? No, I'm you're alive. I'm alive and I learned a lot like what like this

3 (22m 53s):
cave it judges answers if they're bad it says but why exactly and the schools they shouldn't let the kids inside why keep the children? Ace and the family safe as well. Why

1 (23m 7s):
isn't it obvious why we want to keep families safe? Yeah. Sorry. I got totally carried away. No problem. So

3 (23m 16s):
kids keep other people safe if they stay home from school why I can't cough on each other. They can't sneeze her spit or drool and not mask those are pretty good. But perfect they are not why cough might still get through so it's best to stay apart. Rat sorry bird, you can't argue with the facts. When I was young I would look up at the stars trying to take in the vastness of it. All I would imagine myself hurtling through the infinite expanse in search of answers to ancient Mysteries ready to fight for a better future ever since I was little I have been a warrior.

3 (24m 10s):
I'm ready to step out into the unknown to take on the ultimate Challenge. I close my eyes. I know where I must go. Thank you for listening today. Explain Greatest Hits is available now on all the streaming service

1 (24m 51s):
Spotify Apple music title. Just search for today explained greatest hits. You can also listen to all the jams. You heard in today's episode and many many more at vox.com today.

3 (25m 3s):
Explain. As you heard no, I'm hassenfeld wrote a bunch of the music for the show. He also produces and reports the mysterious brake master cylinder does a lot of music to they also really miss Fred Willard the theme the dream Shapiro masterminded spacebar. See also engineer's Christina. I'm gonna shun gave that song Life with her voice. She also rocks visuals here at vaux. Liz Nelson is vaux's editorial director of podcast. She helped us put this whole thing together her husband. Custom killer cover art for the album the rest of the day explain team includes Bridget McCarthy. I'm Anna al-saadi Halima Shaw and Jillian Weinberger still you laid checks are facts extra help this week from Paul Mound Z.

3 (25m 49s):
And we grew this week muj is 80 joined us from fresh air. Thanks.

1 (25m 53s):
Terry welcome muj. We are taking Memorial day off to watch the paint dry back on Tuesday. Take care.