3 (1s):
Hi, I'm nilay

4 (1s):
Patel co-founder and editor and chief of The Verge and host of decoder a new podcast from The Verge in the VOX media podcast network of a big ideas and other problems for over a decade. I've been interviewing leaders from the worlds of Technology business and policy about how they run their organizations make decisions and consider policy changes that could fundamentally alter entire Industries with decoder. I'll be expanding these conversations with a diverse cast of CEOs. Policymakers and innovators some you know, and some you wouldn't expect so look for decoder with nilay Patel in apple podcast or your favorite podcast app.

3 (52s):
Happy election day. Did you vote? Maybe you didn't because you've got kids and one of them got sick

2 (60s):
and you were late for work

4 (1m 1s):
and your boss is pissed and then you have to leave any way to take your kid to the

2 (1m 5s):
doctor today. Um,

3 (1m 8s):
and then you have to catch up with all of your work when you got home and then you passed

4 (1m 12s):
out. And you woke up early to the results and felt really guilty and like you let your democracy

3 (1m 19s):
down. If you felt that way you wouldn't be alone only about half of the country typically votes in presidential elections. This year's turnout is looking significantly better maybe as much as 65% will vote but a lot of them will have to deal with super long socially distance lines or deal with male delays or worried about whether their ballot will really get counted. It is not hard to look at our elections and feel like we're doing things wrong. So since our team will be busy voting. Watching results today. We're going to issue a reminder of how our elections could be better. We're going to revisit our episode from the last big us election day.

3 (2m 1s):
The 2018 midterms on that November day. We took you to of all places, Australia.

2 (2m 14s):
Election that I necessarily

4 (2m 15s):
is white on a Saturday. We pioneered survey

2 (2m 18s):
voting. We thought it would be more inclusive. It's a

4 (2m 22s):
festive sort of occasion. It's usually held in schools. There are sausage sizzles sighs of just Fizzles here. They call it the Democracy sausage democracy sausage with 2016 Australian word of the Year polling stations have become much more than a place to cast your vote with families and Charities gathering for sausage sizzles and fundraisers at voting booths. Across Australia, like should happening hot sausage and bread why the guy with some onion. It's the soundtrack of Australia. We had a lady having to so obviously catch with extra sauce for her cat every polling place. Someone's serving

2 (2m 59s):
sausages and serving them to people as they go in to vote all come out and voting and it's just part of our routine. It's the barbecue. It's like a holiday

4 (3m 6s):
occasion. What if you're a vegetarian? Oh, they always had a veggie burger

2 (3m 11s):
these websites beforehand that sort of advertise where they're going to be and where the best sausage Fizzles are going to be and stuff like that all bent or burgers or

4 (3m 18s):
whatever, you know, a lot of guys laugh at a friend's got universal gravitation, but it's it's a major part of your

2 (3m 22s):
business. The queues out long Australians will turn out in their bathing suits literally just a speedo with a bikini. It's not like you have to get time off work or you have these long queues in the state. They're only in there for 10 minutes or something and then they're out.

4 (3m 37s):
It sounds really fun. What if you're elderly or you sprained your ankle and you can't make it to the

2 (3m 42s):
party we have mobile. Postal polling we can have pre polling you can have assisted polling. So we've got electoral commission's here that are very well funded and they're also scrupulously independent. So their job is to maximize voting inclusions, whatever if you're approaching maternity, they'll bring out voting papers to the hospital. I take them out to prisons. I take matter remote areas. So indigenous people can

4 (4m 6s):
vote Houston election offices are crisscrossing the state covering thousands of kilometers with ballot papers in hand.

2 (4m 13s):
We have 95% sent voting participation here. You just let them know and they will help

3 (4m 17s):
you. Lisa Hills a politics professor at the University of Adelaide in Australia a place where voting is a party and they'll literally bring the polling station to you

2 (4m 29s):
gladly there's nothing. I like more than getting your vote. It's not like you have to register as a particular, you know a Democrat or Republican. There's no ID requirements. It's an honor System. It's got very low levels of corruption extremely high levels of trust in the outcome. So you never sort of have contested outcomes because The electric emissions are so squeaky clean and organized extremely organized and extremely a political as

3 (4m 55s):
well. You mentioned Australia has 95 percent turnout as it made government work any better.

2 (5m 2s):
Yeah, for example in the 90s. It was a terrible Massacre gun massacre here. One of the most infamous days in Australia's history Martin Bryant shot that 35 people of Port Arthur changed the lives of many others forever. They tightened the laws on gun ownership. A ship much more strictly. Yeah, and then they got all the guns out of the system by buying guns back from people and Australians got together and agreed to this is a good idea and they all surrender their guns

4 (5m 28s):
Australia's government confiscated and destroyed nearly 700,000 Firearms reducing the number of gun owning households by half.

2 (5m 38s):
Governments responsive and we expect action and we get it sounds nice because without yeah, it's not rocket science governments are responsive to voters. And if everybody's voting you're going to have a more agile and responsive

3 (5m 50s):
Parliament and what happens when you don't what would it look like if Australia had 50 percent voter

2 (5m 54s):
turnout, we look like America

4 (5m 56s):
might

2 (5m 58s):
want that. I'm sorry. I know you love your country, but we don't want you to resent turnout. We want the porter vote. We want homeless people to vote. We want indigenous people to vote. We want people with disabilities to vote. We want everyone to vote.

3 (6m 13s):
What do you think happens in a democracy? When say half the people aren't voting Why is voting so important for the entire population?

2 (6m 20s):
First of all, whenever you've got turn out the dips below sort of 80 even 90 automatically your turnout will be

3 (6m 28s):
uneven. It'll just be prosperous people voting. Hi miners generally white people

2 (6m 37s):
people for whom English is the first language the worst after you are the less likely you are to vote in a low turnout election, and we all know the government just directs its attention to voters. So when the poor don't vote the government just gives tax breaks to the rich and everything else to the rich and middle class people as well. So poverty starts becoming trench certain minorities just can't get out of this vicious cycle of It meant to collect then they feel the government elections that I want to vote. The more apathetic you get the less likely you are to vote and everyone gets themselves into a vicious cycle.

3 (7m 10s):
Sounds like a really good reason to make voting mandatory.

2 (7m 12s):
It is a good reason to make voting man treats funny. You should mention that Shawn because voting is mandatory

3 (7m 17s):
here. This whole time. I thought we were talking

4 (7m 27s):
about sausage sizzles and bringing your swimming trunks to the voting stations, and I thought it was just a big party in Australia, but it's totally mandatory to its mandatory and a big party night. Ha ha ha coming up on the program how Australia convinced an entire country. It had to vote and could we do that here in these United States?

3 (8m 9s):
This episode of today

4 (8m 10s):
explained as brought to you by a vast a global leader in cybersecurity trusted by over

3 (8m 14s):
435 million users. We're spending more time online than ever these days which means we're exposed to more risk to a vast secure browser is

4 (8m 25s):
the easiest way to keep yourself safe as you

3 (8m 27s):
move around online and it also loads up to four times faster than your current go to browser. Here's how a vast secure browser automatically blocks online ads to drastically improve website.

4 (8m 39s):
Download times and with Advanced security measures built right into the browser. You can safely browse shop and Bank online without ever thinking twice about whether or not it's safe with advanced anti-phishing technology forced encryption

3 (8m 52s):
and multi-layered shields against online tracking a

4 (8m 55s):
vast secure browser is the fastest safest way to

3 (8m 58s):
live your life online. Don't worry about viruses phishing attacks ransomware hacking attempts or cybercrime because Avast has your back learn more more about

4 (9m 9s):
Avast privacy

3 (9m 10s):
security and performance products at a

4 (9m 12s):
vast.com

3 (9m 15s):
This is Mark Lacy National editor at the New York Times as we head into a pivotal election. It's our mission to find answers to the questions you have. That means analyzing what the candidates are saying, but it also means looking deeply at the issues from an economy under stress to a national Reckoning on racism every day. We do the research so we can help you make an informed decision. None of this work would be possible without our subscribers if you'd like to subscribe to the times go to nytimes.com.

4 (9m 55s):
When exactly did compulsory voting passed in Australia out of this happen,

2 (9m 60s):
it's been mandatory since 1924 in federal elections and earlier than that in state elections in the twenties. Turnout dip to below 60 will freaking out that is egregious that was debated for 15 minutes. That's it in the parliament. It went like this. That sounds like a good idea. So we introduced She's hiding in at shut up 95 in the first election or something like that.

4 (10m 24s):
How did I Stray Leah react where people upset where people please to immediately start voting. How did introducing compulsory voting change voter

2 (10m 33s):
turnout? I think there was a bit of grumbling that because we had compulsory voting then we decided we were going to have really well-funded electoral commission's so we have these electric emissions that made the elections quite Pleasant and easy. We already had the Saturday voting and then when everyone saw had turnout Rose government responsiveness Scott, Got better and it got more responsive to everybody people just fill out. This is not a bad deal

3 (10m 57s):
people have to vote what happens if they don't vote.

2 (10m 59s):
You can't make people feel like they're criminals when they fail to vote. Sure. What happens is the electric commission sent you a letter and says, I noticed you didn't vote and if you send a letter back saying I was sorry about that. I was sick. It's not a system. They don't check you don't have to give a medical certificate. I had an accident. Okay, but if you don't respond to their letter, then you get a $20 fine. And that actually works that's enough to make it work. Yeah, I mean because it's kind of symbolic it symbolizing that it's the law if you don't follow up it doesn't work, but you've got to follow up in a way that's Not alienating people and making them feel like they're a criminal it's not criminal activity failing to vote. But you do have to vote because we all have to pitch

3 (11m 41s):
in what happens. If you don't pay that $20

2 (11m 43s):
fine, then it goes up to $50. Uh-huh. And then if the third find you don't pay then you get summons to court but so there's people that are exempt for example, if you're homeless you exempt from being required to vote and also you don't get fined but usually doesn't people just usually just pay the $20 fine.

3 (11m 59s):
Is there any chance you could go to jail for not voting in Australia?

2 (12m 2s):
A couple of people in the past who spent like a day in jail, you know, I think that's a bit much myself that hasn't happened for decades. Okay, but it has happened a couple of times and some people have deliberately got themselves put in jail. That's the

3 (12m 14s):
thing. You mentioned earlier that that the government is more responsive in Australia may be as a result of compulsory voting but it's not like compulsory voting will fix all your problems like poverty and Corruption,

2 (12m 27s):
right? We have a poverty we've got corruption, but just not as much as you That's all I mean. I'm very sure if we didn't have mandatory voting here. We'd have turnout levels in the 60s. It's not like we see these awesome super people that are better and nicer than everyone else, but the law has created these Norms around civic duty and responsibility. It's just like a nudge in the same way like you made to wear your seatbelt you feel that it's paternalism, but in retrospect after you have a smash you can see that wasn't a bad idea because if you ask people how they feel about it. Between 70 and 75 percent of Australians no matter what's going on. They'll still say that they think compulsory voting is an okay idea and there's always going to be around 30% that don't like it but the feeling isn't strong enough to want to get rid of it because people aren't a hundred percent sure.

2 (13m 16s):
They would like the results. I

3 (13m 17s):
think do you think implementing a system like that would work here the way it seems to have worked in Australia in the 1920s?

2 (13m 24s):
Yes, it would work extremely well and I've written a paper on this and in the paper I've argued and I think I've shown it. There's no reason why you couldn't Have it because some people say they were constitutional impediments or all kinds of other impediments. You can say that all you like. It's not unconstitutional but there'd be so much resistant because it seems like such an alien idea to people that haven't grown up with it. Your rights culture is more pronounced than ours. We're not so big on our constitutional rights and our individual rights because we're more of a parliamentary culture. It's like it was easier to take guns away from us as well. I think it could work very well in the states and it would solve so many of the problems you're having there. Be honest, your problems will be solved if minorities voted if the poor voted, you know, not all problems can be solved by voting who we kidding but a lot of problems would be at least ameliorated if everybody

3 (14m 15s):
voted. I can see a lot of people if the United States federal government for instance was to impose compulsory voting saying you can't tell me what to do. This is America, the federal government does not tell me where I need to be at any time or day

2 (14m 29s):
people always say things like well Democracy is supposed to be about Freedom. It's supposed to be about volunteerism. But you know, I always say well first of all voluntary activity is not the defining feature of democracy self-government is the people being Sovereign and the people really can't be Sovereign if they're not all there and then when they're all there you get these other kinds of freedoms Unleashed freedom to be treated without discrimination by your government instead of government Pork barreling and pandering to the well-off freedom to Have a decent standard of living freedom to have free schools a good example is taxation, which of course is quite a big infringement on personal freedom sure much more so than voting but we sort of recognize that we need to pay our taxes if we want to go on a road or get anywhere.

2 (15m 19s):
It's no point in having all your own money. If you can't go anywhere, you know, and it's not safe. You don't have security or you don't have basic services or jury duty or compulsory school education. These are all far more burdensome. Positions on personal autonomy, but most people sort of accept them because they see that there's a collective benefit from it and they couldn't really live a decent life unless they gave up some freedoms and contributed the tax or contributed to the jury system or sent their children to school or whatever. This is how you get democracy to work.

3 (15m 47s):
I wonder you know, one thing I feel like compulsory voting wouldn't fix is the fact that a lot of people in this country and I'm sure that country don't know a whole lot about their candidates who are running for office or the Ian's and platforms of their candidates has compulsory voting in Australia done anything to fix or dress that yeah.

2 (16m 9s):
It makes people more alert people actually do know more about their candidates here and it not just here but in other compulsory voting regimes so living in a compulsory voting regime makes you more politically sophisticated because they know they can have two votes. They just pick up a lot of incidental information Jill Shepherd who's a political scientist here someone I know she's done a study that's shown that as well. So it makes you smarter and more informed as well. But that the standards of comportment around elections, I think are a bit higher here. I'm sorry. I don't mean to insult your country.

3 (16m 40s):
I'm not really insulted but somehow I feel like you're not done insulting the United States, but what other countries have tried compulsory voting it's not just Australia is it?

2 (16m 48s):
No, I mean the Netherlands headed and they went along very merrily then they got rid of this could knows wine and I think a lot of people regretted it, huh Belgium still has its Costa Rica Vanuatu is and Samoa just moving to it to fight. It corruption, huh? There's lots of different places that have had it at various times. But you know, it's a bit hard to say unless it's sort of enforced the two best examples would probably be Belgium and the Netherlands who did enforce it, but they had high levels of satisfaction with it as well. You've got to do it a certain way. Otherwise you just going to alienate people. He

3 (17m 22s):
said the Netherlands had it but then got rid of it. Why did they get rid of it?

2 (17m 25s):
Well, I just had a brain fart. I mean, it's no good reason. What usually happens is a party on the right. Gets into power and then they just maneuver to get rid of it. That's under threat here all the time by different parties that try and get rid of it. Really? Yes because they want to control the sort of people that might vote but here the party's on the right and a hundred percent sure it work for them. But in other places they feel secure that if they got rid of compulsory voting less poor people would vote which is true. Hmm. It's not that hard to do if it's if it's not enshrined in the Constitution, which it is in here and I don't think it was there. It's just an act Of parliament, but then once you get rid of it, it's very hard to bring back

3 (18m 5s):
in. Are there any other ideas out there alternatives to compulsory voting that would increase turnout? Yeah,

2 (18m 12s):
there's a million things you can do. You can move voting to a Saturday. You can put polling booths in shopping malls. You can give people incentives to vote. Although that's unconstitutional in Most states and here too. But some American states have tried it my free donuts or free Chiropractic adjustment to vote. But all the things that I could make a list of to stimulate turnouts if you did them all at once you still wouldn't get the same effect that you get just with compulsory voting. That's the only thing on its own that can raise turn out into the 90 plus percentage range and it's the only thing that will keep it there.

3 (18m 48s):
It certainly sounds like a great idea and it certainly seems like intrinsic to democracy and yet so many democracies were built without compulsory voting. Why do you think that

2 (18m 59s):
is what an element is actually a good question? Question, I don't know why but democracy is crumbling. I mean look outside your window mate.

4 (19m 10s):
There.

2 (19m 10s):
Was this really in a bit of a I'm sorry. It's not a very good shape. And so this is something that can save you

3 (19m 17s):
democracy. Democracy is not a constitutional form. It's an activity it's performative and we all have to perform it because what people forget is to be a real democracy a true

2 (19m 36s):
democracy of the People by the people for the people has to be formed by the people and

3 (19m 40s):
democracy

2 (19m 42s):
requires work. Not much work just a little bit of work. And if everyone does their fair share just do it ten minutes. It's off to the beach. That's all there is

3 (19m 53s):
a sausage

2 (19m 53s):
Sizzle a sausage your bathers. I'm a swear to God. I've got pictures of people in their bathers or in a sarong or you know, it's hilarious. It's something we all have to do so we can all then enjoy the benefits of living in a true democracy. So it's kind of a paradox you have to give up a little bit of freedom to live in

3 (20m 12s):
Freedom. Thanks, Lisa. Wish us luck today, huh? Good luck tonight. Thanks. Yeah, I hope there's High voter

2 (20m 29s):
turnout. I hope this High turnout. Do you think there will with these elections are last turn out was 36% brother and I don't mean to make fun of you, but that's pretty pissed way, don't you

3 (20m 40s):
think? Professor Lisa Hill the piss-weak turnout she was mocking was from the 2014 midterm election. That was the most recent midterm when I spoke to her in 2018 her mocking must have worked though. Because in 2018, we got the highest voter turnout in a midterm in a century. Here's hoping today brings the highest presidential voter turnout in a century to I'm Sean Thomas from this is today explained the team includes will read Amna al-saadi mu JT Halima Shaw and no MM hassenfeld who contributes music along with the mysterious brake master cylinder extra help this week from bird Pinkerton.

3 (21m 30s):
Cecilia laid checks are facts of theme Shapiro as our engineer gold to Arthur is our supervising producer and Liz Kelly Nelson is vaux's editorial director of podcasts today explained is part of the VOX media podcast Network.

4 (22m 8s):
This is Saint Dominic. I'm an assistant managing editor at the New York Times. Our Newsroom has been empty since March, but we've been busier than ever before the pandemic has changed how we work, but it hasn't changed what we do. This is why we became journalists to bring to like real verified information when the stakes couldn't be higher. We can't do this work without our subscribers. If you'd like to subscribe, please go to nytimes.com / subscribe and thanks. Hi, I'm Neil Patel co-founder and editor and chief of The Verge and host of decoder a new podcast from The Verge in the VOX media podcast network of a big ideas and other problems for over a decade.

4 (22m 51s):
I've been interviewing leaders from the worlds of Technology business and policy about how they run their organizations make decisions and consider policy changes that could fundamentally alter entire Industries like Senator Ed Markey on the future of connectivity in America. Broadband has become the equivalent. Of water or electricity for people AMD CEO. Dr. Lisa Sue on building the next generation of processors. The idea was technology is you have to make a set of choices three to five years in advance Google and alphabet CEO Sundar pichai on the current crisis and adapting to it cold. It is blurred the lines between consumer and Enterprise and the people are using products in all kinds of contexts and Neil Young on.

4 (23m 31s):
Well his feelings the MacBook Pro. It's a piece of crap. Are you kidding with decoder? I'll be adding these conversations with a diverse cast of CEOs policymakers and innovators some you know, and some you wouldn't expect we'll talk about how they're navigating and ever-changing Landscape what keeps them up at night and what it all means for our shared future. We're asking tough questions going to break some news and we're going to have some fun. So look for a decoder with nilay Patel in apple podcasts or your favorite podcast.