0 (1s):
Hey there, it's Noel, my friend and yours. Sam Sanders is the host of Oxs Intuit. And on a recent episode, Sam asked a question that I think about not infrequently this time of year. So it's Oscar season and we've been wondering why Blockbusters don't win Academy Awards. I saw Avatar SeaWorld along with a billion other people. And while Audience Enthusiasm doesn't make a great movie, it doesn't make a movie not great, right? Anyway, here's Sam with an honest attempt to answer the question.

2 (42s):
Today we're gonna look back and talk about the Oscar's complicated relationship with the Blockbuster. To start, let's go to snl.

3 (53s):
It's time for the big Hollywood quiz. Here's your host, Jack Delmar.

2 (58s):
There was this SNL skit from a few weeks ago. Bone Yang plays the host of this like daytime TV quiz show. And Bowen's character gets to this question in the sketch that perfectly captures a problem the Oscars have had to deal with for a while. Great,

4 (1m 14s):
These are all about awards sticking with the 2020s. This film written and directed by Sarah Polly has been nominated for Best Picture this year. No one, I'll give you a hint. It has an all female cast featuring Oscar winner Francis McDorman.

2 (1m 32s):
No one can answer the question. 80

4 (1m 34s):
For Brady. No. Anyone else? Can you

1 (1m 39s):
Give us a hint?

4 (1m 40s):
It's Women Talking. Be more specific. No, that's the title. Women Talking. It's a wonderful film. Do you all watch, watch tv?

2 (1m 51s):
And I mean it's funny, but also it's true. I mean, I only know that Women Talking exists because I live in Los Angeles and cover the entertainment industry for a living. The Oscars have gotten flack for this for some time now. Seems like every year they nominate a bunch of movies for Best Picture that very few people have actually seen. And I mean, sometimes blockbusters do get a best picture nomination, top Gun Maverick and Avatar this year, the first Black Panther a few years ago. But even when those blockbusters get a best picture nomination, they rarely win. I wanna talk about this, how it happened, why it happens, and whether this phenomenon is good or bad for the Oscars, for filmmakers, for us.

2 (2m 40s):
So I called up Joe Reid.

5 (2m 43s):
I am the co-host of the this head Oscar Bus podcast. I am a contributor to Vulture's movie awards coverage and I am a senior writer@primetimer.com.

2 (2m 54s):
All right, the Oscars are this weekend. And usually Joe, I'm quite bad at making Oscar predictions. Like I don't even fill out the little forms when I go to watch it with friends, right? I don't do it cuz I'm bad at it. But this year I can, I think based on historical data, make one prediction and put a lot of money on it. Here it is. Tell me what you think. All right. I think Top Gun Maverick will not win best picture this Sunday, in part because of how successful this film has been at the box office. Do you support this wager?

5 (3m 29s):
I support this wager. I think this wager will get you a return on it. You will, you'll get your money back and then some I, the rationale behind it makes me wanna sort of like pipe up and quibble a little bit just because I do think there's this sense of, and you've heard it echoed and from a lot of people, including upcoming Oscar host Jimmy Kimmel, this idea that the Oscars are somewhat sort of hostile to movies that are popular, that are sort of broadly popular. This

6 (3m 56s):
Is a night for positivity and our plan is to shine a light on a group of outstanding and inspiring films. Each and every one of which got crushed by Black Panther this weekend.

5 (4m 7s):
I think there's, there is some, as with a lot of these sort of notions that catch on, there's some truth to that. And I think it, it doesn't go the full way. Okay. I think there's a couple, there's a couple angles to that. One of which is the notion like the, the kinds of movies that are blockbusters now is different than what blockbusters were even in like the eighties and nineties in terms of

2 (4m 33s):
Like, I grew up with like Forrest Gump, right? Gladiator, these films that were blockbusters and also critical darlings. Yeah. And you know what a blockbuster is now? It's a Marvel movie.

5 (4m 42s):
That's the thing. Blockbuster now is almost two definitions. A blockbuster is how much money a movie is made, but also a blockbuster is like a genre of movie that is exactly blockbuster, right? Big special effects, heavy action guns, you know, weaponry, superheroes. That's a, that's a a genre type. And that's the thing that has changed because back in the, the stat that I bring up a lot and the stat that I think a lot of Oscar sort of nerds bring up a lot and I think with Good reason is 1979 best picture winner is Kramer versus Kramer. It is a movie about a couple getting divorced and a guy sort of Dustin Hoffman coping with the idea of being a single father.

7 (5m 22s):
You know, had a lot of time think about what does it make somebody a good parent? You know, it has to do with constancy, it has to do with with with patience. It has to do with listening to 'em, has to do with pretending to listen to 'em when you can't even listen anymore.

8 (5m 33s):
And the winner is Kramer vre.

5 (5m 37s):
It was the Oscar winner for Best Picture. It was also the number one movie at the box office in America that year.

2 (5m 42s):
I had no idea that Kramer versus Kramer was the number one movie Exactly. Came out

5 (5m 46s):
Exactly. Exactly. 106 million in 1979. Money.

2 (5m 50s):
That's a lot of money.

5 (5m 52s):
1988, Justin Hoffman, once again, apparently America couldn't get enough of Dustin Hoffman number one movie movie in America's Rain Man, which is a movie about an autistic man and his brother sort of taking a CrossCountry trip.

9 (6m 3s):
82 82, 82 82

10 (6m 6s):
What

9 (6m 9s):
Tooth Pitch

11 (6m 10s):
And the winner is Rainman Mark Johnson producer.

5 (6m 15s):
And that makes 172 million in 1980 and

2 (6m 19s):
Tbs. And because of TBS in my childhood, I watched that film 27 times. Absolutely remember how it was always on tbs.

5 (6m 25s):
Always, yes. A big, big television movie. Speaking of Tom Cruise, Tom Cruise, our, our, our maverick himself. And while that was all happening, of course, like Star Wars was redefining the blockbuster and all these other like action blockbusters are also happening, but the American movie public would see both, right? They would see the domestic drama enough to make it over a hundred million. They would see the action drama. And then, so the Oscars, I think the of the two, it's the American movie going public whose taste has changed rather than the Oscars was.

2 (6m 54s):
Yes, okay. Will

5 (6m 55s):
Still award a domestic drama, will still award a movie about a man taking a cross-country trip with his autistic brother. The

2 (7m 1s):
The, but they're not blockbusters anymore, right?

5 (7m 3s):
The public isn't going to see them in those kind of numbers.

2 (7m 6s):
So I wanna get into the reasons why for that. Yeah. But I wanna first set up this blockbuster conundrum of the Oscars for folks who probably don't think about it, which is most people. Yeah. Turns out the Oscars for, gosh, at least a decade, maybe two decades now, have increasingly been nominating movies for best picture that have really, really, really, really low box office takes. Yes. And then the biggest blockbusters that make the most money are kind of likely to get snubbed. And it's such a pronounced thing that according to your data since 1977, only five movies that led the box office the year of their release also won best picture at the Oscars.

2 (7m 54s):
Right. That's wild. What are those movies first

5 (7m 56s):
It's, well, Kramer versus Kramer and Rainman, which I mentioned Forrest Gump, which you mentioned in 1994, made 329 million domestically. Woo. Titanic of course, which like set records and, and swept the Oscars in 1997 or 4, 19 97. And Lord of the Rings return to the King, which was of course the last of the three Lord of the Rings trilogy that Peter Jackson made in 2003 made 300,

2 (8m 21s):
The one was 18 endings. Right, exactly. Had like 18 endings. God, that movie Anyhoo, go ahead.

5 (8m 26s):
Sorry. Yes. 10 million for every ending of that movie. So it really added up by the end there. And so yes, so since then you've had some blockbuster, like again big action blockbusters that made a ton of money. Like, like the first avatar in 2009, right? Mad Max Fury wrote Black Panther, the first Black Panther, all best Picture nominees, but they don't win, they lose out to smaller movies and it's, you see like it's a polarization thing almost, right? Where like the academy as an an organization feels this pressure, they don't wanna be obsolete, they don't wanna be seen as obsolete and out of touch. I think they still want to be seen as, I don't think they mind when they're called snobby. I think there is something about the Oscars to be snobs.

5 (9m 8s):
I want them to be snobs. I think that's why we have the Oscars. Otherwise we just have a very, very long People's Choice Awards and

2 (9m 14s):
Like their taste should be better than my taste.

5 (9m 16s):
Right? It should be. And and I think part of the reason why we, we celebrate when our faves win the Oscar is they've grabbed a little bit of the attention and the respect from this like often fussy old, you know, organization and you've, you've made them pay attention to you in a little bit. So that's the satisfaction of the Oscars. But I also think, especially when they talk about like TV ratings they want, they don't wanna get too far away from the kinds of the, at least having some movies on the best picture lineup that will draw people in. The common sort of wisdom has been for the longest time, I think since those Titanic Oscars that the highest rated Oscar ceremonies are the ones where the, the box office totals of the best picture nominees are higher.

5 (10m 4s):
And that is a thing that like was true I think for a time and isn't necessarily true maybe anymore. Or at least not as true as it used to be. I think this year will be a very interesting case.

2 (10m 15s):
Well this year is interesting. Yeah. Because it's like, you know, we talk about how blockbusters don't get enough love from the Oscars in the last several years, but turns out this year they nominate Top Gun Maverick, which made more money than God. Yeah. It seems as if they kinda get it or, or at least they're trying to speak to the problem.

5 (10m 37s):
Yeah, I think, I think the thing is when there is a movie that makes that kind of money, that also gets sort of a minimum level critical support, I think they are very resistant. And I think with probably good reason to nominating just any old movie, just because it's number one at the box office, they've not, they don't nominate a Transformers, they don't nominate most of the Marvel movies because I think there is a significant sort of snobbery against them. I think the Black Panther movies have been particularly sort of artistically appreciated in a way that and culturally appreciated and sort of have that extra X factor to them that the Oscars have responded to them.

5 (11m 18s):
But in general, like there was that big push last year to get Spider-Man No Way Home nominated. And I kind of knew I was like that they're not gonna do that. Like they, that's not, that's sort of out of their, their genre a little bit. And I, I don't know if I would want them to, I liked that movie a lot, but like I don't know if I would want them to. And so what you did instead of movie like Dune, which was the only best picture nominee last year to make significant amounts of money, but it also had, there was like Denny Venu is a very artistic filmmaker and he's a very sort of like critically embraced filmmaker. So you get that in as your blockbuster representative a little bit this year with Top Gun though I think it's interesting because we have evidence of how Top Gun did the first time around at the Oscars, both financially and it won Best song for Take My Breath Away, but it wasn't nominated for Best Picture that year.

5 (12m 12s):
And it's interesting, so now this year it is, but the ratings for the Oscars for the 86 ceremony are gonna end up being like double what the ratings end up being for this year's Oscars. So it's that.

2 (12m 23s):
But like, but but there's like a whole nother wrench in that whole thing because like TV ratings across the board down as everyone goes to streaming, so Right. It's really even hard to have that conversation.

5 (12m 32s):
Right. But I think sometimes you'll get people who wanna blame the movies for the reason that the ratings are down rather than the thing that you just said, which is that like, this has been a trend that's been going on for decades that like it's just Yeah. And there doesn't seem to be anything you can do to reverse it. Last year there were, I think the Oscars got a little sweaty last year, but some of those like fan favorite moments and best blockbuster award and whatever and like that, that ended up again 16 million people watch the Oscars, which is more people than watch most things these days. But it's still again, like it's half the amount of what, of what those ratings were like in the eighties.

2 (13m 34s):
I want to ask for you, what was the year of best picture nominations that were most out of touch with like actual box office draws and films people actually watched, oh gosh, which year had the nominations that were like the most niche wtf? What is this movie situation?

5 (13m 56s):
I mean I, and I say this as somebody who like gravitates to the niche movies anyways, so those tend to be the years where I'm just like, yeah, all right. The, I think back to 96 where like that was the story. The story in 96, which was the year that the English patient won Best Picture, which actually got a lot of like pop culture. There was that Seinfeld episode about like how much Elaine hated the English patient. How

12 (14m 17s):
Could you not love that movie?

1 (14m 19s):
How about

2 (14m 20s):
It sucked.

5 (14m 21s):
There's a little bit of like resentment to the fact that 96, the nominees were Jerry McGuire was the Hollywood movie and then it was four sort of indie movies. It was Secrets and Lies. The Mike Lee movie, which is Great Shine. What

2 (14m 33s):
Is Shai Shine

5 (14m 34s):
Was the movie that Jeffrey Rush won the best actor for. We played the pianist who had mental health issues.

13 (14m 40s):
Oh the Planets must forget the planets. Of course, of course. Mercury, Neptune and so forth. The music of the Spheres, the music, music with the Food of Love.

14 (14m 46s):
Oh very gastro astronomical isn't oh The Food of Love. It is Gillian. Oh

15 (14m 51s):
He like, like when he gets to know you better,

5 (14m 54s):
Nobody remembers this movie. Most

2 (14m 56s):
Good for him. Yeah,

5 (14m 57s):
Good for him. Right. He won Best Actor, he beat Tom Cruiser. Jerry McGuire probably shouldn't have, show

16 (15m 1s):
Me the money. I need to feel you Jerry Show me The Money

5 (15m 5s):
Fargo though, which was like this tiny little indie movie but has become this like institution. And then the English patient, that was the big story that year was Hollywood kind of crapped out and the Indies came up and sort of took over and you've seen, and then the very next year was Titanic. So you almost see this pushback from the Oscars somewhat more recently, the 2008 Oscars, which was the year that Slumdog Millionaire won, was the year where the reader was nominated and Frost Nixon and Curious case of Benjamin Button and what was the fifth Nominator milk? The Harvey Milk biopic.

2 (15m 39s):
And so lemme tell you who watched Frost Nixon Who? Nobody, yeah.

17 (15m 45s):
When the president does it, that means it's not illegal.

5 (15m 49s):
That was the year that the Dark Knight and Wally were sort of in the conversation were shut out and they were shut out. And so the Oscars responded to that by expanding the best picture category. And the next year you did get movies like obviously Avatar was that next year and Up and in Glorious Bastards and District Nine, the sort

2 (16m 8s):
Of Alien,

5 (16m 8s):
That movie Movie.

2 (16m 9s):
I loved that movie.

5 (16m 10s):
And that was the first time that like a Pixar movie got a best picture nomination for up. But it's interesting because, so that was 10 nominees that year and most of them, like about half of them right, were a hundred million or more. And then the next year was kind of a similar split where you had Toy Story three and Inception and True Grit and like movies that you wouldn't necessarily even think of like blockbusters. But like Black Swan made 106 million that year. King's Speech made 135. But reportedly Winter's Bone was one of the other nominees and reportedly

2 (16m 41s):
Winter's Bone, which

5 (16m 43s):
Made 6.5 million, it was so low.

2 (16m 46s):
Who was in that

5 (16m 46s):
Movie? Jennifer Lawrence that Jennifer Lawrence, that was the big Jennifer that was Breakthrough Movie. Goodness.

15 (16m 51s):
Now get in there, get them guts out. I don't want to Sunny, there's a bunch of stuff that you're gonna have to get over being scared of

5 (16m 60s):
Reportedly people at the Academy or ABC or one or the other were so annoyed that this super low rated movie that nobody had heard of was the best picture nominee that the very next year they were like, it's not gonna be 10 nominees in Best Picture, it's gonna be eight or nine or whoever they, they like made that very convoluted rule where it was like anywhere from five to 10. That's funny. And reportedly they were mad that like Ben Affleck, the town didn't get nominated instead of Winter's Bone because they

2 (17m 26s):
Don't ever, they bad for Ben Affleck. He the best Argo,

5 (17m 31s):
He's swimming in Duncan money, he's fine, he's doing well.

2 (17m 35s):
Probably swimming in Dunking Ice Coffee as well. I

5 (17m 37s):
Wouldn't put it past that guy as we speak. Yeah, exactly.

2 (17m 40s):
I wanna ask you, yeah, so when I think of this phenomenon of the Oscar's not really being nice to blockbusters when it comes to Best picture. Yeah. When would you say that era began? Is there a start point? Is there an origin story of this?

5 (17m 58s):
I don't know if there's any one moment because you look back and like the, the traditional sort of wisdom is that the blockbuster era began with Jaws and Star Wars, which was 75 and 77. Those movies were both nominated for Best Picture. Spielberg was snubbed for best director for Jaws and he, he's on camera as being incredibly upset about it.

18 (18m 18s):
I didn't get it, I didn't get it. I wasn't nominated, I got beaten up by

5 (18m 25s):
Fellini. I think it's as Blockbusters became more and more sort of saturating the marketplace, you the fact that like a few of them would bubble up, started to seem less and less sufficient for sort of mirroring what the American public's taste seemed to be. Right? Where all of a sudden it's like, oh, what kind or Black Panther in 2018 gets an Oscar nomination as like the one big blockbuster movie? And you're like, yeah, but like there are 25 blockbuster movies out there. So people kind of point to it as the Oscar's sort of like holding their nose and picking like one blockbuster a year.

19 (19m 2s):
Here are the nominees for Best Picture Black Panther and the Oscar goes to Green Book.

2 (19m 14s):
Listen, if I ever see the team behind Green Book in person I r l and the Flesh, it's onsite. Do you, do

5 (19m 21s):
You remember, do you remember Sam, that red carpet interview? I think after the fact, it was after that ceremony where Spike Lee was on the red carpet and somebody, it was a British interviewer, asked him what he thought of Green Book. Is

2 (19m 32s):
There something

20 (19m 32s):
About Green Book that offends you? This is what I'm

2 (19m 34s):
Trying to get to offend. Are you British? Yeah. Are you British? I am. Let me give you a British answer. What? My cup of tea spike Spike Lee is America's auntie hundred. I digress. Go ahead. What? What were we on? We were talking about oh blockbuster eras that are back to your thoughts. Sorry about that. Go ahead.

5 (19m 58s):
Yeah, as like the nineties rolled into the two thousands and CGI heavy movies sort of started to dominate the top 10, that's when you sort of started to see that like the public's taste and the Oscar's taste just like really, really started to part ways in a way that's

2 (20m 14s):
Yeah.

5 (20m 15s):
Isn't great. Like I wish they were more aligned too, but I kind of want the public to maybe like, you know, go see the Fable Mask guys. Like it's not gonna hurt you. I dunno,

2 (20m 23s):
But how much of this is also all about streaming? Yeah. You know, what we've also seen happen in the last several years is genres that used to be reliable hits in movie theaters. Yeah. Are now strictly for streaming. I'm talking about romcoms, like my big fat Greek wedding made like 200 million plus. Yeah. That movie today would go straight to Netflix. Yes. How much of it is we've seen as streaming has risen a lot of movies for adults don't ever even get to theaters anymore.

5 (20m 59s):
Well that is part of it. And I, the other part of it is that television, sort of the era of prestige television, whatever, however many scare quotes you wanna put around that I'm, you know, comfortable with. But this idea that like television has raised the bar in quality in terms of not only the people behind the camera making it, but also like the stars. There is no real division anymore between movie stars and TV stars. Right. They sort of free

2 (21m 23s):
Flow. Yeah. Merril is doing tv. Merril seems doing tv. Merrill

5 (21m 27s):
Nicole

2 (21m 27s):
TV is movies now.

5 (21m 28s):
Nicole Kidman apparently only signs on for television shows anymore. She's just

2 (21m 32s):
Like, she's and every show the wig has to be bigger. That's true. That's true.

5 (21m 37s):
But I think so because of that then that, that itch that people used to get scratched by going to, you know, a movie for, you know, a movie for adults in a way that doesn't sound porny. Right. You know? Yeah.

2 (21m 52s):
Yeah.

5 (21m 53s):
And they, they get that itch scratch now by watching the Last of Us, or I mean Mad Men was, you know, a decade ago. But yeah, like that kind of thing. And yeah, they've almost sort of been trained out of seeing an adult drama at the movie theater. The thing they can't see at home, at least first run is the Marvel movies. Right. And the, the Top Gun Maverick. And so that's why those are the movies that, that draw the big crowds. Yeah.

2 (22m 23s):
All right, one more quick break more with Joe Reid in just a bit. If I were to be mad at somebody for this conundrum, the blockbuster Oscar conundrum, right? Should I be mad at Netflix and streaming? Should I be mad at the viewing public? Or should I be mad at Oscar voters?

5 (22m 46s):
I'll go back and I'll pick out a certain academy president and we'll, we'll have you direct your anger to them. Not Cheryl Bo Isaac. Because she

2 (22m 53s):
She tried, she tried. She tried. Hard job. She tried

5 (22m 56s):
That woman said Dick poop on a, on a nomination warning one day and like rolled with that punch and forever she Wait. Really?

2 (23m 3s):
Yes. Oh my God. What?

5 (23m 5s):
So

2 (23m 6s):
YouTube video of this, there

5 (23m 7s):
Were 100% is for

21 (23m 8s):
Achievement in cinematography. The nominees are Emmanuel Leki for Birdman or the unexpected virtue of ignorance. Robert Yeoman for the Grand Budapest Hotel, Luka y and re, Shar Lenchos for Ida Dick Poop, Dick Pope for Mr. Turner.

5 (23m 37s):
And she was standing right next to Chris Pine in front of God and everybody, and she said it and she like flinched for half a second and then she moved the heck on and she was an icon for that one. So

2 (23m 47s):
Also if there's anyone to be standing next to in a moment of crisis like that, it's Chris Pine. Oh,

5 (23m 51s):
And Chris. Chris Pine. No. Sold the hell out of that. Like his face didn't, didn't move. He was a pro. Yeah.

2 (23m 58s):
That man can be a statue when he needs to be as in the entire press run of, don't worry darling. Exactly. I digress. Exactly. I digress. Yep. All right, so then if we don't really get to blame anybody for this conundrum, should I even see it as a problem? Is it bad that the Oscars have a blockbuster problem? Does it matter?

5 (24m 21s):
I tend to not think so because I don't have to care about TV ratings. Like that's not my job. You know what I mean? I am here to, I am somebody who sort of became a fan of the Oscars. The Oscars were, you know, very big with me growing up, partly because they introduced me to movies that I didn't really always hear about before. Right. So I've always appreciated that aspect of the Oscars that they did kind of point me past the bigger blockbuster movies. I think that's one of the things that they're very helpful for. I think the part where it becomes a problem is when you get the idea that this is keeping people from watching the Oscars and sort of making the Oscars Oscars obsolete.

5 (25m 1s):
And I think the solution to this, and this is, I don't know if this is a thing that's going to happen or perhaps not happen anytime soon, is let the Oscars let that contract with ABC expire, let the Oscars air on Netflix or some streaming platform where they don't have to worry about ratings or time or commercial breaks or whatever, or commercial breaks. Everybody kind of loved that screen Actors Guild Awards the other night because they were on YouTube. They didn't have to cut anybody's speeches short, they didn't have to air any commercials. They kind of, you know, were on their own vibe and did their own thing and they were really fun. And I'm hoping that there is a universe where everybody just sort of accepts the fact that like, you know, the Oscars or the Oscars and people who love them are gonna keep watching them.

5 (25m 48s):
And you don't necessarily have to chase people who liked the flash running through the speed force or whatever with, with those special little, you know, handholding kind of moments, I think.

2 (25m 59s):
Yeah. Well I also think that like the moral of the story of media right now is just like monoculture is gone. Yes. Go niche. Yeah. And it's gonna be impossible to make a show, an award situation. Anything that appeals to fans of Marvel films and fans of Art House and like it, you can't do it. So it's like, just pick a lane, you know? Pick a lane and I'll say this and I think it's, yeah,

5 (26m 24s):
Sorry. Well I was gonna say no go look. The kind of movie that comes close to bring it back around is everything everywhere all at Once. Which

2 (26m 30s):
Kelly got it right with this. Yeah. They

5 (26m 32s):
Have that kind of, there's that Comic Booky appeal to it. It's not based on a comic book, but it has that kind of appeal to it.

2 (26m 37s):
It feels very comic book. Yeah.

5 (26m 38s):
Multiverses. But it also has that, you know, artistic flair to it, it and that emotional core to it with that family story. And I think sometimes that is what the Oscars will celebrate is when, and then it also made a ton of money is the other thing. Everything everywhere at once was a big hit. And so the Oscars then will celebrate I think when art and Commerce kind of come together successfully in a movie like that. And I'm fine with that. I'm fine with that being like, you can be a blockbuster, but you also have to have an artistic streak in you or else the Oscars aren't gonna go for it. Yeah. And I'm, I'm happy with that. Yeah.

2 (27m 14s):
I feel like we'd be remiss in this conversation to not talk about the time the Oscars tried to solve their blockbuster problem. They wanted to try an award for outstanding achievement in popular film. Yeah. What the heck was that all about? And did it work?

5 (27m 29s):
I think it was about that kind of desperation to be able to put Marvel fans into the, you know, into the audience of the Oscars. Because that's the biggest slice of the movie going audience at this point. And I think they really wanted that. And I think it just came across as pandering. Anybody who was a fan of the Oscars didn't like this idea that now they were going to hand a an Academy award the same as all the other ones to something that was just called a popular movie. How do, how are we defining popular? Is popular a genre? Is there like a minimum level of box office? Like what did that even mean? And it just felt very obviously pandering. Yeah.

5 (28m 9s):
So there was pushback against it and I think rightly so.

2 (28m 12s):
In your opinion, what has been the greatest blockbuster, best picture snub of all time?

5 (28m 19s):
Oh

2 (28m 19s):
Man. And this can be a snub for not being nominated or also a snub for being up for best picture and then not getting that.

5 (28m 26s):
I really liked Spotlight, but it beat Mad Max Fury Road. Which

2 (28m 31s):
One was Spotlight?

5 (28m 33s):
Spotlight was the one about the reporters at the Boston Globe who uncovered the church

2 (28m 37s):
Section. Tell you as a former reporter, we don't need no more damn movies about reporters. We get how it works. Yeah. Call a bunch of people and then you write the story, you call a bunch of people and then you write the story. Off the record. Off the record, yeah. Madden Max Free Road was one of the best action films of all time.

5 (28m 55s):
That's the thing. That's the thing. That was, and that was the movie of that year. When you look at like, what was, you know, what's the movie you remember when you look back at 2015, who's Madden Max Free Road? Like that was, I

2 (29m 5s):
Watched Free Road once a year just to like get back in that space. It's

5 (29m 8s):
So beautiful. Just fire yourself up for the next 11 months. Yeah, baby. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Totally.

2 (29m 12s):
Alright, so that one. Okay. My colleague Travis is saying, speaking of blockbusters being Snubbed or Robbed, ET was Robbed. Yes.

5 (29m 21s):
Got Beat by Gandhi. That's a big one. That's, well that was the thing with Spielberg two for a while, is he kept getting these best picture nominations for Raiders of the Lost Ark and Jaws and et and he kept getting beat for Best Picture by Right.

2 (29m 32s):
Oh my God. Yeah. By by these other movies. Can I make a, can I make a bowl statement right here?

5 (29m 36s):
Make it

2 (29m 37s):
Steven Spielberg is to the Oscars. What Beyonce is to the Grammys.

5 (29m 41s):
I've had this conversation with other people. Oh,

2 (29m 43s):
I have, I wanna have it with them too, huh?

5 (29m 45s):
Shout out. Shout out to my friend Katie Rich at Vanity Fair. Because we have this conversation that, like Steven Spielberg is weirdly underrated at the Oscars for a guy who has two best director awards. He's, he's strangely, he's snubbed way more often than he's awarded and And he's definitely delivered enough. Well, yeah, fantastic movies that he should be more honored than he is.

2 (30m 5s):
This is a lovely way to end a conversation.

5 (30m 7s):
All conversations speaking to Beyonce. Yes,

2 (30m 9s):
Joe, thank you for this chat. All right. Please come back again soon and talk movies with me. This was delightful.

5 (30m 15s):
Yes, absolutely. Thank you Sam.

2 (30m 17s):
Thanks again to Joe Reid. You can read Joe's Cheat Cheat on how to gossip it this year's Oscars over at Vulture. While you're there, also check out the winners of Vulture's First ever stunt awards. There's no Oscar for best stunts, so Vulture had to do it.