0 (1s):
On Friday, the Supreme court of the United States made history. They rewrote history. The country took a big 50 years step back and then like dominoes trigger bands on abortions, went into effect.

2 (19s):
The attorney general of Missouri has now just tweeted that it's the first state to let its trigger laws spring into action.

3 (27s):
We are prepared to immediately ban abortion in Arkansas with the overturn of Roe vs. Wade

4 (33s):
Here in Kentucky abortions are now illegal because of what's known as a trigger law

0 (38s):
More than a half dozen trigger bands are now law in the United States. On today's explained, we're going to get into where you can and cannot get an abortion in America. And whether this country is really going to prosecute all the people who want to terminate their pregnancies

Google (60s):
For over 20 years, Google has been helping protect Americans from cybersecurity threats, from turning two-step verification on by default for 150 million people, which adds an additional layer of account security with a single tap to protecting new sites and human rights organizations with project shield. Google is building advanced technologies that raise the bar for the entire industry and help make the whole internet safer for everyone. Learn more@safety.google,

BalanceUS (1m 29s):
The Coca-Cola company, Keurig Dr. Pepper and PepsiCo are bringing consumers more choices with less sugar than ever before. In fact, nearly 60% of beverages sold contain zero sugar. Visit balance us.org to learn more

0 (1m 53s):
Today explained Shawn Robinson. I'm here with Amanda Roberto, professor of gender and politics at San Francisco state university. Who's going to tell us how abortion in America looks now that the Supreme court has overturned Roe V. Wade. It

8 (2m 7s):
Looks chaotic

9 (2m 9s):
The highest court in the land reverse course on 50 years of federal constitutional rights to have an abortion sending the issue to the state,

8 (2m 17s):
There is going to be uncertainty over what the legal status of abortion is, how long it'll stay legal in any given state. The ones that do have trigger bands and trigger band, like laws are also going to be a little bit chaotic and influx because some of those laws won't go into effect right away. Some five days later, some 30 days. So it is a mess. Basically what it looks like is a slippery slope towards abortion being banned in about half of our states,

0 (3m 3s):
For people who are unfamiliar with the term, what exactly is a trigger law and how exactly do they work? Because it sounds like it kind of varies.

8 (3m 13s):
There's a few different ways in which to categorize abortion bands in the absence of row. And they tend to get lumped together with the term trigger law. And there's a few different camps here. The actual trigger laws are the ones that explicitly ban abortion. If Roe were to be overturned, which it was 13 states have those,

10 (3m 36s):
I am humbled to be a part of this. And the first attorney general in the country to effectively end abortion.

8 (3m 41s):
Missouri was the first one to go ahead and enact their trigger law.

0 (3m 46s):
What are the other 12

8 (3m 48s):
Arkansas, Idaho Tuckey, Deanna, Mississippi, Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah. And I think Wyoming is actually Wyoming is the most recent trigger ban. A lot of them have a kind of recommendation that the attorney general has to review that court case. And then you make a recommendation within 30 days.

0 (4m 15s):
And a number of these states have already had their trigger bands go into effect, including Utah

11 (4m 21s):
Pause, trigger law, banning abortions took effect this

0 (4m 24s):
Evening. Oklahoma

12 (4m 26s):
Is now in Oklahoma, the safest place for a child to be

0 (4m 31s):
Kentucky, Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana, South Dakota.

13 (4m 36s):
Well, what happened with the Supreme court decision this week is that abortions in the state of South Dakota immediately became illegal unless it was to save the life of a mother

0 (4m 44s):
That's trigger Ben camp. What are the other camps?

8 (4m 49s):
There are seven states that have pre-Roe laws. That can be at any point before Roe V. Wade was a thing. And so there's seven states that have these laws that would criminalize abortion. That just kind of never got taken off the books. A good example of that is Michigan. They have a law from about 1931 that criminalizes

0 (5m 10s):
31,

8 (5m 12s):
Which it feels like right now. Right? But it criminalizes abortion, but it was unenforceable because of Roe V. Wade.

0 (5m 20s):
So these are old laws that were negated by Roe V. Wade, but are now essentially active again because Roe V Wade is gone.

8 (5m 29s):
It could be enacted. And again, that's going to come from the attorney general in that state, which in Michigan she's actually indicated no

14 (5m 37s):
In 1931, law is unenforceable as of this moment. So everything remains the same as it was yesterday at this time, but just for now.

0 (5m 48s):
And it looks like there's some overlap here in camp ancient laws. In addition to Michigan, there's Alabama, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Wisconsin, but then also Mississippi, Texas, West Virginia and Arizona what's camp three.

8 (6m 6s):
The states that actually try to pass abortion bans after Roe was decided, but they've been blocked by courts because they were unconstitutional

0 (6m 16s):
Camp unenforceable. What are, what are some of the states in this camp,

8 (6m 20s):
Georgia now see again, they overlap. So Iowa, Kentucky is Yana, Mississippi, Missouri. You got North Dakota, Ohio, South Carolina, and the see Texas, Utah.

0 (6m 34s):
Do we know between these three camps, trigger, ban ancient laws and unenforceable? What happens first? Is there like an order of operations here?

8 (6m 46s):
I guess it kind of depends on, like I said, the state attorney general, what kind of recommendation they're going to go forward with offering the governors of these states. It could be that some of them move on they're complete and total bans, some might opt for maybe one of the ones that are just a first trimester ban. Like, and I say just, but it's still almost like not having abortion be accessible at all in that state. So a six week ban or 12 weeks, you know, a little bit later, I think it is discretionary in a lot of ways. And, and I also think that it almost matters what has happened to the band.

8 (7m 28s):
So if it's easier to lift a federal courts, injunction like Ohio is doing right now is it's filing a motion to lift a stay on their six week ban.

15 (7m 43s):
We can now tell you that Ohio's heartbeat. Bill is now officially the law of the land and the state of Ohio,

8 (7m 49s):
Or is it just easier to enact a pre-roll ban or something like that?

0 (7m 54s):
I know there's a lot of stuff to figure out. A lot of attorneys general need to make decisions, but how extreme are these laws? Are people going to be jailed in states like Missouri and Oklahoma and Texas? Are they going to be able to get an abortion? If they're raped, are they going to be able to get an abortion if their lives are at risk?

8 (8m 16s):
So a lot of the states that do have bands have exceptions for rape incest or kind of life endangering physical conditions, that specifically is about physical conditions. It doesn't include emotional or psychological conditions that might threaten the pregnant person. So there, there are some exceptions, but yet this is going to be a huge hindrance to access. I mean, folks will have to travel out of states if they can afford it. Most folks have trouble affording it, right? It's already expensive. So yeah, this is going to be very impactful for millions of people across the nation.

8 (9m 1s):
I should note that there have been states that have actually prosecuted pregnant folks who have had stillbirths because they suspect something different self-managed abortion or some kind of malfeasance, or they've been prosecuted for abuse of a corpse. Those that's happening in Indiana and Alabama,

16 (9m 27s):
Marsha Jones was shot in a fight near Birmingham, Alabama. She was five months pregnant at the time. Jones's story became national last week when a grand jury indicted her for the loss of her own fetus, but did not indict the woman who shot her.

0 (9m 41s):
Are there states that do not have exceptions for the health of the mother or for rape or incest?

8 (9m 51s):
Almost every single one does. But the, the thing that actually is pretty restrictive is to what degree these exceptions are actually kind of offered, right? So like in some cases, in some states, the exception, the rape exception has to come along with actually reporting that rape to law enforcement, a lot of restriction within that exception, it's going to be dangerous, right? You have some activists who are suggesting things like if you self-manage your abortion, which is safe, right. But if you do, self-manage it via ordering pills online or telemedicine or something like that.

8 (10m 35s):
If you have to present to a hospital afterwards for some kind of checkup or to not tell them that you self-managed, but just that you had a miscarriage and I don't know if that's the best advice, but that, that advice is being spread around is indicative of the secrecy that comes with criminality.

0 (11m 2s):
So before Friday abortion in the United States was sort of a bit of a jumbled mess. And after Friday abortion in the United States will continue to be just an even more totally jumbled mess.

8 (11m 19s):
Even as fast as abortion laws tend to change with the RO in place. Now states are able to kind of go at it right, and kind of do whatever they need to. And it's not going to be this legislative process so much for the states that have trigger bands. It's going to be up to their attorneys general and their governors. And so you're looking at like one or two people who are going to be just enacting these laws and not like following a bill through the legislative process, right. Things are going to happen even more quickly. And there's a lot of kind of fallout that might happen thereafter.

0 (11m 59s):
That was professor Amanda, Roberto, San Francisco state university, more on the fallout. And a minute on today, explained

Shopify (12m 11s):
Support for the program.Today comes from Shopify. If you're someone who sells things online, you'll need a commerce platform that makes easy to sell the things. And that is why Shopify is the go-to choice for millions of different businesses. According to Shopify, Shopify is all in one commerce platform includes everything you need to start, run and grow your business. Whether you're selling organic dog treats formal clothing for collectible dolls or hair pieces, or an ironing board cover. I recently bought an ironing board cover for the first time in my life. And I was thinking like, oh, maybe I can find an interesting one. And so I started looking for like fun ironing board covers. And I found one, I mean, arguably fun, but more fun than the one I had before go to shopify.com/explained all lower case for a free 14 day trial and get full access to Shopify its entire suite of features grow your business. Now with Shopify, go to shopify.com/explain. Now that's shopify.com/explained Support for the show.

MasterClass (13m 31s):
Today comes from masterclass. And the last time I came to you and told you that support for the show came from masterclass. They said like, tell people what you want a masterclass on. And I mentioned like, like whistling definitely loud, but without using your fingers like that, that like classic New York taxi whistle to people still take taxes in New York. I think people still take, I like to try and take a taxi in New York city, get to give the yellow cab business. Another one I mentioned was like a tennis drop shot. That's a really hard shot to hit in tennis. And I feel like I can use a masterclass on that. Maybe that one exists. I'm not sure. I think Serena Williams might have masterclass. They want me to tell you a new one today. So I'm going to go with, I don't know how to Photoshop very well. Like Adobe Photoshop, the, the Photoshop suite is that what they call it, the Adobe suite. Anyway, I just use like max preview feature and it's limited tools and that's kind of an embarrassing thing to admit anyway, get unlimited access to every masterclass. And as a today explained listener, you get 15% off an annual membership go to masterclass.com/explained. Now that is masterclass.com/explained for 15% off master class,

17 (14m 42s):
No justice in this town. <inaudible>

0 (14m 53s):
They explained we're back. We wanted to hear from someone who could help make these trigger bands feel real.

18 (15m 0s):
My name is Jane Armstrong. I'm a licensed clinical social worker certified in perinatal mental health in the state of Texas.

0 (15m 9s):
Jane also has a private practice where she counsels parents who have had to end pregnancies due to medical issues. She was motivated to offer her expertise after having to terminate her own pregnancy. She shared her story with us.

18 (15m 23s):
This was my first pregnancy, my husband and I were very excited to find out I was pregnant in October, 2020. Everything went very smoothly through the first trimester we had good scans. I felt like shit sometimes with morning sickness and all that, but I took that as a good sign that things were chugging along then in January of 2021, my doctor ran a blood test that came up with a result. She was a little concerned about she called and said she wanted to refer me to a maternal fetal medicine specialist or a high risk pregnancy doctor for an early anatomy scan.

18 (16m 11s):
They found that our son Frankie had a very severe form of spina bifida, where his spinal cord had pretreated all the way through his spinal column and the skin on his back. And that had caused damage throughout the cord and his neural development. So there were issues in his brain and severely clubbed feet. It was a lot to take in and the doctor referred us to fetal surgeons in Houston who could potentially, if we qualified perform surgery to repair the lesion on his spine while he was still growing in my womb, I clung to that for a little bit thinking maybe that's it.

18 (17m 2s):
That's the thing that will get us through this. We were able to consult with surgeons over the phone and realized pretty quickly into that phone call that this was not the quote six. We thought it would be. Our son would not have any damage reversed. It would just prevent further damage. So what had already been done to his spine, his brain, his feet, those would still be there when he was born. The surgery itself is an elective procedures. So there were concerns about how much would insurance cover, what will we do with the medically fragile newborn?

18 (17m 48s):
If we're already struggling to pay medical bills from fetal surgery already, we were incredibly overwhelmed with what our next steps would be with a baby. We had become very attached to and had planned for and loved dearly and very much wanted to bring home. We spent some time, just my husband and I talking through what we thought would be the, I was about to say the best, but it's really the least worst option for our family. We also knew that we were doing so under a ticking clock.

18 (18m 30s):
This was pre SB eight. At the time, there was a 20 week abortion ban that I later learned could extend to 21 weeks and six days for certain fetal anomalies or health issues of the pregnant person. All I knew then was 20 weeks that we're already at 18 and a half. What are we going to do? And eventually we realized we were really deciding between giving our son life and giving him peace. And we chose peace. They were able to get me connected with a planned parenthood, pretty close to home, and they were able to get us in for our first of three appointments pretty quickly and took such wonderful care of us, despite lots and lots of unnecessary barriers and legal obstacles designed to make me feel like I was doing something wrong or like, I didn't understand the weight of the decision that I had made the people who make these laws or did at the time.

18 (19m 45s):
And this new decision will never know me, will never know. My son will never care for either of us, but that was absolutely the right decision for our son and our family, as sad as it is. And as heartbreaking as it continues to be, I miss him every day. And I'm very grateful that I had access to that care.

0 (20m 12s):
So this procedure, you had to terminate your pregnancy to give Frankie peace. When you did it in early 2021, it was legal and now it would be illegal under SB eight. Is that right?

18 (20m 29s):
Basically, if that were to happen today, anyone who aided or abetted that procedure, be it, my husband who drove me to the clinic and had to wait outside with protesters for two days while I was in there, my doctor who referred me to them, be it, anyone who worked inside clinic, they could be open to being sued for a bounty of $10,000. If they were found to have supported me through an abortion that, you know, they call it a heartbeat bill. It's not, there's no heart at five or six weeks pregnant, but there's a flicker of cells.

18 (21m 10s):
My son did have a heart and a heartbeat that I had to listen to out loud in the exam room as part of a medically unnecessary, but legally mandated portion of my initial appointment. There was also a medically unnecessary ultrasound. The screen has to be turned towards the pregnant person. The Doppler heartbeat has to be projected into the room so that I can hear it. All things designed to intimidate and shame. I knew to expect these things, but I thought how effective this could be if I didn't know to expect this, or if my doctor wasn't didn't have the presence of mind to read what she needed to read and then say, this isn't true.

18 (21m 60s):
This isn't true. This is a very safe procedure. And I felt very conflicted. I was, I wanted to stay connected to my son and I wanted to see him or hear his heartbeat. And I knew it was going to be the last time. So it was very, very hard even then. And now that wouldn't be an option for anyone in the state of Texas at that point in pregnancy. And even what is on the books now is set to disappear with a trigger law very soon. Now that row has gone away.

0 (22m 37s):
And your experience inspires you to consult other people going through experiences like these

18 (22m 43s):
Very much. So I think the beginning of my healing was really in connecting with other parents who had been through a similar experience, even finding the term termination for medical reasons. It took a while. I didn't, I didn't know what to Google, to find other people who had been through this, you know, Googling the word abortion can come up with some really inappropriate and scary things. When you're already grieving with termination for medical reasons. It's the stigma inside of a stigma where even in pregnancy and baby loss communities, you're not necessarily sure that you'll be safe or accepted there.

18 (23m 31s):
And there's a lot of unique trauma and experiences that TFMR parents have been through that they may not know how to process, especially seeped in the shame of our society's narrative around abortion.

0 (23m 49s):
Tell us what it's like having a practice like this in Texas, when, as you said, someone could get sued for aiding and abetting an abortion. Even if it's for a wanted pregnancy with some serious medical conditions, like, like the case you had yourself.

18 (24m 7s):
I mean, it's scary. It's scary to have a uterus. And in this state and country right now, having this business certainly felt like a risk parents now kind of have to find their own way and they have to do so outside of their home state, along with anyone else in Texas. And now any of these other states with trigger laws, all of those people are going to be accessing the same resources that are limited These people still need support and they deserve support and care and love for the position that they never ever wanted to be in.

18 (24m 59s):
I do feel afraid sometimes because the law is designed to make me feel afraid. It wants me to back up and shut up. And it wants me to leave these folks out in the cold. So while that sometimes feels effective at other times, I feel very spurred on to fight harder, yell louder, reach out more and make those connections so that these parents are, are not left on their own when they are at their most vulnerable and most hurt.

0 (25m 50s):
That was Jane Armstrong in Texas, where there's SBA eight, in addition to a trigger ban that has yet to go into effect. Our show today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain engineered by FIM Shapiro. Fact-checked by Laura Bullard with help from Matthew collect. And I'm going to I'll Saudi and edited by me. I'm Sean Rama's from it's today explained

Bleecker Street (26m 45s):
This podcast is supported by Bleecker street, presenting the upcoming film, Mr. Malcolm's list it's 18, 18, and London's most eligible bachelor. Jeremy Malcolm has a list of requirements for a bride after failing to make the cut Julia fissile weight seeks revenge by convincing her friend Selena Dolton to play the role of his ideal match. But as Selena starts having feelings of her own for Mr. Malcolm getting even starts getting complicated, starring to Pinto shall be dura SU Oliver, Jackson, Cohen, and Ashley Park with Zoe, Ashton and Theo James, Mr. Malcolm's list. Now playing only in theaters