1 (9s):
Finally infrastructure week,

2 (15s):
You win some, you lose some, just ask president Biden circa last week, let's start with

3 (21s):
A scary set of election results for the democratic party on Tuesday. I'm a loss of the Virginia governor's race, Republican

4 (30s):
And Glen Younkin who made education. A central issue has won

3 (35s):
When the winning some came at the end of the week. When Congress specifically the house of representatives finally got it together and sent the bipartisan infrastructure framework to president Biden's desks.

1 (50s):
We did something that's long overdue that long has been talked about in Washington, but never actually been done.

3 (58s):
And this is a big deal and Biden can check this significant important part of his agenda off his list, but there is still unfinished business relating to the rest of his build back better agenda, which is still tied up in both chambers of Congress. And

2 (1m 16s):
We've got politics box. Take us back to how this thing past late Friday night.

3 (1m 20s):
So the backstory here is that the Senate passed this bill all the way back in August

5 (1m 31s):
On this vote, the A's are 69. Bernays are 30. The bill as amended is passed

3 (1m 39s):
Pass with 19 Republican votes. Biden was pretty happy about it. And then it went over to the house of representatives. The rule provides

6 (1m 48s):
For consideration of the Senate amendment to HR, 36 84 in infrastructure investment in jobs act.

3 (1m 54s):
But then there was a bit of a snack because Progressive's in the house of representatives backed by speaker Pelosi. And it seemed backed by president Biden himself at times, wanted to sit on the bill.

7 (2m 9s):
We have to hold on to that bargaining

3 (2m 11s):
Because they were holding out for the Senate to pass the other big bill that president Biden wants to get done. And that's called the reconciliation bill.

7 (2m 21s):
There is not a reconciliation bill in the house. And if the Senate does not pass the reconciliation bill, we will uphold our end of the bargain and not pass the bipartisan bill until we get all of these investments in

3 (2m 33s):
That's big spending on all sorts of social programs that aren't traditional infrastructure and Democrats badly want passed the house Democrats and the progressors and speaker Pelosi. They didn't trust the Senate to get this done. They specifically didn't trust the two moderate senators, Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Kiersten cinema of Arizona. You know, the

7 (2m 57s):
Read that we have is that they'll just dump the second one, leave the other one out to dry and just never have.

3 (3m 5s):
So the idea was that mansion and cinema really loved this bipartisan infrastructure bill. So the house was going to essentially take it hostage. They were going to say, we're going to wait. We're not going to do anything on this until you guys agree to pass the social spending bill, the other big bill through the reconciliation process in the Senate. So a few months had passed since then. And progress has been made on that second bill, but it has not passed the Senate. It has not even passed the house, but I think eventually there was a bit of nervousness setting in that so much time had passed a fear that this tactic wasn't really working and that there was a risk of ending up with nothing at all with too long past.

3 (3m 55s):
So president Biden and speaker Pelosi finally put some pressure on the house. Progressive's over the past couple of weeks,

8 (4m 7s):
We can't wait too much later afford the legislation. I do believe that there are a large number of members of the progressive caucus who will vote for the bill.

3 (4m 17s):
It wasn't enough to get it done before the Virginia governor's race and they did try to do it, but it was finally enough to get it over the finish line a few days afterward, late on Friday night, What's in the thing. Are we all going to have free wifi pretty soon? I don't know if I can promise that specifically for you, but you can think of it as doing sort of three major things. One is there's a lot of money for what we might call traditional infrastructure spending. And usually in Congress, this tends to be spending for highways, but this bill was designed to be a lot more than that.

3 (5m 1s):
There's a lot of money earmarked for transit and ports, airports, rail. It goes beyond what Congress traditionally does on this. And it's a huge pot of money. That's a lot of it is given to the transportation secretary to kind of use as he wishes, how much money is secretary Pete getting? Do we know about a hundred billion dollars not bad? And so beyond that, there's also a sort of investment in the technology of the future. There's seven and a half billion dollars for electric vehicle charges for another seven and a half billion for electrifying buses and ferries.

3 (5m 42s):
There's a $55 billion on clean water infrastructure, which a lot of it is meant to tackle the problem of lead in pipes, contaminating, drinking, water and other chemicals. And there's billions more for dealing with the effects of climate change and cleaning up pollution and environmental disaster. So, you know, there is environmental aspects of this bill there's technology aspects to this bill, and there's just the traditional building stuff. Part of the bill, that's all going together in a, in a big pot of money and is going to become a law in some

2 (6m 20s):
Money's being spent on this traditional infrastructure bill that that's now past

3 (6m 24s):
Overall, it's over $1 trillion over 10 years, but it's important to distinguish that a lot of that money would have been spent anyway. So the amount of new spending is about $550 billion over 10 years, which is a whole lot.

2 (6m 42s):
And how is it being paid for?

3 (6m 44s):
It's paid for essentially through spit and bailing wire, you know, tricks. These pay for is, were not viewed as the most credible necessarily. And it's an example that, you know, when the moderates in Congress really want to do something, the concerns about the deficit and paying for it, they're willing to look the other way on them. So, you know, the congressional budget office found that this would add 256 billion over 10 years to the deficit. So that is a large chunk that's not paid for, but you know, there's some money that wasn't spent in the COVID relief package that they're going to use and they want to oppose fraud and unemployment benefits, and they think that'll save some money and they're delaying a certain rule of Medicare part D and they think that'll raise money.

3 (7m 40s):
And so, yeah, it's a little questionable and generally less credible than a serious pay for us would be, but everybody's feeling good about bipartisanship. So no one really cares.

2 (7m 53s):
One of the last times, president Biden helped pass a key piece of legislation was the ACA back. Of course, when he was vice president and he famously whispered into a live mic, that it was a big fucking deal into the ear of president Obama. How big a fucking deal is this infrastructure package.

3 (8m 11s):
It's a big deal for sure. This is the biggest infrastructure bill we've had in memory. It's also useful to think about the Biden legislative agenda as a package he's already passed the big COVID relief bill, the American rescue plan back in March. So this is his second big bill and he is gunning for a third as well. But you know, having two big bills passed at this point in time, it really puts him ahead of any recent president. Obama eventually did pass the affordable care act through, but that wasn't until March of his second year in office, getting this done by November and the potential for a third accomplishment, it's pretty impressive.

3 (9m 4s):
As far as presidential whips, leading NGOs,

2 (9m 19s):
A word from our sponsor and then a word or two about that. Other thing Biden hasn't gotten done yet his build back better act, AKA human infrastructure

BetterHelp (9m 38s):
Support for the program today comes from better help. If you haven't heard this one before better help is customized online therapy that offers video phone and even live chat sessions with your therapist. So you don't have to see anyone on camera. If you don't want to, it's much more affordable than in-person therapy, and you can start communicating with your therapist and under 48 hours, why invest in everything else and not your mind. Maybe you've been watching a lot of Sopranos lately. I hear a lot of you have been, and you're like seeing Tony's relationship with Dr. Melfi, who, you know, helps him, even though he's a sociopath. And you're like, I need that. I don't know if Dr. Melfi is available, but a whole lot of folks have better help. Our, the podcast is sponsored by better helping today. Explain listeners get 10% off their first month at better help.com/explained that's B E T T E R H E L p.com/explained

Wondery: American Scandal (10m 32s):
support for the show. Once again, today comes from American scandal from the Wondery folks. It's new season LA steals. Its water tells that story of how LA stole its water from California's Owens valley and ignited a full-out war between the local farmers and the LA big shots. It's a battle that turned ugly and deadly, and was also turned into a movie with Jack Nicholson. The one where they cut his nose. I don't think that was all factual, but certainly inspired by this bananas story that you can now hear told factually in this podcast, listen to American scandal on apple podcasts, Amazon music, or can, you can listen one week early and ad free by joining wandery plus in the Wondery app.

2 (11m 34s):
Okay. Andrew, we talked about what Biden accomplished at the end of last week. Let's talk about the thing that remains to be accomplished. That's the build back better act. What is in that thing again?

3 (11m 43s):
So this is the massive mega bill that contains pretty much the rest of the democratic agenda. At least everything that you can actually pass through the special budget reconciliation bill. So we're talking about spending stuff. We're talking about giving people money, putting a lot of more money in American family's pockets, especially the very poor through the expanded child tax credit

10 (12m 14s):
And can receive up to $300 a month or $3,600 for the year for children.

3 (12m 20s):
We're talking about our helping with child raising expenses by subsidizing childcare funding. Universal pre-K data shows that when kids,

11 (12m 29s):
Kids are in preschool, more mothers can work and a family's overall household income increase.

3 (12m 35s):
We're talking about expanding Medicare to cover hearing benefits. And we're talking about a whole lot of money on climate change to

1 (12m 41s):
Over a billion metric, tons of emission reductions, at least 10 times bigger on climate than any bill that has ever passed before and enough to position us for a 50 to 52% emission reductions by the year 2030,

3 (12m 57s):
This is what progressives care most about and badly want passed into law. And it would be a pretty major accomplishment if it makes it through.

2 (13m 12s):
Got it. So what's the status

3 (13m 13s):
Of this big boy. The main holdup is the Senate and specifically Senator Joe Manchin and Senator Kiersten cinema.

2 (13m 22s):
We've spoken about each of them on the show before, but let's, let's speak specifically about what they want at this moment. What's the latest from senators,

3 (13m 29s):
Cinemas objections have been in the realm of the pay fours for the bill, how it raises revenue that Democrats hope will finance the new social spending laid out in this bill. And there were two aspects to this that she really objected to. One was the way they propose to raise taxes and specifically tax rates on corporations and the wealthiest Americans. And the other was a new initiative to let Medicare negotiate prescription drug prices with the pharmaceutical industry. And she has negotiated changes to the drug part of the package already.

3 (14m 14s):
Then it or

12 (14m 16s):
Cinema has told me she supports this agreement. So I think with,

3 (14m 21s):
As far as the taxes part of it, it's not entirely clear where things stand on that, but the white house tried to meet cinema's concerns by announcing various alternative tax measures that she seems to really have opposed raising rates.

1 (14m 41s):
She's not supportive as she says, she will not raise a single penny in taxes on the corporate side and or on wealthy people

2 (14m 50s):
Period. Okay. So cinema's concerns are about how this has all paid

3 (14m 54s):
Paid for what about Senator mentions? So mansion had a lot of objections. First off, he wanted to lower the overall spending level of the bill. It was $3.5 trillion over 10 years when that was kind of the, the Democrats proposal from their budget committee. And he said he wanted it down to 1.5. So cut by more than half Democrats have now agreed to cut it to 1.75 over 10 years. And so they, they almost went all the way, but also not quite because the way Democrats went about doing this was they still want to do almost everything they had originally proposed.

3 (15m 40s):
They're just trying to do it for fewer years or scale it back. So for instance, instead of funding, a new childcare benefit that will help pay for people's childcare instead of funding that permanently, or instead of funding that for 10 years, they're going to fund it for six years and only partially for three of those years. And you see this again, across various other programs in the bill, from the expanded child tax credit, which would help a lot of families. That's only being expanded for one year. You see a universal pre-K programs.

3 (16m 20s):
That funding would only be for a few years. And this, the thinking here among progressives is that if you do all this stuff, you get it into policy. People start getting these benefits and then they'll like that. And then Congress won't want to let them expire. And so essentially they will end up in practice lasting forever. Even if the bill itself will only fund it for six years, they think there's a good shot that it will be extended permanently by Congress.

3 (17m 0s):
The problem is that mansion understands this

13 (17m 4s):
Nine years of public service and I've been around for a long time. I've never seen anything like this.

3 (17m 9s):
And he said in his press conference last week that he doesn't really buy it.

13 (17m 15s):
The real details outlined, the basic framework are released. What I see are shell games, budget gimmicks that make the real cost of the so-called $1.75 trillion bill estimated to be almost twice that amount, if you extended it permanently,

3 (17m 32s):
He doesn't think that's a good way to legislate. He wants to fund permanent programs, even if it means doing fewer of them, rather than doing a lot of shortened programs.

2 (17m 47s):
How are the difficulties in getting this thing done effecting president Biden? I mean, you mentioned that the infrastructure bill that was indeed passed on Friday was a big deal, but this thing really feels like, you know, the signature part of the actual

3 (18m 4s):
Well Biden's approval rating now is very bad. It's about 43% in a 5 38 tracker. And this legislative gridlock could be one potential contributing factor to that. But I tend to think from the polling data that I've seen that the American public is pretty disengaged from this whole legislative saga in general, there are other bigger things on their mind, the state of the economy, even your morning cup of

14 (18m 36s):
Coffee costs more these days, coffee prices up 5% since last

3 (18m 40s):
The Delta variant and whether the pandemic will ever actually end

15 (18m 44s):
Coronavirus cases is falling in America. But in Europe it has jumped more than 50%. In the past month,

3 (18m 52s):
We saw the controversial withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan that played out in chaotic fashion. We are coming on the air with

16 (18m 60s):
Breaking news, from Afghanistan and explosion at the Kabul airport.

3 (19m 4s):
All of this potentially plays a role, but I think the common thread to a lot of this is that in the first half of the year, voters generally thought Biden had things under control and was doing a good job. But the common thread to a lot of his problems in the second half of the year is perhaps a perception of incompetence or floundering.

2 (19m 27s):
Democrats can pull this off. If they can get the infrastructure infrastructure, plus the human infrastructure, how we'll be looking back on this political moment, you know, years from now.

3 (19m 47s):
Well, that's still very much depends on what actually makes it into the final bill and into law, which is still very much in flux. But if Democrats do manage to get something reasonably close to a Biden's initial proposal, this would really be remembered as a pretty sweeping moment in progressive policy change, liberal policy change. And so, you know, if these programs are enacted, if they are made permanent, I do think that we could be looking back on this year, many years from now as, as a turning point in American public policy.

3 (20m 28s):
But that's a big, if it is a big F and other possibilities, are that nothing passes at all or that whatever does pass is compromised in such a way as to make it temporary, ineffective or badly flawed. We don't know which be the final outcome yet. And we won't until they hammer out those final details in Congress.

2 (20m 54s):
And when that happens, we'll have you back to talk about it. I'm

3 (20m 56s):
Looking forward to it.

2 (21m 2s):
Andrew Procop he's following all the back and forth for you@vox.com. Our episode today was produced by Heidi <inaudible> and miles Bryan I'm Sean Ramez from it's today explained

The Verge (21m 54s):
You probably know that smartphones really got started with the iPhone, but did you know there was an innovative app driven smartphone six years before it I'm Dieter Bohn and in a new documentary from the verge called springboard, the secret history of the first real smartphone. We look at a tiny startup that tried to create the modern phone before anybody was ready for it. The pocket device in the future is going to have a fast inexpensive internet connection, and you're going to use it for voice and data and transactions and so on, But nobody believed them, not the company that they worked at, not the carriers that sold millions of phones a year and not even Steve jobs in our documentary. We revealed the struggles of making a phone before any of the technology supply chain or even the mobile industry itself was remotely ready. All from a tiny company called handspring, Like a rocket. Everybody wanted this product. You can watch springboard now on the free verge TV app and learn more at the verge.com/springboard. That's the verge.com/springboard.