2 (5s):
On the eve of his impeachment President Donald Trump sent Nancy Pelosi a six-page letter. Maybe you heard about it. There's a big fat paragraph right in the middle of it where he lays out what he sees as his accomplishments thus far as president. They are in order the economy what he calls a rebuilt military what he calls a reformed VA more in a hundred seventy new federal judges and to on the Supreme Court tax cuts regulation cuts, the elimination of the individual mandate the first decline in prescription drug prices and half a century space force spent protecting the Second Amendment Criminal Justice Reform less Isis in the world a different NAFTA for the continent something something on trade with China new trade deals with Japan and South Korea withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal ditto for the Paris climate Accord becoming the world's top energy producer throwing all sorts of Bones to Israel reducing illegal border crossings and in what he calls catch-and-release and building what he calls the wall.

2 (1m 13s):
Before the president published this list Matthew yglesias at vaux made his own so we thought we'd close out the year with a conversation about the president's first three years in office and where his accomplishments in those three years leave us in this ever forthcoming election in 2020.

1 (1m 32s):
You know, I think it's useful when you try to think about Trump and actual policy making to sort of distinguish. One thing is in the short term the economic situation, which is so Central to his politics. And politics in general and then the other is what are changes he's made that have had a kind of more lasting impact. He's really left his mark on the Judiciary and immigration on Environmental Policy, but sort of in the day-to-day. I mean the stuff he talks about the stuff people talk about is the state of the economy

2 (1m 60s):
President Trump. Of course ran at least in part on the economy as many Republican candidates do the White House clearly considers it his big accomplishment how has the economy fared under the Trump presidency? Let's start there.

1 (2m 13s):
Are the economy has been doing well. There are definitely problems. But we've seen steady job growth steady reduction the unemployment rate we've seen wages start to go up. We've seen the stock market do very well. We've seen a continuity with the kind of economic improvements the characterized Barack Obama's second term in office except that we've reached a much better level than we were at three or four years ago

2 (2m 37s):
and I always wonder about this and I think we maybe even talked about it before but like how much credit does the president actually Curve for an economy that is continuing to

1 (2m 46s):
grow. It depends how you want to look at it. Right. I mean if you compare Trump to what Trump promised he said his policies were going to give us four percent economic growth. Annually.

3 (2m 55s):
I see no reason why we don't go to four or five and even

1 (2m 58s):
6% They haven't come even close to that. That was a ridiculous thing to promise and the same time if you looked at his Democratic critics, Hillary Clinton was saying Trump was going to derail the recovery. We were going to have a new recession. Thanks to the catastrophic trade Wars he was going To unleash we can't let him bankrupt

3 (3m 16s):
America. Like we are one of his failed

1 (3m 19s):
casinos that hasn't happened either right? So whether you want to consider that Trump deserves credit for not screwing things up or not. I think it's going to have a lot to do with just how you think about Donald Trump as a social and cultural phenomenon. He has not led to any huge disruptions. He's appointed Federal Reserve Governors who have kept the recovery on track. He has increased the budget deficit which is what a lot of Democrats. Saying we needed to do to boost growth when Obama was President. So there's an element of partisan hypocrisy to that but also substantively it has been good. And you know, what's leading to good results for a lot of people

2 (3m 56s):
let's talk about some of the agreements and disagreements. He's had internationally when it comes to the economy you mentioned policies that may not have affected most Americans one trade war with China which a lot of us, perhaps never felt directly, but certainly impacted a lot of of people across the world. How did that all shake out? You know, this trade

1 (4m 17s):
war with China has been a big concern in financial markets has been a tendency for stocks to go up and down.

3 (4m 23s):
We begin with breaking news in our money lead a huge loss on Wall Street today the Dow closing in just a moment down. You hear the Bell there down around 750 points amid an escalation in the US China trade War. So it

1 (4m 36s):
now looks like we are headed toward at least a preliminary settlement. It seems like not that much is going to change if You've looked at the history of trade conflicts. It's pretty typical for both sides to eventually back down and agree to small changes to the status quo. That's where Trump in the Chinese seem to be headed at the end of the day. I think this whole trade war with China is going to have just not amounted to that much.

2 (4m 59s):
What about his trade agreements in negotiations closer to home the updated NAFTA or USMC

1 (5m 5s):
a I mean, this is an extremely small change to the NAFTA agreement that we

3 (5m 9s):
knew the big trade deal the great trade deal one of the greatest. Trade deals ever made for our country

1 (5m 15s):
Mexico and Canada are going to change their copyright law in a way that is a little bit more advantageous to American content companies. Canada is going to make it a little bit easier for Americans to sell dairy products and we're going to put some restrictions on Imports of car parts. So that should make cars a little bit more expensive, but it will be good for Auto Workers at the end of the day. I mean unless you specifically work in the dairy or auto parts manufacturing. It is not that big of a deal and it goes to show that a lot of what's dominated political discussion under Trump has been kind of smoking mirrors and not that closely related to changes. He's made that have really big impacts.

1 (5m 56s):
I imagined

2 (5m 57s):
Business Leaders in the United States are also very happy about what President Trump would consider one of his greatest accomplishments. It's the largest I always say the most massive, but it's the largest tax cut in the history of our country

3 (6m 12s):
and Form but tax cut

1 (6m 14s):
middle-class people got a sort of small tax cut from Trump and business owners and business Executives. Got a huge tax cut, you know Trump does talk about the tax bill but in contrast to trade he doesn't talk in a detailed specific way about it because it cuts so hard against the like populous narratives. He's been shaping, you know, if you are a major shareholder in Apple computer. This has been great for you. If you were the founder of Google this has been incredibly great for If you're a normal person the economy in general is doing fine. It's doing well and you're probably glad that your taxes went down a few hundred bucks. But the real focus of tax policy in the Trump Administration has been on making life easier for business owners,

2 (6m 59s):
and I guess we're sort of transitioning into lasting impact conversations about President Trump's tax bill. I also wonder how he's been on financial

1 (7m 7s):
regulation. Yeah. I mean, this is another aspect of economic policies that Trump has really Eased up on a lot of the new Financial regulations that were put in place in the wake of the financial crisis there. He has reduced the number of financial institutions who are subject to the highest level of regulatory scrutiny. He's cut back on the funding for the sort of basic research functions of the Regulatory Agencies. We have fewer Watch Dogs less aggressive enforcement laxer rules, and the short-term. It hasn't had any harms because the nature of financial crises Is they just don't happen that often but if you switch from like there's a one in a thousand chance of a crisis happening to a one in a hundred chance.

1 (7m 51s):
That's actually really bad. The long-term implications of this for the country are pretty scary. He has built back more risk into the financial system that we had hoped to get rid of after a very very painful recession was touched off.

2 (8m 9s):
It just sounds like when you take into consideration the tax reform and the deregulation and something that we haven't talked about the shrinking social safety net and and government assistance programs. And the way people can qualify for those programs getting more and more restricted that life is getting much better. If you have money in the United States and a little scarier and even harder if you don't

1 (8m 34s):
wait, I mean life has gotten much easier for people who you know. Wealthy business owners investors Executives and made it harder to get nutritional assistance harder to get Medicaid hard to get other kinds of targeted assistance for low-income people. And that's again that's not something you hear the president bragging about a lot. Like I've helped Arkansas throw a lot of people off their Healthcare program that's been a really notable change and it's made a huge difference in the lives of a minority of people but obviously like it transforms your life if you lose health insurance. And you lose your food stamps. Thanks to

3 (9m 10s):
Trump.

2 (9m 24s):
Let's talk about other ways of the president has successfully changed this country with lasting effect that you mentioned at the top of the show immigration the environment and the Judiciary let's let's start with immigration.

1 (9m 37s):
Yeah. I mean we talked a lot about the wall and the sort of metaphysics of whether we're building a new wall of repairing old fences and there are definitely construction projects happening on the southern border. I would say more significantly he is completely revamped. How Asylum works in the United States this took them a while to get at but they have created a situation in which it is now extremely difficult borderline impossible for people to show up at the southern border and claim asylum in the United States. That's an important policy objective of his he's made it very clear that he doesn't want people from quote unquote shithole countries to be able to move to the United States, but it's part of a larger Trend which is that he's changed legal immigration policy.

1 (10m 22s):
In some kind of surprisingly drastic ways given that Congress hasn't passed any new immigration laws. Hmm. He has really cut Refugee resettlement down to almost nothing and that's something that he had executive discretion to do but it used to be that the United States was the world's leading country in terms of taking in refugees who were in camps around the world. We settling them here and we're not doing that anymore. He's made it more difficult to get H-1B visas which are for technical Specialists. He hasn't a Regulation going through the rulemaking process that would say that you were going to qualify as a quote-unquote public charge if you need subsidized health insurance, and so that's going to make it much more difficult for people from poor countries in general to be able to come here and immigrate legally basically every kind of dial of discretion that exists in the immigration process.

1 (11m 14s):
He has turned it down

2 (11m 16s):
when it comes to the way President Trump talks about immigration. It's like this super hard cut right from And Obama to President Trump they are night and day and they're also night and day on the

1 (11m 27s):
environment. Yeah. Absolutely. I Trump as a candidate he drew a clear Distinction on climate change, but he said he was interested in protecting clean air and clean water. You

3 (11m 37s):
know, we have the cleanest air in the world in the United States and it's gotten better. Since I'm President. We have the cleanest water. It's Crystal plane and I always say I want Crystal Clean Water and

1 (11m 47s):
there's an office that has really not been the case. We've seen for the first time in decades. The sort of air pollution metrics get worse people who look at this researchers say thousands of additional people die per year as a result of this increased air pollution. That's mostly a little particles of stood also some kinds of gases that come out on the waterfront. I mean his EPA has gone and reversed rules that were designed to make it harder for farmers and other people to you know, toxins and stuff into fresh waters, and he has moved in a sort of a full-bore way. To open up public lands to more natural resource extraction to reduce oversight of basically everything you can think of and he has successfully pushed or oil and gas production up to much much higher levels than they were at and Trump has been a big cheerleader for these industries.

1 (12m 39s):
We will probably be a net exporter of petroleum products next year, but it is having a marked impact on Americans health and the quality of the air we

2 (12m 47s):
breathe and there's no question that that will be felt for years as well as The president's impact on the Judiciary right? I mean, this is something he's he's constantly bragging about.

1 (12m 57s):
Yeah, I mean he talks all the time about the quantity of Judges. He has appointed in part that's because he is legitimately set a record here

3 (13m 5s):
will have close to 180 federal judges including Appellate Division judges who doesn't

1 (13m 13s):
talk a lot about like who the judges are or what they believe, you know, he's mostly interested in the fact that he's setting records, but these are People who you know, if you talk to experts they are very conservative. They are extremely skeptical of the government's use of regulatory Authority quite friendly to the idea that police and other law enforcement officers should be able to do whatever they want. And even if he loses in 2020, they will have an enduring

2 (13m 40s):
impact and how different is this from previous presidents apart from just sheer quantity. I mean, you heard a lot of stories of like these really unqualified sounding judges being nominated by the president. Is that something

1 (13m 53s):
new, you know, it is a continuation of an earlier Trend. We have under President Trump a clear determination to rely on the sort of federalist society as a wedding institution. Basically, this is a conservative judicial organization that vets people formally and informally to decide that you should have a career in the conservative legal movement and Trump has put forward a lot of people who are on the young side don't have a ton of Experience but who people in the movement believe in and they like them and and Trump has been willing to put those names forward and Senate Republicans have been eager to confirm them and they're just has not been any real checks on that in the way that has existed in the past.

3 (14m 37s):
It's been like have you ever argued emotion in a state trial court? No, sir. I have not have you ever argued emotion in a federal trial court know again. My practice has focused very much on briefing complex legal questions if you ever chosen, Jury, which so I have worked on things like jury questionnaires and about courtroom experience choosing a jury. No, I have not conducted voir dire

1 (15m 4s):
myself. There's no more filibustering of judicial nominees. So Trump doesn't need to worry about finding people who are bland or finding people who have Stella resumes. He just needs to find people who his core supporters are enthusiastic about this is probably the most influential thing he's done he has signed And fewer major pieces of legislation than most recent presidents, but he is appointed more judges.

2 (15m 30s):
Is this part of why the Republican party has so Faithfully stuck by him. Is it the things that he's getting done behind the scenes more than the things that he's going out and saying look what I just signed like like tax reform.

1 (15m 44s):
It's both of the things. It's both were we ended on judges is where we started on the economy right that if you if you come to Trump with the presumption that he's bad you get confirmation every day from his tweets and other Antics that like yeah, this is a bad guy but if you are sympathetic to him and to conservative politics, he has managed the economy. Well people are doing okay and their jobs and their careers and he is putting conservative movement people in lots of influential positions in the Regulatory Agencies and on the Judiciary and fundamentally, that's what a political movement wants from a leader is to sort of keep Faith with it and with its own personnel and Trump for all his eccentricity has been very down the line with those

2 (16m 29s):
appointments and those kinds of accomplishments what supersede things like bullying a teenage environmental activist or saying they're good people on both sides or even being impeached by the

1 (16m 39s):
house. You see a lot of different views that Republicans expressed privately about some of this Trump stuff, but I do think that what it comes down to at the end of the day is that politics is about acquiring and wielding power and in most respects Trump has helped the conservative movement. Obtain and wield power on the issues that they really care about appointments to Regulatory Agencies appointments to judges the tax code. He has moved the ball forward in the ways that conservatives want some of them are enthusiastic about him some of them feel stuck with him. But all of them agree that they are glad he's in the White

2 (17m 16s):
House. Let's just say hypothetically he ends up being a one-term president and we are really judging his presidency on the three years that we have thus far is he more of a George HW Bush more of a Jimmy Carter. Where does he fall in terms of accomplishments and impact on this

1 (17m 34s):
country? I think if you limit it to one term, he has had less impact than most recent presidents that these regulatory changes are consequential and the impact people's lives, but they are also not that hard to reverse. The tax changes are important but the tax code is always changing their always passing new tax laws. He has not effectuated any big structural legislative changes in the way. The President Obama did President Bush did President Clinton did President Reagan did is more similar to George HW Bush or Jimmy Carter or Gerald Ford who all left behind, you know, fairly thin resumes and so far.

1 (18m 15s):
I mean for all the emotional energy that has been expended on Trump. He has not had as as big a policy impact as most recent

2 (18m 23s):
presidents. If you're an undecided voter in the next year and you're doing well financially, do you think Trump has a strong argument even considering impeachment? And any other of the social flaws that you may see in him as a as a candidate for president in 2020,

1 (18m 39s):
if it becomes an election, that's about economic management than Trump has a very very strong position. But if it becomes an argument, that's about you know, is this the kind of leadership that Speaks to Americans highest aspirations, you know, then it's not and in particular if we becomes an argument about health care policy that has been very bad for Republicans historically in 2018. There was a lot of focus on health Democrats have a lot of trust on that issue Republicans in varied little Trump has not done anything to help people with their problems there and you know, that's what Democrats are hoping. They would like to have an election. That's about the tangible ways in which the government can help. Help you with your health care costs your higher education other problems like that Trump would like to make it about very big picture the economy and culture.

2 (19m 31s):
Well, I look forward to discussing it with you over and over again in the New Year

1 (19m 35s):
Matthew over and over again, it will never end. Thank you,

2 (19m 44s):
Matthew Iglesias AKA Mateo Church hosts a podcast at vaux called the weeds. It's where he really lets his deeds flag fly. I'm Shawn promise from this is today explained our executive producer was Irene. No good. Ichi Irene is moving on up and moving on out. She was the very first person to join me in an empty corner of this box office here in Washington DC. We together hired a team dreamt up a show and she has been leading the show and the team ever since her work has been tireless from day one and along with a theme and no mmm, Amna Halima Bridget and brake master. I will be thanking her for ever for her work that is facts.

2 (20m 27s):
Olivia said so Thank you, Irene. We wish you all the best. This is also the last time I will tell you that our show is produced in association with Stitcher in the New Year. We are doubling down on the VOX media podcast Network and amicably ending our co-production partnership with Stitcher bottomless. Thanks to all of our friends at Stitcher who helped bring our show into existence and supported it for two years. How much do we owe you in the words of 21 Savage a lot. Your favorite all killer no filler news explainer is back on the 2nd of January. 20 shoutouts to Barbara Walters. Thank you for listening to today explained have a very happy and healthy New Year.