1 (5s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. You are

2 (9s):
I'm Howard Wilkinson senior political analyst at 91.7 w V X U in Cincinnati.

1 (18s):
I love it. How long have you been covering politics and analyzing politics in your neck of Ohio?

2 (24s):
Well, all over Ohio of, since 1974,

1 (28s):
Since 1974. So JD Vance was negative 10 years old. When you started,

2 (34s):
That would be correct. Most people are

1 (39s):
Coming up. James, David Vance, and the most bananas. That's a quote, Republican primary in America. What it tells us about a party that might be in disarray or might be finding its way

3 (60s):
Support for the show today comes from, are you sleeping? It's a newish podcast from the sleep experts over at mattress firm in collaboration with the sales experts over at Vox creative, are you sleeping dives into some of the most fascinating, real life sleep stories you've ever heard to reveal that you're not alone. In episode two sisters uncover the genetic secrets of their need for only a few hours of sleep. Each night, a researcher thinks their genes may hold the key to optimal sleep for everyone. I got to get some of them genes listen to, are you sleeping wherever you listen.

1 (1m 47s):
JD. Vance's a figure of national importance these days, but he made his bones with a best-selling memoir about growing up in white working class, Ohio. It's one of those books that strives to explain a place and its people, which is why we wanted to talk to Howard Wilkinson, who knows the place and the people. What did you think about the book?

2 (2m 8s):
I thought it was okay. I mean, I, you know, I, to me, that's a subject that I'm very familiar with because I grew up in Dayton, Ohio, which had a very large Appalachian population. People would come up from Kentucky and Tennessee looking for jobs, looking for, you know, a better life. So I understood the premise and I also understood the kind of challenges that those folks face. You know, I thought it was good, but not great. I don't think it was like that's a classic American literature.

1 (2m 48s):
There was a sense that JD Vance was a kind of Oracle who could explain Donald Trump's win to people who were quite surprised by it. Did you feel that in Ohio or were you looking around the landscape in Ohio and saying we don't need, we don't need anyone to explain why Donald Trump won. Of course, Donald Trump won

2 (3m 8s):
People in Ohio. Certainly weren't looking at JD Vance's and Oracle and anything. They were looking at him cause a guy who wrote a book who hadn't lived here in Ohio for most of his adult life, He wrote a long piece in the Atlantic in 2016, you know, all on the subject. And it was one of those kind of, I am the Oracle. And I can tell you why these people were supporting Donald Trump. Well, not that many people on the street and in Ohio cities or in the farm towns or in the suburbs are reading those articles.

2 (3m 52s):
And he just wasn't a factor.

1 (3m 55s):
What was going on in Ohio politics when this book came out?

2 (3m 58s):
Well, one of the things, I mean, Donald Trump was going on. There was a lot of division between the folks who supported Trump's candidacy and the people in a more of the mainstream of the party, the old traditional Republicans who dominated politics in the suburbs of the major cities and they supported John Casick, the governor of Ohio. And there was something going on. It was the same kind of thing that was going on in a lot of states where people were frustrated, they were thinking that they were not paid attention to in Washington.

2 (4m 39s):
They were not paid attention to in Columbus. And they were looking for someone who would work for them. They saw Trump as that person because he promised I will make a bet. I can make it better. I'm not sure he did in the long run, but people were grasping for basically grasping for straws and trying to find someone who they can pin their hopes to. And, and Donald Trump was available.

4 (5m 8s):
I mean, now is the official call inside this room that Donald Trump has taken the 18 electoral votes from Ohio. You can hear the crowd, which is sort of really reaching a crescendo here.

1 (5m 22s):
JD Vance had been out in the bay area, decides that he's going to move back to his home state and wants to represent Ohio in the Senate. What was the reaction?

2 (5m 31s):
Nobody really talked about it much at the time. They hadn't seen him. And he was kind of this new figure on the scene. They knew, you know, about hillbilly Elegy and they knew about the movie and they knew a few things about him. I think it was probably a surprise to most people that he really hadn't been in Ohio resident for a long, long time. Once that set in, some people looked at them and said, okay, that's fine. We don't, we don't, it doesn't bother us. You know, he is an Ohio boy and he's just coming back home and he wants to help others looked at it and said, nah, he's a carpet bagger.

1 (6m 11s):
If you're running for office, you do need to convince some people or at least some percentage of people that you're not a carpet bagger that you really are of the region. If you're not recently from the region, how has JD Vance gone about doing that? How's it convincing people?

2 (6m 27s):
I don't know that he is. I mean, what he does is he talks a lot about what he sees as the, the issues that are important to Ohio Republicans.

5 (6m 38s):
We're for middle-class people being able to raise a family and do it on a single income we're for the reindustrialization of this country. So we make more stuff in America. We build our own things. We don't have to rely on the communist Chinese to make our pharmaceutical products.

2 (6m 51s):
Yeah, I don't remember. I mean, now he's in a, in a primary contest, you know, his audiences, Ohio Republicans, who for the most part voted for Trump. And so he, he basically has kind of mimicked the Trump agenda.

5 (7m 7s):
Do you want to go down the pathway of an America first agenda? Or do you want to go down the pathway of doing the things that we were doing in the Republican party 20 or so years ago? Cause I don't think

2 (7m 17s):
We're talking a lot about China and talking a lot about the border situation. You know, he very famously said he really didn't care what happened in Ukraine

5 (7m 29s):
At the end of the day, we should not be doing a no fly zone. We should not be getting involved in Russia at all. It's not our problem.

2 (7m 36s):
It was more interested in people flooding over the Southern border, which didn't go over well with a lot of folks. But you know, others looked at and said, yeah, that's right. And that's what Donald Trump says.

1 (7m 49s):
JD Vance was once a critic of Donald Trump's. He went from that position to welcoming Donald Trump's endorsement. How does he justify it?

2 (7m 58s):
How he justifies it? He said, well, look he said, yeah, I wasn't very fond of Donald Trump in the beginning

5 (8m 4s):
Because I've been very open about the fact that I did say those critical things and I regret them and I regret being wrong about the guy. I think that he was a good president. I think he made a lot of good decisions for people. And I think he took a lot of flag.

2 (8m 15s):
It convinced me that this man was the person who should be the president of that state should have a second term as president of the United States. And I supported him in 2020. That's what he said

1 (8m 27s):
Is Donald Trump's endorsement, a game changer for JD Vance? Does it mean he definitely wins now?

2 (8m 33s):
No, it doesn't mean that at all. It does mean it it's. It helps him. There's no question about that. Give him a bump in the polls. But the reaction among Ohio Republicans has been mixed at best. There are a lot of folks in the Republican party in are Republican voters who are kind of shaking their heads and say, why, why JD, Vance and not everybody's buying this and it's not going to make or break JD Vance. I mean, he still has to work for the sun. Josh Mandela has Ted Cruz doing TV ads for him.

6 (9m 17s):
And Biden's inflation send Josh Mandale to watch.

2 (9m 21s):
My Gibbons has a Rand. Paul is very popular among the Trump crowd.

7 (9m 27s):
I'm Ron Paul. I know Mike Gibbons would join me and demanding that Fowchee is immediately fired and removed from office.

2 (9m 35s):
There are many, many Republican leaders, particularly county party chairs who begged Trump not to do this. And to a certain extent, I think it's, you know, the Trump endorsement coming on a did so late in the game. If this had happened a couple of months ago, it might've helped it might've sealed the deal for JD Vance. But at this point, Republican voters in Ohio, they know who these people are.

1 (10m 5s):
Do you think JD Vance is kind of a typical politician who tries on identities and uses which identity works in order to win? Like, what do you think is at this gentleman's core?

2 (10m 17s):
That's what I've been trying to figure out too, because he has changed, you know, a number of times during his lifetime and there's politics does that to people and being a candidate for public office. And particularly in this atmosphere makes a politicians change.

1 (10m 42s):
Do you think JD Vance could beat the Democrat in the, in the actual Senate race? Post-primary you think he could win?

2 (10m 48s):
I don't know if he's going to win the primary. I think it's entirely possible he could win the primary. I think it's also entirely possible that he could lose and that the Trump voters will be so divided among these candidates that they what'll happen is that they are going to possibly make somebody like Matt Dolan, who hasn't been playing this Trump game, come up through the middle and actually win Anything's possible. Right now I've been calling this musical chairs. This is going to be one of those primary elections where whoever's sitting in the last chair in the room.

2 (11m 33s):
When the music shuts off, that's going to be the winner. And it changes from day to day to day

3 (12m 11s):
As I mentioned earlier, support for the programs they comes from. Are you sleeping a podcast from mattress firm and the good folks over at Vox creative, kind of like our, our sales team over here at Vox media. That's the parent company of vox.com. Where, where I work are you sleeping? Is a podcast. All about sleep, sleep, quality, how you can be sleeping more, how some people manage to sleep less. They're going to talk about genes. They're going to talk about kids in the bed, ruining your sleep. They're going to talk about all of it. Personally. I just got over the COVID-19 and while I had it, the one thing I did a lot more of than usual was sleep.

3 (12m 57s):
I'm like a go to bed at two in the morning kind of guy. And then all of a sudden I was like, go to bed at 10:00 PM kind of guy. I wonder if it will last and wow, check out. Are you sleeping and subscribe wherever you listen, are you sleeping?

5 (13m 20s):
The president is right. I wasn't always nice. But the simple fact is he's the best president of my lifetime. And he revealed the corruption in this country. Like nobody else

1 (13m 32s):
Stepped by telling me your name and what you do.

8 (13m 34s):
I'm Ben Wallace Wells. And I'm a staff writer at the new Yorker.

1 (13m 37s):
You are not a native Ohioan, but you spent some time there. Why did you want to watch this primary play out out of all the big primaries this year

8 (13m 45s):
From a distance and the way that it had been described in the national media, it was just the most bananas race in the country.

10 (13m 55s):
The left is trying to teach our kids. There's over 50 genders in as young as eight years old, you can just pick your gender.

11 (13m 60s):
We're being lied to by everybody about Ukraine. Putin's lying to us. Salinsky is lying to us. The UN's lying to us. Our government's lying to us. Our intelligence community is lying to us

8 (14m 11s):
At one candidate forum. Two of the candidates almost got into a physical fight.

12 (14m 15s):
You don't know squat,

13 (14m 16s):
Two tours in Iraq. Don't tell me I've been work back off.

5 (14m 21s):
We were effectively run in this country via the Democrats, be it via our corporate oligarchs, buy a bunch of childless cat ladies who are miserable at their own lives and the choices that they've made. And so they want to make the rest of the country miserable too. And it's,

10 (14m 34s):
And let me say it very clear. I believe this election was stolen.

8 (14m 43s):
All of these people were competing for Donald Trump's endorsement and in a deeper level, they were competing for the enthusiasms of his voters. And that seemed inspire just a very crude approach to politics. When I spoke to campaign operatives, what I heard was that this was a party and a race where people were trying to figure out what it might mean to be a working class party, what it might mean to build the party around an appeal to working class voters, where they had understood the legacy of Trump as you know, a new kind of voter to appeal to. And that part of what was going on in this race was a sort of working out of different theories of different possibilities of how that might function.

1 (15m 26s):
What were you seeing that made you think this is designed to appeal to working class people?

8 (15m 32s):
I think the sort of easiest, the kind of lowest common denominator reaction from consultants and candidates is that what Trump has given them is just licensed to be cruder. You know, it's licensed to say bad words, it's licensed to say nasty things about people who are different. Then there is this layer that I think JD vans though, he also has taken part in. It sort of represents a second response, which is sort of to take seriously the part of Trumpism that views elites, globalization sort of new liberal world as pretty corrupt and to make his own politics a kind of aggressive stance against that.

1 (16m 10s):
JD Vance went to Yale law school. How does he explain that one away? If he wants to suggest that he's a guy who is not representative of the elite, does anyone ask him about it?

8 (16m 21s):
Vance is good at some parts of politics and less good at others. He's pretty cerebral. He's pretty engaged in what ordinary voters are sort of asking and saying, but you know, the kind of basic blocking and tackling of campaigning where you explain or deflect obvious criticisms of you. He, he's not, he's not really there yet.

14 (16m 41s):
I just want to know how can you claim to represent Appalachia while at the same time being so fundamentally disconnected to it? Not just Appalachia, but also people who attend a college like mine. Sure.

5 (16m 55s):
Well, I don't think I'm so disconnected. I mean, I don't think Ohio Wesleyan is where you go to school. You go to school here. I don't think it's that different from Ohio state, right? That's where I went to, went to college, look, man, I'm not going to hide from the fact that I've been very successful and I've been very lucky. I've worked hard, but I've also, you know, everybody I think gets, it gets a few lucky breaks.

1 (17m 13s):
Why did Donald Trump endorsed this man?

8 (17m 16s):
Trump wants to win. He wants to, you know, continue to demonstrate to this party that he is the essential figure because he is the man who can get candidates victories. He is the man who can connect with the new base of the party. Vance to me was certainly the most impressive of the figures that I saw in Ohio. He was the smartest. He had a view of what the Republican party should be doing that went beyond this kind of pattern of crudity that, that we discussed. If you were going to put your finger on somebody and say, you know, I want to tip the scale for this guy. That seemed to be a pretty good bet because you know, he would obviously, oh, the election to Trump.

8 (18m 0s):
He also probably would be a favorite to, to win in November, over Tim Ryan, the Democrats running. So it seems sort of like a, like a good match for somebody who wanted to win, wanted to be seen as a kingmaker. He fits Trumpism in a way that the others don't.

1 (18m 16s):
What did JD Vance represent before his political bid? Do you think? And to whom

8 (18m 23s):
I think JD Vance succeeded as a public intellectual because he evoked a kind of liberal guilt. I think he, he represented a vision of small town America that had been degraded and betrayed by the forces of finance, industrial and economic change.

5 (18m 43s):
So my grandparents really were optimistic about the future. They thought that their children would have the American dream, even though my grandparents were born in poverty in Eastern Kentucky coal country, but it hasn't really materialized. And you think about these areas that have really suffered economically that have stagnant upward mobility. It's a certain pessimism about what their own children and grandchildren will expect. And I think that's where the real bitter bitterness comes from.

8 (19m 7s):
He presented himself as a witness to the ways in which that pressured rural America and the ways in which community and family fabrics might serve as a sort of counterweight or mechanism of repair during the 2016 election. When we were all talking about deaths of despair and the opioid epidemic and trying to, to understand Trumpism and just the anger of Republican voters in general, I think he offered a pretty compelling thesis, which was, there is something sort of fundamental that is behind all this. As he began to spot a political career for himself, he sort of fell into some of the patterns that have consumed much of the rest of the Republican party and became a somewhat less distinct figure.

1 (19m 55s):
You wrote something in your piece, you noticed that JD Vance seems to use the word corruption. Now in a way that according to you corruption could be applied to almost any institution at all.

8 (20m 9s):
Corruption is just a word he used at ton in following him around on, on the trail. He spoke about the corruption of the democratic party. He spoke about the corruption of elite sprawl, the of, of tech companies, the corruption of the FBI

5 (20m 24s):
Five, six years ago, if you had told me and I was naive, but if you had told me that the FBI would have spied on a us presidential candidate, I would have said, no, that's crazy. That wouldn't happen.

8 (20m 34s):
What eventually persuaded him, that, that he had been wrong about Donald Trump was that the corruption that Trump identified in Washington was more pronounced, more vivid, a bigger deal than he had thought

5 (20m 48s):
That corruption and the fact that so many powerful people tried to destroy the president made me realize, you know, there's something about this guy. That's very important. That's very meaningful in this.

8 (20m 57s):
There is something interesting in there. There's also something pretty dark in there. Voters, people who would come to the town hall would sort of, you know, sort of speculatively raise different sort of stories from the news. They'd talk about vaccination protocols and ask if there's something corrupt going on there. They talk about hunter Biden's laptop and ask if there's something corrupt going on there. And dance generally sort of say, say yes, yes. I think there might be. I think it's something that should be looked into. I think we ought to investigate

15 (21m 25s):
Because Nancy Pelosi, it turns out is the world's best to pick her of stocks, right? She's got some rich picking socks or, well, she's a genius, right? And somehow she's the speaker of the house on one hand and she's this great stock picker. And you realize it's not because of genius because of corruption

8 (21m 38s):
Is very general what we would call populist sort of message. And orientation that there had been that had been part of his presentation from, from the beginning had sharpened. I think discharge of, of corruption is a much more, a much deeper, a more pervasive and a sort of darker version. It's not a total transformation of who he is, but I do think that, you know, whether it's sincere or whether it's simply an adaptation to circumstance, he's talking in somewhat darker, somewhat more conspiratorial ways. Now there's a different palette. There's a different mood than maybe I had heard from him at least a couple of years earlier.

1 (22m 23s):
Why do you think it matters to so many people, whether JD Vance has changed?

8 (22m 27s):
I think it matters because the Republican party feels totally up for grabs right now. It's not clear at all what the party is going to kind of stand for in five years. And you can draw an argument right now that says, basically nothing's changed still Mitch McConnell's party, still in the pocket, big business, still, you know, personally and social conservatism, but you can also draw an argument that says, Hey, wait a second. Like maybe all of this hostility towards Facebook, towards China, towards Amazon to towards illegal immigrants. Maybe that's not just a passing thing with Trump. Maybe that's not just specific to this one figure, but maybe that's going to be a central part of the Republican party and its politics going forward.

8 (23m 15s):
This sort of orientational question of, of what, what the party stands for, of what it stands against is, is really important. It feels really up for grabs. And I think that Vance is somebody who is close to a lot of establishment figures in the Republican party, you know, earlier on who came out of Yale law school, who has a fancy book agent, you know, who was sort of part of a very elite world. I don't say that pejoratively either, but I do think it suggests that like people have thought this is a talent for quite a time and sort of an interesting figure. And so though he doesn't have the same profile as Trump, you know, though he's a less significant figure in the evolution of the Republican party in the same way that, that what Donald Trump actually cared about, didn't care about in the same way that that mattered who JD Vance is.

8 (24m 3s):
Those questions really matter too, in a party where the lines of right and moderate were more clearly drawn. I think that, you know, these questions of personal orientation of change of persona would matter less. That's not the Republican party that we're, that we're living with right now, right now in both interesting and complicated ways. Things are just up for grabs

1 (24m 35s):
Today's show was produced by Victoria Chamberlain edited by Matthew Collette. Fact-checked by Laura Bullard engineered by a FEMA Shapiro I'm Noel king it's today explained

3 (25m 25s):
In conclusion, this show today has been brought to you by are you sleeping a relatively new podcast from the sleep experts at mattress firm and the good people at Vox creative. If you're not sleeping, if you are sleeping, if you're curious about sleep, if sleep is an integral part of your life, which who are we kidding? It is you may listen to, are you sleeping wherever you listen? Don't forget to subscribe. If you like, what you hear? Are you sleeping.