1 (1s):
What happened yesterday is 1 5 2 little blonde Wiley female attorney and 1 79 year old, five nine year old.

2 (11s):
Yes.

1 (12s):
5 9 5 9 79 year old advice columnist b Donald Trump in court.

3 (19s):
True facts. Former president and current 2024 Republican front runner, Donald Trump was found liable yesterday for sexual abuse and defamation in order to pay 5 million to the woman who accused him of both. Some of Donald Trump's defenders responded that he was found liable for sexual abuse, but not for rape. But Eugene Carroll's lawyer suggested that may be a distinction rather than a difference.

2 (44s):
So New York law in this area is complicated, and I'm not gonna take the time to, to your listeners to try to explain it.

3 (50s):
We are though. That's our job on today. Explained how a Me too era law took a 30 year old incident from allegation to conviction.

4 (1m 2s):
There's this new show out all about an all powerful AI that has taken over the world, but it's not evil. It's actually very nice.

5 (1m 12s):
Every time we see a story about ai, it only has one idea, and that is to destroy humanity. We felt like the idea that was perhaps a little bit even more frightening was what if it just wanted to make us happy?

4 (1m 27s):
Damon Lindelof and Tara Hernandez on their series, Mrs. Davis, this week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast cast.

3 (1m 49s):
It's today explained from Vox Constance. Grady is a correspondent for vox.com. She's been writing about Eugene Carroll's lawsuit, which starts with an account of an assault here.

6 (1m 59s):
According to Eugene Carroll, Trump attacked her in the dressing room of a Bergdorf Goodman department store in New York City. Somewhere between 1994 and 96,

1 (2m 10s):
I was coming out and he was coming in. He was standing out and he put his hand like this. So I did not go through the revolving door. He came in, he said, Hey, you're that advice lady? And I said, Hey, you're that real estate tycoon. He said, come advise me. I wanna buy a present.

6 (2m 25s):
At the time, she has a daily advice show on cable news. So she's sort of a known figure about town as is he. Trump tells her that he is shopping for a gift for a girl, and he wants her opinion on what he should buy. So they start going around the store, they're joking, they're talking about the things he could maybe buy.

1 (2m 44s):
It was such a great moment. So how about the handbags? Oh no, he doesn't want a handbag. Well, how about a,

6 (2m 51s):
And then eventually they get to the lingerie apartment,

1 (2m 54s):
And I am just like, oh, I can dine out forever on this story. We're gonna go get lingerie.

6 (3m 1s):
So then Trump holds up a lace body suit and says, try it on. And Eugene Carroll says, as a joke, oh no, you try it on. You know, it's your size, it's your color.

1 (3m 9s):
I used to be a writer at Saturday Night Live. I see an entire sketch of making Donald Trump put this filmy thing over his pants. That is what I'm thinking. I am not thinking. I think it's, I just, I was laughing as I said it. He said, well, you know, he went

6 (3m 27s):
Like this, may go over to the dressing room. Agent Carol says that at this point, she's still thinking, this is just a really funny joke. She's gonna be telling at every cocktail party she ever goes to. And

1 (3m 36s):
The minute I was in there, he shut the door and pushed me up against the wall and bang, bang my head on the wall and kissed me. I just, it was so shocking. And that was when it turned serious. I realized that this was, this was, this was a fight.

6 (3m 59s):
She has said that he penetrated her vaginally with his fingers. He, to use the Trump phrase, grabbed her by the pussy. And then she says that he penetrated her with his genitals. So she's accusing him of rape.

3 (4m 15s):
Does she then report the rape to the police? Who does she tell

6 (4m 19s):
Aging? Carol tells two of her friends about the attack around the time that it happens. At this point, she is not using the word rape herself. One of them says he raped you. She tells her to go to the police, offers to go with her, and the other friend says, you know what? Forget it. He is extremely litigious. He will bury you when lawyers, he will make your life miserable. Just pretend that this never happened. And at this point in time, that is the friend that Eugene Carroll listens to.

3 (4m 45s):
When do Eugene Carroll's accusations against Trump? First become public knowledge. When does she say something publicly?

6 (4m 52s):
Adrian Carol first comes forward with her accusations about Trump in 2019. She writes a memoir. It's titled, what Do We Need Men for? A Modest Proposal, among other things, it describes her encounter with a number of what she calls hideous men, whom she accuses of some form or other of misconduct. The allegations against Trump are the most damning, and they're also the most explosive. They're immediately an extremely big deal.

3 (5m 19s):
She writes about this in her memoir. She's speaking publicly. How does this though end up in court after all those years and in court? What is Eugene and Carol accusing Trump of?

6 (5m 30s):
So this is a little bit of a journey as to how this issue ends up in court. When she first comes forward with her accusations in 2019, Trump responds. He says that he, that she is lying, that he has no idea who she is. One of the things he says is, this is a direct quote. I'll say it with great respect. Number one, she's not my type. Number two, it never happened. It never happened, okay? So Eugene Carroll responds to that by saying, okay, this is calling me a liar, saying that I'm too ugly to assault. This is defamation. And that's the initial legal claim that she files against Donald Trump in 2019. It's not about the sexual assault, it's about him saying that she lied.

6 (6m 12s):
So what's important to know here is this is actually not that uncommon of a legal strategy to take when you're accusing someone of sexual assault. And you're saying that the crime occurred a number of years ago because most sexual assault cases have a statute of limitations. And if that statute has run out, which is the case here, then one thing that a survivor can do after making a public accusation is look at how the alleged attacker response. So if he denies the allegations, then the survivor can say, you're calling me a liar. That's damaging my public reputation. And they can take the attacker to court for defamation. And that can be a way of getting some kind of legal acknowledgement of the attack on the record, even if it's too late, to bring the attacker up on sexual assault charges.

6 (6m 56s):
So that's something that we see with, for example, bill Cosby, who was sued by seven women in a case that was settled in 2019. So all of them had accused him of sexual assault. He had denied it all seven times, and all of them ended up suing him for defamation. And one of the issues here is that because of the shame associated with sexual assault in our culture, it's really, really common for survivors to stay silent and about an attack for years or decades after it happens. And then if someday they change their minds, they decide they wanna come forward, maybe get some form of legal restitution, our system is kind of like oof tough. You know, you missed your window. So the defamation strategy is sort of a workaround, and that is what initially Eugene Carroll is doing here.

3 (7m 41s):
Okay? She starts out suing for defamation, but then he's found liable for sexual abuse. How do we get there?

6 (7m 49s):
So here is where we can see one of the effects of the Me Too movement and the way it really took off in 2017, after that happens, after the accusations against Harvey Weinstein and all of this sort of avalanche of other accusations coming forward, we start to see some efforts from the legal system to address this problem of survivors not having enough time to make their accusations. One of the strategies that lawmakers come up with in New York State is called the Adult Survivors Act. And basically what that says is, well, me Too, is making a lot of people look back at things that have happened to them years and years ago that maybe they didn't have words for at the time that it happened. And now they're saying, oh, I think that might have been sexual assault.

6 (8m 29s):
And we recognize, you know, this is a big social shift, so we're gonna get people a one time window of one year from November of 2022 to November of 2023 to file a civil case against someone who sexually abused them no matter how long ago the abuse took place. And so as soon as the Adult Survivors Act passes, Eugene Carroll uses that to file a civil suit against Donald Trump.

3 (8m 53s):
Got it. And that's how we end up in court in late April. Tell me about the trial.

6 (8m 59s):
So the trial begins on April 25th. It lasts for two weeks. During those two weeks, Eugene Carroll testifies over the course of three days, and then her legal team also calls up 10 additional witnesses. So that is including the two friends she originally told about the assault, an expert witness, psychiatrist, and two women who have said that they were also sexually assaulted by Trump in similar ways. The two women who are testifying for Eugene Carroll here are Lisa Bernbach. So she is another writer. She's the one who told Eugene Carroll that Trump had raped her and told her to go to the police about it. And then also, Carol Martin, Carol Martin, also a writer, also a friend of Eugene Carrolls.

6 (9m 44s):
She's the one who told Eugene Carroll after she'd been attacked to forget about it and not try to fight it in court because Trump would be so litigious.

3 (9m 54s):
How does Donald Trump react during this trial? This very public trial?

6 (9m 58s):
Donald Trump's reaction to this trial is interesting and kind of deeply characteristic of Trump because he's really talking out of both sides of his mouth on this one. He gives an interview during the trial where he says that he's going to come to New York and he's gonna confront Eugene Carroll, and then he does not. He stays in the British Isles opening golf courses. He does not show up at the courthouse. He does not testify. And in fact, his lawyer does not present any case at all to the jury. They do not call any witnesses of their own. So while Trump is not in the courtroom in person, we do see videos of his deposition from last November, and Carol's lawyers play this for the jury.

6 (10m 39s):
And what we see in the deposition video is pretty damning. He reiterates once again that Eugene Carroll is not his type, and then when he's shown a picture of him standing next to her, he kind of gets her mixed up with his wife at the time. Marla,

8 (10m 57s):
I don't even know who the woman, let's say, I don't know who. It's Marla.

2 (11m 2s):
You're saying Marla's in this photo.

8 (11m 4s):
That's Marla. Yeah, that's that's my wife. Which

2 (11m 7s):
Woman are you pointing to? No,

8 (11m 8s):
That's Carol. Oh, that the person you just pointed to was James Carroll. Who is that? Who is this

2 (11m 14s):
Point? Your wife?

6 (11m 15s):
He also tells her lawyer, Roberta Kaplan, you wouldn't be a choice of mine either. And he kind of doubles down on the Access Hollywood tape

2 (11m 25s):
In this video. I just start kissing them. It's like a magnet, just kiss. I don't even wait. And when you're a star, they let you do it. You can do anything. Grab 'em by the pussy, you can do anything. That's what you said,

8 (11m 39s):
Correct? Well, historically, that's true with stars.

2 (11m 42s):
It's true of stars that that they can grab women by the pussy. Well,

8 (11m 45s):
That's what it's, if you look over the last million years, I guess that's been largely true. Not always, but largely true, unfortunately. Or unfortunately.

2 (11m 55s):
Can you consider yourself to be a star?

8 (12m 0s):
I think you can say that. Yeah.

6 (12m 2s):
So he's really not doing a great job of countering Eugene Carroll's story in this video, and that's partially why her lawyers bring it out. It looks very, very bad for him, and this is something that he seems to be trying to spin for his base. So he posts on his social media network, truth social on May 9th. He says, falsely, I was not allowed to speak or defend myself in the courtroom, but that's a lie. He was offered multiple opportunities to testify on his own behalf. In fact, the judge offers him an extension after the defense has rested their case, saying that he can specially request to open the case back up and testify before the jury begins deliberations. And Trump doesn't do any of that.

6 (12m 43s):
He is choosing not to testify and lying about it. So

3 (12m 46s):
That brings us back to the guilty verdict itself. What does it mean for Trump? So

6 (12m 51s):
One thing that's important to note about this verdict is that it's not a guilty verdict necessarily, right? It's a verdict of liability. So Trump is not being found guilty of criminal charges. He's not going to face jail time. What he has to do is pay aging Carol 5 million in damages both compensatory for her pain and suffering after the attack, and for harming her reputation due to the defamation. One of the open questions is whether this is going to affect his political career going forward. For a lot of politicians, I think that would not be an open question. I think being found liable for sexual battery in a legal court would be kind of a career killer.

6 (13m 34s):
But Trump's relationship with his base is so singular, and he has had his political career survived so many scandals before that. In this case, I think a lot of people are kind of wondering what's next for him?

3 (13m 47s):
Does he have $5 million?

6 (13m 49s):
That's a great question. We do not know that much about Trump's financial situation because he has kept it so opaque.

3 (13m 57s):
I was mostly joking. But yeah,

6 (14m 0s):
We really don't know. It's very likely, of course, that he will try to tie this up in appeals for as long as possible to hold off paying

3 (14m 16s):
Up ahead v's. Stance. Grady comes back to reflect on a truly surprising fact about the jury in this case.

9 (14m 38s):
Hey folks, I'm Heather Cox Richardson. And I'm

0 (14m 41s):
Joanne Freeman.

9 (14m 42s):
We're the hosts of now and then a podcast from Cafe and the Vox Media podcast network that looks to the American past to make sense of our current political and cultural climate.

10 (14m 54s):
Recently, we've traced the tangled history of the New York County District Attorney's office, the American cultural fascination with UFOs and our national love hate relationship with the banking industry.

9 (15m 4s):
Tune in each Wednesday as we make sense of the headlines and the long road to this crucial moment for democracy.

10 (15m 11s):
Listen for free, wherever you get your podcasts,

11 (15m 17s):
You're married, but you're not in love and I'm in love with you. And that is what Microsoft's AI powered chatbot recently wrote to the New York Times tech columnist, Kevin Russ. It made Kevin feel torn.

12 (15m 33s):
One part of me is kind of my rational reporter brain part, and that part goes, what I am talking to here is not some kind of mystical, sentient, alien intelligence. It is a computer. But then there's this other part of me that just felt like amazed and thrilled and a little bit scared, maybe more than a little bit scared,

11 (15m 58s):
Because imagine the consequences of tech that's convincingly intelligent, even to a tech reporter. I'm Peter Kafka, the host of Recode Media. In the final episode of our special series on ai, we look at the giant ambitions and enormous concerns people have about the very same tech. Subscribe to Recode Media to listen. Now,

3 (16m 25s):
It's today explained Donald Trump, a day after losing to Eugene Carroll is still running for president constance grady vox.com. What's been the reaction to the verdict so far?

6 (16m 36s):
We are seeing a lot of vindication from Eugene Carroll's side. She has said that she's very pleased with the results. I'm

1 (16m 43s):
Overwhelmed. Overwhelmed with joy and happiness and delight for the women in this country.

6 (16m 50s):
A lot of her supporters are very happy. Trump himself has responded to say that it is a witch hunt and a hoax, and that he still doesn't know who she is.

14 (17m 1s):
I have absolutely no idea who this woman is. The verdict is a disgrace, a continuation of the greatest witch hunt of all time. Absolutely a shame.

6 (17m 14s):
There has also been some mixed emotions I've seen from some people on both sides. People who supported Carol feel on some cases kind of upset that she wasn't vindicated in her accusation of rape. And people who supported Trump feel vindicated that he's not being called a rapist, but are angry that he was found liable for battery and that he'll have to pay her money at all. We're also seeing some Republicans begin to respond. They are mostly being kind of shifty and not necessarily taking a firm stance here.

3 (17m 52s):
Why was he found guilty of sexual abuse but not guilty of rape?

6 (17m 55s):
Yeah, so the distinction between sexual abuse and rape is kind of fuzzy. It's something that feminists have been increasingly arguing is sort of an archaic distinction. But in New York state, essentially sexual assault is an unwanted sexual act that is performed without the consent of one party. And rape is specifically sexual intercourse that is performed. Let me get the wording completely correct for this, because it is a finicky little legal definition. Okay? Yes. In New York state, rape is sexual intercourse that is performed under forcible compulsion.

6 (18m 39s):
So it's just a slightly more parsimonious definition. We don't know if a juror had difficulty with the specificity of sexual intercourse as opposed to any sex act, or whether they didn't necessarily see forcible compulsion. But that is the distinction that is being drawn there, and that is where the jury came down. And

3 (19m 0s):
Why was he found liable? Instead of being found guilty, Trump

6 (19m 3s):
Has found liable instead of guilty because this is a civil case. So that means that it doesn't come with the threat of jail time. It means that rather than having to prove a case beyond a reasonable doubt, you only have to prove something to a preponderance of evidence. There's a lower barrier for entry, essentially in civil court, and as a result, the potential penalties are much lower.

3 (19m 27s):
Okay. Okay. We don't know anything about the jury in this case, do we?

6 (19m 30s):
No. The jury was six men and three women.

3 (19m 33s):
There are six men on the jury, and they still found him liable of sexual abuse. That seems significant to me. Am I being crazy?

6 (19m 39s):
No, I think you're not wrong to think that that's significant. You know, it's hard to know always how these verdicts will split. I do think that the fact that Trump did get a liability verdict here is a sign of the influence of me too on our larger social system. I think that the conversations that we had over the course of that movement being really, really important and amplified in public discourse really did change how literate a lot of people are about what a woman's response to sexual assault might look like, why she might not scream, and why it might take her years to come forward.

6 (20m 20s):
What I think this verdict does is it takes away this kind of fig leaf of plausible deniability that Trump is not a sexual predator, right? It's no longer possible for people to say, you know, oh, that's all rumors. It hasn't ever been investigated in a courtroom. That tape was just locker room talk. That's not to say that like everyone's gonna be convinced by this verdict, right? I think there are definitely Trump supporters who are going to find a way to keep believing that he's innocent here, kind of the same way that they found a way to keep believing that he won an election when he hadn't. But I think a useful comparison here might be to Tucker Carlson, right? So Tucker Carlson was recently fired from Fox News, even though he was hugely powerful and influential there because they were worried about a racist text message he had sent coming to light.

6 (21m 10s):
And what was kinda interesting in that case is what Tucker Carlson says in the text is not actually that much more racist than most of the things that he heavily implied on his show while it was on the air like all the time. But the text took away this plausible deniability, this fig leaf that Tucker Carlson and his supporters were using to pretend that they couldn't even see race, right? That really they were colorblind. So I think it's possible that this verdict of liability can take that same fig leaf away from Trump. It makes it much harder for people to pretend to believe in his innocence.

6 (21m 49s):
And

3 (21m 50s):
You've said it, it likely won't hurt him with his base, but this is a man who plans on running for president in 2024. The Republican voters who matter, I would think are the Republican voters who lean independent, the voters, the Republicans who didn't want Trump for president in 2020. This would seem to be another nail in the coffin.

6 (22m 7s):
Yeah, I think that this is gonna be really, really hard to weigh out the consequences for Trump politically, in part because we're so far away still from the general election. But one thing that we do know is that while Trump was in office, 61% of voters in one poll said that if he were proven to have engaged in sexual harassment, then he should be impeached and removed from office. So that does suggest that there are a lot of people who are pretty worried about the idea that Trump may be a sexual predator, and now that he's been found liable for having engaged in sexual assault, which is a much stronger term that may be changing their minds.

6 (22m 55s):
On the other hand, the fact that he hasn't been in office for a number of years may have softened people's memories of what the Trump years were like. I think it's really, really hard to know at this point, and we won't have a clear sense of how this has affected Trump until the numbers start to come in.

3 (23m 16s):
What does this case tell us about how sexual assault and rape are treated in courts?

6 (23m 21s):
I think that this case makes a good portrait of how we are continuously finding our legal system not very effective at dealing with sexual assault, and specifically the way people tend to feel about sexual assault. You know, it's really very common for people like Eugene Carroll to look at the way that we treat survivors, the way that we treat women who come forward with accusations of sexual violence against powerful men and say, no, I don't wanna put myself through that. That looks terrible. And then maybe a few years later, they might see that their attacker has gone on to get more power, that he has maybe continued to attack other women in the same way that he has attacked them.

6 (24m 14s):
And they might say, oh, actually, I do wanna come forward. I do think that it's my responsibility in a way to, to make a statement now to see if I can stop this person. And if they do make that choice, our legal system is really not set up to allow them to do that. Something like the Adult Survivors Act, which is what Eugene Carroll used to sue Trump. That's really, really a stop gap. It's a one time, one year window that is not going to be any help to anyone after November of this year. So I think that this trial is a demonstration of the ways that our court system is not set up for the emotional reality of how people tend to respond to sexual violence and is a demonstration of the ways that we know that our court system is not really set up for this and the inadequacy of our current attempts to fix it.

3 (25m 20s):
That was Constance Grady. You can find her writing about this case and so much more@vox.com. Today's episode was produced by S Petros and Aha Artsy. It was edited by Matthew Collette and fact checked by Laura Bullard with some help from Amanda Lou Ellen and Amina El Saddi. It was engineered by Michael Rayfield. I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.