1 (12s):
Andrea Bernstein co-host of the Trump ink podcast from WNYC and propublica on Friday night the Supreme Court announced it would hear not one not two but three cases on the president's tax returns. What are these three cases? So there are two cases that stem from congressional subpoenas that Trump sued. So as not to have his tax returns turned over and those are trumpy maze ours and Trump be tortured. Yes, and the third case is the Manhattan district attorney and this case arises from an investigation into Trump's business that came from the Stormy Daniels case a piece of it got sent to the Manhattan DA's them and had indeed a began investigating requested Trump's tax returns.

1 (1m 2s):
And at that point Trump sued the da so that's the third case Trump be Vance and I guess this Story begins during the 2016 campaign when candidate Trump breaks. With tradition and refuses to release his tax returns. How rich is this tradition of sharing your financial information every president in modern history has released his tax return to the public remind us why because it's important for people to understand whether the president is acting in his or her own interests or in the country's interests. The founders were so concerned about political corruption and they felt that corruption could be as Big a threat as a foreign army that it could corrupt the Democracy from within so they put in all kinds of measures to Bar political leaders from even the temptation of doing something wrong and the release of the tax returns is in that tradition that it's sort of it's a check.

1 (2m 3s):
It's a control on having somebody who might be acting for a personal interest and not for the country's interest. So what's the argument the President Trump makes in Any 16 for not releasing them, he gives a bunch of reasons. He says my business is so complicated. It's under audit. I'll release it after its audited.

3 (2m 23s):
But if I were finished with the audit, I would have an open mind to it. I would say that but I don't want to do it during the audit and and really no lawyer even from the other side. They say often not always but when you're under audit, you don't have you don't subject it to that you get it done and then you release

1 (2m 41s):
it. And just to be clear here candidate Clinton releases, her tax returns and candidate Trump does not during the race, correct, then once he's elected president and hasn't really assist tax returns. The argument is that oh, well the people voted for me and so obviously they approve of my decision not to release my tax returns. So as president, he's got a republican house a republican-controlled senate does the taxes issue kind of just go away for two years. Well, it kind of does Does because there's no one to make him?

3 (3m 14s):
We can now officially project that the Democrats will take control of the house. This is a very significant defeat for mr. Trump a historic accomplishment for the Democrats Democrats getting subpoena power the ability to investigate the president and 2018 elections Democrats take over in the house and they make very clear that one of the things they want to do is oversight so they start doing Stations round about the

1 (3m 47s):
spring three committees

3 (3m 49s):
start filing subpoenas for President Trump's Financial records from in one case his accountants and in another case his bankers and they go to court they request these subpoenas and almost immediately Trump brings in a team of lawyers and says, no you cannot have these because you don't have a valid inquiry and also you are trying to provide a law enforcement function. You're not allowed to do that's how to of the cases get two federal judges in New York and in the District of Columbia and then once they're in those courts, they start working their way through and Trump starts losing. He loses at the federal court level.

3 (4m 30s):
He loses at the circuit level and that's how the case gets to the Supreme

1 (4m 34s):
Court. Okay. Well, let's go through each of these cases one by one there to that originate from congressional investigations. The first is Trump V maze ours. What's the story there? So in this case the house is trying to get Trump's tax returns from his accountants and the accountant seemed inclined to cooperate until the Trump family business intervened and said that couldn't happen that there. Were various problems including what they argued was a separation of powers and there was an argument in federal court and Trump lost that case and lost it very quickly and almost simultaneously the same house lawyers and the same Trump lawyers were in a courtroom in New York arguing the Deutsche Bank case.

1 (5m 30s):
Okay, and this is the second case the Supreme Court will hear what's the situation in the Trump V Deutsche Bank case? In this case the house is looking at whether there was foreign influence in elections and whether there was some money laundering through banks and through business relationships that the Trump's might have had so they're saying we need to see the records and among the records. It's seeking from Deutsche Bank are Trump's tax returns. Now in the Deutsche Bank case, the judge said at the end of the oral arguments to the Trump's you don't have a case. You are wrong. There is nothing that bars these records from being turned over.

1 (6m 12s):
Hmm at which point the Trump's immediately appealed. So the decision in those two cases those two Congressional cases, they've really attract each other. They've been very close. The rulings have been similar first. There was a federal judge that said no you're wrong because the Trump's then the district court said no you're wrong. So he loses the Deutsche Bank case at the district level. And at the circuit level and he loses the maze ours case at the district level and the second circuit level and each time. He loses these cases. These are not namby-pamby decisions. The judges are saying the president is not King.

1 (6m 55s):
That was an actual line indecision Congressional inquiries are legitimate. So these are very strongly worded decisions. Okay. So two of these Supreme Court cases originated On the house and they both tried to get the president's Financial records in different ways one going through the president's accountants and one going through his bank. What about the third case that originated with the Manhattan da Trump V Vance? The third case is interesting because in the first two cases Trump's lawyers argued Congress is violating its constitutionally authorized Powers because it is trying to do Ooh, what a prosecutor would do.

1 (7m 39s):
The Vance case is so interesting because it's in fact a prosecutor so they cannot be making that argument. So they are making a different argument and the argument that they are making is that a president has absolute immunity from investigation even not even prosecution just investigation so long as he or she is a sitting president which has enormous implications. Which did come out in the arguments in the second Circuit Court of Appeals. When one of the judges as Trump's lawyer, he said what about the Fifth Avenue example and what he's talking about is the president's comment that he could shoot somebody on Fifth Avenue and no one would complain.

3 (8m 21s):
What's your view on the The Fifth Avenue example local authorities couldn't investigate they couldn't do anything about it. I think once the a president is removed from office Bill any local Authority? This is not a permanent immunity. Well, I'm talking about while in office. No, nothing could be done. That's your position. That is

1 (8m 41s):
correct. And what the judge is saying is are you saying if the president shot someone on Fifth Avenue, he would be immune from investigation and the Trump's lawyers answer was yes so long as he's a sitting president. Wow. I'm glad that's all settled. So does the president have this kind of immunity? That's what we're going to find out. So what's interesting about this case and what's a little confusing because none of these decisions have been at all ambiguous end there is agreement. So there's agreement at the district level and there's agreement at the federal court level and they're very very strong.

1 (9m 22s):
It's not necessarily the kind of thing that would go to the US Supreme Court because all of the judges all of the judges have looked at it except for one dissenting judge in DC has I've said the president does not have these kind of powers Congress is allowed to do investigations. And one of the cases that has come up a lot is the Nixon case in which Nixon was ordered to turn over his Infamous tapes and that case keeps being cited as does the Bill Clinton case in which he was also required to turn over records and submit to questioning from Congress. Is that Clinton V Jones the discontent Vee Jones. So when you go to these arguments that's those are the cases they're talking.

1 (10m 3s):
And what they keep saying is this is settled the Supreme Court has ruled they've said that Congress has a legitimate ability to do investigations. And in the case of the Manhattan da they've said there is just no precedent for a federal court judge telling a local DEA. He cannot so much as conduct an investigation because the consequences of that and if you think it through what it means is you can never prosecute a president for anything that he does while he's president. And in many cases as the da pointed out in his arguments there are statutes of limitations, which means that for example, if Trump were to be re-elected in order to serve eight years many of these cases.

1 (10m 46s):
If not, all of them many of these alleged or possible crimes would no longer be prosecutable because they would have exceeded the statute of limitations if the federal courts are all on the same page here and the Supreme It has already weighed in on these kinds of questions of presidential immunity with Nixon and Clinton. Why is it taking up these three cases in March? So I don't think we're going to know until we hear the arguments, but obviously they wouldn't take it if there wasn't significant debate on the court and there wasn't somebody who was thinking maybe Congress should not be allowed to do this.

1 (11m 27s):
Maybe the da should not to be allowed to do this and there may be five justices on the Supreme Court who I think Congress should not have the powers to investigate the president. So if the Supreme Court decides that there isn't that you can't inquire president for his, you know, tax returns for his private banking information. What does that mean for presidents going forward?

3 (11m 52s):
I think it means that there will certainly be

1 (11m 55s):
future presidents who won't release that information and it will be a blow to a half centuries worth of Transparency and disclosure rules that were built in the wake of Watergate to prevent abuses of power. Let's just look at the case of President Trump and what we know about President Trump, which is each time. He gets away with not disclosing information. He gets Bolder

3 (12m 22s):
the next time he's asked

1 (12m 24s):
so all I can imagine is that it would be a even worse in terms of transparency getting information getting disclosure. We also know he's a very transactional president. It's not outside the realm of possibility that there is something on those tax returns that would tell the American people a story about the interest acting on the That they don't understand now. And how about if the Supreme Court rules? With the lower courts in all three of these cases and they say yes Congress has a right to investigate. Yes, the Manhattan district attorney has a right to investigate will the president release his tax returns.

1 (13m 7s):
Will he be compelled by the law to do so at long last? I mean if the Supreme Court rules he has to turn over his tax returns or that his suits have no validity and the parties in this case may czars and Deutsche Bank after turnover the tax returns then Would have to be turned over now that doesn't automatically mean they're publicly released. But I imagine they would become public at some point. I just something about the way the president conducts himself makes me feel like he'd find a way to circumvent releasing his tax returns. Even if the Supreme Court said he had to well the Supreme Court is the final Authority. So that's you know, he's pushing it as far as he can and he has you know so far.

1 (13m 53s):
He pushed on Open Door. He's getting his hearing and he had he's getting what he wants even though. They were rulings against him, even though he's losing and every Court he's managing to get stays and to delay any process of disclosure. I'm going to keep pressing this question Andrea because I just do not have faith that he would care that the Supreme Court ruled against him. Do you think he could find a way to not release them and then be prosecuted for it once he was out of office potentially and then get pardoned for it eventually. subsequent president I don't know. There are still some termite. The point of my question is there are still scenarios in which he could not release them, right, you know, I suppose so, but we certainly have not hit such a point.

1 (14m 38s):
Let's just let's just take a just make a wager right now. Andrea Birds dad. What do you say? We live in strange times. So there are many things that I think could never happen. I didn't think a lawyer for the president with stand up in a court and say the president could shoot somebody at fed on Fifth Avenue and not be investigated for it. So long as he's a sitting president so that but that happened. However, I have no framework for

3 (15m 2s):
understanding a Supreme Court decision that is not followed. So we might have to use

1 (15m 9s):
this word that we use all the time when we talk about Donald Trump on our podcast, which is

3 (15m 14s):
Unprecedented.

1 (15m 16s):
We're so far beyond precedent here,

3 (15m 19s):
and there is no mechanism in our democracy for a president to not heed the ruling of a Supreme Court case. So we'll have to see if he figures one out. I don't know what to tell you.

1 (15m 41s):
Andrea Bernstein is one of the hosts of the Trump ink podcast. She's also the author of The forthcoming Book American oligarchs. The kushner's the Trump's and the marriage of money and power. It comes out in January the Supreme Court cases drop in March. I'm Sean rottenness firm. This is today

3 (16m 1s):
explained.