0 (1s):
I came into office at a time of great economic and international instability.

1 (7s):
Liz Trust did.

0 (9s):
Families and businesses were worried about how to pay their bills.

1 (13s):
They all were. But the UK Prime Minister then made her own contribution to the instability by Jimmying with the country's economy, instituting tax cuts for the richest people with NAIA plan to pay for them. Her 45 days in office were so tumultuous that people began to predict the end. At the beginning, a British tabloid, the Daily Star, purchased ahead of lettuce, set up a live video of the lettuce, and asked, Will Liz trust outlast this lettuce? This lettuce outlasted Liz Truss. The live feed now says, Coming up on today, explained,

0 (48s):
I am resigning as leader of the Conservative Party.

1 (1m 3s):
It's today explained Tom Ttag, the Atlantics man in London. What the hell has been happening in the United Kingdom?

3 (1m 11s):
Well, nobody knows here. You know, we're all watching it. I'm sat here watching it with my wife and just utter sort of, we're both completely perplexed at what's happening. We've never seen anything like it. This is the shortest running premiership in, in history. The last prime Minister who came anywhere near this, died in office, and she doesn't have that excuse. This is a terrible moment for the country. This trust replaced Boris Johnson as Prime Minister after a protracted conservative party leadership contest over the summer, promising, sweeping, kind of reaganite tax cuts to boost the British economy.

0 (1m 51s):
I know that our beliefs resonate with the British people, our beliefs in freedom, in the ability to control your own life in low taxes, in personal responsibility.

3 (2m 5s):
So she comes in with this top thumping tax cutting agenda. She introduces it a couple of weeks after she becomes Prime Minister. She couldn't do anything for the first 10 days because the Queen died almost immediately after she became Prime Minister. So as soon as she comes out of that period of morning, she introduces these tax cuts and then all hell breaks loose.

4 (2m 25s):
Early this morning, ahead of the chancellor's statement, the pound was already falling against the dollar based on what the markets knew was coming. As the chancellor delivered his statement with surprise, extra tax cuts funded by borrowing the pound fell even more.

3 (2m 39s):
The financial markets go to meltdown. Interest rates go through the roof. People's mortgages start spiraling out of control. Anger starts going everywhere.

5 (2m 48s):
I'm gonna just be Blaise on into the questions lots from my listeners this morning. Carrie and Beton says, What's on earth? Were you thinking the country was already in a state of recession? And another says, How can we ever trust the conservatives with our economy again? And Lydia says, Are you ashamed of what you've done? Are

3 (3m 6s):
You and conservative mps eventually just say enough and you have to go? And that's what's happened today.

1 (3m 16s):
I was in the UK when she first announced the tax cuts, and my friends there were freaking out about their mortgages. They were glued to the bbc. And Liz was like, We're doing this. And then two-ish weeks later, she reversed herself and was like, Oh, actually this is not gonna work. It was very embarrassing. Why didn't she know any better?

3 (3m 35s):
That's what what she was elected to do. Right? You know, and, and also I think it's a bit of a moment for Britain. This, you know, Britain isn't the kind of country where this thing is supposed to happen, where the markets can get rid of a prime minister. You know, we're supposed to be be stronger than that. You know, you can do such tax cutting agendas because ultimately everyone knows Britain will pay its way. Britain will pay back its money. But for, for whatever reason, we've got to a state where that is not necessarily the case. And the markets began panicking that these plans were so wild, they weren't up to scratch. They didn't, they didn't meet the sort of necessary criteria. They were just ridiculous. On

6 (4m 14s):
Wednesday, the leader of the opposition pay did a bleak picture.

7 (4m 17s):
The Taurus went on a borrowing spree, sending mortgage rates through the roof. They are skyrocketing by 500 pounds a month. And for nearly 2 million homeowners, their fixed rate deals are coming to an end next year. They're worried sick and everybody in this house knows it. They won't forgive. They won't

1 (4m 38s):
Ask you about Liz Truss. Who, who is this woman?

3 (4m 45s):
Well, we've barely got to know her here, to be honest.

1 (4m 47s):
Six weeks

3 (4m 48s):
For six weeks. Can you believe it? You know, we are going through Prime Ministers like, like Donald Trump went through advisors, right? That's what, that's what's happening here. You can't get rid of the president in the way that we can get rid of Prime Ministers if they're not up to scratch. We just get rid of them. It just doesn't usually happen this quickly. So she was the foreign secretary under Boris Johnson, and the way that she got the top job is that she didn't plunge the knife into Boris in the way that her rivals for the Tory leadership did. She kind of held on and stayed loyal.

0 (5m 20s):
Boris, you got Brexit done, you crushed Jeremy Corbin, you rolled out the vaccine and you stood up to Vladimir Putin. You were admired from Kiev to coil.

3 (5m 34s):
Her background is really interesting. She did start off as a conservative at all, actually. She started as a liberal, a lib d a liberal Democrat as we is the sort of third party in Britain. And she was from the libertarian wing of the lib Ds. She wanted to abolish the monarchy cut taxes. She's real sort of reaganite libertarian. And then she moves over to the conservative party, and that's the agenda she's pursuing here, which is actually very, very different to the kind of more Trumpian Brexit, which is more about, it appeals more to the working classes. It's less libertarian, it's more socially conservative. And that's not her at all.

1 (6m 13s):
All right, So she comes into office after Boris Johnson, and an enormous scandal and quite an embarrassing one. Was there support for her? Did people think All right, at the very least, Liz Truss is gonna calm things down? Well,

3 (6m 28s):
People thought that getting rid of Boris Johnson would calm things down, you know, in, in a way, the country seemed to have been sucked into Johnson's chaotic life, you know, where everything is slightly mad, but it's all quite petty in a way. You know, we're talking about scandals of parties in Downing Street

4 (6m 47s):
In a series of photos. Eight people are visible without counting the photographer. Indoor gatherings were limited to two people at the time, during the second national lockdown.

3 (6m 57s):
We weren't talking about economic Armageddon, you know, or catastrophes like that. When you look back at it now, it felt so small, but it was chaotic. And, and what she offered was kind of, well, what she promised in a way was Johnson is without all of that chaos, you know, it was our carry on the Johnson, the the Johnson agenda. I'll be positive about Britain's ambitions and what we can do in life, and we'll get, you know, we'll get through this. We'll beat the Doomsters and the Gloo stores, and we will, we'll prove them all wrong. But she was far more radical than Johnson. You know, Johnson actually raised taxes. She promised to cut them. Johnson wanted to rebalance the British economy away from the southeast.

3 (7m 40s):
She came in and she slashed the limits on banker's bonuses, which would help the people in the southeast of England, which is already do, you know, doing so well. Although she had this promise of being Johnson without the chaos, she was actually very, very different.

1 (7m 53s):
So Liz Trust takes office and she says, essentially, I'm gonna do trickle down economics. Everybody starts talking about Ronald Reagan again. Woo. It's awesome. I guess the question is why, what was going on in the country more broadly that made this new Prime Minister say, I am gonna take dramatic and very risky steps with this country's economy. Why, why didn't she just come in easy, look around a bit and, and then start making decisions?

3 (8m 19s):
I think for a number of reasons. First of all, Britain has been growing at a lot slower rate than usual ever, really, ever since the 2008 financial crisis. You know, you've gotta think of Britain as a much smaller country than the United States, where we're much more heavily dominated by financial services. You know, we're a kind of, you know, New York state without all the rest of the country. You know, we rely on the city of London, you know, our version of Wall Street as a great engine of the British economy, which is then provides the tax revenue for the, the government to redistribute in social and public services.

3 (8m 59s):
You know, that exploded in 2008, required the government to bail out the banks, just like in the us. Yeah, we had to bail them out. And we, and we've been living with the consequences ever since. So you have that in the background, and I think you have to always think of that when you think of all of the, of the things that came next, the austerity Brexit later, you know, there was a general sense of malaise in the country, you know, a frustration with how things are going. And then you have Brexit. Now Brexit then I think to some extent, makes things harder. You know, you've taken yourself out of this giant European market, so you have trade friction on top of what would've ordinarily been, you know, difficult circumstances anyway.

3 (9m 47s):
So you've got these two things. So you have to start doing something different. You have to try something new because actually the economy's not doing very well, and it hasn't been doing very well for a long time. So there was a, there was a certain legitimacy to her analysis at least to say, Look, we need to do something differently. If we're going to achieve different results, we can't just carry on doing what we've always been doing. And in the end, I think all of that pressure together force this radical prime minister to take one gamble too many, and it blew up in her face.

1 (10m 25s):
It's early here as we speak. Tom, you've got, you've got a couple hours on me. How did she resign? What happened over there? Well,

3 (10m 34s):
We had a completely chaotic day in Parliament yesterday where you, you just had sort of open rebellion and, and inter-party warfare within the conservative party over various issues, complicated votes in the House of Commons, where Tory mps were just saying, no. So this, I'm not voting with her. We can't go on like this. This is absurd.

8 (10m 57s):
This whole affair is inexcusable. It, it is just, it is a pitiful reflection on the conservative parliamentary party at every

3 (11m 6s):
Level. Overnight you had more chaos. And then this morning you had a guy called Gray and Brady, who is like a kind of conservative party, big wig. To get rid of a conservative leader, you have to put in letters of no confidence, and you put them into this guy, Gray and Brady. And once it got to a certain level, you know, essentially more than half the party had put in these letters of no confidence. He then has the job of going to number 10, Downing Street and saying to the Prime Minister, I'm sorry, Prime Minister, it's time to go.

9 (11m 37s):
Oof. Number 10 have confirmed that Liz Truss is meeting Gray and Brady number 10 have confirmed that this is at Liz Truss's request.

3 (11m 47s):
The brutal thing about British politics is that there's really only one rule on which everything rests. And that is you have to command a majority of the House of Commons. If you cannot do that, you're done. You're gone. That's the whole point. If you can command a majority, then you are the Prime minister. Now, she got to a point where she couldn't command a majority of her own mps, and you know, therefore she, she can't command a majority of the House of Commons itself. She just doesn't, she doesn't have a majority. She's got no power. So she had to resign.

0 (12m 25s):
I have therefore spoken to his Majesty the King, to notify him that I am resigning as leader of the Conservative Party.

10 (12m 37s):
I'm an anti I'm coaster. Don't know what I, but I get it. I want a right.

0 (13m 4s):
We import two-thirds of our cheese. That is a disgrace.

1 (13m 14s):
It's today explained. We're back with Tom Ttag. He is London correspondent for the Atlantic Magazine. Tom Liz Truss is out. Does the United Kingdom have a Prime Minister right at this moment?

3 (13m 28s):
Yes, we currently have a Prime Minister. She's still Liz Truss. So she's resigned as conservative party leader rather than Prime Minister. She'll remain in post, you know, with a finger on the nuclear button and all of that kind of stuff until the conservative party choose a replacement. And how she said that that will happen in this super speeded up timeframe of a week. So what you're now gonna see is all of the conservative mps trying to figure out who is going to emerge from their number to become her replacement.

1 (13m 58s):
Let's talk about who's on deck.

3 (14m 2s):
So you've got the man that she beat in the Conservative party leadership contest over the summer, which is a guy called Rishi Sunk.

11 (14m 10s):
I'm taking my ideas around the country. I'm talking to all of you, our members across the country about what I think's best for our country at a really difficult time.

3 (14m 18s):
Now, this guy was Boris Johnson's finance minister, he's chancellor. He sort of steered the country through the pandemic. He was seen as a, a very effective politician, a very good communicator, competent guy. Now, as part of his job, he raised taxes to pay for lots of different things, more money to old age care, to the health service, and to deal with the enormous costs of the pandemic itself. So he really lost that conservative leadership contest because he defended that record of tax rises and didn't promise big tax cuts.

3 (15m 1s):
He, he said, Look, he was a tax cutting guy by inclination, he's a conservative, he supported Brexit, but he thought that it was the wrong time to do it. You could, you would spook the markets. So he's got a lot of credibility in that sense in that he predicted what actually happened and said he wouldn't do it.

11 (15m 19s):
So I don't think the responsible thing to do right now is launch into some unfunded spree of borrowing and more debt that will just make inflation worse. It will make the problem longer.

3 (15m 31s):
And therefore he, he lost the election, but he kind of won the argument, I guess. So he's kept his power to try. He's not said anything during this whole crisis. So he is one standout potential. We've also got a Gared Jeremy Hunt, who's the current chancellor who came in and reversed everything this trust promised and, and became this dominant figure overnight,

12 (15m 55s):
Although the Prime Minister and I are both committed to cutting corporation tax on Friday. She listened to concerns about the mini budget and confirmed we will not proceed with a cut to corporation tax announced.

3 (16m 8s):
So there's him, and then there's another candidate from the election called Penny Mor.

13 (16m 13s):
And all we know right now is, unless she tells us otherwise, that the Prime Minister is cowering under her desk and asking for it all to go away.

3 (16m 21s):
If she won, she'd become Britain's fourth female Prime minister, all of them conservatives, interestingly enough, from Margaret Thatcha through to Theresa May, Liz Trust. So that, again, would be an interesting choice. She's more of a centrist, Tory, she's still fairly conservative, but she's not really linked to one section of the party or the other. She might win as a kind of unity candidate, somebody who could bring all the different wings of the Tory party together in an attempt not to get annihilated at the next election. So they're, they're really the candidates at the moment. But of course, you know, this is crazy. This is a one week, you know, shootout. The person who's left holding the gun is, is going to be Prime Minister, which isn't a bad thing, is it?

3 (17m 3s):
If, if you went to that competition now,

1 (17m 8s):
Hey, Tom, forgive me if I, I missed a nuance or a wrinkle, but do British people vote on this?

3 (17m 14s):
Yeah, no, no, we don't. So, so, Oh, wow. Yeah. So actually Liz Truss is a rare prime minister in never having faced an election as Prime Minister, but usually they do. But it's a parliamentary system. So what happens is you elect a parliament, you know, like, you know, your House of Representatives or Senate and Mitch McConnell or whoever emerges as the leader of the majority, you know, in that house, they become Prime Minister, right? That's how, that's how it works. But the difference between our system and your system is that in between the elections, So the elections happen every four to five years for the House of Commons.

3 (17m 59s):
It's not set like yours. It can't go longer than five. But if you were to elect a parliament like we did in 2019, for instance, with Boris Johnson as leader of the Conservative Party, he emerges as Prime Minister, you can get rid of him as we did after three years. And there's another two years to run of the Parliament, but somebody else can come and replace him. They don't need to go for an election until the end of the parliament. So Liz Trust in theory, had until January, 2025 before she had to seek an election. And the same will be true in theory of this replacement.

1 (18m 37s):
Hey, of all those names that you mentioned, there was one you left out on this side of the Atlantic. We're reading that some of you in the UK want Boris Johnson back. Is that true?

3 (18m 48s):
So yeah, I should have included him. Really. Your

14 (18m 50s):
Petition launched by the website, conservative post to return, Boris Johnson to number 10 has received a 10,000 signatures. Yep.

3 (18m 59s):
Of course, he only left six weeks ago. Look, I think right now it's unlikely he's on holiday in the Caribbean. Would you believe He'd have to come back and, and throw his name in the ring? I'm sure he is tempted. The argument for Boris Johnson is a little bit like the argument for an election, right? He won a huge majority in 2019 on a manifesto to deliver certain things taking Britain out the European Union, rebalancing the country so that poorer parts of the country did better, that than they're currently doing. All of these kind of promises that he made, there are some people in the Conservative party who say, Look, he was dumped unfairly and he had a, a mandate from the public to deliver his manifesto.

3 (19m 50s):
He should have been allowed to see that through for the five years. And then if he was gonna be rejected, he should have been rejected by the country in an election rather than by his party in Parliament. Now, most Tory mps that I speak to say, Look, there might be truth in that argument, but he just proved on fit personally for office, his policies were kind of fine, and they were, you know, for the conservative party, but he just was too reckless personally in office. He didn't pay enough attention to the rules. His behavior was unbecoming. And that's the reason he can't do it.

1 (20m 31s):
Tom, what do you think this all says about the UK's place in the world? This is a powerful country that today looks really, really, really messy and even a bit immature.

3 (20m 43s):
Yeah, well, I mean, I think they would be fair conclusions. You know, a lot of people in Britain feel a bit embarrassed or not, just a bit embarrassed, but very embarrassed about what's going on. You know, the front page of the Economist today, slightly controversially, has Blizz trust mocked up as an Italian, and it's kind of saying that Britain is Britt, we're turning into Italy, but without the good weather and the good food. So look, I think there is some truth in that. Other people are more pessimistic and say, Well, actually, the, the really worrying scenario is being like Argentina. You know, a kind of country that was at the turn of the 20th century was as wealthy as the United States. You know, it was a place where people from Europe went to just like they went to Chicago or Washington, they went to Bueno airs.

3 (21m 25s):
Obviously, that doesn't happen now because Argentina is a very, an incredibly poor country that has been gripped by terrible politics, terrible economics, constant crises from which it just doesn't seem capable of escaping. So that is that kind of doomsday pessimistic scenario. I mean, I, I don't share that. I think it's, so some ways the Constitution here works in that if people aren't up to the job, Boris Johnson all is trust. They get kicked out pretty brutally, and they get, hopefully at some point replaced by somebody competent. But, you know, right now it looks like the game is up for the tos. They just, you know, they're just despised at the moment in the country because nobody accepts getting poorer, you know, for a long time.

3 (22m 10s):
And they've just made people poorer. But this is only a week in a week's time, it looks like we're going to have a new prime minister who will come in. Look, generally, there's nobody who's questioning Britain's foreign policy support for Ukraine, the special relationship with the us, any of that. I think to some extent what we're seeing is like the churn under the water. You know, when a, when a swan is gliding over the surface, we've inverted that. All we can see right now is the legs spinning furiously underneath. But to some degree, the swan's just still on top, Not very moving very fast, but nothing's actually fundamentally changed.

1 (22m 58s):
Today's show was produced by Miles Bryan and Avish, I artsy. It was edited by Matthew Colette and engineered by Paul Robert Mosey. Fact checking was a team effort led by Laura Bullard. Thanks to all, I'm Noel King, it's today explained.

2 (23m 13s):
Another ones the.