2 (1s):
Support for the shuttle a comes from million bazillion. I know what you're thinking. That sounds like a lot of fun. What is that? Well, it's a podcast it's from Marketplace and brains on it's for kids and their families. It's all about money how it works how we use it where it comes from and how we could all get a little bit smarter about it. But in a fun way million bazillion helping dollars make more sense. You see what they did there. Listen And subscribe wherever you get your podcasts. All right, everyone people as the media critic at the Washington Post. Can you describe Tucker Carlson for me in one word?

2 (42s):
I would describe Tucker Carlson with one word as mendacious. And if you had another word intelligent rule of three one last word and ruthless mendacious

3 (55s):
intelligent ruthless.

2 (59s):
What if I gave you a few words what space does Tucker Carlson occupy? In in the American imagination right now. I believe he is viewed among Trump supporters as a truth teller really tells it like it is

1 (1m 16s):
this is America. We're allowed to disagree with what our leaders do. However we like and we're allowed to express that disagreement in public. That's our Birthright

2 (1m 25s):
has no allies in Washington. He's a guy who grew up with the ruling class, you know in San Diego and Georgetown but has grown to despise them and is one of the few people whose willing to call them out for the hypocrisy and for their hollowness and for their fecklessness,

1 (1m 46s):
we are ruled by mercenaries who feel no long-term obligation to the people. They rule their day Traders substitute teachers. They're just passing through they can't solve our problems. They don't even bother to understand our problems and he has succeeded at

2 (2m 0s):
least with enough people to make his show In the second quarter of 2020 the highest-rated cable news show ever ever not just right now, but ever that is a record. It is a four-point 331 million viewers on average per night over the course of the second quarter of 2020 and of course that covered coronavirus and that covered the George Floyd killing in police custody that Drew an enormous and righteous backlash

3 (2m 30s):
and protest movement.

1 (2m 42s):
Good evening. Welcome to Tucker Carlson tonight. Here's a funny thing that we noticed the other day

2 (2m 46s):
people debate. So how exactly does the highest-rated cable news show ever and its host Landon hot water a week or so ago. It's important to note that Tucker Carlson lives in hot water as they Fox News host. Okay, and what happened? here essentially was that CNN disclosed that the person who claimed to write every first draft of Tucker Carlson segments had been writing racist sexist homophobic remarks of the most vile sort on a website called Auto admitted and the comments from this person were so vile as to you know, not really be even Ball on my platform which is the Washington Post.

2 (3m 36s):
Here's an example. He

1 (3m 38s):
responded to a threat in which someone asked quote and this is really offensive. So just prepare yourself. Would you let a jet black congo n-word do Lasik eye surgery on you for 50% off to which Tucker Carlson's top right or responded. I would not get Lasik from an Asian for free. So

2 (3m 54s):
no there was also just the most sexist and misogynistic thread where this fellow posted information from a woman who follows him on. Book mocking her and exposing her to ridicule. You know, the thing that makes me wonder about this fellow. He's a Dartmouth graduate relatively young and obviously he has a platt had a platform on Tucker Carlson tonight in the sense that he wrote the first draft for all these segments those segments go out to millions of viewers and you know what we don't know for

1 (4m 27s):
sure if this writer had actually

2 (4m 29s):
written the monologues that the president has shared but Trump does share a lot of Tucker. His monologues guess he felt the compulsion to post all these comments sort of in their unvarnished form on this hate site. And you know, you got to wonder why what gives a person that sort of motivation. I don't have the answer to that but it's clear that you know on many people on Twitter basically said and this is kind of a cliche he was saying the quiet part out loud one of the comments that you uncovered black dudes staying inside. Side playing Call of Duty as probably one of the biggest factors keeping

1 (5m 8s):
crime down

2 (5m 10s):
from my analysis of Tucker Carlson show. This fellow was merely taking what he said on this hate site and sanding off the edges for presentation on Tucker Carlson

3 (5m 23s):
tonight.

2 (5m 28s):
so what is Fox News do once the the out loud part is revealed

1 (5m 34s):
Fox news media strongly condemns this horrific racist misogynistic and homophobic Behavior Neffs abhorrent conduct on this forum was never divulged to the show or the network until Friday at which point we swiftly accepted his resignation make no mistake actions such as his cannot and will not be tolerated at any time in Any part of our Workforce?

2 (5m 59s):
But then they let Tucker address this matter on Monday night and they slipped away.

1 (6m 5s):
We want to say a couple of things about this first what Blake wrote anonymously was wrong. We don't endorse those words. They have no connection to the show. It is wrong to attack people for qualities. They cannot control, you know, you never

2 (6m 19s):
even said what Fox News that which is that they are racist sexist and homophobic and then he lashed out at the people who had brought it. Light and who had been discussing it on social media, but we

1 (6m 32s):
should also point out to the ghouls now beating their chests and Triumph at the destruction of a young man that self-righteousness also has its costs. We are all human when we pretend. We Are Holy we are lying when we pose as blameless in order to hurt other people. We are committing the gravest sin of all and we will be punished for it. There's no question

2 (6m 54s):
and in my view what he showed more than anything was one. And he didn't really view this as a scandal to he has no respect for his audience because he cared not to inform them of what had happened and three he was utterly Unapologetic about the situation and it affirmed every single attack on Tucker show that has ever been made about his racism about the way that his show divides people and the hatred that runs from it. He called the detractors of Blake Nest ghouls. He attacked the People who are calling out the blatant bigot. Yes, but the point is that none of these people were in any way complicit with what this guy did.

2 (7m 40s):
In fact, I would venture that 99% of them had never heard of Auto admit before this story broke Auto of them. What the hell is that? Sounds like a portal for I don't know confessions. So Tucker calls out the detractors of his bigoted writer. He says I'm going to take a long planned vacation this week which sounds fishy

1 (8m 7s):
going to spend the next four days trout fishing. If something traumatic happens, of course, we'll be

2 (8m 13s):
back. What's the Fallout does his show suffer at all do advertisers pull out does anything happen? Well, I think this question about you know, sort of the consequences of all this For Tucker Carlson tonight is a really interesting and good question and it breaks down in a few different baskets. I mean advertisers including you know, like Disney and Papa John's lot of these name brand companies have said no more Tucker Carlson for us to the extent that it rests uncomfortably on my pillow, but It's not that big a problem for Fox News because every tizen represents not the majority of its Revenue that comes from subscriber fees and fox is ruthless about subscriber fees Fox negotiates a very high price with cable providers with cable Distributors for its content.

2 (9m 13s):
And that's the reason why it's scores more than a billion per year in profits. So Fox News is a money machine and It's able to stay in business. Despite the hate on Tucker Carlson in large part because controversies especially ones around race especially ones around immigration assist him in building his audience because what happens is he says something

1 (9m 37s):
like we have a moral obligation to admit the world's poor. They tell us even if it makes our own country poor and dirtier and more

2 (9m 44s):
divided which he said, I believe it was December 2018 or he says

1 (9m 49s):
white supremacy. That's the problem. This is a hoax and this may be a lot of things this moment we're living through but it is definitely not about black lives. And remember that when they come for you and at this rate they will

2 (10m 0s):
so you know, there is a backlash and Tucker thrives off of those backlashes and you produces them very frequently and I believe they are in some degree

3 (10m 12s):
calculated

2 (10m 15s):
and that is a dynamic that I believe that Roger Ailes Fox News Tucker Carlson, Sean Hannity want to wait Night, they want that explosive reaction among liberals that triggers their people and that motivates them to turn on the TV. And so I definitely believe that what happened last week with Tucker Carlson show with respect to Blake Neff is another episode that is going to fortify and amplify his

3 (10m 48s):
audience. Who are the

2 (10m 55s):
millions of people who eat it up who's watching? I've gone to a lot of these Fox News Concepts. Like they have Fox Nation, which is a streaming service and they love Tucker. My assumption is there are middle-aged to elderly white

1 (11m 12s):
people. That's

2 (11m 14s):
exactly what they are. They are. Very nice and they love Tucker I'm is not just like Tucker's okay. It's like Tucker is it and while the women find him attractive they think he's cute, especially since he dropped the bow tie. Yes, especially since he dropped the bow tie and so you can see why Fox News when faced with a crisis like this if they think that there's a PR problem with Tucker's hatred on are they would have another PR problem with their own base if they dump Tucker people would go

3 (11m 48s):
nuts.

2 (11m 55s):
more with Eric wimple after the

3 (11m 57s):
break

2 (12m 11s):
Support for the show today comes from notion notion is for people who are working from home. Are you still working from home? I'm still working from home. Most of us might still be working from home and notion has a way to make working from home easier. It's kind of like the Swiss army knife of productivity software. We all know that we got to be productive when we're working from home. Right? Right. Hope the bosses aren't listen to this any way. It combines note-taking to-do lists document sharing and syncing and Jake management to help you stay on task. I was just joking, but the bosses earlier like you can't not be productive when you do a daily podcast because you got to put out the podcast at the end of the day, right? So there's really no way around it. Anyway notion helps you organize all of the things that you're searching for.

2 (12m 53s):
It keeps all that stuff in a single centralized placed in it helps everyone in your team get on the same page every day. And right now you can get a 10% discount off of Team Planet notion head to notion.com. Plain that it's notion.com explain to get 10% off a team plan.

1 (13m 21s):
This is Advertiser content. Hey, this is Bo's. I'm a podcaster streamer gamer and I'm basically all over the Internet. So one of the things that I'm super interested in is how new technology affects our lives today with the help of Samsung Galaxy 5G. I'm looking at how technology can access let's get into it with. Dr. Jennifer gold bag. She's a professor at the University of Maryland studying how our online interactions affect their daily lives doctor. What do you see as the biggest promise of 5G but I think it's going to really open a new way of thinking about how do we share these real-world offline experiences that we're having now is 5G.

1 (14m 2s):
We're going to take this next Leap Forward. We're going to be able to do stuff that we couldn't think of with slower connections psychologically. How do you think that this affects us? Yeah. It's such a good question if things kind of get in the way of us doing what we're trying to do, it can be so frustrating because it builds up over the course of the day. Day, and so if we have seamless video If we don't have those little delays it's going to make us feel better. It's going to reduce that frustration that's going to make us nicer to everybody else. It's going to make us happier. Wow, it's seriously been so interesting talking to you today, and I have a million questions, but that's all the time that we have for Samsung and my guest. Dr. Jennifer gold back.

1 (14m 42s):
Thank you so much for joining us be one of the first to start enhancing Your World online and off with Galaxy 5G now available on Galaxy S. 25g and a 71 5G feels good to be first with Samsung.

2 (15m 3s):
Eric you spoke a little bit of Tucker Carlson's origin story. He grew up in San Diego DC a member of the ruling class. How does he get to be the host of the highest rated show in the history of cable news? Yeah. It's a really good question about how sort of Tucker got to where he is because it wasn't the straightest of lines. I mean Tucker got himself into journalism pretty quickly and wrote for the Weekly Standard. He was regarded in the 90s covering the Clinton, you know impeachment and the Clinton presidency always always a very silver-tongued commentator Tucker Carlson is a voracious reader, which is one of the reasons why I pointed out that he was intelligent to begin with.

2 (15m 51s):
It doesn't mean that he uses that intelligence towards good ends. I don't believe that he does but he's very well-read. I've listened to him in tons of podcast tons of speeches and he He uses that polemically he has always been motivated by the prospect of pummeling someone in rhetorical combat. And that is obviously the one of the things that he does on Tucker Carlson tonight. But anyway, he went from magazine journalism to punditry on cable news MSNBC. He had a CNN show Crossfire which was you know, of course the locus of that famous Ted.

2 (16m 32s):
Test with Jon

1 (16m 33s):
Stewart. How old are you 35 and you wear a bow tie? Yeah, those are not easy to time. But the different roles that this you're doing theater when you should be doing debate which would be great. If not, since it's not honest we don't do is hominis. What you do is perfect partisan hackery and I'll tell you why. I know it

2 (17m 2s):
does. That tete-a-tete with Jon Stewart result in basically the end of Crossfire. Yes, and this is the next sort of phase of Tucker Carlson, which is sort of the mid odds to like 29 2010 where he was sort of just casting about he was on CNN he then he was on MSNBC and he really wasn't nailing it. You know, he he's sort of lost his Mojo and he finally gets hired at Fox News. I believe it's 2009 or 2010, but he gets hired her.

1 (17m 32s):
Fox News to not such a

2 (17m 34s):
great gig, you know, he's like this commentator. He eventually does weekends Fox and Friends weekends. He's the sort of come on. He's the weekend Fox and Friends guy. He's not even a second banana at foxnews. He's like a fifth. Banana. Yeah. He's like a fifth banana Fox News and there's even a great clip of Tucker Carlson falling asleep on the set of Fox and Friends Weekend. I gotta look it up. I gotta look it up you go. It's amazing.

1 (17m 59s):
He's really Oh, no, I'm watching if he's literally just

2 (18m 4s):
swamped. Let's sleep on the chair and it's co-hosts are just laughing at

1 (18m 8s):
him. Oh, it's so unfair. Oh my gosh, and then he wakes up. Welcome to Fox and Friends. I know we're not on television. So don't bother me. No need to be embarrassed. Honestly. Why? Yeah in the 15 years this program. I don't think that's ever happened. Oh no. Oh that

2 (18m 26s):
is rough. Yeah, right. He is just bouncing around. He's not really Going anywhere but all the while he is doubling up. He's also editing the Daily Caller which by the way is a training ground for white nationalists or at least a holding pen for them and just sort of bumping along and then Tucker Carlson breaks into the Fox News Primetime just after Trump selection. And this is his big opportunity. You know, I have sources telling me he was just pacing the streets at night. Night thinking of a way to conceptualize this show that would work and what he did from the start was he get liberals on the show and he would just pound them and pound them anybody would do and I should know because I was one of them that he pounded

1 (19m 18s):
all this is Eric went. Well. He's a media reporter for the Washington Post and he joins us tonight Eric. Thanks all for coming on plus

2 (19m 25s):
so, how'd it go? It went awfully. I mean he just lied and he you know for his audience was Right, they still troll me about it and he just clobbered me with

1 (19m 34s):
falsehoods. How can you attack others when you don't know that your own paper makes money from taking propaganda from the Russian government? I wish you'd told me you wanted to talk about this but know those inserts are

2 (19m 44s):
interesting. I mean they are why didn't

1 (19m 47s):
you write about them? You know, I got a lot to write about but I you know, I am interested in that topic but it's your own tampons. I mean you kind of the India I should have been better

2 (19m 57s):
prepared for what he was doing, but I had no idea what he was going to. To do so you got you're going to get an honest interview. No, I didn't know I knew I wouldn't get Anonymous interview. I wasn't that naive but I didn't know exactly what falsehood he would foist upon the audience so I couldn't particularly counter it too. Well, but you know, that's my bad. You know, this was his thing

1 (20m 20s):
though. If I were to go to a rally and people said, I'm just pulling this out of thin air pigs in a blanket fry like bacon about police officers advocating the killing of cops. I mean you would say that's unacceptable. Not be allowed. Is that what you're saying? I'm saying is student group wants to have a discussion about police brutality use that phrase pigs in a blanket fry like bacon fest in the phrase. I'm not going to debate over this phrase should be allowed to have no principles. That's why because and that really helped him.

2 (20m 48s):
I believe establish an identity with Fox News viewers as the guy who was going to own the lives, you know as the guy who was just going to take a mallet to them

1 (20m 58s):
one of the biggest names in news. Sighs but now Bill O'Reilly is out of a job fired after troubling allegations Unearthed by investigative

2 (21m 7s):
journalist. So how do his fortunes continued to change when Bill O'Reilly gets me to doubt of Fox News, his ratings have increased and improved throughout that time and he does it simply by posing as this guy who is going to hold everybody accountable. Who is this Fearless, you know, sort of honest broker in the middle of it. All sorting through all the hypocracy that comes at you from both sides of the political Spectrum.

1 (21m 37s):
One of the reasons Progressive say they hate Donald Trump is because he lies a lot Donald Trump is a Salesman. He's a talker a boaster a booster a compulsive self-promoter at times. He's a full-blown BS artist. Most people know this it's obvious. So is lying really the reason the left despises Donald Trump or could the problem be as Is so often the case it's when he tells the truth. Truth is the real threat to their

2 (22m 6s):
power. What is he is he a pundit is the host. Is he a journalist. Is he a commentator? Is he a comedian? I would say that he's just a liar. But whenever you you know, say Tucker Carlson did this is wrong, by the way, you'll get all the supporters. Like he's an opinion host you idiot you loser and my response is that is Long as the bug in the corner of the screen says Fox News, he must be held to a journalistic standard of accountability. Hmm if they want to take Fox News off the screen and collet Tucker time, they can do that.

2 (22m 47s):
But as far as long as new studies on the screen, my my governing sort of standard is that they are working as journalists, and yes journalism encompasses opinion. And straight news. Okay. That's the way it works at the Washington Post the way it works at box. That's the way it works everywhere. But I think that they should be constrained by the facts. I think that opinion journalists must be constrained by facts and decency to and I think that in both of those cases Tucker Carlson runs afoul of those particular standards, I think the difference between what we do here at vaux and and what the post does in its opinion.

2 (23m 31s):
Columns is that we maybe don't have so much of an agenda a prevailing ideology that we're trying to advance. Whereas when you watch Tucker Carlson or a lot of the quote-unquote opinion programming on Fox News. There is clearly an agenda and that agenda as of late seems to be get Donald Trump re-elected at all costs. Yes. I think there's a difference between a political orientation or worldview. You and agenda-driven work and the thing about it is to bring it back to Tucker Carlson. He does this form of political agitprop this form of political propaganda more can only more saveliy than anybody else in right-wing

3 (24m 20s):
media.

2 (24m 23s):
He takes something that Donald Trump does he doesn't examine the depravity of what? Trump did he doesn't say, you know, this is absolutely insane, which it clearly is on his face and I can give you millions of examples were constantly writing about them. What he does is he takes the liberal reaction to it and he finds instances where liberals have overreacted and for every Trump action. There is someone on the left who overreact I happen to think that's pretty reasonable given the of things that have happened but you know fair enough and he always says I'm not defending Donald Trump here or he says, I'm not defending Rudy Giuliani

1 (25m 11s):
not defending Putin. I'm just pointing out the

2 (25m 14s):
obvious. I'm just saying that the left is a bigger threat to

3 (25m 18s):
America

2 (25m 22s):
Is This brilliant brilliant way of taking scandals that Trump has spun up

3 (25m 29s):
and move.

2 (25m 31s):
The eyes and the attention of millions of people to distractive element on the left and convincing them that that's the real threat to America if it really is a brilliant way to construct

3 (25m 48s):
propaganda.

2 (25m 59s):
Eric wimple is the Washington Post media critic and a former contestant on The Tucker Carlson show Tucker found himself in even more hot water since I spoke with Eric on Monday a regular guest on Fox News filed a lawsuit alleging Tucker Carlson, sexually harassed her invited her to his hotel in New York while his family wasn't around Tucker return from vacation last night. He spoke about protests is David Kanye and then protests again. And then Kanye again. He tried to pick a fight with the New York Times but never addressed the sexual harassment allegations nor did he address the departure of his head writer Blake Neff in any greater detail.

2 (26m 42s):
We reached out to Tucker Carlson and Fox News for comment on this episode. They said we will pass on this interview, but thanks for reaching out. I'm Shawn Rama's from its today

3 (26m 53s):
explains.