2 (1s):
20/20 takes fight when he explained

4 (7s):
big weekend steyer dropped out Buddha judge dropped out Biden finally Notch to win which leaves all eyes on tomorrow super Tuesday Andrew Prokop. What makes it so super how many states will be holding elections tomorrow. Well you have California, Texas, North Carolina, Virginia, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Colorado, Tennessee, Alabama, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Utah, Maine, Vermont and American Samoa American Samoa that's not even a state. He got 14 States and one territory you had a Cadence there. I wonder is there is there a song is there a super Tuesday song? I don't know. That's not my department whose department is it?

2 (46s):
Super Tuesday, super Tuesday. So who decided that all these

4 (1m 13s):
states would just go for it and super Tuesday? Day, nobody decided it. Nobody dictates the exact order of the primary calendar. The DNC has set one restriction. It's that four states, Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina get the privilege of going early, but after that early State period which this year is reserved for February is up, then it's really up to every other state or territory to decide when they want to hold their contest and a A lot of them made the decision that the way they think they'll be able to have the most influence on the contest is to go as early as they're allowed to basically which this year is the first Tuesday in March.

4 (1m 60s):
So basically the DNC says no one can go in February accept these four states, Iowa, New Hampshire Nevada South Carolina and all the states jump on as soon as they're allowed which happens to be tomorrow. Super Tuesday. Yeah or 14 In States in this case, but it's a process known as front-loading. It has resulted in the past and this year in somewhat unbalanced primary calendars. It's not really a gradual ramp up in how many delegates get allotted. We're going from four percent of the total Democratic delegates allotted before super Tuesday to about 38 percent after super Tuesday is done.

4 (2m 42s):
So that's an enormous jump in just One day though. We should also note that early voting and mail voting in several super Tuesday States has been going on for several weeks at this point. So not all of the votes will be cast on just one day but the results will start coming in on super Tuesday evening. How long is super Tuesday been super so the history is actually pretty interesting. It started in a much less super form in 1980 when Me Carter was the president. He was facing a primary Challenge from Senator Ted Kennedy.

4 (3m 22s):
We're facing the fact that mr. Carter will not come out of that white house or the Rose Garden, but we're going to get

2 (3m 29s):
them out of that White House in the Rose Garden

4 (3m 32s):
and he and his strategists wanted to ensure that states that were good for Jimmy Carter voted early so he could build up a big delegate lead. So in that case it was three large. Other states that moved to pretty soon after New Hampshire and as predicted they did result in Carter doing quite well and getting a big

2 (3m 54s):
delegate lead a Democrat. I thank you for the nomination. You've offered me. I accept your nomination. And we're going to beat the Republicans in the

4 (4m 11s):
super Tuesday also had this Southern character in the election Cycles. After that to this was part of a concerted project from the south to give their region more influence in helping pick the Democratic nominee, but eventually States in other regions caught onto this whole plan and the first Super Tuesday that truly span. Nation took place in 2000 and that's been the norm ever since the record was in 2008 for the number of states and the proportion of total delegates at

2 (4m 48s):
stake. Turnout was Heavy Across America from New York to California as 24 States held primaries or caucuses. This election has engaged and

4 (4m 58s):
energized Americans like no other in decades. This year's will not be as massive as 2008 but it will still be. Be pretty massive. It's interesting that Jimmy Carter was responsible here because we did an episode previewing the Iowa caucus called waialua and it seemed like he played a pretty big part in making Iowa the first state or the most important state in the primary process. They are to yeah, that's because the system of how we choose candidates was modernized starting with the 1972 presidential election and people were still kind of figuring out how this whole new system worked back then so in First run Jimmy Carter helped solidify the importance of Iowa in picking the nominee and then in his re-election campaign.

4 (5m 49s):
He started this trend of certain big states trying to move early to have more influence on the process and now decades down the line. We're still dealing with the logic and the consequences on strategies that were first pursued back then so he was successful though. He created this new strategy and everyone's basically followed that plan since everyone except Mike Bloomberg.

2 (6m 13s):
I'm Mike Bloomberg and I approved this

4 (6m 17s):
message. Nice. What is affected whether States go on super Tuesday or don't you mentioned that it's not exactly been like a completely consistent flow. It's really a decision made within the state among the state government or party leaders and it just varies from year to year, California for instance. Has moved around in 2016. They went in early June but in 2008 they were on super Tuesday and this year 2020. They are back on super Tuesday. Again. This was a specific decision made by the Democrats in charge of California's government that they thought it took too long to get to them last time around and they specifically wanted to exert more influence on the process this time.

4 (7m 10s):
So they're going

2 (7m 10s):
early.

4 (7m 25s):
How much weight does California have to throw around here considering it's the most populous state. It is definitely the Behemoth of the states that are up. It's got 415 pledged delegates at stake for context. There's 1344 delegates at stake overall on super Tuesday. That means California is about a third of that. So it's a really big deal you also this year though have a bunch of southern states the South is over represented on the super Tuesday lineup. You have Texas the second most populous state in the country that has a little more than half of the delegates of California.

4 (8m 7s):
So that's a big deal to and in addition to Texas. You also have North Carolina, Virginia, Tennessee, Alabama, Oklahoma and Arkansas and together counting Texas those seven southern states make up 46% of super Tuesday's delegate so super Tuesday. Day, a lot of it is still about the south. It's the South and it's California and then there's a grab bag of other contests Andrew. It sounds like it's time that you and I do a little bit of math delegate math. I love math good. How about after the break you help us understand how many delegates the eventual Democratic nominee will need to clinch the nomination.

4 (8m 48s):
Yeah, let me mentally prepare and then we can jump into it.

2 (8m 53s):
California

4 (9m 22s):
if listening to the news lately has you feeling worried about leaving the house. There's a great service that will bring your food to you called door - it's a place to go. If you want great food delivered to your door your local favorites or probably already on door - but with over 300,000 restaurant Partners across four thousand cities, you're probably going to find some new favorites to right now today explained listeners can Five dollars off their first order of $15 or more when you download the door - app and enter the code explained one more time with the arithmetic five dollars off your first order when you download the door - app in the app store or whatever store you use and enter the code explained if that order is over $15.

4 (10m 14s):
Don't forget that code. It is explained for five dollars off your first order. with door - bone appetit Hello, this is Jesse David Fox. I'm a senior editor at vulture and I host the podcast good one a podcast about jokes. It's a podcast about well jokes every week. I sit down with a comedian comedy writer or director. We list a one of their jokes and figure out how it all came together.

2 (10m 44s):
I don't sit down with a pen in the pad and physically write down everything. I just does not my

4 (10m 50s):
style turns out comedians take jokes. Seriously,

2 (10m 53s):
I like all Joe. Okay, that's what I do. That's what I live for this really nothing else. I care

4 (10m 60s):
about it's all very revealing. What did you sort of learn from this? What was your takeaway? All right. Nothing guy. I'm

2 (11m 8s):
not I'm not a smart person good one from vulture and the Box media

4 (11m 12s):
podcast Network subscribe for free on Apple podcasts or on your favorite podcast app. You do not to use the puck as Heparin. Oh, what a great question. Just see David Fox.

2 (11m 23s):
2015 22 2012

4 (11m 27s):
18 Andrew it's high time. I ask you how many delegates a Democratic candidate will need to ultimately secure the party's nomination to win the nomination on the first ballot at the Democratic National Convention a candidate needs 1991 out of 3979 pledged delegates that is Is 50% plus one rounded up a bit that doesn't sound that complicated. So it's just over 50% Why does this feel so complicated because the way the delegates are allotted in the Democratic primaries is pretty complicated, huh?

4 (12m 11s):
If we remember the Republican primaries back in 2016, they had a lot of states that awarded all of their delegates to whoever won the state. Of like how the Electoral College Works in almost every state you just come in first place and then you get everything classic us Democrats have no winner take all states the Democrats all of their states and territories all of their primaries and caucuses award their delegates based on the proportional results sounds European. If you get around 30 percent of the vote and someone else gets 25% of the vote and somebody else gets to Twenty percent of the vote.

4 (12m 54s):
Then those delegates would be split among those people roughly in proportion to how much of the vote they got got it because these delegates are awarded proportionally. That means that winning a state isn't all that matters the margin of Victory how much you win by is crucial how much the second place person gets is also crucial. You don't just have to win you have to win by a lot and There are a lot of aspects to these delegate rules that make things a bit more complicated more complication. Why did the Democrats complicate this more so than the Republicans there is a history to all this dating back to George McGovern's Insurgent candidacy in 1972 McGovern won the California primary very late in the process.

2 (13m 55s):
I always knew California was a big state, but I didn't know it would take so long to count the votes

4 (14m 3s):
California was a winner-take-all state and there were some arguments that having all of those delegates awarded to McGovern was a bad idea. So next time around the Democrats change the rules to try to build in strict proportional delegate out. Casein requirements into their system. So that's how the system is worked for decades for Democrats and it hasn't really gone awry in all of that time. But this is the year when it seems to have the greatest chance of going awry in the sense that these rules could either throw the nomination to someone who Who gets a relatively small plurality of the vote or alternatively they could result in the delegates being split among several people and Nobody ends up being able to get a clear majority.

4 (15m 5s):
And why is this more of an issue this time around is it just because so many people are running. Yeah, that's it's because there's so many candidates every recent super Tuesday. The Democratic field has winnowed to just two people before super Tuesday has began you had Clinton and Sanders. In 2016 you had Clinton and Barack Obama in 2008. You had cariann Edwards in 2004 gourd Bradley and mm. So it's a system that will produce a clear winner when there are just two people in the race. But if there are more than that who are doing well enough to get delegates which means passing 15% in the relevant state or District of the vote.

4 (15m 52s):
And then that's when things can go a little wrong. Oh bad news Andrew. We've got like a half dozen people potentially Landing delegates out here. What's going to go wrong? There are two scenarios where things get a little weird with this delegate math. The first unusual scenario is what happens if one candidate has a plurality of votes in a lot of big States. Okay say 30% of the vote, but the rest of the vote the other 70% is split among a whole lot of people and What ends up happening is that that key threshold 15% is only crossed by one other candidate.

4 (16m 36s):
That is what we saw happen in Nevada Bernie Sanders and Joe Biden were the only two candidates who passed the 15 percent threshold needed to get Statewide delegates. Every other candidate was eliminated. But the other consequence was that Bernie Sanders is Advantage was in Canst right Bernie and Biden got past the fifteen percent threshold. The other candidates didn't and Bernie won over Biden. So he gets the big Winners boost once everyone else is eliminated. What's funky scenario to so the other possibility is that lets say the vote splits among three candidates or four candidates and the same three or four people consistently top that fifteen percent threshold in a lot of places which means they get delegates and no one person is ahead by that much.

4 (17m 36s):
Okay for leading candidates. The race is tight. So what happens then is that one person will be in first place. But so many delegates are at stake on super Tuesday, especially about 34 percent of the total in the entire nomination contests are locked down in just one day. And if those delegates are split among three or four or more people with nobody getting a clear majority of them or anywhere close, then nobody will be on track to win that actual majority that you need to win the nomination and with so many delegates allotted those same proportional rules make it very difficult for anyone to get back on track after that point.

4 (18m 23s):
Basically you have to win overwhelming victories. To get a huge delegate majority except in the case of this odd, six or seven way split that I just went through and what happens in scenario 2 if we don't have a clear front runner with the majority of delegates by the time of the convention in July, that's the scenario that leads to a contested convention a muddled outcome. Nobody clearly in the lead. The delegates have split several ways. And there's a lot of fear in the Democratic party that a Fantastic invention would just lead to chaos.

4 (19m 3s):
Whoever is in first place in pledge delegates will definitely be arguing that they should just get the nomination because they got the most delegates. They didn't get a majority but nobody else got more than them. So they are the deserving winner and that's how elections usually work. Bernie Sanders likely anticipating that this candidate will be him has outright made this argument already he has Said that the winner in pledge delegates, even if they're short of a majority should just get the nomination but in the Las Vegas debate the candidates were all asked whether they would commit to supporting whoever gets the most delegates

2 (19m 50s):
should the person with the most delegates at the end of this primary season be the nominee, even if they are short of a

4 (19m 58s):
majority and none of them did besides Bernie

2 (20m 1s):
Vice President Biden. Hey, Bob. The rest are now leading person with the delicate. Should they be the nominee or not know let the process work its way out near Budaj not necessarily not to lose Senator

4 (20m 10s):
Klobuchar let the process work. They all wanted to keep their options open and this is how it has generally worked in the Democratic nomination contest of the past. It's just been widely agreed that to lock down the nomination you need 50% of delegates plus 1, but we've never really had a Relation in the modern democratic races since they reform the nomination system and made primaries and caucuses. So important in the 1970s where the outcome was truly split there has always been someone going into the convention who was pretty close to a majority of delegates and that person has always ended up getting the nominees.

4 (20m 53s):
So if you're out there hoping praying wishing for an uncontested convention, you have to hope super Tuesday or the primaries thereafter clear things up for everyone. Yeah. Yeah. The two weeks after super Tuesday are if not quite super at least reasonably sized on March 10th will see Michigan Washington, Missouri, Mississippi, Idaho and North Dakota. That's a fair chunk of delegates and on March 17th. There are several big States Florida, which is the third most populous state in the country as well as Ohio, Illinois and Arizona. So that is a really Hefty chunk.

4 (21m 33s):
Delegates there. So if things are up in the air after super Tuesday, there is at least a chance that the two weeks of contests following super Tuesday could clarify things very quickly. Andrew Prokop covers politics at vaux but his interests are manifold. I love math. He in our politics team will be covering the math out of super Tuesday over at vox.com and we'll bring you a podcast about the results to I'm Sean Rama's firm.

4 (22m 16s):
This is Tuesday explained.

2 (22m 19s):
Super Tuesday, super Tuesday. days