0 (1s):
Previously on today explained.

3 (4s):
So I think that there's like a certain amount of chaos that has now been injected into an already chaotic system, courtesy of Elon Musk. And one of the things that I think is really interesting is that this could play out in a variety of ways, including, you know, some way that I haven't

2 (20s):
Foreseen

0 (23s):
Ahead on today's show.

4 (25s):
We know Elon Musk wants to own Twitter and that'll happen in the next six months or so. Barring unforeseen Musk like circumstances. We know he says he's buying it because he wants to protect free speech. And he would like less content moderation on Twitter.

5 (41s):
Having a public platform that is maximally trusted and broadly inclusive is extremely important to the future of civilization.

2 (60s):
Today's episode is sponsored by thorn. Thorn believes that aging is a journey to be embraced, but it also recognizes that there are ways to make that journey more comfortable. That's why form provides a unique, comprehensive approach to healthy aging. Thorn is a health and tech company that teaches you about your body and based on test results, offer supplements that support your specific wellness goals and health needs to learn more, go to thorne.com/u/explained thorn.com/the letter U slash explained.

6 (1m 37s):
Dakota is a show about how big ideas really work and where they might go wrong. Hosted by me, Neil Patel editor in chief of the verge. I interview CEOs, policymakers, tech, experts, and creators about how they make decisions and how those decisions affect our shared future for better or worse. Past episodes have covered everything from self-driving cars to crypto, to social media moderation. It's a thoughtful, critical conversation about business and technology that you will not hear anywhere else. Follow Dakota, wherever you find your podcasts. New episodes come out. Every Tuesday.

9 (2m 16s):
Peter Kafka host of the Recode media podcast. A lot of people are threatening to delete their Twitter accounts right now because the richest man in the world bought the site. Are you deleting your Twitter account? Peter?

4 (2m 29s):
No, dude. I'm a Twitter addict. And I don't think any of the people who are complaining about Elon Musk are going to quit either. I think two of them will quit. Remember the Joe Rogan, Spotify imbroglio.

9 (2m 40s):
I remember it an old man named Neil young got very mad at Joe Rogan and the company that distributes his podcasts, Spotify, which subsequently lost something like a couple billion dollars of its market value.

4 (2m 54s):
I just talked to Spotify because they put out their Q1 numbers. They said they saw no effect in subscriber numbers one way or the other from that fight. So sometimes people say things on the internet and or Twitter that don't turn out to be true.

9 (3m 6s):
I guess the, you know, 45, 6, $4 billion question here is, is Twitter going to be a dramatically different place? Now, do we have the answer?

4 (3m 18s):
No, we don't have the answer. We Elon Musk delights in us, not knowing. I think he probably delights in himself, not fully knowing what he's gonna do. We know Elon Musk wants to own Twitter and that'll happen in the next six months or so. Barring unforeseen Musk like circumstances. We know he says he's buying it because he wants to protect free speech. And he would like less content moderation on Twitter.

5 (3m 43s):
Having a public platform that is maximally trusted and broadly inclusive is extremely important to the future of civilization.

4 (3m 53s):
And then there's some other stuff like you'd like an edit button and he'd like less spam. These are the kind of things you say. If you spend a lot of time hanging out on Twitter and have specific product ideas as opposed to buying the company. But we don't really know. And I suspect he does not know either. I think he bought this thing more or less on a whim. If you can do that with a $44 billion purchase,

9 (4m 14s):
How was Twitter run before Elon Musk?

4 (4m 19s):
Oh, I'm going to butcher the mark Zuckerberg quote. But I think it's a bunch of clowns drove their car into a gold mine. And that was early Twitter, but that's been pretty consistent. It has had a series of CEOs come in and out of the company series of product executives and other folks come in and out of the company. The perennial thing about Twitter is that lots of people, people like you and me are fascinated by it and glued to it. It has never been a very good business. That's maybe the most consistent thing you can say about it. And in recent years it has been staffed by a lot of people who take the premise of Twitter.

4 (4m 59s):
Seriously. They want Twitter to be an important platform for the world, but also a safe platform. They take the idea of making Twitter, less of assess pool, less of a health site as Twitter users usually describe Twitter

10 (5m 12s):
This morning, Twitter promising new changes after a massive online boycott CEO. And co-founder Jack Dorsey saying there'll be new rules around unwanted sexual advances, nonconsensual, nudity, hate symbols, violent groups, and tweets that glorify violence.

4 (5m 27s):
I think that is some of what Elon Musk wants to undo is this time and energy they've spent trying to moderate Twitter and make it less toxic and make it more thoughtful. I think he thinks that effort has gone too far.

9 (5m 45s):
And organizational structure wise, there was a board of directors and a CEO before and now there's just going to be what Elon Musk at the top of this pyramid,

4 (5m 55s):
Elon Musk will own it. It's his thing. He probably will have other investors come along with him. We don't know some banks are lending them money, but it's his he's bought it. We don't know who he intends to have run the thing day to day. If, if he will do that, like he runs Tesla and SpaceX to his other big companies, or whether he's going to bring in someone to sort of run the thing day to day, I would assume he'll do that. Cause it would seem wild for him to try to run three companies day-to-day but he's Elon Musk. So maybe that's the kind of thing he'll want to do.

9 (6m 23s):
So he's paid in $44 billion. You say there's banks involved. Does that mean there is some sort of urgency to make this company consistently profitable?

4 (6m 32s):
You know, he has made a point. He did this public interview during the takeover process. Cause that's something Elon Musk would do and no one else would do. I don't care

2 (6m 41s):
About the economics at

4 (6m 42s):
All. Which sounds like a great idea. If you're the world's richest, man, you can buy Twitter and not be concerned by by money. But the truth is even the world's richest man has to be concerned about a $44 billion investment. He needs Twitter to at least be as profitable as it is right now. It's not very profitable, but it does turn a profit. He can't afford for it to become less valuable than it is already because at some point he will want to either take it public. Again, find someone else to sell it to at a bare minimum. He needs it to throw off profits, just to help cover some of the interest on the debt he's taking on to buy this thing. So he cannot run the business into the ground, even though it is now his private play thing, he still has to sort of make it operate like a business.

4 (7m 23s):
And I think that is one of the things that is fundamentally in the end, going to restrain what he does with it. There's a lot of like, what is he going to do with Twitter? Is he going to blow it up? Is he going to fundamentally remake it? You know, I think even though he might intend to do that, once he gets into it and says, I don't know that there's a better way to run it more or less than the way it's running now, which is it's a free service and it's supported by ads. Maybe here's some stuff you can throw on one way or the other, but it needs to run like a business that makes money.

9 (7m 50s):
What do you think he might do to make it more profitable? What are the what's on the table?

4 (7m 55s):
I think the most obvious thing is he'll do right away is his cut the staff. That's the standard mergers and acquisitions playbook. You take a company from somebody and you say this would work better. If there were less people here and you fire a bunch of them and there's sort of a new conventional wisdom that will happen. If you look at the tweets from fellow travelers like mark Andreessen, another Silicon valley, billionaire, who's very interested in free speech and seems to have a lot of interest in Elon Musk on Twitter. He suggested that

11 (8m 23s):
The good big companies are overstaffed by two X. The bad big companies are overstaffed by four X or more

4 (8m 30s):
In terms of generating more revenue. I've got no idea. And I don't think he does either. Twitter for years has been trying to make itself a more advertising friendly business. They have advertising revenue. They did about $5 billion of it. Last year. It's just compared to a Google or a Facebook. It's just a nonentity it's it's way too tiny to generate much more interest. Are there other products and services that Twitter could sell? Twitter recently has been experimenting with consumer subscription services. There's something called Twitter blue. They're selling for like three or $5 a month. It's a, it's a service for Twitter, super users,

12 (9m 7s):
Huge user of Twitter. It's my most used social media app. And the one thing we wanted to see was an edit tweet button. That's what we were looking for. And Twitter blue. We didn't expect we have to be paying for such a service, but Twitter didn't even give us that.

13 (9m 23s):
And you can basically get a cup of coffee at Starbucks. Is it worth a cup of coffee for some premium features? Maybe, maybe for you? Not for me.

4 (9m 31s):
I talked to a former Twitter executive the other day. He said, maybe they'll throw in like a pay to tweet plan where if you're a power user like Elan and you get tons of value out of Twitter, but don't pay anything for it. Maybe you should have to pay, but this is all theory. We know that the most likely thing he'll do is try to cut costs, how he'll try to generate additional revenue. We're just guessing

9 (9m 52s):
There's been a lot of talk this week. And last week about Twitter being the public square. Elon Musk himself has said it. Former Twitter CEO, Jack Dorsey said Twitter quote wants to be a public good this week when he sort of endorsed Elon Musk's purchase of Twitter and a lot. And a lot of people seem to be upset that the richest man in the world can buy this so-called public square. It

4 (10m 18s):
Doesn't seem so public. Does it,

9 (10m 20s):
Is there, is there any question as to the legality of this transaction?

4 (10m 27s):
No. Some of the flags that you would normally get to throw with a deal like this, oh, there'll be an antitrust issue. There's no anti-trust issue here. He, he's not consolidating social networks. He's just a guy who wants to buy Twitter. It's a publicly traded company. He made it, he made an offer the owners of, of Twitter, hemmed and hawed for a little bit, tried to find another buyer who would offer them more. And he's the only one out there. And if he's the only one out there you kind of got to take the offer.

9 (10m 57s):
Is this just a reminder for people that Twitter isn't a public square,

4 (11m 2s):
It's a public company. Yes. It's a public company, which means it's actually fundamentally in the end, it has to answer to its shareholders. I've heard people floating in the past, the idea of, you know, making Twitter, an actual sort of public entity and I'm making it and putting it into a private trust or something. We'd say, look, we're no longer trying to operate that. As, as a business, we think this should effectively be, you know, run as a nonprofit. And there's a bunch of reasons why that hasn't happened, but it's not like people haven't floated that idea, but it is a for-profit public company. And this is one of the things that can happen, especially by the way, Twitter basically made this more feasible when it went public. That is one of the reasons why Elon Musk could come in and buy this thing,

9 (11m 42s):
Which is to say, it's not a public company anymore.

4 (11m 44s):
It won't be in about six months.

9 (11m 49s):
So in about six months, we may see more ads. We may see less, we may see another subscription model. He might get rid of that. But one thing we can be positive of is there will be less content moderation on this platform.

4 (12m 4s):
Yeah. He's been as clear as he can be about that one that he thinks there should be more speech, not less. And basically that these layers of moderation, these policies, these teams at Twitter as last, however many years, he wants to strip a lot of that happen.

9 (12m 23s):
That's Peter Kafka from Recode. We got to take a break. When we're back, we're going to talk to one of Peter's colleagues about free speech on twitter.com. I'm Sean Rama's from it's today. Explain

14 (12m 42s):
What do you think about when you hear the word philosophy, Maybe nothing at all, which is totally fine. Or maybe it makes you think of a stuffy seminar room or marble bust of dead Greek guys or giant books written a long time ago with little to say about your life. But philosophy is meant to be accessible to everyone at its best. It speaks to issues. We all face every day in the here and now Vox conversations has a new monthly series called the philosophers. Each episode focuses on the ideas of a philosopher or school of thought from the past and explains why they still matter.

14 (13m 25s):
Today. I talk with some really smart professors, but this is not a college course. We're talking about things that are relevant and vital, and we're interested in ideas that crystallize the world around us. Check out our episode on how our bear Camou can help us understand the war in Ukraine or our newest episode on how Hannah a rent describes the political dangers of loneliness. Listen to the philosophers with me, Sean nailing every month, right in the Vox conversations feed,

15 (14m 1s):
Hey folks, it's Preet Bharara, the former us attorney for the Southern district of New York. I lived that office for over seven years until I was fired by former president Trump five years ago. Now I host a podcast called stay tuned with Preet, from cafe and the Vox media podcast network. Every Thursday, I have long form conversations with the Newsmakers shaping our current moment and the thinkers who help make sense of it. Politicians, journalists, academics, and activists, people like Adam Schiff, Anita hill Masha Gessen and Daniel economy. As a former prosecutor, I focus on questions of justice. That means I dive deep into the war in Ukraine, the threat of climate change, the future of technology.

15 (14m 43s):
And of course the legal and political battles that are defining our time, like the investigations into former president Trump and the fights were voting and reproductive rights. I hope you'll consider listening and subscribing, just search. Stay tuned with Preet, wherever you get your podcasts.

5 (15m 1s):
I don't care about the economics at all.

9 (15m 4s):
Okay. Sherene Ghafari you're a senior correspondent here at Recode at Vox. What exactly does Elon Musk want to do with content moderation on Twitter?

2 (15m 14s):
Well, he doesn't want to do much of it. He says he's a free speech. Absolutist.

5 (15m 19s):
It's damn annoying. When someone you don't like says something you don't like that is a sign of a healthy functioning free speech situation.

9 (15m 27s):
And how does that compare to Twitter's current content moderation?

2 (15m 32s):
It's a pretty drastic departure. At least ideologically Twitter over the years has increased the amount of rules that it places against things like hate speech harassment, medical misinformation,

16 (15m 50s):
Twitter says it wants to delete internet hatred, but admits it can't eliminate hate speech altogether. The company is now training staff to fair it out abusers. And it's giving users a mute button to simply turn off tweets from abusive

15 (16m 3s):
Users.

2 (16m 3s):
So if you are out there, you know, saying hateful things as someone using racial slurs against someone that might not be against the law, right? But it could be considered hate speech by Twitter standards and they would have the right to give you a warning or to even potentially ban you. If you keep taking those kinds of actions

9 (16m 20s):
And Elon Musk, while he isn't saying he's pro hateful speech is kind of saying those kinds of things should be ELAP.

5 (16m 28s):
Well, I think it's very important for there to be an inclusive arena for free speech.

2 (16m 36s):
I mean, he hasn't given the details on exactly how it's going to execute yet, but under what he said so far yet,

9 (16m 43s):
How has that content moderation on Twitter been received by people on the left, by people in the middle, by people on the right

2 (16m 51s):
Many kind of prominent Democrats have been pushing for more content moderation, right? Because they think that sort of these bullying harmful voices can drown out more vulnerable populations, but you're also seeing a lot of people on the right. And I would say in the middle and even parts of the left, arguing that this is too heavy handed that these companies should not be saying, what is hate speech? What is not to the extent that they are and accusing, you know, a company like Twitter of political bias in executing this,

17 (17m 18s):
See who the hell elected you and put you in charge of what the media are allowed to report and what the American people are allowed to hear. And why do you persist in behaving as a democratic superPAC silencing views to the contrary of your political views,

2 (17m 37s):
Which there's not really systematic proof of, but you know, every side always thinks that the leaders in charge are biased against them.

9 (17m 44s):
Of course, Twitter is most famous instance of content moderation was kicking the former president off of the platform. Do we know if Elon Musk plans to bring him back?

2 (17m 57s):
He hasn't said one way or another, but it seems like a definite possibility. I would say it's in line with what his, his stated values are. And he's been sort of egging on the ride. And, you know, yesterday he tweeted something about how truth social, which is Trump's new social media app is higher on the app charts than Twitter. And these are kind of comments that are embraced by the right. And you're seeing people like Tucker Carlson and other prominent conservative figures, really seeing Ilan as like their new hero or champion who they're hoping will bring back Trump and will make Twitter a freer place for conservatives.

18 (18m 31s):
Obviously this is a victory for free speech. So I would hope that this is going to reverberate and maybe some of the other high-tech companies who have been engaging in censorship and shadow banning, and other things are going to follow suit and say, Hey, maybe people are serious about this free speech thing.

9 (18m 46s):
That's interesting. Have we, have we seen people on the right returning to Twitter or maybe signing up for the first time and, and conversely people on the left potentially leaving Twitter, canceling their accounts deactivating.

2 (18m 57s):
Yeah. There's some interesting data coming out. I saw some from a social media tracker called social blade and it showed that many prominent left-leaning users. People like Michelle Obama, Bernie Sanders, and AOC, that they have lost tens of thousands of followers since Monday when it was official, that Elon is likely going to be the new owner of Twitter and that a number of conservatives like Senator Ted Cruz and rep Marjorie Taylor green, that they've seen their follower counts actually tick upward. So they're seeing a gain by tens of thousands of followers. So what that could indicate is that, you know, people, some people on the left, some of these people supporting Obama and AOC that they're checking out and people on the right either, or either returning or making new accounts,

19 (19m 40s):
72% of Republican accounts gained followers between Monday and Tuesday morning. Now get this because almost all democratic lawmakers lost followers during that same time period,

9 (19m 53s):
How has this all playing out within Twitter? It seemed like, you know, it was just a few weeks ago where Twitter CEO said there will be distractions ahead. And here we are. And Elon Musk now owns the company for all intents and purposes.

2 (20m 8s):
I have to say, this has been one of the most kind of unexpected and wild business stories that I think I've ever covered. I don't think most of what our employees saw this coming at all.

20 (20m 22s):
My name is Jackson Mulholland. I'm one of the many people here working at Twitter in charge of developing terms and conditions for users. We're not stripping away, free speech. We're protecting users from bullies, bigots and spam. I refuse to work for, or with Elon Musk. I'm resigning.

2 (20m 40s):
I'm hearing that many are kind of in a state of shock. Even, you know, a few weeks ago, I would say many were thinking that this is just Ilan being Elon, who knows what the deal will actually happen. And here we are, and this is real. And keep in mind, the CEO is pretty new. He started just, you know, several months ago. So he sort of didn't even have a chance to really start his tenure. And, you know, I would say the reactions in terms of our put our employees pro or anti Ilan being the new owner or mixed, most people I've talked to are worried, but, you know, especially those people who are working on those teams like content moderation or policy who have come up with these really thoughtful ways to categorize if something's hate speech or not, they feel it worried that, you know, sort of all that work is going to come undone to make Twitter like a safer, healthier place.

2 (21m 23s):
That being said, I think there are also some employees we know from reports or also other employees who are excited for Musk. They think that Twitter has not been making as much money as it could. It's not growing as quickly as it could compare to the other bigger social media giants. And they think that Musk may provide, you know, a fresh change.

9 (21m 43s):
Is any of this playing out in the public eye or is it all behind the scenes?

2 (21m 47s):
Oh, this is definitely spilled over. So it's been quite dramatic in that Twitter's top lawyer, someone named vagi got a, she has been instrumental in sort of leading all these teams at Twitter that work on content moderation. And she is the person who sort of oversaw the decision to ban Trump. Obviously she's been in the public eye for a while because of this, but she's also the person who was sitting in negotiating the deal with Ilan because she is the top lawyer at Twitter. And so in this sort of dramatic corporate turn of events, Elon Musk has tweeted through negatively about God's leadership and has questioned her. Decision-making about time when Twitter blocked an article by the New York post with hacked materials from hunter Biden.

2 (22m 30s):
And basically Musk is publicly kind of dragging the very person who he negotiated with to buy this company and who is a respected leader within Twitter, although a controversial one on the right. But what that's essentially done is sort of made what would otherwise kind of be behind the scenes, corporate tension, very, very public and true Ilan fashion, putting it all out there and, you know, directing a lot of anger on both sides. I think,

9 (22m 59s):
What do we know about how you Elon has run his other companies, SpaceX, Tesla, and how might that suggest he runs Twitter?

2 (23m 10s):
He says, he's all for free speech, but in his actual track record, as a leader at Tesla and SpaceX, he hasn't always been the biggest advocate for free speech.

21 (23m 21s):
The world's richest freeloader evidently has a very thin skin.

2 (23m 27s):
He actually made employees at Tesla sign like non-disparagement clauses. So they couldn't say anything negative about the company when they left. He has even interrupted, you know, an earnings call before, which are usually quite professional. You don't usually see, you know, CEOs come and interrupt the financial analyst when they ask questions. But that's exactly what he did one time.

22 (23m 47s):
Yeah. So where specifically will you be in terms of your requirements next boring brown head questions are not cool next.

2 (23m 58s):
So, you know, Elon Musk is someone who, some people find it hypocritical that he's, he's talking so much about free speech when he himself has been quite defensive and tried to shut down people who are critical of him or his companies.

9 (24m 11s):
And what does this mean for how he might manage the public square

2 (24m 15s):
It's it's concerning to some folks. And, you know, he just said he publicly tweeted that I want my critics to be on Twitter because I do believe in free speech. But I think, you know, we w we do have a reason to doubt his commitment to that when his actions sort of seem to say, otherwise, That being said, I think if Elon Musk went around and just like shut down, every single person who had a beef with Twitter would not be a successful company, right. You sort of need people disagreeing for Twitter to even work. So I don't think that we're going to see like drastic change overnight,

9 (24m 47s):
And maybe we should take comfort in the fact that Elon Musk totally blows this. We've been through many social media platforms already, and we can take comfort in the fact that there will likely always probably be another one. And next one, a cooler one, a better one.

2 (25m 5s):
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, just think about how quickly people left in my space to go to Facebook or how people are now. Young people are leaving Facebook and going to tick-tock right? Social media companies can and will fall. And if Twitter ultimately is not a place that a wide group of people want to participate in, then it's going to be vulnerable to competition. Coming in eating it's cake.

9 (25m 33s):
Sharon Ghafari is a senior correspondent covering social media at Recode. Before that you heard from her colleague, Peter Kafka, he writes a weekly column about media and tech, and you can find it most Wednesdays of box.com. He has a podcast about media and tech called Recode media. You can find it once or twice a week, wherever you listen. You can get in touch with us. Anytime via email today explained@box.com. We're also on Twitter. Thank you. Great Ilan. We're also also on the radio. Thanks to our partnership with w NYC. Our episode today was produced by miles Bryan and Hottie, Milwaukee D I edited it. I'm Sean Rama's for him. He mixed it and mastered it.

9 (26m 14s):
He's a theme Shapiro. She fact checked it. She's Laura Bullard, happy birthday today. Explain supervising producer is Amina outside of our editors. Matthew Colette. Our Veep, a body at box is Liz Kelly Nelson. We use music from Breakmaster cylinder and no I'm Hassenfeld Noel king hosts the show with me and the rest of the team includes Halima Shaw, Victoria Chamberlain. And one last time we'll read

23 (26m 41s):
Raw designed

9 (26m 44s):
Today, explained as part of the box media podcast network.