0 (0s):
Just about 23 years ago, a band called blink 180 2, put out a song about aliens existing. It was called aliens exist.

1 (10s):
<inaudible> we all know,

0 (31s):
But years later, something totally unpredictable happened. The Millhouse sounding dude singing that song, Tom DeLonge. He would sort of become an authority on unidentified flying objects. Tom Delong's research on UFO's was cited in the New York times and the times his coverage led to UFO's being taken way more seriously than they had been in recent memory. And we are revisiting our episode on that Renaissance on today. Explain

‎Are You Sleeping? (59s):
Today's show is brought to you by, are you sleeping a podcast from mattress firm produced by Vox creative? Are you worried about getting too little sleep? That stress is a reality for lots and lots of people who work changing shifts and have a hard time adjusting their sleep cycles in the latest episode, a baker calls in for advice on how to get up earlier. And they hear from a long haul trucker who makes her home and her bed on the road. Listen to, are you sleeping wherever you get your podcasts?

0 (1m 39s):
Did I explained Sean Rama's from here with Gideon Lewis Kraus from the new Yorker who says UFO's are having a Renaissance.

3 (1m 48s):
So yes, I can. I think we can confidently say we're in, we're in the midst of UFO Renaissance. The question is who knows how long this will last. I mean, there have been times where this kind of thing has flared up in the past and then dissipated fairly quickly, but for now, yeah, absolutely.

0 (2m 5s):
On the show today, we're going to try and understand how this sort of conspiratorial mainstay came to be taken seriously in the United States. I mean, Congress just had its first UFO hearing in half a century. This may, we're going to start with the best of the best UFO sightings.

3 (2m 23s):
I mean, by far the best known case at this point. And one of the cases that motivated a lot of this, a renewed interest was what the so-called Nimitz encounter.

4 (2m 41s):
It was November, 2004 and the USS Nimitz carrier strike group was training about 100 miles Southwest of San Diego for a week. The advanced new radar on a nearby ship, the USS Princeton had detected what operators called multiple anomalous aerial vehicles over the horizon, descending 80,000 feet in less than a second.

3 (3m 5s):
And these were showing up for about a week. And then finally, after about a week, they said, well, we might as well have this checked out. So they vectored to <inaudible> to go see what was going on to intercept one of these. So these two planes with four pilots, most notably, this commander, David Fravor, who's shown up in 60 minutes, a bunch of this stuff. And most recently now his wing woman, Lieutenant commander, Alex Dietrich, who had never spoken in public before these four pilots give the same story that they showed up. And there was kind of a roiling Shoal, the neath of water about the size of a 7 37 as if there had been some sub sub surface <inaudible>.

5 (3m 45s):
And we saw this little white tic TAC looking object, and it's just kind of moving above the whitewater area.

6 (3m 50s):
Do you ever drop your phone? And it sort of bounces off the countertop and then bounces off something else. And then it's sort of like, no, no predictable movement, no predictable trajectory. It was

5 (4m 2s):
Just, it was just like a ping pong ball.

3 (4m 3s):
Then commander Fravor descended the tic-tac registered his presence swerved kind of mirrored his faints for a few minutes.

5 (4m 12s):
As soon as I'm coming down, it starts coming up.

4 (4m 15s):
So it's mimicking.

5 (4m 17s):
Yeah, it was aware we were there.

3 (4m 18s):
And then this tic-tac just darted off at some ultrasonic philosophy.

6 (4m 23s):
You know, I think that over beers we've sort of said, Hey man, if I saw this solo, I don't know that I would've come back and said anything because it sounds so crazy. When I say,

3 (4m 32s):
And subsequently a fifth pilot went out with an infrared pod and recorded this video known as FLIR one.

5 (4m 39s):
I don't know who's building it. Who's got the technology, who's got the brains, but there's, there's something out there that was better than our airplane

0 (5m 5s):
Okay. So this Nimitz encounter features some pretty credible seeming pilots who we just heard on 60 minutes talking about seeing some UFO's darting around the sending at 80,000 feet a second. It's pretty persuasive stuff, but I'm guessing there's a reason to be skeptical here.

3 (5m 24s):
So there are reasons to be skeptical of each component in isolation. So some of the skeptics, most notably this guy, Mick west

7 (5m 31s):
Today, the Navy officially released three videos of UFO's.

3 (5m 35s):
These are retired video game designer, and he's made a living out of debunking. A lot of these videos,

7 (5m 40s):
The internet immediately took this as meaning that aliens are real, but the videos are not actually new.

3 (5m 45s):
He's pointed out that like, actually this really could have just been an error on the part of the pilot who didn't flip the zoom and that really

7 (5m 53s):
The subject doesn't actually move on screen except when the camera moves and it resembled out of focus, low resolution backlit, plain. I don't know what the pilots saw, but this video does not show anything really interesting,

3 (6m 4s):
You know, and Nick west version of this, well, there had been this radar upgrade and maybe the radar wasn't calibrated very well. And so all of a sudden the radar was picking up clouds or it was picking up birds. And then, well, what did these pilots see our target balloon? And then what did the subsequent pilot film? Well, the subsequent pilot filmed a commercial plane

7 (6m 24s):
Videos. Don't show evidence of any kind of advanced technology. So unfortunately the real explanations while fun to investigate are probably pretty boring.

3 (6m 34s):
That all seems perfectly persuasive when you watch Mick west videos, but he can only determine that by essentially writing off the rest of the evidence,

0 (6m 42s):
That actually sounds a lot less persuasive. That just sounds like this perfect storm of alternate theories.

3 (6m 47s):
I mean, that's one of the things that the UFO people often say in reply is that like in a weird way, Occam's razor would be, oh, it's much likely, or that there was some kind of actual UFO, whether it was extra terrestrial or whether it was developed by some adversary than like this string of crazy coincidence is that have to be put together to Mount this alternative explanation. So, you know, at, at a certain level, there's just this argument over like the basic attitude toward the data where one side says, this is a whole bunch of randomness assembled to mean something. And the other side says, well, like if you're going to say that that's a plausible explanation, why won't you even grant that? There's like the plausible explanation that this in fact was one thing that was seen.

3 (7m 29s):
And we don't know what it was.

0 (7m 31s):
I mean, if we are to take these pilots seriously and to trust their accounts, what are we accepting exactly? Are we accepting that they saw something real that we can't explain or are we saying aliens exist?

3 (7m 45s):
Well? So, you know, certainly even the pilots themselves will be the first people to say like the far likelier explanation is that this is either our own classified technology or the classified technology of an adversary. Clearly that's going to be the explanation you reach for before you reach for a extra terrestrial explanation. Now there are problems with those explanations though, right? So if, if we are to believe what has been the flight characteristics attributed to these things, it seems hugely unlikely that they would be a foreign adversaries technology, because we would know about some of those interim steps, that there's no way that you make that kind of overnight leap.

3 (8m 28s):
And there's no trace of the interim steps there. And you know, if you pursue that even further, this Nimitz encounter was in 2004. So you think that this was developed 20 years ago that you know, they'd functional prototypes 20 years ago and then they've never used them because it seems like if you have that, you would probably want to use it to demonstrate like your complete technological dominance, right?

0 (8m 52s):
Like when the United States dropped the atomic bomb or something like that.

3 (8m 55s):
Exactly. I think it's pretty rare to find a time lag where you've developed some super secret technology and then you don't use it for 20 years.

0 (9m 3s):
So what you're saying is if you accept that these pilots saw what they think they saw, what you are accepting is that there is extra terrestrial life that has visited our planet.

3 (9m 19s):
The problem is that like all of these arguments are arguments by process of elimination. Process of elimination is just not a great style of argumentation. It's not airtight, it's subject to all kinds of bad initial assumptions, but yeah, I mean, lots of people follow that logical path you've just laid out and that's the conclusion they come to.

0 (9m 42s):
You can't help, but acknowledge the fact that like, if we are talking about this right now, in terms of this UFO Renaissance, the idea that there's extra stress, real life, this isn't humanity at its best, you know, what would it mean if humanity, all of a sudden had to acknowledge the existence of extraterrestrial life? I mean it a particular time where it seems like we truly cannot agree on anything.

3 (10m 9s):
Well, okay. So the first thing that I'll point out is that the UFO issue has rare bipartisan appeal in America. This has not somehow broken down along predictable cultural war lines. This is something that, you know, everybody likes to talk about UFO's and maybe UFO's are going to be the thing that like allow us to heal the divisions in our country. But I mean, on a more serious level as your client wrote a very nice column, that was kind of a followup to my piece, talking about, you know, exactly that question as like, what would this look like?

0 (10m 45s):
Sorry, who's

3 (10m 45s):
That as recline,

9 (10m 53s):
But seriously, imagine tomorrow you have an alien craft. It, it crashes down in Oregon. There are no life forms in it. It's I guess a drone basically, but it's undeniably extraterrestrial in origin. So, so we have the knowledge that we're not alone, that we're maybe being watched and we have no way to make contact. How does that change human culture and society? Yeah.

3 (11m 13s):
I talked to this guy, Avi lube, who is the Harvard astrophysicist, who had determined that this object that pass through our solar system a couple of years ago, might've been the detritus of some alien civilization. Might've been a LightSail or something. And in his book he says, look, what would the consequences be? If we believe that this could have been an artifact of an alien civilization. And he has a very sunny, optimistic view, which is that like, this would weld us and, you know, immediately well-dressed together as a species, we would let go of our petty, tribal divisions and jealousies. We would, you know, it would represent like a global kind of Sputnik moment where all of a sudden we would be motivated to stop arguing about stupid bullshit and like come together.

3 (11m 59s):
And once we had seen a demonstration that this kind of thing was possible, then we would pour all of our resources into becoming ourselves a cosmic civilization.

0 (12m 8s):
But this could just as easily go the other way. Right? The superpowers could potentially just turn on each other, like in the Amy Adams alien movie, arrival

10 (12m 19s):
Problem is not everyone shares our policy of being open with the aliens. Have you met general Shang call sign for him? His big domino, whatever Shang does at least four other nations will follow,

3 (12m 30s):
Right? Which was vastly vastly inferior to the novella. It was based on. But

11 (12m 35s):
Tonight China becomes the first world power to declare war against the aliens.

3 (12m 40s):
There's this political scientist named Alexander Wendt at Ohio state who has been writing about this for a long time. He has this academic journal article from 2008 called sovereignty in the UFO. And his argument is that we can't like the reason for the UFO taboo is because the existence of extra fresh would just fundamentally undermine like our anthropocentric ideas of what sovereignty even is. And that like the whole geopolitical order would go to hell because people would think like, why am I paying attention to my government when there are aliens out there?

0 (13m 18s):
So it could go either way.

3 (13m 20s):
It seems like it could go either, right? Yeah.

0 (13m 22s):
Fingers crossed Didion Lewis Kraus from the new Yorker returns in a minute. And we're finally going to get to that UFO Renaissance and how exactly it happened. I'm Sean Rama's firm it's today explained

12 (13m 49s):
Over the years, read, visited area 51 several times, but whatever he saw out there, he's never commented

13 (14m 9s):
Today. Military footage of flying objects that can't be explained a decade of hidden funding in the government budget. A times investigation discovered a secret program inside the Pentagon to investigate the threat of UFO's.

‎Are You Sleeping? (14m 48s):
Are you sleeping? No, you're listening to me. It's an question. It is also a podcast from mattress firm produced with Vox creative. When it comes to sleep, we hear a lot about the importance of keeping a schedule, but there are so many ways that the schedule can get messed up. I've been asked to share a story here. There are too many stories. The schedule is always messed up on the latest episode of are you sleeping a baker calls in for advice. She sometimes has to get up extra early to start the ovens, and she wants to know how she can adjust to an irregular schedule. And they also hear from a long haul trucker who carries a comfortable, a wastage of rest with her, wherever she goes and whatever she sleeps, I would tune in just to find out what that means. Plus hosts Katie Berlin calls on some sleep experts for tips on dealing with shift work, which can have real serious health implications check out. Are you sleeping and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts? Are you sleeping? Listen, now

0 (15m 57s):
Getting you alluded to the fact that, you know, UFO's are having a Renaissance right now, but obviously that implies that this isn't the first time, this isn't this unprecedented moment of attention on the possibility of aliens and unidentified flying objects in our atmosphere.

3 (16m 20s):
Well, I mean, that's really why I did this story in the first week of looking into this. I discovered that there was this whole forgotten history that I certainly knew nothing about, about America's long standing relationship with UFO's. I had initially imagined that the story was about how a completely fringe topic that nobody had ever taken seriously had all of a sudden become a creditable topic. Turns out that actually it was kind of a reversion to the historical mean from 1947 to 1970. This was something people talked about all the time. It was on the cover of not, not just life magazine and look magazine, but Saturday evening post. And there's a copy of the New York times magazine that had a flying saucer on the cover and a really sober treatment of it inside.

0 (17m 6s):
So between the 1970s and essentially the arts, this is mostly relegated to this fringy conspiracy place fueled in part, let's say from a few will Smith movies. Welcome to her.

3 (17m 27s):
I mean, yes, except for the fact that there's also all kinds of evidence to show that behind the scenes, the government was still interested there. You know, I write about this famous four page memo written by a DIA source in terror on in 1976, after the Shah's generals had sent somebody up and for Phantom to intercept glowing diamond shaped lights, Northeast of Toronto, near the Soviet border. And you know, this came back to Washington and this communique with a cover letter saying that this was an outstanding example of the phenomenon. So clearly even though publicly, they weren't taking this seriously privately, there were plenty of people taking this seriously.

0 (18m 10s):
Well, how long is it before the U S government prominently starts taking this seriously, perhaps in a public way again,

3 (18m 19s):
Well, public way, not until they're forced to in, in 2017 privately what happens is in 2007, Harry Reed, along with the late senators, Ted Stevens and Daniel in a way fund this secret black money project, $22 million going to an outside contractor to look into UFO's

0 (18m 43s):
Harry Reed, like a formerly very powerful person.

3 (18m 47s):
Yeah, absolutely. Simon majority leader.

0 (18m 49s):
Where does his interest in UFO's come from? Is it just because like area 50 ones in his backyard or something?

3 (18m 55s):
Yeah. I mean, he's from Nevada. And like this stuff is in the water out there

12 (18m 59s):
Over the years. Read, visited area 51 several times, but whatever he saw out there, he's never commented.

3 (19m 6s):
He had been interested in this stuff for a long time. I mean, since at least the nineties, he hasn't been shy about that.

14 (19m 13s):
My opinion, this is something that we should be studying. It's a worldwide phenomenon, not just here.

3 (19m 19s):
He's himself said, like there were many times over the years when my staff members said like, stop associating yourself with this UFO stuff, because it's going to make you look like a lunatic. And he said, no, I, I want to be associated with this stuff,

0 (19m 33s):
Harry Reed ahead of his time. And a decade later, it doesn't seem so embarrassing to be associated with this stuff. How does that happen?

3 (19m 41s):
The primary reasons that it appears in the New York times, which just legitimizes the whole thing overnight today,

13 (19m 47s):
Military footage of flying objects that can't be explained a decade of hidden funding in the government budget. A times investigation discovers a secret program inside the Pentagon to investigate the threat of

3 (20m 6s):
The next reason is that they have these two videos. And of course like the videos capture public imagination and they have the testimony of these very credible seeming pilots. So, you know, there, there was nothing in the time story that like was particularly outlandish. I mean, the in fact, the times story was criticized by a lot of UFO types who said, like, who were really disappointed by it because they said, well, on the one hand, it's great that we're talking about UFO's again in public. On the other hand, this whole story is framed. Not as the phenomenon is real, but it was the Pentagon was studying you off of us and has been continuing to study UFO. So it was framed as a story, a DOD program, and a story about government resources rather than framed as like UFO's are real.

0 (20m 56s):
And what does that story due to the Pentagon study of UFO's?

3 (21m 1s):
So the thing that I found was that even if the people who wrote that New York times story thought that they were exposing a really formidable, serious UFO program, what they were actually doing was functionally creating one, Which is to say that the program they exposed was, you know, essentially one guy with, with a very small cohort of people that had all been interested in UFO's for a really long time, who had faced tremendous headwinds at the Pentagon. But that basically what happened was the people who were interested in pursuing the issue, realized that they weren't gonna get anywhere internally.

3 (21m 45s):
And that the way to make the Pentagon care about this issue was to make Congress care about this issue. And the way to make Congress care about this issue was to make people care about the issue. So they knew that if they went public in a big enough way, there would be, you know, growing public awareness of and interest in the issue. And that would lead to Congress, people taking the issue seriously, and not once it was taken seriously on the, in the legislative branch that they would push the DOD to take it seriously, which is exactly what happened. So even if the times kind of purported to reveal this really important program, basically from what I understood from my reporting is that like the program didn't get serious until basically 2018, when Congress mandate

0 (22m 31s):
Gideon after spending months researching and reporting on UFO's, where do you land? Do you believe?

3 (22m 41s):
I mean, where I land is that like whatever is going on and seems to be like considerably weirder than people give it credit for being that something weird is going on. And you know, maybe at least some of these incidents are reducible to drones or drone, swarms that are like, you know, low rent technologies being used for surveillance. But you know, there's a lot of stuff that just can't be all that easily explained. That's hard to dismiss.

0 (23m 20s):
Did your investigation and your reporting bring you to a deeper understanding of why it is. We so desperately want to believe whether we're Democrats or Republicans or Americans or Russian or Indian or Cote d'Ivoire. And why is it that we want to believe that there's something else out there?

3 (23m 44s):
I mean, to me, that's a really, that's an easy question to answer. And in fact, I think it's like a somewhat harder question to ask the opposite, which is why are people not inclined to believe it? I mean you, or why wouldn't, why wouldn't people want to believe it. Like, especially if you believe, if there are extra estriol civilizations that are capable of, you know, intergalactic travel, it radically expands the horizon of what would be possible in a time that can feel like such a dismal grind. It can feel like all of a sudden the universe is, is radically open-ended. Again,

0 (24m 34s):
Thanks to Gideon Lewis, Kraus staff writer at the new Yorker. His big piece on UFO's is a must for everyone who wants to believe it's called how the Pentagon started taking UFO seriously in true new Yorker fashion. It's like 18 pages long I'm Sean Ramez from it's today explained we had some music today from blue dot sessions, some cooperation from the new Yorker radio hour and a cameo from Ezra Klein.

9 (25m 1s):
Also, I miss you all and I love you. And I miss you.

‎Are You Sleeping? (25m 15s):
Today's show was brought to you by, are you sleeping a podcast from mattress firm produced by Vox creative shift work can be terrible changing schedules, wreak havoc on circadian rhythms, and they can lead to health implications in the long run on the latest episode of baker calls in for advice on dealing with her early alarm stress and a long haul trucker talks about believe it or not the comforts she has found on the road, listen to, are you sleeping wherever you get your podcasts and don't forget to subscribe. Are you sleeping? Listen now.