1 (4s):
For a hundred plus days ever since Russia invaded Ukraine, we have heard this story and we have told the story that Russia is isolated. Vladimir Putin is friendless. His war of aggression is impossible to defend, but a meeting between Putin and another world leader five days ago suggests that maybe we underestimated Putin

2 (27s):
Mackey cell. The head of the African union is gearing up to hold talks with Vladimir Putin and Saatchi. On Friday, the Senegalese head of state is looking for a breakthrough.

1 (37s):
Putin has something that much of the world needs very badly and he knows it and he's using it to make allies coming up on today, explained how Russia turned food into a weapon of war

3 (60s):
Support for the show. Today comes from thorn. If you're aging, just kidding. We all, our thorn believes aging should be a journey to be embraced, but it also recognizes that there are a lot of ways to make that journey feel more comfortable and more your own. They provide a comprehensive approach to healthy aging. To learn more. You can visit thorn.com/u/explained. That is thorn.com/the letter U slash explained

4 (1m 29s):
The Coca-Cola company. Keurig Dr. Pepper and PepsiCo are bringing consumers more choices with less sugar than ever before. In fact, nearly 60% of beverages sold contain zero sugar. Visit balance us.org to learn more

1 (1m 52s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. If you have been anywhere lately, you most likely have seen a very simple flags strung across a window or tack to the side of a building. It's blew up on the top. It's yellow on the bottom. That is a Ukrainian flag. It's being flown as a sign of solidarity. The blue represents the sky and the yellow represents wheat fields of which Ukraine has many

5 (2m 16s):
Top five in the world when it comes to exports of wheat and corn and barley. It's the biggest exporter in the world by far when it comes to the sunflower oil,

1 (2m 27s):
Dan Charles, a freelance journalist and radio producer who covers agriculture and climate. That is a lot

5 (2m 33s):
Well, it's a big country. So think about, let's say you're driving across the United States. You drive across Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa. Ukraine is bigger than those states put together. And a lot of it actually looks like the American Midwest. I know it's a former grassland like the American Prairie deep rich soil,

6 (2m 59s):
A perfect of sunshine and rainfall has the fabled black earth belt of Ukraine, long known as the bread basket of Europe bursting with marketable products.

5 (3m 10s):
You go back in history a little bit, you know, before the Soviet union, there were lots of little farms across that area in the early 1930s in the Soviet union, that was collectivized brutally big collective farms were formed on that area.

7 (3m 27s):
The Soviet union's force collectivization program was supposed to modernize farming, but it contributed to a famine that killed millions of Ukrainian farmers.

5 (3m 36s):
Then, you know, the Soviet union collapsed as we know, and in the past 15 years or so, a lot of investors have come in. Companies rented that land and they are running big farms with modern equipment. And they are really very productive.

8 (3m 52s):
Well look where we're standing now. This was an old collective farm in Soviet times, and now it's one of the most modern agricultural complexes

1 (4m 4s):
When there's not a war, how do these foodstuffs get out of Ukraine?

5 (4m 10s):
They go out on trucks and train loads by and large. They head to ports on the black sea, which if you're looking at a map is on the Southern edge of Ukraine, particularly on the Southwestern side, the biggest ports are in Odessa and around Mika Leia. And from there, these ships would take that grain all over the world.

1 (4m 33s):
And so Russia began its war in Ukraine in February, which meant it was the middle of the winter. What would have been happening with Ukraine's food exports at that point?

5 (4m 44s):
Right? So the wheat fields were actually planted already in Ukraine. They mostly grow. What's called winter wheat, which you plant in the fall and then it goes dormant. And then it starts growing again when temperatures warm up in the spring. So the wheat fields were they're just ready to grow the other fields. Yeah, they were ready for planting. The ports though were really busy because they were shipping last year's harvest. I actually called up one of the people who follows this really closely, his name's Andre seas off he's head of a company called salve econ. He really follows black sea green markets. And he was saying, you know, the ports were full of grain, ready to ship

9 (5m 28s):
Ukraine harvested the record high crop in 2021, it was exporting it very fast, actually with thoughts that it was a good chance. Ukraine could become, again, number one, corn supplier to China, instead of the U S

5 (5m 47s):
You know, when Russia invaded, there were still about 20 million, tons of grain, both corn and wheat, ready to get loaded on ships.

1 (5m 55s):
And so when the war started, Russia immediately blockade those 20 million tons.

5 (6m 2s):
Well, what happened immediately was ships just stopped because they were scared. They were nobody dared to enter the black sea out of fear. Insurance companies jacked their rates up so much because of the risk that shippers said, Nope, not going to go into the black sea. So that happened right away

9 (6m 25s):
And doubt strongly that a reopening of the ports could happen shortly because unfortunately, this war is becoming an economical war as well. And I don't think that's Russia will be interested in helping Ukraine and Ukrainian agriculture and the Ukrainian economy and to reorg on the terminals

1 (6m 47s):
That green that's been stuck since February at the black sea ports. What happens to it? Does it rot? Does it go bad? Like how urgent is it that it gets to where it needs to go?

5 (6m 58s):
There have been reports of, you know, Russians basically seizing grain and transporting it back to Russia.

10 (7m 8s):
New satellite images show what appear to be the ramping up of theft by Russia of Ukrainian grain, being poured into the open hold of a Russian ship.

5 (7m 18s):
It's unclear how much of that is going on, but you know, the facilities, if they're not destroyed that grain can sit there quite a while. Wheat is not necessarily going to go bad. The problem is there's another harvest coming.

1 (7m 32s):
At what point does it occur to the rest of the world? That if this war keeps going, we're in trouble, when did that realization hit?

5 (7m 39s):
It hit immediately.

1 (7m 42s):
Okay.

5 (7m 46s):
The clearest signal was, people got scared that there was going to be a shortage of grain. And so they immediately tried to secure their own supplies, driving up prices.

11 (7m 55s):
You might've noticed that your grocery store, that food prices are up. One item getting hit hard right now is wheat

5 (8m 2s):
In the days after the war broke up, wheat prices shot up. The same happened with sunflower oil. It has dropped since then, but it's still like 40 or 50% more expensive than before the war. And part of what's driving that is simply the uncertainty and the fear as countries or grain traders, try to grab and hoard grain supplies for themselves.

1 (8m 29s):
Is it even getting out into the world in other ways than the sea ports,

5 (8m 33s):
A little bit confined its way across the Western border on trucks, into Romania or Slovakia or Poland, but there are big logistical problems. Trains are complicated because there's a different rail gauge, you know, in Ukraine versus in Poland or Slovakia. And so stuff would, the train cars would have to be lifted up and put back different wheel sets underneath. So I talked to a farming expert. Who's worked in this region is named Mike Lee. He's British he's director of a company called green square agro consulting, which monitors farming operations all over this region. And he said, you know, a lot of people for a while were talking about transporting grain to this port in Romania, that also is on the black sea, but he said, you know, just look at this route, you have to deal with crossing international borders.

12 (9m 26s):
And then you get to the Danube river and there's a ferry and the ferry looks more like a tourist ferry. I don't know. I haven't worked it out. It takes off sort of 40 or 50 vehicles at a time to shuttle backwards and forwards across the Danube.

5 (9m 40s):
Yeah. So it's just not going to work easily. He said, farmers can store quite a bit of wheat on their farms and they will have to starting a few weeks from now. They're going to start harvesting their wheat crops the end of June, but then September comes and they're going to be harvesting corn and sunflowers. And it just really going to be piling up.

12 (10m 2s):
The solution is, and pause have two open mic alive, and a desk support have to open because that's the only real viable solution to exporting Greg.

1 (10m 14s):
Okay. So Mike Lee is saying, you have to open the ports. Russia is saying absolutely not. You cranes president Volodymyr Zelensky has been begging the west to break this blockade. And I wonder how likely is that wouldn't that mean anyone who gets involved in breaking the blockade is effectively going to war with Russia to

5 (10m 35s):
That's what it seems like. Yeah. And the west, you know, has not been interested in getting directly involved in fighting on land and Ukraine.

13 (10m 43s):
Well, not fight a war against Russia and Ukraine.

5 (10m 47s):
So it seems unlikely that they do it at sea.

1 (10m 52s):
Let's talk about the knock-on effects. Where does Ukraine's food normally go who's in trouble?

5 (10m 59s):
So a lot of it goes to north Africa and the middle east, one of the biggest customers is Egypt. But the thing to remember is the people who are in trouble are everywhere. They're everybody who's already struggling to pay for food, right? So just an example, like a lot of countries like Egypt have programs that deliver cheap subsidized bread to people who need it. And that is the case in lots of places around the world,

1 (11m 34s):
Coming up with Ukraine's grain, stuck at ports, let them, your Putin is using what Russia has. And also what Russia is stealing to form alliances in Africa

14 (12m 5s):
For over 20 years, Google has been helping protect Americans from cybersecurity threats, from turning two-step verification on by default for 150 million people, which adds an additional layer of account security with a single tap to protecting new sites and human rights organizations with project shield. Google is building advanced technologies that raise the bar for the entire industry and help make the whole internet safer for everyone. Learn more@safety.google

15 (12m 34s):
High-quality streaming custom branding, and real-time audience engagement ads polished to your online events. But just because it looks fancy doesn't mean it has to be difficult with blue jeans studio. You can create TV, production level events to engage in, wow, your audience host virtual events in 10 ADP and elevate your brand with customizable features and live streaming options. You can also use ticker banners, name cards, lower third overlays, and more to mimic that on-air TV broadcast view. You can learn more by visiting blue jeans.com/verge

1 (13m 12s):
It's today explained them to will king on June 3rd, a remarkable meeting took place in Sochi Russia. There's a picture. It shows Senegal's president. Who's also head of the African union sitting on one side of a small coffee table. Looking concerned.

16 (13m 28s):
The head of the African union saw this as a crucial way to reduce hunger in Africa, talking with Vladimir Putin

1 (13m 36s):
And Vladimir Putin is on the other side of that table. Smiling a little bit as Mackey saw, lays out the problem.

17 (13m 44s):
There are too many issues, crises, and sanctions, and we need to work together to overcome these two issues so that food namely cereals and fertilizer are removed from the sanctions list.

18 (13m 55s):
The reason that the meeting is so interesting is because each side needed something from the other

1 (13m 60s):
Eddie wax covers food and agriculture for political Europe.

18 (14m 3s):
So Putin really needs allies. He needs allies, obviously not in the west because the west has roundly condemned. His invasion of Ukraine and the west is trying to arm his opponents in Ukraine to the teeth. But so the African nations, many of them are hugely dependent on their food imports.

16 (14m 19s):
Africa imports more than 85% of its food. According to the UN and Russia and Ukraine have long offered data, affordable sources of food and fuel.

18 (14m 28s):
And now this war has really frustrated the supply lines going to Africa,

1 (14m 33s):
Eddie, just to be clear, the foodstuffs, the oil and the wheat that Mackey saw would like to come from Eastern Europe into Africa. That appears to be stuff that Vladimir Putin and Russia are stealing from Ukraine. Is that right?

18 (14m 49s):
Not all of us. I mean, there've been Western officials, us officials, you know, warning now that that Russia is stealing Ukrainian green. This is not to belittle those accusations. But what it's also doing is destroying so much of the production of green, which proceeds that

15 (15m 3s):
North of key Andre corrode code runs the last operative farm within 30 miles. Do you think that they're trying to use hunger as a weapon,

1 (15m 13s):
Which,

15 (15m 13s):
You know, I've seen it with my own eyes. He says they bombed our store houses and when they leave, they steal everything. They often cut the electricity and the water supply to

18 (15m 24s):
Russia has bombing green stores. They've been shelling farms. They've been killing civilians and making the simple logistics of moving stuff around the country and possible, which is obviously terrible for a country, which is realized for so much of its economy on agriculture. Russia is definitely deliberately trying to strangle Ukraine's capacity to actually grow food in the first place. Russia in and of itself is an even bigger grain producer than Ukraine. So it's not like Russia needs Ukraine's green for itself. Russia is an absolutely gigantic exporter of grains and it exports far more fertilizers. Then Ukraine does. And fertilizers, of course, Africa is going to need to grow its own food for the next, you know, year or two, especially if the food affordability crisis gets much worse.

18 (16m 8s):
As many people think it will.

1 (16m 10s):
I imagine African leaders, including Mackey cell have been confronted with the fact that they are buying fertilizer and grain from a country, Russia that is waging a widely condemned war against Ukraine. Is it fair to do this? What have they said?

18 (16m 26s):
I think that their answer would simply be, is it fair for our people to start because of a war in Europe, thousands of miles away, which has ultimately not, not much to do with us. It's very tricky territory for the west.

16 (16m 37s):
Western nations have urged Africa not to buy into Russia's view that the west is at fault for a growing global food crisis.

18 (16m 44s):
Russia is pretending that there are massive sanctions on wheat that it's damaging Russia's capacity to export food around the world. That's just not true. I mean, the real reason that this food crisis stemming from COVID and inflation and the climate change has got so much worse this year is because of the Russia's invasion. So we were moving into a period where many countries around the world will be trying to stay neutral in order to stay fed.

1 (17m 10s):
All right? So let's parse these two different situations. You have, you have Russia, which has its own exports. And then we know for months now some 20 million tons of Ukrainian grain has been sitting there and not getting out into the world who is involved in trying to get this blockade to end or to get around it.

18 (17m 28s):
There are lots of diplomatic efforts going on, but the fact is, you know, from where I'm sitting today, I kind of think a lot of them are doomed. They use plan is almost the last ditch plan that has a border with Ukraine. You know, several countries share a land border with Ukraine. So what the EU is saying is let's ramp up the exports by trains, by trucks and just get out as much green from Ukraine as we can over the land borders. But unfortunately, due to many complicated problems, like the fact that the railways are different sizes between Ukraine and Poland, that's actually not very feasible plan. And many people are saying that basically not even one fifth of the normal export capacity can actually be reached by this plan, which the EU has called rather Trump and least solidarity lanes.

18 (18m 13s):
And that plan also includes kind of trying to get the grain out into Poland and then shifting it north and getting it through the Baltic states like Lithuania, some of those ports on the Baltic sea, and then maybe it can be shipped out across the world. So that's really a long route. It's going to be expensive. It's going to be logistically problematic. And, you know, exports by land have started to slowly ramp up. I just don't think anyone's really that confident that they can reach the levels that it was before and the levels that are needed, especially with another harvest on the way come, you know, next month and come August. And it's going to be millions and millions, more tons of green coming. And then the other big thing, which is making headlines at the moment is this two track diplomatic effort.

18 (18m 53s):
And the moment the UN is spearheading efforts to broker a deal, which would not only help Ukrainian exports gets out faster, but also help Russia export things. You know, I suppose that's probably the way the UN is trying to get Russia on site. So Antonio Gutierrez, the secretary general of the UN has been saying for a long time that there needs to be protected corridors created in the black sea.

19 (19m 14s):
Russia must permit the safe and secured export of grain stored in Ukrainian ports.

18 (19m 19s):
Obviously that would require serious D mining of some of those ports. And then they would have to be an agreement for Russia not to stop bombing any of those ships, especially if they were Ukrainian ones that were using the black seat and of course, Turkey, which obviously has a strong presence in the black sea as well. And there's a NATO member is involved in another set of tools, sort of bilaterally with Russia, but from the reporting I've seen, it doesn't seem like Ukraine is actually involved in those talks, those parallel talks. So it's all very complicated. And I mean, the U S has also sounded very skeptical about this lots of these promises by Russia to guarantee the safe export of Ukrainian green and you know, who can blame the us for being skeptical about that. Because, you know, Russia said they wouldn't invade Ukraine for a long time, and then they did.

18 (20m 3s):
So, you know, I'm not sure that word is really worth much anymore. When I think, you know, most cynically Putin is clearly this meeting that he had with the African union chat shows that people are coming to him. They're fawning, they're falling over themselves to talk about the great historical ties that you know, our countries have had and avoiding calling us a war and using all this language that's acceptable to Putin. So if persons getting these countries in this situation, getting them on their knees to a certain extent, then why would he just suddenly agree to a UN backed deal to reopen the black seat? Because it seems like things are working in his favor at the moment on that front

1 (20m 38s):
Could other countries, let's say Ukraine's food stuffs are stuck. Rushes are only going to go to certain places. If people, as you say fall on their knees before Putin could other countries elsewhere in the world, jump in and start growing wheat and making sunflower oil to make up the difference here.

18 (20m 56s):
Yes, the world's largest food. Exporters' like Brazil, Argentina, Australia, the European union, the U S Canada, you know, India, they can all grow more of specific crops if they have a top-down approach. And the government starts to incentivize their farmers. I mean, here in the EU, for example, they've freed up a couple of million hectares of a previously sort of dormant land in various countries are encouraging farmers to grow more food. But you know, at the moment there isn't actually, it's, it's, it's, it's important to say there isn't actually a food shortage in the world. There is enough food.

1 (21m 29s):
Do you have an understanding of how much time is left to figure out a solution to this? Like how long from today until people in other regions of the world start starving because they can't afford food?

18 (21m 40s):
Well, people are already starving the world food program and the UN food and agriculture organization saying that there's going to be tens of millions. More people pushed into starvation in the coming months of the coming years. This is a swirling nexus of really bad things that are happening. Climate change conditions, droughts in east Africa, poor harvest, potentially on the way in north America. If you're a government that's already coming out of COVID, you've got very little money to spend anyway. And suddenly, you know, food prices are rising. Where do you find the money for, to keep subsidizing food, to keep trying to bring it down. People were dying, you know, in their millions is, is terrible. And that is the worst that can happen.

18 (22m 21s):
But ultimately there could be the spillover effects. And that's what is the most terrifying warnings? That's certain political leaders are trying to give. That's how they think that they're going to get through to people in Europe and in the rich Western in America. And that's by saying, listen, if there is all this instability, and if there is all this starvation, that's going to have political ramifications, just like with the Arab spring, which obviously there, they were food price rises that were happening in the eminent buildup to that

20 (22m 49s):
On top of climate change and rising inequality, the Russian invasion will deepen poverty and increase instability. Thousands of miles from where missiles and shells are causing devastation.

18 (23m 1s):
They're saying there's going to be migration. There's going to be political destabilization. That's going to be unrest. And that is going to end up on Europe shores. And that's going to end up, you know, with refugees, nationalism revolutions. We shouldn't just think about this as a food supply crisis. It's not necessarily because there's a shortage of food, but it's because of the way that the world food system functions. And it relies on a very small cluster of major exporters, like 40 million extra tons of weeds can be exported from the EU, probably in the next coming year, a year and a half. So that's important to say because it's not like there's just not enough food going around.

18 (23m 45s):
It's it's that food prices is getting too high and what's even more important than food. Price is getting too high or what could turn out to be more important than that is the price of fertilizer, which has already been high for so long for many, many months, even predating the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. But because Russia is such a major exporter of fertilizers, it controls a lot of the trade of it worldwide. And the real threat is that if Russia can use this as a weapon, it can say, okay, we're not going to export fertilizer anymore. And all that would do is push up fertilizer prices even more, that would threatened food yields in the coming years. And, you know, then it's just one thing on top of another,

1 (24m 36s):
Our show today was produced by Avishai artsy and edited by Matthew Colette. It was fact-checked by Laura Bullard and Tori Dominguez, and it was engineered by Paul mousey. I'm Noel king it's today explained.