0 (2s):
In case you hadn't checked in, they still haven't solved that problem at the Southern border of the United States. In fact, they've just kind of put everything on hold, including title 42. That's the one that says border agents are allowed to expel asylum seekers without due process because of COVID-19. So there's tons of central Americans waiting on the Mexican side of the border, trying to figure out a way into the United States. The only thing is, while they're waiting, the United States is waving Ukrainians and Ukrainians who come to the United States via the Southern border get in while everyone else has to stay out because of COVID.

0 (43s):
And the Biden administration is getting called out on it

3 (46s):
More than a year of a now bite and Harrison administration. We continue to see this racist notion that black and brown immigrants asylum seekers are bringing the seas across the border.

0 (58s):
That's what's coming up on today, explained

1 (1m 10s):
My name is Gustavo solace and I'm the border reporter for KPBS.

0 (1m 14s):
And I'm Sean Ramez from one of the hosts of today explained, I asked Gustavo what's been different about his border beat lately.

1 (1m 21s):
Well, the unique thing about what's going on at the border right now is that we are seeing a rising number of Ukrainian, Russian and Eastern European migrants to a part of the border. That's usually used to getting migrants from the Western hemisphere. When

0 (1m 36s):
Did that start happening?

1 (1m 37s):
Russians have been coming in small numbers for awhile, like really, really small numbers, but it's really escalated in like the last six months. I think I'm looking at CVP stats right now in December, there were 2,400 encounters, which is a record. Okay.

0 (1m 52s):
And how much has it ticked up since this war began? Do we know?

1 (1m 57s):
And it totally, it has gone up. I've seen it on the ground. I think Mexico reported something like 30,000 Russian nationals in January and February alone. So it's been kind of consistent. It's becoming a more established migration route now,

0 (2m 12s):
And we assume the ones going to Mexico or trying to get to the United States.

1 (2m 15s):
Oh definitely. I would say 99.9% are using Mexico as a way through

0 (2m 21s):
I do Russians and Ukrainians try to enter through Mexico. I mean, it makes sense for central Americans obviously, but, but why Eastern Europeans

1 (2m 31s):
Is right now, very difficult to get a visa travel visa to the U S so it's a lot easier to just fly to Mexico, buy a car, rent a car, drive to the border and cross that way. It's a lot easier to have access to the asylum process. Once you're already in the U S and here in San Ysidro, the port of entry is in us territory. So you're already in the U S before you have your passport checked, then you go through customs. There's actually a physical yellow line that marks the border boundary and what was happening a lot more last year than this year, because of CBPs caught on Russia.

1 (3m 17s):
Nationals would drive from Mexico to the U S and they were kind of hard to spot at first, just because migration from that part of the world, isn't very common here. And just to be Frank they're white. So CDP doesn't really like, or at least back then they wouldn't really stop too much to look at them. They buy use cars, but they're not total junkers. They're, they're nice looking cars. So on the phase, it's like, oh, it's another family from San Diego who went down for the weekend to Mexico. And they would get waved through that yellow line, but not through the actual port of entry. Right. So it's kind of like you get through the first part you wouldn't get through because obviously they didn't have passports or visas to come into the country, but they were technically already in.

1 (4m 3s):
So they would have access to a little bit more safety measures than, than they otherwise would. Now, what has happened? The car situation isn't really working out as much. Hmm.

0 (4m 14s):
So you're saying for these Russians, at least in recent memory, it's easier to drive through the Southern border of the United States because you might get mistaken for an American and just sort of get waived fast. Whereas if you're, browed at driving through that Southern border, you're more likely to get stopped.

1 (4m 32s):
That's basically it. Yeah.

0 (4m 33s):
Okay.

1 (4m 39s):
CBP officers are standing a little bit before that yellow line and kind of checking to see if you have a passport. They're not making you open it and look at it. They just kind of, non-verbally give you a little like, Hey, do you have your ID with you? And you show them through the windshield and then they wave you through. But there's been a couple of episodes of, there was one last year of a Russian nationals in a car, just flooring it and kind of try trying to drive through the port of entry by force. And it got kind of nasty at one point.

0 (5m 10s):
So for those who make it through the border successfully, what happens to them once they get in

1 (5m 15s):
Be the, the normal asylum process, right? You tell the border official that you're afraid to go back to your country. You have a credible fear interview where you kind of establish why you're fleeing for the Russian nationals. A lot of it is a political persecution because they're pro democracy activists, a lot of it's religious or anti LGBTQ treatment. So they kind of, they establish that fear and then they get a case for immigration court and they go through the asylum process.

0 (5m 43s):
So is this like what we hear with central American migrants where they're given humanitarian parole?

1 (5m 49s):
I would say the Russians are getting more similar treatment to what the central Americans are getting in terms of how they go through the asylum. What we're seeing more recently after the war started was Ukrainians are getting a kind of fast-track to humanitarian parole at the moment.

0 (6m 7s):
How does the experience between say Ukrainian crossing? The Southern border of the United States differ from a central American migraine

1 (6m 14s):
Right now it's night and day. I mean, just the fact that Ukrainians can cross and central Americans, Mexicans, Haitians, basically, anyone else can't cross right now? Hmm. Even simultaneously, I mean, just a couple of days ago, I was at the port of entry. They had the advocacy groups had this big two year anniversary of title 42,

4 (6m 37s):
Title 42, title 42,

1 (6m 40s):
Title 42 was first implemented by the Trump administration in March, 2020. It allows officials to use the pandemic as a justification for turning away asylum seekers at the Southern border. And they got a transgender woman from Mexico, a hundred and mother with an epileptic son to try to go request asylum in the U S there were like surrounded by cameras. They had two lawyers with them saying, Hey, they're afraid to stay here. They're victims of crime in Mexico. And they're running from their city of origin. They need protection. They got turned away because of title 42. But like, while that conversation was happening, simultaneously three Ukrainian nationals came to the border.

1 (7m 22s):
They waited maybe 10 seconds and then got waved through. So it's very impossible to ignore the optics of black and brown migrants are getting turned away while the white migrants are getting in to

5 (7m 37s):
May the U S government continues to unlawfully expel individuals and families with absolutely no due process.

1 (7m 46s):
And to be clear, I don't want it to seem like people are pissed off that the Ukrainians are getting in. No people are still unhappy that these people who are fleeing a horrible situation in their country are getting access to, to the due process of asylum. They're just upset that everyone else isn't getting that same treatment

0 (8m 5s):
Or agents at the border justifying, turning around central Americans, Haitians, but waving the Ukrainians in to get asylum.

1 (8m 13s):
Well, I mean, they don't really say much when I, when I asked them, I mean, it really comes down to title 42 that gives border officials absolute discretion over which asylum seekers can get through. It gives them the authority to turn everyone away, but also the discretion to accept people on a case by case basis. So border patrol is a law enforcement agency, right? So it'd be like giving cups, the authority to say, who can and cannot file domestic violence charges. It's just kind of bunkers in terms of how we normally think of our criminal justice system.

0 (8m 47s):
And who's given these cops the order,

1 (8m 49s):
It's a CDC order technically, but they were pressured by it by the white house. So I've asked the CDC a couple of times now, Hey, could you justify this? Like, why is this still in effect after most of the COVID restrictions are lifted? Why are there no, carve-outs like maybe let in vaccinated asylum seekers kind of basic questions you'd want to ask if this is really about public health. Yeah. Their answer is that I should ask the white house. When I asked the white house, their answers that it's a CDC order, and I should ask the CDC.

6 (9m 19s):
I would certainly point you to the CDC. They of course make the decisions and recommendations about maintaining title 42 and keeping an in place it's rooted in preventing the introduction of contagious diseases into the interior of the United States. But they have not made a decision to lift title 42.

1 (9m 37s):
Wow. Like, no, one's really taken ownership of this. The most public kind of guidance. If you can call it that about how CBPs discretion is use came recently from the memo that said Ukrainian nationals should be exempted from title 42. Right now what the memo doesn't say is that that exception could be applied to any asylum seeker, including those for two years, they've been bought out from this asylum process. Maybe Ukrainians can't get COVID-19, maybe you're right. I don't know. But if we're afraid of the pandemic, like just title 42, doesn't make any sense. Like I could cross right now and I'd have to show my passport, but I don't have to show proof of vaccination.

1 (10m 19s):
But these asylum seekers, a lot of them who are vaccinated, no, they can't come because of the pandemic. I don't know, as a reporter, like, right, you want to be neutral. You want to be objective, but I don't know how you can look at title 42 from an objective or neutral standpoint and, and call it justified. And meanwhile, what's going on at the border? Well, a couple of things, the fact that people are getting turned away at the ports of entry is causing them to try to cross between the ports of entry. Right? Because as I said, if you're in the U S if you're physically in the U S you have greater access to some of the safety measures that asylum provide you.

1 (11m 2s):
So people who have tried to enter the country like 40, 50 times through the port of entry, they're getting desperate. They're running out of money. They're looking into hiring coyotes and paying thousands of dollars to go over the mountains or through the desert. There's been reports of people drowning, trying to swim across the ocean as well. It is pushing illegal migrations, more title 42. Also, there is one carve out to title 42, which is that an unaccompanied children are exempt. So if unaccompanied minors from whatever country, they're more often than not getting in, in practice, what that means is that families are self separating at the border. So if you have a mother with a couple of teenagers, G estimate the really difficult choice of sending them and her staying in Mexico, so that at least they have a chance for protection.

1 (11m 52s):
Going back to 2020 after Joe Biden got elected, right? He campaigned on, on restoring the asylum process, having a more humane approach to immigration migrants heard that, and they just kind of sat and waited and said, well, Joe Biden is going to be nicer than Donald Trump. They're still waiting today for, for that to happen.

0 (12m 16s):
What's president Biden going to do in a minute on today, explain Support for today's show comes from thorn. It's like a thorn that you know, is on a stamp or something. But with an E the end thorn is a health and tech company, empowering consumers to take health into their own hands. By providing testing education and science backed supplements. Thorn is elevating. The preventive wellness industry says thorn thorn helps you understand how to further improve your wellbeing with the help of their science backed nutritional supplement says thorn thorn has earned the highest certifications in their industry says Dorn by investing in comprehensive testing, sourcing high quality ingredients and creating a clean manufacturing process that provides solutions for your health says thorn to learn more, visit thorn.com again, that's T H O R N e.com to start your personalized health and wellness journey.

0 (13m 38s):
All right, today's explained we're back. Just heard from Gustavo, Russians and Ukrainians are getting in central Americans are not, and it's because of title 42, which is to say in theory, it's because of COVID-19 of course, people at the Southern border see right through it and feel like this is just plain unfair. And immigration advocates are pushing the Biden administration as our reporters. This was from a press conference on Tuesday afternoon.

8 (14m 3s):
So the policy decision has been made that the war in Ukraine and the displacement of those people is word into the United States than the displacement of millions of people due to earthquakes, hurricanes, and political strife from the San Francisco.

9 (14m 16s):
I think that's a little bit putting words in my mouth. My point was only that, that that's,

8 (14m 22s):
That's,

9 (14m 24s):
That's a little bit putting words in my mouth. All I'm saying is that we have put forward a process to allow a hundred, that to bring a hundred thousand Ukrainian refugees into the country, given the incredible duress

0 (14m 37s):
To further understand the politics of this double standard. We reached out to Steph kite. She covers the immigration policy for Axios. We started with what happens to all the people turned away by title 42.

10 (14m 49s):
Well, under title 42, a few different things can, some are being returned to Mexico, just being kicked right back across the border. And being told to go to various shelters that are set up in Mexico, along the border, and others are being returned to their home countries. Nearly

11 (15m 4s):
Only 4,000 Haitian migrants have been expelled from the U S in the last nine days. The numbers are part of the department of Homeland security, latest deportation blitz. The department is working to remove as many as 30,000 migrants. Many of whom are from Haiti, the deportees were forced to leave the United States without ever having the chance to seek asylum.

0 (15m 25s):
And this is the administration sort of enforcing and relying on a policy that came out of the Trump administration during the pandemic. Is that right?

10 (15m 34s):
Exactly. In the beginning, this was always tied to COVID, but of course, critics of this policy have raised the question of whether this really is about public health or being used more as an immigration policy,

0 (15m 45s):
Right? I mean, there, mass mandates are ending across the country. Regulations are ending across the country, and yet this title 42 thing seems to be alive and well.

10 (15m 57s):
Exactly that by administration continues to use it. It's been used more than a million times by border officials under the Biden administration, but we are certainly keeping an eye on whether the CDC will ultimately lift this policy. It's something that they reassess every 60 days. And the next deadline for that is in early April. So there are lots of conversations internally in the administration and among immigration experts and reporters really watching to see whether we see this extended for another 60 days, or ended in early April

0 (16m 28s):
And how many people are waiting in the wings in the meantime, to try and get to the United States Southern border, or even get in

10 (16m 34s):
Axios actually recently reported that DHS intelligence is looking at about 25,000 migrants who are already waiting and Mexican shelters, just south of the border, waiting for title 42 to end, they're believed to be ready to cross the border pretty much as soon as that policy is ended, and there could be 170,000 migrants total at various places throughout the region who are readying to try to cross the border. Once that policy is lifted.

0 (17m 4s):
And do we get a sense what the administration wants to do once they potentially do lift title 42? Do they want to let tens of thousands of migrants in, do they want to figure out a different way to keep them out? Do we have any idea?

10 (17m 18s):
Well, the sense we have so far, again, according to some recent reporting by Axios is that they are certainly preparing for very large numbers at the border. And most of that preparation is kind of collecting different things that they've done in the past. So this is again, not the first time we've seen a surge at the us Mexico border,

12 (17m 39s):
This latest caravan passing through Mexico. Now numbering in the thousands.

10 (17m 43s):
We saw one in 2014 with mostly migrant kids and families. They

13 (17m 47s):
Came without their parents traveling into Guatemala that Mexico crossing the Rio Grande. And just now arriving in Texas,

10 (17m 55s):
We saw one again in 2019 under president Trump. And we saw one last year under president Biden.

14 (18m 0s):
We're overcrowded. We don't have anywhere to put people, but we have them in our custody and the system is bogged down and there's no place for us to send them because the next level is not open yet.

10 (18m 11s):
So they've had opportunities to kind of look at ways to manage these high numbers. So the administration is certainly looking at, you know, using not only resources within the department of Homeland security, but also resources in other agencies that they can bring in and help control the numbers, make sure that they can provide humane care for migrants. We'll have to see kind of what direction they go as those numbers tick up,

0 (18m 38s):
Has the Ukrainian crisis. And the fact that there are now Ukrainians and more Russians at the Southern border changed the calculus here for the administration or change the sort of optics of what's going on at the Southern border.

10 (18m 51s):
Well, we have seen the administration respond to concerns about Ukrainians by first of all, reportedly stopping deportations to Ukraine and surrounding countries. And they've also directed border officials to consider not putting Ukrainians in title 42 to allow Ukrainians, to apply for asylum in the U S through the normal process. Using some exemptions that are worked into title 42, there is a little bit of leeway for border officials to decide, you know, this person probably should come through the normal process and not be expelled under title 42. They'll go through the normal process through USDA and immigration judges who will look at their claims and decide whether they do prove that they would face persecution in their home country if deported there.

10 (19m 39s):
So, you know, that can be a pretty long process though. And there'll be kind of in that backlog that has been forming over the years with so many people claiming asylum, especially those at the border.

0 (19m 49s):
I just wonder, what is your sense here? I mean, obviously the Trump administration's policies at the Southern board of the United States were wildly controversial, though. It's probably worth noting that a lot of people approved of those policies, Biden's coming in pledging to be a more compassionate president, more friendly to those people who are trying to get in through the Southern border of the United States. But so far, he's sort of been maintaining these Trump policies, but now making this awkward exception for Ukrainian immigrants, though, we're still dealing with the pandemic. Do you get the sense that the Biden ministration has been a little more capable or purposeful in how it deals with the Southern border?

10 (20m 30s):
You know, that's a really difficult question. There's certainly been a lot of criticism for the Biden administration on how they've handled immigration, particularly at the border. And that has come honestly from both sides of the aisle. We've seen Republicans accused, you know, by the end of being too lenient of too welcoming of allowing open borders.

15 (20m 50s):
And he does not care about Americans. He cares more about people who are not from this country. I need the body administration to step up and start providing the safety and security that Texans and Americans deserve.

10 (21m 2s):
They point to reports of overwhelmed border officials, releasing migrants into the country, as an example of there being no order at the border. But at the same time, more progressives and Democrats have very harshly criticized administration, especially for its use of title 42.

16 (21m 18s):
I mean, the reality is they use it as an excuse to keep people out. That's always the case. It has never been about public health.

10 (21m 27s):
They think it's inhumane to be turning back migrants and not allowing them to claim asylum. They point to the fact that a lot of these people are very desperate. They're leaving desperate situations and that they can face harm when they're returned to Mexico or other countries. So it has certainly been a mixed bag when it comes to the Biden administration's handling of immigration. So it's hard to really provide a clear answer on what their goal really is at the border.

0 (21m 51s):
Do you get the sense covering this story that they're just, you're just kind of damned if you do and damned if you don't like no one has the answers that satisfy a broad swath of Americans about the Southern border

10 (22m 3s):
Politically. Absolutely. You know, when it comes to immigration, it really is an issue that has become increasingly polarizing over the past few years, both before president Trump. And of course, during his presidency. And we've seen both the right really attach onto this issue as something that they love to criticize Democrats over criticize, president Biden over, and we are seeing, you know, progressive, continuing to push the ministration to do more, to do more, to do more and nothing ever really seems to be enough. So it's certainly something that we see a lot of criticism over, and it's hard to see how to really navigate this issue. Politically

0 (22m 50s):
Steph kite. You can find her work over@axios.com before her. You heard from Gustavo solace, he covers the border for KPBS in San Diego, fine and support them@kpbs.org. Our program today was produced by Halima Shaw and Hottie <inaudible>. It was edited by Matthew collected me. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard engineered by Paul <inaudible>. It is today. Explain