3 (13s):
President Trump's impeachment trial is around the corner. So is his State of the Union the Iowa caucuses and then this election season finally begins in Earnest by mid-February that one week Mick War we had with Iran might be all but a distant memory for most but not so much for the families of Ukraine International Airlines flight 7 5 2 for them the Fallout from the beef with a Ron is just starting to ramp up. On the show today, we're going to tell the story of what exactly happened as far as we know to this plane. And what's to come for all the countries involved Canada, Ukraine Iran, maybe even the United States.

3 (54s):
Justin Ling is a freelance journalist based in Toronto. He's been covering this story for foreign policy.

2 (1m 3s):
So on January 8th just a little over a week ago amid a lot of the tensions in the Middle East just as Iran was firing a barrage of missiles towards American military bases in Iraq Ukrainian airline's international flight 752 took off from Tehran destined for Kiev and then a lot of the passengers were destined to go on to Toronto. We're learning that a

1 (1m 26s):
Boeing 737 passenger plane has crashed in Iran with a hundred and seventy six passengers. Crew on board those on board included academics returning from holidays newlyweds coming back from their wedding and many many students. They came from Iran Canada, Ukraine Sweden Afghanistan Germany and England 138 of them were supposed to be on a connecting flight to Toronto. It landed this afternoon without those people all of them died in the

2 (1m 54s):
crash. Now, there's a whole bunch of confusion. As this was happening there were reports of a plane crash, but this was happening at the exact same time zone. There were fears that American fighter jets were taking off from the UAE and elsewhere may be destined for a Ron there was a men's confusion about where the missiles were going what fighter jets may have been scrambled. So no one really knew what was happening. It wasn't until we started getting images of this wreckage that as the hours went on it became clear that this commercial flight had gone

3 (2m 24s):
down. So how does a Ron initially react to this plane going down? What do they say?

2 (2m 33s):
So when it becomes clear that in fact a commercial jet had gone down in Iran before anyone really knew fully what had happened

1 (2m 39s):
Iranian media Reports say the aircraft came down due to technical problems. One official said it had been on

2 (2m 46s):
fire, you know, there was not a lot of credibility behind that especially after images started coming out that were initially

1 (2m 52s):
unverified seen a battle wasn't pushy.

2 (2m 58s):
Showing what appeared to be the plane on fire mid-flight before it crashed in a field that generally doesn't seem to happen a lot with engine failure. You don't see a huge

1 (3m 7s):
explosion. I have my suspicions. It was very I don't want to say that because the people have those suspicions also it's a tragic thing when I see that it's a tragic thing, but somebody could have made a mistake on the other side could have could have made a mistake. It was flying it was it was

2 (3m 27s):
Already from the get-go. There was a lot of speculation that this had been a military incident not a mechanical failure.

1 (3m 35s):
Most western leaders are unanimous in their assessment that missiles launched in Iran brought down the doomed plane. But today Tehran is demanding

3 (3m 43s):
proof. So while Iran is denying that this is their work what our Ukraine and Canada saying about it

2 (3m 50s):
publicly Ukraine was quiet Ukraine managed to get investigators to the crash site relatively quickly seemingly quicker than than any other foreign State that's because under International civil aviation is laws. The destination country has special rights when it comes to the investigation. They have a higher standing when it comes to sending investigators to the crash site and Iran dispatched a number of highly trained investigators to look at the crash site and it seems thanks to some reporting now that the investigators learned pretty quickly that this was a shoot down event. They kept that quiet initially. Canada was a little more blunt as Went

1 (4m 28s):
on we have intelligence from multiple sources, including our allies and our own intelligence. The evidence indicates that the plane was shot down by an Iranian surface-to-air missile. This may well have been unintentional

2 (4m 46s):
he opened the door and said listen this may be an accident. We don't know but he said, you know, the intelligence is pretty clear-cut. So it very quickly I think put her on on the defensive as they were still trying to claim that this was a mechanical

3 (4m 57s):
failure. So how is it Ron react to Canada's aggressive

2 (5m 1s):
reaction you had the head of the Iranian civil aviation organization. Saying that they had already investigated in that they completely ruled out the possibility that missiles were to blame for Downing the jet

1 (5m 12s):
families of those killed in the downed plane in Iran are facing competing narratives tonight about what led to the deaths of their loved ones. Iran does not believe what prime minister Justin Trudeau said yesterday about an Iranian missile shooting down the Ukraine Airlines flight it categorically denies

2 (5m 27s):
it but of course, there's video evidence of these missiles heading towards the plane. It's very very clear what had happened based on cell phone imagery. Hurry that was uploaded and that was collected in some cases by the New York Times and others. I think it became pretty clear to Iran that they didn't have a leg to stand on

3 (5m 44s):
does a Ron come out and make an official statement saying hey that was actually us and the sorry we lied

2 (5m 54s):
Iranian State media certainly recognized that it was. In fact, there were Iranian regime that doesn't really happen unless the regime itself acknowledges it Ron now faces. Pressure not just from America, you know, of course with whom it had Rising tensions over the recent weeks, but now it has a problem with Canada with Ukraine with the European Union and suddenly after trying to Garner some International Goodwill. It is now very much regarded as the bad guy. Not only did it shoot down a plane it tried to lie about it. And that is very difficult. I think for the Iranian regime to spin to the European countries with whom it's trying to preserve a nuclear deal on top of that you have Rising.

2 (6m 35s):
scored Insider on itself

1 (6m 42s):
Does anger at the government on the streets in Tehran pockets of protest after Iran's military admitted is accidentally shot down a civilian plane. They shout for their leaders to resign

2 (6m 55s):
there were widespread protests and Iran towards the end of last year largely over the cost of living as the new year donned a lot of those protests petered out partially because of fear, I think internally that they were heading to the precipice of War with America, especially after the targeted killing of General soleimani. I think the Iranian regime sort of managed to Rally some of the population around, you know, it's National cause that went out the window when it became clear that Iran was responsible for shooting down a jet that had dozens of its own citizens on board.

3 (7m 28s):
So what is Iran doing now to own this

2 (7m 32s):
in recent days, you've seen the state start rounding up some people without much detail who they claim or responsible for the shoot-down

1 (7m 40s):
Iran now confirming that arrests have been

2 (7m 43s):
made those involved in the accidental shooting down of that play no details however of

1 (7m 47s):
how many or exactly who has been arrested and this morning Iran's president Rouhani admitting the from the get-go. He thought the crash wasn't

2 (7m 56s):
normal that does seem to be a bit of scapegoating, you know, sort of trying to blame a rogue faction or you know, someone competent military brass inside, but I don't know that the many in the public are A by that I mean fundamentally military structures being what they are. You can't really blame the lowest level for a mistake of this magnitude. Ultimately. Someone higher up is to be held responsible. If not, the military in the state

3 (8m 23s):
itself. Was there any attempt to shift the blame back on the United States?

2 (8m 28s):
Yeah. Absolutely. I mean, you know that was kind of quick retort from Tehran after they recognize they themselves were responsible for Downing this airliner. They sort of put it back on to Washington and said, you know So if not for the hostilities spurred by America, this never would have happened

3 (8m 45s):
and surely Canada isn't too happy with the United States either.

1 (8m 48s):
I think if there were no tensions if there was no escalation recently in the region those Canadians would be right now home with their families. This is something that happens when you have conflict and War innocence bear the brunt of it.

2 (9m 7s):
Canadian citizens were represented more than any others in the International Community on that flight and I think it puts it on Canada to step up and ensure that there is a credible investigation for one but also credible legal process. Now as far as been a mixed bag Iran initially said that the black boxes were damaged and couldn't be read now, they're saying they're damaged but you know, they're still data on them and just recently we've seen them see Ming Lee acquiesce to a request to send the black boxes to France for analysis. So it remains to be seen how to what end they're going to allow military commanders to be interviewed by investigators that will be a huge piece of this puzzle.

2 (9m 50s):
It's not clear whether or not they're going to participate in potentially a process at the international court of justice all of those things down. The line are big questions, that will be very interesting to see how Iran responds

1 (9m 60s):
to.

3 (10m 6s):
more with Justin in a minute on today explained Hey everyone, so I know you know all about Vox podcast because I talk about him all the time you listen to one right now. I know you know about boxes Netflix show explain but Vox is also just getting into the regular like narrative TV game right now. You can find a show called Little America on Apple TV plus only in America Dia odd tax after you see the ticket Place only in America can such a perfect game

1 (10m 55s):
exist Face Forward hamburgers cheeseburgers. Progress bacon chili cheeseburger everything on top of everything only in America.

3 (11m 9s):
Little America comes from the people who brought you the big sick and master of none. It tells 8 extraordinary true stories of immigrants coming to America people from Syria. Uganda Mexico Nigeria. These stories are funny romantic their heartfelt and inspiring and who couldn't use a little bit of that right now Little America is live. Now, you can find it on the Apple TV app or go straight to T V Dot a Dot-com the show is called Little America 8 episodes check them out now.

3 (11m 49s):
Hey, it is Ezra Klein and I want to tell you about an exciting episode because our client show you can listen to now and episode literally years in the making it is a special excerpt of my new book. Why were polarized which is coming out on Tuesday, January 28th, the book explores the structural and psychological Dimensions behind the way American politics has changed and polarized what it has done to our institutions, but importantly what it is doing to us. So I hope you enjoy it and you can listen to it by subscribing to the Ezra Klein show right now for free and your favorite podcast app it to hear a special excerpt from the book. Justin has something like this ever happened before country accidentally shooting down a Plane full of civilians.

2 (12m 36s):
Yeah to unfortunately it's happened several times in 1988 in the iran-iraq war. There were immense tensions in the

3 (12m 45s):
region.

2 (12m 51s):
There was a huge threat to international shipping in the Strait of Hormuz incredibly vital shipping Lane. So the US Navy dispatched several ships to kind of Patrol the waters and to sort of make sure that both states were respecting international shipping at one point in early, July 1988. And oh Ronnie and Airlines flight took off from from a southern Port City and the u.s. Naval ship nearby mistook it for an F-14 fighter jet and fired two missiles and down the flight killing everybody on board mostly Iranian

1 (13m 27s):
citizens and evaluating information available from the Persian Gulf. We believe that the Cruiser USS Vincennes while actively engaged with threatening Iranian surface units and protecting itself from what was concluded to be a hostile aircraft shot down in a rhenium airliner Over The Straits of Hormuz. The US government deeply regrets this incident

2 (13m 52s):
in that moment. A lot of those fears about what happens when a military sort of overreacts came alive all over again the US military expressed their dismay immediately, but they didn't take responsibility

1 (14m 2s):
when the information is available to us that the commanding officer operator rather conducted himself with circumspection and considering the information that was available to him. Followed his authorities and acted with good judgment and it'll vary crying

2 (14m 21s):
period of time, you know, the US military very similar way to what the Iranians did just this month. They sort of making excuses.

1 (14m 29s):
The aircraft was not in. The air Corridor that would normally be in but they are quarter is a limited amount of air space and he was outside of that whether that is a started saying, you

2 (14m 41s):
know, well that the flight was operating at a military frequency the flight started descending quite rapidly in an aggressive maneuver and they started trying to set up justification for the

3 (14m 53s):
shoot-down.

2 (14m 57s):
Now in the months that followed a lot of the other intelligence and radio communications the radar imagery showed that in fact, the flight was transmitting on a civilian frequency as well. It was quite obvious It was a commercial airliner that in fact the flight was ascending not descending and that a lot of the claims that were being made may have been well believed in the moment, but were ultimately

3 (15m 19s):
wrong. It sounds like there is an established playbook for this and that Playbook is whenever you shoot down a plane accidentally the first thing you do. Is lie about it

2 (15m 29s):
not even necessarily lie, but you kind of weaponize the information you have in front of you to sort of skirt responsibility, right? So, you know, I don't really have any doubt that those on the u.s. Ship did believe that an F-14 was heading their way with the intent of sinking the ship that being said, obviously there's more checks that they needed to do to confirm that it was an F-14 and not a civilian

3 (15m 53s):
aircraft. How does the US deal with its accidental? Downing of a civilian aircraft

2 (15m 59s):
it starts proceedings at the UN and in the international court of justice the

1 (16m 4s):
government of the Islamic Republic of Iran considers this a premeditated Act of aggression and a premeditated cold-blooded

2 (16m 14s):
murder and they go to court basically saying America needs to be held responsible for this America all the while. It is expressing sympathy it sort of acknowledges, you know that this was done in air but it never actually apologizes and it never really takes responsibility for what has happened. Ultimately that process begins is a full investigation as a real investigation. That's sort of lays bare a lot of The Facts of this case, but when it gets to cord America basically says we're looking to settle

3 (16m 42s):
the United States and Iran have settled

1 (16m 46s):
Iran's claims against the United States which were filed before the international court of justice

2 (16m 52s):
concerned that sort of begin setting the stage for what the sort of case law will be going forward and I think also reinforces to the world that there needs to be rules in these situations. They can't really be an ad hoc. Basis where Entries are allowed to sort of accept responsibility or deny responsibility based on how they're feeling that

3 (17m 10s):
day. So how much does the US end up paint? So

2 (17m 14s):
ultimately the settlement 1996 works out to about a hundred and thirty 1 million dollars. It's not a huge sum of money, but I think from both sides it was a relatively Fair settlement and a recognition of sort of the damage that has been done to those families. Of course, you can never really replace those who died but it was a substantial sum of money

3 (17m 33s):
and did it create some sort of legal. president even though it was I guess up to these two countries how much money was issued its sort of created

2 (17m 42s):
a benchmark for what a reasonable settlement looks like American never accepted responsibility never apologized and that was something that Iran had always demanded years later when the captain of the ship that was responsible for the Downing was kind of celebrated and recognized as a hero and in the US military Iran was Is absolutely livid all over again. So there is always been this sort of tension where America has never quite owned up to what happened in its entirety and Iran has always been sore about that, but it sort of sets rules on what happens when a military down a civilian airliner and sort of lays the groundwork for what investigations look like when that happens, you know, who's responsible is the and kind of sets at the legal framework to actually bring someone to bring up.

2 (18m 35s):
Foreign Nation to court in an instance

3 (18m 38s):
like this and now ironically Iran's in the position of being the aggressor who might need to pay out to countries like Canada and Ukraine and its own

2 (18m 49s):
citizens. Yeah, that's right. And it sort of turns the tables. It's why it's so difficult to take credibly a lot of attempts by Tehran to sort of throw this back in Americans face because they were the ones clamoring for this credible process that features, you know a Investigation a real court process and a real penalties and ownership and recognition of what had happened something that they seem kind of uncomfortable doing now.

3 (19m 18s):
Who's going to be in the position more so here to ensure that Iran is held accountable. Is it Ukraine? Is it Canada?

2 (19m 29s):
We saw conversation begin around what a legal process should look like when a military Downs a civilian airliner. There's something called the Chicago convention and the Chicago convention sort of governs how commercial airliners are supposed to operate from one country to another it's supposed to be International. For how planes take off and land and fly through other country's airspace. So under the Chicago convention it sort of recognizes different parties for different responsibilities. So as part of the investigation the manufacturer of the aircraft has sort of special status in terms of you leading the investigation though that sort of designed more for mechanical failures the country.

2 (20m 13s):
The flight was destined for has standing to sort of run investigation, but it's delicate also not totally defined. I mean Canada has insisted on sending investigators. It's already sent a couple it's likely to send many more. There was some reticence by Iran seemingly to give them visas. They've now been awarded those visas and they're likely in Iran right now and more likely to show up but I think Canada has to sort of force itself into this. I mean, I don't think Ukraine is necessarily incredibly invested in in the region, you know it has Own sort of concerns to worry about right now the majority of the victims from from abroad we're Canadian.

2 (20m 54s):
So I think it really puts the onus on Canada to step in here. What's more Canada has long press to the Iranian regime for for changes around human rights for changes around Democratic processes. Just sort of try to press it to stop funding terrorist organizations in the region. So I think Canada has already exercised a fair bit of pressure on the Iranian state. Date it has been supportive. They're not a party to the nuclear deal with the European Union and the US which I think again puts it in a good spot to actually use what leverage it has to go after Tehran to do this properly Canada had substantial sanctions in place against Iran up until the last couple of years.

2 (21m 37s):
They've removed those sanctions and I can imagine that putting them back on will be on the table now, so I think Canada is really the best place to hear of course America may see itself being Party to the eventual legal process but obviously given the hostility between those two countries and Iran's assistance that America is somewhat to blame for the Downing. I think it puts them in to awkwardest a spot to really inject themselves into this process in a major

3 (22m 3s):
way. How's the Canadian public reacting is it mad at a Ron is it mad at the United States? I think it's both, you know,

2 (22m 13s):
there is a public perception that America does bear some blame because it created the hostilities that led to this incident at the same time. There's also I think going to be a fair bit of anger at the Iranian state for actually being responsible. And if there's a perception that Iran is dragging its feet when it comes to investigation or the court process or that it is obvious skating or trying to cover up this incident. I think there's going to be you know, a real demand that that are on be held to account but you know the benefit of morning this was devastating especially to the small number of communities where these folks came from most of the victims. Came either from Edmonton Auto or Montreal and you saw the Prime Minister reach out to a lot of the victims families and friends and supporters who showed up on Parliament Hill to hold a candlelight vigil the day after the incident.

2 (23m 3s):
This has been really devastating to a tight-knit community David all Geniuses who came here to

1 (23m 9s):
learn. Taking here to add to the world and now they are not here anymore. She was on the plane last night and she lost her with her two friends. I have no one in Canada be really like my friends are my family's David Ralph am is new today. I lost brother. I lost a sister and it's at You may feel unbearably lonely that you are not alone. Your entire country stands with you tonight tomorrow and in all the years to come we will build that future. They all dreamed of together.

1 (23m 50s):
That's what Canada is.

3 (24m 3s):
But if Canada is successful in holding Iran accountable, it might end up ensuring that the families of Iranians who died on this flight are compensated to

2 (24m 15s):
absolutely and that that really is the flip side of all of this is that if Canada can make this International court of justice process work can put real force and effect behind this. Our convention then that is a real big victory here. You know, this is what this whole process was designed as going back to the 1980s, you know, this was kind of the dream of a lot of people who put this together was to create a legal mechanism to ensure that when something like this happens there is repercussions and that there has to be if not a full apology at least a recognition of responsibility a path to justice for the people who lost their loved ones on these flights and hopefully you just sort of a disincentive. Give for states to shoot first and ask questions

1 (24m 56s):
later.

3 (25m 8s):
Justin Ling is a freelance reporter. He's been writing Lots about flight 7 5 2 for foreign policy. I'm Sean rhombus firm. This is today explained.