0 (1s):
The war in Ukraine is entering a high stakes phase, what everyone's been calling the spring counter offensive President, Vladimir Zelensky wants planes and weapons from the United States badly. But about a month ago, he told the US this counter offensive is gonna happen regardless of whether Ukraine gets its American planes and weapons Shire. Just

1 (19s):
Frankly

2 (20s):
Speaking, it would help us a lot. But we also understand that we can't drag the counter offensive out, which is why we'll start before we receive F sixteens or other bottles.

0 (32s):
The US came around late last month, Ukraine will get F sixteens. And then this week someone attacked Moscow, not with planes, but with drones. These are the first hits of this scale to Russia's capital. Since the war started and a day later yesterday, someone droned a big oil refinery in Southern Russia. Ukraine denies everything but for analysts and reporters covering this war. It seems like this may be the moment when Ukraine strikes back. It's today explained.

4 (1m 1s):
Christy Carlson Romano has made a bunch of content all about the dark side of childhood fame, which makes her unlike a lot of other former child stars. But she's fine with that.

5 (1m 12s):
People are in their trauma. You cannot rush them out of it. When we ask like, you know, why aren't they coming forward? I can't assume to know why. Unfortunately, yeah, I can only sweep my side of the street.

4 (1m 26s):
Christy Carlson Romano on life after Disney this week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast

6 (1m 37s):
Today explain

1 (1m 46s):
Developing news this morning. Russia is reporting that it was struck by drones this morning. Moscow's mayor took to social media to say a drone attack in the cat. Russian capital city caused insignificant damage to several buildings.

8 (2m 3s):
So on Tuesday morning a lot of Russians woke up to the sounds of explosions. Most of them were near Moscow, which is obviously the capital of Russia. And this was a pretty unprecedented attack because residents of Russia capital experience can direct consequences of the war in Ukraine For the very first time,

0 (2m 30s):
MIRI Luk is a foreign correspondent covering this war for the Washington Post. I asked Mary the million rubal question, who did the drone strikes?

8 (2m 39s):
So there are two theories. It's was either Ukraine or Russian actors inside the country who are against Vladi Putin against the war in Ukraine, and kind of in support of Ukraine. Ukraine itself, the deny that they had any involvement in this, but they're kind of being very deliberate in never taking responsibility for anything that happens inside Russian territory. Because there is tension, for example, with the United States because the US doesn't want Ukraine to hit deep inside Russia because that they fear that might anger Vladimir Putin even more. And they also ask them not to use any weapons that were provided by the West to carry out these attacks.

11 (3m 24s):
We have neither encouraged nor enabled the Ukrainians to strike inside of Russia. But the important thing is to understand what Ukrainians are living through every day with the ongoing Russian aggression against their country and our determination to make sure that they have in their hands, along with many other partners around the world, the equipment that they need to defend themselves, to defend their territory, to defend their freedom,

0 (3m 51s):
Who or what was being targeted.

8 (3m 52s):
It's difficult to say what exactly they were targeting because there were obviously some military sites near Moscow that could be a very much AEG, legitimate target. We don't know why they hit the residential buildings because they could be intercepted by Russian anti-air defense systems. And that resulted them, you know, in dropping in residential areas before they reached their destination. But what we do know that a lot of the drones were spotted near areas where the Russian elite lives and resides where the Russian officials, Russian celebrities, the high and mighty

12 (4m 25s):
Most prestigious neighborhood where Vladimir Putin lives, where basically most of his cabinet lives. This is the place where Russia's richest men have their summer houses and all year mansions, there's

8 (4m 38s):
AKA highway where there's a lot of gated communities, a lot of rich people live there and it should be very well protected. But it's, you know, as we've seen now, it's quite difficult to protect a city from smaller targets. You know, I've talked to, you know, many analysts over the months because this is now the first attack, drone attack that happened inside Russia. But essentially they say it is very intricate thing to protect a city from targets as such as drones because they're quite small. Some of these systems in Moscow, they have kind of their kind of cold world style because they are catered to protecting against bombs and like jet bombers and larger things.

8 (5m 20s):
And it's difficult for them to kind of readjust the whole system to protect against drones. And also, we don't know exactly how much systems are still available to be inside Russia because they obviously have to protect the frontline. But again, there's still a possibility that those were Ukraine majors. So again, don't exactly know

0 (5m 42s):
How are Russians responding. And let's start with the top Russian. What has Vladimir Putin said about these attacks?

8 (5m 48s):
He essentially dismissed them and said that the defense systems have worked adequately. Look, he did say that there's work to be done and that the authorities are gonna bolster Moscow defenses.

14 (5m 60s):
The Moscow air defense system worked satisfactorily, however, there is still work to be done to make it better.

8 (6m 6s):
And you know, again, we know that they have been doing that so far and it appears to be that have made enough. But I think his whole tone was, you know, Ukraine is provoking. Russia,

14 (6m 18s):
Kyiv chose the path of intimidation of Russian citizens and attacks on residential buildings. It is a clear sign of terrorist activity.

8 (6m 26s):
He said they're provoking Russia to respond with their action. And we do know Russia has been targeting kyiv in other Ukrainian cities, you know, so many times in recent weeks. His whole idea is to tone it down and make sure the Russians aren't alarmed. I think it was interesting that he even came out and said that because a couple of hours before his kind of video dress that was on national tv, his press secretary said that Putin has no specific plans to address the nation about this. And you know, a couple of hours later he did. And that was interesting because we haven't heard much from Putin recently, especially when it comes to any specific setbacks Russian military has experienced or specific attacks. He was mostly given kind of more vague and kind of wide statements about why Russia is still fighting in Ukraine and tried to kind of bend the nation together.

8 (7m 14s):
So that was quite interesting. And we know that the Russian kind of state TV propaganda has been also echoing the same message, trying to calm people down and say like, look, Liz was expected because there was an attack on the Kremlin a couple of weeks ago. And the whole idea is there, look, don't be alarmed, but I think people are, you know, alarmed to a degree because the war has rested on the fact that there's a level of indifference amongst Russians because they're trying to kind of keep the war at a distance. And that was the promise that Putin gave at the beginning of the war, saying, look, this will not disrupt your ordinary life. Just let me do this and this is the right thing to do. And now this is kind of, that kind of pledge is being broken.

0 (7m 56s):
Yeah. How does, what does that mean for ordinary Russians? We know that they've been misinformed about the war, we know that many Russians support the war, does a thing like this, all of a sudden we've got drones bombing our capitol. Does a thing like this change the minds of regular people?

8 (8m 10s):
At least some people are are asking questions about how did, how did this happen? Because they were sold the idea that this is gonna be a really quick victorious war at the very beginning and now we are 15 months in and instead of, you know, whatever, taking Kiev as a lot of Russian pundits have been seeing at the very beginning, we have drones striking a different capital. The Russian capital,

13 (8m 34s):
I don't even know, it's scary. You sit at home and this thing flies at your window. It's dangerous. That's what I read in the news.

8 (8m 41s):
Just the fact that the military action and the peace is being disrupted so close to home is I guess undermines this narrative that the Kremlin has been trying to sell for many, many months. And you know, we know that Belgrade and other border regions have been living with this for a very long time, but for the majority of the country, that was something that happened so, so far away. And if you don't have relatives or friends there, you might not even really hear about it. But Moscow is a kind of a different story.

0 (9m 7s):
Okay, Russia blames Ukraine, voir Putin says Ukraine is doing this. What does Ukraine say in response? We

15 (9m 13s):
Don't attack Putin or Moscow. We fight on, on our territory. We are defending our religious and cities.

8 (9m 25s):
Well Ukraine is not claiming any direct involvement in this. They have been quite vague in general about claiming any responsibility for attacks that happened within Russian territory because of the tension with the United States as well. The advisor to President Zelensky Milo Pad said, of course Ukraine wants to feel Russians, what the Ukrainians have been feeling for a very long time. But he said Ukraine is not directly connected to these attacks. But he did note an interesting thing about the kind of underground resistant movements within Russia and guerrilla groups. Cuz Ukraine's now saying that Ukraine has provided enormous opportunities for them to show themselves, for these groups to take action against Vladimir Putin.

8 (10m 6s):
And he's kind of hinting that this is they're doing, but of course we don't exactly know

0 (10m 12s):
Mary, for months now we've been hearing that Ukraine is preparing a counter offensive, right? Ukraine has been on the defensive on its back foot, but we've been told that's not the end of things. Is this the counter offensive? Is that what we're seeing now?

8 (10m 27s):
I think the consensus is that this is kind of setting the stage for the counter offensive. They'll, you know, hit targets and try to push the Russian forces back to the kind of pre 2014 borders and so on and so forth. But it could be a part of it because it's not only action on the frontline, but it's also kind of psychological pressure and attack. Because what the Ukraine officials have also said is that this kind of creates this alarmist situation within Russia. And the whole idea is that if Vladimir continues with the war, he'll have to fight it kind of on both fronts. Both in Ukraine and at home with whatever gorilla groups, with people being alarmed by drone attacks.

8 (11m 9s):
So this could be just a way to project force and ensure that the Russian authorities understand that Ukraine has a lot of capabilities that could hurt Russian narratives at home about the warp.

0 (11m 26s):
It's Mary Luna of the Washington Post. Coming up next, what does the counter offensive look like on the front line?

16 (11m 48s):
Fox Creative? This is advertiser content brought to you by WhatsApp.

17 (11m 54s):
I'm Alyssa here in Hollywood trying to get complete strangers to read me their private messages. Now

18 (11m 59s):
Y'all don't wanna see my text messages.

17 (12m 1s):
Can I please read your private text messages? No, no, no,

16 (12m 5s):
No. Clearly most of us wouldn't want a stranger to read our personal messages, but how secure are they? Once we hit send, come

17 (12m 12s):
On. What? You don't trust me?

18 (12m 14s):
No, I don't trust no one.

17 (12m 15s):
Well, how do you know your messages are are being sent privately? Oh, you're right. If you're not using an end-to-end encryption app like WhatsApp, then anyone can be reading your messages.

18 (12m 25s):
Go hacked. So I learned that last name. Okay. Yeah.

17 (12m 28s):
And how did it feel getting a message hacked?

18 (12m 30s):
It was just like such an invasion of privacy. Yeah, honestly. So you need to have two factor authentication. Yes. You need to have those things in place. Like you're saying, the end to end encryption.

16 (12m 41s):
WhatsApp automatically encrypts your personal messages the moment you send them. So they can only be read by the people you send them to. That means no one outside the chat can read your messages. Not even WhatsApp.

17 (12m 51s):
Will you let me read your private text messages? No.

19 (12m 54s):
Why not? They're private. Okay.

17 (12m 56s):
And what if the whole internet could read them?

19 (12m 58s):
Oh my god, I don't know. Could it

17 (12m 60s):
Be over?

19 (13m 0s):
Be game over. Okay.

17 (13m 2s):
Wouldn't it feel better to be messaging through a named encrypted app WhatsApp? It's private, locked up, WhatsApp. You can say whatever you want.

19 (13m 8s):
Oh, is that right?

17 (13m 9s):
How does that sound?

19 (13m 10s):
That sounds great.

16 (13m 11s):
Enter a new era of privacy with automatic end-to-end encryption on all your personal messages. WhatsApp always message privately

17 (13m 18s):
Just because it's Hollywood Boulevard and I'm running at you in heels. What? You don't trust me.

0 (13m 24s):
Today's episode is brought to you by Shopify. If your business can't seamlessly accept all types of payments in person and online, Shopify wants to tell you something really controversial. Your business isn't really a business because getting money in exchange for goods or services is the definition of a business according to Shopify. I don't know, look it up. Shopify is a platform that helps millions of stores sell things online and also in person the old-fashioned way. You can sign up for a $1 a month trial period at shopify.com/explained by going to shopify.com/explained to see if Shopify can take your business to the next level. In case you missed it, shopify.com/explained, it's today explained.

0 (14m 14s):
Luke Harding of the Guardian has been covering the Ukraine War since it started in February last year. Luke's been on with us before I reached him yesterday in London. He is just back from his latest trip to Kyiv.

20 (14m 26s):
I spent a long time on the frontline, talked to various Ukrainian commanders and they say actually counter offensive isn't quite the right word. They, they're talking instead about a sort of rolling spring summer campaign. And I think that campaign absolutely is underway. We've seen lots of what you might call tactical operations on the frontline, vast frontline, about 900 miles long stretching from the east of Ukraine all the way down through the south towards Crimea. And, and that has involved smashing up Russian tanks, armored vehicles bombing using drones, oil refineries, weapon stumps, and so on. And also we've seen most dramatically, as you say, these drone attacks on Moscow, which I think really are, are an attempt to kind of spook and confuse the enemy.

0 (15m 14s):
I'm thinking about the original Russian invasion and the tactics that Russia used, which was like send in all the tanks and then the tanks got bogged down and Ukraine actually ended up in a, in a stronger position than expected. What will the tactics be of Ukraine's counter offensive? Will it look like Russia? Should we expect long lines of tanks, et cetera?

20 (15m 31s):
I think it's gonna be smarter than that. Basically the Russians launched these massive, almost sort of second World war style attacks from Belarus last spring from sweeping up from Crimea as if they were trying to kind of reenact the storming of Berlin. And that that didn't work. The, the attempts careful was abandoned

21 (15m 52s):
This morning, Ukraine's flag back over the trenoble nuclear power plant weeks after the facility was captured by Russian forces and new satellite images show Russia's military abandoning a strategic airport outside of Kyiv, which they captured on the first day of this invasion.

22 (16m 10s):
Ukraine is currently getting more military aid, more in the way of tech from Russian forces who are just abandoning their tanks, abandoning their missile systems than they are from any Western countries.

20 (16m 20s):
And what the Ukrainians have done in Ukrainians, by the way, being kind of vastly outnumbered by Russian soldiers and military equipment is they've been fighting smart. And look, we don't know what precisely the shape the counter offensive will take. It's a, it's a secret. Very, very few people know. I'm, I'm, I'm not even sure that the, the president Biden knows the full details, but what I imagine is it'll be nimbler and it will take place in several, in several sort of battlefields. So it won't just be one push in one direction, it'll be multiple pushes in multiple directions trying to break the line and to push the Russians out.

0 (16m 58s):
Okay. So yes, brings up an important question. Is Ukraine only trying to recapture territory that Russia has taken? Or is Ukraine trying to take parts of Russia? I know that sounds like a deranged question, but we haven't really heard specifics.

20 (17m 13s):
No, I mean, I mean there's no attempt to take parts of Russia proper, the Russian Federation. I mean, there was an incursion recently by Russian sort of, I suppose you could call them separatists or or partisans who are both of Vladimir Putin and trying to overthrow him, who, who mounted an incursion into the Russian Federation and took a few villages briefly in, in Belgar near around the town of Belgard. But that, that wasn't a sort of a substantial attempt to seize Russian territory. What the government of Vladimir Zelensky wants to do is kick the Russians out of all territory that they've occupied, including since 2014. So that means Crimea taking back the crime in Peninsula and it means the key cities in the east of Hans.

20 (17m 53s):
But I, I think to begin with, they were push in the south and try and take back areas of Zappia bl or region and heon region, which was seized by the Russian military in, in the first sort of confusing days of invasion in, in Fbri and March of last year. That's the number one target.

0 (18m 10s):
Why is Ukraine mounting the counter offensive now? It is late May, early June. What's significant about the timing?

20 (18m 17s):
Well, it it's partly the weather. I, I mean the thing is the battle has been going on furiously for well over a year. I mean, the Russians are pounding ki I've just come from every night with hypersonic missiles with, with drones. So this has never been a quiet war. But the fact is that the dry weather makes it easier for the Ukrainians to advance, particularly in the South, which is this vast rolling flat territory of step where if there's mud, if there's winter mud, it's much, much, much harder. And the commanders I I'm in touch with, they're, they're talking about a window of about three or four months from now, beginning of June, true to about the end of September.

20 (18m 57s):
That is the opportunity that Ukraine has to do something.

0 (18m 59s):
You mentioned earlier that President Biden himself might not know the details of the counter offensive. One thing that is notable here is that we have known that a counter offensive is coming because Ukraine has been saying a counter offensive is coming. One of my colleagues who served in the military mentioned D-Day the other day in a meeting and she said, you know, it was the element of surprise obviously that made D-Day work so well. Why didn't Ukraine try for the element of surprise here? Why did it feel it needed to talk about a counter offensive happening?

20 (19m 29s):
I mean, partly because, actually much harder for, for the Ukrainians to surprise the Russians. Now we had two successful Ukrainian counter offensives last autumn, one in Hazon in the south, the city of occupied, city of Hazon, which was recaptured in autumn, which actually Zelensky did talk about, but the other offensive in the northeast in Harkey Oli, which was a complete surprise to everybody and saw the Russians retreating in disarray very quickly. Now this time round, it's not possible to kind of repeat that exercise cuz everybody knows where the Ukrainians need to push, which is Zappia bl they need to kind of break the land corridor connecting the sort of Russian occupation zones in the east of the country, in the Donbas region with Crimea and, and has on in the west of the country.

20 (20m 20s):
So if they can smash through to the sea of Azov, that will be a kind of stunning Ukrainian victory. So we know the the blow is gonna fall there. And I think what the Ukrainians are trying to do is to sort of play psychological games with the Russians to make the Russians twitchy and nervous and fearful and to weaken them.

0 (20m 38s):
Is Russia ready for this?

20 (20m 39s):
Well, I, I mean, yes and no from, from a military point of view, I think they are ready. I mean, they, they've been digging some of the biggest trenches we we've seen on the planet for, for decades. There are vast fortifications all across the South and in Crimea proper

23 (20m 53s):
Furthest from the front line, you have artillery positions, then a trench network for soldiers then what are called dragon's teeth. These are concrete obstacles designed to stop tanks in their tracks.

20 (21m 3s):
We're talking about anti-tank ditches, which are five meters across three meters deep. We're talking about minefields that have been, have been placed to try and stop the Ukrainians from, from rolling forward. But I, I think the problem is, is more, almost more mental than, than military, which is that it's still not clear to me and I think to many Russians, what would Russian victory look like? We don't quite understand what the Russians are, are now trying to do other than to hang on to the territory that, that they've already stolen. And, and there are also issues of kind of morale and training and the fact that Russian casualties in this brutal war in the East around bmu have been, have been so huge, so many young men have, have been lost and perished quite often in kind of disastrous sort of forward movements.

20 (21m 48s):
So I think my sense is the Russian army is more brittle than it seems, and it'll be interesting to see what happens when it's given a kind of mighty push.

0 (22m 3s):
We do know that President Zelensky has been spending a lot of time with leaders of western governments working to convince them to send aid and weapons. How much will, will Western aid Western weapons come into play during this counter offensive?

20 (22m 16s):
I mean, they're already coming into, into play since

24 (22m 19s):
June. The US has shipped Ukraine's 16 high Mars launchers and thousands of rockets, which defense officials say the Ukrainians have used to attack more than 350 Russian command posts, Mo dumps, supply depots, and other high value targets far back from the front lines.

20 (22m 38s):
I mean, when, when I was there recently, the, the Brits, you know, my country started supplying what are called storm shadow missiles. This is essentially long range artillery. And we, we suddenly saw Ukraine hitting targets well beyond the front line in cities like Luhan next to occupied cities, next to the Russian border and just grinding, grinding away at kind of Russian supply networks.

25 (23m 1s):
These guns are making all the difference, says Dimitri, the unit commander, we can now hit the Russians more accurately and further away, which means they can only attack us half or a third as often as before. And

20 (23m 17s):
Here's meanwhile, we have a whole load of new or newish European tanks, leopards and so on, and we've got 12 newly formed Ukrainian brigades with kind of modern Western equipment. Now, Kiev says, give us more, give us more. This is not enough, but, but I think that these, this equipment at least gives Ukraine a reasonable chance of success this summer and it's counter offensive.

0 (23m 44s):
I wonder if we could pull back for a minute and talk about the stakes here. Russia invaded Ukraine, Russia is the aggressor, Russia is the bad guy. What happens if this counter offensive is successful? Does that mean Ukraine has won the war? And what happens if it fails? Does that mean this goes on forever?

20 (24m 3s):
Yes. These are really, really in interesting questions. I mean, I think if the Ukraine is successful, and I would define success as getting back some of the South, at least one major city, maybe Milito or the Porter Buran on the sea of aov, then Ukraine is showing to its own domestic population, but also to its international partners, that it has regained the strategic initiative, that it can win this war, that it can defeat mighty Russia. That all, all of those billions in military and security assistance is money well spent. And, and that actually the, this coalition led by the US of Western democracies, Western partners should continue to support them. But conversely, if the counter offensive for short and, and actually there are, there are very big Ukrainian casualties, the Russians hang on, the Ukrainians liberate a few villages, and that's it.

20 (24m 53s):
Then I think that's politically very problematic for, for ki and maybe even dangerous because there'll be those in perhaps not so much London, but in other countries. Berlin I'm thinking of and, and, and Paris. And also of course, you know, factions elements within the Republican party who are saying, look, the Ukrainians can't win. We need some kind of deal with Vladimir Putin and the Ukrainians gonna have to give up territory in exchange for peace. Now, first of all, that's not gonna work because the Ukrainians think, and I agree with them, that Putin will just, just use any peace deal to have a break and then, and then attack again. But secondly, Ukrainians don't want that. They've, they've lost so many people, so many soldiers, so many civilians, 500 kids killed.

20 (25m 37s):
Mood is vehement and uncompromising and they want, they want victory at any price.

0 (25m 42s):
Luke Harding of the Guardian, he's also the author of Invasion, Russia's Bloody War and Ukraine's Fight for Survival. Luke, thank you so much for taking the time today,

20 (25m 51s):
Noel, thank you very much. Really good to talk to you.

0 (26m 0s):
Today's show was produced by Amanda Lou Ellen. It was edited by Matthew Collette and fact checked by Laura Bullard, who's been with us for two to five years. Michael Rayfield engineered today's show. I'm Noelle King, it's today explained.