0 (0s):
Today's show is brought to you by are you sleeping? A new podcast from mattress firm produced by Vox, creative people are exhausted. We all need more rest. And for so many of us getting the sleep we need is not easy, but what if we could change that? Are you sleeping promises some of the most fascinating, real life sleep stories you've ever heard, maybe listening to someone else's struggle can help you with your own check out. The first episode of are you sleeping and subscribe. Now listen to, are you sleeping wherever you get your podcasts?

0 (43s):
Today. Explain to listeners. Hi, it's Noel. We're doing something a little different today. We have an episode from our friends at the unexplainable podcast. This one is part of a series they're doing on the senses, sight smell, touch. And today we have taste for you. The sixth and final episode of that series is going to air next Wednesday. In the meantime, here we go. Unexplainable, senior producer, Meredith. Hodan not with the story of the mommy mama,

2 (1m 13s):
The science behind how things taste has been an organizing principle in my life. It's led me to chemistry labs and test kitchens and science podcasts, but I've never met anyone as devoted to the science of a single taste as Camico. Ninomiya.

3 (1m 31s):
My nickname is umami mama. Many people don't know about my exact name, but they know mommy, mama

2 (1m 39s):
Camico. The mommy mama is a biochemist and researcher.

3 (1m 43s):
I am always talking about your mommy. Mommy, mommy,

2 (1m 48s):
Umami, that Camico is always talking about has always been a part of food, but it wasn't identified until 1908 that year a Japanese chemist Kiko, NEI Ikeda, distilled pure glutamate salt from big sheets of a seaweed called kombu, a foundational ingredient in Japanese cuisine. The salt monosodium glutamate or MSG was more than just salty, but it wasn't exactly sour or bitter or sweet. Either Ikeda believed that MSG had a totally distinct taste and that it was the basis of deliciousness or my Japanese. And so he called it. Mommy,

3 (2m 28s):
If you eat long, cook, just stew or stopping chickens or biting a slice or the pepperoni and mushroom pizza, you feel a long lasting and very comfort for after taste. And that's umami.

2 (2m 48s):
Umami is like a baseline in a dish. You might not even notice it distracted by the harmonies of sweet and sour and salty and maybe a discordant note of bitter. But mommy is there. It's rich. It's deep. It builds over time. In some ways, umami is the taste of cooking itself. It's the taste of proteins blasted apart through heat or fermentation. And at the heart of umami is one of those protein pieces, glutamate. And while MSG is a pure concentrated form of glutamate glutamate, and that mommy had evokes occur naturally in foods all over the world, cheeses cured, meats, anchovies, tomatoes, mushrooms, seaweeds, they're all high in glutamate.

2 (3m 36s):
And all, all of umami keto was the first to really give him mommy a name and to sell it. He founded Ajinomoto, which became one of the biggest MSG companies in the world. But in the 1970s, Ajinomoto encountered a problem.

3 (3m 54s):
We have a big program about the anti MSG groups around the world, especially in the United States,

2 (4m 3s):
A letter to the editor in the new England journal of medicine suggested that MSG caused weakness and dizziness, chest pain, and all these other vague symptoms. They called Chinese restaurant syndrome.

3 (4m 16s):
People say no MSG. MSG is, but for Harris man sheets, just chemical,

2 (4m 23s):
The sparked a xenophobic panic cross the U S and demonized MSG.

4 (4m 29s):
It's a neurotoxin Chinese

5 (4m 31s):
Food is packed with

4 (4m 31s):
MSG, MSG,

6 (4m 33s):
MSG Laden, Chinese food gives you headaches,

7 (4m 36s):
Migraines, allergies,

4 (4m 37s):
Dizziness, and learning disabilities. I have

8 (4m 39s):
MSP poisoning.

3 (4m 41s):
I know

2 (4m 43s):
Ajinomoto and other MSG companies poured tons of research dollars into proving that their products were safe, private institutions, public government research. It all came back with the same conclusion. MSG is safe.

9 (4m 58s):
Yeah. You know what causes Chinese restaurant syndrome racism,

2 (5m 1s):
But the dark cloud of bad press still hung over the MSG industry. They wanted to change the conversation entirely and so on. Jenna Moto hired comico.

3 (5m 12s):
My mission was to promote studies on glutamate and umami around the world

2 (5m 18s):
Ajinomoto tasks. Can we go with getting the scientific community to accept umami as its own basic taste?

3 (5m 25s):
When I started working for research and study on umami taste, I was not so interested in the umami taste. My boss just say you, you are in charge of this work. And as a kind of my life work,

2 (5m 42s):
Did you know that it was going to be your life work when you were first given that assignment?

3 (5m 47s):
No. And that I rather was always thinking how to quit my job.

2 (5m 58s):
She didn't quit. Instead. She launched a multidisciplinary international decades, long campaign that changed the field of sensory science forever.

3 (6m 8s):
That was my big challenge.

2 (6m 11s):
And in the process of pushing for worldwide recognition of umami, her work, raised more questions. How many tastes are out there waiting for the scientific establishment to recognize, and how do we even define a taste to begin with

11 (6m 30s):
All knowledge must come through the senses, all that we perceive and all of the awareness of our daily existence,

12 (6m 38s):
Light, double rainbow, oh my God, sound touch and tastes.

11 (6m 48s):
What are your thoughts concerning the human senses as meat and wine notice went to the bottom on the census, provide nutriment to the south. All that we perceive, see all of the awareness, all knowledge must come through the sentence. I have an incredible sense of all that we perceive pasting all of the awareness, smelling all knowledge must come through the sentence. Doesn't make sense.

2 (7m 22s):
So what was Kuniko trying to achieve here? What does it mean for something to be a taste for thousands of years? It was a pretty exclusive club.

13 (7m 31s):
Traditionally it's been believed that there are four basic tastes that are built into us.

2 (7m 38s):
This is Gary Beecham, he's the former director of the mono chemical census center. A nonprofit research Institute. Gary's interested in the big four tastes, but also the evolutionary narrative of how each taste helped our ancestors answered the question. What should I put in my mouth? So first off, they're sweet,

13 (7m 58s):
Sweet. That is supposedly a signal for calories and sugar.

2 (8m 3s):
Next up is salty a signal for sodium, which is an essential mineral for life.

13 (8m 8s):
And so animals are built to be able to detect it and to like it, then there's bitter

2 (8m 13s):
Bitter presumably helps us spit out poisons,

13 (8m 16s):
But also many poisons at low levels are medicinal. And so it's been used actually as a way to identify medicines as

2 (8m 23s):
Well. And finally, sour

13 (8m 25s):
Sour is this response to unripe foods. The exact function of that sensory system is not so clear.

2 (8m 33s):
So the big four sweet salty, bitter and sour,

13 (8m 38s):
Those were the ideas that went back thousands of years, the Chinese, the Indians, the Greeks, many, many societies all through the world named those four is the basic part of taste.

2 (8m 52s):
So in the eighties, when Gary started hearing about the campaign to make umami and basic taste, he was intrigued to a point.

13 (8m 59s):
There was certainly a, a lot of skepticism in, in the U S that this was really maybe something that was not a real taste or it wasn't certainly a basic taste of the same way. Sweet sour, salty, bitter is. And maybe it was all a marketing ploy to try to sell. I mean, the acids in particularly MSG,

3 (9m 23s):
My mission is not to sell MSG. My mission is to let people understand umami,

2 (9m 30s):
Can we go knew that scientists were wary of her motives, but she had a clear goal ahead of her.

3 (9m 36s):
The call is to make our network with scientists who are interested in umami research, a glutamate idea now body and the food

2 (9m 46s):
Glutamate is an amino acid building block for proteins. It's important in food science, nutrition, physiology, but it's also a, neuro-transmitter like one of the most abundant chemicals in the brain. So there was a lot of research interest in glutamate across a lot of fields and Camico wanted these researchers to communicate with each other.

3 (10m 7s):
Usually the food scientist make a conversation with food scientist, but it's us very difficult to make a good communication between food scientists and brain scientists who are the scientists and the nutritionist. That's very hard work to make a good communication among all the research areas. Scientist.

2 (10m 34s):
Can we go thought that good communication could get these scientists excited about studying umami as a taste? And that excitement was the key to her plan.

14 (10m 43s):
Like any other part of, of human culture. Science has fads.

2 (10m 48s):
Sarah Tracy is a historian of science and she has a book coming out all about the history of umami.

14 (10m 53s):
When we talked about the brain and the nineties and the human genome project. And then it was all about the gut and the odds, you know, so I think umami is an interesting example of a, a very conscious and careful and investment and the creation or fostering of scientific excitement.

2 (11m 12s):
The idea of whether umami was a taste, had the potential to be the next cool thing to study. Like how do you even define a new taste? There hadn't been one for thousands of years.

14 (11m 23s):
We've had the basic four for millennia. It takes a lot of PR money. It takes a lot of research dollars. It takes a lot of impetus to change our ideas about how to define the body.

2 (11m 37s):
And so Camico with the backing of Ajinomoto began organizing international symposiums on mommy taste.

13 (11m 46s):
They were very good meetings in the sense that they, they brought the very best people who were doing paced work in the world,

2 (11m 52s):
Neurologists and nutritionists, molecular biologists, and medical doctors, all studying glutamate and all brought together by Kuniko to discuss whether umami was a basic taste.

13 (12m 5s):
What they were cleverly doing is trying to get people interested in doing research in this area. And that was in retrospect, a good thing, although it could have been a dangerous thing, of course

2 (12m 16s):
Dangerous because industry science is kind of suspect companies often get the results that help them tell the stories that they want to sell.

13 (12m 25s):
There was no question that there was funding coming from commercial organizations, which had an ulterior motive you could say. And I think that that led people to actually lean over the other direction to try to make sure that the research they were doing was not influenced by anything like that

2 (12m 43s):
Throughout the eighties and nineties. Can we go organize these umami taste conferences, but she kept coming up against a problem. The translation from glutamate to umami,

3 (12m 53s):
They, in that time, the researchers themselves don't know about the taste to quality or umami. The scientist known about the glutamate in the brain, glutamate in the body and glutamate in foods, but say, don't know about what exactly umami is.

2 (13m 13s):
Brain scientists were shocked that glutamate, that they knew as a neurotransmitter wasn't food at all, people kept calling it umami, not umami. And because the quality of umami was so subtle that building baseline under the flash and flair of other tastes, can we go put together a tasting sessions for these scientists? She believed that they couldn't fully debate whether umami was a taste. If they didn't have the personal experience and vocabulary to talk about it.

3 (13m 43s):
That's why I think that tasting is the most important part to understand that taste quality of the money, because we are talking about taste of umami. So soon as the symposium, I try to make her opportunity to have, or tasting session about umami taste and how to find umami in the tomato or chairs. And I gradually understand what umami is.

13 (14m 14s):
There was a, not just a taste, but a feel. It was almost like it was thick and it was, it was mouthwatering.

2 (14m 24s):
It was delicious. Gary and other scientists understood that mommy was a unique sensory experience, but did that make it a taste? Scientist, scoured, everything. They knew about taste, how chemicals in food interact with the tongue, how the tongue sends signals to the brain, how the brain processes, those signals. They looked at animal models to see if other species could taste amino acids like glutamate. And in Gary's mind, if mommy was a taste, it probably had some evolutionary explanation. So he wondered, could umami be a taste signal for proteins, just like sweetness was thought to signal calories and salty sodium.

2 (15m 5s):
So he worked with malnourished infants to see if they were particularly drawn to the taste of glutamate. And he found that all the infancy studied like the taste of MSG everywhere. They looked there were promising clues, but there's no clear cut answers. No way to definitively say that umami was a taste in large part, because taste is just really hard to study.

15 (15m 28s):
It's the sense we understand the least because it is so incredibly difficult to isolate.

2 (15m 36s):
This is Camilla on bill Anderson. She's a neuroscientist at international flavors and fragrances, a corporation that makes ingredients for processed foods and beverages.

15 (15m 46s):
So think of vanilla. Think of banana thing of orange. All those are what you would perceive a smell.

2 (15m 53s):
A lot of what we think we're tasting is actually a smelling food from inside our mouths, take a cookie. For instance, you smell the vanilla and the chocolate chips and the butter wafting up from the back of your mouth, into your nose. As you eat it

15 (16m 9s):
One good way to actually differentiate between smell and taste is to pinch your nose. If you pinch your nose, you wouldn't be able to smell. And so if you put, let's say a bit of cinnamon in your mouth, you pinch your nose, then all you would be detecting is a little bit of bitterness. That's the taste. And when you, then unpinched your nose, you would perceive the cinnamon. So that's really the smell.

2 (16m 36s):
And even when you take the nose out of the equation entirely, and just focus on sensing chemicals in the mouth, the borders of taste are still fuzzy. Like take spiciness is the spiciness, the taste. It's a molecule capsaicin that you're sensing in the mouth, but it's actually activating pain and heat receptors. So it's considered more of a kind of touch. The same goes for astringency menthol and qualities like slipperiness. Those are all mouth feel, not taste, but by the nineties, researchers were pretty sure that umami wasn't an aroma or a touch, though. It did have an interesting mouthfeel and repeated tests showed that glutamate kept triggering a unique response in the brain, totally distinct from the big four.

2 (17m 24s):
And yet scientists like Gary wanted more. They wanted to know how mommy worked.

13 (17m 29s):
You really wanted a, a much more compelling story as to how it, how it's different. What's the mechanism differentiating it.

2 (17m 38s):
And so the conversation of whether umami was a basic taste pivoted to molecular biology, This was around the late nineties and molecular biology was all the rage. The human genome project was a multi-billion dollar international collaboration to map out all the billions of DNA base pairs in the human genome. The thought was that this would unlock the blueprint for the human body and usher in a whole new age of genetic understanding. And in 2000 scientists started using an early draft of the human genome project to zero in on taste receptors. Taste receptor is really where the rubber meets the road.

2 (18m 19s):
In terms of taste like looking at your tongue in the bathroom mirror, you'll see all sorts of bumps and grooves. And those are a little organs called papilla. Zooming in the papilla are packed with taste buds and each taste. Bud has like 50 to a hundred taste cells zooming in even further on the tip of each of those cells is a taste receptor, carefully, folded little protein that interacts with food on a molecular level. And so researchers all around the world were racing to find the genes that coded these receptors for all the tastes

13 (18m 55s):
All at once. These receptors were identified

2 (18m 58s):
First, a bitter receptor was identified and then a sweet receptor,

13 (19m 2s):
2000 2001, 2002. That was the golden age of discovery. And it was very, very exciting time

2 (19m 11s):
During this taste receptor gold rush. Can we go ahead? One question. What

3 (19m 15s):
If they still receptor of umami? So we try to promote the research in the United States to talk more about the taste receptor or because with the mate

13 (19m 28s):
And remarkably, there was a separate one for glutamate,

2 (19m 34s):
Right there built into our tongues was concrete evidence that mommy was a taste.

13 (19m 39s):
The fact that there was a receptor for this really convinced a lot of people that if nature has given us this sensory apparatus to detect it, it must be real. And it must be important.

2 (19m 53s):
<inaudible> this was the culmination of years and years of work, organizing conferences doing tastes demonstrations, promoting research scientists were looking for glutamate receptors because Camico convinced them that there was something to look for.

3 (20m 9s):
That was a big turning point

2 (20m 13s):
Where you excited when you heard the news that they had discovered it.

3 (20m 18s):
Yes. Yes, of course he asked that was a very apple making research results. Everyone believed that mommy is one of the basic paste.

2 (20m 34s):
Umami was accepted around the world as basic taste number five, but in pushing the scientific understanding of taste beyond the big four, mommy opened up a whole new world. How many tastes could be out there? Are there just five basic tastes now? Or could there be way more

16 (20m 53s):
Now the race is on to see if there's a six taste or a seventh or a thousand tests

2 (20m 57s):
Coming up after the break,

0 (21m 8s):
Are you sleeping? It's a valid question. And it's also a new podcast from mattress firm produced with Vox creative. These days. A lot of people are exhausted. We need more rest. There is so much going on right now. And many of us are up at all hours of the night. For me, sleep is evasive. Evasive. Yeah, not a great sleeper. I used to have a job where I woke up at two 30 in the morning. That was months ago. I'm still not really back on track. Are you sleeping is a podcast that pulls back the covers on all of it. Join host, Kate Berlanti, as she explores incredible real life sleep stories with experts.

0 (21m 49s):
In one episode, we learn why Kate is obsessed with sleep and why maybe we should be to what happens to our bodies and minds. We don't get enough. Plus how our fixation on getting the perfect amount of sleep might be robbing us of the rest. We actually need check out. Are you sleeping and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts? Are you sleeping? Listen now

17 (22m 18s):
Screaming, salty, sweet and oaky nuttiness. We detect that,

18 (22m 22s):
Oh, I am detecting nuttiness.

2 (22m 25s):
It's unexplainable. We're back at Meredith HOD not. And after comi goes decades long campaign mommy was accepted as a basic taste. When researchers found a receptor for glutamate, this blew up the millennial old conception of the big four sweet salty, bitter and sour and receptors became a new benchmark for the definition of a basic taste. But the taste receptor discoveries didn't stop with glutamate. Over the last 20 years, scientists have found evidence for taste receptors that detect fat starch, calcium, even metals like iron and scientists started to claim that some of these might also be fundamental, basic tastes.

19 (23m 6s):
There could be a sixth, the basic taste and a seventh and an eighth,

2 (23m 11s):
But by focusing on receptors, are they jumping the gun? I mean, sure. Finding a glutamate receptor was the critical piece of evidence that tipped the scientific community towards accepting umami as a basic taste. But that came after decades of sensory, perceptual and neurological data, not to mention over a century of Japanese food traditions. This new crop of taste candidates are starting from the receptor and working backwards. They still need to build up all that sensory and neurological research. So let's focus one of the most popular candidates, fat

20 (23m 50s):
Your attention, please. There is a new

21 (23m 53s):
Researchers. Now say that fat should be considered the sixth taste. It's not the first

2 (24m 0s):
In 2015. Researchers started pushing for fat to be the six taste because they had found a taste receptor for fatty acids, the molecular fragments of fat, but they still need to prove that those receptors send a conscious signal to the brain just like scientists had done for umami.

15 (24m 18s):
The thing that's still very much under investigation is whether that signal from the taste receptor is sent to the brain. Like whether we actually use the information,

2 (24m 28s):
This is Camila on bill Anderson again.

15 (24m 31s):
So that's where the kind of science I do comes into play, where we actually look at the brain and look at, do we see an Euro activation to this taste?

2 (24m 41s):
All tastes is hard to isolate from the other senses, but fat is particularly tricky. That is an incredible solvent. So it's this great vehicle for aromatic compounds, the smell part of flavor. I mean, just think about garlic infused olive oil. That also plays a fundamental role in the texture. The touch of foods chocolate is so luxurious because cocoa butter melts just around body temperature. So it literally melts in your mouth. It

22 (25m 9s):
Melts in the mouth,

2 (25m 10s):
Crispy, crunchy, tender, crumbly, smooth, creamy, luscious that is responsible for all of these touch parts of flavor.

15 (25m 21s):
We know that we smell fat and we know that we sense the texture of fat. But the next question is whether we also taste fat

2 (25m 30s):
To test, taste and taste receptors and isolation Miller brings up some pretty wild experiments. Participants had to sit with their heads completely, still

15 (25m 39s):
Striving, then mung to a headrest.

2 (25m 41s):
They wore these EEG caps with sensors all over them to measure their brain activity. And they were told to hold their breath

15 (25m 47s):
So they couldn't smell.

2 (25m 49s):
And then they stuck out their tongues

15 (25m 51s):
And we would pump three types of milk on the tongues of people. So that would be either skim milk, whole milk or cream,

2 (25m 59s):
But they couldn't swallow or close their mouths.

15 (26m 2s):
The taste solution would just sort of drip off into a ball standing on underneath.

2 (26m 7s):
So you need a bib in this setup as well.

15 (26m 9s):
I did actually use one.

2 (26m 12s):
And after all of this famila did find some interesting brain signals.

15 (26m 16s):
What we saw was that we were able to discriminate the, the, the response, the brain responds to the skim milk and the cream. There was something we were registering that was different between these two.

2 (26m 29s):
So some promising evidence of a signal of fat taste being processed in the brain,

5 (26m 34s):
But what exactly is going on? We're not sure.

2 (26m 37s):
Paul Breslin is a scientist at Rutgers university. He also works at the mono center and he studies taste pathways. The path a receptor signal takes from the tongue to the brain

5 (26m 48s):
And 20 years from now, we'll probably have come to some kind of a consensus on it, but we're not there yet.

2 (26m 54s):
All of the potential six tastes are in this position. Calcium starch, metallic labs around the world are trying to build the narrative, build the case of whether these should be considered tastes.

5 (27m 5s):
It's intriguing to say like, we can taste fat or we can taste potassium, or we can taste calcium, or maybe we can taste water. Those are all interesting stories. But collectively, what is taste is really the, the more interesting question,

2 (27m 19s):
What his tastes well, our depth of understanding has certainly grown over the past 40 years. And because there was a concentrated research effort to dig down into the molecular machinery of taste. We've learned a lot about how our whole body interacts with the chemical world around us, because one scientist started finding taste receptors in the mouth. They started finding them all over the body, in the lungs

5 (27m 45s):
And the pancreas

2 (27m 47s):
On the skin

5 (27m 47s):
And the intestine

2 (27m 49s):
In the nose

5 (27m 49s):
And the brain. All of these places are using the exact same machinery, the same receptors.

2 (27m 56s):
These receptors aren't hooked into our conscious perception of taste.

5 (27m 60s):
Well, thankfully you can't taste the inside of your small intestine with the taste receptors there.

2 (28m 5s):
Think of it. Like your pancreas is constantly tasting your blood to see how much insulin to produce these taste receptors are tools.

5 (28m 13s):
So if you think of all the different ways, you can use a hammer, you can use it to hammer something into place. You can use it to remove something. You can use it to pull nails. You can use it to put nails in it's the same receptor in every single one of those places, but in each place that serves a different purpose.

2 (28m 32s):
One scientist told me that if we had found these receptors on the pancreas, we would have called them pancreatic receptors and would have been shocked to find them on our tongues.

5 (28m 42s):
The fundamental issue, the fundamental question really becomes what is the totality of the space? What is everything that we can experience in that chemo, sensory world, and how do these things fit together? What is their relationship to each other?

2 (28m 57s):
It's a bit like the debate around whether or not Pluto is a planet. Pluto is killed because if Pluto is a planet, then all these other moons and dwarf planets like series, they could be planets too. And some scientists have argued that we should have like over 150 planets in our solar system of taste, the big four salty, sweet bitter and sour. They might be like gas giants, the big guys, right? Whereas mommies, much more subtle. So maybe it's more like a little small Rocky planet, like earth or Venus, but moving out, where do we draw the line? And ultimately doesn't really matter.

2 (29m 38s):
Pluto is still out there still spinning around the sun, no matter how we choose to categorize it. And for taste wherever we draw the line, there's still so much to explore.

5 (29m 50s):
What is that spatial galaxy or universe of taste?

2 (29m 56s):
So our scientific definition of taste is growing and evolving, but tastes are also culturally defined. The general public might not care about the intricacies of the molecular biology, the glutamate, the receptors, but now they care about umami.

14 (30m 19s):
You know, it's exciting. I understand. I get it. Mommy is cool.

2 (30m 25s):
This is Sarah Tracy. Again, the science historian

14 (30m 29s):
To me, I, I don't think that we would have umami without that industry influence, but I mean, this is also the way so much of our, our understanding of taste and smell work comes to us by virtue of corporate research

2 (30m 44s):
Taste is big business. It's an industry. And a lot of what we know about sensory science has its roots in the modern industrial food system. Our current understanding of umami as a taste was part of a larger campaign to change the conversation about MSG. And it worked

14 (31m 1s):
Without a name for the thing. How can you think with it or live with it, our names and our language do in a way for our reality. And so whether we call it a mommy or not has real effects in the world, it's certainly a fantastic branding proposition.

2 (31m 18s):
And that brand was painstakingly built over decades first within the scientific community. And then beyond

14 (31m 27s):
An enormous amount of science communication and promotion went into popularizing Emami among chefs and food writers and tastemakers.

3 (31m 37s):
So the company, or do you know what the company's policy is? Science first, then communication based on science

2 (31m 47s):
After umami was widely accepted as a basic taste, can we go shifted the umami campaign to the culinary world?

3 (31m 55s):
And I think that umami is a taste. So the taste is very important for chefs to create the good meals and the excellent dishes that why I draw. I decided to make a conversation with chefs, top chefs,

2 (32m 13s):
When Camico says top chefs, she means bell most famous, the most influential chefs in the world at the time.

3 (32m 22s):
And because Tom sheriffs has our beat boys and the, maybe as a young chefs, I try to follow the top chefs. So that, that was a very, very challenging for me. That was very hard work.

2 (32m 38s):
The popularity of Japanese exploded at the same time that food science and molecular gastronomy to cold of the culinary imagination and suddenly mommy was everywhere.

3 (32m 50s):
Mommy is London with a very fashionable laws in the United States and the people are very interested in umami. So it's a very good opportunity for us to promote more about umami,

2 (33m 5s):
Where we draw the line on how to define a taste, maybe kind of arbitrary, but it has real life effects. Ultimately we live in a different scientific and culinary world because of the umami tastes campaign. And the mommy mama.

3 (33m 22s):
My nickname was given by Nobu Nobu Matsuhisa is a very famous Japanese chef around the world. And when I first met him, he told me, don't come to me. You will start talking about MSG. And I knew I use MSG because I have a many restaurant in the United States and there are so many people hate MSG. Don't waste your time. I every month, visit him to talk about mommy. And then he grabbed her and the stand, what I want to do. And after that, he started talking about the mommy by himself and he introduced me to the guest in the restaurant.

3 (34m 11s):
She is world famous umami mama. I was so summarized. What did he

10 (34m 20s):
Say?

23 (34m 37s):
This is the fourth episode of our making sense series next week site and the limitations of the mind's eye.

24 (34m 44s):
And, you know, I'd always read about things like picturing your loved one's face and, and this and that. And I was like, why can't I picture anyone's face?

23 (34m 52s):
This episode was reported and produced by Meredith Hoddinott. It was edited by Catherine Wells, nom, Hassenfeld, Brian Resnick, with help from men and women and bird Pinkerton, real team effort, music by Noah Christian ILO handled the Nixon and sound design research, and fact checking by me, Richard Sima and Tori Dominguez is our audio fellow special. Thanks to Nancy Rawson, Johnny drain, Eliza Barclay, Nicola Twilley and Emily Hanselman. If he wants to learn more about the history of a mommy, keep an eye out for Sarah Tracey's upcoming book delicious, the history of monosodium, glutamate, umami, and the dysphoric supply.

23 (35m 36s):
And the awesome umami song is called umami by noise Shanae, to read more about some of the topics we cover on our show, or to find episode transcripts, check out our site at vox.com/unexplainable. And if you have thoughts about the show, you can always email us@unexplainableatbox.com or you could leave us a review or a rating, which we would love as well, unexplainable as part of the Vox media podcast network. And we will see you next week for episode five of making sense.

0 (36m 21s):
Thanks to, are you sleeping for sponsoring today's show? It's a new podcast from mattress firm produced by Vox creative. We all sleep differently. Sleep affects the way we show up in the world. But what if we're not getting enough? In episode one, host Kate Berlin explores the world of sleep with help from clinical and cultural experts. It turns out a lot of what we think we know about rest might be wrong. Listen to, are you sleeping wherever you get your podcasts and don't forget to subscribe. Are you sleeping? Listen now.