2 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from the Michelle Obama podcast on Spotify now and just Spotify nowhere else. Don't go looking for it. Wherever you listen to your podcasts. It's not going to work listen to it on Spotify Have you listened yet? Why not? Michelle Obama wants to hang out with you. That's cool. Maybe you should listen Maybe if the kids are screaming just put on the Michelle Obama podcast and have Michelle Obama babysit the kids. She's gonna talk to Barack. She's gonna talk to her brother Craig. She's going to talk to Conan O'Brien Valerie Jarrett, Misha. Well, Norris, dr. Sharon Malone episodes focus on the relationships that shape us and you can listen now at Spotify.com, Michelle Obama.

4 (52s):
The Republican National Convention this week did not look or sound much like the Democratic National Convention of last week. No Bruce Springsteen some Leonard Cohen mostly

2 (1m 3s):
patriotic scoring that sounded like it was lifted from Saving

4 (1m 7s):
Private Ryan. It wasn't Zoom

2 (1m 17s):
or video conference heavy instead. There were lots of people getting together in person. But beyond the different sound or look this convention at times felt like it was set on a different planet. There were lies. So blatant you had to laugh

4 (1m 31s):
and his deep understanding of our system of government and the strength of American values is the man we can trust to preserve and even improve our way of life.

2 (1m 42s):
Mr. Prem parison. So audacious you had to how here at Abraham Lincoln's boyhood

4 (1m 47s):
home a young man would grow up to become the first Republican president of the United States. And today. Another Republican president is fighting to preserve that same Noble Legacy of freedom, and it felt

2 (2m 0s):
like every fourth human in existence was a trump like there were so many Trump's on stage. You could take one home with you as a party favor. There was Tiffany Eric Donald Jr. Milania. Ivanka Renaldo, Kareem Luciana and Thursday night. They were all on stage on the south lawn of the White House a fair share of this convention was filmed at 1600 Pennsylvania, which hasn't been done in modern history and is very much illegal, but we'll get to all that soon enough with Ellen Olson who was once again watching it for Vox Ella Where Do We Begin like last week you predicted. This could be a bit of a mess. Did it live up to your expectations?

3 (2m 40s):
Not entirely I In I had heard from some sources that logistically there were still a lot of things kind of falling into place at the last minute a lot of the speaking got moved to Washington DC at the last minute rather than Charlotte North Carolina where some of the kind of business of the convention happened, but as far as Republicans being on message and a cohesive message coming out of the RNC, they definitely pulled that off,

2 (3m 11s):
right? Right and it felt like last week. We got you know Obama saying this is a strange convention because these are strange times. This isn't normal because life isn't normal right now, but the Republican message seemed to be like life is kind of normal right now and they kind of had a more normal convention. There was less of an ambition to make a sort of Zoom heavy thing and because of that they were actually like fewer production snags. It kind of went a little smoother. I thought

3 (3m 38s):
yeah, I mean it was sort of the the traditional like speaker. Non after speaker a few people zoomed in but for the most part people kind of streamed in and out of the Andrew Mellon Auditorium, you know this beautiful kind of Concert Hall in Washington DC. There were a lot of American flags and then for the grand finale Ivanka Trump and President Donald Trump spoke from the White

4 (4m 1s):
House lawn, and there was a huge finale of fireworks spelling out Trump 2020 over the Washington Monument. Right, I could hear it from from my spot and do see it was like midnight. I felt bad for all the parents with small children

3 (4m 19s):
and everybody who has dog.

4 (4m 21s):
Oh, right the dogs. Yeah, how could I forget?

2 (4m 29s):
And speaking of things that upset the dogs. There was a very loud speech on night one from Donald Trump Juniors girlfriend that that may have caused some some canine conniptions.

3 (4m 39s):
Yes. Yes, so night one featured, you know, a lot of speakers including Kimberly Guilfoyle with a very loud speech

4 (4m 50s):
ladies and gentlemen leaders and Fighters for freedom and liberty and the American dream The Best Is Yet To Come.

3 (5m 2s):
She I think people were comparing that speech to Dwight schrutes speech from the

4 (5m 7s):
office salesman of Northeastern, Pennsylvania. I ask you once more rise and be worthy of this historical our they want to steal your Liberty your freedom. They want to control what you see and

1 (5m 23s):
think and believe so that they can control how you live.

3 (5m 29s):
The emphasis there was the economy has been good under President Trump. There wasn't really much mention of coronavirus, but the big seam over and over again that started out on Monday night and really continued throughout the rest of the four nights was that President Trump is going to bring back Law and Order to a lawless Nation.

4 (6m 1s):
It felt like

2 (6m 2s):
night one was sort of the the pilot for the rest of the RNC and it really got underway on night to when the president sort of settled into a series of TV

3 (6m 14s):
stunts. Yeah, I mean the other big theme out of this convention was the White House was being you. Used again, and again essentially as a political prop so night to Trump did two things that generated a lot of headlines that weren't necessarily positive one. He did a presidential pardoning ceremony at the White

4 (6m 37s):
House. So now I'd like to invite John's wife Jamie to join us as I grant John. I'm not sure, you know this a full pardon

3 (6m 47s):
and the second thing that he did was a naturalization

4 (6m 50s):
ceremony you follow the rules. Obey, the laws you learned your history embraced our values and proved yourselves to be men and women of the highest Integrity.

3 (7m 2s):
So one of the things that we learned after was that one of the participants of the naturalization ceremony, like didn't even know that it was being televised and broadcast for the purposes of the RMC. So, I mean there was literally like people who are participating who were becoming citizens were essentially used as political props without their knowledge or consent. And as I watched

2 (7m 24s):
that I wondered has this ever happened before on live

3 (7m 28s):
TV. Yeah. This is an unprecedented thing the use of the White House and it's worth noting. You know, the thing that we're talking about being violated here is the Hatch Act which basically prohibits federal employees from engaging in overtly political activities like a party convention. So the issue here isn't so much that like Trump is doing it himself because the president sort of has immunity from the But I mean there were members of his administration like, you know, a member of the Department of Homeland Security who is participating in this naturalization ceremony, you know Secretary of State Mike Pompeo who gave a speech from Jerusalem later

2 (8m 5s):
the issue here being that we the taxpayers pay for these employees to do work and instead they're doing work to get someone elected. It's a very overtly political work that they were engaging in this week

3 (8m 21s):
rate. This is literally like the Republican party's convention happening in a space that technically is supposed to be for all of the people whether you're a Democrat independent or Republican.

2 (8m 46s):
As the week went on it became very clear that they were trying to court Women Voters by bringing out every woman Donald Trump had ever been nice to to portray him as some kind of arch feminist.

3 (8m 59s):
Yeah grab him by the pussy Donald Trump is this pussy hat-wearing feminist

2 (9m 6s):
and they sort of did the same thing with black voters right in between segments where Donald Trump would call covid the China virus. They brought out a few black women and a lot of black men many of whom seem to be former athletes to say Donald Trump is not racist.

3 (9m 21s):
Yeah. I mean this this was I think one of the big points of the convention that kind of illustrates the Trump campaigns larger strategy in 2020 last night we heard I'm a speaker who works in the white house as one of the presidents, you know, Deputy assistance

1 (9m 37s):
every issue

4 (9m 38s):
important to Black communities has been a priority for him prison reform rebuilding broken families bringing jobs back to America jobs and Cleveland jobs in Detroit jobs in Milwaukee.

3 (9m 56s):
The larger picture here is that black Americans typically vote Democratic the vast majority of of them vote Democratic. That's a pretty overt campaign strategy to sort of chip away at vitamins margins with black

4 (10m 8s):
voters.

2 (10m 22s):
Okay, let's talk Heavy Hitters here night three Mike Pence night for Donald Trump. Pence's speech was pretty forgettable. Save that killer last lines and with President Donald Trump in the white house for four more years.

4 (10m 37s):
And with God's help. We will make America great again again. Yeah, I mean

3 (10m 45s):
nothing says he's made America great like needing to do it again.

2 (10m 52s):
And then the main event President Trump Thursday night. He opened this thing with lies

4 (10m 59s):
if you want to really drive him crazy, you say 12 more years. Because we caught them doing some really bad things in 2016. Let's see what happens we caught them doing is closing.

2 (11m 15s):
Speech was very long. How many lives do you think he snuck into that? I

3 (11m 18s):
don't know. How many wives did CNN's Daniel Dale catchwords? It double digits. I'm guessing double

2 (11m 24s):
digits

4 (11m 27s):
from said your body is Coke talking about taking down that water will better choice lost it for Rock Obama signed that Come on in 2014 14 million community and any president since Abraham Lincoln that is ludicrous that Johnson announced so-called cancel culture as like an Insidious left-wing thing. He Donald J. Trump has tried to get dozens of people and entities cancels fired boycotted including literally last week

2 (11m 51s):
Goodyear what Trump was trying to do

3 (11m 54s):
over and over again and really trying to hit home last night was like the economy was so great under him until

4 (12m 1s):
coronavirus happens. We passed record-setting tax and regulation cuts at a rate. Nobody had ever seen before. Within three short years, we built the strongest economy and the history of the world

3 (12m 17s):
and without taking much of the responsibility for making coronavirus better because we have essentially seen the federal government largely abdicate its responsibility in this front

2 (12m 30s):
or owning up to the fact that like the United States did the worst job in the world of handling this

3 (12m 35s):
virus. Right? I mean we are not in any way is out of the woods on current a virus, but RNC made it seem like we wash our hands of that that's done. We defeated it. It's all good. We're about to get our economy back on track. So it was it was very much like we were living in the future

2 (12m 53s):
essentially a nun like Joe Biden who didn't mention Donald Trump by name once in his speech last week Donald Trump found what like dozens upon dozens of opportunities to talk directly about Joe Biden in his feature film length, speech last night.

4 (13m 10s):
Yo, bye. I didn't go behind the Joe Biden Joe Biden Joe Biden Joe Biden Biden Biden Biden by Joe Biden Joe Biden Biden Joe a

3 (13m 27s):
few months ago. I would have put money down on you know, the fact that the vast majority of any Trump speech at the RNC would have been about like Hunter Biden and Burr asthma and Ukraine and that Like barely came up and instead it

4 (13m 43s):
was the radical left willed to fund police departments all across America. They will pass Federal legislation to reduce law enforcement Nationwide. They will make every city look like Democrat run Portland, Oregon. No one will be safe and Biden's

3 (14m 2s):
American and you know, you call 911 and there is no operator there to pick up the phone because Joe Biden has defunded the

2 (14m 8s):
police and we should let people know that Joe Biden does not want to defund. And the

3 (14m 11s):
police. Yes, Joe Biden does not want to defund the police that is absolutely not part of his, you know platform or what he wants to

2 (14m 17s):
do, but that didn't stop like speaker after speaker after speaker at the RNC from telling you that he does.

3 (14m 25s):
Yeah, absolutely and there is a definite strategy here. I mean Donald Trump and his campaign team know that the election is going to largely be decided in America's suburbs. These are suburbs, you know that president after president for years. Try to appeal to and I think that Trump is sort of going for kind of the whitewash version of the suburbs the like white soccer mom who is afraid of, you know violence in her community, etc. Etc. I think it's worth noting that the suburbs are much more diverse place than that, but it is definitely, you know, swing voters and independent voters are going to be the ones that decide the 2020 election.

3 (15m 8s):
We saw them swing hard for Democrats in 2018 Trump is terrified that they're going to do the same thing in 2020 with Biden at the top of the ticket. And so even though you know Biden is a moderate politician who actually over the course of his Senate career oversee, like a fairly like Draconian crime bill, they are going to paint him as you know, the head of the new socialist regime that is going to defund the police and make your family less safe and take away all of your freedom. As an American that's the

4 (15m 42s):
message well Ella. It's been an experience. It has we just have to do it. We don't have to do debates now. Can't wait. Well, we'll talk soon then. Okay. Bye Sean.

2 (16m 15s):
I said it once I said it a thousand times support for the show today comes from the Michelle Obama podcast, which is now on Spotify. The series will bring you listener inside the former first lady's most candid and personal conversations to show you what's possible when you allow yourself to be a little vulnerable gosh, darn it to open up and to focus on what matters most Michelle Obama herself says her hope is that Series can be a place to explore meaningful topics together and sort through so many of the questions. We're all trying to answer in our own lives. She says perhaps most of all she hopes the podcast will help listeners open up new conversations and hard conversations with the people who matter most to them and she's leading by example.

2 (17m 4s):
She's talking to her husband to her brother to her best friends to her Conan O'Brien and Chief and you can listen for free 99 At Spotify.com / Michelle Obama, so why wouldn't you? Ezra Klein, you are a policy guy. What policy plans for Donald Trump's next four years. Did you glean from the RNC this week? We're going to make America great again again again again again again again again and it it is the peculiar way in which Donald Trump as the incumbent president of the United States is still trying to run as if

4 (17m 56s):
Is the

2 (17m 57s):
Challenger who has no power right? He is saying that if you elect Donald Trump, we're going to get the economy back. If you left almost not really a coronavirus under control. If you elect Donald Trump The Bite in administration isn't going to let America collapse into chaos as you're seeing in many cities as protests take hold and you might ask what Donald Trump is president now, so why is all that happening and there was no answer for that. But is that the smartest strategy for you know, Teflon Don to take here? Thing seems to stick to him right? I mean a hundred and eighty thousand two hundred thousand Americans potentially have died from this coronavirus and how has it affected his his polls with his base there like exactly the same right?

2 (18m 43s):
So I think you know the term Teflon Don is triggering to me and so I'm upset that you used it. I think that was unfair after I was up so late last night what Donald Trump is is stable. He's not tough Lon. I want to be really They're about this when you are pulling a 42% You're not Teflon. He was pulling it roughly 42% when the economy is good. He's pulling it 42% in the economy's terrible. He was pulling a 42% before coronavirus. He's pulling it 42% after it the core of the country that has decided they liked him. They like them and nothing's changing their mind. Yeah, and then the majority of the country a big majority that has decided they don't they don't like him and nothing's changing their mind.

2 (19m 25s):
He is stuck. Tuck in his very narrow range and it's you know, it's not a range where it is impossible to imagine him winning the election but it isn't where you want to be as he incumbent, right you'd prefer to be at 54% not 42% I mean, I wonder more than any convention in recent memory, it really felt like both the Democrats and the Republicans were running these sort of conventions of culture to me. The Democrats were saying, you know, we Choose a culture of decency a culture where you don't have to worry about what your Presidents doing all the time and you can get back to your life and and Donald Trump appears to be running on this sort of, you know culture of of fear of watch out for what Joe Biden might do even though those things are happening right now on the streets in Kenosha and telling people that you know, we have to put an end to this cancel culture that Donald Trump him.

2 (20m 26s):
Self is a part of I mean did you did you feel that way that they're just trying to speak to two different visions of what American culture could become these were conventions about America about who controls the American narrative and who belongs in the definition of the Patriot. I think if you look at not just the protest but what is Downstream from them to write this idea the anti-racism that America is founded on white supremacy that There are things we must atone for a look at ourselves we have to do if you look at the NBA players ceasing play what is happening? There is people who often for almost all of American history did not have the power to say this is what is happening to us.

2 (21m 12s):
You have to pay attention. You have to listen and you have to change have the power to say that as a developer power as the political coalition's have changed the Democratic parties become not a hundred percent but more and more vehicle for that. And so much of the two conventions were about how you felt about that future Donald Trump's version of that future. I mean make America great again is just a hundred percent roll it back. Stop it from happening. Yeah, you're not going to listen to these people. You're not going to hear that America is a racist country. You're not going to hear that we have anything to apologize for we are not going to change who has power and who gets listen to and who gets to shape and set our national identity and narrative and Joe Biden's convention was very much the opposite it was saying, That is America very explicitly in the Obama and Biden speeches.

2 (22m 0s):
It was forming a national identity in which that was what it meant to be patriotic was to accept these changes except error and be excited about the future. Did you get a sense of what this party looks like after Donald Trump so much of the convention seemed just designed to flatter him and make him happy. But what is the party look like once he's gone? I think you saw three. Possible sprains that so one is it looks like a trump after eight years of Obama and

4 (22m 32s):
Biden slow growth Trump's policies have been like Rocket Fuel to the economy and especially to the middle class.

2 (22m 40s):
So maybe don jr.

4 (22m 41s):
Runs Biden has promised to take that money back out of your pocket and keep it in the swamp. That makes sense though. Considering Joe Biden is basically the Loch Ness monster of the swamp. And I think there's a real feeling that Don jr. Is a political

2 (22m 54s):
Heir Apparent on the other hand the person Donald Trump put on Primetime on the key night next to him is Ivanka and there are rumors that she would like to run in the future as well.

4 (23m 4s):
He's our commander in chief. He's champion

1 (23m 8s):
of the Our endure of Common Sense and our voice for the Forgotten men and women of this country. He is our president and my father Donald J

4 (23m 20s):
Trump another version is it is somebody who is a more traditional

2 (23m 25s):
Republican but who pledges fealty to Trump? That's what we saw was saying Mike Pence or Kim Scott or Nikki Haley

1 (23m 32s):
President Trump and vice president pets have my support and America has our promise. We will build on the progress. Of our past and unlock the promise of our future that future starts when the American people reelect President Donald Trump

2 (23m 51s):
and you saw what it's going to look like as a Republican party tries to synthesize the bases love of Donald Trump. He stole at 91% among Republicans with an effort to return to what the Republican party was before Trump. And for the most part still wants to be after him, you know cut taxes on rich people some what more hawkish foreign policy and then there are a couple people Tom Cotton is probably the best example of this but he's not the only one who have been trying to articulate a post Trump policy. It was surprisingly the guy named Josh Holly who's another member of the Senate wasn't there. There are people who want to do what they feel Trump didn't do which is take his impulses rhetorically and fashion them into a more thoroughgoing ideologies

4 (24m 34s):
President Trump Avenge the murder of hundreds of Americans by killing. Iran's terrorist Mastermind custom, silly money. Joe Biden sent pallets of cash to the Ayatollah has President Trump ripped up the dangerous Iran nuclear deal. So I thought you could see those three

2 (24m 53s):
things happening at the convention in different ways or just like there's the Trump's there are Republicans willing to join the personality called but who just kind of want to be idia, logically Republicans and then there are the people floating around who want to Fashion a post trumpism ideology that in some ways takes what Trump said more seriously than he himself ever did. Does that mean that there's hope that in four months or maybe four years, there's going to be an American politics that just isn't as divisive and constantly Whiplash inducing and damaging to the American psyche.

2 (25m 35s):
What would yo doesn't seem to understand. You know, it's Mike Pence said is that America is a nation of

4 (25m 41s):
Miracles formation of Miracle, son. We can always hope. Thank you Mike. Thank you Ezra. Thank you. This is Advertiser

1 (26m 7s):
content. If you're feeling the weight of these times more heavily lately. You're not alone. I'm Tori young and I'm a writer of ox creative Michelle Obama's new podcast on Spotify is facilitating. The important conversations were maybe too afraid to have like how to take time for ourselves. Especially when coming together feels more urgent than ever reaching for something better is hard and it is draining and it's difficult to sustain. I just

4 (26m 37s):
hope that you all are also finding the time to take care of yourselves. All right,

1 (26m 46s):
caring for ourselves isn't a quick fix often self-care is sold to us as an easy solution to deeper paint. So I set out to find what does self-care sustainable self-care look like South care is so much more than like that massage or that bubble bath. It is absolutely like Moving intentionally in our lives Alex L is an author and self-care facilitator during a stressful time in her life. Alex started writing down her affirmations. It's really easy to speak affirmations in might affirmations when things are awesome. But the challenge and a good challenge is an affirmation when things are hard.

1 (27m 28s):
Alex doesn't think self-care is selfish either. She says it's an investment in ourselves and our loved ones to me stealing. My own cup so that when I show up in my community I'm able to not only be my fullest self but my most intentional self in a good example of this would be my two-year-old is a hoot. She's hung lady the other day. I was frustrated about something and she goes mom take a deep breath. It's going to be okay two years old and me and Dad say that to her when she's all flustered and fired up over her two-year-old life. Hmm. Our children are watching. And they're watching how we care for ourselves.

1 (28m 8s):
Can you kind of show me? Can we walk through it? Yeah, let's do it. So let's drop our shoulders like unclench our jaw softly close our eyes and let's roll our neck little bit and then let's take three deep breaths together and you want to do in through the nose. And

4 (28m 30s):
out

1 (28m 34s):
breath work is just one way that our physical bodies can help us connect to our deep ourselves and connecting and centering our core self is more important than ever right now, but it can be hard to expose our vulnerabilities to a sad and angry world. I know that I am dealing with some form of low-grade depression not just because of the quarantine but because of the racial strife and just seeing this And watching the hypocrisy of it day in and day out is dispiriting see Michelle Obama feels it to people Nationwide a Reckoning with higher rates of anxiety and depression right now. A third of people in the United States say the ongoing pandemic has had serious impacts on their mental health in Black Americans are reporting significant spikes and depression and anxiety as the fight for racial equality intensifies your strong because generationally you've always been told old that you had to be but just because you are does it mean that you enjoy being that's tunde Oh, you mean makeup artist turned Peloton fitness instructor change isn't easy.

1 (29m 45s):
It's going to take time and these growing pains are real but one way to start caring for yourself is to treat yourself like you do your friends have the same patience with yourself that you have with other people. The voices in your head the voices that you are Whispering you are the only one who can hear those words. And so since they're locked in your head. They have so much power. How can we reframe this by allowing yourself Grace and realizing you're human and I'm guilty of it too and press pause for once or as Michelle Obama puts it.

1 (30m 25s):
So make sure that you all are listening to

4 (30m 28s):
your spirits and to your bodies and when you need a moment to recharge take it

1 (30m 35s):
and do not feel guilty about needing to take that

4 (30m 38s):
break because in the end if we want to do anything to change in this world of ours, it's got to start with each of us individually

1 (30m 48s):
having the energy to show up in the world the way we want to new episodes of the Michelle Obama podcast drop every Wednesday only on Spotify.