2 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from NerdWallet smart money podcast, if you're trying to keep up with everything that's going on in the economy right now. You probably feel like your heads about to explode says NerdWallet smart money podcast, but you can stay on top of financial news and learn how to manage your own money better with NerdWallet smart money podcast experts Liz Weston and Shawn piles will walk you through the IRS and aprs and all the other three letter acronyms. You need to know to get your money right to start listening head to Apple or Spotify or wherever you listen and search for NerdWallet smart money show. Hi. I'm Avery troubleman and I'm the new host of the cut podcast from New York Magazine and the VOX media podcast Network every Wednesday the cut editorial team and I will explore surprising provocative ideas about style self culture and Power in our first episode.

2 (55s):
We're looking at what it means to be optimistic in 2020

1 (60s):
you Listen And subscribe to the cut now on Apple podcast or wherever you listen. The Democrats held the first ever virtual Convention of a major American political party this week. It was four nights of programming that looked a lot like the Zooms in WebEx as we've become accustomed to during this pandemic or as President Obama put it when he spoke on Wednesday night as you seen by now. This isn't the normal convention. It's not a normal time

2 (1m 39s):
instead of having a big convention hall stage

1 (1m 42s):
we Add celebrity hosts in TV studios. I first met Joe Biden when I was doing my show Veep. I played the vice president and he was in fact the vice president and we hit it off immediately instead of Music piped in through speakers or live

2 (1m 59s):
performances. We got glossy music videos from Billy eilish and John Legend and the

1 (2m 4s):
constant unrelenting use of Bruce Springsteen's my city of ruins the pad every last transition. Ian from speaker to speaker to video to video 2 video But the virtual thing occasionally worked in the democrats favor convention roll call is typically one of the longest logs of the week. And now we go to the delegation from

2 (2m 32s):
Utah la-di-da-di-da this

1 (2m 35s):
time around in a time where many of us are grounded. We got to go to every last state and territory from North Carolina. I've been doing this for a long time. So, let me just in place. Black people especially black women are the backbone of this party and if we don't show up Democrats don't get elected. I'm putting all my mask and we're going to every corner in North Carolina. They helped organize to American Samoa the governor and the American Samoa Democratic party. We probably cast 11 votes for our next president of the United States of America.

1 (3m 16s):
Yo Mike, To Exotic Rhode Island, the calamari comeback State of Rhode Island cast one vote for Bernie Sanders and 34 votes for the next President. Joe Biden and the boss was with us for the entire Journey.

2 (3m 42s):
Covid forced the DNC to reimagine what a political convention looks like and covid was also a theme that ran throughout the week Ellen Nelson was watching and reporting for Vox right off the bat. They talked to a local businessman who you know just runs a small business and said that he had lost 40% of his Revenue because of covid we've

1 (4m 10s):
literally had to reinvent our Business several times since the beginning of the year just to stay

2 (4m 16s):
afloat. So there was a lot of discussion with with small business owners with First Responders a school nurse in Texas wearing her Cookie Monster scrubs who had just gone back to

1 (4m 26s):
school. It's a little scary with all the uprisings and covid cases,

2 (4m 30s):
you know Democrats kept hitting on this this thing over and over again, which was it didn't have to be this bad that Donald Trump and the current federal government had mismanaged the crisis that had it had had gotten that bad Bernie Sanders on Monday night gave his speech and uttered this famous phrase Euro fiddled while Rome burned

1 (4m 53s):
Trump Golf

2 (4m 55s):
also on the first night, you know, the one of the most poignant speeches was not made by a politician but it was made by this woman named Kristen or Kiza who is a woman from Arizona whose dad died of covid after that states reopening my dad Mark Anthony Eric. Sir should be here today, but he isn't and you know, she very calmly but angrily basically said, you know, the federal government's response is the reason that my dad died. My dad was a healthy 65 year old his only pre-existing condition was trusting Donald Trump and for that he paid with his life.

2 (5m 37s):
The thing that killed him basically was listening to Donald Trump. Essentially there were so many moments where Are people like Kristen sort of stole the show from the headliners but I suppose we have to talk about some of those people at the top of the bill. Michelle Obama was the first to really leave an impression by my accounting. Yeah. She was the first sort of real keynote on Monday night and it was interesting. There was kind of this incredible contrast between Monday night when she gave her speech and

1 (6m 5s):
2016 and I was actually in Philadelphia in 2016, and I remember just this Credible just the war from the crowd when she walked on stage. And this was when she sort of delivered her very famous when they go low we go High Line when someone is cool or acts like a bully you don't stoop to their level know. Our motto is when they go low we go high and the energy in that room was just so raw and so

2 (6m 37s):
palpable and of course on Monday night there was none of that she was sitting in a room. By herself, it was a pre-taped speech so it had already been taped but it still was extremely powerful even though she didn't have that crowd there cheering her on Donald Trump is the wrong president for our country. He cannot meet this moment. He simply cannot be who we need him to be for us. It is what it is building on her 2016 when they go well we go high speech. She kind of hit that again and said, Going high isn't the only thing that works because when we go low when we use those same tactics of degrading and dehumanizing others, we just become part of the ugly noise that's drowning out everything else.

2 (7m 28s):
She was you know saying we still need to appeal to our better selves basically and also was really urging people to go vote in November to make it a critical part of their civic duty and not to let it pass them.

1 (7m 42s):
Bye and then Barack Obama and Kamala Harris had to

2 (7m 51s):
speak on the same night and no disrespect to to Kamala but it felt like Barack Obama, maybe gave the more memorable speech. It was memorable because Barack Obama like pulled no punches. He was not quiet at all and made no bones about how he felt about the Trump presidency for

1 (8m 9s):
close to four years. Now. He has shown no, interest in putting in the work no interest in finding common ground no interest in using the awesome power of his office to help anyone but himself and his friends. No interest in treating the presidency as anything, but one more reality show that he can use to get the attention he craves. Donald Trump hasn't grown into the job because he can't And the consequences of that failure are

2 (8m 43s):
severe like speakers before him. He really hammered home the point. They are counting on your cynicism that voting this year is critical.

1 (8m 52s):
That's how a democracy Withers. Until it's no democracy at all. And we cannot let that happen. Do not let them take away your power. Do not let them take away your

2 (9m 8s):
democracy and he also spoke, you know, very glowingly and warmly about his partnership with Biden when Biden was his vice president 12

1 (9m 16s):
years ago when I began my search for vice president. I didn't know I'd end up finding a

2 (9m 22s):
brother. They are very close personally. It's you know, one of the closest relationships between a president and a vice president. Probably in modern history

1 (9m 31s):
Joe's a man who learned early on to treat every person he meets with respect and dignity living by the words his parents taught him. No one's better than you Joe. But you're better than

2 (9m 45s):
nobody and so Obama was able to speak about by did not just as somebody, you know who has worked with him for eight years, but also on a personal level as a friend.

1 (10m 1s):
So I guess that brings us to the main event

2 (10m 3s):
Joe Biden's speech on Thursday night. Yeah. So you've basically had all of these people making Arguments for why Joe Biden should be chosen, but now Joe Essentially had to make that argument himself

1 (10m 16s):
character is on the ballot compassion is on the ballot decency science democracy. They're all on the ballot. Who we are as a nation what we stand for most importantly who we want to be that's all on the ballot and the choice could not be more

2 (10m 35s):
clear. It was a vintage Joe Biden's speech. It was appealing to you know, America's better nature and you know trying to write its moral compass in the age of trump, and he also presented a strong contrast in terms of leadership around the

1 (10m 50s):
world. I'll be a president will stand with our allies and friends and make it clear to our Terry's the days of cozying up to dictators is over

2 (10m 60s):
the message that came through over and over again is if you elect me president, I will do the things that need to be done to keep you and your family safe. I will do the things that need to be done to keep you and your family having a steady paycheck. It was very much. Like if I am elected president, you won't have to constantly be worrying about what I'm going to do or say or tweet next

1 (11m 23s):
or current president has failed. In his most basic duty to the nation, he's failed to protect us. He's failed to protect America and my fellow Americans that is unforgivable. And this

2 (11m 38s):
is a moment where Biden can very effectively make that speech Just judge this president on the

1 (11m 43s):
facts. Five million Americans infected by covid-19 more than 170,000 Americans have died by far the worst performance of any Nation

2 (11m 56s):
on Earth. He showed a real difference between Trump and there were no slip-ups really to speak of there were no gaps and that's what he

1 (12m 6s):
needed to do. You ready for the next one? There's a there's a there's another convention next

2 (12m 17s):
week. I mean, it's going to be another four nice. I think it's going to be totally a lot different from the Democrats it always is but I mean, the thing that I'm sort of looking for is if there's really any messaging on, you know, economic populism or any of the things that sort of spurred voters to elect Trump in 2016, or if it has just sort of become this kind of cult of personality around Trump himself, but the other thing too is it's worth keeping in mind that these two hours of really tight television Monday through Thursday that was months of work leading up to that. I mean Democrats had started to prepare for the scenario that there would be just an all virtual convention back in April and Republicans from you know, what I've heard haven't necessarily put in that amount of time into it.

2 (13m 8s):
They were still talking about having an in-person convention up until July and so if you have one month left to prepare That's not a lot of time. So I think people are just going to be looking to see like if the Republicans virtual convention is going to be as clean as the Democrats

1 (13m 25s):
was. Well Allah will probably have you on to talk about at the end of next week? Thanks so much. Sounds good. Thank you.

2 (13m 44s):
Let's Bruce more Ezra after a break.

1 (14m 4s):
Bruce

2 (14m 5s):
enough already my word as recline Fox. Sorry about that. What did the Democrats need to accomplish this week Beyond the technical feat of an all virtual convention. What did they need to deliver in substance? So convention is about a party presenting the version of itself that it wants the public to see and what Joe Biden. It believes the party should be at this moment in this campaign. And what the public wants is an answer to the problem of Donald Trump? and an answer to the problem of Donald Trump no matter whether you don't like Trump because you're a moderate Republican feels that he's betrayed the party you stand for a party that was once respectable that had a moral core that believed in policies at values or if you're a Social Democrat who thinks we both need a more

1 (14m 58s):
Progressive America, but also Donald

2 (14m 60s):
Trump is going to push us into Fascism and what they were trying to create in this convention was a campaign Coalition a Coalition big enough to decisively A destroy Donald Trump in November and It ultimately came together with much more power than I anticipated in Joe Biden's acceptance speech. So what you're saying here is that the Democrats may not have unified their ideology this week in any real way but they did unify the message as the Democrats need to defeat Donald Trump. And Joe Biden is very much the person to do that whether your AOC or John Kasich or some other Republican who spoke this week.

2 (15m 42s):
Yeah, and I would go even a little bit further than that. The Democratic Convention and this is particularly true in the speeches of Barack Obama and Joe Biden. Wasn't just about the idea of defeating trump. It was very much about the idea of what is America. What is the story of America and both Obama and Biden in somewhat different ways, but with a really cohesive approach. They tried to tell story about who we are as Americans what we are what makes us great. What is defined our history in which Donald Trump is actually the villain of that story and I think it's actually important right? This is contesting the very The mental Narrative of the country

1 (16m 26s):
this Administration has shown it will tear our democracy down if that's what it takes for them to win. So we have to get busy building it up. By pouring all our efforts into these 76 days and by voting like never before for Joe and Kamala and candidates up and down the ticket. So that we leave no doubt about what this country that we love stands for. Today and for all our days to come and then Jill Biden came out and I was

2 (17m 4s):
struck by the first words of his speech good evening.

1 (17m 10s):
Ella Baker a giant of the Civil Rights Movement left us with this wisdom give people light and they will find the way give people light. Those are words for our time. The current president has cloak American Darkness for much too long. Too much anger too much fear too much division here. And now I give you my word. If you entrust me with the

2 (17m 41s):
presidency, I will draw on

1 (17m 43s):
the best of us not the worst. I'll be an ally of the light not the darkness.

2 (17m 50s):
It's time for us for we the

1 (17m 52s):
people to come together.

2 (17m 55s):
And make no mistake united we can and

1 (17m 59s):
will overcome this season of darkness in America. I mean, he spoke about this like it was Lord of the Rings and for a moment I was taken aback of

2 (18m 8s):
it. I mean, it's much blunter than political rhetoric normally is but then it sits at with me and he went through it. I thought yeah, actually it is simply that blunt. This moment in American politics what is represented by the two candidates? Is that a blunt? I mean Biden's message is fundamentally that he likes you that he respects you that even if you don't agree with him, you are still part of his beloved community and Trump's message is the opposite. I guess a question I have though is like who is that message for at this point anyone watching that convention? But my sense is that the people watching this convention.

2 (18m 51s):
The people are tuning in for eight hours of DNC propaganda. They agree with that message. Well, nobody turns in phrase is only us. It's like 46 journalists had to watch the light bomb apparently and your mom but I see two things on that one. It

1 (19m 8s):
does reach further apart totally

2 (19m 9s):
threw in like modern media clips and distribution. I mean Fox News said Joe Biden's speech was

1 (19m 16s):
excellent Oh I thought It was an enormously effective speech. Remember Donald Trump has been talking for months about Joe Biden as mentally shot a captive of the left and it is Biden was reading from a teleprompter and a prepared speech that I thought that he blew a hole a big hole in that characterization. Right? So those are people who probably were not watching

2 (19m 38s):
the DNC but they got some version of Joe Biden's speech and kind of shockingly. They got it with good reviews, but it is Always a case that politicians speak to a narrow slice of the country than they would like, but they kind of have to act as if that's not true. But in terms of who they want to speak to who they frame this for it was not just Democratic party diehards. They made an argument that was made to the whole country in the hopes that more people than they can imagine would somehow or another here at or hear parts of it. What they were trying to say is it There is in America Donald Trump doesn't represent it.

2 (20m 20s):
And if you don't want it to feel like this if you don't want to feel like we are at each other's throats that we don't like each other that we are country on the

1 (20m 27s):
verge of some kind of spiritual dissolution vote

2 (20m 30s):
Democratic. What comes next in the The Joe and Kamala show is it just Perform, well the debates and then there's an election will look they're gonna have to build structures right now that are pretty unprecedented. What is get-out-the-vote mean this year. It's maybe not going to mean the kinds of massive busing to the polling operations that you see and in previous Cycles because maybe that'll be unsafe. Yeah. So is it get out the mailboat think so that was certainly something running through the convention and making sure it doesn't feel Sick or dangerous to be able to making sure that vote will be counted. They have to raise money.

2 (21m 10s):
There's gonna be a massive air War right advertising doesn't do much this far away from the election. But as you get closer to it, it really can matter so they're raising a lot of money to make sure they can have airwave dominance. I have to assume the reason Mike Bloomberg got a prime-time speaking slot on the prime night of the election.

1 (21m 31s):
Good evening. I've never been much for partisan politics is

2 (21m 35s):
because And they are hoping he keeps that promise to spend a billion bucks between now and election day. Wait, you don't think you don't think it's because he's a super compelling speaker. I mean the raw animal Charisma of Mike Bloomberg is not to be

1 (21m 51s):
underestimated. Donald says we should vote for him because the economy was great before the virus, huh

2 (21m 58s):
recognizing that was almost too hot for TV that long profile shot. But yes, I think there might be Some ulterior motives here, too. Azra, thank you. All right, Jess.

1 (22m 17s):
That's it Bruce.

2 (22m 17s):
Go to your room you're grounded for the weekend.