0 (1s):
Oh my God. Lexi, how was your trip to Italy? Every single influencer and talker who put the Amalfi Coast on my for you page over the last two months deserves jail time. Why? What happened? First of all, it's impossible to get here. You have to fly into Naples, then you have to take a train from Naples to Sorento. Then you have to stand in 90 degree weather waiting for a ferry to get on a ferry with all of your luggage. Mind you, we've been in Europe for two weeks. Oh, that sucks. But at least you're in Italy, right? This, there is no streets here. There is no cars driving. So you have to walk up 160 stairs to get to the top of this gorgeous, gorgeous, gorgeous area with these beautiful views. And then also all the power went out because the Alfi coast doesn't have the infrastructure to support this tourism.

0 (47s):
oh,

2 (47s):
My God Coming up on today explained Vacation. all I ever wanted. It's some of the most expensive meat in the world, but is it even meat? This summer, for the first time, Americans are gonna be able to try actual chicken meat that didn't involve killing a chicken. This Episode of Gastropod, we are among the very first people to taste our way through these brand new lab grown offerings. Chicken, hamburger, bacon, salmon, blue fin tuna. We tasted at All. We wanted to know whether it matches up to the real thing, but we also wanted to know if it can ever really replace meat from animals.

2 (1m 32s):
Not to mention keep our planet from going up in smoke. Find gastropod wherever you get your podcasts and taste the future. You've probably heard about the job of an intimacy coordinator, but do you know what they actually do?

7 (1m 46s):
And every intimacy coordinator's kit is gonna be some form of Mint, really? I think most of the time. Oh, a hundred percent, huh. Then we add in the full retro Listerine breath strip, which is crucial.

6 (1m 57s):
Oh, several years into the era of the intimacy coordinator. We ask what they've changed for the better in Hollywood and what still needs work. This week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast

8 (2m 18s):
You're listening to today explains this is, is it today? Explain or should I explains? Explain death. Explain death

0 (2m 26s):
V's. Volpi. Have you traveled at all this summer?

9 (2m 30s):
Not this summer, but I traveled over the winter. I did a trip right before Christmas to Paris and a couple places in Brussels.

0 (2m 37s):
How were you flighted?

9 (2m 40s):
So getting there was fine and getting back was kind of a nightmare. We had like a very short layover in Dublin from Paris and so the flight was delayed getting to Paris. There was a lineup, baggage check like 30 minutes before the flight was supposed to board. No one had checked their luggage yet and that flight was delayed. So We were delayed getting into Dublin and we only had an hour. So by the time we landed, the next flight was supposed to be boarding and I just had a meltdown. I start crying, I'm sobbing cuz there were no other flights back to Philadelphia where I lived for at least another day.

0 (3m 19s):
So Ali did what we all do. She ran through the airport looking like a crazy person.

9 (3m 24s):
I'm crying, I am running, I'm looking a hot mess. I'm throwing my passport at people. They're just like, go, go you crazy woman. Like throw my passport at this poor worker in the airport. And she's like, ma'am, you need to calm down. And I pulled the, you don't tell me to calm down. I'm missing my flight spiel. So she gives me my pass and I'm running up and down the airport like screaming like where's B 52? And no one is helping me. And now I, I hold a grudge against Irish people. Just kidding. They're all very nice. But that was stressful. I did make it home and it was terrible.

0 (4m 2s):
We have both had some experiences and I think yes, you and I and probably everybody else listening can attest that disruptions to travel do seem particularly bad this year. However, is that data or is that anecdotal? Are things really as bad as as we seem to be experiencing or feeling?

9 (4m 19s):
It does seem to be anecdotal. Our colleague, wizzy Kim just reported that like slightly more than 19% of flights were delayed last year and in 2018 only 17% of flights were delayed. And so far this year 22% of flights have been delayed. So it doesn't really seem to be that big of a difference. It just feels like it's a lot worse.

10 (4m 42s):
My first flight was canceled due to weather. My second flight was canceled because of a drunk guy on the plane. My third flight was canceled because they couldn't find crew. Like, I cannot do this anymore. I'm traveling with my son who has autism and this is too much.

9 (5m 4s):
What

0 (5m 4s):
Causes delays? Some cancellations? Why does this happen?

9 (5m 7s):
Yeah, so as of late around the July 4th holiday there was a bunch of delays

11 (5m 13s):
From LA to New York. Another nearly 7,000 flights delayed, almost 1200 canceled as airlines struggled to recover ahead of the looming holiday travel surge.

9 (5m 23s):
But it seems that it's mostly weather issues that have been impacting these flights that

12 (5m 28s):
Was lucky enough to get a seat, didn't get that far either. Fully loaded planes sitting still as they wait in vain for takeoff clearance. A bank of dark clouds right in their way. And

9 (5m 39s):
This can have a ripple effect. If your flight is delayed then the next flight is delayed and there also seems to be a shortage of air traffic controllers as well. So there is some personnel issues that are impacting this. United

13 (5m 50s):
Blamed a shortage of air traffic controllers for its weekend problems but then suffered its own operational

9 (5m 56s):
Meltdown. But it largely seems to be weather since that is very uncontrollable. Weather's

0 (6m 2s):
Always been an issue for for airplanes, right? It's always something that has existed,

9 (6m 7s):
Right? And I think we are now just more attuned to climate change and some of the disasters that we are now experiencing more often because heat waves and smoke from wildfires can also impact whether flights leave on time as well

14 (6m 20s):
For the Philadelphia airport, no incoming flights. And you can see in these live pictures why it is because of the low visibility and the poor air quality caused by the wildfires in Quebec, those

9 (6m 32s):
Places. So I think as those things continue to ramp up, it will continue to be more of a problem.

0 (6m 38s):
What should people know about delays? You wrote a very good piece and you walked through what people should do. There were many things in there. I'm a frequent flyer. There are many things in there that had never occurred to me. So run through what people should know if their flight is delayed. Wait,

9 (6m 53s):
Yeah, if your flight is delayed, first of all download the app for your airline. Turn on the notifications so you can continually be updated on what's happening. So if you haven't left your house yet or your hotel or your loved one's home and your flight is delayed five hours, great, you've got a little extra time to hang out to chill or it could not be so great cuz you have to check out of your hotel. But at least you know for delays that extend overnight due to controllable issues, that is something like the crew is not there, they have to clean the plane. So not something like weather. Many airlines do offer complimentary hotel accommodations and you can find all that out on the D o t airline customer service dashboard.

15 (7m 40s):
We just launched the new website flights, right.gov, flights right.gov. It features a dashboard we created last fall to give travelers more transparency to airlines compensation policy.

0 (7m 56s):
It's actually flight rights.gov

9 (7m 60s):
But you know the big airlines, American Delta, spirit Southwest. So those airlines provide free hotels and transportation to the hotel as well. But again, extreme weather does not fall under that controllable reasoning. So unfortunately you're kind of outta luck. But it is worth asking if you can get a hotel accommodation cuz what's the worst they can say no. Is there

0 (8m 30s):
Any way to shorten these processes? I mean the two things that I think people will complain about all the time are long waits at the airport and long waits, long waits when things go wrong, what makes it shorter? Anything it

9 (8m 42s):
Seems that if you sort of take things into your own hands, which is very unfortunate and sort of do all the legwork like on an app versus like waiting in line at the airport, it'll be faster to try to do it yourself on an app or on a kiosk or even if you called the airlines international number because less people will be calling that line. It just unfortunately seems like you kind of have to take things into your own hands and maybe find some other flights that are comparable and see if you can get on those or find in a partner airline and see if you can get on one of those flights.

0 (9m 18s):
Let me ask you about another travel piece you wrote for Vox about us. Now I'm choosing my words very carefully here. For a long time I think there has been a perception of a American travelers as ugly Americans that we're not very sensitive about other people's cultures. We barge into things without really knowing what our surroundings are.

9 (9m 39s):
Do

0 (9m 39s):
You think that still happens and for people who would like to not be the ugly American, what have you found works?

9 (9m 47s):
I think that trope still exists. I think now that people are more aware of it, hopefully they're trying to change their attitudes a little bit. But don don't know, if you saw recently there was a PSA from Amsterdam sort of telling young British men do not come here to be rowdy. We don't want you so don don't think it's just Americans, but there is a sense of rowdy tourists going into a place and sort of disrupting the way of life for locals. And I think we have to just be mindful that this is somebody's home. This is where somebody lives and you wouldn't want someone to come to your home and scream outside of your window all hours of the night. So I think it's worth considering the culture, the people and the earth, the environment.

9 (10m 29s):
So you don't need to, you know, travel halfway across the world to encounter a different culture or a different ecosystem. This could happen, you know, in your own backyard essentially. But to just be really aware and really respectful of other people's lives and how they do things. You

0 (10m 44s):
And I have just talked about a series of annoyances about being offensive, about trying to be inoffensive, about running through airports, about weeping, about strange people sometimes like, I don't know, jacking your stuff, leading you down alleys. What is the case for actually doing this? I think

9 (11m 2s):
There's a strong case for travel to sort of open ourselves up to new experiences, new people, new ways of life. Even if we're just learning a couple of phrases in a new language that is something we didn't have before. I think it's really crucial to sort of get out of our own heads, our own bubbles, our own ecosystems and see how other people live. It can make you more empathetic, it can make you be thankful for what you have and see how other cultures live, especially in Europe, which maybe isn't as car-centric as things are in America. It can make you reconsider how you wanna live your life. I think it's really valuable and you get to eat really good food.

9 (11m 47s):
Vox is Ali Volpi. Allie, thanks so much for taking the time. We appreciate It. Thanks so much. Coming up a philosopher, real life philosopher makes the case against travel

Shopify (12m 5s):
Support for the show today comes from Shopify. If you're an entrepreneur then you know that feeling. You've got a jackpot idea and all you have to figure out is how to make it real. Whether you're selling handcrafted laptop stands or expanding the reach of your sustainable hair dye line or trying to disrupt the dog leash economy, you need a partner to handle the minutiae so you can focus on the big stuff. Shopify wants to be that partner. Millions already Use Shopify as their trusted e-commerce platform with their sleek, flexible templates. You can build your online store with little to no effort and save time on writing copy by using powerful new AI enabled tools. And once you reach your audience getting paid as easy through Shopify, you'll be able to accept all major payment methods. You can sign up for a $1 per month trial period at shopify.com/explained. That's all lowercase. You can go to shopify.com/explained to see if Shopify can take your business to the next level today. That's Shopify.com/support

Noom (13m 15s):
For today's show comes from Noom. There's a lot of advice about what you should and shouldn't eat out there, but Noom is focused on why you eat. Noom uses science and personalization to help you manage your weight for the long term. And Noom psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors and you decide how Noom fits into your life, not the other way around. Sarah Frank who works on the business side of stuff at Vox Media, she tried out Noom. Hi, I'm Sarah Frank and I've been trying out Noom. I tend to eat less on days that I'm a little anxious or stressed and days that I'm less stressed, I'm eating more. I really appreciated the ability to log my meals and then see a visual tracker and I found that visual feedback to be really helpful and a great reinforcer each day. You can sign up for your trial today at Noom dot com. That's N O om.com to sign up for your trial today

19 (14m 14s):
Because I'm leaving on the don know It's today explained Agnes Callard philosopher. You recently wrote a weekend essay for the new Yorker. It's called The Case Against Travel. Sum it up for me. What's your case against travel? It's basically that people in imbue travel with a kind of magical aura of transformation and virtue as though it were some kind of admirable achievement to travel. And I argue that there's not much reason to believe that that's true.

19 (14m 57s):
There are two possible sources for that kind of idea of virtue. One of them is that you have special experiences that you wouldn't otherwise have and the other is that you like connect to the great sea of humanity in ways that you otherwise wouldn't be able to do. With respect to the first thing, I think insofar as while we travel, we seek out experiences that we don't usually have, which is true, we do do that.

20 (15m 19s):
People go to Oregon concerts when they travel for some reason you're in Europe, you go to an Oregon concert, even if at home you would never go to an Oregon concert, right? So you go to an Oregon concert, I give the example of going to a Falcon hospital in Abu Dhabi. So we, we do go to the, let's say locations where these unusual experiences would be located. But because these aren't normally things we do, we don't actually have the like psychological faculties for having the relevant experience. We just, we don't know how to experience the experience. You don't know how to listen to the Oregon concert or look at the paintings that you would never look at except when you're on Vacation or care about Falcons if they're just not something that you care about.

20 (15m 59s):
So that's the first argument that these sort of transformative experiences don't transform us cause we don't know how to experience them. And the second is that travel is not actually very, let's say friendly and humanistic. Rather when we go somewhere we adopt the attitude of sort of spectator, almost like we're watching a movie except the people around us are not in a movie. They're doing their real life stuff, but we're sort of staring at them and we're dissociated from them, not part of a community with them, even though we're right near them. Okay. You wrote quite a bit about the visit to Abu Dhabi. Can you tell me what happened there?

20 (16m 41s):
I was there for a conference and I got an email before the conference started saying, here's some things that people do in Abu Dhabi. There was like a list of a couple of things and one of them was the Falcon Hospital. So I was like, okay, I guess I should go to this Falcon Hospital Now. I'm someone who doesn't like animals, non-human animals, I like human beings, but basically all non-human animals kind of creep me out and I don't like to be near them to be around them, interact with them in any way. And so you might think it was odd that I chose to go to this Falcon Hospital, but you know, my reasoning was the reasoning of a traveler. Mm, well I shouldn't be limited by my usual tastes. So I go to this Falcon Hospital and there's a tour. They give you a tour and as I'm being led through various like informational panels and exhibits and finally to the part where they're actual falcons and you can have a picture taken with one on your arm.

20 (17m 32s):
I'm adopting this sort of passive deferential attitude where it's like, well I guess this is what I'm supposed to be doing. And I someone who would never want a falcon to be on my arm, I'm just kind of going along with the group and like presenting my arm to to be and falcon. And that seems to me to be quite characteristic of how travelers behave. We're a little bit like zombies.

0 (17m 57s):
My editor pointed out this morning that my Instagram profile picture is me with a very large parrot on my arm in EY, Georgia. And that I am grinning very widely. Okay. I was having fun in that moment. Seconds later, the gentleman who had thrust the parrot onto my arm tried to extort a large amount of money for me. And I was not exactly thrilled. And I will say that I see what you're saying about there being ups and downs, but there wasn't up. There was a brief moment where I, it's like I'm standing here on a bridge in Tbilisi with a parrot on my arm. Damn, that's cool. Did you ever have that kind of feeling?

20 (18m 33s):
So I'm really interested in how you described that feeling. Right? So you described it, I'm standing here on a bridge in Tbilisi with a parrot on my arm, which is an interesting, it's like it has in itself a kind of alienated character. You're like, here is an example of me enjoying traveling and you yourself during the moment are having that very thought. So I think that there is this kind of quicksodic attempt at the authentic when we travel. Like we're trying to have the experience that is characteristic of the place that we're in. Yeah. But we are doing that from the point of view of like not having much of an idea of what that would be because we're not from that place. And so we're constantly asking ourselves, is this it?

20 (19m 13s):
Is this it? Is this the moment? Is this the moment we're having fun? Is this the moment where I'm doing the authentic thing? And maybe some of those moments you answer to yourself. Yes. You're like, oh okay, this must be it. I've got the para on my arm, I'm on the bridge, I'm plei. There we go. Right. And that's how you record it to yourself in those terms.

0 (19m 30s):
Yes. I hear you. Yes. And what's a downside of that?

20 (19m 33s):
You know, a lot of people misinterpreted this essay as telling people not to travel or saying that travel is bad. As I acknowledge in the essay, travel is fun and not only is it fun, but it is a time when we permit ourselves certain sorts of indulgences that we otherwise wouldn't. So you know, some of them is simple as not working. Mm. But also eating at restaurants a lot. So we don't normally, I, I don't normally eat at that many restaurants, but when I'm traveling I'm like, oh what the heck? you know, even when I could just buy grocery food and, and have it in my hotel room, no I'll, I'll think, oh I, it's okay for me to go out and eat out every meal. It's okay for me to spend every single moment just like entertaining myself. So we have, there's certain kind of self-indulgence that's characteristic of travel that's gonna pretty much guarantee that travel is fun.

20 (20m 15s):
So do I think there's something wrong with that? No, I think that's fine. I think some of life is gonna be self-indulgence and you know, not too much of it I hope, but like some of it Sure. The thing that's wrong with it is just the idea that it is something to be proud of don. Don't think it's something to be ashamed of either. But one kind of marker that we do think of it as something to be proud of when we shouldn't is just the stories that we tell. Like we're very ready to tell stories about our travels. Kind of like showing off about them. And at least in my experience, like we are less excited to hear those stories. So they're not actually very good stories. Yeah. Only the people who tell them think they're good.

20 (20m 57s):
It's

0 (20m 57s):
Like telling people about your dreams. It may have meant a lot to you. It is never going to interest anyone else.

20 (21m 6s):
I remember when my parents went to Paris for the first time, I was maybe, I don't know, 10 or 11. This was a big deal. We didn't have much money and it was like their first time going to Paris and they also for the first time got a video camera and this was like a big deal in the whatever, like late eighties. And they took this video of these ducks in a pond somewhere in a park in Paris and you didn't see any Paris, you just saw these ducks and they recorded it for like 20 minutes. And me and my sister had to sit there and watch these ducks and we're just like, what are we looking at? It's just ducks. But my parents thought it was so special

0 (21m 40s):
Because they were French ducks. They were French ducks. Exactly. But what's really interesting, I mean, are you American? I thought you were French. For whatever reason

20 (21m 47s):
My name sounds French. I'm originally Hungarian.

0 (21m 50s):
Okay, okay, gotcha. you know that being an American, there's this sense that when you go to a place like Europe or South America or Asia, you are experiencing culture in a different kind of way, right? You're examining, you're experiencing a culture that's much older than American culture that's much older than the kind of American culture most of us are experiencing every day. Do you buy that going out and experiencing another culture does something that makes a person don don't know? I, I think we think of it as smarter or more educated or more worldly even do, do you buy that?

20 (22m 28s):
I'm a bit skeptical. So I think that a culture is something of very high order of complexity. So like learning is really the attitude that, or let's say the activity that corresponds to experiencing another culture that's, it's hard and you have to learn and you know, to begin to understand another culture requires like learning stuff about their history, maybe reading some of their literature, experiencing their art. And like I think perhaps if like a lot of those activities went together with travel and the travel part was just the sort of laying your eyes on the things that you had already kind of educated yourself into understanding the significance of maybe it would add a little something.

20 (23m 10s):
But I, I guess I think just showing up and then looking at the monuments or something like that, I'm skeptical that it does very much, I mean if you're from a small town and you're the only person in your small town that has been to Paris, that's gonna be a kind of claim to fame for you and people will see you as more worldly just because you can make that claim. That's exactly what in the peace I talk about Johnson advising Boswell to go to China. Yeah, yeah. Because his children will have bragging rights so his children won't actually be more worldly. Right. But they'll come across as more worldly cuz they'll be able to say, my dad went to China. Mm.

0 (23m 46s):
What was a trip that you took where you're like, I enjoyed myself and I feel like I took something away from this?

20 (23m 52s):
I tend to travel when I have another reason to be in the place as well. Mm. If I'm just doing travel for kind of the reasons, I give him my peace, I end up feeling a bit this feeling of like an know me or like, like kinda wandering emptiness. So this December I was in Israel for the first time and I was there to have a workshop on my book manuscript and to give some talks, but of course I was gonna also see stuff in Israel. And I went to, you know, the Wailing Wall and I'm not a very observant Jew and I was like mostly going there as you know, this is an important site.

20 (24m 39s):
But like when I actually showed up there and I saw, you know, there's a part with for the men where the men pray and there's a part where the women pray and I felt like this like almost magnetic pull that I had to get closer to it. And so like I went into the part where the women pray and I walked up and eventually there was like a spot at the wall and I got up to the wall and I like the second that my head touched the wall, I felt like I need to touch it. My head touched the wall and I just started crying and it was such a shock to me. I was like, what is even happening? But I had this feeling of like, oh, like this is the place where my people come to talk to God.

20 (25m 21s):
And I didn't anticipate that I would have that response at all. So that's in a way the or experience of travel is seeing something that to you is really new. And I think that a lot of times we kind of shoot ourselves in the foot because we travel to places with a pretty high anticipation of exactly what's gonna happen. And then holding that experience hostage to it has to fit the thing that I thought was gonna happen in this place and what to me was meaningful about that experience is like I had no way of anticipating that that's what I would experience when I was there. It was genuinely something new.

0 (26m 7s):
Agnes Callard is a philosopher. Today's episode was produced by Hady Modi. It was edited by Matthew Collette, in fact checked by Serena Solan. Patrick Boyd is our engineer. I'm Noel King and I was wrong. It is not a parrot on my arm in the picture, it's a peacock. The parrot is on my shoulder along with a small monkey. It's today explained.