0 (7s):
It's Today Explained I'm Sean rom is from back in late November of last year, we did an episode about Vaccine distribution and it, our guest warned about Vaccine nationalism leaders, vaccinating just there people and disregarding the rest of the world, which obviously wouldn't work well in a global pandemic back then, this was theoretical, but now we can look at some real numbers and Julia Belluz has been doing just that for a Vox how's it look and blue.

1 (33s):
Yes. The short answer is not so great. So we're, we're kind of entering this world of the Vaccine haves and have nots in rich countries, a 150 million COVID-19 vaccine doses have gone out and in poor countries is around 150,000. So less than 1% of the doses that have gone out in rich countries have been distributed in poor countries, less than 1%. Yup. And, and it's actually the only two low-income countries that have had vaccines distributed. So one is Nepal. They recently kicked off their Vaccine campaign with donations from India, and then the other one is Guinea in West Africa.

1 (1m 14s):
So they gave out around 50 doses of vaccine at the end of last year and then stopped. And so it wasn't really the start of a Vaccine campaign, but the health ministry there was saying that this happened only on an experimental basis. So it wasn't the start of an official campaign.

0 (1m 31s):
I mean, we covered the Vaccine first role and out in the UK. And then of course, coming to the United States, pretty much soon after that, it still just a little shocking that this disparity is that drastic something like a, a 150 million in rich countries to 150,000 in poor countries. What's the explanation, is it just first come first served highest spitter,

1 (1m 55s):
Highest bidder is a good way to put it. So vaccines are in a public good and the countries, and it could pay a lot of golf first dibs. And so last year, as we saw the pandemic playing out, rich countries started to sign these bilateral deals with Vaccine manufacturers and they scooped up a lot of the supply. And this created this global scarcity where we're basically the first in line. The first with deals are starting to vaccinate their populations and the rest of the world has to wait. But there's another problem that we should talk about is so the way this worked countries were signing these deals with manufacturers at a time when they didn't know which vaccines would work. So they signed multiple deals, covering their populations many times over.

1 (2m 38s):
So in the case of the U S there's enough, Vaccine supply pre-purchase to cover the population twice over back in our Homeland, you know, we always have to have a Canada reference. They bought, they bought more of vaccine doses than any other country per capita in the world. And this is lead to this crazy disparity were 60% of the sum, 7 billion doses vaccines that are available have been purchased by high-income countries, even though they're home to only 16% of the world's population. It's another massive disparity story in this pandemic. That's a little bit,

0 (3m 13s):
No, because I mean, as I know from living in the United States right now, there's a ton of people who want the Vaccine, but you can't get it.

2 (3m 19s):
I, of people who had Vaccine appointments, if they were even able to get them between websites crashing and phone lines being jammed are now learning that their appointments are canceled.

0 (3m 29s):
Okay. And in Canada have heard similar stories,

2 (3m 32s):
New Pfizer deliveries, provinces are trying to adjust.

0 (3m 35s):
What do you make? It sound like both of these countries should just have warehouses full of Vaccine standing by for everybody who needs them. And it doesn't even

1 (3m 43s):
No, yeah. That that's not happening. What's happening is the vaccine manufacturers or giving the countries that made these deals first in line access. So they have the priority slots over the next year and in the years ahead. And that just means poor countries. Even if they buy doses, now they're going to have to wait,

0 (4m 0s):
When do Poorer countries get the vaccine?

1 (4m 3s):
So one of the estimates I saw was at the earliest, most countries won't even start vaccinating until 2023, 2023. Yeah. So that estimate came from the, the analysis from the economist intelligence unit. But if you think about how slowly things are rolling out, even in the rich countries, and even if things accelerate, it's going to be a while until people WHO at the back of the line, start to get vaccines.

0 (4m 29s):
I mean, I know some poor countries have been spared by this somewhat because to say there's less international travel in and out of those countries, but it seems kind of crazy Belluz that these countries aren't going to get vaccinations until 20, 23 or something. I mean, if this is a global problem, doesn't it need more of an immediate global solution.

1 (4m 50s):
Absolutely. And, and yeah, there's a lot of criticism on rich countries now for hoarding the vaccine supply for exactly the reason you're saying that we're going to just cause a pandemic to a drag on what we're heading toward is the Vaccine have, and have not scenarios where you have rich countries like the us, the UK, Israel vaccinating their entire populations, including young people and poor countries is not having anyone covered. And so this will create opportunities for the virus to continue circulating globally. And we know this is a hugely contagious virus. We need really high levels of herd immunity to stop it from spreading. And if we continue with a rate we're going where you have yeah.

1 (5m 30s):
This big disparity between richer countries in poor countries with Vaccine coverage. WHO, I don't know when this pandemic is going to end.

0 (5m 41s):
I can also see a scenario in which of course Justin Trudeau and, and Joe Biden. And Borris out in the UK. We want to take care of their people first and are prioritizing their own populations, but who's going to represent poor in all of this.

1 (5m 59s):
Well, the WHO has been speaking out against this hoarding and rich countries.

0 (6m 3s):
I need to be blunt. The world is on the brink of a catastrophic moral failure. And the price of this failure will be paid. We have lives and livelihoods in the world's poorest.

1 (6m 21s):
Okay. And the reality is like what we see within the U S there's not a lot of discussion about give the vaccine to poor countries. It's mostly how, how do I get my mom vaccinated? How do I get a vaccine for myself? And obviously makes sense for political leaders, not to think about people and other countries ahead of their own populations. But yeah, we know that again, it's a really contagious virus and to stop the spread, we need to make sure people around the world are covered. There is some ethical debate happening now about whether countries that have had uncontrolled spread like that didn't even make an effort to contain their outbreaks. So the us, the UK, which at one point was just considering driving toward herd immunity.

1 (7m 2s):
They're the ones who are vaccinating at higher rates than, than the rest of the world. And this is obviously yeah, raising some ethical dilemmas about whether it's fair, the countries that have tried and, and did a better job that happened to be poor and not pre-purchase is advanced access. Whether it's fair that they're going to now have to wait. There is this other element here, which is that the rich countries have funded the development of these vaccines and that we have on the market now. And you can argue that they should have advanced access, but again, if we want this pandemic to end and we can leave the rest of the world behind, that's kind of how we got in this mess in the first place, thinking that, you know, a viral threat in China, wasn't a threat to the U S or to the rest of the world.

1 (7m 44s):
Then. And clearly we were proven very, very wrong what

0 (7m 56s):
To do about Vaccine hoarding in

1 (7m 58s):
A minute

0 (8m 13s):
Support for the show today comes from upstart. They want to help you with your credit card debt. And I know you got a lot of credit card debt. It's probably not something you want to spend a ton of time talking about, but here we are, upstart is a fast and easy way to get approved for personal loan. You can use to pay off your debt, consolidate high interest debt, or fund personal expenses, upstart teams up with a trusted partners to offer incredible rates because they assess a lot more than just your credit score. They assess your education, your job history, and more. It's all designed to give you the best possible rate. And you can see what your rate would be online. And just about five minutes without dinging your credit score, or the whole process is fast with the same day approvals and funds delivered in as little one business day.

0 (8m 57s):
Find out how upstart can lower your monthly payments. Today when you go to upstart.com/ Explained. It is upstart.com/ Explained. Don't forget to use our URL to let them know. We sent you to go to upstart.com/ Explained loan amounts will be determined based on your credit income and certain other information provided in your loan application.

3 (9m 22s):
I'm Shereen Ghafari and I'm Alex Kantrowitz. We are hosting the new season of a land of the giants, the podcast that explores the biggest tech companies of our time. This season we're tackling the most powerful Google. Google is the gateway to the internet for billions of people. Every decision Google makes about its products can change how we navigate the world and how we understand it. The land of the giants, the Google empire from Recode and the Vox media podcast network. When's our first episode. Let me Google that for you. Our series begins on Tuesday, February 16th, subscribe for free on Spotify, Apple podcasts, or wherever you listen.

0 (10m 6s):
It was before it took a break. We talked about the catastrophic moral failure here, but you also mentioned in fairness that a lot of the richer countries actually funded a lot of the Vaccine research when all of that funding was happening, could there have been a plan instituted to maybe make sure that the vaccines were more equitably distributed?

1 (10m 25s):
So we, we actually, we meaning the global community actually worked on that last year. It didn't get a ton of press, but countries signed onto the biggest bilateral deal. Since the Paris climate agreement called Kovacs Kovacs, you have Kovacs

3 (10m 41s):
The Kovacs pillar, Ames to ensure that every country gets fair and equitable access to eventual COVID-19 vaccines. It does this by acting as an insurance policy.

1 (10m 54s):
So it's an Alliance of more than 190 countries. And its express purpose is to support the equitable distribution of COVID-19 vaccines and the pandemic.

0 (11m 4s):
How is that supposed to happen? How does Kovacs work?

1 (11m 6s):
So it has two parts. The first part is a purchasing pool that rich countries can buy into. And the idea is that basically, if you coordinate Vaccine purchasing agreements globally, you can buy it in bulk and drive prices down and Poorer countries aren't priced out to the Vaccine race. And then the second part is a fundraising effort. So the idea is that basically richer countries would just give money to support purchases of vaccines for Lauren come countries

0 (11m 34s):
Sounds great on paper and I take it. It's not working.

1 (11m 38s):
Yeah. That's a lot harder to execute in reality, of course. And it's not quite that it's failing, but it's not working up to its ideal. I'm all these agreements that higher income countries signed with the Vaccine manufacturers. They undermine the Kovacs effort because basically rich countries are competing then with the poor countries to get access to doses ahead of anything that Kovacs does, then you can have equitable distribution. Because again, we have this situation where richer countries are at the front of the line.

0 (12m 11s):
No, wait, what are these Richard countries signed up for Kovacs? And then also they're the ones responsible for it not working or where the richer countries never signed up to begin with.

1 (12m 20s):
So, so is that not, not everyone signed up at once and only with Biden coming in to the U S announced that they would sign on one of my sources, Lawrence Gostin at Georgetown, put it really nicely. He said, I'm, you know, countries Join Covid so that they could proclaim, they were a good global citizens, but at the same time, Rob did of its lifeblood, which is obviously Vaccine gnosis that it seems like many countries want it to have it both ways.

0 (12m 46s):
So the vaccination portion of Kovacs, isn't going according to plan, how about the fundraising part of it?

1 (12m 52s):
So the fundraising is also falling behind. So Kovacs depends on donations from higher income countries and many rich countries are in funding Kovacs to the level. It needs to be funded too. The U S has given $0 to Kovacs. So there's a lot of room there as well for improvement. Yeah.

0 (13m 9s):
Is Covid is still alive or is this dream just like,

1 (13m 12s):
You know, it's absolutely alive and they're plugging away valiantly. And they recently announced an agreement with Pfizer for up to 40 million doses of the COVID 19 Vaccine and that they also expect to distribute even more doses of the AstraZeneca Vaccine but no nothing's really happened yet. So they've, they've said they're going to try to do this in the first quarter of 2021. And I guess the optimistic side says, yes, I really hope that they get it right. And, and that these doses start to go out to poor countries around the world, but we're seeing how slow the roll outs are in the countries that signed deals by a long time ago. So, so whether they actually are able to, to get all these vaccines out in the first quarter remains to be seen,

0 (13m 57s):
It is part of the problem with something like Kovacs that there's just no enforcement arm. It's just sort of honor system.

1 (14m 4s):
You used the analogy of the Paris climate accord, like countries are just agreeing to do something, but what they actually do in reality is often quite different.

0 (14m 13s):
Are there alternatives here to making sure that there's better global vaccine distribution than something like Kovacs?

1 (14m 21s):
Yeah. So there are alternatives. So the nonprofit Oxfam is saying, you know, countries should build these regional Vaccine production Hubbs to start to turn out vaccines at a lower price and the places where they're needed and where the production costs are lower. So basically, yeah, bringing the production to, to countries where the vaccines are in short supply. So that's one possibility of the vaccines we already have approved in the us. And in Europe faster is Anika Moderna Pfizer. They are partnering in some cases with other pharmaceutical companies even to, to speed up just parts of their production. But I think that the major point is that it's just not happening quickly enough.

1 (15m 4s):
We're we're in a pandemic we're already at the point of almost half a million deaths in the U S alone. And the pandemic continues to burn on. And in some cases accelerate with the new variants. So I think what people are calling for action are upset about is that we need this to happen a lot faster than, than what we're seeing right now.

0 (15m 24s):
And, and these solutions that, you know, necessitate building up facilities in Poorer countries or these partnerships that may eventually result in better vaccination around the world. These don't sound like things that will address this anytime soon, what can be done right now to address what the WHO is calling catastrophic moral failure.

1 (15m 46s):
The other thing that can be done is just the simple donating of Vaccine. So basically rich countries stopped porting instead of creating this situation where yeah, you have even like low-risk people within their countries is vaccinated. They start to donate vaccines after their high risk groups are vaccinated, and then they give access supply to Kovacs, which could then distribute it to other countries. There are a part of the partnership. And what we're seeing basically is it, that's not even part of the conversation, but actually there is one exception globally where we're seeing real leadership on this,

0 (16m 18s):
Which is it is that one of those Scandinavian countries.

1 (16m 21s):
So Norway, so they'd been a global outlier. They also WHO hoarded in some sense, they pre-purchased enough. Vaccine supply for something like three times their, their population. But then they decided to start giving the vaccines away in parallel with the Vaccine rollout, that's happening in their country. And I asked the minister of international development in Norway, how and why they were doing that. And they said they simply determined it was both ethical and in their self-interest to do the rollout. That way.

0 (16m 50s):
I know the difference between Norway and the rest of the world is Norway has a leadership that said, Hey, it would be pretty unfair if we just hoard it. All of these vaccines.

1 (16m 59s):
Exactly. That's based on the, it basically comes down to that. What Norway is talking about is the reality. This is a virus that if it's a threat somewhere, it's the threat everywhere. Julia blues as a senior health correspondent of box, you can read her reporting

0 (17m 25s):
On the Vaccine and the pandemic

1 (17m 27s):
At Vox dot com.