0 (1s):
This podcast is brought to you by Twilio, for businesses around the world, unlocking and unifying real-time customer data is critical, especially for delivering truly personalized campaigns at scale. That's why companies like Instacart into it. And IBM are turning to Twilio, which was recently ranked number one for 2020 market share and customer data platforms by IDC to learn how Twilio can help your business harness real-time data and build customer engagement like no other visit twilio.com,

1 (30s):
Cover story, a new investigative podcast by New York magazine. That's got a lot of people on edge. What is the number?

2 (36s):
The one rule we would all go. Don't your client.

1 (41s):
It's a gnarly personal look at the underground psychedelic therapy world and its boundary problems.

2 (47s):
All my clients try to have sex with me during these sessions. And I was like, I don't think I'm going to try to have sex with you. And he's like, yeah, yeah,

1 (57s):
We'll cover story. Season one, power trip, check it out on apple podcasts or wherever you listen.

4 (1m 12s):
2021 was another doozy of a year for the planet for the climate. There was the record shattering heat dome in the Pacific Northwest and just Northern Canada.

5 (1m 23s):
Police in Vancouver have responded to more than 130 sudden deaths. Since Friday heats is thought to have been a contributing factor. In most cases,

4 (1m 33s):
There were droughts as well as record-breaking floods in Europe and Asia.

6 (1m 38s):
The death toll from those devastating floods in Western Europe has climbed to more than 180, but it's expected to go much.

4 (1m 45s):
And there were wildfires just about everywhere.

7 (1m 49s):
<em></em> region is known for its lush mountains and forests, but scorching summer temperatures have reduced the trees to kindling. It's one of 16 provinces in the north African country. That's been hit by wildfires since Monday.

4 (2m 5s):
And then there was a high stakes climate conference in Glasgow. We covered cop 26 on the show back in November with Lumiere Irfan at box. The big goal is to have everybody at the table come forward with stronger commitments, ideally in line with what the Paris agreement set out and on the show today, we're going to hear from someone else who was there, who witnessed its failings and still remains hopeful. Somehow a climate justice activist from Kampala, Uganda named Vanessa nakatay.

8 (2m 38s):
Humanity will not be saved by promises. It's hard to believe business and finance leaders when they haven't delivered before they have not been faithful in their promises. They have not been honest in fulfilling their commitments. They have not been trustworthy in making the plagiarist our reality.

4 (2m 60s):
I asked Vanessa how it felt to be a comparatively young person fighting for climate justice among the most powerful old people in the world. She said it was exhausting,

8 (3m 10s):
Exhausting to do activism. I can speak for myself. Activism is a lot of work and I think it's really important. You know, when activists take some time off to rest, you know, some time for self care, because I believe that we can better take care of the planet if we ourselves are doing well.

4 (3m 32s):
So that's the first thing she did when she got back home to Kampala,

8 (3m 36s):
I've just really been resting because of so much work that was being done at the cope. When I got home, I just choose. I just chose to rest and get my strength and my energy back to push even harder for the coming year.

4 (3m 55s):
And for people who aren't familiar with you or your climate justice activism, tell me what about it can be so exhausting. What are you fighting for?

8 (4m 4s):
The climate crisis is making it impossible for many people, for many communities to adapt. You know, when people lose their homes to rising sea levels, when people lose their homes to landslides, these are things that they cannot get back. You know, a new home can be provided or, you know, a space in a camp to leave can be provided, but it isn't the same as a home. You know, when people lose the histories, they cannot be, you know, brought back or their couches. When we talk about the, the food insecurity that is rising because of that intensive droughts, because of the flooding that is washing away, you know, crops from people's farms, it means that many people won't be able to access food to eat.

8 (4m 53s):
It means that many people face a risk of starving to death. So you cannot adapt to starvation. You cannot adapt to, you know, extinction of species of animals. And that is what the climate crisis is doing in so many communities at the front lines.

4 (5m 13s):
And did you feel like the leaders of the world fully heard all that at cop 26? Did they understand these issues the way you presented them?

8 (5m 22s):
Maybe they were hard because we as activists, you know, we continued speaking in an outside the cope and using every platform and every opportunity that we got to talk about this issues

9 (5m 35s):
It's is not our job. Still. We have to be here. We have to ask our government to do action, which is their work.

8 (5m 44s):
It's one thing to be hard, but it's another thing for what you've saved to be considered all for action, you know, to be taken after what you have demanded for. So I am sure that, you know, many voices that spoke about climate justice that spoke about, you know, loss and damage, they were hard. But then the outcome of the conference shows us that everything that we were saying, or what we were demanding for, you know, was not considered. I believe that many leaders here are here for the show here. I don't think they actually care. I don't think I would say X amount of, for them to care that we saw a climate truck, a show that we are on a pathway of 2.4 degrees Celsius, you know, which is a death sentence for so many communities, which is devastation for so many people across the world.

8 (6m 38s):
This is what we saw come out of the cope. And again, it just feels like, you know, it was more empty promises, you know, more empty, you know, conferences, more empty phrases or clever and persuasive speeches that didn't really amount to anything

10 (6m 59s):
Turning to a PR event where leaders are giving beautiful speeches and announcing 10 C commitments and targets while hiding the cartons. The governments of the global north countries are still refusing to take any drastic climate action

8 (7m 17s):
Commitments. You're not saved the planet. Oh, pledges will not stop the warming of our planet and promises will not stop the suffering of people. So it was really important for, you know, government leaders to understand that only real option only real action would give us the change that we were asking for and Manning for. But we didn't get to see that, you know, with the outcome of the cope

11 (7m 45s):
China and the United States have announced they'll work together to keep temperature rises below 1.5 degrees Celsius. But the world's two biggest polluters have not given further details more than 100 nations agreed to cut methane emissions by 30%, but countries with major agricultural industries, such as Australia and China didn't sign up. They also failed to join a commitment by 40 countries to phase out cold packs.

4 (8m 11s):
Now that you've had a few weeks to rest and to look back on, on this huge conference that had these huge goals and fell short of them, what do you think of this, this process of getting the world's leaders together to make these sort of piecemeal agreements about the biggest problem the planet is facing? Do you think there's a better way?

8 (8m 34s):
Well, I think that, you know, the way has been very clear from the beginning, and this is what the young people or everyone else who is going to the streets, everyone else who is organizing and mobilizing, this is the way that, you know, we have been showing the leaders and governments, you know, showing them, you know, what the science is saying, showing them what communities I experiencing. Honestly, I can't think of any other way to talk about the urgency of the climate crisis, especially in the most affected areas.

8 (9m 18s):
So I think that, you know, me as an activist, probably other activists will just continue, you know, organizing and mobilizing and hoping that another world is possible for all of us. So I can say that, you know, there is a new, specific strategy that will get leaders to listen. Leaders are listening to us. Governments are listening to us, but it will take, you know, political wheel for us to see the change that we are demanding for. And this change will be pushed by the people. This change will be pushed by the power of the people who continue to organize and mobilize and just go to the streets and demand for climate justice.

8 (10m 1s):
So there is hope because people haven't given up yet

4 (10m 7s):
How Vanessa went from being ridiculed in the streets of Kampala to shaming the most powerful people in the world for their empty promises in a minute on today, explained

0 (10m 25s):
This podcast is brought to you by Twilio, for businesses around the world, unlocking and unifying real-time customer data is critical, especially for delivering truly personalized campaigns at scale. That's why companies like Instacart into it. And IBM are turning to Twilio, which was recently ranked number one for 2020 market share and customer data platforms by IDC to learn how Twilio can help your business harnessed real-time data and build customer engagement like no other visit twilio.com,

1 (10m 54s):
Cover story, a new investigative podcast by New York magazine. That's got a lot of people on edge.

2 (11m 0s):
What is the number one rule we would all go. Don't

1 (11m 4s):
Your clients. It's a gnarly personal look at the underground psychedelic therapy world and its boundary problems.

2 (11m 11s):
Oh, my clients try to have sex with me during these sessions. And I was like, I don't think I'm going to try to have sex with you. And he's like, yeah, you will

1 (11m 22s):
Cover story. Season one, power trip, check it out on apple podcasts or wherever you listen.

8 (11m 32s):
I am here to say, prove us wrong. I'm actually here to beg you to prove us wrong. God help us all. If you fail to prove us wrong, God help us. Thank you.

4 (11m 52s):
How old are you been? So can I ask that? Is that rude?

8 (11m 55s):
No, it's fine. I just done 25.

4 (11m 59s):
Incredible, incredible. You've done so much. And you're just 25 years old. How did you get to be a climate activist? Tell me your story before you were a climate activist.

8 (12m 9s):
But before I was a climate activist, I was about to graduate at Macquarie university business school. It's in Kampala in Uganda and I had studied business administration and majored in marketing. So before climate activism, I can say that I was a marketing student who was, you know, looking forward to doing a masters in business administration. After my bachelor's degree, I graduated in 2019. So a few months before that was in 2018, I, I started to do a lot of research about some of the challenges that people are facing.

13 (12m 55s):
And Uganda, the parliament has declared a state of emergency as the effect of the prolonged drought persist

14 (13m 2s):
Experience for customers affected by the recent revenue member floods in CAHSI, according to the head of victims, , they've not had food for the last month. We found about 30,000 people suffering with

13 (13m 19s):
The government, says five and a half million people are buckling food shortages. This means one in every seven Ugandans needs food assistance.

8 (13m 31s):
And Uganda as a country heavily depends on agriculture for survival, especially for so many people in the rural communities. So a lot of rain means it means rain of crops. It's full of so many people. It means starvation for so many people and also too much rain. It means destruction of farms or destruction of homes or destruction of businesses or destruction of schools and hospitals. And these are some of the things that we are already seeing happening in Uganda.

4 (14m 8s):
So tell me how you begin in activism. You see all of these catastrophic climate events in Uganda, and then what do you do

8 (14m 18s):
When I see these events and everything that I was, you know, reading from my research, I, I decided to, you know, find ways of creating awareness and, you know, being of help and just mining for climate action. And it was at the time that I saw the climate strikes that were started by Greta. So-and-so

15 (14m 41s):
Cool started in August this year. I decided that this was enough. I sat myself down on the ground outside of the Swedish parliament. I school strike for the climates. Some people say that I should be in school in instead. Some people say that I should study to become a climate scientist so that I can solve the climate crisis, but the climate crisis has already been sold. We already have all the facts and solutions. All we have to do is to wake up and change.

8 (15m 17s):
But then I, I was scared, you know, I was scared in the beginning to do the climate strikes because I've always been quite a shy person. And it's always been very hard for me to easily interact with people or to stand in front of people. And this meant standing on the street and having a placard and just having all this attention on new and so many people looking. So it would be embarrassing. And it would also be what students would call a walk of shame.

4 (15m 51s):
Is that because it's just really unusual to see a young woman doing activism and Uganda?

8 (15m 57s):
I think so indeed when I started activism, there was so much, you know, mocking from some of my former school mates or classmates, you know, mocking and laughing because they thought what I was doing was embarrassing. So as scared of all those things and the reactions from people that the comments that I saw myself when I had just started in the, in those first weeks and months, some of these comments were, you know, pupil saying how I was going to the streets to attract men or advise looking for a husband. I should just say that instead of, you know, standing on the streets and pretending to be an activist.

8 (16m 42s):
And I remember comments like me being, me being, being, I'm trying to find our phrasing it, but it was more of me taking weed. And that's what was taking me to the streets. And, you know, some coded, you know, trusted to showing disgust as climate activism. Yeah.

4 (17m 3s):
People thought you were on drugs or trying to engage in sex work because you were trying to do activism.

8 (17m 10s):
Yeah.

4 (17m 12s):
Oh my goodness.

8 (17m 17s):
Oh, the youth in Africa to rise up and ask for A few months after studying activism, I started feeling so frustrated about everything that was happening. I felt like after it's continued to go out every Friday and strike and you know, organized throughout the week. And I saw that the disasters of the climate crisis continued to happen and people continued to suffer. And I also saw that leaders continued to stay silent and not do anything about the time of crisis.

8 (18m 2s):
Time is now for our leaders to take climate action and to fight against the crisis that we are facing. Right now, I call upon all state leaders to declare a climate emergency in their respective countries. We have 54 countries in Africa, but none has declared climate emergency. So it was a place of feeling that what we were demanding for, we will never be able to see, or we will never be able to achieve because the leaders won't do anything about it. Now is the time to act and demand for climate action.

8 (18m 44s):
Thank you.

4 (18m 53s):
So how do you go from like, you know, an activist group of one to giving speeches to the most powerful people in the world?

8 (19m 1s):
Well, in those weeks I just kept sharing my work and what I was doing on social media. And one of the first invitation that I got, it was an invitation from the United nations to the youth climate summit, which was in New York in 2019. And I remember asking why I had got the invitation. And I remember being told that, you know, some people are following my walk and, you know, they were impressed by the work that I was doing in my country. And they thought it was important, you know, for me to join the rest of the young people at the youth climate summit.

8 (19m 43s):
So it's that, that was the first time that I went to a global summit, you know, about climate issues. And after that, I remember also going for the cop 25, I got an invitation to go for cop 25 in Spain, and then the world economic forum in Davos.

16 (20m 4s):
I do not want to reach the tipping point of either re-usability of climate change. And we do not want to leave behind to the next generations and ever more hostile and ever less happy little world.

4 (20m 21s):
So you reached this global platform, which sounds like this incredible success from, you know, feeling so isolated and alone when you first started out as an activist, but then you get to the world economic forum in Davos and wind up speaking alongside some pretty well-known climate activists only to find yourself cut out of the actual news coverage. She posted her photo with other activists in Davos, Switzerland. She

17 (20m 48s):
Was the only black woman among the five. And when the associated press published the photo, there were only four faces. They cropped her out of the picture. Vanessa nakatay tweeted, you didn't just erase a photo. You erased a continent, but I am stronger than ever.

4 (21m 4s):
Tell me about that experience.

8 (21m 7s):
I got an invitation to be at this press conference with other activists from Europe.

7 (21m 13s):
So really pleased to introduce in this order, Isabel, Axleson Louie Lucchino to Vanessa and a kata Gretta Turnberg Louis.

8 (21m 24s):
And I remember this press conference, you know, talking about the experience, you know, of so many people on the African continent when it comes to the climate crisis, emphasizing the importance of your listening to activists from the most affected areas. We need to look at climate justice from every perspective, because we all have a story to tell. But then later on, I, you know, I see this article and I find myself, you know, crop top because I was sure that I was in the picture and, you know, my message not included in the article.

8 (22m 6s):
So of course it was frustrating because I was thinking about what I had really emphasized in the press conference. And literally seeing that, you know, the opposite had been done and I was removed from this picture.

4 (22m 23s):
What did it mean to you to be cropped out of this photo? Why do you think it happened?

8 (22m 29s):
This is something that I would call a problem that is in a system that decides who, you know, who deserves to be listened to and who, you know, who doesn't deserve to be listened. So I think that's what happened.

4 (22m 43s):
Well, let's listen to what you had to say that

18 (22m 46s):
Why do you think it is that it is taking a, a young panel like yourself to actually get them to listen to these problems? And do you also think that you actually are being listened to, or do you think that they're sort of seniors or novelty that is good to listen to, but they're not actually going to take in anything that you say?

8 (23m 5s):
One thing I'm sure of is that they are listening to us. They listen to us, but they either choose to ignore or to do something about the demands that we are requesting for and for the business leaders and the people in power, they, they have the authority and all, or the guts to save us from this planet. So we've done all we've had to do, but it's all up to them. But one thing I'm sure of is that they're listening to us if they don't act it's because they're ignoring it.

4 (23m 38s):
So the world is now listening, but the question is, will the world act, you know, after your early ups and downs and ups downs in this fight, what do you think it will take for something significant to happen? Will things just have to get significantly worse than they are now.

8 (23m 54s):
Truth is that we don't need a specific, you know, climate disaster to show leaders that we are in a serious challenge or in a serious problem. I remember someone asking me whether, you know, we were doomed because of the climate crisis. And I remember, you know, telling them that when you ask that question to me, it comes from a place of privilege. So it's more of, you know, you're asking whether we are going to be doomed without considering that there's so many communities that are already suffering. Some of the worst impacts of the climate crisis.

8 (24m 37s):
We are facing the same storm of this crisis, but we are definitely in different boats. So we don't need a specific climate disaster to show that we are doomed. People are already experiencing intense droughts, floods, landslides, you know, how it runs and cycles that are devastating. The lives of so many communities that are devastating, the futures of so many children and you know, so many people. So the climate crisis is already evident. The science available is already evident, you know, and we, as activists, we continue to speak up.

8 (25m 18s):
So I think that, you know, what we just need to do is to just keep the momentum is to keep demanding for climate justice and not give up because in the end, the power of the people will always win.

4 (25m 35s):
Vanessa nakatay is a climate justice activist based in Kampala, Uganda. She's the author of a bigger picture, my fight to bring a new African voice to the climate crisis. Our episode today was produced by Matthew collect edited by Jillian Weinberger engineered by Paul mousey. And fact-checked by Laura Bullard and miles Bryan I'm Sean Ramez from it's today explained

19 (26m 28s):
Now streaming on HBO. Max, the HBO original limited series landscapers examines. What happens when a nearly perfect marriage meets a nearly perfect crime inspired by real events, landscapers stars, Olivia Coleman, and David Thewlis as a seemingly ordinary British couple who become the focus of a murder investigation. After two bodies are found in the garden of a Nottingham home created by debut screenwriter, ed Sinkler, and directed by Will's sharp. Before episode series paints, a picture of love and marriage with a dark twist, make sure to check out new episodes of landscapers every Monday on HBO max

1 (27m 7s):
Cover story, a new investigative podcast from New York magazine. That's uncovering some secrets from the psychedelic underground.

0 (27m 15s):
So basically in December of 2019, Dave got an email from this woman. Hi,

1 (27m 21s):
There I am a student at California

2 (27m 24s):
Institute of integral studies in the weekend program. I hadn't experienced in my first two years where I was essentially recruited by a TA into an underground guide training program.

0 (27m 35s):
She had been training to become a psychedelic therapist with Francoise and her husband in this underground training program that they had. And she'd already reached out to James Kent, another podcast, or that we know James,

2 (27m 47s):
Hi,

0 (27m 48s):
How are you? Because she was feeling really weirded out.

2 (27m 51s):
I felt like I woke up from something and I was like, who else is awake?

20 (27m 57s):
You're on speakerphone. Do you mind if I record this conversation?

2 (28m 2s):
W

0 (28m 3s):
I know listening to the tape of her, I was just sort

2 (28m 5s):
Of reaching out to you. Cause I'm like, it's happening.

0 (28m 7s):
It's really clear that she was trying to find other people who understood what she'd been through or who could see what she saw.

2 (28m 16s):
I appreciate it. If you didn't use my name or anything.

0 (28m 21s):
And eventually she was sent to us.

2 (28m 24s):
I was searching for anyone who like would get

0 (28m 28s):
And talking to her is actually what really kicked off our investigation.

1 (28m 33s):
The cover story, season one power trip on apple or wherever you live.