0 (1s):
In late May, a Christian woman got very mad at Chick-fil-A, so

1 (4s):
I'm grieving. It's lunchtime. I'm here with Aubrey, and we really wanted some Chick-fil-A, but because they decided to hire a diversity, equity, and inclusion corporate position and also bow down to the woke

0 (16s):
Lords because you know what she found out? Did you know this?

1 (18s):
Their chicken is funded by BlackRock and Vanguard. Are you kidding? Yeah.

0 (23s):
The critique of wokeness, the finger pointed at BlackRock and Vanguard. This is the language of Vva Ramaswamy. He's running for the GOP nomination. Almost certainly cannot win it, but with his attacks on woke capitalism, he's hurled himself into the national conversation in a way that you're Doug Burgum's and your Nicki Haley's and your Asa Hutchinson's might envy today. on today explained a conversation with Vva Ramaswamy,

1 (52s):
Chick-fil-A. You are no longer the Lord's chicken. You're actually the woke chicken

2 (60s):
Support

3 (1m 0s):
For this podcast comes from uny. Sometimes you'll hear people say, get your head out of the clouds. Well, Unisys disagrees. They say, keep your head in the clouds, keep dreaming and keep breaking through by getting your business to the best cloud you can. Unisys offers app modernization that helps companies move their apps to the cloud, build new cloud native apps, and unlock powerful insights and performance with uny Cloud solutions. The sky is not the limit, it's just the beginning of unlimited potential. It's the place where one breakthrough leads to another un Keep breaking through.

4 (1m 39s):
I'm so sorry, ma'am. I know you need this medicine, but it looks like it's not covered by your insurance.

5 (1m 45s):
Yeah, unfortunately I had to deny that one. Wait,

6 (1m 49s):
Who are you?

5 (1m 50s):
I'm your insurance company's pharmacy benefit manager. I get paid based on the price of a medicine and I don't make as much money off this one.

6 (1m 58s):
No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

0 (2m 15s):
I'm Noel King. It's today explained. Last week I sat down on Zoom with Vva Ramaswamy. He's running to be the Republican nominee for president of the United States. Ramaswamy is the 37 year old founder of a biopharmaceutical company, Rory Vent Sciences, and a son of Indian immigrants. He has a Harvard undergraduate degree and a law degree from Yale. And despite all of these successes, he is not polling well right now. Now

7 (2m 40s):
A look at the polls I'm running based on my national vision. That's actually what guides me. I'm an outsider in this race. That's what it means to an outsider. You start from the outside and you work your way to the top, but I'm guided by my vision of what it means to be an American. I think we lack a good answer to that question in our country today. I'm an unapologetic American nationalist. That means I believe in the ideals of the American Revolution, the ideals that set this country into motion 250 years ago, and I'm running to revive them and civic pride in our country in the process.

0 (3m 13s):
Do you have said repeatedly that this country is in a national identity crisis? What do you mean by that?

7 (3m 18s):
Sure. I think that if you ask most people my age, and I'm the first millennial ever to run for president as a Republican, by the way, I'm 37 years old. If you ask people in my generation what does it mean to be an American, you get a blank stare in response. We're hungry for purpose and meaning and identity. Yet the things that used to fill that void from faith to patriotism, to hard work, to family, these things have disappeared. That leaves a black hole in its wake, and when you have a black hole that runs that deep, that's when the poison begins to fill the void. We can debate what the poison is. I would put woke, transgenderism, climat, cism, depression, anxiety, a lot we can debate, but the poison fills the void.

7 (4m 6s):
And I think too often conservatives in the Republican party, frankly, including myself in the last few years, have been focused on stamping out the poison, focusing on what we're running away from. I think it's now time to turn our attention to what are we running to? That's what I'm running to lead is a national revival based on that vision,

0 (4m 24s):
Vivek Ramaswamy is an entrepreneur. He co-founded Strive Asset Management, a firm that has financial backing from Peter Teal and JD Vance among others, but he's never written a bill or voted to pass a law. He didn't serve in the military or in the foreign service. His bonafides are in business and he made his name criticizing what he refers to as woke capitalism. So we focused this interview, which took place a few days before Donald Trump was indicted again on his vision for the American economy.

7 (4m 53s):
Yeah, so if I'm gonna distill my vision into a clear commitment to what I'll actually get done in my eight years in office, the first thing I'm gonna do is shut down the administrative state. The second thing I'll do is declare independence from China, and the third thing that I'll do is revive civic pride in our country.

0 (5m 12s):
Tell me about China. What's the plan there?

7 (5m 15s):
Yeah, so I think that we're dependent on our enemy for our modern way of life. That's different than even what Reagan faced against the U S S R. They never put the shoes on our feet or the phones in our pockets. So what I favor is total economic decoupling from China. That doesn't mean we're able to bring it all to the us. I would wish to do that. We can't do that, but it does mean then opening up relations with our allies in the Pacific and around the Pacific, including Japan, South Korea, India, Vietnam, Taiwan, the Philippines, Australia, Brazil, and so on. And I think that this is an achievable vision where if we're able to stand up with the spine across the table from Xi Jinping, that's what I'm volunteering to do as our next president and say that unless you reform, unless you dramatically change your mercantilist practices, we are cutting the cord.

7 (6m 8s):
Then I predict Xi Jinping will fold, but if he doesn't, then we are willing and able to make that trade off. To say that we are still now independent from our top enemy. I also think it involves cutting off the Russia China Alliance, and I plan to use ending the Ukraine War in the peace treaty that I will strike with Russia as the trade for getting Russia to exit its alliance with China. I think that's significantly weakens China and deters war against the United States around the circumstance of Taiwan. That's a sweeping foreign policy vision that's different than you'll hear from candidates in either major party today. For me, it's part of my broader vision of being what I call a George Washington America first conservative, putting the country first, declaring independence from our foreign autocrats and more importantly, avoiding foreign entanglements that do not advance our national interest.

0 (7m 2s):
For the past couple of years, even before you were running for president, you made a bit of a name for yourself, taking aim or criticizing something that you call woke capitalism. Can you define for me what you mean? Yes, it

7 (7m 15s):
Is the merger of political agendas into the corporate functions of businesses, so the use of social and environmental and political agendas in corporate America's boardrooms to actually use other people's money to advance agenda that most capital owners did not actually want to advance. Broadly speaking, that's what I described in my first book, woke Inc. Which I wrote a few years ago.

0 (7m 37s):
Say that like a normal person though. I mean that was that there were a lot of words in there. Yeah, I'm

7 (7m 41s):
Sure take the whole book, explain it, but I can, I can, I can lay out very simply.

0 (7m 44s):
I'm the voter. Okay, I'm the voter. What are you talking about?

7 (7m 46s):
Well, I wanna say, I wanna clarify one thing. I wrote that book a few years ago, I'm running for president. This is not the heart of my campaign platform, but if you're asking me about what my book was about, I'll tell you what it was about. It means businesses pretend like they care about something other than profit and power precisely to gain more profit and power. They're blowing woke smoke to deflect accountability from the questions that they would rather not answer to their customers or to their shareholders or the people who would actually scrutinize those businesses in other ways. That's a sham. It's dishonest. It betrays both conservatives and liberals alike. It betrays the heart of the American experiment itself, which said that we settle our political differences through free speech and open debate in the public square where everybody's voice and vote counts.

7 (8m 34s):
Equally. What woke capitalism says is no a small group of business elites get to decide how we settle questions on climate change to racial justice instead, and I reject that vision, and that's not a left wing or a right wing point. That's a fundamentally American point.

0 (8m 50s):
Businesses though, do operate out of self-interest. This seems like an example of them doing it again. So, so the

7 (8m 56s):
Reality is businesses today, most publicly traded large businesses in the United States aren't really comprised of one actor. There are so-called shareholders that own those businesses, but I call them so-called shareholders because the shareholders who hold the shares in those companies are firms like BlackRock, state Street and Vanguard that aren't actually investing their own money. They're investing the money of everyday citizens, retirees, 401k plans across this country. And they're using that money of everyday Americans to vote for racial equity audits or environmental constraints that most of those everyday capital loaners are not aware of and do not agree with, and more importantly, which do not advance their best financial interests.

7 (9m 40s):
And so that's why you get this puzzling result where in many cases, businesses are taking steps that don't necessarily advance their best economic interests because a small group of financial institutions are using other people's money to advance social and political agendas. That, of course, begs the question of why those financial institutions aren't then acting in best financial interests of their shareholders. That would be curious. Well, the answer is because most of the money they're managing or much of it, the plurality of it comes from government actors like state pension funds like that at California or New York that tell those financial institutions that they don't get to manage that government pension money unless those financial institutions behave exactly the way that they do.

7 (10m 24s):
You

0 (10m 24s):
Have a problem with woke capitalism. I wanna ask you about capitalism though more broadly, right? For a generation, American companies sent jobs overseas that led to the hollowing out of American communities that led to some real problems in this country. So along comes an anti-globalization contingent and, and this could be illustrated by Donald Trump saying, stop sending American manufacturing jobs overseas, right? This was, and, and It is a real shift in the way we think about business in this country. Are you saying it's okay to send the jobs overseas as long as you're not selling Pride Merchandise?

7 (10m 56s):
Oh, oh, there, there's, there's really two different points in there, both of which I'm happy to address. I'm also happy for any business to follow its own stated mission, right? If your mission is to serve customers who want to buy pride Merchandise, I don't think it's the role of the state or anybody else, or me for that matter, to interfere with that business objective. What I have a problem with is when businesses deviate from that mission at behest of third party actors like BlackRock and State Street that are using other people's money without their permission to steer those businesses in that direction. That's where my problem is. Now, that's a different question about our perspectives on trade and protectionism and here, here there is some daylight between Trump and myself.

7 (11m 38s):
I agree with Trump on most of the America first agenda here. We have some daylight between us. I don't believe in protectionism for the sake of protectionism. I think that we should compete in a meritocratic economy. Bit

0 (11m 49s):
Of a sharper angle on my question. If an American company needs to ship jobs to Mexico to make its products cheaper, is that okay?

7 (11m 58s):
That is okay.

0 (11m 59s):
You and other Republicans make me wonder whether the Republican party is still the party of business. You, you and others have these frustrations and I listen to a candidate like you and I think, well, he's either Donald Trump or he is Ronald Reagan, and I can't figure out which is, is the Republican party still the party of business?

7 (12m 17s):
Well, I, I think that it's, it's, it is, I I, I empathize with your challenge because it's very different to put me in a box di difficult to put me in a box. I think there are elements of Reagan in my vision. There are strong elements of Trump, but I go back, I call myself a George Washington America first conservative, so, so I'm gonna resist the game of putting me in some box and analogizing me to somebody else. I'm running to lead us to the future. That's what I'm chasing, not chasing the past. I'm not anti-business. To the contrary, I've lived the full arc of the American dream because capitalism is, I believe, the best known system known to mankind to lift all people up, including people at the bottom up from poverty. I didn't grow up in money.

7 (12m 57s):
My parents came here with almost no money. I've built multi-billion dollar businesses. That is the American dream. I don't apologize for that. I think we should be proud of it. But I think the way that businesses are co-opted to advance political agendas, including foremost the political agendas of the ccp, I think is a real threat. And that's not capitalism, that's a Trojan horse disguised as capitalism. But the heart of what's in that Trojan horse is a political agenda. And whether that political agenda comes from a certain political movement here at home or more concerningly comes from the Chinese Communist Party across the Pacific. That's actually what I resist.

0 (13m 41s):
That was Vve c Ramaswamy running for the Republican nomination for the presidency of the United States. Coming up next, so is everyone else.

4 (13m 57s):
I'm so sorry ma'am. I know you need this medicine, but it looks like it's not covered by your insurance.

5 (14m 4s):
Yeah, unfortunately I had to deny that one.

6 (14m 7s):
Wait, who are you?

5 (14m 8s):
I'm your insurance company's pharmacy benefit manager. I get paid based on the price of a medicine and I don't make as much money off this one.

6 (14m 16s):
No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

9 (14m 27s):
By the way, do you remember who Trump appointed as a cybersecurity advisor? Once Bon a time? I

10 (14m 31s):
Don't know his grandmother.

9 (14m 32s):
Even worse. Giuliani.

10 (14m 34s):
Oh, right. Oh, that guy. Oh, good guy. His grandmother. I was correct. I correctly identified it.

9 (14m 40s):
I'm Naza. And that with the grandma joke was Kara Swisher. Today on our podcast on with Kara Swisher, we talked to a cybersecurity advisor for President Biden. And no, it's not Rudy Giuliani,

10 (14m 51s):
Thank goodness. It's actually Jen Easterly who's actually qualified. She's the director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency or sisa. She's

9 (14m 59s):
The tough job of preventing another SolarWinds or colonial pipeline attack and of protecting our critical infrastructure, including elections from both foreign and domestic threats.

10 (15m 7s):
It's a tremendously important job. And in fact, the last guy who had it was fired by President Trump for telling the truth. It's a very important episode and it's live now as we move into our 2024 elections. Search for on with Kara Swisher wherever you get your podcasts. Maybe

9 (15m 21s):
We should have Giuliani on the podcast too.

10 (15m 24s):
Maybe not.

11 (15m 34s):
2024 on today explained

0 (15m 36s):
Dave Weigel is a political reporter at Semafor. Dave is not a pundit. He's a real reporter and he's been spending a lot of time on the trail with Republicans who want to be president. I

12 (15m 46s):
Was at the Iowa Roast and ride in Des Moines where eight candidates spoke.

13 (15m 53s):
It is great to be back at the roast and ride. I rode and I roasted on the ride

12 (16m 2s):
And before this I was with Nick Haley, with Tim Scott as respectively. He launches campaign and she continued hers in New Hampshire. You've

14 (16m 10s):
Got biological boys playing in girl sports. It is the women's issue of our time. Where is everybody?

12 (16m 19s):
If I can get out with a candidate, I tried to do so. I

0 (16m 23s):
Wanna ask you about the candidate that I just spoke to. Vivek Ramaswamy. He would seem to have one or two advantages, including this very sticky, anti woke capitalism bid that is resonating with certain parts of the country. You've looked at the mall. Let me ask you about Ramaswamy in particular. How much is he resonating with voters out on the trail? Well,

12 (16m 42s):
He is gone from zero to low single digits, which is all you can ask for as a startup candidate like him. The model he is following, I think was built by Pete Buttigieg in 2020, which is be very accessible to the media, be very present in front of voters and say things that they're interested in. The difference was Buttigieg was trying kind of an Obama way to look as electable and as broad appealing as possible.

15 (17m 8s):
I believe in this country because America uniquely holds the promise of a place where everyone can belong.

12 (17m 15s):
Whereas Ramas Swami's argument is he's running on a MAGA Plus agenda that he says is just going to be so popular that the party will win by a landslide.

7 (17m 24s):
You might disagree with each other about corporate tax rates or about whether ivermectin treats covid, but those are details

0 (17m 30s):
Off the top of your head. Can you list for me those who are running in the Republican presidential primary?

12 (17m 36s):
Yes. Vivek is the easy one to name. Thank you for that. And Donald Trump. Ron DeSantis officially in it. Nikki Haley officially in it. Mike Pence, ASL Hutchinson, the former governor of Arkansas.

16 (17m 51s):
I'm convinced that people want leaders that appeal to the best of America and not simply appeal to our worst instincts.

12 (17m 59s):
Steve Laffy, the former mayor of Cranston who is running, but I've yet to see him in person. Anything we need

17 (18m 4s):
Someone who's a financial expert now who has the business acumen,

12 (18m 7s):
Larry Elder, the conservative author, radio host, if you

18 (18m 11s):
Like the America first agenda. But you want a vehicle who has not turned off suburban women. I'm your man,

12 (18m 18s):
Harry Johnson, who's a a quality inspection businessman.

19 (18m 21s):
I am pro-life pro-Second Amendment, anti woke, anti-China,

12 (18m 26s):
Tim Scott, Sandra from South Carolina.

20 (18m 29s):
We must protect the America we love and that starts with our southern border. It is time to build a wall and close our southern border.

12 (18m 40s):
Those are the the key candidates except, and I should have mentioned Chris Christie's getting into this. Did

21 (18m 46s):
He ever do this with you? Did Donald Trump come to New Hampshire seven years ago and stand in the middle of the room and take any question from anybody without knowing who you were or what your question was gonna be? Oh no. There's

12 (18m 59s):
A lot of people like Christie, like these other candidates who say, well, I can break through and be the anti-Trump candidate. I don't believe that anyone else in this race can pull it off.

0 (19m 12s):
Dave. How did the large Republican field react to the news last week that Donald Trump had been indicted again? Well,

12 (19m 18s):
With one exception with, that's aa Hutchinson, the former governor of Arkansas. Every Republican condemned some part of this indictment. Whether it looked bad and It said a bad precedent, that was kinda the Mike Penn's position or whether it was just a total miscarriage justice. That's the VEC Ramaswamy position. What we

7 (19m 35s):
See right now is a ruling party in our country that will stop at nothing. Even using police force to arrest its political opponents

12 (19m 44s):
To most of people competing with Donald Trump, who want him to not be the nominee, want themselves to be the nominee. They took the Trump position, the modified version of the Trump position, that this should not be happening.

22 (19m 55s):
I think there needs to be one standard of justice in this country. Let's enforce it on everybody and make sure we all know the rules. You

0 (20m 3s):
Can't, if you're looking at the guys in the lead, Donald Trump and Ron DeSantis, you have to be thinking each one of those guys has a weakness. What is it for Trump? What is it for DeSantis? Or am I entirely wrong? And they're not like, no, no, this guy, this guy doesn't have one weakness. This guy is just weak in general.

12 (20m 21s):
Well, they have a couple with with DeSantis. They're, they're grasping around. Nobody's figured it out yet. The basic one, which I think you see echoed in the press, is that DeSantis is not very warm. How are you doing? You

23 (20m 32s):
Guys are, wow, look at this you guys. How are you guys? Good to see you. What? You guys go right over here? Yes. Okay. Come on. Good deal. Good deal.

12 (20m 41s):
The other is that he is too conservative to really come over and, and you see in some public polling, as DeSantis has gotten better known, viewers have started to see him as more conservative. He's gotten a little less popular, they'll say, and Chris Nunu who said he is not gonna run Governor New Hampshire, I think is the, the most explicit about this. That just the stuff he's doing, the six week abortion ban, the battle with Disney, they're just convinced that stuff is gonna be a loser in a national election.

24 (21m 9s):
I don't like the woke. We, we need to stand up and fight woke and cancel culture. But you don't penalize private businesses cuz they disagree with you politically.

12 (21m 16s):
They are not sure in their minds, in their arguments how you can win the Midwest if that's what you're known for, if that's what you're talking about all the time. I've seen him with some conservatives who like DeSantis, why can't he talk a little bit more about the economy, a little bit less about that? Hmm. And with Trump, he has this hardcore base. The candidates know they're not gonna break into that base. There's nobody who's gonna convince the, you know, the front row MAGA supporter, the guy who shows up to 50 Trump rallies, they're going to stay with him. But most Republican base electorate, the voters who maybe skip some primaries but come and turn out for others, they like him mostly, but are not necessarily wedded to voting for him again.

12 (21m 57s):
And there's a small share Republicans and we're, we're talking like 30%, sometimes less, that do not like Trump and think there should be another candidate and you meet them. If you're out on the trail talking to Republican voters, you do meet people. And I, I don't think they're trying to flatter reporters. When we asked about it, they really think he didn't need to lose the 2020 election. He lost it because of mistakes he made and because of an attitude that was very good for content. I think very good for cliques, but didn't serve him very well. That's the argument people are making to themselves. And they think they can beat Trump is, look, there's enough of that opinion out there that if they meet me and they see how broad I'm trying to appeal to the country and how nice I am, Dick Haley is somebody I think who makes this really explicit, then yeah, they're gonna go for me.

12 (22m 38s):
Is

0 (22m 39s):
A field this big to Donald Trump's advantage?

12 (22m 43s):
Yeah, the size of the field definitely helps Donald Trump. I, I think there are efforts to calculate how much of the Republican party is his base, how flexible they are. A lot of people will flatter themselves and say, well maybe it's, it's 30% and I can get the rest of it. I, Chris Christie in New Hampshire announcing his campaign, challenged the premise that there was such a thing as a Trump voter. He

21 (23m 2s):
Doesn't own them. He didn't take title to them, by the way, I voted for him twice. Okay, am I a Trump voter then? Hell no man.

12 (23m 13s):
It's very clear from polling and it's accentuated when he is in legal trouble that most the Republican party really likes Donald Trump. Would not mind if he was president again. It just has some concerns about electability. There's

25 (23m 25s):
Some new polling out this morning on former President Trump's favorability with voters. And this poll was conducted after the indictment was announced. and It appears to show some good news for Trump.

12 (23m 35s):
And in that climate, every candidate who presents an alternative diviv up the vote against Trump. And as we saw over the last few days, sometimes just amplifies Trump, sometimes just in the race, race, getting some of the name for themselves, but adding one more voice to this chorus saying that what happens to Trump is unconscionable, illegal, unconstitutional, et cetera, which helps him. So you have something almost unique in the years I've been covering these presidential campaigns of opponents of a candidate attacking the legal system for creating problems for their opponent.

0 (24m 7s):
If these candidates who poll at 1%, 2%, 4%, if it is really unlikely that any of them is going to win, why do they run?

12 (24m 19s):
No one will say, I'm doing this just for media attention. That might be the the end result. I mean, there are people whose political careers were over, like Brick Santorum, who gained years of relevance by running for president. Even though when they got in the race, they did not have a hardcore plan of how to win it. So I think Ramaswamy, who I've talked about a couple times, does he wanna be president? I think he does. Would he be happy if after this race is over, he's in the cabinet or strive his anti world capital firm has a lot of new clients. I don't think that would be bad. And I think there are candidates like Hutchinson who really believe that they should be president, that they could do the job well, and that somebody needs to speak out against the lurch and the party towards just defending Trump all the time. Everyone in the race will say they want to be president.

12 (25m 2s):
But both those people I just mentioned have such a tough road ahead that they really think we need a few things to break our way. We need Donald Trump to be so damaged that he can't really be the nominee. We need Ron DeSantis to alienate people and that's our path. That's the answer there, is that there are people who maybe doesn't make sense right now that they could ever win the nomination. They think of a few things happen and they're in the right position. They are have introduced themselves, run ads toward Iowa, met people that they can inherit the Republican electorate. That's their theory.

0 (25m 44s):
That was reporter Dave Weigel of Semafor. Today's show was produced by Miles Bryan and edited by Matthew Collette. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Patrick Boyd. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.