0 (1s):
This is advertiser content.

1 (4s):
Facebook leads the industry in stopping bad actors online that's because they've invested $13 billion in teams and technology to enhance safety. Over the last five years, it's working in just the past few months, they've taken down 1.7 billion fake accounts to stop bad actors from doing harm, but working to reduce harmful and elicit content on their platforms is never done. Learn more about how they're helping people connect and share safely and about.fb.com/safety

0 (42s):
It's should I explained I'm Sean Rama's from the entire world is fixated on Ukraine, but not just on Ukraine. People are fixated a F on the countries. Comedian actor turned president Volodymyr Zelensky Zelenskyi is kind of made himself the main character of this story. And today on the show, we're going to figure out how exactly he did that. And we're going to get to hear from someone in the middle of the war and someone very far away from it in Los Angeles. Let's start in Ukraine.

3 (1m 13s):
I left Katie of a couple of days ago, and I will probably not mentioned the exact location, but I'm in Ukraine and planning on returning to cube.

0 (1m 23s):
This is Alexi Sorokin. He's the political editor at the key of independent. I asked him if he thought his comedian president would make a good leader in,

3 (1m 34s):
Well, we had our doubts, but now the way he handles the situation, it's obviously beyond everyone's expectations. And we're, we're so happy. A lot of us that we were wrong.

0 (1m 49s):
Who is he before he becomes a comedian? What's his early life? Like what are his roots?

3 (1m 54s):
Selenski is from <em></em> that's a small town in the middle of Ukraine. I would say there wasn't anything special about his upbringing or his life prior to him becoming a famous Ukrainian comedian.

4 (2m 14s):
Cool. Yeah, I lead the <em></em> <em></em>

3 (2m 26s):
He also founded a production studio and has production studio was very successful in Ukraine. They produce TV shows, films. Most of them are comedy movies. So he was a very successful TV personality. Nobody would expect him to be where he is right now. A couple of years prior to running his production studio created a TV series called servant of the people, which is now the name of his party, where Zelenskyi played a school teacher who by accident suddenly became president And was tasked with defeating corruption and all the garlics and solving Ukrainian problems.

4 (3m 31s):
Yeah, <em></em> <em></em> <em></em>

3 (3m 39s):
This was a hit TV series, and many people decided to support Zelenskyi after this. So

0 (3m 50s):
When he's running for president, what is his pledge to the Ukrainian people?

3 (3m 56s):
He never campaigned on a, on a slogan. I'm a funny guy. Everybody likes me. His main campaign promises was first stopping the war. Russia has invaded Ukraine back in 2014, occupied Crimea launched a war in Donbass. That was his number one promise. And the second campaign promise was the corruption because Petro Poroshenko, the former president, he was seen as part of the establishment. There was corruption of probes all around him. So he was this established, allegedly corrupt politician and Zelenskyi basically United all the protest boats around him.

3 (4m 42s):
And it was able to completely dismantle the Ukrainian political system

0 (4m 48s):
Almost as soon as he took office, president Zelensky was in the middle of a political scandal, but it wasn't as political scandal in Ukraine. It was a political scandal in the United States.

5 (4m 59s):
Perfect. That call was perfect. It was on that call. President Trump told the Ukrainian president, I would like you to do us a favor and asked him to investigate a debunked conspiracy theory about democratic emails.

0 (5m 10s):
What did Ukrainians think about the now infamous quote unquote perfect phone call president Zelensky had with the former president of the United States

3 (5m 21s):
Impeachable probe of prison. Donald Trump was the first major political scandal for Zelenskyi. And obviously he wasn't ready for that attention.

4 (5m 36s):
Sure. That we had, I think, good phone call to us normal. We spoke about many things. And so I think, and you are at it that nobody push it pushed me. Yes, no pressure.

3 (5m 54s):
The international public international meeting had Zelenskyi in the spotlight and this was the first major task that Zelenskyi had to solve. But I wouldn't say that it had some kind of influence on Ukrainian domestic politics. It had major influence on Ukrainians foreign politics, especially the relations with the United States, but in Ukraine, many people wouldn't even notice it.

0 (6m 25s):
How was this presidency going immediately before the invasion was he seen as a competent leader? Was he seen as a strong opponent of LATAM?

3 (6m 37s):
Interestingly, he entered a very Rocky time in terms of domestic politics has presidential ratings and his party ratings were decreasing. He was still the most popular politician in Ukraine, but not because of his own policies, but because he didn't have a strong opponent,

0 (7m 2s):
Why was his popularity waning? At the time

3 (7m 5s):
He promised so much and people had, their hopes were so high and obviously Zelenskyi and his party, most of whom had zero political experience. Couldn't cope with that. The most notable example was the judicial reform and multiple corruption scandals inside his party. If you're a,

6 (7m 28s):
A man of principles. Yes. Why you working for a man who the anti-corruption authorities say has stolen all this money from the people of this country,

3 (7m 38s):
Every new political scandal or problem, but on his electoral support,

0 (7m 45s):
Let's just talk about the moment Russia's invading Ukraine one week ago. Do people look to each other and go, oh no, we voted for the comedian or, or do they feel confident?

3 (7m 57s):
I think nobody was asking that question. The moment Russia invaded, because the first emotion that everybody had was shocked Zelenskyi. Yes. Is the commander in chief. But I think most people had high hopes for the Ukrainian military, the military staff and the Lensky was their second thought. And how

0 (8m 20s):
Does the Lensky become everyone's first

3 (8m 23s):
Thought? Well, the way he reacted, the way he led the army during the first several days has constant video addresses his willingness to stay in queue, which is bombarded by Russia. He was able to show the world that maybe he wasn't the best peace time leader. He's the perfect wartime New York that we now know that Zelenskyi will do everything he can to lead crane through this slow.

3 (9m 12s):
He was able to show the world that you're creating has a strong leader and Ukrainians are ready to fight. And he was able to gather international support. I think that if Zelenskyi would flee or if the Ukrainian defenses were breached early on, then Ukraine wouldn't have gathered all those sanctions against Russia, financial aid, military aid. I think the world now sees that Ukraine is ready to fight and the world is ready to help crane fight this war because of Zelensky

7 (9m 55s):
. This is advertiser,

8 (10m 37s):
Facebook safety teams protect billions of people each month. They lead the industry in stopping bad actors online that's because they've invested more than $13 billion in the last five years, quadrupling their safety and security teams to 40,000 people and investing in industry leading AI technology to enhance safety on their platforms it's working. And just the last few months they've taken action on 1.7 billion fake accounts, 30 million violent and graphic posts, 32.8 million explicit adult posts, 7.1 million terrorism related posts, and 3.8 million drugs and firearms sales posts, but working to reduce harmful and elicit content on their platforms is never done. Keeping your feed safe will continue to be everyone's priority at Facebook.

8 (11m 19s):
Learn more about how they're helping people connect and share safely at about.fb.com/safety.

9 (11m 37s):
Oh, come on, Mr. <em></em> can I connect you with,

0 (11m 43s):
We were back. We just spoke with Alexi about Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky his transition from sort of fumbling peacetime president to outstanding president, but we want to figure out what exactly it is about his video testimonials and his place in the culture right now. That is so impactful. So we're turning to Emily. Vanderwerff, she's a cultural critic here at Vox, and she recently wrote about this very thing, Emily, what's your,

10 (12m 13s):
I am so glad that we've turned to me, a white American lady to talk about this instead of a Ukrainian, but I mean, I have been consuming his videos like anybody else, and I've been like very impressed by them. And I think that people who think a lot about politics and I include myself in that number are people who often discount the value of creating the content that goes into politics, of being a great performer of being someone who's comfortable on camera of being someone who knows how to make the images that go on camera. And that is something that upload a mirror is the Lensky is really good at. He's been doing it since he was a teenager. He's been on television since he was in his twenties. He's been a comedian and a performer and an actor and all of these things and like everything you can see sort of going into the videos he's making, which are just like very well-made and very well done.

10 (13m 4s):
And he's very good on camera and you're compelled by him in a way. You're not a lot of politicians who are more obviously state

0 (13m 11s):
And the internet loves to celebrate Zelensky is back catalog these days, for those of us who aren't on the internet, 24 7, can you run us through some of his, his greatest hits?

10 (13m 23s):
Yeah. He's been in a whole bunch of movies. Mostly. They seem to be like kind of romantic comedies. His breakthrough role was like playing a supporting player in somebody else's movie, which is a classic way for guys to break into the movies and romances. He was the voice of Paddington bear in Ukraine.

12 (13m 52s):
I don't please came yet. Oh,

10 (13m 58s):
Thing that has made me think all world leaders should be required to voice Paddington within the country that they're in charge of. I think that would, that would maybe heal the planet. He's done sketch comedy. He's hosted sketch comedy shows. There is a briefly viral sketch of him playing the piano with his penis. So he said, and he was on dancing with the stars and like, there's this video of him just being like very dramatic and very dancy with his partner. And it's like so fun to watch. And that's like just kind of scratching the surface. I think the most notable example is that he played the president of Ukraine from 2015 to 2019 on a show called servant of the people where he played a high school teacher who becomes president.

10 (14m 50s):
He's going to be the, the good guy, all of that. And it's of course a very silly comedy. And so when he won the presidency, you know, there was sort of this, well, he played the president on TV and now he's the president in real life. And I think that that was kind of, kind of a joke. I

0 (15m 7s):
Think we at least chuckled about it on this show.

13 (15m 10s):
You could have put up maybe a penguin or a camel or dog or a random person, and they would have won this.

10 (15m 17s):
I remember this happening because it was sort of novel and interesting and fun, I guess. And now like we're seeing, we're seeing the good side of what happens when a politician is really good at television when we are so used to either a really staged politicians or B people like Donald Trump who have understood that television is best when you're just sort of feeding it red meat. And we've seen the other way that politicians who are good at television can go, which is just like sort of constantly throwing things out there and seeing what happens.

0 (15m 50s):
You brought up the former president because it's not like this idea of a celebrity politician is unprecedented. There's, there's that guy there's Arnold Schwartzenegger there's Ronald Reagan, Dr. Oz is trying to make it work. Jesse Ventura. What makes Volodymyr Zelensky different in this moment?

10 (16m 9s):
I do think it's the moment more than it is the man. It's the fact that Ukraine is in the midst of this invasion from a larger world power, which makes us naturally sort of sympathetic to him and naturally think of him as this person. He's, you know, he's trying, he's doing his best. And like, this is such a difficult situation to be in. And he's leaning into that. First of all, he's just a really good wartime speechmaker

14 (16m 40s):
They don't know a thing about our Capitol about our history, but they all have orders to erase our history. It raise our country, it raised us all.

10 (16m 51s):
He gets up there and he says things that are compelling. And he often kind of says them off the cuff. There's a video of him in the streets of Kiev. After the Russian media was like, well, he's fled Ukraine,

4 (17m 3s):
The revenge leader fracture, all of our president.

10 (17m 8s):
He made a video where he's in the streets of Kiev with much of his cabinet and they're all just kind of hanging out and just like be in bros. And he frames it, using the camera on his phone, like it's, you know, kind of a bunch of like guys hanging out at a college party, except they're in the streets of Kiev during a war. And like, it is so compelling because I think we're so used to countries, waging war, and then leaders being very far away from it. Certainly if Bladimir Putin is not on the front, on the other side. And certainly, you know, when, when the United States is involved in an invasion of somewhere or in a war of some sort, the president is not showing up to like be there, present for the main fighting.

10 (17m 52s):
But I keep coming back to this video. He made very early in the conflict, which was a direct plea to the Russian people. And it's worth noting that for most of his movie career, he was working in Russian. So his films were being shown in Ukraine, but also in Russia, that's a big part of why this, this video works because he's addressing people who know who he is a little bit But a thing I really think has gone under remarked upon about the video is that it is not framed in the way we think of it. As he's standing off to the left of a blurred out image of Ukraine, a map of Ukraine in the background, and he's delivering straight to camera, he's delivering it.

10 (18m 41s):
Like he's a newscaster basically automatically you are in a place where it feels authoritative because we have this sort of subconscious relation to the newscaster guy stepping in and telling us what's really going on. It feels authoritative and it feels approachable and it feels human in a way. It doesn't when for instance, president Biden is standing behind a podium or sitting at the desk in the oval office, which is an image we're so used to that. We kind of tune it out.

0 (19m 15s):
This isn't just effective politics right now. I mean, this is veering, quite fittingly, I guess, considering his background into entertainment. I mean, people on the internet are thirsting for president Zelensky no,

10 (19m 27s):
Yes. There have been some horny tweets and tick talks.

15 (19m 31s):
It's not the time or place to have a crush on president Zelensky,

10 (19m 38s):
But, and that has added up to a lot of people being online and saying, you know what, a hot guy, y'all got one thing to

16 (19m 46s):
Say,

10 (19m 50s):
Like, I've seen criticisms of this as being inappropriate or, you know, cringe or whatever, from an audience that is not affected by this, this conflict.

17 (20m 1s):
This is just your gentle Southern mama reminder that president Volodymyr Zelensky is married. I'm specifically talking about all of the naughty videos. Don't act like you don't know what I'm talking about,

10 (20m 12s):
But like this veers into an area where when big, bad, scary things happen, our brains get distracted by things that are not the big, bad, scary thing. And Dolinsky has placed himself in a place where he can be the object of we'll make him our hero. We'll make some jokes about his old comedy and his old performances. We'll get really drawn into him as a person and an inevitable offshoot of that as horny tweets. And like, I don't feel like shaming anybody for those, you, you have your emotional reactions to the scary world that you have. And I don't know, maybe you don't tweet about it.

0 (20m 46s):
Yeah. I mean, it's to remember that ultimately what we are enjoying when we enjoy as a Lenski video is war time propaganda.

10 (20m 56s):
Yes. And like we're in a situation where kind of one of the, like one of the acceptable reasons to wage a war and putting heavy air quotes around that is if your country is invaded by a larger country, by a foreign power, by someone who is pushing in and trying to incur upon your territory and take over your territory, which is exactly what's happening to Ukraine. So in terms of like propaganda, he doesn't have like a very large hill to climb. He just kind of has to be like, Hey, this is not good. And we're fighting back. And we're like, yeah, that makes sense. So I think that that is a big part of why it works. But yeah, and like, when I say propaganda, there's such a dirty word, quality to that word, but I also think it's propaganda toward a cause that is a fundamentally sympathetic one for most of the people watching it and like propaganda, isn't always bad to be clear.

10 (21m 50s):
He's being invaded by a much larger army. He doesn't have a lot of weapons at his disposal, but he's really good at being on camera. So here's the weapon he can use and it's working.

0 (22m 2s):
He lacks in army. He makes up for in propaganda. Whereas at least in the west, it would appear that what Russia has an army. It really seems to lack in propaganda,

10 (22m 16s):
Which I think if you had asked anybody three weeks ago, who's going to win the PR war here. You would have said Putin because Putin has a, just a tremendously large, usually effective propaganda operation. He sends out all of those shirtless photo ops where he's, you know, trying to be the world's most masculine mask. Man. I do think three weeks ago we would have thought, oh, Russia is gonna win the PR war two because they, they also have a massive global media operation. Ukraine doesn't have a similar element. So it is really remarkable. And it really comes down to his skills as someone who's good at being on camera as someone who's good at making things as someone who is good at filmmaking and as a cultural critic, what can I say?

10 (23m 5s):
But I mean, hurrah,

0 (23m 16s):
Emily. Vanderwerff, she's a cultural critic here@box.com earlier in the show you heard from Alexi Sorokin from the Kia independent, you can find his work@kippindependent.com. The show today was produced by will read edited by Matthew Collette engineered by a theme Shapiro. And fact-checked by Laura Bullard. The rest of the today explained team includes Halima Shah, Hottie <em></em> Victoria Chamberlain and miles. Brian, our supervising producer is Amina Alsada. My cohost is Noel king Box's VP of audio is Liz Kelly Nelson. We use music by Breakmaster cylinder and no I'm hasn't felt we had extra engineering help from Louie Mitchell last week, but I'm thanking him now.

0 (24m 5s):
Thanks Louis SLU. Good. This is advertiser content.

8 (24m 31s):
Facebook has invested $13 billion in teams and technology to enhance safety over the last five years. And the past few months they've taken down 1.7 billion fake accounts. Learn more about their ongoing work at about.fb.com/safety.