2 (2s):
This episode is brought to you by US Cellular. There's never been a better time to switch to US Cellular because now when you do you'll get 50% off select new smart phones like the Samsung Galaxy S 10 e or the Google pixel for a great choice on a great phone now, that's fair US Cellular choose Fair terms apply.

3 (31s):
It's Wednesday, April 8th 2020 and we lost John Prine last night. I'm Sean Rama's firm and this is your coronavirus update from today explained. If you don't know John chances are you know his music he was your favorite songwriters favorite song writer. John would have said he was in heaven before he died on Tuesday due to covid-19 complications at the age of 73.

2 (1m 14s):
Thunder where desire it's all house what I burned down a long time ago make me late make me a poster of a tall Rodeo. Just give me one thing that I can hold on to. To believe in this live and it's just a hard way to go.

3 (1m 54s):
Bernie Sanders dropped out of the race for president today. It's officially the Donald and Joe show. So pour one out for Bernard the daily death toll from this coronavirus in the United States peaked on Tuesday with nearly two thousand fatalities in one day. We've lost roughly 13,000 Americans in this pandemic at this point with something like 400,000 confirmed cases nearly a third of people living in apartments in the United States didn't make April rent according to an organization that tracks these kinds of things. Pretty clear that people will need more help from the government Democratic leaders announced today that they want 250 billion dollars in aid for food programs States and hospitals on top of 250 billion.

3 (2m 36s):
The Trump Administration has asked for to support businesses Democrats also want to make sure half of that business stimulus will be reserved for businesses owned by Farmers veterans people of color and women, which is probably for the best because new data from the labor department suggests the majority of of jobs lost so far in this country were held by women and if it wasn't official before it is now the coronavirus has hit Rural America the New York Times reports that more than two-thirds of the country's rural counties are now reporting cases with one in ten counties reporting at least one death. The case rate has more than doubled in the last week. I think that's enough bad news for now. Here's a little more John Prine before we start the show.

3 (3m 26s):
When I get to heaven, I'm going to shake God's hand thanking for more blessings than one man can stand. Then I'm going to get a guitar and start a rock and roll band checking to a swell Hotel anything after life Grand and then I'm gonna get a

2 (3m 45s):
cocktail vodka and ginger ale yeah, I'm gonna smoke a cigarette. That's Nan miles long. I'm gonna kiss that pretty girl on the Tilt the world was this old man is going to town.

3 (4m 4s):
Shawn Johnson here the capital bureau chief for Wisconsin Public Radio on Tuesday, Wisconsin held a primary. Why did Wisconsin do that

4 (4m 28s):
Wisconsin did that because it was in our state law. This was not just a president. Shall primary. This is an election for a number of races like state supreme court race hear a lot of local races like mayor we have County Executives here. And so those are all on the ballot. And so if the election was going to be moved it was going to take an agreement from our governor a Democrat and our legislature, which is run by Republicans that didn't happen. And so the ultimate product was people went out to vote on Tuesday despite regular objections from Um state government and from federal government to avoid large crowds like the ones you saw

3 (5m 10s):
yesterday and to be clear here Wisconsin has stay-at-home orders in place like much of the rest of the country.

4 (5m 16s):
Yeah, definitely. So it's been a few weeks. Now since our governor closed dine in service at restaurants and bars schools have been closed for a few weeks. Now the state stay-at-home order has been in place for a while. So there are still a lot of places like grocery stores. A lot of retailers manufacturers a lot of places that are open but we are under a stay-at-home order and we're warned on the regular to avoid large Gatherings those limitations did not apply to the election though. You know, this is a point of some contention in Wisconsin as you saw long lines of people in Milwaukee and Green Bay and particular going out to vote

3 (5m 58s):
before we get to how the actual primary went yesterday. Tell us more about the fight to get there because it kept getting bigger and bigger and bigger and more dramatic. Why was there such a fight about this election? Why wasn't everyone in the state just on board with doing it a little later like we've seen across the country.

4 (6m 20s):
I think you have to go back a few weeks at that point. This is when our governor democrat Tony Evers was first closing things down and he was asked at that point. What about the election the governor? Told 12 News unless a judge intervenes. The election next week is on

2 (6m 39s):
its extreme for everybody. I give that but using today as an example. We will have an election on April 7th.

4 (6m 50s):
And so his position at that point was the same is our Republican legislative leaders. Do the election will get it done. We have to do this because we have to have continuity of government as the covid-19 pandemic. Evolved in people's views on a devolved Governor Tony Evers changed and so he began to push for a move to a mail-in

3 (7m 14s):
election. He

4 (7m 17s):
tried to call the legislature into special session a week ago to deal with this. There's only so much he can do on that front, you know, he can call them into a special session. He can't force them to act and so they you know, they had somebody gavel in and gavel out of the session because they didn't support his move. To delay the election until June and move it to an almost entirely mail-in election where if you're a registered voter in Wisconsin, you get sent a ballot. So that was the case this week this Monday and then eavers decided to take the extraordinary Act of calling for an executive order to try to block the election himself.

2 (7m 59s):
I cannot in good conscience that by and do nothing the bottom line is that I have an Obligation to keep people safe and that's why I saved a sign this executive order

4 (8m 10s):
today the Republican legislature appealed that decision about four hours later our state supreme court which is run by it. We don't have technically Republicans and Democrats in the court, but it has a big conservative majority. They ruled against the governor said he had overstepped his authority and that was that now it's when we knew the election was going

3 (8m 30s):
to happen. So how did that go and practice yesterday? What did it look like when people had to choose between voting and potentially dying? I mean I have mixed emotions about it. I think I'm I'm concerned not enough people will get out to vote just because it's a sort of almost taking a backseat to

2 (8m 50s):
Public Health crisis going

4 (8m 51s):
on. I will tell you that elections in Wisconsin are very localized and so I'm based in Madison, Wisconsin. I went to a few polling places yesterday. It was pretty quiet it. Surreal because you had poll workers wearing a lot of protective gear, you know masks goggles gloves plexiglass face shields for some poll workers. Those were provided by you know, the city government in Madison. So especially prepared really where I was there were no lines. There was a lot of space for people to vote and I went to a gymnasium where they had polling places spread out just judge distances, you know think like down by the basket and then at half-court line and you contrast that to some places that had fewer polling places open and a lot of Voters namely Milwaukee Milwaukee, which is where our African American population is predominantly located in Wisconsin Milwaukee normally had 180 polling places on an election day where people go and cast their votes.

4 (10m 2s):
On Tuesday, they had five polling places. Wow in Milwaukee had the lines African-American voter turnout is already going to be low for a spring election like this. It's a non partisan race. We usually have low turnout for this race anyway, and so then you couple that with all the complications that were put on the shoulders of Milwaukee voters yesterday and you know that makes it more difficult to vote you couple that with covid-19 cases in Milwaukee. Have hit Milwaukee's African-American population the hardest our governor has called it a crisis within a crisis. That is something we're still learning about but it's a very real fear in Milwaukee's African American

3 (10m 46s):
Community. What were voters saying about this truly insane choice? They were asked to make

2 (10m 53s):
I'm over 60 and that irritates me that you know, we're putting ourselves at risk to come and exercise our Civic duties and I just think that's wrong. So Everybody who can shows up and does everything they can and but I think it was a very bad

4 (11m 10s):
decision, you know, a lot of them said that they wished that the election had been postponed but that if it was gonna happen, they felt that they needed to get out there and vote. They said they needed to kind of counteract what they saw is voter suppression, you know, they felt like just by having the election in the middle of a pandemic there were going to be lots of people who did not turn out and vote and so they felt like it was Their duty to do that there were some people who just said, I like voting. I feel connected to my community when I go out and vote and they didn't even actually want to return an absentee ballot and you know, they're wearing protective gear but they've been sitting at home some of them by themselves for weeks and they kind of look forward to getting out and voting despite the the health warnings and then you heard similar things from poll workers was not their first choice to be out there handling ballots interacting.

4 (12m 2s):
With people but you know given their view of the importance of the vote. They felt that they needed to be out there on those front

3 (12m 11s):
lines. Did you get a sense of how many people couldn't make it out? Because there were exponentially fewer polling places and because who knows how many complications this moment caused on people's weighing whether they would go out to vote or not in the first place.

4 (12m 30s):
We'll have more information about that. Monday but turnout is down for in-person voting you had a record number of people request absentee ballots by mail. And so those are still being tabulated they're being tabulated until Monday. I know that anecdotally that there were reports all over the state of people saying they wanted to do the right thing here request an absentee ballot. Stay home on Election Day, you know get that ballot in the mail mail it back and a lot of people all over The state are saying they didn't get the ballots. They requested it weeks ago and it never came so they were faced with the choice on Election Day of do I stay home and not have my vote counted or do I go out and risk my public health according to the CDC and the state of Wisconsin to go cast this vote.

4 (13m 24s):
So that's kind of a situation where the system seemed to fail and I don't know where it failed and I think that's something that will be examining. Four weeks to come is what is the deal with these people who requested absentee ballots tried to do the right thing and didn't get them and we're left with this impossible choice on Election Day.

3 (13m 55s):
I knowed you thinking what's gonna happen if we still need to social distance in November. What is this mean for the Donald and Joe show we got you after the break.

2 (14m 18s):
This episode is brought to you by US Cellular. There's never been a better time to switch to US Cellular because now when you do you'll get 50% off your choice of Select new smartphones that's amazing phones like the Samsung Galaxy S 10 e or the Google pixel for a great choice on a great phone now, that's fair US Cellular choose Fair terms apply check US Cellular.com for details.

3 (14m 46s):
Hey, so I've been getting emails from listeners and sometimes even tweet saying like how can we support the work that you are doing that today explain is doing that Vox is doing and usually I'm just like I don't know share it. But now there is a different way to support today explained and vaux Vox is launching a contribution effort right now and vox.com give you can give money you can contribute to help Vox make podcasts to The explanatory journalism that you depend on and right now in this crisis is more important than it's ever been so you can choose what that work is worth to you and give to support Vox and today explained and all the stuff that you love that we do go to vox.com /give right now and make your contribution just a heads up.

3 (15m 39s):
It's not tax deductible. But thank you so much for your support. Nate personally is a law professor at Stanford University. But he spends a lot of his time thinking about our elections and how we do them. I do he was the research director for the president's Commission on Election Administration in 2013. So I asked him what he made of what happened in Wisconsin on

4 (16m 8s):
Tuesday. Well this situation truly is unprecedented. We've had other natural disasters before like hurricanes in the like but we've never had the particular challenges that this pandemic poses for An election yesterday in Wisconsin. We saw the Kind of Perfect Storm of problems where political dysfunction met logistical difficulties to produce an election that was sort of barely above what was necessary in order to get people to the polls and to get them to cast a

3 (16m 40s):
ballot right? We heard from other Champs earlier. They didn't have enough polling stations and even more tragically they were nowhere near ready for this unprecedented demand. For absentee ballots how prepared is the rest of the country to deal with vote-by-mail in the wake of this

4 (16m 57s):
pandemic? There are several states that run their elections almost entirely by mail. Those are Oregon Washington, Colorado, Utah and Hawaii. They should have the easiest time with respect to dealing with the pandemic and then there are other Western States like Arizona and California where about two-thirds of the voters vote by mail and they have robust Male balloting procedures in place so they should be okay Battleground states have instances of vote-by-mail that are under 5% or so. And so they're going to have the toughest time. I think what we saw in Wisconsin this past election is emblematic of what we might see in many states that don't have a traditional male balloting.

4 (17m 43s):
However, let's be clear Wisconsin did do some good things and they sort of provide. Data for later States as they start to contemplate how to adapt to this new environment. One of them is that they were able to call out the National Guard to serve as poll workers over 2400 National Guard's members showed up at the polls and they were an absolutely critical part of the election day mobilization that needed to happen in order to pull off the election. It's still the case that they had much fewer polling places than they had in previous elections. Actions and so a lot of the consolidation of polling places, no doubt confused voters.

4 (18m 26s):
And as I said, you know the day before they weren't even sure whether they were going to have the election on Tuesday. And so there was so much back and forth that many voters were probably left stranded.

3 (18m 39s):
So what's it going to take to get some of these critical States Battleground States ready and and ramped up for mail-in voting?

4 (18m 47s):
Well, the first thing we need is money and we need Congress to quadruple the amount of money that was in the last bill that dealt with elections. So they appropriated 400 million dollars that would be sent through the election assistance commission to the States. But that's for the entire country. The Battleground states are going to get you know, a tiny share of that. And so we need the resources at the federal and state level especially now that states are going to be tightening their budgets because of the recession that's caused by the virus, but beyond money. Need logistical assistance to the states for them to make the transition the same kinds of economic forces that are making it difficult for us.

4 (19m 28s):
For example to adequately Supply medical officials with face masks and ventilators are going to make it difficult for polling places and election officials to get the equipment that they need in order to run this election, whether you're talking about high-speed scanners and other types of equipment for a male balloting or if you're talking about the personal protective gear And other kinds of accommodations for the polling places. So we need money. We need logistical help and frankly. We need political will we need the states to start taking this seriously immediately for November because any election official will tell you that if you don't have in place a plan five months before the November election you there's the chance that you're going to be out of luck when that election comes

3 (20m 14s):
around political will isn't looking great right? Wisconsin's fight went all the way to the Court of the United States the president this morning tweeted Republicans should fight very hard when it comes to Statewide mail-in voting Democrats are clamoring for it tremendous potential for voter fraud and for whatever reason doesn't work out well for Republicans, even though yesterday, he admitted that he votes by mail

4 (20m 40s):
I could vote by mail for the well that's called out of state but you know why I voted because I happen to be in the white house and I won't be able to go to, Florida. Devote

3 (20m 51s):
seems wildly hypocritical but is there any truth to this argument? He's making that there's more fraud if people vote by mail.

4 (20m 58s):
There's very little fraud in American elections, but when there is fraud, it is more likely to occur in the mail balloting even though it's rare and a lot of that is because male bounding actually occurs outside the watchful eye of poll workers. And so you don't actually have observation of the voters when they cast the ballot. But fraud is rare and I feel like the the politicization of vote-by-mail was something that could have been avoided at the front end. But now it's a really unfortunate consequence of the last two to three weeks, which is that now you have the parties staking out very different positions on vote by mail.

4 (21m 41s):
But you know, it's one of these things where you have to figure out a safe way for people to vote somehow. So if you're not going to shift people to vote by mail, then you have to spend several billion dollars making sure that our polling places are up and running in November because right now what jurisdictions are confronting is a shortage of adequate polling places because many people don't want to have 700 people coming through for their facilities on Election Day because of the contagion from the virus and they're losing poll workers because very few of them want to be serving and seeing crowds on Election Day and so you have to deal with that problem of Of sight and poll worker shortage in order to provide the adequate personal voting alternative.

4 (22m 27s):
Otherwise, you've got to really shift a lot of people to vote by mail and early polling place

3 (22m 31s):
voting but just to be clear here the debate the politics of all of this it's insincere. There isn't a great risk of voter fraud if we vote by mail Republicans are just worried that they'll be more democratic

4 (22m 45s):
votes. Well, look, I think that there are a lot of good Ins to be cautious about vote by mail many of them are logistical that you know, we should it's very difficult to run an adequate vote by mail option. And in fact, there are many civil rights groups that are very concerned about a complete shift to vote by mail in part because racial minorities are often more attracted to going to polling places then to trusting the males with their vote. And so there's plenty of criticism of vote-by-mail on both the left and the Right, but as I said, you know we there is sort of no other option. We're going to have to shift tens of millions of Voters to mail balloting.

4 (23m 29s):
If we are under conditions of the pandemic that are similar to what we're seeing in the primaries and and then beyond that we need to make sure that we have adequate resources for the polling places to function

3 (23m 41s):
and if we don't come to some consensus on how we can best address voting while dealing with this pandemic if if they're still real About shot social distancing and safety during the general election. Come November. What's it going to mean for the election? What's it going to mean for the results?

4 (24m 1s):
Well, if states don't act in the next few months to try to design an election under pandemic conditions, we are in real trouble and they need to prepare now, even if we're lucky enough not to have Pandemic conditions in the fall. I mean, what am I my chief worries is that we're going to see over the summer a subsiding and concerns about the pandemic because people will be Sort of liberated from the shelter in place orders, but then when the virus comes back in the fall and early winter that we're going to be back here again, so they have to start preparing now to get the logistical help that they need in order to prepare for the election.

4 (24m 42s):
And if you know, we are unable to make those preparations very soon. Then there's the risk that we have sort of bush versus Gore on steroids problem where you do have contested elections in different states and that

3 (24m 56s):
the courts

4 (25m 2s):
You know, I've been working a lot in the last few years on voting and democracy and the internet dealing with platforms like Facebook in the like here in Silicon Valley and I thought that the real concern this election was going to be similar to what we had in 2016 where people were worried about Russian hacking and the like for intervention disinformation and so while confidence and concerns were really an issue coming into the election, you know. Upon that all the concerns and doubts that the virus is posing for election Administration. And so we are in a very vulnerable position when it comes to confidence in the democracy and the basic Machinery of Elections and the virus and potential lack of preparation for it is only going to make things

3 (25m 50s):
worse.