2 (6s):
We are not wanting for reminders of how fragile and fleeting life can be in 2020. But on Friday night, we got another one. Anyway, the actor Chadwick Boseman died of colon cancer at 43 and he chose to suffer in silence even his closest friends and collaborators only discovered. He had cancer when they heard about his passing. Chadwick had been battling cancer for the past four years while playing superheroes and movies Jackie Robinson Thurgood Marshall and black panther as the world mourn Chadwick Boseman this weekend an old interview resurfaced. It was from a black panther press junket Chadwick is talking about two kids with cancer who couldn't wait to see the movie throughout our filming I was communicating with them.

2 (58s):
Knowing that they were both terminal and and what they said to me is in their parents said they just they're trying to hold on to this movie comes Osmond says he couldn't believe black panther would mean that much to two kids with terminal cancer I think back now to a kid and just, you know, waiting for Christmas to come waiting for my birthday to come waiting. For a toy that was going to the I was going to get a chance to experience our video game. I did live life waiting for those moments. And so we put me back in the mind of being a kid just just to experience those two little boys anticipation of this movie and when I found out that they

1 (1m 59s):
Take your time with it.

2 (2m 15s):
Yeah, this is it means a lie. The kids didn't make it and now we know that Bozeman himself was battling cancer when he gave this interview. He'll always be remembered for playing a superhero for playing Black Panther but in death Chadwick Boseman has become a superhero. The celebrate his work. We're going to run the second ever episode of today explained it ran on February 20th, 2018 a few days after black panther opened in theaters across the country. We knew how important this movie was then and it's only become more important since thank you Chadwick.

2 (3m 5s):
I'm Sean Rama's Burnham. This is today. Explain. When I was seven eight, nine years old my Prime comic book years this store in my neighborhood. That's old Comics did not have the best selection. Yes, Batman Superman or Spider-Man Archie seeing someone who looked like me didn't really feel like an option and that didn't even feel weird. Most people. I knew hadn't heard of Sri Lanka. Ah the country where my parents are from most people and you can't even say my last name.

2 (3m 46s):
So it felt pretty normal to dream of being a white guy. My brother wanted to be Batman. So I was left wanting to be Spider-Man anyway fast forward a couple decades. It feels like there's a new superhero movie every other week. I'm not holding my breath for a big South Asian superhero movie,

1 (4m 3s):
but it sure is nice to finally see black panther, but our princess has been the protective will come down for Generations. mantle passed from Warrior to Warrior now because your friend murdered my father I also wear the mantle of King black panther already feels like the most important movie of the year and understand why you have to understand who black panther is. Your highness under the Black Panther mask is t'challa king of a fictional African

2 (4m 40s):
nation called wakanda.

1 (4m 43s):
What do you know about what kinda wakanda is the most advanced country in the world thanks to this crazy fictional super Metal called vibranium is stronger than steel and a third the way It's completely vibration absorbance

2 (5m 1s):
it Powers their trains and Powers their weapons and it's the special sauce and black panthers superhero suit despite. All of its sophistication will kind that keeps a low profile. Most people don't even know it exists as a result. No slave trade. No colonialism. Just this dream of black

1 (5m 18s):
excellence. Black Panther shows up for just a few scenes in Captain America Civil War. But you know what an exciting new superhero shows up for a few scenes in a Marvel movie big things are ahead. Just one year later. We had a trailer for a standalone Black Panther movie. I waited my entire life for this the world's got to start over. I'm a burn it off. We sitting here looking at this dope ass black panther poster for some fans seeing

2 (5m 50s):
the poster alone. Just the poster was almost too much to take

1 (5m 55s):
this is what why people get to feel all the time at the beginning of Cinema you get to feel empowered like this and represent it. This will shout for like all the time. I would love his country to the for black panther even came out. It felt like a game changer, but if they were Doubts this weekend drove the point home representation matters and it's good for business people were dressing up to go see this movie actually wearing a dashiki and she's wearing a matching skirt that I had made down in 125th Street and Hollow people were renting out entire theaters for private screenings, but the whole room full of gorgeous black people right now couple of white people and a couple of white people people were celebrating their major life events at Black Panther.

1 (6m 45s):
I'm turns to this is Tiffany is our engagement party. I went to the Alpine Cinemas in Brooklyn the night black panther opened Terrence and Tiffany seemed more excited about the movie than their own marriage. Is there a chance it doesn't meet your expectations? No chance none whatsoever. I believe in it. I've always been a big fan of Chadwick Boseman. I've actually got a crush on him since he was only going Heights. I'm here. That's cool. That's cool. She knows about me and Briana Briana doesn't Not know about me Rihanna, but she knows about mirjana's, you know, our family is here. Our friends are here our co-workers that support us and our black love.

1 (7m 28s):
So that's what it is. Yeah what she said pretty much on point. I don't

2 (7m 41s):
think I've ever been in a more rapturous movie theater than Terrence and Tiffany's black panther screening people were yelling people were crying people were laughing and it wasn't the kids in the theater freezing out. It was

1 (7m 51s):
their parents the ones who grew up wishing. They could see themselves saving the world. Black panther made a ton of money over

2 (8m 3s):
the weekend over 200 million

1 (8m 5s):
dollars, it

2 (8m 6s):
broke all sorts of records including the biggest long

1 (8m 9s):
weekend haul ever Kendrick Lamar

2 (8m 11s):
soundtrack is the number one album in the country Michelle Obama endorsed the movie on Twitter congrats to the

1 (8m 17s):
entire Black Panther team because of you young people will finally see superheroes that look like them on the big screen. I loved this movie and I know it will inspire people. Of all backgrounds to dig deep and to find the courage to be the heroes of their own stories. So what took so

2 (8m 36s):
long. Why were there

1 (8m 37s):
three Iron Man's six Spider-Man's and

2 (8m 40s):
an Ant-Man movie before this. I asked the guy who's writing the Black Panther Comics

1 (8m 44s):
right now after the break, this is today explained.

2 (9m 13s):
Today's episode is brought to you by the fair gun. It is a handheld percussive therapy device that releases your deepest muscle tension using a calibrated combination of depth speed and power and now it's as quiet as get this guy's that electric toothbrush. I can't get away. That's because of the all-new Jenn fourth era gun. It's got a Terry brushless motor that's so quiet. You will wonder if it's even on you'll be like a paragon are you on but then you like put it on your back and you like? Oh, yeah you're on and and it does all its business while you soothe your aching muscles with you know, their guns signature power amplitude and Effectiveness tried their guns risk free 30-day trial.

2 (10m 4s):
There's no substitute for that their gun Gen4 with an OLED screen personalized. They're gonna nap in the quiet power. You need starting at only 199 dollars Bob. You can go to therapy on.com slash explained right now to get your gen for their gun today. That is tarragon.com / explained for the Jen fourth, Erica. Before we get back to the show. I'd like to tell you about a podcast if I may it's called this day in esoteric political history say that five times fast in times like these we could all use a little historical perspective this day in esoteric political history from PRX is Radio Topia takes one moment that happened this day in our political history some well-known some more obscure and discuss Is what lessons said moment has for this particular moment elections convention scandals crises and more the shows hosted by Jody average and formerly of 538 and historian Nicole Hammer of Columbia University.

2 (11m 15s):
You can find this day in esoteric political history new episodes three days a week wherever you get your podcasts or at this day pod.com So yeah, we know that black panther is more than just another comic book movie. But what took so long to make it. If you were a superhero, what would you call yourself what your power be? Oh, man. The Haitian Sensation probably super speed Evan narcissus is a Black Panther fan going way way back probably 9 or 10 years old now, he's a grown-up and writes about comic books for io9 and I'm also writing rise of the Black Panther for Marvel Comics.

2 (12m 14s):
So he seemed like the right person to ask what makes this particular story and character and movie so gosh darn important, you know Sean. I'm like, I'm almost genetically Neared for this moment right this movie like hit me so hard. I wet the first time I saw it and I went probably exponentially more the last time I saw it. It's very personal. It's very metaphorical. It feels like a Big Slice of myth and Shakespeare and Blackness all layered on top of each other. I had high expectations that I tried to temper and it exceeded those expectations. There's one in character called Baku who in the comics is a super villain called man eight and he's played by Winston Duke.

2 (13m 1s):
I was lucky enough to go to the premiere in LA and I talked to him after the movie. I was like, you know growing

1 (13m 7s):
up we used to make fun of this cat like he will the clown face demand. And I said nobody's going to do that now no one's in lambdas character

2 (13m 23s):
now and that's by virtue of his performance and the way that Ryan coogler and Joe Robert Cole the other guy who wrote the screenplay conceptualizes character. They knew that yes, there's a history of stereotypes calling the black eye and 8. So let's not do that and furthermore. Let's make this guy ideologically sound in terms of his argument in the plot. They radically reinterpret these characters. In some ways that are better than the comics which are you know, pains me to say is the guy who's writing black panther Comics now, there's a few things that need you in there like damn it. I wish I could have done that. Tell me what made you cry even. Oh, man. I mean like literally the first line what what what this line a little boy saying Baba tell me your story.

1 (14m 16s):
Then it just starts talking about what common law history of wakanda and you

2 (14m 18s):
know, the thing that the movie does is if you come from somewhere else that is not America, if you come from another culture that is not white and if you feel a longing for that place and your sense of self in that place or your sense of self having to simultaneously exist in two places at once if you feel any of those things, this movie's gonna hit you like a ton of bricks.

1 (14m 43s):
King of my city king of my country king of my homeland King of the filthy King of the Fallen we living again King of the Jews Lunas boosters and ghettos popping. He got the past present future. My ancestors watching him that okocha King got a soldier King got the Bloodshed. He got the wisdom king of the ocean King gotta respect King of the optimistic and dreams they go and get it King of the winners District in Geniuses. We commissioned the king and you talked about the movie being sort of steeped in metaphor and

2 (15m 9s):
myth. What is what kinda what does it mean? In the real world, what conda is basically the dream of black culture of a black people that's never been compromised by white supremacy by colonialism by racism discrimination. And that's a powerful idea that has some historical reference but not on the scale that we see in the movie. It's a space of completely free black agency where you don't have to worry about what looks respectable or palatable. Or certain standards of beauty. Why didn't anyone in this hyper capitalist Society think of this 30 years ago.

2 (15m 51s):
I'm confused because there's a bunch of bullshit attitudes and preconceived notions and quote-unquote conventional wisdom about what plays across the world in terms of Hollywood output and that's you know white people but nothing about the Black Panther is designed to be a repudiation. Of other groups humanity is primarily a celebration of black humanity and you know, one of the things about Black Panther dad's exhilarating and frustrating at the same time is this is a perfect storm. Okay. We got Ryan coogler who's coming off Creed.

2 (16m 31s):
You've got the cast chatter Bozeman who's ridiculous talented performer Lupita Nyong'o Daniel Kahlua, but then you've got older generations of actors like Forest Whitaker and Angela. Acid like this movie took like a very specific planetary alignment to make happen. And what I want is for the next movie that has similar goals or ideas to not need a perfect storm to happen. You know, like this shouldn't be this feat of institutional bravery to put out a movie without has mostly black people in it. Right black audiences will show up, you know, and I'm like audiences to you know, and what do you think this?

2 (17m 13s):
Movie means the kids. I mean when I was young I saw some lesser black superhero movies. I saw Blankman.

1 (17m 23s):
Meteor Man in town some bleed worst things out tonight the vampires like what like me I saw spawn you sent me to Hell Jason. I'm here to return the favor. It was a real rough run for a

2 (17m 42s):
minute there. Right? All the weight is okay. I'm wondering like what do you think? It'll mean to see this all-star cast and then this All-Star soundtrack and like a We got to go buy toys that are centered around a black hero for kids. You get to save the world. You get the change the world, you know, the thing about superheroes is at their by their very nature. They are aspirational right so often these meditations about what human beings can and can't do happen through white faces and to have it happen through Black Faces is like Ridiculously meaningful, like it's so important to have a villain who like semi sympathetic charismatic and compelling and a black guy and have him hit off against a hero that is compassionate clever and in a loving relationship with his sister and Mom and have these huge stakes be part of it to let you know you can change other people's lives for the better like that's important.

2 (18m 50s):
Drink the experience from kids of any group any background but black kids so rarely get that directly beamed right at their heads and their

1 (18m 60s):
hearts and that's what's really important about this movie. Evan narcis writes the comic book

2 (19m 25s):
series rise of the Black Panther from Marvel shouts to Keisha TK do test for inviting me to her friend's engagement party in Brooklyn and two boxes Christina on Amazon for Lending her voice to today's episode. I'm Sean Rama's firm. This is today.

1 (19m 40s):
Explain. Crazy because I didn't invite you or you are poor you the moral to the story you and trusting what the fuck I don't even like you grunting Bain top with a gift. That's how you find out when you're dealing with.

2 (20m 3s):
Hi, I'm Avery troubleman and I'm the new host of the cut podcast from New York Magazine and the VOX media podcast Network every Wednesday the cut editorial team and I will explore surprising provocative ideas about style self culture and Power in our first episode. We're looking at what it means to be optimistic in 2020.

1 (20m 27s):
You can listen And subscribe to the

2 (20m 29s):
cut now on Apple podcast or wherever you listen.