1 (31s):
So much for starting off the new year with a renewed sense of optimism about the world, huh? It looks like just as the Clock Struck midnight. President Trump ordered a drone strike in Iraq that killed Iranian General qasem soleimani in the days that followed we got threats of Revenge from Iran more threats from President Trump. Iran said it would enrich uranium without restrictions Trump said, he would bomb cultural sites in Iran Iraq voted to expel US troops Trump sending more troops to the region hundreds of thousands of Iranians are taking to the streets to mourn soleimani and the year isn't even a week old today.

1 (1m 18s):
We are going to try to figure Out how we got here and where we might go next. We're going to start with who this

3 (1m 24s):
guy was. Well, depending on who you ask. He's the Devil Himself or a highly revered influential person that has brought great honor

1 (1m 34s):
to a run. Alex ward has been covering the story for

3 (1m 38s):
Vox. He was the leader of the Iranian revolutionary guards Corps Koontz Force. So the elite of the elite Military Intelligence arm of Iran's military.

2 (1m 51s):
He wasn't well known in the United States, but he was one of the most powerful figures in the Middle East sometimes even touted as a possible future leader of Iran.

3 (2m 2s):
I mean if you like combine the CIA pentagon, Special Operations, like all these things Joint Chiefs like all of these kinds of elements of our system and you combine it into one organization. Then that would be the codes Force which would make soleimani like all of those heads of those agencies wrapped into one person and and arguably the second most important person in Iran until

1 (2m 25s):
his death and this is the organization that the Trump Administration to much fanfare declared a terrorist organization last year.

3 (2m 32s):
Yeah. Yeah the first time the US had ever declared an Element of a foreign government to be a terrorist organization. Our designation makes clear to

2 (2m 40s):
the world that Iranian regime not only supports terrorist group but engages in terrorism itself. This designation also brings unprecedented pressure and figures who lead the regimes terror campaign individuals like qasem soleimani.

1 (2m 53s):
So how did soleimani get to be the head of this super Critical Defense intelligence arm in Iran

3 (3m 0s):
when the Iranian Revolution started in 1979. He decided to join the Revolutionary guard Corps, which is irgc for short and then the year after the revolution. So 1980. We have the iran-iraq War start and he gets a bit of a name for himself from going behind a rocky Enemy Lines doing some reconnaissance and occasionally coming back with goats that he would be able to feed himself and other members of his team stole goats from a rock and brought back goats the Ada and they were like, well, this is a Fearless guy, you know, he's, you know, making a name for himself in this war and so he really just gets thrown into battle right away. Way and he starts to form a worldview at this point one of which is that the u.s. You know, the West is not so great.

3 (3m 42s):
You have a rock which is at the time a sunni-led country causing problems for a run. And so he starts to kind of think. Okay. Maybe I need to start counting these kinds of forces and in 1998 becomes the leader of this organization, which meant that for decades he was the head of the elite of the elite of her on exporting Iranian Revolution throughout the Middle East and trying to lead a Iran's foreign policy.

1 (4m 6s):
Which is to say he had a direct impact over the course of the past two decades on the u.s. Iran relationship arguably the most. Yeah, and how did that relationship evolved under his leadership not

3 (4m 17s):
great. So on one end you have soleimani having some common enemies with the United States including the Taliban and Isis, he would help the US and get some information on Intelligence on these organizations. He would lead proxies or his own troops. To fight these organizations, but then on most things he went against us for example, propping up Assad in Syria in gaining more influence in Baghdad. And on top of that it should be said the soleimani is responsible for the deaths of hundreds of Americans partially with explosive devices targeting Americans with rockets shooting them in, you know, during Wars American troops American troops and American contractors and Etc.

3 (5m 1s):
And someone is going after American Allies including Saudi Arabia, you know attacking oil. Fields even trying to kill the Saudi ambassador to the US here in Washington DC in a criminal complaint that was compared to a Hollywood script official said an iranian-american from Corpus Christi, Texas 56 year old man, sir. Our Bob CR was recorded offering 1.5 million dollars from Iran for the ambassador's murder for many people. He's a complicated character in that sense. Like in one sense. He was helping us in some areas of mutual interests, but on the whole he was working against us and especially after George. You Bush gave his acts of evil speech in which he named Aaron and member of the axis of Evil which point to the line. He was like, we're not going to be working so closely with the u.s.

2 (5m 43s):
Anymore today after two years of negotiations the United States together where International Partners has achieved something that Decades of animosity has not a comprehensive long-term deal with Iran that will prevent it from obtaining a nuclear

1 (6m 0s):
weapon does the tension that's building between the u.s. And Iran and soleimani he's at all when The signs Iran nuclear deal.

3 (6m 7s):
Yes, and no during negotiations for the Iran nuclear deal tensions calm down. And then after the deal was signed, there were no rocket attacks or any kinds of attacks on Americans after that. Now soleimani was not a fan of the Iran deal. He believed that that was a bit of a piece meant by members of the Iranian government. He specially was critical of current foreign minister Javad zarif and felt that Iran was giving up power that it deserved to have in the region. So he aimed to thwart that deal. Of course, he ultimately

1 (6m 36s):
lost right before we get into the action President Trump took last week. I Wonder soleimani has been around for decades did Clinton or junior or Obama ever consider going as far as President Trump suggested it was

3 (6m 56s):
discussed. The main reason that bush and Obama decided not to do it was because they were worried about the implications. What would happen afterward Iranian? Hallie Asians, perhaps losing a rocks favor seen that maybe the cost of killing him would outweigh the benefits that said we did have them in our sights quite literally former General Stanley McChrystal who ran joint Special Operations. Command has written about watching soleimani crossed the border into Iraq to meet curds and thinking maybe we should take out this Convoy and ultimately decided not to because the worry water that would mean for our relation with the Kurds. And so we let him go but this has always been been kind of in our back pocket.

3 (7m 37s):
Should we kill the guy who was responsible for supporting American names and the region killing Americans, etc. Etc. Should we go after him and two administrations past and clearly this one did

1 (7m 48s):
not tell me about what led up to Thursday's assassination of qasem soleimani.

3 (7m 56s):
So on December 27th and iranian-backed militias known as khatib Hezbollah, they send Rockets into a base north of the city of kirkuk in Iraq. And what happens is one of Can contractor dies and others are wounded now, this is a big deal because the Trump Administration for quite some time had been saying threatening Americans and especially killing one crosses his administration's red line and will lead to a pretty strong response and the u.s. Actually did respond two days later on December 29th, the US attacks five military sites belonging to this group killing 25 wounding 50 roughly 50 people and saying like you killed an American we've escalated stop. Here don't do it

1 (8m 36s):
again and Trump's making these orders from

3 (8m 38s):
Malaga right then on December 31st New Year's Eve. You

1 (8m 44s):
have

3 (8m 45s):
people led by this militia protesting quote-unquote at the embassy trying to scale the walls going inside the embassy compound setting fire to some of the reception rooms. And

1 (8m 57s):
this is a direct response to the attacks of President Trump order. Yes,

3 (9m 0s):
and it looked like they were going to stay for quite some time right in there were worries that this was going to be like the

2 (9m 5s):
Percy

3 (9m 6s):
situation I can 79 and Tehran or maybe a new Benghazi kind of situation but there are differences in the case that the u.s. Compound in Baghdad is a heavily

1 (9m 15s):
heavily fortified right? I remember this thing being built. Yeah.

3 (9m 18s):
Matt is just massive. So the chance that could be Benghazi was minimal and the chance I could it be like Tehran was unlikely, but look at those scenes

2 (9m 27s):
for a second day violent demonstrations at the US Embassy in Iraq US forces firing tear gas as protesters set tires. On fire and tried to scale the compounds walls while a rocky Security Forces stand

1 (9m 40s):
guard and presumably President Trump didn't like the look of it. No,

3 (9m 43s):
he's watching this on TV and he's still angry about the dead American contractor and they attacked near kirkuk. So he seeing this and it should be noted that we cited for Italian on December 29th. He was given a set of options by the Pentagon. Now one extreme option was killing soleimani that was on the list that was on the list other options were attacking Iran. Ships missile sites and also attacking khatib Hezbollah and there are so he chose that I guess quote-unquote middle option. So he

1 (10m 14s):
chose a more moderate option chose a moderate. Yeah more

3 (10m 17s):
moderate option though to be clear

1 (10m 19s):
this more moderate option involved killing a few dozen

3 (10m 22s):
people, correct? Okay, when he does that and he says no more and he sees the embassy see each and he's worried about his own man gods in his own legacy. And of course, I'm running an escalation then Trump go. Goes I want the extreme option. I want soleimani so preparation start you have Secretary of Defense Mark expert even say things along the lines like the u.s. Quote-unquote will not accept continued attacks against our Personnel in forces in the region and soon

1 (10m 49s):
after

3 (10m 51s):
the this Convoy is leaving the airport and it's going down the street and then there's this curve that brings you kind of back towards the city and as they finish that curve and are sort of halfway up that that next side that's when they got hit the drums. It's a two-car Convoy killing about 5 people and in it is sulemani himself and actually also the leader of khatib Hezbollah the iran-backed militia that killed the American

1 (11m 16s):
contract. Hey everyone, so I know you know all about Vox podcast because I talk about him all the time you listen to one right now. I know you know about boxes Netflix show explain but Vox is also just getting into the regular like narrative TV game right now. You can find a show called Little America on Apple TV plus

3 (11m 40s):
only in America Dia odd tax after you see the ticket

2 (11m 45s):
Place only in America can such a perfect game exist Face Forward hamburgers These Burgers bacon chili cheeseburger everything on top of everything only in America.

1 (12m 2s):
Little America comes from the people who brought you the big sick and master of none. It tells 8 extraordinary true stories of immigrants coming to

3 (12m 13s):
America people from Syria. Uganda Mexico

1 (12m 16s):
Nigeria. These stories are funny romantic their heartfelt and inspiring and who couldn't use a little bit of that right now Little America is live. Now, you can find it on the Apple TV app or go straight to tv.com All.com the show is called Little America

3 (12m 35s):
8 episodes check him out now.

1 (12m 42s):
Hey, it is Ezra Klein. And I want to tell you about an exciting Episode VII has reclined show you can listen to now and episode literally years in the making it is a special excerpt of my new book. Why were polarized which is coming out on Tuesday, January 28th, the book explores the structural and psychological Dimensions behind the way American politics has changed and polarized what it has done to our institutions, but importantly what it is doing to us. So I hope you enjoy it and you can listen to it by subscribing to the Ezra Klein show right now for free in your favorite podcast app it to hear a special excerpt from the book. Alex when was the last time the United States killed a military official of a another Sovereign Nation at this high level World War II

3 (13m 29s):
World War II when the u.s. Shot down the plane carrying Japanese Admiral Isoroku

1 (13m 33s):
Yamamoto. I can just imagine if Iran managed to kill the Director of National Intelligence tomorrow the acting Director of National Intelligence Joseph McGuire. That would be a declaration of war did the United States just declare war on Iran.

3 (13m 49s):
I think you could make the case that the u.s. And Iran have been in this state of proxy war for quite some time now decades, even we've now entered a new phase and this is arguably the most dangerous phase yet.

1 (14m 1s):
One of the arguments that trouble Administration is making for this attack.

3 (14m 5s):
They're kind of to here number one is that there was an imminent threat imminent

1 (14m 12s):
imminent. He was actively Plotting in the region to take actions a big action as he described it that would have put dozens if not hundreds of American lives at risk a specific Target overseas. I'm not gonna say anything more about the nature of the tech. But know that this was not just in Iraq, it was throughout the region

3 (14m 30s):
and the problem is the administration here has not given a timeline as to what imminent means now. I've talked to officials at the Pentagon State Department White House and I'll tell you what one percent the way has told me when I asked did the intelligence show there was an imminent threat This person responded a hundred percent but then when I asked did killing soleimani remove that imminent threat this official said

1 (14m 51s):
nope, are they providing any evidence towards this imminent

3 (14m 55s):
threat not publicly saying that, you know, we didn't this is intelligence is a sensitive and that's fair and true. But you are seeing a lot of people in Congress, especially Democrats mostly Democrats actually asking for this information to be Declassified or to at least learn more about it

2 (15m 10s):
speaker Pelosi condemned the president's actions saying quote America. The world cannot afford to have tensions escalate to the point of no return the chairman of the house Foreign Affairs Committee in Delhi. Then goal said the attack raises serious legal problems and that he expects now that the president will follow the War Powers Act and give Congress notification of what was going on and what's next within 48 hours.

3 (15m 31s):
And when the administration went to Congress to brief them on this imminent threat Democrats left going like that doesn't seem imminent snot this seems thin and in fact the New York Times reported that the intelligence was razor-thin. And so if you want to trust the Trump Administration, then go ahead and believe that this start was imminent but so far, there's no public evidence to support that

1 (15m 51s):
claim. So though this looks like an escalation towards War. The Trump Administration is making the argument that this was done to prevent attacks on United States troops and contractors potentially more and also to prevent War deter further aggression from qasem soleimani in the Iranian regime. Mmmmm, as well as to attempt to deescalate the

3 (16m 16s):
situation. Yeah, it's like escalate to deescalate now. I want to be clear about something just to take a step back. We should not forget that history did not start on December 27th, right? Remember when the u.s. Pulled out of the Iran nuclear deal. Sure, May 2018 around was looking for ways to get out of the sanctions that the US side impose. It was trying to make deals with the Europeans. It was trying to compel the u.s. To kind of get rid of this plan and after a time part of that effort was bombing. Tankers in the Strait of Hormuz it was Downing an American military drone. It was attacking oil fields in Saudi Arabia. And so it's not like a Ronstadt idly by and then this thing happened December 27th for quite some time.

3 (16m 56s):
They have been taking more and more and more provocative escalatory aggressive moves to compel the u.s. To remove those sanctions were imposed after leaving the Iran nuclear deal and in somewhat fairness of the administration, they did not respond militarily down any of us. I mean, they sent some more trips to the region. They Place more sanctions on. On but we kind of held our fire now. We are not holding our fire.

1 (17m 21s):
So the assassination happens Thursday night, January 2nd. What's a Ron's initial response

3 (17m 27s):
Iran's initial response when we hear this from the supreme leader Ali Khamenei

2 (17m 31s):
himself is that Iran will exact harsh revenge against the United States hungry cookie. She

3 (17m 44s):
like money's Market them will make

1 (17m 47s):
Iran more decisive to resist

3 (17m 49s):
America's expansionism and to defend our Islamic values with no doubt Iran and

1 (17m 55s):
other Freedom seeking countries in the region will take his revenge.

3 (17m 59s):
And so you have Trump saying like if you do we will come back and Target 52 Iranian sites representing the 52 American hostages taken during the Iran hostage crisis and that some of these sites will be our report to Iran and the Iranian culture. So you're imagining like World heritage UNESCO type sites, which would be a war crime, by the way, there's no reason to Target those sites saying that you know, Ron will be hit very fast and very hard. So this is Trump escalating it again telling her on you come after us. We're going to come back to you even harder than we just did

1 (18m 28s):
and then the u.s. Sends more troops to the Middle East

3 (18m 32s):
then we're sending 3,500 more troops to the Middle East likely going to end up in Kuwait. These are members of the 82nd Airborne and it is adding to the US presence in the Middle East that despite His insistence that we're getting out keeps adding more and more troops of the region

1 (18m 47s):
and do we know what mission those troops are seeking out not as of now, but

3 (18m 53s):
the general theory is that this is signaling right that this is 3500 troops is not enough to make a Ron think that a war is coming but it's enough to make them think like okay, they're serious and they're positioning themselves to be ready in case things get bad.

2 (19m 5s):
And as this is all happening hundreds of thousands of Iranians are taking to the streets to mourn soleimani. And this is an important point because Secretary of State Mike Pompeo even tweeted out like look at these Rockies dancing in the street for

3 (19m 21s):
Freedom. Thankful that General soleimani is

2 (19m 23s):
no more

3 (19m 24s):
and there's no question that Iraqis and Iranians and a bunch of people around the world are happiness Philemon, he's gone, but as you mentioned the thousands and thousands and thousands of protesting the u.s. Morning soleimani and and seeing this elsewhere in the world as well that people are upset that the u.s. Took this action and soleimani was killed it shows that there is at least a backlash to the u.s.

1 (19m 45s):
Decision and Iraq sort of makes this backlash official

3 (19m 50s):
in a way. So you have the parliament convene on Sunday and vote in a non-binding resolution that US forces should no longer stay in the country. And this was backed by the caretaker prime minister saying that the u.s. Troops should no longer stay now. This is a complication because one of course the u.s. Likes have a foothold in Iraq and it helps fight Iranian influence, but mainly the US troops are there in Iraq to fight Isis. To train the Iraqi troops to fight Isis. And so if US troops go and they are by far more capable than Iraqi troops. Then the space opens up for Isis to come back for Ron to have more influence in Iraq and a strategic failure starts to arise and that may be in the longer term us interest will be harmed by that

1 (20m 35s):
decision. What happens after Iraq passes this non-binding resolution to expel US troops from the

3 (20m 45s):
country and then on Sunday are on said it will unshackle itself from one of the biggest restrictions of the Iran nuclear deal, which is the limit on uranium enrichment. So it's not like a Ron said we are out of the nuclear deal. But what this would do is put her on even closer there so far but closer to a nuclear weapon. And remember that's like the entire reason we signed the nuclear deal in the first place to keep a run away from a nuclear bomb, which like a man. And in this scenario with a nuclear Iran, it would be way way way way way worse. So in a way, it's like President Trump kind of should thank Obama for taking that scenario off the

1 (21m 21s):
table and Beyond what this might mean for the fight against Isis. We now have this potential fight with Iran today soleimani successor. Ash male ghani said God the almighty has promised to get his revenge and God is the main Avenger what might this fight with Iran if it continues Has to escalate look like

3 (21m 43s):
it would be one of the worst wars in recent memory. Remember that are on in terms of population and size is much larger than a rock is so all the challenges that we have with the rock like multiply it by 3 to 5, then we can bomb a lot and we can do a lot of damage but Iran cannot deal with us conventionally because we are much stronger military. So they will do is basically try to come at us and degrade our Are to keep fighting and bombing and doing whatever asymmetric Warfare asymmetric Warfare gonna come after us diplomats in the Middle East and elsewhere in the world. Maybe even West West Africa where we have very little Embassy protection.

3 (22m 24s):
They are going to continue to attack and seize ships that are passing through the Persian Gulf or the Strait of Hormuz, which would absolutely decimate the world oil Market unleash their Shiite militias to possibly attack Israel Saudi Arabia Jordan a lot of countries. He's that you know, we have relationships with even if we send in a bunch of troops in and start trying to like start a conventional War. We're looking at thousands and thousands and thousands dead. We're looking at thousands and likely in the millions of refugees dwarfing what will happen in Syria, and then moving further Westward or elsewhere destabilizing other countries, and then let's even imagine that we somehow as would be near impossible, but we somehow got into Tehran decapitated the

2 (23m 9s):
regime

3 (23m 10s):
And tried to install a new government. Well, there'd be tons of power vacuums perhaps giving terrorists some space Shiite militia some space you could have clerics fighting literally to keep control. So you have a civil war inside of Iran causing me more Refugee crisis more economic collapse and so like and what I'm laying out is a maximalist scenario, but no one should believe that a war with Iran would be quick

2 (23m 32s):
or easy and wouldn't last for years and

3 (23m 34s):
years and years causing immeasurable

2 (23m 36s):
humans up.

1 (23m 49s):
Alex Ward is one of the hosts of worldly. That's a podcast from Fox. I'm Shawn Rama's firm. This is today explained.