0 (1s):
This podcast is brought to you by Twilio, for businesses around the world, unlocking and unifying real-time customer data is critical, especially for delivering truly personalized campaigns at scale. That's why companies like Instacart into it. And IBM are turning to Twilio, which was recently ranked number one for 2020 market share and customer data platforms by IDC to learn how Twilio can help your business harness real-time data and build customer engagement, like no other visit twilio.com,

1 (30s):
Cover story, a new investigative podcast by New York magazine. That's got a lot of people on edge. What is the number?

2 (36s):
The one rule we would all go. Don't your client.

1 (41s):
It's a gnarly personal look at the underground psychedelic therapy world and its boundary problems.

2 (47s):
All my clients try to have sex with me during these sessions. And I was like, I don't think I'm going to try to have sex with you. And he's like, yeah, yeah.

1 (57s):
We'll cover story. Season one, power trip, check it out on apple podcasts or wherever you listen.

4 (1m 12s):
It's to explained I'm Sean. Rama's from way back in April of this year, we graded president Biden's first hundred days. Literally he got some A's. He got some BS. We spoke to Evan Osnos from the new Yorker about how that one nickname from that one guy sleepy Joe, might've been sort of on point. Even if Biden had been very busy, pushing some pretty progressive policies for a guy who was like a moderate stalwart in the United States Senate for decades. Now Biden's had the big job for almost a year. So we thought we'd bring back Evan to evaluate the work. No A's B's or even C's D's or F's, but a conversation about the successes and the failures, because he's undeniably had both. We started as president Biden did on inauguration date with unity,

5 (1m 56s):
We can join forces, stop the shouting and lower the temperature for without unity. There is no peace

4 (2m 5s):
Lofty stuff. How do you plan on reuniting this country? Evan,

6 (2m 9s):
His theory was that you can use practical functional improvements in people's lives to change the political temperature in America, meaning that his ideas, that part of the reason why we're so divided is that a big portion of the American population has decided that the government doesn't work. It doesn't work for them. It can't work it's structurally or culturally broken. So what he said was rather than me try to persuade people that I'm somebody they should just inherently like or support or that my party is a place where they will find a natural home. He said, I'm just simply going to try to show that I can use the government to do things like put checks in people's hands or put shots in people's arms in the case, the vaccine, or create jobs at a moment when the economy was really vulnerable.

6 (3m 4s):
And that was really the core bet. Was that by going for practical improvements and fixes that he might be able to address what is fundamentally an ideological and tribal division.

4 (3m 18s):
Well, let's talk about how he did in his first year on that front, starting with the pandemic, how was our second pandemic president and how did he compare to our first,

6 (3m 31s):
The vitamin illustration came in with a very clear sense that its absolute overwhelming priority had to be deal with the pandemic

5 (3m 39s):
Fair, no effort to turn this pandemic around once we're sworn in and

6 (3m 43s):
January 20th. And that was partly through mask wearing partly through public messaging. And of course mostly through the vaccine. And it's telling that after a couple of months in office in March when Biden had a big press conference, no questions at all about the virus and the vaccine, the focus was on the border. It was on the filibuster reporters had really sort of come to assume that the COVID crisis was passing. And I think that feeling was also trickling up into the government and that was premature.

4 (4m 17s):
I mean, for all his ambition to take the temperature down and to unite the country, it feels like even on COVID he failed to do that. He fell short of his vaccination goal. You've got these insane school board fights over masks and shots. His vaccine mandate is tied up in the courts. Members of his own party are joining the opposition in opposing his mandate policies. Did he fail

6 (4m 47s):
Well so far we've been talking about him and it's a little bit like talking about a tennis match without mentioning his opponent. Obviously a lot of the things that you just described, which are all exactly right, are a product of a sustained intensive in many cases, deliberate campaign on the part of conservatives and in some sense by the Republican party to undermine public enthusiasm for the vaccine. So maybe it doesn't,

7 (5m 22s):
And they're simply not telling you that the Biden administration is about to take their pressure campaign to your doorstep.

6 (5m 32s):
The reality is that when people were going in to the pandemic planners, whose jobs was to think about how would the United States respond to a deadly pathogen, they thought about all kinds of things, logistics, how do you get masks and tests and vaccines into the right places? But one of the things they really did not anticipate was that large portions of the United States would take and personal almost ideological opposition to the idea of taking a vaccine that had been created, tested and approved by the government. This is about politics and it's about social control. One of the key turning points in the vaccine narrative, the trajectory of it was that very early on the vitamin illustration was setting pretty reasonable expectations, almost kind of expectations that were easy for them to meet.

6 (6m 25s):
So that then when they met those thresholds, the public would feel that there was progress happening. And that began to fail over the summer because there was an effort to try to say, look, you're going to have a normal summer. We're going to get enough vaccine out there and that didn't happen. And I think there are a lot of reasons why it has to do partly with the failure to get home testing into people's hands as quickly as they should have. There were bureaucratic obstacles to that, but at the same time, and perhaps more importantly, there was this growing and sustained opposition among his political opponents to try to prevent the vaccine from becoming in effect the cultural law of the land. And that has turned out to be the single greatest impediment to getting the virus under control.

4 (7m 9s):
Well, let's talk about an arena in which the president had more objective success and that would be the infrastructure infrastructure part of his infrastructure plan,

5 (7m 23s):
Most significant investment erosion bridges in the past 70 years, it makes the most significant investment in passenger rail in the past 50 years and in public transit ever.

4 (7m 34s):
How was the president able to win bipartisan support against all odds?

6 (7m 41s):
Like some things in politics. It's very hard to argue with a bill that is overwhelmingly popular. And that's what was the case here that despite the attempts by some, including former president Trump, to present the infrastructure bill as some kind of no go zone for Republicans. In fact, the data was pretty clear that voters are really quite eager to have things like investment in better roads, bridges, infrastructure, and all the rest to the point that even Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader in the Senate was willing to go along with a bill that he knows would ultimately deliver a political win for Joe Biden by

8 (8m 26s):
I believe our colleagues draft tax provides a good and important jumping off point for what needs to be robust and bipartisan process.

6 (8m 36s):
It is a measure of the fact that in the end, this is something that is such a sort of rudimentary demonstration of government functioning, that it was going to be harder and harder for Republicans to be standing in the way of it, not impossible. And I think it's worth reminding ourselves that achieving an infrastructure bill is the kind of thing that presidents have been talking about for years has

9 (8m 58s):
Rebuild our industries. It is also time to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure.

6 (9m 6s):
It was a running joke obviously, and the Trump administration, they kept talking about it. It was infrastructure week and it never was. So the fact that they were able to get this thing done now in a kind of old fashioned form of political horse trading is a sign that there is at least some pulse still circulating through the veins of the U S Congress.

4 (9m 26s):
And then there's the other sort of half of this big infrastructure, vision of president. Biden's what has been called human infrastructure, also known as build back better,

5 (9m 40s):
And then we'll increase opportunities with better jobs with higher wages.

4 (9m 45s):
The year is almost over and it doesn't look like we'll have anything tangible before 2022.

6 (9m 50s):
Yeah. I mean, this has been this very agonizing process dragging on for months and months. I mean, it is worth also reminding ourselves, this is actually what legislatures do. They will hash things out, both between parties and also inside parties. And we're seeing this sort of play out under the Klieg lights, like a surgical theater. So we're sort of seeing it all in more detail than we might have 50 years ago. But over the course of months, you've watched as the number has gone down from something like $3 trillion. And then ultimately down to something closer to 1.7, five or $1.8 trillion. And there's two ways of looking at it. One is, well, that's a big loss for the president because this number that was floated in the beginning is, is now ancient history.

6 (10m 37s):
Or, and certainly this is how his team would want to present it. They would say, look, that's close to $2 trillion in infrastructure for human flourishing that we wouldn't have had otherwise. And we'll take it. And I think there is a genuine political debate going on about whether it was a mistake for them to lay out these big numbers at the beginning because it raised expectations or whether in fact that gave permission to moderates within the democratic party, ultimately who they need to be able to say to their voters, look, we've managed to whittle the price down and that is an achievement. And therefore we're willing to go along with this smaller number,

4 (11m 16s):
What is severely compromised version of build back better, have a worthwhile impact for Americans? Will they notice it? Will they say, oh, that's what Biden did in 10 years.

6 (11m 29s):
Look, the reality is it is much smaller than the maximalist position that was originally laid out. But the practical fact is that what you can achieve in politics is in the realm of the possible. And what they're able to achieve is not insignificant. If you take just one issue, that happens to be something that I pay attention to, which is a proposal for an enormous national service programs, civilian national service, that's called the civilian climate course

5 (11m 57s):
Conservation Corps. The president Roosevelt created during the great depression, put a new generation of Americans to work, helping us connect and conserve our public lands and become resilient in the process.

6 (12m 7s):
If that does in fact, get through the process that would introduce $20 billion for young Americans to be able to go off and spend a year of service of basically doing something larger than themselves in the spirit of the peace Corps or of FDR civilian conservation Corps. And that's the kind of thing that we don't talk about right now, very much. It doesn't get a whole lot of front page headlines, but when we go back and we look at the history of this period in much the way that we go back and talk about the history of the new deal, the civilian conservation Corps, it was a really big fact of our history and it, it played a meaningful role. And I think this is just one small example of how the details of this bill can be overwhelming to people, but are in fact important when it comes to understanding what it will mean for American history.

4 (12m 57s):
No thinking about what's important to people. So much of what's important to people sort of felt a little bit out of president Biden's control this year COVID Barron's inflation's supply chain issues. How nimble a president did he prove to be in responding to these things that the average American really cares about gas prices? You know, whether they can get the thing they ordered on Amazon in two days, or whether there's enough groceries at the grocery store for their families?

6 (13m 30s):
Well, the irony is that in some ways, for many years, Joe Biden has believed, he has said as much that the first rule of being president is that when you're in the job, whatever agenda you have will ultimately collide immediately with reality, the things that you can't anticipate or can't fully control, and that the test of your success will be your ability to respond to that. And now, of course, he's contending with very much that's principle playing out day to day. In many cases, as you go down the list, a lot of these issues are products of the failure to bring the COVID pandemic under control as readily and thoroughly as the Biden ministration wanted to do.

6 (14m 18s):
And I think as it, as it sort of imagined, it could because so much of the challenges of the year have been compounded or at least been aggravated by the ongoing stresses of the pandemic. And that's probably the single greatest difference between the year that he wanted to have. And the year that he's been contending with

4 (14m 54s):
More with Evan in a minute,

10 (15m 15s):
I'm Ben Jones. And I grew up in a small town called Jackson, Tennessee. And when I grew up, it was totally normal for people to have friends who were politically different from them. In fact, one of my best friends in high school, he was a white guy who was conservative. This guy loved Ronald Reagan. I hated Ronald Reagan. And, you know, we would just debate and argue about it all the time. But we were friends. I miss that feeling that you could just debate and disagree without distrusting somebody without disrespecting each other. And I just want to bring that back. And that is the point of the uncommon ground podcast. You've probably got some people in your life who you used to be able to talk to.

10 (15m 56s):
Now, you can't, everything is just too polarized. I think there is still a chance to have a better conversation in America. I'll bring special guests into the conversation like Meghan McCain, Sarah Silverman, Deepak Chopra, and others. Our goal is to find common ground, join me every Wednesday by following uncommon ground on Amazon music or wherever you get your podcasts,

1 (16m 22s):
Cover story, a new investigative podcast by New York magazine. That's got a lot of people on edge.

2 (16m 28s):
What is the number one rule we would all go. Don't

1 (16m 32s):
Your clients. It's a gnarly personal look at the underground psychedelic therapy world and its boundary problems.

2 (16m 39s):
All my clients try to have sex with me during these sessions. And I was like, I don't think I'm going to try to have sex with you. And he's like, yeah, you will

1 (16m 50s):
Cover story season one, power trip, check it out on apple podcasts or wherever you listen.

5 (16m 57s):
We'll end. America's longest war. After 20 long years of bloodshed,

4 (17m 4s):
Evan, let's talk about something Biden achieves while also grossly failing the withdrawal of us forces from Afghanistan.

6 (17m 12s):
I think that withdrawing from Afghanistan was never going to be pretty, but it did not have to be as ugly as it was

11 (17m 20s):
The collapsed. No one saw coming began on Friday, August six with a fall of a provincial capital in the far west of Afghanistan,

6 (17m 28s):
We were seeing in such vivid and really painful ways what the end of the Afghanistan or would mean for the Afghan people for Afghans who had helped us. And we're being left behind

12 (17m 40s):
The desperation is undeniable as Afghans fleeing the Taliban scrambled to climb onto a C 17 taking off from Cabo.

6 (17m 50s):
I think that was clearly nothing that the vitamin illustration wanted or expected. And I think there are also good reasons why they were getting out of Afghanistan and why it's been something that he wanted to do for more than a decade. And those two facts are, are fused because part of the reason why the withdrawal from Afghanistan was chaotic and in some ways hasty was because Joe Biden came into the presidency, determined to get the us out of that war and not to be deterred by his own advisors or by his political opponents.

5 (18m 35s):
I was not going to extend this forever war and I was not extending a forever.

6 (18m 42s):
And so there was a degree to which that generated a momentum. And even as the warnings became clearer that the Afghan military and civilian government were not going to be able to withstand the Taliban's advance the plan marched forward. And in the end, the truth is Americans and the data supports this. We're really ready to get out of a war that we should have been out of years ago, but I think Americans are, are bruised. And I think Biden was bruised by how it happened.

4 (19m 20s):
And of course, as we discussed on the show a few weeks ago, Afghanistan now faces one of the most severe humanitarian crises the world has ever seen. And the United States has to face another very difficult decision, which is to provide potentially billions of dollars in aid to the Taliban or potentially turn its back on 20 million people who might starve to death this winter. Do we think Americans are going to be paying attention to how president Biden handles this crisis? Or do you think the evacuation of military forces from Afghanistan was sort of the last hurrah of Americans caring about what's going on in this country?

6 (20m 3s):
I think there are going to be two kinds of assessments of Biden's handling of the withdrawal and what comes after. One is going to be highly politicized. We know Republicans have set as much that they plan to make this into as much of a, an issue, try to tarnish his political standing, particularly in advance of the 22 midterms to watch the

13 (20m 26s):
President could ask the question, was there any mistakes? Would you do anything different? No. Why would you continue with this plan

6 (20m 33s):
And a failure, but there is also a legitimate one could say evidence-based discussion about what are America's commitments to the Afghan people and what are the ways in which purely from a national security perspective, the United States should be involved there in order to prevent Afghanistan from becoming both a place of enormous human suffering and a threat to its neighbors and to the rest of the world. And it's going to be hard to keep those things separate, but it's actually worth pointing out that they're not the same conversation and they're not necessarily the same critique you. I think one of the hard things to talk about because the withdrawal was so ugly. So chaotic is that, that was a reflection of the fact that the war went on in effect without political accountability for many, many more years than it should have.

6 (21m 22s):
And it's well-documented Americans were misled by political leaders about the state of the war, the prospects for victory or something like it.

14 (21m 33s):
The day the Taliban has been deposed Al-Qaeda's in hiding and coalition forces continue to hunt down the remanence and holdouts coalition forces, including many brave Afghans have brought America Afghanistan in the free world. Its first victory in the war on terror

6 (21m 54s):
And Americans were not asked on a daily basis to contribute to the war either in the form of taxes or in the form of conscription. It was not a war fought by all Americans and Congress in recent years has had actually historically low levels of people who have experienced either in combat themselves or have children who have served in combat. And those facts matter because it means that the war was essentially going on and on taking over for years without the usual political mechanisms, bringing it to an end. And when finally it did come to an end, all of that accumulated pressure and all of the ways in which Afghanistan was left, unprepared to govern itself after our departure became really tragically visible.

4 (22m 44s):
What do you think the president learned about, you know, executing an idea that he thought was really good for over a decade and seeing it shake out the way it did

6 (22m 55s):
The truth is I think that president Biden does not regret leaving Afghanistan. That has been a deep, almost very personal ambition of his. And I say personal because of course his son Bo was in the army and he talks about that.

5 (23m 14s):
And if people understand how much we have asked of the 1% of this country who put that uniform on willing to put their lives on the line in defense of our nation,

6 (23m 25s):
It's worth pointing out that there has not been a president since Jimmy Carter with a child who served in combat. So it is more than abstract for him. And I think we overlook that at our sort of analytical peril because it is a big piece of his decision-making at the same time, he's been doing politics a very long and he understands the really blistering damage that it did to America's image in the world and to his presidency. It would be malpractice on some level not to recognize that. But I think also the job of a president is to have to say that happened. That's not what we wanted it to look like.

6 (24m 5s):
It's not what we wanted it to feel like. Now I got to figure out how to move forward. Hmm.

4 (24m 11s):
You know, all told in his first year, I certainly heard a lot less about president Biden in my day-to-day even working in the news than I did about his predecessor. Was that in and of itself a success story for him that we're just thinking about the president less and talking about the president list. I think,

6 (24m 28s):
I think that was part of the goal. I mean, he was essentially trying to say, as he did at his inauguration, that politics does not have to be a raging fire that consumes everything.

5 (24m 41s):
Six doesn't have to be a raging fire, destroying everything in its path. Every disagreement doesn't have to be a cost for

6 (24m 50s):
Total war. And so on some weird level, his somewhat slender presence in our public conversation for parts of his first year was a proof of concept. And the problem of course is also that we look to our presidents, particularly in moments of crisis to lead us out and to make us feel like we know where we're going. And I think the reality is that the forces of disunion and division that he's dealing with and that we're all dealing with were created over the course of if not one generation, two generations.

6 (25m 31s):
And it has to do with our politics and our economics and the way we interact with one another online and everything else that we know. And so the fact that it took 50 or 60 years to create the mess that we're dealing with right now, the realistic answer is it's going to take more than one year and maybe even more than the next three years to get us back to something a more reassuring.

4 (25m 51s):
And in the meantime, our democracy is not looking too hot. This is a year that began with an insurrection that had the explicit intent of blocking a free and fair election or overturning it even, you know, just a few weeks ago, president Biden had to hold a democracy summit and concede that American democracy isn't in the best shape

5 (26m 15s):
Here in the United States. We know as well as anyone that renewing our democracy and strengthening our democratic institutions requires constant effort.

4 (26m 26s):
Now it's unfair to put saving it on him, but we are in a bit of a pivotal moment here did his first year teach us anything about how he might try to put the train back on its tracks

6 (26m 42s):
Because of the state of American democratic disrepair, which is real and serious. It's tempting for us sometimes to say, well, maybe we should just not talk about democracy as much. Maybe we should stop preaching to the rest of the world about it. But actually there is a difference between announcing that democracy is a worthy aspiration and pretending that we're somehow an icon that everybody can learn from. And I

3 (27m 7s):
Think Biden's trying to thread that needle. The key distinction between Joe Biden and his predecessor is that Biden acknowledges yes, we are not, and probably never have fully achieved our democratic ambitions to provide rule of law and reasonable opportunity and justice to all people. There's just no question about that, but at least he is oriented in the direction of trying to achieve it.

6 (27m 36s):
And I think the difference with his predecessor was that was a president who was actively seeking to undermine the integrity and the credibility of American democracy. He was openly mocking the fact that it was even a goal that was worth pursuing. And what Biden's trying to do is to say to the rest of the world, yes, we're not perfect, but we believe these things are worth pursuing. And I think if you give up on that, then you're really, you're really losing the democratic project and he's not willing to give up on that.

4 (28m 24s):
Evan Osnos is a staff writer at the new Yorker and the author of Joe Biden, the life, the run and what matters. Now our show today was produced by Jillian Weinberger it's today explained

1 (29m 1s):
Cover story, a new investigative podcast from New York magazine. That's uncovering some secrets from the psychedelic underground.

15 (29m 9s):
So basically in December of 2019, Dave got an email from this woman. Hi, there

1 (29m 16s):
I am a student at California

2 (29m 18s):
Institute of integral studies in the weekend program. I hadn't experienced in my first two years where I was essentially recruited by a TA into an underground guide training.

15 (29m 29s):
She had been training to become a psychedelic therapist with Francoise and her husband in this underground training program that they had. And she'd already reached out to James Kent, another podcast, or that we know

16 (29m 41s):
Hi,

15 (29m 42s):
How are you? Because she was feeling really weirded out. I felt like I woke up from something and I was like, who else is away?

16 (29m 50s):
You're on speakerphone. Do you mind if I record this conversation,

15 (29m 57s):
Listening to the tape of her, I was just sort of reaching out to you. Cause I'm like it happening. It's really clear that she was trying to find other people who understood what she'd been through or who could see what she saw. I'd really appreciate it. If you didn't use my name or anything for now. And eventually she was sent to us. I was searching for anyone who like would get it and talking to her is actually what really kicked off our investigation. Check out cover story, season one, power trip on apple or wherever you listen.