1 (9s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. By the time you hear this episode, things may have changed or not for months, Russian troops have been massing along its border with Ukraine, the U S and NATO allies. See this as evidence of an impending invasion. Ukraine is not so sure this week Russia started withdrawing. Troops says Russia. The U S says, it's not a meaningful pullback on Thursday, the U S Russia and the EU all agreed that artillery shells landed in Eastern Ukraine. Ukraine says that shelling was Russia. Russia says that shelling was Ukraine. Meanwhile, world leaders and diplomats have been banging the phones. It's not clear how effectively trying to broker a solution.

1 (54s):
What do we know for sure? First president Biden is confident of the probability that Russia is about to invade Ukraine. Second Biden is confident that there is zero probability that he'll deploy us troops to Ukraine

2 (1m 9s):
Or not. That's a world war when Americans and Russia starts shooting at one another,

1 (1m 13s):
The U S has a tool it can and does use when it wants to influence another government sanctions.

3 (1m 19s):
How ineffective sanctions have been in deterring Putin in the past? Why should the threat of new things give him pause?

2 (1m 27s):
Well, because he's never seen saints is like the ones I promised he will be imposed. If he moves number one

1 (1m 35s):
With world powers in a holding pattern, this is a good moment to step back and look at how the U S came to rely so heavily on sanctions and also ask how they work.

4 (1m 45s):
They do really involve the actual use of force, or sometimes a threat, a force, but they don't necessarily have the same intensity, always as kinetic warfare.

1 (1m 55s):
That's Nick molder. He's an assistant professor of history at Cornell. He's got a new book out the economic weapon, the rise of sanctions as a tool of modern war.

4 (2m 5s):
You have war or kinetic warfare as, as the most intense kind of use of force. You have attempts at persuasion or coercion that can be threats or message sending and sanctions are somewhere in between.

1 (2m 21s):
Nick says to understand how the U S uses sanctions. We need to go back a century.

4 (2m 31s):
It started happening about a hundred years ago during and after the first world war

5 (2m 38s):
A little bit over the brain into the boiling cauldron of war.

4 (2m 42s):
And at that time, that war was so terrible that involve trench warfare and enormous amounts of casualties on a scale that people weren't necessarily familiar with

5 (2m 53s):
10 million men dead of this war, and perhaps 100 million persons to whom death would be a blessing rights and American ambassador in Europe. And he adds the Hills about, are not blown to pieces worse than the whole social structure and the intellectual and spiritual life.

4 (3m 12s):
And the thing they wanted to do most was to try and avoid a repetition of that war. And in order to stop countries from going to war, they needed something that was powerful, potentially as powerful as war itself, but that wouldn't be war itself. And that's kind of where sanctions come in. So in the war, they had used this instrument of policy of economic blockade, trying to weaken the adversary with deprivation, trying to cut off their access to exports and imports and income, money, goods, finance commodities, and that became the model for economic sanctions and the first organization that had the power to do that until you sanctions was the league of nations.

4 (3m 55s):
So the is predecessor to today's United nations.

1 (4m 3s):
When is the first time that we see sanctions like a blockade? You can't get food in or out. When is the first time we see it used and used in a way that you might say, okay, that worked. That's why we kept going with it.

4 (4m 17s):
So initially, because the use of blockade and world war one had been so severe in its effects on civilians, the hope of the people in the league of nations was that they could use the sanctions instrument as a pure threat so that you wouldn't actually have to implement it because they thought people still have this memory of how much hunger they were suffering from in the war. No one in their right mind is going to actually risk any kind of political behavior that would prompt this instrument to be used against them. And the times that they used it successfully were in the 1920s. So there were two incidents, two small border wars in the Balkans at that time, Yugoslavia, Albania, and then Greece.

4 (4m 60s):
And in two cases, there, there was a border war that broke out. In the case of Greece. It actually had a very funny name. It was called the war of the stray dog. Okay. Why? I mean, I'll leave it to your imagination, how a straight dog can lead to a border war, but you know, very, you know, sort of small scale incidents, but they had a powder keg potential, right? They could set off another war after all the first world war itself had started with the assassination of this Austrian Archduke Franz to not in 1914 in the Balkans. So everyone was very worried that if you let these small wars rage, ultimately they're going to become a sort of spark and it's in their books and they're going to lead to a much bigger, great power conflicts.

4 (5m 42s):
So it was important to nip them in the bud quickly. And in two cases, first in 1921 against Yugoslavia, and then in 1925 against Greece in this war of the straight dog, the league of nations threatened to use sanctions if they didn't restrain. And both of those times that seemed to work and the situation was quickly deescalated.

1 (6m 3s):
And what was the threat? Exactly. We're not going to let food into the country. We're not going to let you sell your goods on the market. So you guys won't have any money. What, what, what was the actual threat?

4 (6m 12s):
The threat was a number of things put together, but part of it was a Naval blockade and both of those countries were dependent on ports for their imports. So you can imagine a small country, partially landlocked countries that are dependent on ports and maritime supply lines, that they were very worried about that. And then there was also the idea that they, for example, wouldn't be able to sell their goods anymore in other countries. And that was kind of a package that was threatened and it included potentially food supplies. And that was very worrisome to them as well.

1 (6m 44s):
Was anyone at the time making the case, like we're going to avoid trench warfare, we're going to avoid guys shooting at each other in an open field. But if we do this, we're going to be starving people to death. Was anyone saying that or

4 (6m 56s):
Yeah. Yeah, no. So that was very explicitly the threat. And that's really one of the paradoxes of sanctions, particularly in this early period that they are meant as a deterrent. So a threat that is so severe that you don't want to do whatever the thing is that would make the threat real. But in order to do that, the threat needs to be so total and severe that if the actual, your bluff gets cold, you then have to do things that are very, very inhumane and you have to target civilians. And there's kind of a paradox because in order to make the threat credible, you must threaten this sort of behavior. That in a sense you wouldn't really think of as preserving peace at all, right? That would be in a sense, going to war at waging, total war on civilians, but it was hoped that in order to make a credible, you had to make a total.

4 (7m 43s):
And interestingly, at the time, there were also feminists, for example, who wrote to the league of nations and set things like women and children, they don't support war. They're not the ones who are pushing governments to go to war, but they are now being targeted. That's unfair. But then the sanctioning is the people who designed the sanction said, sorry, but actually they too need to suffer the consequences. Or there's not going to be a kind of broad public opinion that is going to move towards peace in the country. So you have to target people who they actually accepted for innocence. Otherwise this deterrence model doesn't work.

1 (8m 14s):
God, that's fascinating. I wonder what the backroom conversations were like when this was all being conceived of the idea that yeah, women and children are civilians normally where we're able to keep them out of the shooting until we can't, but, but sanctions affect everybody right away equally because everybody starves together. A seven-year-old who wouldn't go out onto the battlefield is going to starve along with the 21 year old. Who would, wow. I want to ask you about when a shift started to happen. So sanctions were originally conceived as a way to keep peace on the European continent and they did work to prevent war between smaller countries. When did that start to change?

4 (8m 52s):
Yeah, it began really to change when there was a massive economic crisis that was global, the great depression, and that began in the late 1920s. And it got much worse in the early 1930s. And one of the side effects of the great depression was that there was a very broad global turn towards nationalism. People became much more distrustful. People become more fearful. They start to blame certain groups for economic collapse or for economic loss. And that also led to a number of countries to embark on a much more aggressive attempt to revise the territorial order, the international system that would be produced by world war one.

4 (9m 32s):
And those are countries like Mussolini's Italy, which was the first fascist regime, Nazi Germany, and also the military regime in Japan. And they were really intent on building their own empires on changing the borders, expanding their hold over territory and resources.

6 (9m 49s):
One handed to this do check in 15 years of power has made his people believe that at home, they are marching to a new prosperity and abroad. Italy is rebuilding the Roman.

4 (9m 58s):
And initially the sanction has tried to confront them with further threats of economic blockade. But when you confront a regime that's already ideologically quite radical and inclined towards nationalism. You actually, in this case in the 1930s, it turned out this didn't work to restrain them. It actually fed their anxieties that they had to act more aggressively, more quickly to secure those resources for their people. And at the time territorial conquest was still seen as a way that you could potentially become self-sufficient. So the real tragedy of the 1930s is that sanctions had worked in the previous decade, but precisely when they were used in the wake of the great depression, they ended up actually accelerating political and economic disintegration in the world

1 (10m 45s):
Because a country like Germany hears, we're going to blockade you. We're going to keep food from getting in. If you continue down this path, the path that led to world war II, and instead of getting scared in the right way, Germany gets scared in the wrong way. And it's like, we better go out and conquer some territory so that these blockades can't work. We need to be bigger and stronger.

4 (11m 5s):
Exactly. Yeah. Scared being scared in the right way. I think that's a great way to put it. Yeah. Wow.

1 (11m 11s):
So back in the 1930s and forties, the United States is not part of the league of nations. It's not part of the group that generally puts the sanction pressure on was the U S itself using sanctions at all as a threat.

4 (11m 25s):
They were not part of it for a large part of this period. They were very much kind of torn internally the United States. So there are people who are internationalists who think the United States should become a member of all these international organizations that it should do much more to try and maintain world peace. And then there's a very big group of Americans in the twenties and thirties who actually think no, that actually gets the United States involved in these endless foreign wars. That's the old world where a new, a new country, young country. We don't want to have anything to do with that. And if you start with sanctions, it will escalate to war. So let's not be part of any of this, but of course in the thirties, you do get all of these regimes, very radical regimes, nationalist regimes that begin to challenge the status quo in very dangerous ways.

4 (12m 13s):
And ultimately Roosevelt the president, FDR, he does begin to use economic sanctions because he realizes that the United States actually has quite a lot of levers that it can pool. So this is kind of interesting because at that time, particularly in the late thirties, early forties, for example, the United States is the world's largest oil producer. And it has the power to stop oil suppliers to all of these other countries. And some countries are actually very dependent on American oil supplies. So America's kind of like Saudi Arabia. At that point, it can stop the tankers from going across the ocean and that potentially can bring the economies of other societies to halt. And in 1940, in 1941, they actually twice use this.

4 (12m 57s):
Once they use it against Spain where the Spanish that they're under this dictator, Francisco Franco, and he's kind of tempted to side with the fascists and at the right moment, Roosevelt actually withholds oil from Spain and Frank realizes, oh, this is going to turn out badly. We're totally dependent on the us. And he actually also does not join the war. He remains neutral for the entire duration of world war II. So there again, it ends up working, but one year later, the United States tries the same thing against Japan. And in the summer of 1941 together with Britain and the Netherlands, they impose this big oil embargo on the Japanese economy and Japan is an island.

4 (13m 40s):
It has no oil. It's totally dependent on overseas supplies. And the Japanese respond by this by realizing, okay, well, we need to now conquer resources by force. We have to take over most of Southeast Asia, if we want to remain self-sufficient and keep our economy running. And this is one of the things that make mixed Japan attack the U S at Pearl Harbor. So sanctions actually drag the United States into the Pacific war in the second half of 1941. Wow.

7 (14m 9s):
December 7th, 1941 date, which will live in infamy. United States of America was suddenly and deliberately attack of the empire of Japan.

8 (14m 41s):
This is advertiser content from the American cancer society

9 (14m 45s):
To my community. The people who allow me to be myself, no matter what and who are there for me through the and downs of my cancer journey. And it's been a journey. I was born in El Salvador and grew up undocumented in California. It was a hard start and they only got harder. When I was pulled out of the closet at 15, I had to face my parents' worries about having a gay son. Later that year, I would faint a lot in school. I was diagnosed with leukemia, which eventually created a mess in my brain. Mom, you sacrificed so much to be like primary caretaker. You went through the painful process of donating your bone marrow. To me, I'm your only child.

9 (15m 26s):
And you gave me life twice that you really show me what it means to be a father, to stay committed, regardless of any circumstances for people like me, circumstances can be hard. One in four queer adults in this country don't have health insurance cancer remains the leading cause of death for Latinos in the United States. I am undocumented American. I'm a community organizer in Los Angeles, and I want to become a college counselor so I can help young people know that they belong. And I will make the most of my life, regardless of my diagnosis, con mucho more Jose Guevara

8 (16m 7s):
To learn more about how the American cancer society is addressing cancer disparities through direct work and communities and investments in making the healthcare system more equitable for patients and their families visit cancer.org/health equity.

10 (16m 24s):
Have you ever wondered whether New York city bagels are really better because of the water or why the mafia got it, start in Sicily's lemon groves, or if those CBD infused seltzers actually do what they

1 (16m 36s):
Gastropod is a podcast exploring food through the lens of science and history. Each episode journeys into the weird and wonderful as we uncover everything you never knew about your favorite food. I'm Cynthia Graber and I'm Nicola Twilley and web

10 (16m 50s):
You're obsessed with food or someone who wants to learn more about what's on your plate. We'd love for you to join us,

1 (16m 56s):
Listen and follow gastropod on apple or wherever you listen to podcasts. We're back with Nick molder. So even those sanctions helped get us into a war. The U S decided to keep using them. At first, in a limited way,

4 (17m 17s):
In general, the United States kind of avoids using sanctions in that very big, comprehensive, provocative way that got them into what we're two, but they do keep that lesson of what went wrong with Japan somewhat in mind, because they never actually, for much of the cold war imposed sanctions against the large industrial states, they in the cold war as the United States is fighting the Soviet union and or competing with the Soviet union rather and competing with communist China. They don't use sanctions that are as severe. They never cut off all oil suppliers or anything that, and it wouldn't have really worked because the Soviet union itself has enough of those resources. It's a very large country, right? It controls one sixth of the Earth's surface.

4 (17m 58s):
So for most of the cold war, so the 1950s, sixties, seventies, eighties, the United States ends up using sanctions mainly against small countries. The embargo against Cuba. That's kind of a good example of the sort of sanctions the United States has been using in the last half century. So Cuba it's very interdependence. It used to be at least very interdependent with the United States economy. And the embargo against Cuba is a pretty severe imposition on their economy. And there's a few other cases North Korea, for example, because there's the Korean war.

1 (18m 32s):
So you mentioned Cuba, you mentioned North Korea. Tell me some other places where the U S has used sanctions since the, let's say seventies, eighties, nineties, and the, the types of sanctions that we're seeing.

4 (18m 45s):
Yeah. So the United States in the seventies gets this extra kind of shorten the arm from the fact that there's a lot of things changing in the world economy. There's a new kind of wave of financial globalization that happens. And at the core of it is the U S dollar. So it's the control over what becomes really the global reserve currency. That's very powerful. The United States can exploit this and much of international trade. And a lot of international banking happens through dollars. And at some point that means there's always some aspect of companies or banks as activity that happens in us jurisdiction. So the United States can use whatever that little leg that is in a us jurisdiction is to try and exert control over the transactions as a whole.

4 (19m 31s):
And so the use of the dollar since 1970s is really key to the way that the United States has used sanctions. And at first, for example, does this against Iran?

11 (19m 41s):
Good evening. The us embassy in Tehran has been invaded and occupied by Iranian students. The Americans inside have been taken prisoner and according to a student's spokesman will be held as hostages.

4 (19m 52s):
So in 1979, there's a big revolution in Iran and the shot is overthrown. And the Islamic Republic under Khomeini comes to power. And immediately what the United States does is it freezes all of the assets about 11 or $12 billion of Iranian assets held in American banks. And that's something that you see quite a lot subsequently. So that oftentimes is now the way that the U S begins with an M a use of economic sanctions, but it's not the only way. Sometimes they can also target not just their reserves, but also their exports. So they try and prevent them from selling things. Abroad.

12 (20m 26s):
Opposition must be clear. I am ordering that. We discontinue purchasing of any oil from Iran for delivery to this.

4 (20m 38s):
They drive down the amount of export earnings that those countries can have, and that puts them in difficult economic situations because they have to make really tough choices about how to distribute the resources that they do have.

1 (20m 51s):
It's the top of your head. And I asked because you're an expert. Can you list the countries that the U S has put sanctions on since the nineties?

4 (20m 59s):
I mean, there's probably too many, too many for me to accurately list, but since the nineties, I mean, it's a, it's a pretty big list. So some of the most important cases I think you would have are Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Venezuela, Bellaruse Yugoslavia, Ethiopia, and Eritrea. It's also put sanctions on Russia. There are certain technological restrictions against China, Myanmar, Syria recently. So yeah, it's a pretty, pretty long list. Yeah.

1 (21m 30s):
And it seems worth pointing out that all of those countries you listed the vast majority of them, the United States has not necessarily gotten what it wanted from those countries.

4 (21m 40s):
Yeah. So in most cases, I think it's clear that if the goal of those sanctions was behavioral change, only a very small amount of them have worked, or they've worked only a little bit, but not actually fully. And yeah, I think that at the moment, what you see is that these sanctions are easy to impose. They're much more difficult to lift and when a government decides that it can risk or it can, you know, it will take its chances to try and write out the sanctions. Then it retrenches, they often try and at times try and ferment nationalism and make people rally around the flag. And then the conflict basically becomes kind of frozen. So there's no actual prospect that it's going to lead to better diplomatic relations, or that they're going to give up on this policy that the U S wants them to stop pursuing.

4 (22m 27s):
So in, in most cases now, we're, I think many sanctions regimes have ended it in a kind of impasse

13 (22m 32s):
Today. I'm announcing a series of measures that will continue to increase the cost on Russia and on those responsible for what is happening in Ukraine first as authorized by the executive order. I signed two weeks ago, we are imposing sanctions on specific individuals, responsible for undermining the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and government of Ukraine.

1 (22m 55s):
Can you tell me about what happened in 2014 with Crimea and Russia, and then the U S sanctions that followed?

4 (23m 2s):
Yeah. So in 2014, this whole crisis that happened after the, my Don revolution and Ukraine led to Europe and the United States together imposing sanctions on Russia because Russia reacted to a new pro-Western government coming to power in Ukraine, and it took over the Crimea, it annexed the Crimean and occupied it. And it also helped separatists in these two regions in Eastern Ukraine. And that was a pretty big shock because there hadn't been a major kind of war or conflict like that in, in Europe, at least since the late nineties, since the, the Balkan wars and a lot of European countries realized that they had to try and do something to show Russia that you can't just take over territory, like the Crimea and an exit, right?

4 (23m 49s):
That's a breach of international law and it needs to be punished and you need to enforce the norm that you can't simply take territory. Otherwise we're back in the 1930s, so to speak, But those sanctions were difficult. And that brings us to a pretty interesting thing, which is that the success of sanctions depends a lot on the global economy. So different countries have different kinds of links. Some are much more connected economically than others. And one of the reasons why the United States find it so easy to use sanctions is that it has a global currency, almost everyone uses, but it actually doesn't directly trade with many countries around the world.

4 (24m 33s):
And also imports and exports. Aren't that big a part of the us economy, there are only about 25, 20 6% of GDP, but yeah, the Netherlands where I'm from our exports and imports together are 150% of our GDP. So, wow. Yeah. And for many European and Asian countries, that's the case. So we have a lot of trade and that's why they're much more hesitant to use sanctions because when you do in post sanctions, you basically cut in your own flesh. You very quickly impose damage and costs on your own economy, as well as on that of the target and the us doesn't really have that problem. It has a really big domestic market. It mainly is driven by its own consumption and it finds it much easier to do.

4 (25m 16s):
And I think what you see what you've seen since 2014 and what you see now as well, and these discussions between the, you know, different members of NATO about what to do about Russia and Ukraine and the sanctions. You see a big divergence between Europe and the United States on how much pain they're willing to impose on Russia. And that has something to do with the fact that Europe is much more directly economically linked to Russia. So if they're going to post of your sanctions, that's going to hit them much more severely than it will affect the U S

1 (25m 48s):
That's interesting. So the us puts specific sanctions on Russia in 2014, and yet Russia continues doing what it wants to do. At least that's how it seems to me have the United States sanctions on Russia actually worked in any fashion.

4 (26m 5s):
So that kind of brings us back to this question of what's the goal. There are now some people who say the only goal of sanctions on Russia is simply to impose costs on Russia to weaken their economy. If that's your yardstick, then they have worked somewhat. It they've lowered the long run economic growth rate of the Russian economy. They've reduced the amount of money available for foreign investment living standards of ordinary Russians also have been stagnant and even slightly falling in the last decade. So if that's what you think the goal is, then they've worked. If you think, and I think this is the real goal that we whole hoping for that Putin and the Russian government will change their behavior.

4 (26m 47s):
Then they've clearly not worked,

1 (26m 49s):
Right? I'm thinking of the countries you listed Russia, Syria, Venezuela, North Korea, all places where the us has not gotten what it's wanted in all of your months and years of research on this, have you thought of a more effective way than sanctions to handle conflicts? Like

4 (27m 4s):
I think in general, you can say that sanctions are very blunt instruments. And if they work, they tend to work very quickly. And sometimes they even work as a threat. So you don't even have to impose the middle, but if you do impose them and they don't work pretty quickly, then they end up actually worsening the conflict. So I think that in many cases, the United States should be much more open towards diplomacy and it goes striation. I think we need to think much more pragmatically about, can you actually reassure some of these countries that you're not putting them in front of an existential danger? Are they willing to somehow moderate their behavior in return for you lifting some sanctions as a concession? And the one reason why I am optimistic that if we try that we could do something with it is that that's actually the way that the sanctions against Iran have worked in the last decade.

4 (27m 54s):
So in Iran, the goal was to stop them from pursuing a nuclear weapon. And in 2015, Obama and Kerry negotiated this pretty, really a remarkable deal, a pretty impressive diplomatic achievements. And they go international verification from the IAEA, the international atomic energy agency to verify if Iran was also stopping nuclear weapons development, and in return, the Iranians called sanctions lifting. And right now they're negotiating a new deal right after Trump withdrew from it. Biden is now trying to negotiate a re-entry into that deal. I think that's should be, definitely, can be a useful model for thinking about how to use sanctions and how to turn these ineffective long run policies into something more politically beneficial.

1 (28m 41s):
It's almost like if you go looking for peace, you find peace. If you do things aimed at peace, you will get better.

4 (28m 49s):
Exactly. Yeah. It's all about establishing trust. Yeah.

1 (28m 53s):
Nicholas molder, author of the book, the economic weapon, the rise of sanctions as a tool of modern war. Thank you so much for being with us today. Thank

4 (29m 1s):
You.

1 (29m 7s):
Today's show was produced by Amina. <em></em> edited by Matthew Colette and Sean Rama's from engineered by a famous Shapiro and fact checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Noel king. Just a quick note. We're off on Monday for president's day. We'll be back on Tuesday with more today, explained.