1 (0s):
20:28 explain when he explained are they all of you know, we won the popular vote in Iowa. We won the New Hampshire primary. And according to three networks in the AP we have now won that of Adam talkin. I mean he blew everybody else out of the water.

2 (31s):
Bernie was close to forty seven percent of the overall vote and the next closest candidate was Joe Biden who was at 20% and then Pete Buddha judge was at 13% It was interesting because Biden's campaign was definitely kind of spinning Nevada as his second-place finish his

1 (49s):
comeback. The final results yet, but I feel really good. You put me in the position. You know, the Press is ready to declare people dead and quickly, but we're alive and we're coming back and we're going to win but when you look at that margin, it's over

2 (1m 7s):
20 points. So it's kind of hard to spend that as an amazing comeback. I wrote a piece on the entrance polls that were coming out before we were starting to get final results. Bernie was leading among white voters. He was leading among Latino and Hispanic voters. He was leading among every other age category besides 65 and

1 (1m 29s):
older and look that o we have just put together a multi-generational multiracial coalition, which is going to not only win in Nevada. It's going to sweep this country and it was really interesting. When you looked

2 (1m 45s):
at ideology, he was both blowing everybody else out of the water when it came to very liberal voters. I think he had like 50 percent of people who self-identified as very liberal, but he was also leading among people who identified as more moderate or conservative. So, I mean, it was just a very decisive win. I mean a New Hampshire it was a narrow win. I mean, it didn't necessarily show that he had really expanded his base of support which is kind of Bernie Sanders. main theory for how he can win the presidency is by turning out groups that haven't typically gone to the polls before reliably certainly let you know voters is a big one of these

1 (2m 25s):
we are bringing Our people together black and white and Latino Native American Asian American and so I think that Nevada was really kind

2 (2m 36s):
of the best Proving Ground for this test of whether he could turn out a diverse slate of Voters and and he proved that that he could do that on Saturday night. How do you end up doing with Latinos in the end? He was over fifty percent among Latino voters. Biden was like the next closest but I think the entrance polls had Biden either in the 20s or like teens among Latino voters pulling at that percent one strategist that I was talking to you in Nevada before the caucuses happened was saying, you know, the media has been focusing so much on Biden support among black voters as kind of providing this firewall kind of at the expense of realizing how much work Sanders has put into You the Latino Community?

2 (3m 18s):
I mean he has hired a lot of Latino folks to be at the top of his campaign, you know, he has a senior advisor who is Latino who has been organizing in the community for many years. He has a lot of State directors that are Latino, you know, he has people that are not just Outsiders coming into the community kind of asking them to turn out to vote at the last minute, which I think many Latinos feel like the Democratic party has been doing over past elections. They were on the ground. Ten months ago in Nevada, you know organizing a nice Las Vegas, which is a very heavily Latino community. And and so I think what they're trying to do is be talking to people early be hearing their concerns and offering up policy positions that meet those concerns early and just really trying to hit home that a Sanders Administration would put the concerns of Latinos for front rather than them being an afterthought and Beyond Latinos, Nevada is a much more diverse State overall than New Hampshire, Iowa.

2 (4m 17s):
How did that work out for burning? It really worked in his favor really? Well, and I think that you know next up. It's a whole different test because South Carolina is coming up and the conventional wisdom is that Biden has a lock on the African-American vote. He was part of the Obama Administration and Obama is still really beloved and black communities in the South but then you have to remember that just three days after South Carolina is really the big day and this is super Tuesday. This is where A huge number of delegates are up for grabs. We have States like Texas. We have States like California which has 400 delegates or more up for grabs. And these are states especially Texas in California that have heavy Latino populations.

2 (5m 2s):
And if he does really well on super Tuesday, we're going to have a lot better of an idea of how close he might be to winning the nomination and this wasn't just about racial demographics.

1 (5m 12s):
You're not the only one who cares about the working class. Most Americans believe. Eve we need to empower workers as a matter of fact, you're the one who is At War With The Culinary Union right here in Las Vegas. We ever dreamed of we can have the support of unions all across this but division. I'm putting forward has the support of the American

2 (5m 35s):
people. There's this kind of intense moment in the last debate where mayor Pete challenge Bernie on whether or not he would be the best choice for workers in the country. Did that end up having an impact on the caucuses? So for those who might Not be familiar. So The Culinary Union is the most powerful Union in Las Vegas and maybe in the state and it's a Hospitality Workers Union. So The Culinary Union didn't endorse anybody but the leadership made it pretty clear who they didn't want and that was Sanders and the big reason that they had was they didn't like Sanders medicare-for-all plan because they were afraid that it was going to take away their union health insurance that they have, you know fought for for many many years, but basically what happened on Caucus day was something really interesting the actual union members were voting for Sanders and reporters who were there on the ground were interviewing these folks and a reason that kept coming up was yes, they really liked their union health insurance, but they also saw a lot of friends and family who didn't have the benefit of this union health insurance because they weren't Culinary Union members or you know, maybe they were undocumented and just couldn't get health care at all.

2 (6m 44s):
And so they wanted to basically We make sure that their friends and family had the same access to healthcare that they did and they saw Sanders medicare-for-all plan as kind of the best way to get that the message from The Culinary Union though, you know, like being scared of losing Health Care to a medicare-for-all plan. That's something we've been hearing for a long time from the Democratic establishment for more moderate candidates about Bernie. How did the establishment react to Bernie's huge? Landslide win? I think that folks in the establishment are getting a little I'm nervous, but I think at this point the moderate vote is still so splintered that you know, the establishment hasn't doesn't really have an answer for Sanders rise MSNBC in particular had James Carville on this

1 (7m 31s):
thing is going very well for blood to be a poop. I promise you he he's probably staying up watching us right now. Are you doing glad

2 (7m 37s):
Chris Matthews jerusem interesting World War two comparisons. I'm

1 (7m 41s):
reading last night about the fall of France in the summer of 1940 and the general Renault calls. Churchill and says it's over and shows us. How can it be? You got the greatest army in Europe. How could it be over? He said it's

2 (7m 55s):
over is this just the Democratic establishment having a tough time with a Democratic Socialist being the Undisputed FrontRunner now, they're struggling with that fact, but I think that there is a decent amount of questions about what is this mean for down-ballot races. What does this mean for house races and Senate races because I mean if Has retained control of the Senate and Mitch McConnell remains Senate Majority Leader any of these big ideas that Bernie Sanders wants to get done like the green New Deal Or medicare-for-all are essentially dead in the water. I mean, he can certainly pass Tough by executive order but he is going to have as much or more opposition than President Obama had with Mitch McConnell in the Senate and that's not going to stop anytime soon and could potentially get worse if Democrats.

2 (8m 47s):
Also, theoretically lost the house after Bernie won New Hampshire we spoke to you but then we also spoke to our colleague Matthew Iglesias who said that, you know, Bernie's just using these ambitious plans as a negotiating tactic and if he wins the presidency Matthew believes that he might actually, you know, compromise and settle for something a little less than say medicare-for-all like a public option and who knows maybe that applies to the green New Deal to have you seen Bernie alluding to that anywhere on the campaign Trail. I don't think on policy positions. He has been ready to compromise and I mean why should he he's not going to necessarily especially in a primary election, you know gin up the base by being like and we're going to compromise on Medicare for all and I think if that comes out at all, it might come out more.

2 (9m 35s):
So in a general election when he you know has to appeal to some more moderate or Republican voters who just don't like Trump and want to see a serious alternative to Trump. We have to remember that like negotiating stuff in Washington and like promising stuff on the campaign Trail are two very different things and usually presidents. Once they are elected tend to kind of soften their rhetoric because they're bumping into the actual rubber hitting the road of negotiating and getting policies done in Washington, DC.

2 (10m 16s):
Ellen Nelson covers politics of vocs after the break what Bernie's win means for everyone else in the race, you know, Bloomberg Biden Buddha judge gabbard. This is Advertiser content. Millennials are in debt like a trillion dollars in debt college is expensive rents are high and social media keeps telling us to treat ourselves yet. All this is hurting our wallets and our well-being your

1 (10m 59s):
world your world your world

2 (11m 2s):
explained. This is Millennial debt explained brought to you by LendingTree student loans High Cost of Living and credit card debt. Make up most of that trillion dollars that Millennials. Oh on top of that. Fomo fueled by social media has caused a third of Millennials to say they feel the need to spend to keep up with their friends even more astounding the impact of sustained debt is affecting their health studies show a third of Millennials suffer from anxiety or depression far more than ever before and over half of Millennials say their mental health suffers because of their debt figuring out finances can also feel like a black box think about student loans 65% of students say they didn't understand the terms of their loan when they got it.

2 (11m 46s):
If getting your finances and check as part of your plan for 2020 check out lending trees Marketplace. They can help you consolidate debts find the right loan for you and get you on the path to financial Independence find out more at LendingTree.com. That's LendingTree.com. Hi, I'm Ariel Jim Ross. And I'm the host of a podcast called reset reset is a podcast about the impact of technology how humans have shaped it and how technology reflects our values and biases Reset is also a podcast about how much good Tech has accomplished and how much better it could be if we listen to each other recently we've covered stories about how artificial intelligence is being used to track coronavirus.

2 (12m 27s):
We've also covered how to solve the problem of child Predators on gaming sites and why our night sky might soon be filled with thousands of new satellites subscribe to reset for free on Apple podcasts Spotify or in your favorite podcast app later nerds. Twin these outbox. We've got three states in the books. Now we had in Nevada on Saturday. We had New Hampshire a couple weeks ago and Iowa, who knows what happened there? But South Carolina is coming up this Saturday and it seems like there's a lot riding on South Carolina. Is that right? Yeah, there's a lot at stake for all of the different candidates.

2 (13m 11s):
Okay. So the biggest one is Papa Joe Biden. Yeah. Yes. Yeah Joe Biden is Really looking to South Carolina is the place that's going to rejuvenate his campaign which has struggled to pick up momentum up till this point and a big reason for that is because one of his strongest basis has always been among older African-American voters and they have a massive presence in South Carolina where the Democratic electorate is about sixty percent African-American. So Joe Biden has really said listen, let's wait until South Carolina to see what may be a more diverse electorate has to say and try to go from there

1 (13m 49s):
99.9% That's the percentage of African-American voters who have not yet had a chance to vote in America. One more number 99.8. That's the percent of Latino voters every night a chance to vote. So when you hear all these pundits and experts cable TV talkers talked about the race. Tell them it ain't over man. We're just getting started

2 (14m 15s):
but we did just get a hint of how a more diverse electorate would vote in Nevada and it didn't go binds way have any of the losses. He suffered in Nevada, New Hampshire the question mark hanging over Iowa affected him this far. Yeah, totally. I think it's really shaken people's faith in him as this candidate that's framed himself as the most Electable. I think multiple people I've talked to you especially critics of Biden will say if you claim that you're the most electable you have to win an election to prove that and so far in the primary cycle. We haven't seen that happen and he's really looking to South Carolina's place where he can prove that out. I think something worth noting is last fall.

2 (14m 56s):
He was crushing it and the state he had a 20-point lead in the polls is some of his support flagging because he may be took the older black vote for granted do you not Nurture it as one should that is the impression of many people in the state the sense that he assumed he was going to win so, you know he put in maybe more time and I would New Hampshire and didn't spend as much time as much money in South Carolina the Post and Courier does this tracker of the 2020 candidates? And when you look at the number of events Joe Biden has held in South Carolina. He is trailing Bernie Sanders. He's trailing Tom steyer. He is trailing Tim Ryan.

2 (15m 36s):
Dropped out a long time ago. So I think that gives you a sense of just how much face time he's putting in in the state. If you lose the South Carolina, is that the kibosh on the Biden campaign? I think it is I think because of the way that they frame this as the place that's going to save him. If it doesn't save him then he is in a really bad spot on top of that. I think right after South Carolina you have super Tuesday, which is just a few days after and the Ian is that probably know candidates are going to drop out right after South Carolina because super Tuesday is so close, but you go into that massive race with a much weaker positioning.

2 (16m 17s):
If you do poorly in South Carolina if Biden wins in South Carolina, what does that mean for him and super Tuesday? It gives him a bit more momentum. I don't think it's like totally guaranteed win or victory for him moving forward. But the reason South Carolina has mattered in the past a few. The momentum but also because you see several states that vote later in March ended up voting the same way. So that includes Alabama and some other places largely because the Democratic electorate in those States is very similar to South Carolina, or you have a larger proportion of African American voters the other candidate who seems to be betting big on South Carolina is I wear the same tie every day, but maybe different ties but the same style at least Tom steyer.

2 (17m 2s):
Yes. Yeah. Tom steyer has spent more than 18 million dollars. He's in advertising in the state. And on top of that. He has hired I think over a hundred staffers, which is just the largest presence that we've seen from any campaign. Thus far a big part of it is similar to the Biden logic. He's thinking that if he does really well in South Carolina that will help him really have a springboard moving forward since he hasn't really picked up any kind of traction up till now. What about our other friends Amy and Pete Amy and P. I think. Also face a really big question largely because both of them have struggled to get any kind of support from African-American voters both because they've had questions about their respective records a white South Bend police officer shot and killed a black man.

2 (17m 54s):
The incident has sparked outrage in the community and a call for mayor Pete Buddha judge to take

1 (17m 59s):
action. I will say that if anyone Who is on patrol is shown to be a racist or to do something racist? In a way that is substantiate it that is their last day on the street.

2 (18m 23s):
Amy similarly has gotten questions about her record as a prosecutor a new Associated Press investigation suggests 2020 presidential candidate. Amy Klobuchar may have sent an innocent teen to prison nearly 18 years ago as a top prosecutor in Minnesota Klobuchar tried the case of 16 year old my on Burrell. He was suspected of fatally shooting. When you're old taoiseach Edwards, neither of them has really been able to I think make inroads with African-American voters. And when you look at a recent poll from South Carolina from Winthrop University, I think Pete had one percent support and Amy had so little that it didn't register in the poll so tldr for both of them. This is a big chance to show that they have made progress on this front or an indication that they haven't and if they don't I think it makes it a lot harder for them to to continue to grow their support moving forward.

2 (19m 16s):
I think it's very hard to make the case that you should be the Democratic nominee when you don't have the support of a critical constituency in the Democratic base. And what about our old friends Elizabeth Warren and Bernard Sanders? What will South Carolina hold for them? Let's start with Warren Elizabeth Warren at this point also has been floating a little bit in the middle of the pack. And I think we'll probably see something similar in South Carolina. She hasn't struggled as much with African-American voters as P or as a me, but she also hasn't really done an amazing job effectively connecting with people and also hasn't had I think as frequent of it.

2 (19m 56s):
It's is in South Carolina. So I'm not thinking that we'll see anything massive. It's worth noting that if anybody watched the Las Vegas debate, you saw she had a really incredible night and had a massive breakout moment as she took on Mike Bloomberg. So that performance could potentially help give her a lift in the state. We saw that a little bit with the voters in Nevada that decided at the last minute, but what's unique to the state is that it had early voting this year. So a lot of people actually voted prior to the debate. Self and weren't able to factor it in whereas in South Carolina. We might see more folks who actually did watch the bait and made their decision based on them. And that leaves the senator from Vermont.

2 (20m 37s):
I mean, Bernie prove that he can bring together a diverse Coalition in Nevada this weekend. Does that bode well for South Carolina it definitely does and if you look at where he is in the state he is doing really well people who are there remember 2016 when he got completely crushed by Hillary Clinton. I think she won by 50 points and to see him I think pulling in such a strong position to continuing to bring back support has been in interesting for people on the ground and I think a really good sign for his candidacy that he can continue this consistent positioning as a front-runner across all these different states.

2 (21m 18s):
Not just you know, the super white. I wouldn't Hampshire electorate that we've talked about before so we've got South Carolina coming up on Saturday immediately thereafter. It's super Tuesday. I feel like we've been looking at these same few faces for an eternity now, is it is it all finally starting to take shape? It feels like it is I I think right now there's still so much up in the air. But after super Tuesday in particular, I think we'll have a much better sense of who is, you know doing well and who might be calling their campaign quits I would say that there is still a ton of uncertainty in the race.

2 (21m 60s):
There's a lot that continues to change consider the front-runner even a month ago. You know, Joe Biden is not looking as strong as he used to be and I I think the person who's now really being I'd in that position as Bernie Sanders and it will be interesting to see how his candidacy continues to play out as more diverse States continue to vote and how people respond to him as a candidate. He has, you know, identified himself as a Democratic Socialist, which has been polarizing for some people and I think prompted questions about how he would play with a broader electorate whether or not he's going to be able to continue to answer those questions will be Interesting to see and whether I think voters continue to support him and what he stands for will be the big thing that people are watching.

2 (22m 56s):
Let's--oh writes about politics at vaux. She and L in ilsan were working all weekend and you can read all the great coverage from them and the rest of our politics team at box.com. I'm Sean Rama's firm. This is today explained.