3 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from the Michelle Obama podcast. It's now on Spotify the series brings listeners inside the former first lady's most candid and personal conversations. It shows them what's possible when they allow themselves to be vulnerable to open up and to focus on what matters most and what that is family siblings friends Partners parents mentors relationships with ourselves and our health. She talks to Barack Obama. She talks to her brother. She talks to Conan O'Brien Valerie Jarrett Michelle Norris. Listen free at Spotify.com. the Michelle Obama podcast It's today explained. I'm Sean Rama's from and on today's show.

3 (42s):
We're going to talk about how awkward covid-19 could be not the virus, but the social stuff because we're inching towards month six in the United States with no end in sight and some states are super open. Some states are half open. It's summer people are out there recklessly doing stuff other people. Still very scared and it's creating a lot of tension.

2 (1m 7s):
So this one woman in the span of a single week. She attended a wedding in Pennsylvania on the West Virginia border and a funeral in Cleveland, Ohio the wedding they didn't really want to go it was a side of the family that you know, they kind of knew they were sort of anti maskers on Facebook and stuff but there was already kind of a tense family Dynamic going on. So there were like if we don't go to this wedding it's going to be seen as a dig. We just have to go we have to suck it up. We're going to wear masks whatever. So they arrived at the wedding and it's even worse than they thought that it was going to be even after all the Facebook post. The wedding is indoors. It's a hundred and fifty people there one of like three people that are wearing masks. The food is served buffet-style.

2 (1m 49s):
The only bathrooms are porta-potties. There is no soap or hand sanitizer. Their the coronavirus is not mentioned at all. People are dancing people are hugging and there's elderly people there. You know, it's like people are serious at risk, but because they were in a part of the country that at that point was not really affected too much. They assumed that they were invisible during the same week. They attend a funeral and what's funny is that there was actually a hundred and fifty people at the funeral but they arrived and the viewing was drive by so the family of the deceased was standing outside while everyone kind of drove through and said their condolences from a distance.

2 (2m 33s):
The funeral was the next day at a church at a very large Church. Everyone is social distancing and it was just really respectful. It was a Catholic mass and Priest didn't put communion in their mouths. It was just handed out. So yeah, so there were these it was kind of like being in two separate worlds one where there's a pandemic going on in one worth. They're just completely

1 (2m 52s):
ignoring it.

3 (2m 57s):
Rebecca Jennings you write about culture for box and I think these are good extreme examples of people trying to navigate things like weddings and funerals right now, but there's also some very unremarkable quotidian situations. We're all dealing with right.

1 (3m 13s):
Oh my gosh, totally so I was visiting my parents in Arlington, Virginia about a

2 (3m 20s):
month ago for my birthday. And you know, I got my hair done because it was impossible to get your hair done in New York because hair salons Open it was impossible to get an appointment. And before I was even inside they took my temperature with one of those like temperature guns. I had to sign a form that said, you know, I hadn't been on public transportation and each pen was individually wrapped in Saran Wrap. And I mean this was like a small business owner and she was you know, spending more money to make things safer for her employees and our customers and we were mask the whole time. It's like four hours. It was super

3 (3m 52s):
super. Can we talk about why your hair appointment takes four

2 (3m 55s):
hours? Because I get it died and I have platinum blond hair and it is such a bitch to maintain never do this. I do not recommend it so expensive. It's so long. It's terrible. It ruins your hair.

3 (4m 7s):
So you never considered letting it grow out and be its natural color for the quarantine for the

2 (4m 12s):
pandemic. Oh, I did that and it looked terrible so ferrite so back to your stories so that night we went out to dinner because it was like my birthday dinner and we assume that it was going to be like a an outdoor seating socially just and kind of place. And we arrived and it's so crowded like everyone was really close together with super packed and it was like it was a pedestrian-only street. So it's sort of like that all the time but then we arrive and they're like, oh, yeah your tables inside and I was like, I thought that was illegal. So we were sort of debating like we were like well do we just go somewhere else? Like there's not really anywhere around here at eventually we just did it and we sat inside pretty close to other people like would definitely within six be there were like four other tables in this one died.

2 (4m 57s):
Ding room I'm the waiters wear masks, but it was very weird and then across the room someone's celebrating their birthday and everyone just like sings Happy Birthday. I'm like, oh cool. We're all just like shouting are germs into each other's faces in this tiny submarine of a restaurant. Yay. Yeah, it's not great.

3 (5m 16s):
I think the thing were dancing around here in this interview and in our lives as we try to return to some sort of safe socialization. Is that no one really knows how careful everyone else is being? Right? Yes, and it kind of forces people to revert to like safe sex practices, right? Okay. It's like having the talk every time you decide to see someone or do something with someone. I mean, we have like a socially distance today explained get together a few weeks ago and we had to figure out okay who's comfortable with like food from a restaurant whose company people bringing food from home and eating said to him.

3 (6m 1s):
It was like a whole elaborate conversation just so we could figure out how to do like a potluck in a

2 (6m 8s):
park. Yeah. Totally. These are weird like most people don't typically have to have these kind of boundary setting chats with their friends and family, but we do now and it's know what yeah, no one knows what they're doing. There's actually a word for this insinuation anxiety.

3 (6m 30s):
Insinuation anxiety.

2 (6m 32s):
Yeah, I talked to a psychologist who as soon as she told me this word. I was like, oh my gosh. Yes, and it basically just means that we feel weird about insinuating that someone is doing something wrong or doing something bad.

3 (6m 46s):
This is something that was made up for like the pandemic

2 (6m 48s):
know it's apparently a very common thing the analogy that she used was that say you're trying to sell someone on something like maybe it's a piece of advice or a product or something and you Them, you know like Hey, listen, I have a conflict of interest here, you know, I will get paid more if you take my advice or buy this thing and counter intuitively. It makes the other person actually trust you more because they didn't want to have to go through the mental Hoops of assuming that you were profiting off of this because now they know and they're like, oh I feel better about this because you were honest.

3 (7m 22s):
Hmm. So is there a way to diffuse insinuation anxiety? Because it's not fun saying to your colleagues or your friends or even your family like hey, I'd like to see you. But first we need to go through this checklist to make sure that you're a responsible human being right

2 (7m 39s):
now for sure. And one thing that she recommended was kind of playing a social trump card. Like if you really want to set a boundary just blame it on something else. Like hey, like I'm going to see my elderly Aunt even though you should know one should be seeing their elderly on right now because it's a little bit weirder to say like I've seen your Instagram Is and you're hanging out with like 12 people all the time.

3 (7m 60s):
So no. Thanks. Wait a second. So you're saying you should lie.

2 (8m 4s):
It says it's a white lie. It's a nice lie, you know, you're

1 (8m 8s):
being safe.

3 (8m 10s):
Wow, but I want to live in a world where we're all big a little more honest with each other,

1 (8m 15s):
you know, and some people have had the pandemic

2 (8m 17s):
talk with their loved ones. They've kind of been like so what you been doing but a very coated underlying subtext there.

3 (8m 27s):
R yeah, I mean one thing I took away from your article about this at vox.com is like this pandemic is making a socially awkward generation even more socially

2 (8m 40s):
awkward. Oh totally and I remembered that was like the biggest response to the story when it published there were like now you all know what I'm going through here. Like I've already like this. So yeah, it's it's an evening out of the social competence chart.

3 (8m 57s):
Yeah, I mean like people who didn't know whether to like shake hands or high five or a hug or just like not at each other when they saw each other before

2 (9m 7s):
odion advised my

3 (9m 8s):
gosh. They're just doomed afterwards,

2 (9m 10s):
huh? Well, all the most awkward people I know are really into the elbow bump thing over like hey, I finally have something dorky and weird to do and now I have an excuse for it elbow

3 (9m 19s):
bumps will save us from ourselves. Yeah, I think you know there. Is a way to have like a communicative verbal elbow bump and that is just saying like hey, we are trying to stay very safe for obvious reasons and can we just have like a quick conversation about what you're doing so we can see if we're on the same page like that doesn't have to be painful does it

2 (9m 47s):
totally and actually I had one of those myself last night. I was going on a walk with a friend and this is a friend. She's a sort of in my little like bubble. We've been seeing a lot of each other. And we invited her down to come to this Lake Shore house for a week that we're doing and she was like, all right before I go can we talk about like how your parents have been socially distancing because my one of my sister's a doctor and she's been kind of pounding me. So yeah, I have had one of those conversations it is a little bit awkward, but there's bigger things at stake here, you know than just feeling weird.

3 (10m 18s):
So so I think we need to suffer the awkwardness to prevent the greater,

2 (10m 22s):
awkwardness of having coronavirus. Yes. Not fun when not

1 (10m 27s):
recommend

3 (10m 36s):
It's not all bad news covid has been producing some habits worth holding on to that's after the break. I started at the top of the show. I'm going to say it again now and then someone else is going to say that the end the show the Michelle Obama podcast is now on Spotify yellow Spotify wants you to know about the Michelle Obama podcast because the series brings you listeners inside the former first lady's most candid and personal conversations.

3 (11m 18s):
She's going to have them with Barack Obama with her brother Craig Robinson with Conan O'Brien himself. I guess they're I would just listen to that podcast over and over Michelle and Conan also Valerie Jarrett Michelle Norris. Dr. Sharon Malone. The episodes are going to focus on the relationships that shape us family friends mentors and also our relationships with ourselves and our own health. Michelle's really into that. She hopes the podcast will help listeners open up a new conversations and even difficult conversations. You can listen for free right now. It's Spotify.com / the Michelle Obama podcast Seagal Samuel your the co-host of boxes future perfect podcast.

3 (12m 14s):
We just spoke to our colleague Rebecca Jennings about how this whole insinuation anxiety thing has left anxious people even more anxious in the pandemic, but you wrote a hopeful piece strangely for you about how there have been a lot of positive outcomes socially even from this. Unprecedented experience of

1 (12m 37s):
ours. Yeah, I have to start by saying I think the positive outcomes have been largely for the super privileged Among Us. Right? So this is like not obviously for people who have had to work through the pain demick and high-risk situations, but for those of us who have been lucky enough to be able to work from home and to have kept our jobs and have reasonable amounts of income. I think the penta emic has kind of enabled some

3 (13m 8s):
potentially positive changes. Let's hear about them. What are your faves? Well, I

1 (13m 14s):
kind of wanted to get a sense of whether this was just me or whether this was happening for like a broader swath people. So I actually put out a survey to Vox readers and I asked them what positive habits and lifestyle changes have been coming about for them during quarantine and it was cool more than a hundred people responded from around the globe and You broad Trends leapt out at me by far the most common one was that people realized that in quarantine during lockdown? They've been reducing consumerism.

3 (13m 51s):
That's interesting though. Because I feel like when I walk down the street, I see Amazon packages

2 (13m 55s):
everywhere. Yeah.

1 (13m 58s):
This was earlier in the pandemic and I think at that moment a lot of us were just sort of like hunkering down and Just like feeling the change in lifestyle in terms of not being able to go to a mall or eat out at restaurants every week and all of that and they're just like generally saving money by not spending so much on trinkets that they realize they maybe don't actually need and a lot of people also told me that to the degree. They do have to spend on stuff. They are more inclined now to direct that consumption to small local businesses because they've been seeing a lot Shuttering and like really suffering economically during the pandemic and realizing.

1 (14m 41s):
Oh like these small mom and pop shops actually need our support to survive. Sorry, Jess. Yeah. Sorry Jess. Another thing has been again for the privileged Among Us this ability to slow down and put less pressure on ourselves. One person even wrote to me and said quarantine is forced me to slow down in ways. I haven't since I was a kid all my life. I've been on the go constantly for half my life. Right always busy busy. And so I basically think like the broad Trend that's happening is a lot of people are kind of looking around at their lives and thinking like, oh what was all that hyper-competitive productivity for, you know, like I've been measuring my self-worth and value as a human being by this capitalist yardstick and maybe there are other ways to measure my worth and value as a human being.

3 (15m 39s):
With that one. I really wonder how much it will last. You know, I think we all gave the planet a break during the real shutdowns. And of course, he saw all the memes saying, you know, we are the virus Nature's healing they can see whatever it was like the bottom of the Venice canals again. The skies are clearing, but the second we can is it everyone just good? Like finally I'm taking that trip to Europe. I canceled that I'm gonna go to India last and do that tore through the country. Is it all just gonna go back to normal Seagal? Are we going to lose everything we slow down and gained?

3 (16m 21s):
Well, first of all to

1 (16m 22s):
some degree, we are already seeing that right. We're already seeing, you know flights to different countries ticking up again, but tell you what, why don't we think about the positive things for a bit and at the end I promise I will give you some tricks. For how to maintain those positive changes post lockdown. All right, let it roll what else you

3 (16m 40s):
got

1 (16m 43s):
other positive changes people have been making exercising daily, like all these people who were previously not into fitness have just been going nuts staying in their houses 24/7 and so they're getting into like yoga and running and all that and they're like, wow shockingly this actually super improves my life. Yeah amazing.

3 (17m 3s):
I do yoga once a week

1 (17m 4s):
now, do you? Do yoga with adriene on YouTube because that's what I'm

3 (17m 7s):
doing. No, I thought she freaks me out. Is that the one with the dog? Yeah. What do you think? I know I don't know go with Allison and Nick they're friends of mine. Who do a zoom yoga

1 (17m 17s):
actual humans, you know? Yeah. Yeah weird. In other breaking news the sourdough obsession is real everyone wrote to me in the survey about how they're like obsessed with their sourdough starters, and they're obsessed with baking all of a sudden and cooking.

2 (17m 35s):
Especially vegetarian food

1 (17m 37s):
and I think a lot of people have just been spending more time in nature trying to go for hikes get out of the house crucially get their kids out of the house and generally just for people who can working from home. That is a change that a lot of people told me. They want to maintain post Coronavirus.

3 (18m 1s):
Is it time now to talk about how we maintain these things post

1 (18m 4s):
pandemic? Yeah, there are psychologists who specialize in Behavior change and basically that there are a few things you can do now to make it more likely that you will succeed in maintaining your good new habits down the line. So one thing you can do right now is you can prime your environment. For example, another one of the positive changes people have been making during this pandemic. They've been donating to charity more ice. To doing that when the pandemic started and and I realized that I just would get forgetful or whatever if I just left it to chance that I'm going to try to donate every month. So instead I just set up an automatically recurring monthly donation.

3 (18m 46s):
You're saying the machines can help us. Yes.

1 (18m 49s):
Keep our good habits. Yeah, so it could be the machines. It could be lets say the good habit you want to maintain is going for a run every single morning. One thing you can do is put your running shoes right by your bed and that will nudge you to go for that morning run first thing when you wake up, I like that a lot. I do similar

3 (19m 7s):
things like that with clothing or with like dishes. I need to take to the kitchen, you know, it's to be leave them in a certain place so you don't

1 (19m 16s):
forget. Yeah priming your environment. It's a good one. Can I give you another trick

3 (19m 21s):
a hundred percent?

1 (19m 22s):
Okay. So a lot of people when they do What's called the target Behavior The Habit they're trying to inculcate in themselves. Afterwards they reward themselves. So, you know, let's say you like go for that morning run and then you get a delicious milkshake or smoothie or whatever right as an award that it turns out is actually not the most effective way to do this. It's good to reward yourself, but make it an intrinsic reward not an extrinsic reward. So instead of reaching for that chocolate milkshake after every run. Pause after the run for 1 minute to just Savor the extra energy and strength and like physical awesomeness that you feel because that is actually going to seep into your brain in a more long-lasting way and it's more likely to get you to keep doing this habit.

1 (20m 16s):
Okay. Can I just say one other thing?

3 (20m 19s):
Yes. I feel like

1 (20m 22s):
it is important to note that if you do not emerge from this pandemic with any Amazing healthy awesome new habits like that's okay. Surviving a global pandemic is in itself an accomplishment. So if you managed to get through this without just being completely pummeled and destroyed by the end of it like congratulations you're doing great.

3 (20m 56s):
Segal that's like the ultimate positive note to leave it on.

2 (21m 0s):
Yeah. It's like you know what we're in the middle of a global pandemic. Okay, we've got it just cut ourselves a little bit of slack

3 (21m 7s):
Seagal. Thank you for bringing us some positivity

2 (21m 9s):
today anytime Sean.

3 (21m 15s):
Seagal Samuel is the host of a new series called the way through in the future perfect podcast feed together with our colleague Sean illing she's kind of put together a philosophy sample course to help you cope with all the ups and downs of 2020. You've got mindfulness Buddhism Christianity. Even Cornel West if you're interested just search for future perfect to wherever you listen to today.

2 (21m 36s):
Explain.

1 (21m 50s):
This is Advertiser content. How do our views about Community shape who we are and shape our choices and shape our

2 (22m 2s):
reactions. That's

1 (22m 5s):
my friend Michelle Obama the former first lady of the United States.

2 (22m 9s):
Okay, maybe we're not friends.

1 (22m 11s):
But I do think she's talking about me and she's talking about you too. I'm Tori young and I'm a writer here at vaux creative. I've been listening to the Michelle. I'm a podcast on Spotify and is forcing me and the best way to face the realities of my own Community recently. I learned that too and every size of us feel that we're lacking any meaningful relationships and Community isn't just the occasional happy hour if support its Aid its growth. It's even healthy disagreement.

2 (22m 40s):
It's who we are as human beings, right? We are pack

1 (22m 43s):
animals. That's Mia Birdsong a community organizer and author of how we show up reclaiming family. Lee friendship and

2 (22m 50s):
Community. Can you tell me

1 (22m 53s):
when you first recognized your need for a village? Let me tell you to people

2 (22m 59s):
is not enough to raise kids.

3 (23m 1s):
I want them to have people in your life who show them what it is like to be adults and

1 (23m 5s):
not have a partner. I want them to have people in their

3 (23m 8s):
life who show them other kinds of careers and so my kids have amazing extended

2 (23m 16s):
biological and legal and chosen family. I think I've become much More thoughtful about who I choose to invest my time and energy and because of that

1 (23m 28s):
so we don't necessarily need our communities to be bigger as much as we need them to be stronger like right now, how do we strengthen our communities during a pandemic?

2 (23m 41s):
We double down on being in each other's lives. I have this group of black women friends and when the pandemic started we started to meet virtually we got taken through this guy, too. Meditation and several of us myself included fell asleep,

3 (23m 53s):
even though we were not actually physically

2 (23m 55s):
together taking a nap with a bunch of other black women like it was so gorgeous and I didn't know how powerful that could

1 (24m 2s):
be on the podcast Michelle and Barack Obama talked about how their families doubled down on community to

3 (24m 8s):
one way or another they didn't have to do it completely

2 (24m 10s):
alone. There was a neighborhood or Community or extended family extended families structures around

3 (24m 20s):
I undid

2 (24m 20s):
that helped families raise their kids in loving environment and they didn't feel as isolated. This

1 (24m 29s):
got me thinking about what separates the real connections from the chatter in 2019. We spent an average of two hours and 22 minutes per day talking to other people on social media Michelle Kennedy knows a lot about this need for online connection. She's the founder and CEO of the social networking app for moms peanut you mentioned Is that when you became a new mom, you didn't have any other friends who were also a mom would you say motherhood itself is lonely. I did find motherhood lonely because I couldn't have those conversations where I wanted to be honest about what what motherhood meant. I think sometimes the time that you're most in need is the time that you don't always want to ask that's the time that you really need Community because you need your support network to kind of rally around you and tell you it's normal and tell you it's But it's not always pep talks in a tight-knit community disagreeing with each other comes along with being closed.

1 (25m 27s):
Here's me a bird song again though the relationships that help me grow.

3 (25m 31s):
But what those disagreements look

1 (25m 33s):
like people asking me smart questions

2 (25m 36s):
people being really straight forward

1 (25m 38s):
with an opinion that they have that's different from mine

3 (25m 41s):
our response to

2 (25m 42s):
this agreement is really the thing that matters the you're not

1 (25m 45s):
talking about those people who invalidate

2 (25m 48s):
you and yeah, I'm not trying to be friends with White supremacists like this

1 (25m 53s):
year has been tough on our

2 (25m 55s):
communities. Social pain can be real pain. It's

1 (25m 59s):
physical pain, but and I swear I'm not trying to be corny here the pursuit of connection and the joy of doing for others, it heals a bit of that and helps us find Our

2 (26m 10s):
Place one of the reasons I fell in love with you is because you're Guided by the principle that we are each other's brothers and sisters keeper. I think I figured out if I'm just chasing after my own success

3 (26m 27s):
that

1 (26m 27s):
somehow I'm going to end up

2 (26m 30s):
alone and I'm happy that that looks like hard work, but it never looks like lonely.

1 (26m 38s):
Listen to the Michelle Obama podcast to hear

2 (26m 40s):
more on community relationship building and self-love only on Spotify new episodes drop every Wednesday.