1 (1s):
Here's

3 (1s):
a business idea for anyone who wants it. Let's get helmets that are easier on the eyes helmets are like bulky and they make you sweat even more and they're uncomfortable wire helmet still so terrible in 2019 as a daily bike rider. I'd like to know anyway, when you get this hustle going go to mailchimp.com. They've got email Marketing Solutions. They got a website builder. They got a social post scheduler. They will help you. Turn your helmet hustle into a successful helmet Hustle. Everyone wants to be the next Steve Jobs to have that revolutionary idea that changes the world and makes just insane amounts of money.

3 (47s):
But on that road to riches there are so many failures. Remember Movie Pass movie past the fuck

2 (55s):
out the cash-strapped service known for a failed experiment to so unlimited movie tickets for just 10 bucks a month shuttered its doors for good over the

3 (1m 3s):
weekend remember?

2 (1m 4s):
Are knows

3 (1m 6s):
they're uh, nose-dived the

2 (1m 8s):
founder Elizabeth Holmes and another former executive await a criminal trial and

3 (1m 13s):
then there's we work the company that lets you rents office space something you can very much do on your own basically anywhere. I don't

2 (1m 23s):
want we were I mean, I don't want we work at any price. It's to Top of the World Ma. I mean, I just don't want

3 (1m 29s):
it after months of scandals the company finally sort of face planted this

2 (1m 34s):
this week a new dramatic twist in we work story here CNBC is now reporting that SoftBank is in advanced talks to take control of we

3 (1m 44s):
word but people have been mocking we work from day one. Even though this we work thing didn't get settled until this week Broad City called it this past

2 (1m 55s):
January mom. So she uses the urban landscape for a fast-paced work space with No Boundaries. Huh? Parkour is using the city as your gym. She work. This is in the cities our office so correct me if I'm wrong people are paying you to use the free public charging stations know what all the great male entrepreneurs do it. Okay, the kick something that already exists claimed it was their idea throw in some I'm fancy furniture and charged double for it. Okay, so she

3 (2m 22s):
work doesn't exist yet, but we

1 (2m 25s):
work does and remember going in for the first time. I didn't know what to expect and I was I must say

3 (2m 31s):
Charmed Derek Thompson has been to a we work Charmed by

1 (2m 36s):
the delicious coffee try and buy the free beer and charm by an office whose interior Decor. I think I would compare to a kind of Epcot San Francisco.

3 (2m 45s):
He's been covering the we work drama for the Atlantic.

1 (2m 48s):
This is a company that's doing a plain vanilla business. It is leasing buildings. It's gusting them up its adding free beer, then it's renting them at a higher margin to ordinary workers and businesses. Right? It's doing a relatively normal real estate thing, but it just grew like wildfire. I mean into dozens of cities with hundreds of thousands of members with dozens of Enterprise businesses. It became the largest owner of commercial real estate in little old places like Manhattan, but in the background as it's growing explosively, there's a sort of Slow Burn controversy and It's that essentially we work is a real estate company that's telling people that it's a tech company. So if you look at its business its buying buildings releasing them it's gusting them up and then it's short-term renting them to customers but it's receiving the press and the reputation and the funding and the valuation of the next Amazon.

1 (3m 36s):
So, you know, typically a business with weworks numbers, you'd think it might be worth say, you know, three billion dollars for a billion dollars, but it's being valued at like 20 billion dollars forty billion dollars. Maybe this company's worth. Rid billion dollars and that's super weird. So I mean I don't do you bake Sean?

3 (3m 54s):
I don't bake. I wish I could participate

1 (3m 56s):
your apology for the metaphorical purposes of this narrative, but you know, I might take tan before. Okay, let's say that you've watched a baking show before and so you decide to bake some cookies or brownies sure and you make a damn good cookie. So it's like you put it in the oven you wait a while it

3 (4m 8s):
comes out that kind of thing. Are you a

1 (4m 10s):
baking expert John? You might be I told you I see this. So look, let's say you beca Great Cookie. Yeah you saying thousands of cookies you doing really Really good job, and then the Venture capitalists comes along and says Sean. I think this business might be worth 40 billion dollars and your friends are like dude. I'm is a cookie baking company, right? Like you're not doing anything magical. You're just, you know, putting dough together and putting in an oven. This was the feeling that people were having looking at we work what you're doing isn't Magic. Why is your valuation magical

3 (4m 38s):
tell me more about Adam Newman. The guy behind this magical

1 (4m 42s):
valuation. Adam. Newman is an Israeli who grew up on a kibbutz who here knows what the kibbutz Raise your hand. Yeah communal Israeli settlement very educated crowd and loves to tell people about

3 (4m 54s):
it. And I've had a few discussions with Google about this. They sometimes call us kibbutz 2.0

1 (4m 59s):
and he founded this company and was very successful at convincing investors. That would be worth a lot of money

3 (5m 6s):
every we work that you open will

2 (5m 8s):
immediately create 700 jobs in your city just to build it and then a thousand jobs a year inside that we work for the next 20 years. So 20,000 jobs for 20 years just one.

1 (5m 18s):
Occasion in particular, he was very successful at convincing mossis own the head of the vision fund at SoftBank a Japanese conglomerate to give him billions and billions and billions of dollars with which he could buy buildings gussie them up and then rent them out for profit when I'm going to make a decision based on three months forward. I'm not going to

2 (5m 38s):
make the right decision must is very famous for making a 300 year plan. If you want to start thinking forward, you really have to think really far

1 (5m 44s):
away at the same time Adam Newman. It turns out even though he's talking about sort of Communal dream of the future of work. He's very quietly sort of engaging in double-dealing. He's using every opportunity to squeeze little dollars from we work. So for example earlier this year. It came out that we work was changing its name to the we company Adam Newman actually had bought the trademark to the name the we company and so he could force we work the company that he owns to pay him six million dollars to change its name. I'm to the week company a name that he owned Newman was doing things like this day in and day out and on top of the fundamentals that investors were looking at beginning to doubt.

1 (6m 29s):
There were also these concerns at this guy at the head of the company was just bilking the company for as much money as he could possibly grab from self.

3 (6m 37s):
I've also heard stories that Newman was like a quirky founder business leader boss all together.

1 (6m 45s):
Yeah. He loved to party. There were two Cardinal rules to observe. The first was to be sure to have shot glasses and cases of Don Julio 1942. He loved private jets. He loves smoking Partners private jets. He love throwing parties with the killer shots and Run DMC playing music there and then there was the music are paying customers would be complaining about how loud the music was.

3 (7m 10s):
But if we turned it down we get screamed and yelled at by Adam and his team an employee said,

1 (7m 16s):
I don't entirely begrudge founders. Who you know want to drink tequila and smoke pot and they're sort of private planes. Like that's kind of fine. I think what is weirder is the degree to which he was on the one hand telling people that we work is going to sort of elevate the world's Consciousness

3 (7m 32s):
the CEOs. It is our

2 (7m 33s):
responsibility to set the trend of the future and the trend is we versus me

1 (7m 38s):
while using the company to make so much money that he essentially spent like 80 million dollars on real estate in five years. It's that sort of double-dealing that concerns me more than the fact that a pension. for Don Julio

3 (7m 56s):
It sounds kind of fire Festival e the whole thing.

1 (7m 58s):
Yeah, I think for some people we work is the fire Festival of startups. And for other people fire Festival is the we work of concerts. These are both enormous debacles with charismatic people at the center of them who were humiliated by the course of events that became inevitable as the company reached. It's sort of sad conclusion.

3 (8m 22s):
So with fire Festival, it happens once people touch down and see That the emperor has no clothes. What is it for Adam Newman? And we were what is the

1 (8m 30s):
moment the moment of terrible Revelation for we work was the filing of the S1?

2 (8m 38s):
The filings reveal some lofty goals. It says its mission is to elevate the world's Consciousness

1 (8m 43s):
what the filing does tell us could be concerning to prospective investors. They

2 (8m 47s):
say themselves in their IPA fighting. They say that we have a history of losses and especially if we continue to grow at an accelerated rate, we may be unable to achieve profitability. They say for the foreseeable future and

1 (8m 57s):
when investors and critics of we were could see exactly what the company was. It became very clear that this was an organization of firm that had to spend two dollars to make Every time and that's why the valuation fell from 47 billion when the IPO was first would have announced in the middle of the summer to now just seven billion. Now that SoftBank has taken control of the company

3 (9m 21s):
and that's the big news this week that we work is being bought out by something called Soft Bank. Where does this all

1 (9m 27s):
leave Adam Newman Adam Newman has been evicted from we work and the eviction parachute has earned him. More than 1 billion dollars. So SoftBank has essentially said we are going to pay you to leave by a buying up to a billion dollars worth of we work stock be giving you a 500 million dollar loan to pay back some credit that you owe and see paying you a hundred and eighty-five million dollars over the next four years in exchange for Consulting with the new chief executive of we work a hundred eighty five million.

1 (10m 7s):
Over four years as a consulting fee is about 46 million dollars a year that is more than all but nine Chief Executives of public companies in America make and that's not to lead a public company. It is to advise the leader of a public company that he ran into the

3 (10m 26s):
ground that parachute is not golden. That's Platinum. That's some other

1 (10m 30s):
shit. That is Emerald perish if Emerald cry it is an emerald lace parachute. Wow.

3 (10m 35s):
How did he work that do it for

1 (10m 36s):
himself? Well, Well genius comes in many forms Sean and one kind of Genius is understanding how to Bilk billionaires out of the billion dollars. And if that is the genius of our age of scams, then Adam Newman is The DaVinci of the 21st century because that is precisely what he's done. He went to Moses on the head of the vision funded SoftBank. He said give me billions of dollars in order to buy real estate all over the world to lose money over and over and over again and then in order to kick me out. Me another billion dollars including a 185 million dollar consulting fee in order to leave. I mean it is a brilliant move if the end goal is to make as much money as possible for you and the generations of people to follow you.

1 (11m 22s):
It's a rather despicable move. If you care about people and communities in the Caboose Nick way that Adam Newman like to talk about his

3 (11m 30s):
company. Hmm. Let's talk about those people for a second here. What happens to surely the hundreds if not thousands of we work

1 (11m 36s):
employees. Thousand. Yeah, so this is a company that employs 15,000 people and the latest news that I've seen says that up to 4,000 of them are going to lose their jobs. This is a company that actually can't lay them off immediately because they don't have the cash on hand to do so, but soft bank, which is just taken over. The company does have the cash on hand to pay Adam Newman the disgrace founder over a billion dollars. I mean, it's a little bit of a rich situation and if I was working at we work now, I would be utterly Furious about the fact that I've been led by a Founder who has made a billion dollars while watching my stock that I was hoping to use to buy something in my life plummet to zero and that's if you get to keep your job and that's if you get to keep your job and you probably losing it.

1 (12m 22s):
You might get Severance it only last you a few months. I mean, I would be furious at the leader of my company if I realize that that was the

3 (12m 29s):
case. Well this company continued to

1 (12m 32s):
exist. I think it could fundamentally we work might be a legitimate. - if it's set its sights lower essentially the business of leasing real estate and fancying it up and renting it out to Freelancers and Enterprises who want to be there for a while that's a real business and other businesses do it sure, but the kind of wrenching changes needed to take a company with 50 billion dollar ambitions and transform it into a five billion dollar company. Those are wrenching changes and one of the wrenching changes is exactly as he talked about firing about 1/3 of your Workforce,

3 (13m 7s):
I guess so Don't get as like how anyone thought this was a hundred billion dollar idea. I mean when two comedians saw it for exactly what it was on Broad City. What

2 (13m 17s):
an hysterical business model to Brand This is like a shared co-working space when really you're storing people in water essentially closets after luring them in with these like seemingly high in perks, but it's also like a bag of beer in a trash can under counter. You work is a multi-billion dollar Corporation. That is fucking genius. How

3 (13m 40s):
does a billionaire like my son father of SoftBank? Look at this glorified real estate company and convince himself that he's got texts. Next big thing.

1 (13m 52s):
I think there are a lot of really really rich people that want to do something more than just make money. Once you become a billionaire. I feel like you can have everything in the world. Now if you want a private jet it's Or is if you want seven homes on every continent, it's yours. What's one thing that's really difficult to buy. It's a feeling of status that can only come from that sense that you change the world. There's a certain class of billionaire that wants to be behind projects that have world-changing potential and Masha. So now I think was one of those people he raised this 100 billion dollar fund not to make another hundred billion dollars exclusively.

1 (14m 37s):
I think but also to be able to tell himself and his local network and the conference's that he went to I'm behind the next Amazon and when you're a startup guy who spins a beautiful story about An international capitalist kibbutz that's going to unite the world around a new vision of work then. Yeah, maybe you can find a billionaire dumb smart enough to say go even bigger and here's ten billion

2 (15m 6s):
dollars to do it. We

3 (15m 17s):
work is a symptom of a much larger problem and that problem might make your life much more expensive really soon. That's in a minute. You know something I think should exist but doesn't is is like Newman's Own for everything else. Like you can go to the grocery store and get your Newman's on like vodka sauce and a part of the proceeds go to charity. But like why doesn't like a part of the Vodka that you get in the liquor store good a charity and why doesn't a part of the chewing gum You by go to charity.

3 (16m 2s):
I'd be way more inclined to buy those things when some of the Money was going to charity over like the regular things that I buy where none of the money goes to charity. I think there's like a bunch of startups that are trying to take that approach to like shoes and maybe glasses but how about we take that approach to everything y'all anyway, when you make the Vodka that as a charitable component go to mailchimp.com and use their all-in-one marketing platform. It's going to give you the tools you need to give your whole charitable vodka situation and I'm presence to keep your followers engaged and to give you more time to focus on making really great charitable vodka charitable vodka.

3 (16m 53s):
Derek I think I have a pretty good grasp on who Adam Newman is at this point and what he's about but tell me more about his sugar daddy billionaire the guy who's now in charge of we work

1 (17m 4s):
right? Yeah. So the daddy billionaires a guy named Masterson and he is the head of SoftBank, which is this huge Japanese conglomerate and several years ago. He raised this 100 billion dollar fund called The Vision fund with which she wanted to not only make A lot of money but also as he wants Put It Go Big Bang if the Big Bang sort of launched a new universe he wanted to launch the new 21st century with this investment. And so he backed companies like we work and Uber and door - that he thought might represent a new kind of urban experience in which our day-to-day lives were mediated by this Tech layer that we worked at a company that was kind of a tech company we work and we ordered food through something that Was kind of a tech company like door - and we moved around with companies that were connected to the internet whether it's lime or Uber and so we have to put a lot of money behind these companies that have a tech layer in them and can potentially sort of change the way that we live in ordinary

3 (18m 7s):
cities. How are these other companies doing door - Uber.

1 (18m 11s):
So imagine you wake up on a Casper mattress, and you work out in the Peloton before breakfast and you Uber to your desk at we work in order. - for lunch and take a lift home and get dinner through Postmates you have now interacted with seven companies that will collectively lose somewhere around 13 to 14 billion dollars this year. Let's see you come home after this experience and you pull out your phone and you play with Facebook and you scroll through Twitter and you scroll through Instagram you have now interacted there with two three companies that are fantastically profitable. But charge you zero dollars in exchange for their services, right?

1 (18m 55s):
So in the first half of the day that I described you're paying companies

3 (18m 59s):
right Uber door

1 (18m 60s):
- but they're not making any profit and in the second half the day I described you're paying these companies interacting with nothing but their fantastic be profitable and the weird big takeaway for me is that in a very strange a historical way the best business model the 21st century is not to charge people for stuff. And make a margin it's to build a product and charge people zero dollars and run a fantastic successful advertising

3 (19m 28s):
business. How is it company? That's as ubiquitous as Uber charging people money for rides all around the world losing money.

1 (19m 35s):
Every time you pay Uber $10 for a trip. Where is that money going? Well, some of that has to go to pick Uber employees. A lot of it has to go to pay the driver and a lot of it turns out has to go to pay for promotions and other forms of marketing to get more people to use Uber. Or because if you ever raise its prices just a bit too like $11 for that trip and you load up lift and see that lift is you know, a $9 ride exact same destination. There's no switching costs. You're just going to use lift. So both these companies have for years been using their investments in order to give people promotions and discounts. So what they're essentially doing is subsidizing their users right there essentially paying us a little bit of money in exchange for using their services, and I've called this the great Millennial Urban consumer subsidy that as you go about your day, all of these companies that we interact with to move about the city and live our lives are with every single interaction every single exchange paying us just a little bit of money in order to do so and the concern I think for consumers and also to a certain extent for these companies is what happens when the game is

3 (20m 44s):
up and when The Jig Is up will people just go back to the Yellow Cab and a grocery store and the restaurant down the

1 (20m 52s):
street. Yeah. It's interesting to think like is the last decade just going to be some fever dream of venture capitalists expenditure. Yeah, maybe I think it's more likely that the cost of every single little thing just goes up a little the reason that people use Uber and Lyft rather than a cab service isn't just that it's cheaper or at least is anticipated to be cheaper. It's also that it's arguably more. Because you can handle it from your phone and you can schedule it rather than having to walk in the street and raise your hand. These companies are a revolution inconvenience and that isn't something to be overlooked.

1 (21m 32s):
But they're also Revolution inconvenience that aren't viable at the prices that we're currently paying and so I think consumers should be ready to pay a little bit more for everything. There is a theme about the failed Investments of the last few years and it's that these companies that exist in the physical world that drive cars and move food and our real estate that when you try to put a tech layer within them you don't necessarily with a magic wand and turn them into a tech company that's be valued like a Google or Facebook. It doesn't work like that their feet are still stuck in the mud of the physical

2 (22m 10s):
world.

3 (22m 16s):
Derek Thompson is a staff writer at the Atlantic and he hosts a podcast that are called crazy genius. It's all about technology science and culture. I'm Shawn rhombus room.

2 (22m 26s):
This is a crazy genius podcast called today explained.

3 (22m 43s):
Before we go how we not figure it out diapers yet. Like you got the cloth diapers that are a mess or someone needs to come pick them up or you need to go drop them off or you just got to like put tons and tons and tons and tons of diapers in the trash. They say they're biodegradable. But about how long does that take once someone cracks the diaper problem hit up mailchimp.com. They got that all in one marketing platform to make your diaper business a great success. Good luck.