4 (12s):
On yesterday's show we talked about police unions and about how much power they wield and how that power has led to contracts that make it just about impossible to do much about police misconduct. It makes it next to impossible to even know how much misconduct a given officer has been accused of in a lot of cases and it makes it really hard to challenge how much money Police Department's get and they get a lot but throughout these protests were seeing people call for an ultimate fix to this one we Talk about on yesterday's show one. A lot of people would find totally radical abolish the police now don't stop listening and go scroll and find Joe Rogan just yet.

4 (55s):
If you're like abolish the police like who am I gonna call when someone is chasing me down the street trying to murder me consider Philip macarius

1 (1m 3s):
when I was young, you know, there was one incident when I was 17.

2 (1m 10s):
It was a nurse in Jersey. That was a cry. Edible

1 (1m 12s):
Target, you know on me with a gang that was very well known in the story is obviously the

2 (1m 20s):
call while running from almost being junked and my friend said, what did you do? And I was like, what do you mean? He said there's a Target on your head and someone that I knew that was a part of the game the next day who I was friends with

1 (1m 33s):
told me that it was a green light on me in that area.

2 (1m 37s):
And you know, it was a very scary situation and left me paranoid for

1 (1m 40s):
days.

2 (1m 42s):
and now one moment that I think of calling the police

1 (1m 48s):
because I never had perceived of the police as being in my favorite.

2 (1m 53s):
I'm a black person in

1 (1m 54s):
America. And so what I did was I called my cousin who is very well connected in the city and in the

4 (2m 2s):
neighborhood who knew

1 (2m 4s):
a leader in this other group

2 (2m 8s):
and he went and talked to them and they said oh, I didn't know that was your cousin, you know, tell him he's

1 (2m 13s):
fine. And now was it the egg and it didn't even cross my

2 (2m 18s):
mind to call the police. It wasn't even a thought that I had

1 (2m 21s):
because it I never conceived of the police's as an apparatus to keep me safe. And so what would it look like if we had someone like my cousin,

2 (2m 32s):
you know, and they have violence Interruption a lot of cities, but what would it look like if we gave those

1 (2m 37s):
programs a hundred million dollars a year as opposed to giving it to the police

4 (2m 41s):
Philip Mike Harris is a PhD candidate at Yale University. Versity who won't call the cops. Even when a gangs got a hit out on his head. He's also a police abolitionist. So is Brandon has Brooke.

2 (2m 54s):
I'm an assistant professor of law at Washington and Lee University School of

4 (2m 57s):
Law. I asked Brandon to explain what this radical idea abolished the police really means

1 (3m 4s):
just to clarify. I think it sounds radical to certain communities mostly the white Community. I

2 (3m 9s):
don't think it's a radical idea to communities

1 (3m 11s):
of color when I say abolish policing. I mean abolished modern policing that was burned and nurtured by white supremacy to sustain and perpetuate racial hierarchy blessed by the Constitution itself that is essentially control of the blackbody

4 (3m 32s):
Walk us through the link between white supremacy slavery and police

1 (3m 37s):
the history of policing it has races

3 (3m 40s):
roots.

1 (3m 45s):
The policing in the South developed as slave patrols and essentially these slave patrols had significant and unfettered power within their communities that were derived from Slave Code.

2 (3m 59s):
So the slave patrols had the authority

1 (4m 1s):
under these codes to forcefully enter homes to look for criminal activity or just because they put in an order or something similar the North Please think develop normally and 1830s and during that time period policing was created to control free blacks even after slavery was formally abolished even then police were the masters of Ceremonies of Jim Crow. And

2 (4m 32s):
essentially there were these Black Codes created bandys criminal laws that applied only to

1 (4m 36s):
black people and we're tended to control the black body and please will essentially her eyes wax during this period 10 Force ratio of subjugation. These Black Codes were deliberately crafted the returning the laksa slavery under a different name convict leasing during that time period of Jim Crow police develop chorus of techniques to get innocent blacks to confess to crimes they did not commit. That's Jim Crow and how is happening all the way until essentially the Civil Rights Act and

2 (5m 7s):
the Civil Rights Act is a challenge to all of us to go to work. In our communities and our state's in our homes and in our hearts. To eliminate the last vestiges of Injustice

1 (5m 21s):
and the Civil Rights Act of 64, which formally ended Jim Crow it ushered in a different error. Which Michelle Alexander called the new Jim Crow

2 (5m 31s):
America's Public Enemy Number One in the United States is drug abuse drugs are menacing our society. There are threatening our values and undercutting our institutions of all the consequences of drug use and abuse. None is more Destructive and apparent than its impact on crime and simultaneously why this is all going on.

1 (5m 53s):
Right? We see the rise of certain District Court issuing decisions that essentially gave police what some called super powers right ability to stop and frisk. They conduct pretextual stops use excessive force. And also it gives police qualified immunity. This is all happening simultaneously in this. Sleep Edge weights who on black

3 (6m 18s):
violence?

4 (6m 23s):
So we're hearing lots of calls to abolish the police right now. But how long have you been calling to get rid of police departments to get rid of this sort of history of white supremacy in law enforcement. It's not new right?

1 (6m 38s):
It's not so abolition democracy has his roots both Malcolm X James

4 (6m 45s):
Baldwin Angela Davis

1 (6m 49s):
Paul Butler, you've heard it for years and hip hop music.

2 (6m 53s):
cesare coming in

1 (6m 54s):
five four point three point two point one

2 (6m 59s):
point It's the mother fucking

4 (7m 24s):
on the devil put the pedal to the

2 (7m 29s):
floor. When you have these

1 (7m 41s):
extraordinary events where black bodies are murdered you hear these conversations Ferguson was a huge event and Michael Denzel Smith wrote a piece right after Ferguson highlighting abolishing police and we just had like

4 (7m 56s):
three of these extraordinary events in a row sure. So I was just I just participated in a

1 (8m 3s):
peaceful protest yesterday. Or my family including my daughters and you see it on the streets and this was a small town in Southwest Virginia Lexington were Washington and leave located and you see signs abolish the police and the momentum and all these protests for us to really truly examine what went wrong and policing. It's not an all-time high and people want answers people demanding answers people are understanding it's not about you know, these lone wolves going out. And committed his crime. No, it's something more systemic. It's a culmination for many people right when you see it you have eyes on it when you have the media focused on it, right?

1 (8m 47s):
That means something that causes certain reaction. It's not reaction in the black and brown communities. We've already felt that right. It's now the white Community seeing in on TV same thing with the during the marches for civil rights when you see what's going on in TV that makes Profound impact with certain communities thickly can be white

4 (9m 8s):
community. So what do white communities and any others who aren't in the know need to know about abolishing the police?

1 (9m 17s):
I think it's a great time of people to listen to hear the ideas to understand what that means. It's not that we are not going to exist. I know that that causes some fear, you know that they may be sexually assaulted in there's no police. To help them or they may be burglarize or Rob and there's no police. That's not what I'm talking about. When I say abolish the

3 (9m 42s):
police

4 (9m 51s):
Brandon explains what exactly he and everyone else means by abolish the police after the break. I'm Sean Rama's for him. It's today explained. Support for the show today and I can't believe I'm saying this it's been so long comes from quip the electric toothbrush company quip remember them because even though you're on quarantine or in my case quarantine and curfew you still need to brush your teeth. Right? Right, because I don't know you're not going to the dentist probably anymore. Quit quite conveniently delivers all the Oral Care Essentials.

4 (10m 33s):
You need to brush and floss better right to your door. Dentist recommended schedule of every three months you get the quip brush heads the toothpaste the floss refills for just 5 bucks. Each and shipping is free. You can join over 3 million happy smiling customers and practice good Oral Care easily and affordably go to get quipped.com explain right now and you'll get your first refills for free. That's your first refill for free at get quipped.com explained get Q UI p.com. Mom

1 (11m 7s):
/ explained

2 (11m 16s):
Hey, this is reclined host of the Ezra Klein show on the box media podcast Network. My guest this week is pain aha see codes. We have a discussion that is more hopeful than I expected but also gets to something pretty deep. What if we stopped thinking about non-violence as something

1 (11m 30s):
that only protesters and the powerless needed to live up to what if it was a core value

2 (11m 35s):
of the state itself would have the very people preaching it had to actually follow. What would that look like? You makes this point that I think is just great

4 (11m 43s):
the

2 (11m 43s):
Who

4 (11m 43s):
are called on to be nonviolent other people with the least amount of guns and the ability to do the least amount of

2 (11m 48s):
damage, whereas we don't, you know call upon that you also those who have the most power and actually can do the most

1 (11m 54s):
damage. You can hear a whole conversation by subscribing to the Ezra Klein show wherever you get your

4 (11m 59s):
podcasts. Okay, Brandon to what does abolishing the police look like one

1 (12m 11s):
band discriminatory policing practices such as stop-and-frisk another would be and qualified immunity. We know when police violate black people's constitutional rights to excessive force for an example. They kill a black person oftentimes are not charged with criminal activity. They raised some sort of Specter of I thought they were reaching for a knife or a gun and they are get off and they're never charged. Anything for that let these people be sued civilly and they should Faith exposure. Another would be we should disarmed Lisa military weapons and we should also end Army forsman of traffic and quality-of-life violations.

1 (12m 51s):
We saw this play out a little bit in the HBO series The Watchmen and not to spoil anything, so I'm not going to but essentially during the traffic routine. The gun is locked in the lot on the government since she's controlling. Rolled by some body of overseers

2 (13m 8s):
released my weapon. Hi. Hi. Hi, just buzz me. Okay. Another would be something as simple as establishing separate

1 (13m 35s):
emergency response mechanism from police for mental health incidents. We should be having Mental Health Counselors there with those incidents about Louise who are not trained to do so, we also should be talking about proving reparations for past police Terror implicit bias sensitivity and D escalation training that should be made mandatory and something I think some folks are talking about now is there should be a development. Aunt of a data system that accurately track race in police contacts including for example, traffic stops citations searches Warth use of force and killings and arrest in all of that and tracking all the information we should also know who are the officers involved is often times these offices get fired from one jurisdiction and it's higher than another for these violations of black people's

4 (14m 29s):
rights. It's interesting, you know. I think when people hear abolish the police, it's sort of like they can't take the ideas seriously because well that's just a ridiculous idea. But when I hear what you have in mind when you say abolish the police, it sounds more like rethink the police rethink how we protect people and keep people safe.

1 (14m 55s):
Yeah. That's exactly right. What is pleasing and how should we sing be uses those fundamental first questions? That I'm getting at when I say abolish racially discriminatory policing and I think legislators both local state and federal level should be thinking about these measures and they have the ability and power to implement them.

4 (15m 15s):
How is abolish the police or rethink, you know protecting people different from reform or increased accountability

1 (15m 25s):
is sure so we've seen some of these reforms play out and we're not seeing any changes. In terms of police violence against black people for example, there?s been community policing reform and which this idea that we should be we should have police be more representative of the population that they're policing and we're still seeing evidence to suggest that police violence continues under those reform measures. So it needs to be something else that changes this ongoing racial terror-byte.

4 (16m 2s):
police And for the people who are worried about how this you know how this might affect the way our society functions. Like let's just say, you know, it's a Friday night Fourth of July or something like that like like the Fourth of July that's coming up real soon. And you know, you're worried about drunk drivers on the road who's getting your back on drunk drivers.

1 (16m 26s):
I'm going to be able to call the police. The police are still going to be are enforcing traffic violations. Maybe not with weapons though. Maybe they have some other tools the deescalate situations

4 (16m 38s):
and what about like you're scared that this jilted ex lover of yours is going to come after you and kill you same situation,

1 (16m 45s):
you know, we continue to go through

2 (16m 46s):
these hypotheticals, but I want to be very clear here. Please don't listen to black women

1 (16m 50s):
as it exists a black woman are often the victim. Actual thoughts sexual violence and they are not listening to the not the incredible by police officers. So we got to ask yourself is policing working. Maybe it's working for certain communities. Why communities in particular now police are going to be there when you call and say hey, look there's someone harassing me you're still going to have the better trained police officer come and defuse the situation if the perpetrator is still there.

4 (17m 24s):
Has anyone tried this it doesn't sound like an experiment that's been conducted in the United States, but maybe it has but I mean when you talk about rethinking how we are feeling safe as a society, I think about like the UK and how you know, your classic UK police officer in in say London doesn't even have a gun. They've got a baton and perhaps a whistle and a way to call for backup. Yeah.

1 (17m 54s):
No, that's right.

2 (17m 56s):
Abolition is not going to make

1 (17m 57s):
us less safe. It's going to make people more safe, especially people of color and in each country. If you go to other countries, they develop policing develop differently and I America is really unique in them and a lot of respects if you really Trace leasing it was it continues to be birth and nurtured by white supremacy and and there needs to be a racial Justice intervention.

4 (18m 22s):
What is this city look like in a world where? Where the police have been abolished what is the vision?

1 (18m 31s):
It looks more equal. It looks more safe. It looks more just it looks more hopeful

4 (18m 41s):
it looks

3 (18m 43s):
like

1 (18m 44s):
parents like mine

2 (18m 46s):
don't have to give their children to

1 (18m 48s):
talk. It looks like

2 (18m 51s):
I could go outside and my own home, you know my own

1 (18m 54s):
grass and not be viewed with suspicion that I'm dangerous. It's a world. Where I could walk down the street the black man and police. Don't follow me or please don't pull me over just to D humanize me which has been done. It's a world where we are

3 (19m 17s):
free

1 (19m 23s):
Brandon. Thank you so much for your time.

2 (19m 25s):
I appreciate you guys so much. Thank you so much. All

3 (19m 27s):
right.