3 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from brains on it's a kid's podcast from American public media that the adults might enjoy to each week your host. Molly Bloom is joined by a different kid co-host to find answers to fascinating questions. Like can you dig a hole to the center of the earth? I don't think so do plants have feelings. I mean kinda and why do we li you can listen to brains? zom review listen to podcasts the federal government has blocked access to abortion for people with low incomes for over 40 years through the Hyde Amendment enough is enough Joe Biden pledge to an ACLU volunteer that he'd end the Hyde Amendment and if elected we need him to follow through on that pledge by didn't can lead on reproductive Freedom by removing bands on coverage in his first budget and refusing to sign bills with hide restrictions the time to end hide is now all paid for by American civil liberties Union Inc rights for all dot-org The Republican National Convention begins today apparently to Apprentice producers have been tapped to help run the show and President Trump will be speaking every night, which means it might have a bit of a trump rally Vibe.

3 (1m 32s):
But without as many, you know, die-hard Trump fans in the crowd obviously and if you've watched footage from those Before Time Trump rallies, you may have noticed some of those I hards hoisting some strange signs signs with messages about q q is shorthand for queuing on it's a political conspiracy theory for people who like their conspiracy theories with a little side of Bonkers. Now, if you're not familiar with q and on here's a quick crash course, according to the Anti-Defamation League q1 on followers quote believe World governments are being controlled by a shadowy cabal of pedophiles who will eventually be brought to Justice by President Trump most far out of these beliefs say that celebrities and political Elites actually Farm children

1 (2m 18s):
underground caves so that they can

3 (2m 20s):
drink blood which supposedly staves off ages. Really. The only rule is that Donald Trump is the only good guy. He is here to go save the world from the Satanic cannibals. It's been festering online for a few years now, but in 2020 where bad things come to Blossom q and on appears to be gaining a foothold in the Republican Party Zack peacham, you've been following q and on for Vox, why is it getting less Anon all of a sudden? Well, there are two reasons. The first one is that a woman with a very long record of supporting qn on named Marjorie Taylor green a business woman in Georgia one a Republican primary in like an extremely safe Republican seat and August.

3 (3m 5s):
So basically what that means is somebody with this extensive track record of saying q and on stuff is Is almost certainly going to Congress the second reason is that on Wednesday President Trump at a press conference refused to disavow the Q and on conspiracy theory when asked

1 (3m 26s):
during the pandemic the queue and on movement has been appears to be gaining a lot of followers. Can you talk about what you think about that and what you have to say to the people who are following this movement right now? Well, I don't know much about the movement other than I understand they like me very much. Which I appreciate but now that was a

3 (3m 46s):
predictable result of the way. The reporter asked the question which was not great. But also and more fundamentally. This is the president praising a conspiracy theory that has been linked to violence like murder actual murder and other federal

1 (4m 1s):
crimes last year the FBI labeled a movement a potential domestic Terror threat I've heard these are people that love our country and they just don't like seeing it so I don't know really anything. Thing about it other than they do supposedly like me the

3 (4m 17s):
president knots denouncing them or not saying anything that would be like look these people are really really out. There is given the specific nature of this conspiracy theory, which is basically oriented around Donald Trump secretly being the savior of the world and secretly doing all these things. They think he's doing I mean, this is so likely to add fuel to this particular fire and so likely Courage q and on supporters that I it's breathtakingly irresponsible on the president's part was this the first time the president really addressed this conspiracy or that it reached the platform that high. Yeah, I mean press secretaries have been asked about it before but this is the first time that he's been this direct about q and on and it's certainly the the closest the president has come to giving tacit endorsement to a conspiracy theory that claims that Hillary Clinton eats children, which is Is a think you and honors actually belief not

1 (5m 15s):
exaggerated Hillary. I think about children Hillary Clinton has personally murdered chopped up great zero fear standing up against tell me more

3 (5m 34s):
about this potential Congress member who's a member of the queue tribe so Marjorie, Killer green is her name. She lives in Georgia where she has owned a construction business with her husband since 2002. I would you like a normal in the small business person profile for somebody running for congress, but this is a woman who built her public profile by in no uncertain terms propagating the queue and on conspiracy

1 (6m 1s):
theory Q is a patriot. He is someone that is very much loves this country and he's on the same page as us and he is very

3 (6m 10s):
pro-trump. She released. A Whole 30 minute video about her belief in Q and on all the things that she found persuasive in it.

1 (6m 17s):
Now, there's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to take this Global cable of Satan worshipping pedophiles out and I think we have the president to do it. And so I'm very excited about

3 (6m 29s):
that. She had a now-defunct website that posted pro-q non-content in a September 3rd 2018 post from merger Taylor green for congress. She talked about how Q the key figure in You and on was warning a false flags and then speculated that demon possession or military-grade intelligence developed weapons, like voice of God technology were being used to manipulate the School shooters into the false Flags. Like it's real wild stuff. She says awful things about

1 (6m 60s):
Muslims. We have an Islamic Invasion into our government

3 (7m 3s):
offices proposed anti-semitic conspiracy theories

1 (7m 9s):
George Soros, even when they want to call me and in

3 (7m 12s):
time, Tonight she made an ad publish it on her Facebook page where she in more or less. No uncertain terms threatened violence against any antifa members that visited her area of Georgia

1 (7m 23s):
President Trump declared antifa domestic terrorist

3 (7m 26s):
organization. She was holding a gun during this

1 (7m 29s):
video. I have a message for antifa terrorist. She cocked the gun during the video. It's pretty clear. Stay the hell out of Northwest Georgia. You won't burn our churches loot our businesses or destroy our homes. Marjorie green and I approve this message

3 (7m 45s):
and the video is suspended from Facebook on grounds that it violated their terms of service which prohibit threats against specific groups even setting the queuing on stuff aside. Taylor green is is a really extreme Republican candidate even by Republican standards, but the queue and on stuff takes it to a whole new level. We should be clear though that a lot of Georgians who supported her in the primary knew exactly what she stood for and Ooh exactly. What kind of tie she had to this conspiracy theory? Yeah, I don't think that's a stretch. Yes. There's a reason why she was able to out raised and out-compete another Conservative Republican who build himself in the primary is conservative, but not crazy.

3 (8m 30s):
And when after her for this the sort of notary and the links to Q naught and XI 1 pretty decisively and she hasn't said anything like this since she won the No, I don't believe she said anything that pro-q and on since winning the primary. I think she's trying to mainstream herself a little bit. But she you know, she is being accepted by the Republican party and is gonna have seats on committees and stuff like that based on what we're hearing right now from the house Republican leadership. So she needs to play by their rules a little bit the extent to which she will succeed in doing that. Like I said, I really am skeptical did Trump react to greens with And if you have anything to say about it, yeah Trump is a big Marjorie Taylor green fan

1 (9m 16s):
President Trump tweeting. Congratulations today to q and on conspiracy theorist Marjorie Taylor green the president calling green and quote future Republican star and a real winner.

3 (9m 25s):
Is there a chance of other que non candidates might pop up for this 2020 election or is she the only one? Yeah by some counts. There are up to 20 people who be appearing on the ballot November who are q and non-believers or sympathizers.

1 (9m 43s):
Honestly everything that I've heard as Q at I hope that I hope that this is real some congressional candidates like Lauren bow Burton, Colorado promoted The Conspiracy Theory to Friendly media Outlets before later calling q and on fake news other candidates like Republican Joe Ray Perkins who's running for the US senate seat in

3 (10m 2s):
Oregon have come out as true

4 (10m 4s):
supporters.

3 (10m 7s):
This is a conspiracy theory that grew out of absolute faith and Donald Trump. It is deeply linked to Republican partisanship and and really specifically support for Donald Trump and can't be untethered

4 (10m 20s):
from that

3 (10m 32s):
after the break the origins of Q

4 (10m 34s):
and I

3 (10m 49s):
Support for the show today comes from the quip electric toothbrush, you know brushing your teeth is more important than ever because it's gosh darn it. It's one of the few things we can really control in our lives these days. I am I right quip wants to make it easy for you. They've got a smart brush for adults and for kids and it even can connect to a quip app. If you've got the Bluetooth so you can track when and how well you brush. I mean if you're looking for something to do Because you're like at home not working as much not leaving the house as much why not just track your tooth brushing and you know refills are kind of easy. They come to your house every three months for like five bucks.

3 (11m 31s):
And right now if you go to get quipped.com explained your first pack of refills is totally free. That's your first refill free at get clipped.com explains G ET Q UI p.com explained The federal government has blocked access to abortion for people with low incomes for over 40 years through the Hyde Amendment a ban on abortion coverage that hurts people enrolled in Medicaid and other insurance programs enough is enough Joe Biden pledge to an ACLU volunteer that he'd end the Hyde Amendment and if elected we need him to follow through on that pledge the polls show Biden ahead of trump with almost a 20-point lead with women the message on reproductive freedom.

3 (12m 21s):
Is clear and Joe Biden has an opportunity to lead by removing bands on coverage in his first budget and refusing to sign bills with hide restrictions. The time to end hide is now paid for by American civil liberties Union Inc rights for all dot-org. Zack who is cute. You know if I knew I would be putting that on vox.com right now Q originally was an anonymous poster on 4chan where everyone is anonymous 4chan if you're not familiar with it is like a real internet Cesspool.

3 (13m 1s):
That is Loosely Affiliated maybe even strongly philia depending on who you talk to with the alt-right. They have actually threatened me before her so I know what it's like But he was opposed to run fortune and posters and fortunes are called a non. So queuing on is that's how the name of the movement began, huh? So you would know it was Q because they would sign their messages with a dash Q at the very end of them now Q is generally taken to refer to a level of classification in the US government Q level classification is a very high level of access to government information. So the implication by this person signing q and Going to have inside information about what's going on inside the government and about this sort of secret behind the scenes stuff.

3 (13m 50s):
Is that Q is a government employee. Someone very very high up who knows things that Ordinary People don't and is now leaving little breadcrumbs, which is what q and on supporters call his messages and they always say his so we'll assume for this conversation that he's a he though. We have no idea who Q actually is and they'll read these sort of cryptic messages written. Q and read a lot into them and use them to to build out. What is an almost feel logical view of how politics works. And what is the Theology of Q? Oh boy. We're really gonna do it now Sean. I think we should start with pizza gate know about pizza gate Pizza gate started on the internet shortly before election day when right-wing sites that make up fake news spread rumors that Hillary Clinton was involved in a child sex trafficking ring in DC out of a restaurant in DC called Comet Ping Pong a delightful restaurant other than this Pizza

1 (14m 48s):
Capers. Yeah. Yeah. I used to go there and play ping pong with my

3 (14m 52s):
niece and nephew and so I would not be taking them to a place that had pedophilia and that When it does not 28 year old Edgar Welch fired

1 (15m 1s):
at least one round into the restaurant floor with an AR-15

3 (15m 4s):
rifle like this one after police arrived Welch surrendered

1 (15m 8s):
peacefully saying that he was trying to rescue the children. He was sure were

3 (15m 12s):
hidden inside. He faces charges including assault with a deadly weapon. So is this some sort of like foundational moment for Q and on yeah, I think a lot of cues description of the world. It came out of the pizza gate conspiracy theory namely the idea that Democratic party Elites are involved in a Secret Ring of pedophilia and child trafficking and that this is something that Donald Trump is trying to

1 (15m 43s):
expose you are secretly saving the world from this Titanic cold pedophiles and cannibals. Does that sound like something you are behind or I haven't I've haven't heard that. Is that supposed to be a bad thing or a good thing going on is a fantasy of

3 (16m 4s):
trump power and Trump goodness. You're trying to make sense out of the chaos of the Trump presidency. If you're a hardcore Trump supporter, if you really believe that he's somebody who is working to save America and make it great again. And so you've developed this demonized portrayal of your opponents in some ways. It's a really natural outgrowth of one of the primary motivating forces in American politics, which political scientist called negative. Of partisanship, you know you support your party because you hate the opposing party not necessarily because you loved everything that your party stands for and so you think of Democrats not just as your political opponents, but if you're a republican, but it's fundamentally illegitimate threats to the nation q and on takes it one step further and says, they're not just illegitimate political opponents their actual sex criminals and murderers and then they marry this with a very trumpy Cult of Personality.

3 (16m 59s):
But just thinking about the origins of QA on in some 4chan Message Board some guy posting under the name q' it just sounds like this could have easily just been a bad joke that is like spiraled wildly out of control. Yeah, it's entirely possible that that's what happened. We're all pretty certain. The queue is not some high up figure at the Trump Administration or US Government, but Q could be anyone. Right. It could be just some random person who thought it would be funny to start pretending that they were a member of the Trump Administration. This actually was a fairly common thing on 4chan and then they you know, it stopped being funny when cute on her started killing people and right there is one q and honor who thought there's a Mafia Boss who is in on us and so he went and killed him went to his house and killed

1 (17m 49s):
him 24 year old Anthony. Comello is behind bars right now for the shooting death of Francesco, Frankie boy Callie the reputed Also that can be no crime family and

3 (17m 59s):
authorities. This is a March 2019. And there's another person who derailed a train in California as part of what seems like the queue and on thing or either examples. Those are ones we know about does it have any mainstream traction outside of President Trump sort of Quasi endorsement last week. It depends on how you Define mainstream. Right? Like you've gotten some validation from the Trump children Eric Trump and specifically posted a Q and on Meme on his Instagram page, you've got some right-wing celebrities people like Curt Schilling the former Red Sox pitcher who has become a far-right political figure and is an avowed queuing on supporter.

3 (18m 42s):
And then you have Roseanne Barr who has also promoted the same thing. But like it's been that kind of person. What about people like in the media? Is this a Fox News approved conspiracy? It's not really a Fox News thing. You know it. Like this is something that is to fringy even for Fox but florist really on alternative right-wing media and social media. I mean as the Republican National Convention kicks off, is there a way for the party to distance himself from these sort of Fringe conspiracy theorists when the dude in charge is sort of welcoming them into the into the tent. I mean individual Republicans can do what they want, but it's difficult to break with Trump on issues like this when he sets the tone because he'll condemn you in a tweet.

3 (19m 27s):
If you do anything that seems like it is condemning something that Trump has done or cry or even mildly criticizing it and they're probably not going to want to do that. What's to be done. Then I mean this isn't the Tea Party. These are violent conspiracy theorists who have actually killed a person who have gone to a family restaurant with weapons. I mean, what you need is to cut them off at their Source where they really flourish and that's social media, right? This is a conspiracy. Theory that has done its best recruiting work on Facebook where there have been hundreds of different q and on groups with millions of followers in total and Facebook has just finally belatedly started cracking down on these groups Facebook band about 2,000 groups pushing the queue and on conspiracy theory accusing them of promoting violence and leading to Crime.

3 (20m 19s):
So Facebook took action last week. Is it too late has this already gone too far? I mean, we're on the cusp of having our first first elected representative in Congress with QA on ties. Yes. She's almost certainly going to Congress but these ideas are so closely tied to Donald Trump that it's unclear to me how they evolved in a world where he's not president. It could be that if Joe Biden wins the queue and on just sort of disappears because you don't need something that mentally reconciles you to the chaos of a trump Administration and you your energy as a

1 (20m 56s):
Hardcore

3 (20m 58s):
base Republican goes towards opposing Joe Biden and developing horrible things to do and say and think about him. My guess is even if q and on disappears be style of demonization of the opposition that it represents is not going away. We're here to take the country back. We're not we're not playing around if Joe Biden wins, I'm scared for America because I believe that queuing on will have something to say about it and we are large we are strong and where we go one we go all

4 (21m 33s):
Zack peacham, he's a

3 (21m 35s):
senior correspondent at vaux and one of the hosts of our worldly podcast. I'm Shawn Rama's from this one's today explained the team includes Bridget McCarthy a theme Shapiro Gillian Weinberger Halima Shaman al-saadi mu JT and no MM hassenfeld who make some music to the mysterious brake master cylinder makes even more Bob Cecilia lays. Our fact Checker and Liz Kelly Nelson is the editorial director of box podcast today explained is part. of the VOX media podcast Network check out Quimby's daily news coverage on the

1 (22m 21s):
app today with Partners like Vox CBS News, the BBC and VC and Telemundo, you'll get new content and fresh perspectives everyday quippy news shows fast facts fresh perspectives every day. That's q u IB I download the quippy up now and get

3 (22m 41s):
a two week free trial.

1 (22m 45s):
Hi. My name is Martha. I'm a producer inbox. I recently got my first ever pair of all Burns their treat Asher's the world's first performance running shoe made from premium natural materials. I don't know about y'all but going for runs and walks. It's been the key to keeping myself afloat these days. So I was really excited when I took my all birds out for a spin and they felt great on my feet and kept me cool on a run here in Houston, Texas, which is nothing short of amazing, but the best part about my new all birds is that they're comfortable and carbon neutral thanks to sustainable practices like offset in carbon emissions. Missions and I know that because all birds measures the carbon footprint of all of its products and listed on every pair of shoes socks and undies that tells you things like the energy consumption of assembly factories and the amount of energy it takes to run your shoes from the wash because yes, there are machine washable amazing.

1 (23m 36s):
All birds knows that you can't reduce your footprint until you know, what it is. That's why they've committed to lowering their impact over time so they can leave a better kind of footprint with all birds feel confident knowing you're wearing a That's doing right by your feet and the planet learn more about their sustainable practices and find your pair at all birds.com.