0 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from a show that's actually made from Vox creative. It's in collaboration with Ben and Jerry's you'll know them from the ice cream. It's not about ice cream. It's about their commitment to activism. Be it voting rights or climate justice. The show is called into the mix and your host, Ashley C. Ford sits down with artists, activists like Fabiano Rodriguez and Grammy winning musician and activist. John legend, to talk about how to use creativity as a tool for change and how to find joy along the road towards justice. Check out into the mix wherever you listen into the mix launches February 23rd,

2 (46s):
Bitcoin Ethereum Solana. While it might seem that everyone's going crazy over crypto, there are other investors who are pouring millions into an asset. That's outpaced the S and P 500 by 164% for 25 years. Blue chip works of art with masterworks. You can invest in masterpieces by icons like Monet, Picasso, and Banksy for a fraction of the original cost. Join over 300,000 members at masterworks.art/fox that's masterworks.art/fox. See important disclosures at masterworks.io/disclaimer.

3 (1m 39s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king.

4 (1m 43s):
My name is Alexa <em></em> and I'm the investigative editor at Medusa

3 (1m 47s):
Medusa. Am I pronouncing that right? Is Medusa, is your organization referring to this as a special operation? No. Vladimir Putin has ordered Russian media to call the war in Ukraine. A special operation. Medusa is one of the few independent news websites in Russia. And Alexi talked to me from inside of his home, which is where he is now based because he could be arrested for not following that directive

4 (2m 13s):
Journalists, even with a full proper accreditation and being arrested and subjected to violence by the police.

3 (2m 20s):
Vladimir Putin says there is broad public support for his invasion of Ukraine. Is that what

4 (2m 27s):
I'm seeing? Quite quite the opposite thing. If there is a massive public support, there are no visual clues as to whether it actually is. There are no patriotic outbursts associated with the annexation of Crimea, which was quite visible.

3 (2m 44s):
What you're not seeing is any visual evidence of people who support the war. Are you seeing visual evidence that people are against this war?

4 (2m 52s):
Yes, definitely. There are people protesting right now across Russia and they have been doing so for days, Despite the very real risk of arrest and detention and violence by the police. And I think at, at this moment, the latest figure is 6,000 people arrested

3 (3m 18s):
6,000 people arrested. What do the protests look like? What are people doing? And saying,

4 (3m 24s):
For example, people laying flowers to on this tomb of the unknown soldier and you know, the Kremlin and right next to it is, is a row of Stellaris with, with a so-called hero cities. One of which is key. If this is the highest honor bestowed in a city that went through a brutal siege in the second world war and Keefe was one of those places and people that are expensing solidarity with Ukrainians by laying flowers to the stellar. But most of the time people would just, you know, coming to the town square, some major thoroughfare, like in Mo in Moscow, that

6 (4m 7s):
These minutes has another person being dragged out of the subway here by his face, being dragged by the police being arrested, trussed up against the vehicle. We're seeing dozens of people being arrested here over the last 45 minutes. Now

4 (4m 22s):
A lot just doesn't really have time to happen. And people are just immediately whisked away into police vans and carried away. But there have been some significant crowds, probably the biggest antiwar demo I've seen since 1999 was in St. Petersburg,

3 (4m 41s):
Who is arresting people at these protests.

4 (4m 43s):
You know, we have many different kinds of police. And when you're walking through downtown Moscow, their presence is very visible. There are police vans everywhere you go, especially in central streets and squares. And whenever there is a, even a lone protestor with a placard that says no to war a attracts immediate attention, and that's basically inviting violence. And so there isn't really much you can do, but people are so desperate that they're keep coming out. Regardless.

3 (5m 15s):
Alexi, has there been violence aside from people being arrested? Has the, has the Russian government cracked down on these protests in any way?

4 (5m 25s):
Well, in many different ways, I mean, people have lost their jobs for speaking out against the war. And there were reports that, you know, students are receiving emails from their superiors, demanding that they take down on the anti-war posts on their social media and, and even people who put up a small, no to war sign in their, in their residential neighborhoods. And I'm, I'm seeing gravity or not on the walls that are being scrubbed down. As I walk past them by, you know, community services

3 (6m 5s):
Seems like the Russian government's response is to at every turn, try to keep these protests from happening.

4 (6m 13s):
Yes, because it insists that it, and it actually demands that this is not war. You know, all the state media are prohibited from calling it war. And now even the censorship ministry is demanding from the last few remaining independent media like ours. We don't refer to this as war it's. It's a quote, special operation unquote. And if you do refer to it by any other name, you're just inviting censorship. That's what's happening. If you new south let's and different websites that are writing commentary contrary to the demands of the censorship ministry being shut down and blocked in Russia.

3 (6m 54s):
I know that in the United States, anyway, when there, when the United States is involved in a war, celebrities and cultural figures will often come out and express how patriotic they are. I wonder if you're seeing that at all in Russia, are there famous Russians, pop stars, movie stars who are taking the Kremlin's line and saying, Russia should stay United. We have to be patriotic, or are they descending to

4 (7m 19s):
Yes, of course there are a few kind of super patriotic pop stars and film stars, but they are greatly outnumbered now because most other famous bloggers musicians like nationally recognized nationally famous people, journalists, artists, you name it's basically every major cultural and scientific figure has spoken out, out against the war.

8 (8m 0s):
What happened today is something that could not, and should not have happened. Ever. I plead you to stop military hostilities and start negotiations

3 (8m 11s):
Who is Valerie Malaysia.

4 (8m 13s):
Yeah. Yes. But anyway, lots of these is a famous Cooney. He's one of the most beloved pop singers in Russia. You know, if you lost <em></em> you basically lost millions of his fans.

3 (8m 42s):
Are there many Russians who support Putin and support this war?

4 (8m 46s):
Well, let's, I'm going to, these are two different questions and of course, yes, of course puttin does enjoy, or at least did until February 24, because they haven't been any more recent polls done after the beginning of beginning of the war. So we cannot really say how much support put on still enjoys, especially as people are, you know, people who have never been interested in politics and more like mostly passive supporters because people really don't know. And anyone else, especially if you're not interested in politics, you're not following news.

4 (9m 28s):
And you're only ever seeing letting reporting than TV. So whenever a pollster calls you and asking you, if you support him, you just, you just shrug and say, well, I guess, and, but I expect a lot more people. Yeah. I expect a lot more people in that category to wake up to the existential threats that we're putting this to them and to the rest of the world, because well, few, a few brave people actually tried to warn us. And, and, and the rest of the world,

9 (10m 3s):
I began for Russian opposition leader, Alexei, Navalny.

10 (10m 8s):
I'm not afraid of the decision of the court. Russia's federal security service, the prosecutor's office or anyone else I'm not afraid because I consider it humiliating to be afraid of all this.

3 (10m 19s):
One of the ways in which the United States and Europe are trying to put pressure on Russia is by instituting economic sanctions. Are you witnessing in Moscow? Anything in the vein of bank runs or empty grocery store shelves, anything that might indicate economic pain, which the us believes will help turn Russians against Putin and against this war?

4 (10m 40s):
Well, my own salary has just devalued by, in, into, and that's the, even before the Moscow stock exchange opened devalued by half. Yeah. Oh yeah. And yeah, there's, there are bankrupts everywhere. I mean, you you'll have to stay stand in line to near to the nearest ATM for two and three hours. If you're lucky enough, you'll get some cash, but no currency. There's a, you know, you can get any foreign currency anymore in, in Moscow or elsewhere. So yeah, it's, it's, it's terrible. It's gotta be the, the sharpest economic downturn that we've seen since probably 1998, when we had the lusts major recession, obviously no matter, regardless of our position or attitude to this war, we're all gonna suffer terribly.

4 (11m 28s):
And especially the millions of Russian Russians below the poverty line. I mean, it's going to be catastrophe. People like people are going to get hungry and you know, the physical and mental health will decline for millions of people.

3 (11m 48s):
I want to ask you about the risk that people are taking. Anytime people protest Russia, it is an immense risk. They can be arrested, they can be disappeared, they can be detained. They can lose their jobs. As you said, thousands of people are taking that chance. Now, what do you think has changed?

4 (12m 9s):
I don't think there is a single family in Russia that doesn't have relatives or friends or colleagues or whatever other personal ties you can have with a neighboring nation. And when you looking at these videos, I'm looking at those videos of a major beautiful CTO of <em></em> being indiscriminately bombed with, I know multiple rocket launches, which is, you know, a war crime by any means. When you're looking at those tick-tock videos with people are recording those incoming rockets. They all are swearing in Russian because it's as much as their, my mother's language is it is mine.

4 (12m 55s):
So it's a, so it's indescribable, indescribable. Trategy can tell you when I'm looking at those videos of, you know, bombs and shells falling on Ukrainian cities. I see Moscow because they look exactly the same, like Moscow, you know, all those identical rows of, you know, tower residential tower blocks arranged in the same, you know, centrally planned patterns as Moscow, any other major Russian city. And I have friends there, friends, you know, cowering in, in bomb shelters. So it's there isn't, there was no possible way to justify this.

3 (13m 33s):
Do you think these protests are going to continue?

4 (13m 35s):
Yes, absolutely. And since the, the, you know, reality of what is happening is already dawning on people who aren't really following any news at all. You know, families are stranded in, in Russian airports because they were going for a holiday in the middle of all this. And now they can't because the, the entire European union airspaces close to Russian flights and people aren't getting anywhere, people are stuck there. People who have already traveled outside of Russia are stuck. When you're trying to book a ticket or pay for your Netflix subscription, it's not, it's now gonna cost you two and two point half times as expensive as it was yesterday.

4 (14m 21s):
So you can't help. But notice that something really, really wrong is happening right now. And sure, when people, when these people will log on online and watch the news, they will understand why it's happening to them. And surely this is going to elicit some sort of reaction. I hope

11 (15m 7s):
This is advertiser content from the American cancer society.

12 (15m 11s):
Dear black men, I'm here to encourage all my brothers to get screening tests that helps find cancer early. When it might be easier to treat in 2015, I's diagnosed with colorectal cancer. I had an emergency surgery to move malignant tumor that had ruptured. The real story is that before I had the symptoms, my doctor had been recommending that I get a screening colonoscopy. I kept putting off scheduling it, but I'm glad we caught it before the cancer had spread Today, I'm able to enjoy my family because my cancer was detected early.

12 (15m 55s):
As black men. We face many systemic social economic and racial challenges. According to the American cancer society, black people have the highest death rate and shorter survival rate of any racial ethnic group in the U S for most cancers. But it doesn't have to be this way. Getting regular screenings can help find certain cancers early and can even help prevent colorectal cancer. Listen, my brothers paying attention to our health and wellness. It empowers us to persevere. I'm so blessed to be here today, to share my story with you. Sincerely Dave Ford,

11 (16m 37s):
To learn more about how the American cancer society is addressing cancer disparities through direct work and communities and investments in making the healthcare system more equitable for patients and their families visit cancer.org/health equity.

2 (16m 56s):
Did you hear that it's the stock market crashing, but this isn't a problem since you have a diverse portfolio, right? Right. Well, since we know you're on top of your game, it wouldn't hurt to invest in some blue chip art. I mean, it's not like contemporary art pieces. Haven't outpaced the S and P 500 by 164% or anything, which is why masterworks is such an important platform for investors to take advantage of masterworks is a platform making it possible to invest in multi-million dollar masterpieces that were previously only available to the ultra wealthy. You can invest in paintings by icons like Warhol, Picasso, and Banksy in a few clicks with the help of masterworks investing in valuable.

2 (17m 43s):
One of a kind art is easier than ever. Their team has a combined 75 plus years of art experience, which allows them to help investors find the right artwork for their portfolios. Join over 325,000 users at masterworks.art/vox. That's masterworks.art/vox. See important disclosures at masterworks.io/disclaimer.

14 (18m 17s):
I come today with an appeal to all citizens of Russia, not as president. I am appealing to the people of Russia as a citizen of Ukraine, Ukraine in your news and Ukraine in reality are two completely different countries. The most important difference is that ours, Israel

3 (18m 34s):
We're back with Alexi. Kovalyov the investigative editor at Medusa, which is an independent news website. How does the Russian government typically limit information, independent information from getting to people? What's the mechanism

4 (18m 50s):
Russians media diets depend on, on this sprawling conglomerates of state media outlets, whose penetration is only similar in their scope to maybe China or Turkey or other places where with a very, very strong central government, which is used to imposing its we'll have the executive power. And it's very centrally managed because I worked in a, in a state, in a news agency.

4 (19m 30s):
Yes. And so when we talking about the Russian government, it's usually the presidential administration. Nah, the Putin's admin and Putin's admin people. They have a direct line to all the major TV networks and state news agencies. And they, when something is of, of very immediate importance to them, they kind of micromanage the, the agenda. So I'm looking at, I I'm looking at, you know, leaks, screenshots of chats in those. So, you know, I have people there, I have sources in those state agencies and they're sending me screenshots of memos from their superiors.

4 (20m 11s):
Like under no circumstances under no circumstances called this war, don't use any other sources than the ministry of defense's briefings. And under no circumstances, can you refer to any Ukrainian sources? Wow. Yeah. So this is what it's like on the state media, the rest of us, I increasingly pushed out from, you know, all online use aggregation and you know, cable channels, stuff like that. So we, so we basically all online and of course we, for example, asked me to do so we have doubled in almost tripled our normal audience because people, of course, people want to know what's really going on.

4 (20m 53s):
And there's only so many independent news outlets that are out there, but we still I'm afraid, not even comparable in scope to the reach of those state news outlets.

3 (21m 4s):
We are seeing credible reports that the Russian military is not doing as well as might have been expected as of Monday morning when we're taping. This Russia has not yet taken key of the Pentagon said key could fall. Within a matter of days, we're seeing the Russian military is facing very strong resistance in her Keefe. Our ordinary Russians seeing reports that the Russian military is looking weaker than might have been exposed.

4 (21m 33s):
Russian city only consume news from the state media channels. They wouldn't be even aware that there is military action in Ukraine. So it's being sold. And so it's being sold to the public as they special operation to liberate. That's the word they using those newly independent regions of Eastern Ukraine recognizes and independent by Russia.

3 (22m 2s):
The Russians who are relying only on state media, they don't know that Russian troops are at this moment fighting around Kiev and her Kieve and live and, and numerous other places in Ukraine. They don't know that that's happening.

4 (22m 18s):
No, because the state media only reports, you know, military clashes and confrontations in those breakaway republics because the operation has been salted the public as, as liberation of those, you know, a fellow Russian speaking Ukrainian. So brothers from the yolk of these Nazi hunter, and I'm not exaggerating, this is the word they're using in those reports. Nazis Nazis. Yes. So that's what people who are only consuming state media are seeing on the TV screens

3 (22m 51s):
And Russians who are consuming things like Medusa. Are you able to get the word out? I mean, are you reporting that the Russian military is not doing as well as, as would be expected?

4 (23m 0s):
Th that's that's what we've been doing 24 7 for the past week. I've barely had a, any sleep in the past week and that's all we're covering. Basically. We hopefully we'll have a reporter on the ground soon and yes, us and a few other very few remaining independent media are reporting it as it is. Yeah. At this point. And at this point, my job, my job is basically documenting my country's war crimes.

3 (23m 28s):
Let him hear Putin said over the weekend that he's putting Russia's nuclear forces on high alert. How are people responding to that? Are they worried

4 (23m 36s):
With a really grim jokes? What else? Great. What else can you really do? I mean, sure. I I'm, I'm sure the depression and anxiety and hopelessness will hidden soon, but you know, we're really good at we're really good at dark humor. What's the joke. Well, okay. You kind of got me with my pants off here. I should have There, there, there are some, there are some really, really good nuclear war jokes in Russian.

3 (24m 13s):
Don't always translate. I understand that. What percentage of the population Alexa, do you think is solely relying on Russian state media, which I imagine is easier to access and more pervasive than something like Medusa and independent outlet. What percentage of Russians are getting their information only from the state?

4 (24m 35s):
I can't give you an ex an exact figure because it would be really hard to gauge whether the w whether people are so only solely consuming news from state media. But I would wager that for about 60%, it's their primary source. 60%. Yes. I would S I would say that, especially, especially for the older generation, you know, Russians in the sixties and seventies, the mostly relying on the state media on television, basically tell it television dump. There is no independence. There are no independent TV channels in Russia. That's a, that's one way to put it. There was one, but it only, but it was stripped of its broadcasting license back in 2014.

4 (25m 19s):
So it's not only online. So yeah, you gotta jump through a few hoops to access independent information in Russia. And yeah, that's what prevents a lot of people from accessing it.

3 (25m 32s):
We started this interview by talking about the fact that people who are protesting are people who know what's going on, right. In order to see this as an illegal war, in order to see this as an illegal invasion, you have to be getting accurate information. You can't be hearing that this is just a special military operation, and everything's fine. I want to ask you what you think about the potential that these protests really do succeed. If something along the lines of, and you have said, it's not an exact number, but if something along the lines of 60% of the country are using state run media as their main source of information, how on earth does a Russian protest movement continue?

3 (26m 15s):
If most of the countries being lied to,

4 (26m 17s):
I think at some point, you know, there was, I have to go a few decades back to early two thousands when Putin came to power, and this was a year, this was the first few years were just really never in Russian history, have Russians lift so well. So will also, in that time, millions of us for the first time they had access to better consumer goods. They could go for holidays abroad. They could get loans for all kinds of, you know, consumer stuff that we've never had before.

4 (26m 57s):
So as this kind of tacit agreement between the, between the criminal and the people. So we do the dirty stuff, the politics, and you get the, you get to be well off because we're selling a lot of oil and it's a, it's a $120 per barrel. And you get a slice of that NA oil revenue in cheap loans and cheap cars and cheap TVs. And one thing that we ask of you is that you don't get involved in politics. That was part of the deal between the Kremlin and, and the economy

3 (27m 35s):
Is good. Yeah. Stay out of the political stuff.

4 (27m 38s):
Now, now the contract is broken. Now a lot of people, no matter what, the political convictions are going to get a lot poor. And a lot of people will see the deepening chasm between the official rhetoric and the way they actually live. None of the consumer electronics that we've gotten used to, I was going to be available to us because no one is exporting either electronics themselves or the spare parts, nothing. So we just basically rolling back to a 1998. And a lot of people are, even if they were oblivious to what's happening now, they're going to start asking questions. And I expect that to happen very soon because we are looking, we're just standing on the, on the edge of this base.

3 (28m 24s):
I see what you're saying is so smart. You're saying people might be getting misinformation from the television, from the state run media, but when they go down to the store and suddenly an apple cost twice, what it did yesterday, people stop believing you. They understand that something's going on and they're being lied to. Yeah,

4 (28m 43s):
That's what we call it. A struggle between your fridge and your TV set.

3 (28m 47s):
Is that really what you call

4 (28m 48s):
It? Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's a very popular expression. So this week the TV is definitely winning, but by

3 (28m 56s):
Next week, the fridge maybe winning.

4 (28m 60s):
Yeah.

3 (29m 9s):
Our show today was produced by Victoria Chamberlin edited by Matthew Colette engineered by Paul mousey. And fact-checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Noel king. This is today explained

2 (30m 4s):
Bitcoin, Ethereum Solana. While it might seem that everyone's going crazy over crypto, there are other investors who are pouring millions into an asset. That's outpaced the S and P 500 by 164% for 25 years. Blue chip works of art with masterworks. You can invest in masterpieces by icons like Monet, Picasso, and Banksy for a fraction of the original cost. Join over 300,000 members at masterworks.art/fox that's masterworks.art/vox. See important disclosures at masterworks.io/disclaimer.