0 (1s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. The January 6th committee wants access to deleted text messages that members of the U S secret service sent to each other on January 5th and sixth,

2 (15s):
You have them, we need

0 (16s):
Them. The secret service says those messages were lost during a preplanned system migration. What may be the last hearing of the gen six committee is scheduled for this week? No one knows though, if it will be the real finale, there have been surprises before, like in late June

3 (34s):
Bennie Thompson says, okay, we're done for June. We'll see. After the 4th of July, many of us were sort of packing up our bags to go when we got word, oh no, there is a, another hearing coming a surprise hearing. And we don't know anything about it. We don't know who's testifying. We don't know why it's coming up. And then we learned who is going to testify.

0 (52s):
What happened at the surprise hearing. And what's going to be done with all this information coming up.

4 (60s):
What does that people have internet I'm Marquez, Brownlee, AK MKBHD. And I just want to quickly tell you about my podcast way form. So I've been making tech review videos on YouTube for over a decade. And through the years I've gotten my hands on some pretty cool jaw-dropping tech on wave form, along with my co-host Andrew, Megan, Nelly, we take a more, in-depth look at some of the most recent bleeding edge tech out today. We covered the crazy stuff that you don't see everyday, like camera, robot, arms, and rollable TVs.

5 (1m 24s):
But we also covered everyday tech like spark phones, laptops, and like the influx of EVs that seem to come out or what feels like every other week,

4 (1m 33s):
All that stuff. So if you want to stay up to date with the latest tech and internet news, you can find us on Spotify, apple podcasts, or anywhere you listen. See you there

0 (1m 45s):
Today explained we're back. Andrea Bernstein co-host of the podcast. We'll be wild about the attack on the Capitol and author of the book, American oligarchs. The Cushner is the trumps and the marriage of money and power Bennie Thompson makes that announcement. And the surprise witness was 26 year old Cassidy Hutchinson. And there seems to be broad agreement that this is a huge moment, a watershed moment in these hearings,

3 (2m 12s):
She was, you know, a young person in the white house, but because of the way the white house is organized, she was in the room with all of these immensely powerful people. And, you know, it was also someone who had gained their trust and they said many things to her. You know, she was texting with people. She was speaking to people. She had a direct relationship with the former president. And you know, it was this extraordinary moment when this 26 year old woman comes out and just answers questions.

6 (2m 42s):
Thanks to the courage of certain individuals, the truth won't be buried. The American people won't be left in the dark. Our witness today, Ms. Cassie Hutchinson has embodied that courage.

3 (2m 58s):
And you know, what had happened with her interestingly, was that she had been supplied a lawyer by the Trump team. She became increasingly uncomfortable with that lawyer and switched attorneys to a man named Jody hunt. After she hires him, she calls up the committee and she says, I have more to say, they take a fourth deposition. And they realize that they need to get her out in the public right away, both lock in her testimony. And also because they begin to hear that she's being intimidated by people close to the former president, and they don't want anything to change. So that's when they spring this testimony on us. And it is dramatic not only because she's describing all of his interactions with the former president, but because she's telling us things that we just didn't know, for example, that he wanted so badly to go to the Capitol, that he had a confrontation with his security team.

3 (3m 55s):
After the infamous speech at the ellipse,

7 (4m 2s):
The president said something to the effect of I'm the effing president. Take me up to the Capitol now to which Bobby responded, sir, we have to go back to the west wing. The president reached up towards the front of the vehicle to crab at the steering wheel. Mr. Angle grabbed his arm said, sir, you need to take your hand off the steering wheel. We're going back to the west wing. We're not going to the Capitol, Mr. Trump. Then he used his free hand to lunge towards Bobby angle. And Mr. When Mr. Renato had recounted the story to me, he had motioned towards his clavicles.

3 (4m 43s):
He was aware that the crowd was armed and knowing that knowing the kinds of weapons, they had pepper spray Spears attached to the end of flagpoles body armor, directed them to go to the Capitol. That was extraordinary evidence. And that was just one part of the testimony that she had delivered to the committee. That was so revealing.

0 (5m 7s):
That was one part. What else about her testimony stood out to you?

3 (5m 11s):
Well, I think that, you know, she sort of starts out by talking about interactions. She has with Rudy Giuliani, the former attorney for the former president, and it's on January 2nd and she's walking him out to the parking lot. And he says to her,

7 (5m 25s):
Are you excited for the sixth? It's going to be a great day. We're going to the Capitol. It's going to be great. The president's going to be there. He's going to look powerful. He's, he's going to get the members. He's going to be with the senators.

3 (5m 37s):
And she is really not sure what that's about. And she goes, and she asks mark meadow, who is sitting on the couch in his office, looking at his phone.

7 (5m 46s):
I remember leaning against the doorway and saying, I said, an interesting conversation is Rudy. Mark sounds like we're going to go to the Capitol. He didn't look up from his phone and said something to the effect of there's a lot going on gas, but I don't know. Things might get real, real bad on January six.

3 (6m 8s):
So she begins to get worried because this is several days beforehand. She doesn't know what's happening. And she's in on these meetings where the white house is warned that there may be violence where on January six itself, she accompanies the former president to the speech at the ILIT.

7 (6m 29s):
Well, we were in the offstage announced tent. I was part of a conversation. I was in the, I was in the vicinity of a conversation where I overheard the president, say something to the effect of, you know, I, I don't, I think here that they have weapons, they're not here to hurt me, take the effing bags away, let my people, and they can March the Capitol from here, let the people and take the shopping bags away.

3 (6m 52s):
And she tries to talk to Mark Meadows, the former chief of staff, and he's in his car and he slams the car door on her. And he does this twice. And this is really an extraordinary moment of what is going on with the former chief of staff that he won't take this information about the gathering attack on the Capitol at this crucial moment in history. So, you know, that was something that really, really struck me about her testimony. And, you know, then all of these details about, for example, the PA the former white house counsel, pat sip alone, being aware that there might be violence at the Capitol that the president has legal liability. If he goes to the Capitol because of incitement to riot. And she really sort of lays the broad outline of this last desperate attempt by the former president to hang on to power.

0 (7m 42s):
The most recent hearings centered some extremist groups, including the proud boys and the oath keepers. Was there anything notable about the testimony from members of these groups or ex members of these groups?

3 (7m 55s):
I think for most people, it was quite shocking news to have a description from a former Oathkeepers in the cider of, you know, what the group was, which was as he described it, a militia group who wanted to sew chaos and violence and bring about civil war.

8 (8m 10s):
I think we need to quit mincing words and just talk about truths and what it was going to be was an armed revolution. I mean, people died that day. There was a gallows set up in front of the Capitol. This could have been the spark that started a new civil war.

3 (8m 27s):
The other sort of person who basically had come to hear the president speech insertive rode the wave of the crowd to the Capitol was basically talking about he was following the former president's orders.

9 (8m 40s):
No, we didn't actually plan to go down there. You know, we went basically to see the stop, the steel rally, and that was it.

10 (8m 47s):
So why did you decide to March to the Capitol?

9 (8m 50s):
Well, basically, you know, the president got everybody riled up to what everybody had on down. So we basically would just fall on when he said,

3 (8m 59s):
So if you really had no sort of exposure before to the oath keepers or the proud boys, I think this was, you know, very effective testimony for some people. Can you tell us about the December 18th meeting?

11 (9m 11s):
The startling conclusion is this even an agreed upon complete lack of evidence could not stop president Trump, Mark Meadows, and their allies from trying to overturn the results of a free and fair election. So let's return to that meeting at the white house on the evening of December 18,

3 (9m 30s):
Just to set this in context. The, so December 14th is the electoral college vote. And on December 14th, obviously Joe Biden is declared the president of United States. And this is the point at which Mitch McConnell the Senate. Then the Senate majority leader, who, you know, really has not been saying anything, he's been avoiding saying anything about Trump losing says, you know, we have to recognize that Joe Biden is the president.

12 (9m 55s):
How many millions of us had hoped the presidential election would yield a different result? The electoral college has spoken

3 (10m 4s):
According to the former white house counsel, pet alone. He told Trump the same thing, basically it's over. Well, what does Trump do for Trump? It's not over. So he doesn't like the fact that his attorney general his new acting attorney, general, his white house counsel, his other lawyers, even people on his campaign are telling him he lost. So he takes a meeting with this fringe group and they go to the white house and they present this really extraordinary plan and, you know, credit to the New York times and others who had reported on this meeting in real time. But who is there? Sidney Powell, a lawyer who has espoused conspiracy theories.

3 (10m 45s):
So fringy that her own lawyer has disavowed them in court records. Rudy Giuliani is there at some point general Michael Flynn, who was convicted of lying to the FBI who had only been recently pardoned by Trump. And they are discussing with the president. What is really clearly an extra legal plan of getting his department of defense to seas voting machines. And pat sip alone is telling the president, this is a terrible idea. And he is annoyed in his deposition with the committee when they say, well, why did you think that was a terrible idea?

13 (11m 24s):
I don't, I don't understand why we even have to tell you why that's a bad thing to use. It's a terrible idea.

3 (11m 30s):
That is the wee hours after midnight on December 18th. So early the morning of December 19th at 1:42 AM. The president sends out this infamous message, which starts with a restatement of the big lie that it was, as he said, statistically, impossible for him to have lost. And then he says big protest in Washington, DC, January six, be there will be wild. What we don't know as we go into the final hearing of the committee is whether the idea of a large rally of summoning, a mob to Washington was discussed and that unhinged meeting.

3 (12m 11s):
And that's one of the big questions that I have. Was this something that general Michael Flynn and city pal were saying he should do? Or was this something that he came up with on his own, but what happens? And, and I think is what a very underplayed aspect of hearing number seven is according to an employee of Twitter, who we don't know who it is because that person's voice was disguised. He said, what really scared me was that the president was now speaking directly to extremist groups. And we know from what happened that people like Alex Jones, the oath keepers, the proud boys immediately get together.

3 (12m 52s):
And they start talking about working together, deploying people to Washington. There was actually an encrypted chat group with Roger Stone, sort of the, you know, devil who's been on Trump's shoulder since the 1980s, advising him on how to get around things for lack of a better way of describing it. So this is someone who is very close to the president who is in phone contact with who Cassidy Hutchinson, in fact testified that Trump wanted Mark Meadows to speak to Roger Stone. On the evening before the rally, he is in a chat group with the leaders of these extremist groups who are basically saying, you know, come to Washington, come armed.

3 (13m 36s):
January 6th is going to be a big day where we are going to change the course of history.

Into It: A Vulture Podcast with Sam Sanders on Apple Podcasts (13m 55s):
Let me tell you two fruits of life. There are no bad Bruno Mars songs, and there are no bad Katy Perry songs. They don't exist. These Are extreme opinions. And that is what I do. Hey, there are phenomenal Katy Perry songs, but also say they're a terrible game. Katy Perry. So you're wrong. It's good. Hey, I'm Sam Sanders and I'm hosting a new culture podcast. It's called Intuit from vulture in New York magazine each week on the show. We'll get into the pop culture that we just can't stop thinking about like the Chainsmokers song that became a pro-choice Anthem on Tik TOK, or why comedy specials got so serious or yeah, honestly, I don't even know how to explain this one. Does his poop also time travel? What about his saliva Into it? The weekly culture podcast from vulture launching July 28th, subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

Land Of The Giants (15m 1s):
And I'm Alex Heath, we're hosting land of the giants, a podcast about the biggest tech companies of our time. This season Metta formerly known as Facebook. It's a company in a particularly controversial and vulnerable moment. Mark Zuckerberg is placing a multi-billion dollar bet towards an imagined metaverse future. Meanwhile, the rest of us are still grappling with what he's already built This season. We're going to talk to the executive steering Meta's biggest decisions. And you'll hear from some of Meta's sharpest critics. It's former employees We'll explore wise Ackerberg is taking the company in a bold direction and how Facebook's past will inform its future Land of the giants. The Facebook Mehta disruption from Recode, the verge and the Vox media podcast network. This season is sponsored by Klayvio Subscribe for free wherever you listen and get our first episode on Wednesday, July 13th,

18 (15m 59s):
Every one of these elements of the planning for January 6th is an independently serious matter. They were all ultimately focused on overturning the election and they all have one other thing in common. Donald Trump participated in each substantially and personally

0 (16m 18s):
Today explained we're back with Andrea Bernstein. Host of the podcast will be wild. Andrew. The question was always, will these hearings pull the threads together in a way that is coherent and will be effective? It does seem like since late June, since Cassidy Hutchinson testified, there's been momentum, but you're the expert. Go ahead.

3 (16m 40s):
One of the things that I think has been so effective about these hearings is that right after January six, there was still a spin on the part of some supporters of the former president. Look, this was a protest rally that got out of hand and there was no intent for the president to launch a violent attack on law enforcement. And, you know, had the law enforcement people not been there potentially on members of Congress. I mean, we know from videotape that members of Congress were, were seconds away. Mike Pence was, you know, assertive 40 paces away from the mob that was saying, hang Mike pants. And that had erected a gallows outside the Capitol.

3 (17m 23s):
So there was a sense of, well maybe, you know, he didn't know what he was unleashing or what he was trying to do. But one of the things that these hearings have done is almost made that question irrelevant because we know how hard he worked to subvert the lawful transfer of power. We know from some of this very dramatic testimony by the top officials at the justice department, right before January, that he had tried to install someone at the department of justice who was going to tell state legislatures to not send up their slice of electors to Washington.

19 (18m 0s):
He said, so suppose I do this suppose I replaced him, Jeff Rosen with him, Jeff Clark, what would you do? And I said, Mr. President, I'm resigned immediately. I'm not working one minute for this guy. And then I said, and we're not the only ones, no one cares if we were resigned, if Steve and I go, that's fine. It doesn't matter. But I'm telling you what's gonna happen. You're gonna lose your entire department leadership.

3 (18m 23s):
We know that he tried to influence the secretary of state in Georgia to recount the votes. We know that he was pressuring state legislatures all around the country directly, and that he was putting in ordinary amounts of pressure on his vice-president, including a meeting that his own daughter described us as heated in the white house. The

20 (18m 46s):
Conversation was, was pretty heated

3 (18m 49s):
Where according to the top it to Ivanka Trump who was senior white house advisor at the time we called Mike Pence, the P word, this was 1120 on the morning of January 6th. So less than two hours before the vote count, he was screaming at Mike pants that he had to not go ahead and certify the votes. So we know that he was trying up to the last minute to block the, the transfer of power. We know that he directed a violent mob that he knew was armed to the Capitol. So at this point, it's sort of, well, does it matter if he picked up the phone and called someone to be oath, keepers, or call the cut-out to get them to stir up the crowd?

3 (19m 36s):
We know he was communicating with extremists in a language that he often deployed, and we know that they responded. And as representative Cheney said in the seventh hearing, he's a 76 year old man responsible for his actions.

18 (19m 50s):
He is not an impressionable child. As our investigation has shown Donald Trump had access to more detailed and specific information showing that the election was not actually stolen than almost any other American.

3 (20m 5s):
So it's almost irrelevant exactly what Trump said, because we know he said to a violent mob March up to the Capitol. So what I do think these hearings have done is shifted our frame of reference. So it is crystal clear that Trump did not want to leave office, that he wanted to block the transfer of power and that he did. So after being advised over and over again by his campaign team, by his government officials, that he had no basis for doing so. And that is an extraordinary thing.

0 (20m 39s):
Okay, let's talk about what happens next. What is the January 6th committee building toward, what are they going to do with this information?

3 (20m 48s):
You know, I think one thing that people ask me over and over and over again as well, is anybody going to be indicted? Is Trump going to be indicted? And that's a real question. And I think it's a really, really difficult question for the justice department at this point, because, you know, we do see people like Stephen, the, the protestor who, you know, basically said my life was ruined because I just sort of, you know, rode along to the Capitol on January 6th.

9 (21m 11s):
And for me, I felt like I had, you know, like horse blinders on. I was, I was locked in the whole time. I guess thing for me is take the blinders off, makes you step back and see what's going on before it's too late.

3 (21m 25s):
You see people like that who have been convicted of crimes. Who've, you know, many of whom have gone to prison. Many of whom are in jail, awaiting their trials for their violent crimes. Some 800 people's lives have been affected, but not yet president Trump or any of his top advisors. Now, you know that yet I realized that this sort of pregnant word, they may never indict president Trump. We just don't know. But I think that one of the things that these hearings have done is made it very difficult for the justice department to explain why all these other people are paying, but not the top officials. And I think that was one of the goals of the committee.

3 (22m 5s):
They have no law enforcement power, they cannot indict people. The question of will this be referred to the justice department is sort of a misdirection because the justice department can investigate anybody at once at any time

0 (22m 20s):
Might the justice department do. Why, why does it seem like you've been so quiet?

3 (22m 25s):
So, I mean, I do think that, you know, the justice department, you know, to be fair, has to do its investigations and quiet. Otherwise they would appear to be tainted and, you know, they might tip off witnesses and to what they were looking for and they could change the story or they could hide documents, but there are alarming things that have emerged. For example, there was a story in the New York times that they were taken by surprise by Cassidy Hutchinson's testimony. Well, why was that there? The justice department, I mean, we've seen the congressional committee go all the way to the Supreme court to fight, to get documents, but the justice department, you know, they can stage early morning rates. Now they've done some, for example, they've searched the records of Jeffrey Clark, who is the former justice department official, who was willing to go along with Trump and try to get state legislators to not participate in the certification of the election.

3 (23m 16s):
There was John Eastman.

21 (23m 17s):
So John Eastman revealed six FBI agents approached him in New Mexico. Last Wednesday when he was leaving a restaurant with his wife and a friend, they patted him down. They found an iPhone, his iPhone on him. They were able to obtain access to it through biometrics has facial recognition. And then they were able to obtain his email communications that were on that phone.

3 (23m 42s):
There is certainly an effort to look at this question of false electors representative Bennie Thompson said in a, in a press availability with reporters after the seventh hearing that the justice department had been talking to them about this fake elector scheme, but he said only that. So it's unclear if they're going to be looking at some of these other things like incitement in a lot of defendants, January 6th, defendants have been convicted of disrupting an official proceeding or conspiring to disrupt an official proceeding. So, you know, that is a sort of easier charge to make out then seditious conspiracy or something else.

3 (24m 25s):
I think what they're wrestling with. And, and I don't, I don't disagree with them is that in a democracy, there is a danger. If somebody takes office and then indicts their political opponent, that is exactly the kind of system that the U S prior to 2016, went around the world trying to stop, because it does undermine confidence in the rule of law. On the other side, when you have this extraordinary precedented situation, when you know that a former president tried to use his government, try to use his bully puppet to overturn the peaceful transfer of power.

3 (25m 10s):
And when none of that work said to a mob, he knew was highly armed, go to the Capitol and fight like, hell, it becomes hard to say that is not something that we should do something about. And that is what I think one of the reasons behind these committee hearings is to lay out that whole story so that it becomes clear. This is not about political retribution. This is about upholding the rule of law

0 (25m 42s):
Today's show was produced by Heidi Milwaukee deep. It was edited by Matthew collect. It was fact-checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Paul mousey. I'm Noel king it's today explained