0 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from financial times. Here's the thing about the financial times that you might not know, it covers a lot more than just business and finance. If you want to go beyond the headlines on essential subjects like technology, politics, climate change, and yes, finance and business, then you're going to love the financial times, especially because using our link Ft com slash today explained we'll get you 50% off an annual digital subscription head over there today to read carefully selected articles and grabbed your discount, knowledge and great journalism awaits F t.com/today explained this trucker convoy's situation in Canada has become so bad that prime minister, Justin Trudeau had to kick off the week with a move.

0 (52s):
Unlike any the nation had seen since his father ran the country a generation ago,

1 (58s):
The federal government is invoked. The emergencies act to supplement provincial and territorial capacity to address the blockades and occupations.

0 (1m 11s):
He was turning up the heat on the convoy, blockading

1 (1m 15s):
The streets and critical infrastructure and depriving your neighbors of their freedoms is a totally different thing. It has to

0 (1m 27s):
Stop. And the message was pretty clear

1 (1m 30s):
At the time to go home it's now,

0 (1m 34s):
But even if the truckers go home, which they haven't yet, they've scored a pretty significant victory.

2 (1m 40s):
Thousands of people have occupied Canada's capital with a demand for a dropping of the vast majority of our vaccine mandates they've represented the most coordinated effort of anti-vaxxers since the start of this pandemic. And this is about to spread much further than Ottawa.

0 (1m 58s):
Justin Ling has been covering the trucker convoy. We reached out to ask him how these Canadians struck such a chord with the word.

2 (2m 7s):
This thing has taken on a life of its own. And there's no clear sign when it's going to end. And it's now spread throughout Europe into Australia and New Zealand. And it's going to probably be an incredibly significant meeting of a number of far right anti-vaccine groups in DC in a matter of weeks.

0 (2m 27s):
Believe it or not. All of this kind of starts with Q Anon.

2 (2m 32s):
Yeah. So listen, at the beginning of all of this thing, there's a guy named James Bauder about two and a half years ago. He took part in a, another convoy to Ottawa. But this time the convoy was all about a price on carbon that Justin Trudeau had put into effect.

3 (2m 47s):
Justin just says one thing and does another, and we can't get our oil to Tidewater. We can't build a pipeline. We can't get one east and the carbon taxes I'm like, how much can

2 (2m 58s):
Canadians have? And when they arrived, it was sort of this hodgepodge of ant. You had some mainstream political figures. You had, you know, some oil workers, some truckers and some white nationalist figures. So it wasn't terribly successful. It was kind of a big rally. Everyone left and went home. But I guess James batter got in his head that, you know, these convoys are super effective. So not long after he got back home to Alberta, he founded this group called Canada unity.

3 (3m 28s):
My name is James Potter, founder of Canada, unity foundation. So brass tax all in is a, the Conway for freedoms is going to bring trucks, cars, vans, pickup trucks, Sami's are going to go to Ottawa and give Ottawa a big loving bear hug.

2 (3m 51s):
And it didn't do much at first, but once the pandemic began, he started a Facebook page, a website for this group. And it was very clear that he was against all sorts of public health measures around COVID-19. You know, he starts posting the, where we go. One, we go all Q Anon, hashtag he starts sharing a whole bunch of conspiracy theories that have become sort of dogma of the Q Anon movement. Obviously he believes in the big lie that Donald Trump actually won the last us presidential election. So he uses his group candidate unity to start organizing a convoy to Ottawa. And his idea is that Britain should go to Ottawa. We're going to protest in front of the prime minister's house and telling him we want him gone.

2 (4m 34s):
And we're going to deliver this document to the speaker of the Senate. And this document claims that all vaccine mandates and measures are illegitimate and, and illegal under Canada's constitution and a whole bunch of international law. And basically says that by signing this document and it Polish all of these vaccine mandates and requirements and set up a committee whereby him and a random assortment of citizens would be able to dictate policy for the Canadian government.

3 (5m 4s):
Everybody got together and said, you know what? We're going to get on the road. And we're going to go to parliament and we're going to make history. And we're going to tell Trudeau that the drama class is over. We didn't hire a drama teacher. We hired somebody that was supposed to manage the affairs of our country and not destroy our country. So hopefully when he gets there, his resignation is in his hand and he just exits out and leaves directing a country to those that actually know what they're doing.

2 (5m 33s):
He's basically saying we should override our democratically elected parliament in order to abolish all these vaccine mandates and dictate what the policy of the government should be. But the thing about this convoy is that it didn't work. This happened in October of last year. He drove to Ottawa with maybe a couple dozen people, if that they protested for a couple of days and he left and it wasn't until early this year, he started planning a second trip to Ottawa that other groups started joining that other anti-vaccine influencers started getting in the know, and this thing absolutely took off What was different this time.

2 (6m 15s):
I think really they had a great sort of new frame for the whole thing in late December, early January, Justin Trudeau and the Biden administration announced they were going to basically remove an exemption for truckers crossing the border. And then as of mid January, they would have to be vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to have a way to 14 day quarantine. So in practice, it meant that it would be almost impossible to be an unvaccinated trucker crossing the U S Canada border. This doesn't actually impact that many Canadians, about 85% of truckers are fully vaccinated, but it became the sort of popular national concern that this could disrupt some supply chains and that there would be a risk to, to greater inflation, to food shortages.

2 (7m 0s):
So on and so forth. If this vaccine mandate came into effect, it's important to note, he never actually says it's about the truckers. He wants every single vaccine mandate and passport gone. And the trucker thing just becomes a really useful sort of news peg for him. And because it's getting so much public attention, you see a bunch of anti-vaccine groups take advantage of this. They notice that this is in the public discourse. They realize it's kind of their, their great opportunity to get some coverage, to get some news. And you see all these other groups start joining batter's effort. None of them are household names, but there's one that represents police officers who have been removed from the job for not getting vaccinated. There's one, that's a coalition of doctors who have been thoroughly discredited, but who are passing on disinformation, but the safety and efficacy of vaccines, you have another group that's against all COVID-19 measures, especially masks.

2 (7m 53s):
You have a number of independent organizers. One of whom has pedaled the white replacement theory. That is a common trope of the white nationalist movement. We'll also engage as in Holocaust denial. Do you have a number of organizers who have pushed to make Canada's Western provinces independent from the country? So you have this, this real constellation of folks who have been working at different ends for quite some time, who are now for really the first time getting on the same page, getting on the same email chains, you know, using their own networks together. And it's, it gets really big. It's super effective.

5 (8m 34s):
Well, over a thousand people lining the trans Canada highway outside of Winnipeg in minus 30 windshields protesting what they call government overreach.

2 (8m 44s):
It came from Calgary. What do you think of that

4 (8m 48s):
Country?

2 (8m 49s):
By like January 25th, 26th, you start seeing these images from a way out west and way out east of these trucks starting to make their way across the country. You know, you're talking about hundreds of vehicles at this point, some trucks, some personal vehicles, and as the day goes by and they get closer, closer to the Capitol, you see more and more vehicles joining. You see these solidarity and support rallies coming out of to meet the convoy as they crossed the country.

6 (9m 16s):
So togetherness, like I've never felt before it isn't about a vaccine mandate on truckers. This is about the entire thing it's got to go.

7 (9m 24s):
It's all mandates. It's for the freedom of everybody here. That's why I'm here. And I'm going to stay as long as it takes to change everything.

0 (9m 32s):
How does this disrupt the,

2 (9m 35s):
It has made basically everything in downtown Ottawa grind to a halt, right? You know, most businesses can't be open. Most people are actually having a hard time sleeping or leaving their homes. People have, have decamped tech anywhere else got no hotel rooms gone to their cottage, gone to stay with friends. It's basically impossible to drive through the downtown core. People are literally afraid to keep their masks on because they're getting harassed by some of the occupiers. The people are,

1 (10m 5s):
I don't deserve to be harassed in their own neighborhoods. They don't deserve to be confronted with the inherent violence of a swastika flying on a street corner or a Confederate flag,

2 (10m 19s):
But it has not been overtly violent thus far. I think that's important to know there has not been an effort to beat up people in the street who disagree with them or, or, you know, attack police or anything like that. And meanwhile,

0 (10m 31s):
This becomes not just an Ottawa thing, but an all over Canada

2 (10m 35s):
Thing. Yeah, absolutely.

8 (10m 40s):
Ah, protesters in Toronto are once again calling for an end to government imposed mandates.

2 (10m 47s):
And we want our freedom back. I want my country back. Yeah. You've seen solidarity protests pop up in Toronto, Halifax, Calgary Victoria, a number of places across the country where folks have come out to register their support for the occupation. And to specifically spread misinformation and disinformation about vaccines

9 (11m 7s):
Protestors. First gathered in peace and friendship park in downtown Halifax. Early Saturday afternoon,

10 (11m 13s):
The protesters made stops in different neighborhoods in Vancouver, like Mount pleasant and your Kitsilano Calgary's.

11 (11m 19s):
The streets were a loud place, Saturday joining many across,

2 (11m 23s):
But the most sort of disruptive of all of those have been a series of border blockades that you've seen in Alberta, Manitoba, and very specifically on the Windsor Detroit bridge

12 (11m 34s):
Trucks and other protestors blocking traffic at the ambassador bridge that links Windsor, Ontario and Detroit. It's a major artery for cross border commercial.

2 (11m 44s):
That is one of the most important corridors for the Canadian economy and which was shut down for a number of days nearly a week. I only just reopened

13 (11m 53s):
Just before Dawn Sunday morning, a man holds a flag as he looks out on police behind him, a small group of protesters who stayed out here all night, the remnants of a group that stopped traffic on the ambassador bridge, linking Ontario and Michigan over the past week.

0 (12m 8s):
I believe that shutdown in particular cost the automobile industry in Canada and the United States millions and millions of dollars. And that's really one that, that led a lot of people to wonder where the police were in all of this. What is going on with the response to especially the shutting down of a major international thoroughfare?

2 (12m 31s):
Yeah, I, it, listen, people have been asking that straight across the country, since this whole thing began. I have some sympathy for some of the police forces that are trying to manage this. It's one thing to go and arrest a group of people who are just standing and blocking a road or, you know, protesting in a city or occupying a park or what have you. Yeah. Luckily in Windsor, when they finally went in to do this after much hand-wringing and, and, you know, jurisdictional squabbling, and sort of trying to rationalize with them and negotiate with them after all that failed, they went in, went in to go make arrests. And it just worked immediately.

8 (13m 11s):
Terminal police, liaison officers told the group, it was time to go or else they'd face arrest. This big rig driver complied not wanting his truck to be towed away. Others had their vehicles removed from a nearby parking lot

2 (13m 24s):
To these people either packed up and left or, you know, resisted relatively peacefully until, until they were arrested and charged with mischief. But the thing was cleared, you know, once Windsor police finally went in and basically said, enough's enough, we're taking you away from the

14 (13m 40s):
Onset of the demonstration. Our goal was to resolve this situation safely and peacefully

15 (13m 46s):
Windsor police, chief Pamela Mizuno says, that's exactly what happened.

0 (13m 50s):
Hmm. And how do Canadians generally view this protest

2 (13m 54s):
Badly negatively? Now every single poll we've had thus far suggests that two-thirds of the country reject this protest and are against it. And, you know, th I think there's this feeling that is growing that our politicians and our police need to do something about this. And they aren't.

0 (14m 21s):
Where does that leave the country

2 (14m 24s):
Frustrated? And without much of a recourse, you know, I'm really sympathetic to the spot. The Ottawa police are in. They, they really do not have the capacity to end this tomorrow. That being said in the last number of hours, the prime minister has invoked the emergencies act, which gives him a significant new latitude to use federal resources, to declare this thing illegal, you know, to support the Ottawa police, to take charge of coordination, to potentially start making some of those arrests. There have been attempts to freeze some of their fundraising, their fundraising by the way, has, has surpassed probably I think $10 million is, is a relatively good estimate at this point between a number of fundraisers direct appeals.

2 (15m 9s):
And there've been coined reserves. So this is turning into a business. At this point, these people are actually making money. They're going to be rich off this. They say, they're going to dispense all that money to the truckers and the protesters to cover expenses, but they're going to have millions of dollars leftover. So where that money actually goes as an open question,

4 (15m 39s):
More

2 (15m 40s):
With Justin

4 (15m 41s):
In a minute,

16 (16m 3s):
If folks I'm Heather Cox

17 (16m 4s):
Richardson and I'm Joanne Freeman,

16 (16m 7s):
We're the hosts of now. And then a weekly podcast that looks to the American past to make sense of our current political and cultural climate.

17 (16m 14s):
There's been a wave of headlines recently about book bands, school boards and state governments are trying to outlaw the teaching of books that they find objectionable from art Spiegelman's mouse to Toni Morrison's the bluest eye

16 (16m 29s):
This week on now. And then we're releasing the first episode of a three-part series.

17 (16m 34s):
The series we'll dive deep into past book panics, explore why public school so often become ideological battlegrounds and dissect the interplay between book bands and political bullying.

16 (16m 47s):
Join us as we try to make sense of the role that bands have played in our national culture and explain why we're seeing so many bands today,

17 (16m 55s):
Listen for free on apple cafe.com or wherever you get your podcasts.

4 (17m 4s):
This is advertiser content from the American cancer society.

18 (17m 7s):
My name is Cynthia Bigay and I'm Hopi born for the Mexican people, anti Roberta. We called you birdie. I'm thinking of you, you who inspired me more than any other to stay connected to my Navajo culture. You who made me beautiful silver and turquoise jewelry that I still treasure you, who were one of the last of our family, whose first language is Navajo. You who died of breast cancer from my home in California, I have dedicated myself to helping tribal communities deal with cancer and other health concerns. Growing up as an urban American Indian, I saw firsthand the hardships and health disparities. Our people face, we face higher of many cancers, and we are more likely to have screenable cancers detected at late stages than white patients.

18 (17m 57s):
Our elders are getting older. I worry about what happens as a keepers of our culture pass on. So I am here to help keep our culture and to help combat the health disparities that threatened us. We have to make sure we have access to screenings, clinics, and quality health care that we do, mammograms, that we get HPV vaccines to prevent cervical and other cancers. She must sunny birdie. I carry forward your legacy with my career in public health. And I thank you for all the gifts you have given me initially love Cynthia Bigay

19 (18m 33s):
To learn more about how the American cancer society is addressing cancer disparities through direct work in communities and investments in making the healthcare system more equitable for patients and their families visit cancer.org/health equity,

4 (18m 51s):
The Canada <em></em>

0 (18m 60s):
Justin. You just mentioned that these protestors are actually raising a ton of money. And not only that you earlier mentioned that this thing's kind of going international. Tell me more about

2 (19m 10s):
This has found a whole bunch of purchase in other countries where you've seen, you know, more stringent and strict vaccine requirements and lockdown measures. You've seen it in the UK.

20 (19m 24s):
The, I saw a new Scotland yard freedom convoy

2 (19m 29s):
In Linda had a relatively large solidarity protest. There's there was a plan convoy for Brussels Canberra and Australia and New Zealand.

21 (19m 40s):
I'm never getting this vaccination. I am actually vaccinated. I'm actually mandating people to be vaccinated. I think it's disgraceful for certain vaccination or people who don't want it.

2 (19m 51s):
A number of places have seen these solidarity convoys and protests popup largely inspired by the Canadian occupiers, but in the U S things have been a little bit slower, but also in the last couple of days, you've seen some of the organizations pop up and say, basically, we've been working behind the scenes. We've been toiling to get sort of these plans together. And we're finally ready to kind of come out and announce our routes. So you're going to see in the first week of March, at least three different organizations launch their own quote, unquote freedom convoys headed for Washington DC. And I have news for you,

22 (20m 25s):
America. They're coming our way. They've already blocked one major bridge that has 20% of all the commerce. They're already organized organizing for a March 1st move from Oregon over to Washington, DC. People want their lives back. What don't they understand about that?

2 (20m 43s):
And it's funny because they're not really protesting vaccine. They don't really have that many vaccine mandates to object to what you're seeing is sort of a grab bag of grievances. To some degree they're supporting the Canadians to some degree they're opposing masks to some degree they're just fundamentally rejecting vaccines and the Biden administration and sort of everything.

0 (21m 6s):
What are they projected that the mask mandates are ending across the country and a whole lot of people here aren't vaccinated, and that doesn't seem to be an issue. Yeah,

2 (21m 13s):
But you know, in the recent days I heard one of the chief organizers say, you know, we're not just up against the U S government, we're up against you, a $30 trillion pharmaceutical industry, right? They're fundamentally not even asking for anything. They're just going to sort of register their rage at vaccines by and large. And you're seeing the same conspiratorial thinking from the U S organizers, as you've seen from a bunch of the Canadian ones, they believe the vaccines are dangerous. They believe they're all an effort to create a one-world government. They think the world economic forum is behind everything. They think there are sort of patriotic revolution that had started under Donald Trump is under threat.

2 (21m 53s):
And this is the attempt to sort of fight back. And it should not surprise anyone that a number of people who were at the January 6th insurrection are also organizing this, this freedom convoy. You've already seen, you know, a number of people, including folks who advocated for the arrest and execution of members of the media and members of the government participate. You're already seeing an appeal to groups like the three percenters and the oath keepers to join in their, their convoy. And it's really raising the possibility that you're going to see a lot of the same people who came out for January 6th, descend on the Capitol again in early March,

0 (22m 28s):
You know, we've seen anti-vax and, you know, conspiratorial ideation in this country and abroad since the pandemic began, what was it about this trucker convoy in Canada that struck such a chord that you're now going to be seeing potentially these similar protests happening around the world?

2 (22m 48s):
I think there is this innovation that I'm not sure the Canadian organizers realized would be effective until they did it. And it's just the reality of bringing these trucks along is incredibly impactful, right? If 10,000 people had descended on Ottawa, no one would have blinked. 10,000 people is a medium-sized demonstration for Ottawa. The fact that they were able to bring these trucks and shut down the city and shut down these highways and overwhelm police in their response suddenly kind of bolted this into an international story. And it made them basically impossible to get rid of it. At least in the short term, I think a whole bunch of organizers around the world saw that and went, oh my God, that cracked the code.

2 (23m 34s):
Suddenly we can capture the narrative and, and dictate our expectations to city and local state governments. It's worth noting that the Canadian occupiers have already been super effective for provincial period is actually now have announced an end to some of their vaccine mandates of their vaccine passport system. They've, they've essentially one, you know, this has been a coup for them, right? This has worked for them. You have to imagine there was a bunch of anti-vaccine groups who are looking on enviously who want to repeat that success.

0 (24m 11s):
And the one major innovation here is it seems as that everyone figured out they can use trucks to disrupt the country when they don't like the government's policies.

2 (24m 22s):
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's, I I'm sure a lot of them are kicking themselves and not having it figured out earlier, but that's kind of it. I mean, it, it will also depend a lot on what police DC do, right? If they can stop this convoy from showing up in Washington and sort of rewarding and short circuiting, those efforts, then maybe this innovation isn't so great. Maybe this is more a failure of the Ottawa police than anything else. But if the convoy in DC makes it to the Capitol and they decide to embark on their own occupation of the city, well, you know, this may kick off a method of protest that isn't going away,

0 (25m 4s):
And then you can interview me for your podcast. Can't wait.

2 (25m 9s):
Now I'm moving to a robot. I'm moving to somewhere with no trucks, Some over it.

0 (25m 32s):
Justin Ling is a freelance investigative journalist based in Montreal. He's got his own show. It's called the flame throwers podcast. It's all about how right wing radio radicalized America episode 999 of today explained was produced by Hadi <em></em> with help from Halima Shaw and even further help from we'll read. It was edited by Matthew Collette engineered by Paul mousey and fact checked by Richard SEMA with help from Laura Bullard. I'm Sean Rama's from Noel king makes her debut as my cohost tomorrow. Don't miss it.