1 (2s):
There's a new bench where the TV show out that asks, what stands between us and Utopia. I'm talking about Brave New World, which is streaming right now, exclusively on peacock. The show is a futuristic visual Feast based on the 1932 Aldous Huxley novel about surveillance control and what were willing to sacrifice for happiness. The show takes place in 25:40 in the Utopia of New London where privacy family and monogamy are forbidden the powers that be considered their society perfect. But at What cost all episodes of Brave New World are available now on peacock the new streaming service from NBC Universal sign up at peacock tv.com to stream now.

1 (42s):
This episode is sponsored by peacock. NBC's new streaming service from classic movies like The Matrix to thousands of episodes of current and Timeless TV series like Friday Night Lights and Downton Abbey peacocks. Got it all but the really exciting part is that it's totally free. Yeah free download peacock and get the best of streaming and the best of TV you can watch for free and download for even more on your TV tablet or phone. Go to Peacock tv.com to download and start streaming now.

2 (1m 19s):
My name is Habib has ha I'm a journalist living and working in

3 (1m 22s):
Beirut

2 (1m 25s):
on Tuesday afternoon. I was driving home passing by the port of Beirut as I have done so many times before it was a bit of traffic and I had pulled over about 4 or 5 kilometers after the port on the highway and went to a pharmacy to buy some medicine when I was talking to the pharmacist.

1 (1m 48s):
Heard of like a popping noise and I immediately had when I heard I look to the skies because I thought that it could be another airstrike. You know, we've been through so many airstrikes in this country. We've been hit with so many tons of bombs that I thought it was coming from the air and then you know, I didn't see anything. So

2 (2m 7s):
I turn around that was the initial explosion and

1 (2m 11s):
then the much bigger mushroom cloud happened just within 10 seconds or so. after that My whole body Shook and it really rattled me to my bones.

2 (2m 26s):
It's hard to really describe what it's like it's kind of like if you were trying to imagine the biggest explosion and action movie an unreal feeling and even though I was several kilometers away at this point. I felt like the building next to me was falling down and everybody felt that everybody felt that the explosion was happening in their house. That's how it reverberated across the city. We experience probably The biggest explosion of our lives here in Lebanon and that's saying a lot, you know, we've seen bunker-busting bombs used by Israel. We've seen the assassination of the Prime Minister with huge amounts of tons of TNT, but this was something that was probably the closest thing to an atomic bomb people have seen in recent memory.

2 (3m 11s):
It was a mushroom cloud that enveloped the whole city of

3 (3m 16s):
Beirut.

2 (3m 22s):
So that was about 24 hours ago. Now hubby. Do you have any idea what exactly happened on Tuesday? We don't know a lot of things as usual in Lebanon. We're not really always know what's happening and it's very early. Obviously. This is still smoldering the area, but the the explosion happened at the Port of Beirut. Apparently there was a warehouse full of Highly flammable ammonium nitrate apparently, which is a very dangerous gas that Could have been used for fertilizer. We're not sure what its purpose was but it was being stored in the port for several years and there were disputes about how to handle it and it just sat there.

2 (4m 3s):
We're not really sure how the spark that Lit the explosion where that came from. Some people will say it was Foul Play and then that's where we play into. Everyone's favorite conspiracy. Some will say that it was a missile. Some will say that it was planted. It's hard to blame people for Jumping to conclusions. However, these conclusions will often reflect a certain political slant so there could be many explanations, but it could also definitely most definitely be a case of pure negligence. And I mean the whole Lebanese state is really a manifestation of negligence. It's also very tight country. There's a lot of space to put things people end up putting things in stacking things and ways, whether their buildings or or materials that are very dangerous.

2 (4m 49s):
We don't have the kind of regulations and Factors and and kind of bodies of oversight that that really do due diligence with these kind of things. We've seen gas stations blow up in the past and Lebanon we've seen factories catch on fire. Do you have any idea how many lives were lost and how many people were injured at this point so far? The estimate is something like 70 dead and four thousand injured and these intros thousand. Yes, and that's again. Initial estimates and a lot of people couldn't get to hospitals because hospitals were so overwhelmed three hospitals were actually destroyed in the vicinity of the port.

2 (5m 31s):
We have a struggling Healthcare System as it is but to lose three hospitals, that's a major blow. Some of the injuries were really bad. I heard of someone saw a girl lose a limb. I've heard of a man who died from bleeding in his hand because he couldn't reach the hospital in time. You just bled to death people were just walking around the streets and a Days full of glass and blood and the biggest devastating. The center of this was the port of Beirut the most erased there were dozens of warehouses. They've all been flattened. This is a really big blow to a country that relies on Imports 80% of our consumption is imported and the port is a Lifeline the port is a vein and artery of the economy in this country and and this country's economy is tanking is collapsing right now and when you take out the port which is how the country feeds itself basically Ethically we have the Strategic grain silos right there as a port there were totally eviscerated that was three months worth of bread making at a time when people are really hungry and going hungry in this country.

2 (6m 34s):
So I mean a worst thing couldn't have happened to a place that was

3 (6m 37s):
worse off.

2 (6m 47s):
How do you mean for people unfamiliar with what's going on in Lebanon right now? I mean everybody is saying this is the worst thing that they've ever seen and we've seen a lot of wars that a lot of Destruction this country. So that says a lot no one the the port of a country is as essential to its economy. So losing the port of Beirut is just crazy to imagine what kind of economic consequence that will have going forward losing three hospitals. Time of the pandemic when there are very few hospitals in the country and very few ICU beds being inundated with so many people the cost of medicine is very high.

2 (7m 28s):
So hospitals are running at a loss patients aren't able to pay for Health Care. The government is broke. The government owes the hospital's tons of money. So people urgently need any kind of health care support. They need food support just basic bread and wheat I'm living in Lebanon is so hard from the power outages to the sewage spilling into the sea to the air pollution from the diesel generators that are running all the time to support the fact that there's no electricity from the government. People are facing 50 percent unemployment. So, you know, it's hard to imagine. What else can we get hit with in this country.

2 (8m 11s):
I mean you take all of this economic collapse and environmental disaster. And you throw a kind of atomic bomb in the mix and so it's really unfortunate for people who live here to have to live that reality. They didn't choose that they were born in war and they never really seem to get a

3 (8m 28s):
break.

2 (8m 39s):
How things got so bad in Lebanon after the break. I'm Sean Rama's from its today

3 (8m 44s):
explained.

2 (9m 6s):
If you guys listen to the Michelle Obama podcast yet. Why not? Michelle Obama would listen to your podcast. I bet Michelle Obama listens to this podcast. Hey Michelle her hope is that this series can be a place to explore meaningful topics together and sort through so many of the questions were all trying to answer on our own lives. Perhaps most of all she hopes the podcast will help listeners open up new conversations and hard. Sessions with the people who matter most to them. That's how we can build more understanding and empathy for one another Michelle. Obama says she's going to be talking to friends including her brother her husband, but also actual friends like Conan O'Brien Valerie Jarrett Michele Norris.

2 (9m 53s):
Dr. Sharon Malone. Listen free at Spotify.com / the Michelle Obama podcast. It's the Michelle Obama. podcast

1 (10m 9s):
This episode is brought to you by peacock. The new streaming service from NBC Peacock is stacked with your favorite movies classic TV series and even live English Premier League soccer. But best of all peacock is completely free not free, but or free if it's just free there are tons of new episodes of current shows along with thousands of episodes of binge worthy Classics, whether you're revisiting your favorite episodes of 30. Rock or Parks and Rec or plowing through Law and Order SVU peacock is the solution to that age-old question. What should we watch tonight? You can also stay up to date on the latest with NBC Nightly News or keep the kids entertained with Curious George.

1 (10m 54s):
Maybe it's time to introduce the Next Generation to your old favorites like Shrek or Jurassic Park with peacock. You can watch it all for free download peacock and get the best of streaming and the best of TV you can watch. For free and upgrade for even more on your TV tablet or phone go to Peacock tv.com to download and start streaming now.

2 (11m 26s):
Habib tell me what the situation was in Lebanon before this explosion on Tuesday. Well, it's hard to imagine what it's like to go through a financial crisis of this scale and we've been through it many political crisis. We've been through Wars but this is a different kind of War where basically, you know, the money you have in the bank are just numbers on a screen and a financial crisis. Has three aspects in Lebanon, it's the banking crisis. We have a debt crisis, which is the country is one of the most indebted in the world which made the currency crisis. Lebanon's always been a very delicate balance, but it kind of feels like it's really getting torn apart like never before you say that this crisis lebanon's facing economically is sort of three-pronged.

2 (12m 16s):
There's this debt crisis a banking crisis and a currency crisis. Could we go Each of them starting with the debt crisis what's going on there? Yeah, so lebanon's one of the world's most indebted countries. It has a debt to GDP ratio of seem like a hundred eighty percent. So that means that the country doesn't generate nearly enough money to ever repay its debt and the debt keeps basically accumulating year after year to the point where it's like almost a hundred billion dollars today for a country that makes like 40 billion dollars at best per year. So, how do You pay that back the debt just keeps on growing and growing. Why is Lebanon in so much debt will live on as a country has been at War for so many years and had a massive Civil War that the Reconstruction costs were very high and the borrowing costs the interest rates for 11:00 on a country Lebanon to borrow money are also very high.

2 (13m 10s):
So actually the worst off you are as a country the more money you're going to spend in and borrowing money to get back because we don't trust you because you have bad credit. So we're like a country with bad credit. Emerging from a war with not much infrastructure. So to build that infrastructure you have to cruise so much more debt and that debt has been piling and piling and piling and that debt crisis has led to a banking crisis so that the banking crisis is linked to the debt crisis because the banks are the primary lender to the government. So when Lebanon emerged from the war nobody wanted to lend Lebanon money so Lebanon ended up taking a lot of money from local banks that charge really high interest rates because they didn't actually Have faith in this government.

2 (13m 53s):
So the government of community a lot of money. However, because the government wasn't really making money and because there wasn't really any industry in the country and people had no incentive to build any industry because the interest rates were so high in the bank, you know, so nothing was being built in the country and all of that money was being spent by the government because the banks were again loaning money to the government for interest rates to make their own profits. So the banks did very well in Lebanon for a long time. But as the political crises, you know mounted and the country people started to get nervous about the bank's ability to keep funding the government, but the government's ability to pay the bank's back and the bank started to restrict the amount of money.

2 (14m 38s):
You can withdraw because people started running to the bank and trying to withdraw all of their money. And so that means that now we don't really have access to the money that we put in the bank our deposits we can only Access a small allowance, which could be a few hundred bucks a month. And then I guess that brings us to the currency crisis. Yeah, not only are you not able to get cash from the bank very easily and any great amount but the cash that you do get is worth, you know, 20 cents to the dollar. So if you had a dollar in your pocket that's 20 cents you have now if you had a hundred bucks, that's 20 bucks. So it's a massive blow to anyone right and also applies to your salary like whatever you make every month, you know cut that Down by 80% add to this that when you go to the store to buy groceries, everything is like doubled and tripled the price.

2 (15m 29s):
So things like a bag of shredded cheese, you might you know by to make a quesadilla or something right that what used to cost like, you know, six or seven bucks and now it's the equivalent of like 20 or $30. All of these crises are inherently linked. How are people responding to this three-pronged crisis? Well, people are really really suffering. I mean if your salary gets cut by 80% and the prices of goods go up you kind of worry about how you're going to feed your children. So people have been selling items. There have been like some websites for people are selling like their household items even dishes I've seen for sale or bartering crime has gone up there was a viral video circulating in Lebanon of a guy who held up a pharmacy with a gun.

2 (16m 16s):
Buy diapers. I've never seen that. Let me look it up.

1 (16m 22s):
Oh, yeah, this is like the most passive robbery. You can imagine the guys holding a gun, but he seems pretty resigned. They're putting the diapers in the bag and he's slowly walking out. People are

2 (16m 39s):
really suffering on a daily distant just to get by just to get a meal about half of the country now is under the poverty level and of course the covid outbreak has definitely made everything worse because people can't get to their jobs. We've had a lot of lockdowns and we're going into another lockdown right now. There's lots of pressure in there was some suicides related to the final situation as well. So people are very anxious. They're very worried about their future about their children their - escape this country as they have always done for decades who have tried to escape Lebanon and that's why we have so many Lebanese living abroad and immigrants and refugees. So so yeah, it's definitely leading people to give up hope and it's also much harder for the poorest segments of Lebanese Society not only have the middle class become poor, but the

1 (17m 31s):
poor have become, you know, extremely impoverished. Late last year, we cover the protests in Lebanon

2 (17m 43s):
over this WhatsApp tax the Government tried to impose to some degree those protests were successful the tax didn't happen. The Prime Minister resigned after everything that's happened. Since do people still have hope they can affect change in the country or are people giving up. It's very difficult to dig yourself out of a deep hole, and I think it's also very difficult to Imagine a political system that has been in the making for decades and a lot of people rely on it and believe in it. And so the only the only solution to Lebanon is for the IMF to loan Lebanon more money and again, that means more debt so that the best solution would be for Lebanon to start generating income to start building Industries, but it doesn't really have the infrastructure for that because again, it's a war-torn country.

2 (18m 32s):
So another problem that Lebanon faces is that you know, Lebanon decisions are not Not made only in Lebanon the United States, you know back certain leaders in Lebanon Iran backs certain groups and Lebanon France Saudi Arabia. They all have their favorites. So Lebanon is kind of like a an international chess board where you know for decades now different countries have tried to support different sides. And so I think in some ways Lebanon is like a country that's unfinished. It's not really formed yet and that formation of any country I think revolves around one side winning. Inside emerging Victorious to lead a country usually at a great cost of violence.

2 (19m 13s):
We had all the violence in Lebanon, but nobody won so lebanon's a country of no winners and no losers which is this is kind of democratic because everybody gets a say or a lot of political parties get a say but nothing really gets done in the country. So it's really hard to imagine a way out of it other than getting more debt to try to restructure the debt, you know for the umpteenth time and passing on this. Get to the Next Generation. Although people are not really willing to lend Lebanon money either because they've seen so much money in the country disappear. So it's real tragedy. I think for the people who live here who just wake up every day and that's where they are. I mean, they didn't decide, you know on lending rates.

2 (19m 54s):
They didn't decide on taking out those loans. They're just average people who are now suffering under the worst economic crisis, so we could see violence wheel, you know, and at the same time there is violence on our border there is you know ongoing Between Hezbollah and Israel, and that's been going on for years that could flare up anytime. You know, that that has flared up in the past and two great Wars that have set the country back

3 (20m 16s):
further.

2 (20m 21s):
I think that people are trying to be creative the trying to start out small Industries to trying to go back to farming and 11 on his is the country in the Middle East that has you know, rivers and valleys and Greenery around us are a lot of deserts, you know, and so it's a very fertile Fertile Crescent is where farming started thousands of years ago. It's a beautiful country for tourism. You know, it's a gorgeous country for history. Every part of the world has been here. You've got Roman temples and look, Other than the ones in Rome preserved and at my heart goes out to people that are really at the margin of society right now because they're really suffering badly. And you know, I would just say if people want to help out, you know, they could visit the country they could try, you know to help people out here because again, it's a great country.

2 (21m 9s):
It's a Hidden Gem. Unfortunately politically it's not been able to get a break and a rest from the powers-that-be whether they're local. or or

3 (21m 20s):
foreign

2 (21m 30s):
I have even less all we need. I really appreciate it and we watch these videos in shock yesterday and I just really hope things get better. And if anything, I guess one positive outlook of this is that the world is paying attention right now. So I hope I hope good things come up that I hope so too. You know, I mean, some people have said this could be a catalyst for change, but I think people are so exhausted and worn down at this point. They just need all the help that they can

3 (21m 58s):
get.

2 (22m 8s):
Habib batata is an independent journalist and the founder of Beirut report.com where you can find and support his

3 (22m 15s):
work.