0 (0s):
Something is echoing across America in cities, townships, maybe even bigger backyards. A hollow sound can be heard alongside. Cheers. Cheers and triumphant screams. It is the sound of pickleball, which has in the blink of an eye become America's fastest growing sport. 5 million people in the United States now identify as pickles, but there are no mason jars here. Fredo, no. This is just paddles and wiffle balls back and forth, back and forth.

0 (47s):
Pickleball has the potential to bring this divided nation together if it doesn't tear us apart first. That's coming up on today. Explained

2 (1m 10s):
Today, explains Sean Ramos for a mediocre tennis player, but you can find me tearing up the courts in the District of Columbia a few nights a week. I started playing a lot more during the Covid 19 global pandemic. It was a safe outdoor activity and I had more time because no commute, no social obligations. You probably had a thing like tennis too. Around Thanksgiving 2020, I came out to California for a few months to hang out with my family and tried to keep the tennis up. I found a court nearby that wasn't too busy except for all the pickleball. There was one tennis court that was seldom occupied next to four pickleball courts that were almost always bumping.

2 (1m 51s):
I called it club pickleball because sometimes there were younger people listening to Post Malone and drinking white claws while playing. And if I'm being real here, some of the picks were sort of annoying. Their wiffle balls would constantly pop up over the barrier, excuse me, and interrupt our tennis. They'd sometimes walk through our court space to get to theirs instead of just going around to their own entrance. They were talking about how they couldn't taste anything on account of all their covid and, and one guy was always playing in a MAGA hat. Didn't they have any other hats at the hat store? Anyway, that was two years ago. Now we've got vaccines and, and more boosters than people want.

2 (2m 31s):
And pickleball is bigger than ever.

3 (2m 34s):
Covid is likely the reason that it's not football, baseball, basketball, hockey or soccer. That is the hottest sport in the country. The fastest growing by four is pickleball

4 (2m 46s):
These days. You can't swing a paddle without hitting a pickleball. Disciple

5 (2m 50s):
Once thought of as an old folks game. There are hundreds of tournaments annually, not to mention pro tours with athletes like Tom Brady and LeBron James. Each recently buying franchises in one of the sports upstart leagues.

2 (3m 3s):
Stephen Colbert had a celebrity pickleball tournament back in November on cbs and this past weekend there was a tournament in Las Vegas broadcast live on ABC in honor of pickle ball's. Biggest year yet. I went back to those exact courts in Santa Clarita, California earlier this week. The ones with Post Malone white claws and a lot of pickles having a great time to ask them what it is about this sport that's taken the country by storm. What it is about pickleball that seems to transcend all our divisions and actually unite Americans. And they all kind of gave me versions of the same answer. It's easy to learn and it's super social.

2 (3m 44s):
I heard it from Don. I think

6 (3m 45s):
What's easy to pick up and the community's really nice.

2 (3m 48s):
I heard it from Bruce.

7 (3m 49s):
It, it's much more social.

2 (3m 50s):
Yeah, I heard it from Seth.

8 (3m 52s):
It's just such a user group, friendly sport. You can kinda show up anywhere. If you're a better player with weaker players, you can still have fun.

2 (3m 59s):
I heard it from Sumi.

9 (4m 0s):
This is the only sport where anybody, unathletic, athletic, doesn't matter. Young and old can just jump on the court's smaller. It's a wiffle ball. All you have to do is hit the ball over the net,

2 (4m 12s):
Which is probably why 12 year old Emily was out there with a bunch of people her parents' age.

10 (4m 18s):
It's uneasy to understand game if you played tennis before, which I haven't.

2 (4m 24s):
Emily, the 12 year old was the only person I spoke to who wasn't a former tennis player.

9 (4m 30s):
I played D one tennis in college.

8 (4m 32s):
Yeah, tennis convert. Yeah.

7 (4m 35s):
I was in a racquetball in tennis and then my buddy brought me out here and it's just much more fun.

2 (4m 40s):
All these pickleball players picked up these paddles, gave up their rackets and never looked back. Jacqueline Rodman had no qualms about downsizing.

11 (4m 50s):
I, my tennis player, none of the tennis players wanted to come out and play. So I'm like, okay, I gotta get some exercise. So I came to the dark side.

2 (4m 58s):
Why do you say the dark side?

11 (4m 59s):
Well, tennis players are not thrilled with the fact that pickleball players have come in and take it overs. They're their courts and all the other things. But I have not touched a tennis racket since I started playing. I played for about 18 years. So

6 (5m 12s):
Have to have your second. And if another person just randomly showed up, typically you don't let them in. You probably don't even acknowledge 'em. Whereas pickleball, if you show up and you've never played before, chances are they're gonna put a paddle in your hand and start teaching you the game.

11 (5m 27s):
It just fits my lifestyle. I, I'm getting older and I'm not gonna be able to play tennis forever and this I can, you can play it into your eighties and nineties and I like it. I just like it

2 (5m 38s):
On the off chance. You have no idea what these pickleball people are talking about. We reached out to John Walters who wrote about the sport for none other than Sports Illustrated. He's also been playing for about 15 years. Pickleball looks

12 (5m 51s):
Like junior varsity tennis or at least miniaturized

2 (5m 54s):
Tennis. Miniaturized tennis or maybe supersized ping pong.

12 (5m 58s):
Well, I was gonna say it's basically somewhere between ping pong and tennis. It's not played with a table. It's played on a court, but it's faster than tennis because the court is smaller. You're not using a racket, you're using a paddle. The ball is not rubber, it's plastic more like a wiffle ball. So the ball doesn't travel as fast. The court is more compact. Most of the time you're gonna go to pickleball courts, you're gonna be watching doubles. People are gonna be playing doubles. They enjoy doubles. More people who've been playing a while will tell you there's an element of chess to pickleball. Good players are thinking a couple moves ahead when they hit a shot. There's two things about pickleball that a novice needs to know.

12 (6m 41s):
Number one, when you return the serve, the serving side has to let the ball bounce at least once. Number two, most important is an area called the kitchen. It's a line that goes across the court four feet from the net on either side. The kitchen is a spot that you are not allowed to enter unless the ball has bounced there first. And what that does is prevent players who are more athletic or taller to just come up to the net and smash it over. You have to stay back

2 (7m 13s):
And help me understand something I've never quite actually grasped. How does the scoring work in pickleball? I think people know that ping pong generally goes to 11 or 21 and tennis has the weird 15, 30, 40 love deuce situation. But what's going on in pickleball? Cause I'm always hearing these guys calling out three numbers.

13 (7m 32s):
3, 2, 1, 3, 5, 2. Here we go. Here we go. 6, 2, 2.

2 (7m 38s):
And you know when you have two opposing teams, usually there's just two numbers. Your score and their score.

12 (7m 43s):
I tell beginners that learning how to score pickleball is the hardest part of the game. And it feels like area codes are being, you're gonna hear 7, 7, 0, 2, 6, 3, 1, 3, 2, 3. Right? Okay, so there's three numbers. The first number is the score of the team that is serving. Okay? The second number is the score of the team that recce is receiving. By the way, games go to 11, you can only score when you're serving. First number is the server side. Second number is the receiving team score. Got it. The third number is whichever one of the two people on the serving side is serving. Because every time you have served both players on your team get to serve.

12 (8m 26s):
If you hear 6 31, that means the serving team has six points. The receiving team has three points, and the first of two people on that side is serving when he loses or she loses the point the second person serves. If they didn't score, if the receiving team scored the point, the next thing you'd hear is 6 32. Hmm. It's like volleyball. You only score when you're serving. Where

2 (8m 52s):
Did this quirky game come from? I, I believe it was an old person who invented

12 (8m 55s):
It too. Too old as relative, but yeah, I think they were in their fifties. It was two gentlemen, bill Bell and Joel Pritchard who were successful. Pritchard was actually a US congressman. The congressman invented pickleball. Well, he was a co-creator. Yes. This

14 (9m 13s):
Is Frank Pritchard. My father was Joel Pritchard, who was called the father of pickleball.

12 (9m 20s):
Their families had summer homes on Bainbridge Island, on the Puget Sound. As the story goes, it was a summer day. The guys had just come back from playing golf. They noticed their kids were bored.

14 (9m 31s):
I had just turned 13 and I was complaining my father that I didn't like being over there. I hated it because there was nothing to do. You know, all my school friends were in Seattle and I was over on Bainbridge and he said to me, well, when he was a kid over there, they used to make games up and I really snot. He said, yo, yeah, well then why don't you go make a game up?

12 (9m 52s):
The kids being teenagers just kept whining. So the dads basically looked in the shed, what's available,

14 (9m 58s):
And there was a little whiffle ball laying there in the grass that I had been given. My birthday had been just a few weeks before. So he said, okay. And he picked it up and we had a, a badminton court on the property. So he was up there messing around and about, I don't know, an hour later I walked up to the court and he and Bill Bell were, they strung this badminton net kind of at Waist Heights and were hitting that ball around with some really crude paddles.

12 (10m 26s):
They made up their own sport. It wasn't perfected on the spot. The following weekend they had a good friend named Barney MacCallum who they got involved and he was very creative and like, you know, inspired. And within, you know, a couple months they had hammered out rules. And I think within a year or two they built their first actual pickleball court and they tinkered with their sport

14 (10m 49s):
Pretty much from the beginning. It was fun and that's why it caught on. My mother, Joanne came up with the name Pickleball. You know, there's been a lot of controversy about that. You know, they, there's a myth that it was named for our dog pickles, but actually Pickles didn't arrive for another three years and she was named for the game. But my mother kind of followed crew. There's the airboat, the bbo, and then all the leftover rowers kind of get thrown into what was called the pickle boat. And my mother's thinking was, well this is kind of a combination of this game, that game. And it's like a pickleball, so we'll call it pickleball.

12 (11m 27s):
And in the Pacific Northwest pickle ball's been well known for decades. If you talk to someone who's in their forties or fifties, they were playing pickleball in PE in grade school if they lived in the Seattle area.

14 (11m 40s):
My wife and I were recently in Palm Springs and they're having a big tournament down there at Indian Wells and we got tickets and went on a Wednesday, you know, probably the slowest day they had and watched them matches and you know, this huge facility and people everywhere. And I just thought, my god, you know, I, I can't quite get my head around it to be honest.

2 (12m 5s):
What happened during the pandemic with this

12 (12m 7s):
Sport? I think what happened is people had free time. People were sick of being inside their homes and they had been hearing about this on a bubbling under the surface level. And when they saw other people playing it, they were like, Hey, that's, that's something I think I can do. And they were right. And it's also very social, so you're like, Hey, there's that group that plays at four o'clock in the park near me. People just started showing up to courts even if they didn't know anybody or maybe knew one other person and they were getting in games and suddenly now they had their little pickleball group of friends who welcomed you. And what's fun is, I, I experienced this in my own little world here. You get different personalities.

12 (12m 48s):
Like there's that really competitive person, there's that person like who loses and maybe star storms off. But it's sort of like being part of a a small little family. And I think people need that. It's an underrated aspect of pickleball. It does provide community,

2 (13m 4s):
Young, old, black, white, liberal, conservative, they're all on the pickleball courts

12 (13m 10s):
Together. They all are. So I think that's a wonderful thing. Getting back to your pickleball brings the country together. You're hanging out with people you might not hang out with normally. There's nothing wrong with that.

0 (13m 23s):
There's nothing wrong with that. But in a minute we'll hear about some folks who aren't on board with pickleball you are listening to today explained.

2 (13m 44s):
Hey everyone, Sean putting on my, you know, public radio p b s hat right now to remind you that today explain comes to you year round. In part thanks to support from generous listeners, just like you, access to trustworthy information and explanations of complex ideas and issues is a core part of our mission at Vox. And you can support that mission right now by giving. This month Vox is aiming to add 3000 contributors to the community of people supporting our journalism to keep our explanatory journalism free for all people. Financial gifts directly support everything Vox does.

2 (14m 26s):
You can make a gift@vox.com. Give today to help us reach our goal of 3000 contributors this month. There's also a link in the show notes of this very episode you're listening to right now. Thank you so much for supporting Vox.

15 (14m 43s):
Okay, so we'll open the champagne. So when you're in sommelier school, they teach you that the pop shouldn't be no louder than a nun's fart.

16 (14m 55s):
A pop that's no louder than a nun's fart. That's the sound. That means there's gonna be a celebration that's

17 (15m 1s):
Right around the world. December is often party time and we here at Gastropod are celebrating in style.

16 (15m 6s):
We've got a two-part special mini-series for you this month with the stories behind two of these special occasion treats, caviar and of course champagne. Castro

17 (15m 16s):
Butt is the podcast that looks at food through the lens of science and history. So we are going to get to the bottom of why the eggs from a massive dinosaur looking freshwater fish are one of the most expensive foods in the world. And

16 (15m 27s):
Why champagne is in a different league to other fizzy wines like kava and Prosecco.

17 (15m 32s):
We also discover why Champaigns bubbles were originally considered a flaw and how to give a sturgeon an ultrasound.

16 (15m 38s):
Come join the party, find gastropod and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

18 (15m 44s):
Yeah, let introduce you to this thing called pickleball where you use these paddles and then no for size with ball. If you've never believe you think your pickleball just pick ball once you start playing it. It's highly enjoyable

2 (15m 56s):
Today. Explain. We're back. John Walters sports writer at Sports Illustrated has been telling us how pickleball is bringing Americans together to get away from their screens and unite on the pickleball court. But John indulge me here and and help me understand how pickleball is tearing us apart, starting with the noise, the noise of the pickleball black, which has been upsetting some communities in this country.

12 (16m 23s):
It has been, yes. I think half of that is yes, it's a different sound that can be initially a little discordant and a half of it is, it's not something I am used to so I don't like it when you hear pickleball, first of all because the court is smaller, the ball gets hit more often than if you were playing tennis for example. So there's a different rhythm to it then because it's plastic on basically fiberglass. There's a thwacking sound when you hit a pickleball you get used to it very quickly. If you're playing, you barely notice it. But if you maybe are on the, in the backyard next to a pickleball court, yeah it's probably a little annoying.

12 (17m 5s):
It's something you have to get used to. There are plenty of sounds in this world that we can all agree maybe we don't like the motorcycle going down a, a road near us or a a leaf blower. Pickleball is nowhere near as annoying to me as those two sounds. But yeah, compared to tennis it's louder.

2 (17m 25s):
I'm glad you brought up tennis John, because another issue here is territory is the use of public space. Tennis players are mad that the pickle ballers are encroaching on their courts.

19 (17m 37s):
The clash happening on courts around San Diego pitting tennis players against pickleball players

20 (17m 42s):
And both use the tennis courts and both are fighting for

2 (17m 45s):
Space basketball. Players are mad that the pickle ballers are encroaching on their courts. The

21 (17m 49s):
71 year old Colorado man is facing a felony charge. His crime allegedly using a permanent marker to draw on a basketball court. He was

22 (17m 58s):
Only attempting to help the pickleball

21 (18m 0s):
Community. He's an avid player.

2 (18m 2s):
It feels like pickleball has given rise to this new level of civic engagement over how our public spaces are

12 (18m 9s):
Used. Yes, and I would just say nothing lasts forever. I mean the easiest sports analogy to use here is snowboarding.

23 (18m 20s):
Ski hill operators refuse to let anyone with a snowboard onto the chairlift so they have to hike to the top of the mountain and then find a secluded ski trail where they won't get caught.

12 (18m 31s):
It's not that somebody forced people to to ride snowboards and they took over the slopes. It's that a lot of people found that they enjoyed snowboarding more than skiing and they happen to use the same turf to do it. I

24 (18m 46s):
Think the major problem with the snowboards is that they run into people you know they can't see behind them. And when you get skiers and snowboarders together on a run, you're looking for trouble.

12 (18m 55s):
They had to learn to live with each other because the people who run mountains realized that they were sacrificing revenue by not making the mountains available to snowboarders where there was a gigantic interest in snowboarding. Well the interest in pickleball compared to tennis in terms of new players is overwhelming. So if you run a private tennis club, you have a choice. You can either alienate a bunch of potential customers or you can follow where the market is taking you. I don't see any place where people wanna play tennis that they cannot play tennis. In my own little community, there were 10 tennis courts and no pickleball courts.

12 (19m 38s):
They took out two tennis courts to create eight pickleball courts cuz one pickleball court equals four tennis courts. There's still empty tennis courts. Every single time I go down there, my experience is that people who wanna play tennis, who wanna play basketball still have plenty of places to play, but there's a new kid on the block and that kid is very popular and that creates some resentment

25 (20m 1s):
Step.

12 (20m 9s):
You're

2 (20m 9s):
Bringing me, I think to my third negative phenomena associated with the rise of pickleball in the United States, but it's not so clearly negative to me, but it's the money. It really feels like money is flooding into this game. Major

26 (20m 25s):
League money is following the fans as professional. Pickleball takes its swing

12 (20m 31s):
First you get the interest. The next thing you know, you have people who are entrepreneurial who realize, hey, there's a tremendous demand and there's not enough supply. So I'm gonna be the guy who exploits this market. All of a sudden people wanna play pickleball, but hey, you need a paddle? Hey, you need balls. Hey you need a net. There's over 300 pickleball paddle manufacturers right now. They're all competing for that space, right? Eventually there's gonna be fewer, but the money is simply a result of someone realizing there's demand and I can make some money off that demand.

2 (21m 9s):
But we're not just talking about paddles here, we're talking about espn, we're talking about the Olympics.

19 (21m 14s):
A sport that can be played by all ages and doesn't require much money to get started is receiving public support to become a part of the Olympics.

12 (21m 21s):
We're

2 (21m 22s):
Talking about LeBron James, maybe Tom Brady. Like give us a sense of the scale of what's going on here.

12 (21m 28s):
It's a little like Bitcoin. I think the idea that people are gonna be watching pickleball on TV in great numbers is folly. It's just not gonna happen. The pickleball boom of right about now is to me very similar to the running boom of the 1970s, which didn't translate into people watching marathons on tv, but it did translate into a lot more people running marathons. Hmm. And I think this is where all the geniuses have it wrong in terms of television. This is mostly a white upper middle class to affluent sport at this stage. These are the people making decisions at the network level. But the Dallas Cowboys played the New York Giants on Thanksgiving day and 42 million Americans watched a regular season football game.

12 (22m 15s):
Hmm. Pickleball would do well to get one 100th of that audience with its greatest event. So let's not kid ourselves about pickleball ever being a big deal. And if someone wants to like use these words against me in two years, I'll happily own up to it. But I think the pickleball boom is going to be a lot like the running boom. There'll be tons of people wanting to play. I don't think it'll translate into a great spectator sport.

2 (22m 37s):
You mean Stephen Colbert's celebrity pickleball tournament isn't gonna be a game changer.

27 (22m 42s):
Hello everybody, I'm Stephen Colbert and welcome to Pickled. We're here at Sherwood Country Club in beautiful Thousand Oaks, California. A city where they count their trees.

12 (22m 53s):
I don't think so. I think it'll be like the pet rock fad. Not in terms of playing, but in terms of being the next American idol. It's not gonna be dancing with the stars. It just, to me doesn't have that aspect of it. And I'll be happy to go out and play pickleball for three hours right now and I'll be enjoying it, but I don't wanna watch it for three hours. I bang the drum for pickleball being played at the grade school, middle school and high school level for a number of reasons because I think that's the generation who, us older folks are worried are spending way too much time indoors and way too much time on screens. And I think pickleball is something that doesn't leave the short kid or the relatively uncoordinated kid out.

12 (23m 39s):
So give pickleball the chance to worm its way into just regular people's lives. And I think they're gonna enjoy it. They're gonna have fun. It's very social. You get a sense of community with people instantly that you don't get in almost any other aspect of life right now. I think those are all healthy things.

2 (24m 2s):
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Abha cut the music. I gotta play one more thing. From my visit to the pickleball courts this week, I was talking to Seth Chesky about this beef tennis players like me have maybe had with picks like him, you're encroaching on our space, you're a little inconsiderate, whatever. And he dropped a bomber.

8 (24m 20s):
And even at this park, this tennis court here is gonna be converted to four more pickleball courts right here. Yeah.

2 (24m 26s):
So you're saying there's not gonna be a tennis court here?

8 (24m 28s):
Not at this park from what I understand. From what I've heard. And but as you can see, there are one, there's 1, 2, 3, 4 pickleball courts going, you know, four people each. So 16 people playing pickleball and no one playing tennis right now.

2 (24m 45s):
It's a done deal. The court I was worried about is apparently already on the chopping block. I, I can't argue with math if, if more people are getting utility out of it, take my court. See y'all on the pickleball courts.

0 (25m 0s):
Sorry Sean. Today's show was produced by Abishai Artsy, edited by Matthew Collette. Fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Paul Robert Bosy and AEM Shapiro you're listening to today, explain the podcast is taking a bit of a holiday back on the 27th of December, but you can still find us on the radio. Yo.