2 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from a new show called made to fail in an unprecedented era of economic uncertainty. Amidst a Health crisis and National Reckoning on Race. We're all asking. What's the way forward but to answer that we need to know how we got here made to fail highlights the way current policies and institutions have failed Americans across the country in the end. It turns out they weren't by accident. They were by Design. Are you shocked get the full story listen to made to I fail wherever you get your podcasts that is made to fail. That's the name of the podcast Google's free tools are designed to help millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working.

2 (43s):
And right. Now these businesses could use our help support the places near You by booking an appointment buying a gift card writing a review more ordering takeout all With a Little Help from

3 (53s):
Google.

2 (60s):
What If instead of having an election Donald Trump just poisoned Joe Biden and stayed in power forever, that'd be insane right that just be like Russia Russia's leading opposition figure was poisoned with the military nerve agent Nova joke Alexei navalny has been fighting for his life in a medically induced coma here in Berlin after falling ill in Siberia last month Any McKinnon has been covering Russia's latest poisoning for foreign policy and she's here to help us understand why Russia, you know keeps apparently poisoning people. So Alexei navalny has been described as one of Putin's most feared foes.

2 (1m 42s):
He is the most prominent Russian opposition politician. He's very charismatic. He's handsome. He's a great talker corruption in Russia and not became something like, you know white collar crime us. Hunting they know just corrupt. They involved in murders and tortures main focal point of his campaigning has been anti-corruption which has proven to be immensely effective in the country like Russia where corruption is just rampant. How corrupt do you think is blooded murder Putin, he's Czar of corruption. He is the basement of this corruption.

2 (2m 23s):
And I think it was 2011. He set up this foundation called anti-corruption foundation and it does what it says on the tin. It campaigns against corruption, but they also have basically a kind of giant team of investigative journalists and they run these huge investigations into some of the most high-profile Russian politicians in the country and most famously, I think in 2017. They went after who's been the Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev Dmitry Medvedev. In German history book she president Tracy and it's a fantastic kind of yarn all begins with an email address, which a private email address used by Medvedev was hacked and then the contents of it was leaked online and it didn't reveal anything to Saucier salacious just that he's a bit of a nerd and has a real penchant for buying gadgets online and buying sneakers.

2 (3m 11s):
Godzilla is internet magazine. And so there is a hundred bucks a pair of night air with these bright Souls on them, and it was through that they were able to trace The delivery address and the delivery address revealed properties and how he had funneled, you know, an alleged billion dollars that's billion with a be in bribes through a network of Foundations and companies to buy these luxurious properties. Alexei navalny is anti-corruption group actually flew drones with cameras over the walls of Dmitry medvedev's 45,000 square foot Mountain Chalet in Sochi. It was Vineyards. It was this Gigantic Country House Country House complete with its own large man-made lake.

2 (3m 55s):
These giant houses has 17th century Villa in Tuscany. Just like sprawling complexes. There was also this 30,000 square foot mansion in the Moscow suburbs. It also had its own Lake different shape and in one of them in his country home. It's also got a modest little house built specifically for mr. Medvedev's Ducks. There was a teeny little house on the pond for ducks the duck house. And so that became a real focal point of the investigation this little duck house. And how did the Russian people react to the duck house? I mean not well Russian Riot police broke up an anti-government protests on what was a day of demonstrations across Russia the idea that you know, your hospitals in your schools are drastically short on funds and falling into disrepair and your prime minister has a cozy little house for his ducks.

2 (4m 51s):
Go down too. Well with the electorate Moscow police arrested more than 700 people in the city alone. They included the opposition leader Alexei navalny who's called for the demonstrations. These were some of the largest protests Russia has seen for several years President Putin still enjoys strong support, but he can't take that for granted navalny has hammered on time and time again at this real Achilles heel of the Kremlin which is corruption. And that's the one thing I think that you know, If I was Putin, I would realize that's what is going to get the public and the voters annoyed at him and I imagine that brings us to Alexei navalny being poisoned in late August what exactly happened so navalny was in in Siberia in this city tomsk campaigning for local politicians.

2 (5m 41s):
There's local elections coming up in Russia and navalny was in town campaigning on behalf of opposition politicians and very chillingly on the E. Is of the day when he was poisoned, he was a campaign event and someone asks him in. This is the question of Ali has been asked many times over the years and many people asked about him which is how come you're still able to do this, you know, so many opposition politicians have either been run out of the country or have been killed. How is it that in more than a decade of being a major thorn in the side of the Kremlin basically, how is he still alive after he was asked this question navalny said if they kill me it would just could create more problems for those in power and that was always the received wisdom about navalny that he just had basically become too big to fail his family.

2 (6m 29s):
His success were seen as his protector for a long time until it wasn't The next morning navalny is getting ready to fly back to Moscow from tomsk and he was in the airport and we've been able to piece together what happened that morning based on the accounts of his staff who were traveling with him, but also people in the airport, right? He's a famous guy where he goes people want selfies. They take pictures, they post on Instagram and so he arrives at the airport early in the morning. He consumes nothing all morning except for a cup of tea from the airport cafe and shortly after he bored. Flight back to Moscow he starts to feel unwell, and he goes to the bathroom and according to people in the flight.

2 (7m 12s):
He's in there for a really long time the queue starts to form and then the cabin crew are suddenly made aware that somebody on the flight is ill and they ask that all time famous question that you see in the movies is anyone a doctor and navalny is on the floor of the back of the plane, you know, there's a whole group of people have gathered around him trying to keep him awake. Keep him conscious and people took videos where you can just hear navalny letting out these just animal screams. He's long low screams of pain. So the flight is redirected to our mosque another city in Siberia where he is taken off in an ambulance and he's placed an artificial coma and doctors.

2 (7m 60s):
There are pretty quick to deny that he's been poisoned Russian doctors had initially suggested that his condition might be the result of low blood sugar. But of course given the long and storied history of Kremlin opponents being poisoned. Everyone pretty quickly begins to suspect that. That's what's going on. In Siberia had refused to lend of only seek treatment abroad and wouldn't let his wife see him but after an international uproar the voice of Russia's opposition was flown to a Berlin hospital where doctors pretty quickly realize they're contending with something major and call in the Army's chemical weapons experts according to the German government navalny was attacked with a deadly nerve agent from the novichok group.

2 (8m 44s):
Our chalk was used to poison the former Russian spies the case could pile and it's daughter in the UK. I can 2018 and the discovery that it was not a chalk was really a turning point because Nava talk is just not something that you can just go to the hardware store and jerry-rigged and your kitchen into a potentially lethal poison. Like this is It's a chemical nerve agent, you know, very few people are going to have access to this and so it just escalated the situation dramatically German officials have already threatened possible sanctions against Russia over the poisoning the future of a multi-billion Euro Joy. German Russian gas pipeline now in doubt Germany and its allies are calling on the Kremlin to come up with some

3 (9m 25s):
answers.

2 (9m 32s):
More with Amy in a

3 (9m 33s):
minute.

2 (9m 41s):
I didn't eat any Ben and Jerry's for lunch today, but that didn't change the fact that support for the show comes from the new Ben & Jerry's podcast and in collaboration with Vox creative called who we are and it's all about how exactly the country got to where it is right now how it's going to figure its way out of the little bit of a an identity crisis. It's got going on then and then what the future looks like it's hosted by ACLU legal. Director Jeffrey Robinson and Peabody award-winning journalist Carvel Wallace. They're going to guide you through the complicated history of the past to understand how we got to the present and what the future looks like.

2 (10m 23s):
They're going to talk political origins of voter suppression. They're going to talk about the racial wealth Gap they're going to talk about much more and they're going to offer opportunities for you to be a part of progress the show Launches on October 15th who we are new. Loads every Tuesday after that listen And subscribe wherever you listen And

3 (10m 42s):
subscribe.

2 (10m 47s):
Consumers for safe CBD wants to know what's in your CBD in a recent report to Congress the FDA found that a sampling of CBD products. They tested were mislabeled some of them contains more than 120 percent of the CBD amount listed ends nearly 20 products contained th see the ingredient that can cause psychoactive effects as well consumers for safe. CBD is calling on the FDA to regulate the CBD Market to protect consumers from To harms posed by untested products though. The FDA has issued warnings. This is not deterred some vendors for making sweeping Health claims about their products ability to treat a wide range of serious medical conditions.

2 (11m 31s):
Remember just because CBD products are on grocery store shelves does not mean they're risk-free be smart and stay healthy learn more about consumers for safe CBD at for safe. CBD dot-org. That's the number four. or sa Fe CBD Dot o-- r-- g-- Amy it occurs to me and I don't know, you know everyone else who consumes news that Alexei navalny is not the first notable Russian to be poisoned. It's a rally off a list. I mean some of the so some of the most famous ones are Georgi Markov Anna politkovskaya Alexander litvinenko Alexei navalny last year Oksana Valley this year what Amir?

2 (12m 16s):
Khusrau Mirza? Okay, screw you pal. Dr. Julius creep all is there like a classic Russia poisoning story a real Caper, so Most famous one because of its just see a trickle James Bond twist was the poisoning of the Bulgarian dissident Yogi, Markov and London in 1978, then they talk about this in Breaking Bad back in the late 70s. Ricin was used to assassinate a Bulgarian journalist. KGB modify the tip of an umbrella to inject a tiny pellet into the man's leg and we're talking about an amount not much bigger than the head of a pin and and he died from this umbrella stabbed. Oh, yes. Why so much poison Amy, so I think there's three big reasons why we see so many poisonings traced back to Russia.

2 (13m 2s):
I think the first one, you know, this is the chilling effect of it, you know, what a painful and horrible way to die and the even if you don't die, you will live in fear of knowing, you know, will it happen again one very well-known Russian opposition politician Garry Kasparov, his bodyguards carry bottles of water and pre-prepared meals with him everywhere he goes He's so terrified about being poisoned as so many of his former colleagues have been so it's the Fear Factor is certainly one thing and another is just the fact that they have it lying around like this. The story of poisonings goes back to basically the founding of the Soviet Union like right at the time of the Soviet Union was created when an order for there to be the creation of a lab which would formulate these very discreet but very deadly poisons and they just have these tools at their disposal right you work with with what you're given and I think the third major factor is plausible deniability that there's this Sly wink and a nod of saying okay clearly it was asked but, you know prove it, you know, you saw that with the litvinenko case where it was a shocking murder of a prominent Russian dissident seen here dying in his hospital bed.

2 (14m 12s):
Now a British investigation has found that the two Russian secret agents accused of the murder quote probably acted with the approval of Russian President Vladimir Putin. Ten years went by before a British inquiry finally concluded that he was poisoned at the hand of the Russian State and that likely Putin would have signed off on the operation and he was poisoned with polonium 210 in a radioactive agent. Like it doesn't just that's just not lying around and they had still took them a decade to conclude that this was the Russian state. So plausible deniability is the Cornerstone of how Russia operates in the world, especially abroad I think that's a big part of why this happens.

2 (14m 52s):
But in the case of navalny it's not clear yet whether we're actually going to find out who did this and then even if there is a transparent investigation to this, which I think is highly unlikely the best case scenarios, you might find out, you know, the person who dropped it in his tea or however, it was delivered. But what is difficult to know is who exactly ordered it you're saying once again, it'll be nearly impossible to prove Vladimir Putin himself signed off on this and ordered the poisoning of his chief political rival. I think it's Kasem navalny given that he is the country's most famous opposition politician and the novichok was used. I think it's highly unlikely that somebody would have had the audacity to try and pull this off without Putin's explicit consent.

2 (15m 38s):
But even if he didn't agree to this he is still in indirectly very responsible because he has presided over a system where for two decades now, it has been possible to to Target to harm and to kill opposition politicians. And human rights activists and journalists and more often than not with impunity and it's certainly not beyond the realm of doubt that Vladimir Putin ex KGB officer would resort to poisoning his opposition. It's definitely within his wheelhouse. I mean, he is firmly a KGB guy. It is the Cornerstone of his identity and the people he surrounds himself with our If not former KGB or FSB officers, there are Security Services.

2 (16m 20s):
Like those are his those are his people there's even a name for them in Russian is hello. Vicky is the people who come from the power structures the military from the FSB from the intelligence agencies that is very much vitamin Putin's world and the turf which he's most comfortable in how does this play out for Putin and his government at home an integral part to these operations is disinformation is what's you know, what somebody wants described as a firehose of falsehood. So things like Russia invades eastern Ukraine when they illegally annexed Crimea, you know, when a Russian missile shot down flight mh17 over eastern Ukraine when they poison circus group Al all of these kind of Nefarious activities that do overseas and even domestically there's never never try and persuade the public both at home and abroad of a single narrative.

2 (17m 7s):
There's not propaganda, which says this didn't happen. This is what happened. They just pump out enough sludge enough confusing and contradicting. Asians of what happened that eventually the goal is that people just get bored and give up but they can't you know, and you saw that you kind of saw the beginnings of that was known in the valley poisoning that oh, was it a metabolic thing or was his blood sugar or maybe it was this or some suggestion that he may have had substance-abuse issues and they're not trying to convince people of any one Theory but just enough so that people kind of can throw up their arms and just say who knows and that's the overarching goal in response to operations like this. Does this one feel Different though or is it just you know going to be the latest in a long line of crimes that will go unpunished.

2 (17m 51s):
This does feel different. Like I think we are going to look back and see the poisoning of navalny as a watershed moment as a as one of several major turning points in the nature of the modern Russian regime under Putin other poisons, which have been tried back to the Russian State have been against people perceived as defectors and Putin is known to have a real particular. A deep hatred for defectors. He prizes loyalty above pretty much anything else and so it you know, it's perverse to say but it kind of made sense of those were the kind of people who would go after and much as he is deeply afraid of navalny.

2 (18m 31s):
It's is another bridge to go after your domestic opposition politicians and with such a lethal chemical weapon as novichok German officials have already threatened possible sanctions against Russia over the poisoning. Future of a multi-billion Euro joined German Russian gas pipeline now in doubt Germany and its allies are calling on the Kremlin to come up with some answers. I do not envy Angela Merkel right now. She's gonna have to be the one to decide where to go next mean Germany European Union has already sanctioned Russia for their activities in Ukraine. There has been growing calls in Germany for Angela Merkel to Halt the construction of Nord stream 2, which is a gas pipeline which runs from Russia to Germany and it's like 90% complete already it's almost there.

2 (19m 18s):
But to use that as leverage would of course be significant major but a huge loss for the German companies involved as well. So I think that's a big question going forward. It's whether that pipeline is going to take a hit because of this poisoning, doesn't it? Just seem a little crazy. Maybe it doesn't seem crazy to you because you covered this but I think to a lot of people it seems just kind of been saying that Russia gets to poison. Whomever they please. Yeah, it's not It's crazy that Russia gets to invade eastern Ukraine. It's crazy that Russia defacto occupies twenty percent of the country of Georgia. It's crazy that they got to continually violate International norms and also the human rights of their population of you know through epic epic corruption like we discussed at the start that the the Russian population are not seeing The Spoils of the well have their country in the way that they should because it gives pilfered off into the mountains.

2 (20m 13s):
And houses for ducks and what about Alexei navalny? So he has emerged from his artificial coma his condition is has been described as critical but stable and he's responsive to doctors and I think it just remains to be seen whether this will leave any lasting damage. Well, it's silence him. I highly doubt that. He's been through so much already. I feel like navalny is committed to his cause that he will keep going.

2 (20m 56s):
Amy McKinnon she's a staff writer at foreign policy. You can find and support her work at foreign policy.com. I'm Sean Rama's firm. This is today.

3 (21m 6s):
Explain.

2 (21m 27s):
From director Jay roach and writer Paul Reddick comes Coastal Elites a socially distance satire and five comedic confessions about coping with the new abnormal the all-new 75-minute special Stars, Emmy Grammy and Tony winner Bette Midler Golden Globe nominee Kaitlyn Dever Emmy nominee Dan Levy, Emmy and Golden Globe winner, Sarah Paulson and Emmy and Golden Globe nominee Issa Rae has five characters breaking down and breaking through as they grapple with. Politics and the pandemic when the shutdown forces these distinct and impassioned people with varying points of view across the United States to cope and isolation. They react with frustration hilarity and introspection Coastal Elites premieres Saturday, September 12th at 8 p.m.

2 (22m 13s):
On HBO and streaming on HBO Max. Hi, I'm Avery troubleman and I'm the new host of the cut podcast from New York Magazine and the VOX media podcast Network every Wednesday the cut editorial team and I will explore surprising provocative ideas about style self culture and Power in our first episode looking at what it means to be optimistic in 2020. You can listen And subscribe to the cut now on Apple podcast or wherever you listen.