0 (1s):
Hello, Vox listeners. My name is Erin Lamor and I'm one of the hosts of the long-form podcast. The newest addition, the Vox and the Vox media podcast network. We've been doing the show for over nine years. We've gotten to talk to people like George Saunders, Terry Gross, Tallahassee coats, and really tried to explore what it means to be a writer or a journalist today in 2021. We're also expanding to feature documentarians, podcasters, whoever we find interesting. So you can catch up on long-form now at vox.com/long form or in the podcast app of your choice.

0 (40s):
S this morning we reached out to Widlore

1 (55s):
Marin CU. He's the editor in chief of a news organization called I Yeboah post in Port-au-Prince Haiti.

2 (1m 3s):
Well, right now I am not in hiding, but I'm not at night place because since Wednesday, I think as a precautionary measure, I should not be living at my place. It's very difficult and murky situation. And there is the less of one known, and we know that the in Haiti insecurity is a big issue. And during a time where there is a vacuum in leadership, anything can happen

3 (1m 37s):
Tonight. The nation of Haiti is reeling after the assassination of its president inside his home. Last Wednesday at 1:00 AM, precisely according to the prime minister of Haiti, a commando of foreign individuals, including Colombians, and at least two Haitian Americans entered the residence of the president of <inaudible>. The attackers seen here approaching the president's residence in trucks, apparently pretended to be agents of the us drug enforcement administration, because we understand early in the morning, the president was in his bed with his wife. And two of his children was in the house as well.

3 (2m 21s):
The commandos entered the house, killed the president and his wife. And then the eye silence. I left the place feeling trapped right after the attack for the surfaces HTN fire. Yes. And it's mourning for the area and listened to shots fired. But the next of questions we meant with regard to what happened, precisely for instance, one of the Haitian American could be here in the recording, screaming.

3 (3m 10s):
This is <inaudible>. There is a lot of details. We don't know what we know is the relationship between Haiti and the U S what we know is the power. For instance, the DEA came, I think a couple of years back to arrest an elected Senator. His name is Giphy. Lee was implicated in drug trafficking. So he's in a prison cell in the U S right now. And we know since the attack that at least one of the assailants of the alleged assailants walked in the past for the DEA, but he was not actively working at the time.

3 (3m 56s):
So he was not conducting any emission for the DEA, but these lengths to the DEA, you know, raised more questions, chief among them is how a group of allegedly 28 people could conduct such and horrific act. How did they enter the residence of their president? And we are not seeing any wounds from the security detail of the president.

1 (4m 31s):
What do we know at this point about who's behind this assassination? We

3 (4m 36s):
Have several narratives being put forward. One is the group of people will kill. The president was guided by at least one guy. His name is Emmanuel the Sonos

4 (4m 53s):
In a press conference. Sunday Haiti's chief of police announced the arrest of 63 year old Haitian-American Christian and manual sat on for as a lead role and orchestrating last week's killing of the country's president. Jovenel MOEYS

3 (5m 7s):
Has deep ties to Florida. He presented himself as a doctor who has like a different organizations in Haiti and in the Dominican Republic,

5 (5m 18s):
Do not every Haitian has a passport. You know why? Because they get ready to leave the country.

3 (5m 24s):
He filed for bankruptcy in 2013 in it's only the clear how someone like that could organize such a plot where, you know, lots of people were being paid thousands of us dollars. So when the authorities present these gentlemen, as the mastermind, along with two names, orders, most people were skeptical and most people were still skeptical that he was in fact, the mastermind, but we know is this gentleman, he had political ambitions,

5 (6m 3s):
But I want to tell them something, there is a hope community. Not that hope that man, that people have been offered to them, I will be in hope to them.

3 (6m 11s):
And it's actually to be the leader of Haiti and the way he spoke to the people who were close to him. And, and apparently he planned to run for election this year, but these same people, we were helping him and putting, you know, together and economic plan. They will tell you that they are shocked and they are very, very skeptical that he would sign up for an operation to actually kill the president. So there is this narrative in one side, but in the other side, you have the second narrative, which is being put forward by civil society, by folks in their position saying that actually the president was killed by someone or by his security people.

1 (7m 3s):
So who's empowered. Now that's

3 (7m 5s):
The million dollar question. And, and I think this is the second storm that is coming to Haiti, quite frankly, because right after the attacks, a man named <inaudible> who resigned two days before, as prime minister feeling to take the world and conduct the affairs of, of the government, Thermo

6 (7m 28s):
Was assassinated prime minister, Claude, Joseph announced a 15 day state of siege, but a new prime minister appointed by Maurice RL. Henry was supposed to have taken over that very day. And he says, he's the rightful of ruler. So right

3 (7m 43s):
Now both men claimed the right to run the country. But adding to that, you have the Senate, which has 10 elected officials. And this is very important. These 10 elected officials are the only elected officials in Haiti. Right now you should have hundreds, but because the last president, the past president was killed, did not organize elections on time. So you just have these 10 senators as people who were elected in Haiti. So they get together and they selected one of the presidents of the Senate right now. His name is Alan Bell to be the next president of Haiti.

3 (8m 30s):
You can see the complicated situation that arise, and there is no clear answer. How

1 (8m 36s):
Is this going to be resolved in the, in the coming days and weeks? Do you have any idea?

3 (8m 41s):
One constitutional lawyer I talked to is telling me that the best way to resolve this is to make sure that, you know, different political actors get together, including the Senate, including civil society, including, you know, different stakeholders. We would have a say in this matter to have a basic common ground agreements so they can choose who should run the country. But at the same time, the international community is stepping in to, you know, to have a say in this method, for instance, the head of the UN in Haiti S go in the public to say that the actual by minister closure Zeff should be running the country or the wait until the next election

2 (9m 29s):
Prime minister Joe's death is, is the prime minister. And he used her article 1 49 of the, of the current constitution, the 1987 constitution. But the problem

3 (9m 50s):
Is the first of all, he resigned. Second of all, he's a very disputed figure, and it's very hard to know how you will have people come together and participate in election with a crude Joseph as prime minister.

1 (10m 6s):
And in the meantime, Haitian officials last week asked the United States to send troops to the island to help keep the peace doesn't seem like president Biden was terribly into the idea. What's the latest on that request. And what we do

3 (10m 22s):
Know is effectively the Haitian government ask the UN and in the U S two send troops to protect key infrastructures. And, and I apparently to also give some help in the next election, but the U S declined at the time to send troops, but they say the issue is in review and they will out and sending, you know, troops in Haiti. What we know is most people in Haiti, or a lot of people in Haiti actually are skeptical regarding sending troops in Haiti. I remember the last UN peacekeeping mission in Haiti was mirrored by civil scandals, including the brain colorer in Haiti, right after the earthquake, the thousands of people died and a, about a million people who were infected by these disease.

3 (11m 22s):
And they were, and also implicated in sexual abuses. So people are very skeptical that the solution here would be to send troops. And you can see also that U S a and the international community, and that very aggressive in pushing this idea for word, because they know how thing can, you know, quickly go wrong. And

7 (11m 49s):
People of Haiti deserved pieces security, and Haiti's political leaders did to come together for the good of our country. Over the weekend, I dispatched a, a high level expert delegation to assess the situation and to determine where the United States can offer our support.

1 (12m 8s):
And, and, and in the meantime, what's the feeling in Port-au-Prince. I mean, you mentioned that you're basically in hiding, how does the nation's capital field right now,

3 (12m 22s):
Right after the assassination, you did not see a lot of people in the street. The government declared a state of teach. The airport was closed at that time, but right after, and you know, a couple of days after things are starting to get back to now, you have the sensation that, you know, folks trying to live a normal life, despite the circumstances. But at the same time, there is

8 (12m 51s):
A well-meaning.

3 (12m 53s):
And this is, this is in the state that we are in

9 (13m 2s):
More with Widlore and a minute, and today Explained

BetterHelp (13m 21s):
support from the show today comes from better help. It's summertime. Some people are getting out, some people are staying and they say, it's a hot back summer. They're saying it's a cruel summer, a hot girl summer. If you are trying to figure out what kind of summer it is, and you just need someone to talk to. So you can just categorize correctly. Someone at better health is, is standing by. If you have more pressing concerns, someone at better help is certainly standing by. And right now today, explain listeners get 10% off their first month at better help, by going to better help.com/ Explained the website. One more time is better.

BetterHelp (14m 1s):
H E L p.com/ Explained someone standing by whether you want to text. And if you want to do a little video chat, maybe you want to do an old fashioned phone call. I love and old fashioned phone call hit up. Better help. They got help. They're flexible.

JBL (14m 25s):
This episode is sponsored by JBL true wireless headphones. I'll call you back later. Okay. About to go for a run. Here's what I love about my JBL. True wireless headphones. I can go from a call with my mom to music that powers my workout. It's all with these stylish earbuds that come in a range of colors and fits I'll go and do a few miles today. Good thing. These JBL earbuds are waterproof. I'm going to sweat after a quick coffee and stop. Hm I'll have and iced coffee to go, please. Oh, okay. No rush just as well, because I definitely rely on the convenience of these headphones and Ooh, I am almost late to this meeting.

JBL (15m 11s):
Hey, everyone, guys, just ignore my dog over here. These lovely little wireless earbuds are such a lifesaver with so many options to choose from. They're perfect for whatever you're lifestyle needs and stylish too. Find the freedom to do you with JBL, true wireless headphones, to learn more, check out jbl.com/tws. That's J B l.com/tws.

1 (15m 43s):
I know you're not a historian, but, but help us understand how Haiti's history with what the international community has been complicated. Since, since the early days of Haiti, I mean, they had to pay France like

9 (15m 58s):
$21 billion right around

1 (16m 1s):
The country's founding, right. Haiti

3 (16m 4s):
Started as a, you know, it's revolution. I'm in the 18th century and in 1804, we took our independence from French. It was bloody during the 19th century, the F friends ask a jury to pay, to basically stay independent. So I've seen reports and this year talking about how friends owned Haiti, billions, actually of Dallas, one economists estimate that France should pay back 80, 28 billions of Dallas in E U S Dallas today in its the cost of, of this retribution that France asked from Haiti at the time.

3 (17m 0s):
Awesome. I'm in the 20th century, actually in 1915, the U S invaded Haiti. And it was the context similar, like, like this one we are in right now, the president was killed. He's name is <inaudible> and Sam and the U S you know, came and raided the country and took over. And

11 (17m 31s):
I just states Marines land and he needed to battle Hayti and bandits, threatening destruction of American properties and the native bandits quickly HED for the hill.

3 (17m 40s):
And they, of course, they left in 1934. But since that time, they were still was very powerful, you know, elements in the country. When we had the dictatorship of devalue pop-up duck, it was a very brutal dictatorship V U S supported at the regime of the way from 1957 to 1986, when his son, baby, dear Lea, I left the power.

11 (18m 14s):
Thousands of Haitians made a pilgrimage today to go naive a city north, the Puerto prince, where the students were shot at the last November, they were remembered as martyrs at a mass celebrating the fall of Deval. Yay.

3 (18m 27s):
And you know, these things, if you go on until today with the intervention of the U S in 1994, to bring back <inaudible> who was elected democratically in the country, but was I had to leave at two to flee because he, he was the victim of a coup Dita,

6 (18m 53s):
The message of the United States, too. The Haitian dictators is clear. Your time is up, leave. Now our, we will force you from power

3 (19m 6s):
And, you know, thousands of Haitians died actually during this period. And you can see massive corruption and the list of people will tell you that it is in the us, it's in the pool shape that it is in right now because of, you know, this bloody dictatorship

8 (19m 27s):
In 2010, there's this cataclysmic earthquake.

1 (19m 39s):
How does the country recover from that earthquake? I don't know if we recovered from that, there was a lot of hopes

3 (19m 52s):
Regarding how that events would be if foundational dates for Haiti were about how we would use these events to put Haiti on the path for economic success. And you had massive aid coming from the following entities. Like you call a Haiti, the, the nation of NGU. It's because you have a loss of NGOs in this country. But years after that, you have little to show in terms of conceptions of the infrastructure, in terms of how people in better shape now than they were.

3 (20m 37s):
Then you have, for instance, this year 4.4 million people in urgent and critical need of food, according to the UN, and you have thousands of people fleeing the home because of the valence of gangs, but all the way until last January, I was conducting pudding showing that you still have camps, some camps that her lift years after the earthquake. So I think the country is not in the, in a better shape in some people would argue that we are in the worship since when we have the earthquake.

1 (21m 19s):
And it's in this climate that Jovenel Moises comes to power and light became

3 (21m 25s):
President in 2017, with lots of promises,

5 (21m 30s):
Working hard, to be close with the, with the, with the <inaudible>. And because no way a president can work without deputies without scenarios.

3 (21m 43s):
But what years after he's own government was embodied in civil scandals, he personally was embattled. In corruption cases, you have reports including from the judicial system that says that his own companies was committing embezzlement. And <inaudible> in Haiti that we call it. <inaudible> where, you know, billions of dollars from a, from a fund. And that was set up with the Venezuelan government, from a program that we copied to KBB, and the resident was implicated in these things.

3 (22m 27s):
And because of this candle, he suffered of several mass protests. I mean, since he was the election, actually, and these Buddhists were still on-going this year. And, and people were asking him to be removed from power, but overall, the country was in the bad shape when he came in president and the country in, he left the country in a, you know, more dire situation. And actually then when he came,

1 (23m 2s):
What's the path forward for Haiti? I mean, the countries often described as the poorest in the Western hemisphere, we have reason to believe that foreign aid, international intervention, self-rule all of these things can be problematic. So what's the solution here. You've got this power vacuum, you've got an assassinated president. You've got people in the country asking for the United States to step in. We have historical precedent that suggests that's not always the best idea. What do you think the best path forward is? I

3 (23m 40s):
Don't know if I have any solution myself. I think I don't know what the forward is, but what I do know is most people, I talk to ask that the international community, at least once sit down and listen to civil society, listen to grassroots organizations. They send to the stakeholders that are Haitian and who have the say in what is going on and see if a common ground can emerge and, and the consensus can emerge so they can decide together what the future of very should be.

1 (24m 23s):
You run that Haitian news website, you've been covering everything we've talked about today. What gives you hope and gives me hope.

3 (24m 39s):
It's the most difficult question that you asked me, but what gives me hope is the Haitian people. I know my people, I know my colleagues at AyiboPost. I know how incredibly talented they are, and I know how most Haitians believe in Haiti. You really hear about how some people are leaving the country and doing our history. Every time you have political turmoil, have a wave of people who leave the country during the dictatorship. For instance, it lots of people and naturally very professional, very educated people left to Canada, to Congo, to the us during the earthquake, or some people left in during the last crisis as well.

3 (25m 22s):
You have some people live, but you have also a core of people who believe in this country. We love this country. And we think that we can make it work. And I believe in these people, actually, I believe that if they get together and have their say in what's going on, and we will be able to find the Haitian solution to the crisis, what is the solution? I don't know, but I am very positive that something good, something great. Something the functional you can come out of Haitian reunion.

3 (26m 5s):
And yeah, this is where it gives me hope.

9 (26m 16s):
Widlore Marin KU is the editor and chief of the Evo post and Haiti.

8 (26m 25s):
We, the law, when the law, you can find his work

9 (26m 31s):
At AyiboPost dot com. That's a, Y I B O P O S t.com. If your Francais is rusty, there's a link at the top that says, and English, I'm Sean Robins from this is Explained

8 (26m 45s):
In English. <inaudible>.