0 (4s):
Nice. What you're hearing right now is a German guy asking his wife to go get a mixer, to puree some soup for him. The reason it sounds kind of funky is because he's asking her using only his thoughts. You're hearing real-time activity, brain activity that this person now has to sort of actively shape, actively manipulate through his own mind. Totally paralyzed person asked his wife to puree some soup using only his thoughts. That request thanks to a brain implant manifested, not in words but notes.

0 (45s):
And that's his sort of most basic form of communication. Despite being in a completely locked in state On today, explained we're revisiting an episode on no joke. Telepathy.

4 (60s):
Obviously the pandemic caused a lot of anxiety for a lot of us. You're just sitting at home at your house and you're still anxious.

5 (1m 7s):
Can philosophy help us be less anxious? You are the source of the anxiety, not the external world. I'm Sean Ellie host of box conversations. And I want to tell you about our new series. The philosophers, each episode focuses on the ideas of a philosopher or school of thought from the past and explains why they still matter. Today. This month I talked to bestselling author, Ryan holiday about stoicism, a philosophy that has a ton of wisdom for us today. <inaudible> to actually be present. That's a form of happiness also. So listen to the philosophers in the box, conversations feet

1 (1m 54s):
I explained I'm Sean Rama's firm. I'm joined by Jonathan Mullins, freelance science journalist. And we're going to talk about a guy whose name. We actually don't know.

3 (2m 3s):
No one really knows his name because for privacy reasons, it's sort of kept secret,

1 (2m 8s):
But he's the star of this story.

3 (2m 10s):
He was diagnosed with your traffic, lateral sclerosis, ALS this is a condition that entails sort of losing certain brain cells in your brain and spinal cord sort of degenerate over time. And these are related to motor controls. You sort of lose the ability to move and you quite quickly end up quite immobilized, sort of totally paralyzed. And so this person, he was in his state diagnosed as in 15, and eventually he started to lose all of this motor control, but he's still able to communicate with his eyes.

1 (2m 40s):
How do you communicate with your eyes?

3 (2m 42s):
Right? So he communicates because he can move his eyes horizontal and up and down directions, I believe. And essentially his family had devised a sort of pen and paper scheme, which involves having these four columns, I believe. So it was like red, yellow, green, and blue. And each color has a list of letters. So say yellow has a, B, C, D, and then green has E F G H. It's not actually those, but it's something along those lines basically have clusters of letters in each color. And so through eye movements, he says, yes and no. So they point at yellow, he says, yes. And then they list out each letter and he says, yes or no. The problem here is that he know he's aware that this ability to speak with his eyes is temporary.

3 (3m 23s):
And so he asks and the family realizes that he wants some kind of strategy to go beyond this. As things get increasingly worse, the family reaches out to these brain scientists, this guy called Neos per Ballmer, and other scientists called <inaudible> Choudhary. And so they, they tell him like, we might have a method for you. And they were like, maybe we just need to sort of actually get into the brain itself through the skull They implants is to sort of chips. And these chips have 64 micro electrodes in them. So it's like, basically you could think about this microchip with like 64 little teeth almost. They put these in the layer of the brain specific in the part, both in motor control.

3 (4m 5s):
So hand movements, especially I think is what they were focusing at the time. And those electrodes are, they're going to pick up the signal of the brain activity directly. Huh? It's not something that's on the outer layer of your head. It's something that's actually directly physically inside your brain.

1 (4m 22s):
How does this technology work?

3 (4m 25s):
If you think of neurons, neurons being brain cells, they have what are known as action potential. That's how they sort of drive activity to pass on information. It's sort of like a wire passing on electrical information. And so these micro electrodes are able to detect these sort of very small scale electrical activity in specific parts of the brain. If we ask the man whose name, I do not know if we ask him to imagine something because he can't move. If he asks you to imagine moving his hand, then maybe we can get a response from that that is directly picked up by these micro electrodes. So that's kind of the idea,

1 (5m 4s):
Okay, how does it go?

3 (5m 6s):
They spent, I think 86 days just trying this out, trying to see if they can elicit electrical activity for hand movement or movement, tongue movement. None of that works out. And so there's a sort of aha moment, I guess sort of the breakthrough moment is when Neil's bird Ballmer tells them, why don't we try this somewhat unusual technique called auditory neuro feedback,

1 (5m 33s):
Auditory, neurofeedback.

3 (5m 35s):
That's right. Yeah.

1 (5m 36s):
What is it

3 (5m 38s):
Essentially? What you're doing is you're providing the person with real time activity or what's going on in their own brain. And in this case it's sound. So he's getting real-time activity of his own brain cells in the form of sound that he can then modulate actively by changing his thoughts. So by being provided this constant feedback of what's going on in his brain, he's then asked, well, can you push it up or can you push it down? Can you dial it up? Can you dial it down?

1 (6m 6s):
Can you dial up or down the sound?

3 (6m 9s):
Yes, exactly. And he does this by thinking of something and that was it, his able of just sort of boosting that signal up or boosting it down.

1 (6m 18s):
And this is some pretty heavy stuff. So, so help us understand how exactly this allows them to communicate with them.

3 (6m 27s):
Right? Yeah. So there are two main stages to this and it's quite complicated, but hopefully we'll get through this. So the first stage is basically training. You're training this guy to be able to say yes or no, that's the goal. So how do we make him say yes or no? The first thing is to basically give him, what's known as a target tone, either a high note or a low note. And that's the tone that he has to match with his mind through pushing up the second sound that I'll describe. Now say he gets the first note, it's a high note, whatever it is, then he's provided a second sound. And that also prompts him to start the trial as you call it.

3 (7m 7s):
Okay. Now the second sound here, try to push the sound to match this set, this first sound he heard And as he manipulates his own brain activity, you hear a series of tones that are hopefully getting closer to the target tone. And every time he gets it, right, he's actually getting a cash reward in the form of just like a sound that makes like teaching or something like that. So in a way, this is kind of like this opera and conditioning Pavlov style, where you're just priming this person to just keep learning how to say yes, keep learning how to say no, keep doing what you need to do to be able to get that activity up or down. It doesn't really matter what you do, to be honest, as long as you get it to that point.

1 (7m 53s):
So how did these experiments progress? Is it just yeses and nos and hitting the right note for forever?

3 (7m 60s):
Right? So it's a lot of that, honestly. And when he got really good at it, when essentially when he got 80% of these, correct, he would move on to the next phase every few weeks they would come in and they would do this training with him, Pavlovian style, you know, conditioning him to be able to say yes or no. And then once that's done and he gets 80% of the accuracy, correct. He then ends up doing the spelling section. So this is the more sort of weird and spooky section here's when he applies yes. And nos to a schema, like he had learned before with his family, a very similar one actually, where he's able to say yes and no to specific letters.

0 (8m 40s):
Nice. Nice. Yeah.

3 (8m 46s):
And then thereby formulating actual words, sentences, and an entire expression.

0 (8m 56s):
<inaudible> <inaudible> nine

1 (9m 9s):
And following this tedious process, what does he finally say?

3 (9m 15s):
Right. So you're saying all these things in German, and you know, if you translate these things in German to English, they are things like, I want goulash soup or mum had massage. It's a lot of us sort of direct instructions. Or I want to listen to tool, rock band from Los Angeles Or carry potato and followed a shoe person thing or an assembly of food and music and beer, and wanting to watch movies with her son who, I don't know how old the oldest son was, but I think he was quite young.

1 (9m 56s):
Okay. So, so our guy's hungry and he loves beer and he loves tool. All that aside what's happening here is hugely historic.

3 (10m 6s):
Yeah. I mean, it is kind of like a breakthrough study in many ways. This is the first time a fully paralyzed person is able to communicate at this length and is able to communicate entire sentences, able to express themselves. People who are family relatives are a lot of hope regarding this technology because suddenly they see this as the ability to finally communicate to some extent, right. Even if it's very slow, this is kind of like this amazing technology and it's great advancement in science and technology, but there are very, very good reasons to be skeptical. A lot of scientists question Niels, Bohr, Obama, and Audra Chaudhary specifically. And so I think there are good reasons to sort of take this with a big grain of salt.

1 (10m 60s):
A big grain of salt is coming up next on today, explained

Land Of The Giants (11m 32s):
I'm Shereen Ghafari and I'm Alex Heath. We're hosting land of the giants, a podcast about the biggest tech companies of our time. This season Mehta formerly known as Facebook. It's a company in a particularly controversial and vulnerable moment. Mark Zuckerberg is placing a multi-billion dollar bet towards an imagined metaverse future. Meanwhile, the rest of us are still grappling with what he's already built This season. We're going to talk to the executive steering Meta's biggest decisions. And you'll hear from some of Meta's sharpest critics. It's former employees We'll explore wise. Zuckerberg is taking the company in a bold direction and how Facebook's past will inform its future Land of the giants. The Facebook Mehta disruption from Recode, the verge and the Vox media podcast network. This season is sponsored by Klayvio Subscribe for free wherever you listen and get our first episode on Wednesday, July 13th,

Unexplainable podcast (12m 33s):
Unexplainable is a science show about everything we don't know. And we've got a new series, lost worlds about some of the wildest mysteries of the deep, deep past. You're looking at a kind of world that hasn't existed for millions. And The time is so huge that scientists can ask all kinds of unexpected questions. How do you know that we are the first technological species on earth? There's a lot. We don't know. Like where did the moon come from? We have no idea why the moon is here and it's the moon. It's not like this is some strange faraway thing. It's it's the moon. It's almost as if time I've got this Place or what exactly happened to Venus Earth and Venus really like twins really. They'd been born at the same time from the same stuff. So why don't we have a paradise next to a paradise lost As a whole universe out there, Steve, beyond anyone's comprehension Find unexplainable his entire four episode series. Now, wherever you listen, let's not explainable

1 (13m 36s):
Today explained you've heard about the breakthrough science, a fully locked in paralyzed person, talking, using thoughts, read by a brain implant, translated into yeses and nos that then correspond to letters that make complete sentences. Like, could you get me a beer? Could you massage my head or Curry with potato? But now we've got to talk about the dudes behind the experiment and why a bunch of their peers don't really trust them to help with that. We reached out to Megan, Keisha, she's a biotech reporter for stat news. And she recently wrote about Neil's beer bomber and <inaudible>

16 (14m 13s):
There. Science does look quite amazing, you know, and it was published in one of the top journals in the world. But few years ago, their work was completely discredited. They did something pretty similar with the ALS patients. It wasn't a brain implant, but they used a brain computer interface where they put electrodes on patients scalps. And they found out a way to communicate with them through yes or no answers, but then someone at the university of Tubingen, they tested the data again and tried to replicate it and proclaimed that it was wrong. The salutation basically destroyed their careers.

1 (14m 48s):
Does that mean they're trying to sort of redeem themselves with this new experiment?

16 (14m 53s):
I think so. I think so.

1 (14m 55s):
Well, tell me a little bit more about these two scientists. Let's start with Neil's beer bomber.

16 (14m 60s):
He was a pretty famous neuroscientist in Germany. It's kind of a bombastic figure. Yeah, he's done a lot of work on consciousness in general. I think some work in psychedelics like altered consciousness. What that means for a personhood. You wrote a book called empty brain happy brain, which sort of says the quieter. Your mind is the happier you are. And the more present you are in like living

17 (15m 28s):
Now, you may ask isn't quality of life in such a terrible disease, so bad that everybody would like to knock to live.

16 (15m 36s):
And it actually has implications that whole thesis on this idea that people who are locked in with ALS can actually be happy in that state.

17 (15m 44s):
The answer is many, many studies in the U S and in Europe, we, these completely paralyzed patients have shown that quality of life is extremely high and low. So what we see is a surprising quality of life, despite a desperate physical situation,

16 (16m 5s):
He speaks his mind, you know, he's, he's been controversial

1 (16m 10s):
And his buddy Choudhry,

16 (16m 12s):
Oh, he was just a postdoc in his lab and they just worked together. He came over to Germany to do post-doctoral work in brain, computer interface stuff.

1 (16m 24s):
Tell me more about this first experiment they did. Was it as groundbreaking as this new one? And in theory,

16 (16m 30s):
So for 2017, yeah, it was super groundbreaking or so it seemed

18 (16m 34s):
The simple looking non-invasive cap is allowing researchers to communicate with patients who are trapped inside their own bodies because of degenerative nerve diseases like ALS

16 (16m 45s):
In 2017, they had a paper in plus biology, which is another pretty high-impact journal about how these electrodes on the scalp could read brainwaves and decide if someone was thinking the answer yes. Or thinking the answer. No.

17 (16m 60s):
And sinks. Yes. When a patient sinks, no. The machine records, the blood flow during that sot and calculate how the blood flow changes during yes. And during no. And after a while he has the computer develops an idea, a pattern of the blood flow during a yes. And doing, you know,

16 (17m 22s):
Th they tested it in force objects and they claimed that it was pretty successful

1 (17m 26s):
Beer bomber. And shattery actually claimed to have been able to communicate with a fully paralyzed person before.

16 (17m 36s):
Yes, there were a lot of headlines. It had some cute anecdotes. One of them was that like a daughter asked her, her paralyzed father, if he approved of for fiance. And he said, no, nine times out of 10, you know, it was, it indication that he was still in there and he definitely had opinions.

1 (17m 53s):
Did he say yes the 10th time? Because he was just tired of being asked

16 (17m 58s):
That I don't know. I don't know about the order of it. It may have just been that the brain can brainwaves were read differently.

1 (18m 4s):
What ends up happening to the study? Why does it get challenged?

16 (18m 7s):
It was because the person who worked in the same university just decided to run the numbers and found that they weren't necessarily consistent. And it wasn't replicable. One of the underlying tenets of science these days is that if you publish work, it has to be replicable by somebody else. Like you need to have consistent results that can be reproduced. And if they're not reproduced, then that calls into question whether, if it's real. And so that basically happened. And then there was this big inquiry into his work from the university. And then also from the DSG G, which is basically the major research funding agency in Germany.

16 (18m 52s):
And they looked into his work and they decided that there was a selective data selection, meaning that they only chose the good stuff maybe. And that there may have been a lack of disclosure of some data and some aspects of the challenging of these patients with these questions. There were portions of video that were missing. And so the DSG, the university, the scientific community, they doubted bear Baumer. And it led to the fall of his career in a sense,

1 (19m 22s):
How bad does it get for him?

16 (19m 25s):
Well, he got fired from the university. The DSG, I think, asked for him to pay back the research funds that he had used from them. He was put on probation for five years with the DSG. He basically decided that he was going to quit science and moved to Italy.

1 (19m 43s):
It was so bad that he left his country.

16 (19m 45s):
Yeah. He was like, I'm done with Germany. So he, he moved.

1 (19m 50s):
Did he ever concede that he used improper science that he fudged his results?

16 (19m 56s):
No, he didn't. He actually stands by his data a hundred percent. He concedes that he omitted certain portions of the video taping, like these patient answers because they were videotaping most of the sessions. And he said it was because patients needed to be cared for like spit needed to be suctioned out of their mouths or, you know, they had to be moved. And so these types of activities that were just patient care, like they said that that's why they turned off the video camera. And that was their biggest fault.

1 (20m 25s):
How was this looked at in the scientific community? Clearly, it didn't go well for him and in Germany at this university. But, but what did other scientists think?

16 (20m 34s):
I think it's mixed. There are definitely scientists that continue to doubt his work. I've heard from some of them, but there's also just a coalition of scientists that were signatories in a petition basically saying like bear bomber is innocent and his work should be reinstated into the journals. I mean, there are dozens of names of different scientists around the world that are supporting.

1 (20m 58s):
So back in March, beer, Baumer and childhood, he published this new experiment, groundbreaking stuff, historic stuff. But of course in the scientific community, people know that these guys kind of have the Scarlet letter. What's the reaction.

16 (21m 13s):
I think it's a lot more measured than what the broader public reaction has been. I think scientists are impressed that the results look good. You know, any work that's published in something like nature, communications has been vetted really carefully. And I think nature took two years to look through their data, to try and validate it because they have the sticky history to get vetted by nature. It's going to take months anyway, but very rarely does it take two years. So I think it's an accomplishment to have this work published at all.

1 (21m 45s):
Okay. So these two scientists have a checkered past, but this experiment was possibly extra vetted as a result. What about the ethics? What are some of the ethical questions surrounding opening up paralyzed? People's skulls to get them to communicate.

16 (22m 3s):
There are a lot of ethical concerns with these brain computer interfaces. Some researchers are stepping away from this because they're realizing that the broader ALS community just needs more support just in the ways that that they're living their lives. You know, like the money could perhaps better be spent with treatments or with allowing better social supports. And so this is an invasive technology, which involves these people like learning entirely new ways to communicate. And it takes time and probably millions of dollars. And so it's not necessarily feasible for a lot of people. First off the environment has to be exactly perfect for this to work in a person.

16 (22m 44s):
And secondly, like there are issues of consent. You can say that this person consented, but if a person is completely locked in there, there are still going to be questions on how long they're going to want to continue to communicate in this way. Beyond that there are questions on how many people with ALS would want to continue living like this because these people are all on ventilators and they're completely paralyzed. And so yes, they can talk. But how many people will want to that's that's a big question. The implants can be, we don't know what their shelf lives are like how long they will even work and how many surgeries it will take to like read and start them. So there's that. And then there are just the issues of what kind of a life is worth living to society or to an individual.

16 (23m 30s):
These are people who are making choices, but what does it mean to be locked in and communicate this way? It's been a hairy topic from the beginning

1 (23m 41s):
And we don't have all the answers to those questions yet, but maybe we will, once this technology starts coming online for more and more people, and it sounds like that might be happening soon.

16 (23m 53s):
Good. And you know, if people continue this type of research, I think Elon Musk is into it. Well, we'll see, you know, there are all kinds of, Saifai fun thoughts on where this kind of research could go, but right now it's, it's kind of nice that they're trying to, to help patients communicate in and live a little bit.

1 (24m 11s):
And then it's only a matter of time before, like you and I can do this interview without even talking to each other. I guess like Elon Musk's dream is to have people talk to each other without talking. Right.

16 (24m 23s):
Okay. I guess that all of that stuff maybe could be possible, but I think people like to get ahead of themselves and what technology is capable of doing. We're not there yet. There are a lot of, a lot of things that need to go right before one can do that.

1 (24m 57s):
Megan at Keisha VIN reports for stat news, you can find her work@statnews.com earlier in the show you heard from Jonathan Molson's piece of freelance science journalist, who wrote about this man whose name we do not know for the New York times, the headline was brain implant allows fully paralyzed patients to communicate our program today was produced by miles. Bryan edited by Matthew collect fact-checked by Tori Domingas and Laura Bullard and engineered by a theme Shapiro. I'm Sean Rama's from get in touch with us anytime via email, where today explained@vox.com. You can also find us on Twitter at today.

1 (25m 37s):
Underscore explained