0 (0s):
People sometimes speculated about whether the Russian opposition leader, Alexei Navalny was crazy, brave, or just crazy.

1 (9s):
He was heroically brave. I, I mean, insanely brave.

0 (13s):
Vladimir Putin had Navalny, poisoned, disappeared, imprisoned, and today the Russian authorities declared him dead At the age of 47, he

1 (22s):
Was a patriot of a Democratic Russia, of a free Russia, of a Russia that actually doesn't exist and, and I don't think will be existing anytime soon. It was that patriotism, ultimately that that really cost him his life.

0 (35s):
Navalny s life was so dangerous that one time he was asked what he'd say to Russians from beyond the grave

2 (42s):
For the situation when I'm killed, is very simple, not give up.

4 (48s):
Do me a favor, answer this one. In Russian,

0 (55s):
The life and afterlife of Vladimir Putin's bravest adversary Coming up on today explained,

Unexplainable podcast (1m 5s):
If Valentine's Day isn't hitting you right this year, you might just need a good cry. But for some people crying can be almost impossible. I had not cried in more than a decade, and I remember being in my room and just saying, okay, well this is it. Like, come hell or high water, I'm not leaving this room till I cry This week on Unexplainable crying. Why we do it? And what happens to us if we don't listen to Unexplainable new episodes every Wednesday?

7 (1m 38s):
Roses are red. This poem's a gimmick. The marriage rate is falling for black women and the reasons are systemic.

8 (1m 46s):
The barriers might look different. They might show up differently, but they're facing the same forbidden black love barrier.

7 (1m 55s):
Why is the marriage rate so low for black women? That answer is especially complicated. That's this week on The Weeds new episodes every Wednesday.

9 (2m 9s):
Voia

10 (2m 12s):
This is today explains

11 (2m 17s):
Sss

0 (2m 21s):
Luke Harding is the senior international correspondent for The Guardian. He's also written several books about Russia, including mafia state. I asked Luke, what does he think happened to Alexia Navalny?

1 (2m 32s):
Well, I think Alexi Navalny was murdered by the Kremlin, almost certainly with the personal authorization of Vladimir Putin, Russia's president.

0 (2m 40s):
Why do you think this happened? Now, Luke,

1 (2m 42s):
I think for two reasons. One is that there are elections coming up in Russia. Whenever you say the word elections, you have to do little earmarks inverted comm around it, because obviously it's not a real competitive vote. It's a sort of coronation. But, but what you have to understand is that the, the, the Kremlin Putin and the people around him are notoriously paranoid and they have long regarded Alexi Navalny as, as a threat and an irritant. And so for them, this is sort of tidying up ahead of elections. And as, as Stalin famously said, no man, no problem. Now, now Navalny has gone. There is no problem for Putin in terms of possible opposition protests against him.

1 (3m 28s):
And at the same time, I think, I think that the big reason, the most compelling reason is what's happening internationally, and in particular in the us what's happening is that Putin looks across to America and he sees weakness and division. He sees Donald Trump saying very loudly, very clearly that, that if he's reelected as president, he will not come to the aid of NATO's allies.

13 (3m 50s):
No, I would not protect you. In fact, I would encourage them to do whatever the hell they want. You gotta pay, you gotta pay your bills.

1 (3m 58s):
He sees Republicans in Congress blocking vital aid to Ukraine, which is allowing Russian troops to push forward. As we speak on the battlefield, I think the wind isn't his sails. He thinks things are going in his direction that, that he can prevail in Ukraine, that the west is pretty feeble, and that America in particular is, is paralyzed. And so in a sense, he's doing this because he can do this. He knows there'll be words of outrage, condemnation and so on. And those guys that are the top, top of Russian power, they take some pleasure from that. They, they enjoy discomforting the Kremlin's enemies and they enjoy sticking it to America.

0 (4m 37s):
Let's talk about Navalny himself. What made Alexi Navalny so significant, so important?

1 (4m 43s):
I, I think what made Navalny so important and significant was the fact that he actually could talk to people. I mean, he, he was the nearest thing that, that Russia had to, to a really strong politician. Genuine politician as opposed to a kind of Soviet style apparat or, or, or bureaucrat. He could stir people up. He could denounce the Kremlin. And he was brilliant on social media. His, his video in investigations into Putin's personal corruption, and, and those around him clocked up millions of views

14 (5m 23s):
In 2017, after announcing his intentions to run for President, Navalny was attacked with green dye twice, maybe the Kremlin thinks that I will not record videos with a green face. He said, but now even more people will watch.

1 (5m 40s):
So he was a genuine threat despite being barred from state television television, despite having no access to conventional media resources. He got a profile, he got a following. In any democratic situation, he would've been Russia's president. And now of course, that's never gonna happen.

0 (5m 56s):
Tell us about Alexia Navalny, he's early life and how he came to be where he was.

1 (6m 1s):
Well, he was a lawyer initially. He was quite a successful lawyer in, in the 1990s from kind of European Russia grew up there. And I think what what was interesting was that, that around about the beginning of Putin's presidential term, he started becoming what you might call an activist shareholder. In other words, he decided to invest, he to investigate kind of corruption by, by the state and, and by big state companies like the oil and gas, giant gas prom and, and other kind of sort of corporate beer moss.

14 (6m 35s):
In 2011, he started the anti-Corruption Foundation, which exposed the extravagant wealth of Russian officials, including President Vladimir

1 (6m 45s):
Putin, essentially during Vladimir Putin's Russia, two things have been going on. One is this big noisy, terrible nationalist project or imperialist project that we, we, we, we see at the moment unfolding in Ukraine. But the other is simple theft by, by people close to Putin who are now all billionaires. They, they've stolen billions and billions of dollars and Navalny exposed that he was a nationalist. Some of his views were quite right wing, I think controversially. And he got more and more of a following. And, and initially when I was in Moscow between 2007 and 2011, when, where, when I met him, he, he was pretty well known in Russia, not, not so much known abroad for investigations and, and for campaigns.

1 (7m 26s):
And I, I remember seeing him and he was a bit like a sort of teacher, like a clever and gifted teacher. Hmm. And we were discussing corruption in a particular firm. And he was sketching on a whiteboard, various schemes, going to top Kremlin officials. And there was something sort of infectious about his enthusiasm. And he got more and more of a profile. He, he stood to be mayor of Moscow, and obviously he was never gonna win, but he did surprisingly well. And then of course, the Kremlin barred him from formal politics. So he took to the streets, set up his own political party and challenged and vexed the Kremlin

0 (7m 59s):
By 2020. Alexi Navalny is the most prominent voice of the Russian opposition. And then something very striking happens. He's poisoned. Can you tell us what happened there?

1 (8m 11s):
He was dramatically poisoned. And what what is striking about, about the Kremlin and the, the, the Putin regime is that they've got a taste for the theatrical, the flamboyant. The demonstrative and Navani was campaigning in Southern Russia. And we now know a team of agents from the FSB that, that's Putin's domestic intelligence agency successor to the KGB. Were following him around actually for, for several years. But, but finally moved in for the kill. And, and that one of them applied poison nacho, a a dead nerve agent to the valley's underpants. I mean, it's, it's almost a dark fast.

1 (8m 53s):
And Navalny went to the airport to, to fly back to Moscow. And about half an hour after takeoff, he, he collapsed. And there's really terrible footage of him howling and screaming. He's taken off the plane. And, and in incredibly the doctors who don't know what has happened, treat him with atropine, which is actually a kind of antidote to, to Novi shock. And, and he survives and he's medivac to Germany where he recovers. It takes him about six months, and then he goes back to Russia. But this is the same substance, this this toxic substance which was used a couple of years earlier in, in England in a town called Salisbury against a Russian defector called Serge Kal.

1 (9m 38s):
And, and we know of course that, that it's only Russian spy agencies that have access to it. And just the final twist in this extraordinary story is that when he's recuperating, he works with the investigative online outfit, belling cat and calls up one of his poisoners and tricks his poisoner to confessing everything.

17 (9m 57s):
Navalny stayed in Canada for, for 49 minutes and kept bullying the poor guy to give him more information and more information.

18 (10m 4s):
Unbelievable. Poor guy. Poor guy. They will kill, they will kill.

19 (10m 8s):
Literally. I, I think you'll be president seriously after this.

18 (10m 13s):
We will definitely kill me.

1 (10m 15s):
It it, it's astonishing. I mean, he, he was brave, he was daring, he was extraordinary. And, and, and boy, we're gonna miss him. Now. He is gone. What

0 (10m 25s):
Happened after he returned to Russia from Germany? Tell us about his last few years.

1 (10m 29s):
I mean, I, I was watching in real time as he, as he flew back on the plane from, from Berlin into Moscow, it was full of journalists.

20 (10m 37s):
Aren't you afraid?

1 (10m 40s):
He, in classic Navalny style, spent half a flight watching Rick and Morty cartoons. He, he was a big fan of the show. And then he gave a press conference showing that ba basically telling the world that he was going back, that he wasn't afraid. And he goes to passport control. And of course, of course, of course he's, he's arrest is, he's detained by uniformed Putin officers who take him away. And, and what, what's what's sort of sad really is, is thinking back about those images. There's, there's a kind of hug for his wife Yu that they have a brief embrace and they kiss each other on the lips and, and that's it. Off he goes. And he doesn't emerge.

1 (11m 21s):
I mean, from from that point onwards, he, you hear from him occasionally, either directly, sometimes via, via social media, via, via Twitter X and sometimes through his lawyers. But he disappears into this dark unaccountable prison gulag system in Russia. And he's, he sort of bands from place to place. So sometimes he surfaces and then he goes missing for a couple of weeks. And, and his last la last base, he, he, he was incarcerated, was, was in this grim prison 2000 miles away from Mo from from Moscow near the Arctic circle, which is traditionally where, where Stalin sent his enemies to, to the Fresno North.

1 (12m 1s):
And, and they're of course far away from, from journalists, far away from international observers. I think he was murdered.

0 (12m 9s):
If, if your suspicion is correct, and we should say it's the suspicion of a lot of people, an autocratic world leader has murdered a popular opposition leader. This is a very big deal. What would Vladimir Putin have been thinking?

1 (12m 28s):
Well, I mean, first of all, Vladimir Putin doesn't care about human life. It's a matter of, of complete and breezy indifference to him. He doesn't care about killing people, but he is very keen on symbolism. And I think the timing of, of Val's death is, is to do with us weakness. The fact that that Congress under Republican leadership won't, won't pass aid packages to Ukraine. It's to do with upcoming presidential elections of Russia, which he will win, of course, minimizing risk there. And it's also to do with the, the Munich Security Conference, which opened today in Germany. And I, I think what what's, what's interesting about that is the Munich Security Conference, a lot of people have forgotten.

1 (13m 8s):
But in 2007, in his second presidential term, Putin denounced us heini, or as he put it, kind of the, the unipolar world. In other words, the current kind of political system dominated by Washington. And he made it clear that he intended to disrupt it, that Russia had been cheated, was being encircled, taken for granted, his voice was being ignored in international affairs, and he would no longer play by the White House's rules

22 (13m 36s):
One state. And of course, first and foremost, the United States has overstepped. Its national board is in every way it imposes on other nations. Well, who likes this? Who was happy about this?

1 (13m 48s):
That was a statement of intent back then. And of course now, as, as Russia's enemies, as he would see it gather in Munich, they are all talking about one thing, which is Navalny death.

0 (14m 5s):
Coming up, Luke Harding will be back with us on the fate of the Russian opposition without Alexia Navalny.

Unlocking Us with Brene Brown (14m 24s):
Hi everyone, I'm Brene Brown, and this is unlocking us. In this podcast we'll explore ideas, stories, experiences, research, books, film, music, anything that reflects the universal experiences of being human from the bravest moments to the most broken hearted. Some episodes will be conversations with the people who are teaching me challenging me, confusing me, maybe ticking me off a little bit. Some days I'll just talk directly to you about what I'm learning and how it's changing the way I think and feel. Episodes of unlocking us start on February 28th. We're gonna do three or four part series every quarter, so about 12 to 15 episodes a year, and they'll drop on Wednesdays. And now you can find me wherever you normally listen to your podcasts. You can get new episodes as soon as they're published by following unlocking us on your favorite podcast app. As usual, always stay awkward, brave and kind.

0 (15m 24s):
It's today explained. We're back with Luke Harding, he's the guardian's senior international correspondent Luke. How are Russians reacting today to Alexi Navalny death?

1 (15m 34s):
Russians are being relatively muted. I mean, the ones inside the country, of course, there hasn't been a kind of huge or or vocal condemnation, but you wouldn't expect that because you, you post something on Twitter critical of Putin or against the war, and you are pretty quickly kind of rounded up by the police and very often sentenced to jail terms of 7, 8, 9 years. What, what we have been seeing a a, a very clear responses from political allies of Navani living outside the country in the Baltic states, in Europe or in London or or elsewhere. They all say the same thing. That that Navalny was murdered. The Kremlin murdered Navalny Putin personally murdered Navalny.

1 (16m 16s):
And I've just been watching Valli's wife Yulia, who's at the Munich Security Conference, giving such a, a moving and powerful speech.

24 (16m 26s):
I guess you all have already seen this horrible news coming from Russia. I was thinking for a long time, what should I do? Should I go here or should I fly straight to see my kids? But then I thought, what would Alexei Alexia do if he was here? And I'm sure that he would have chosen to, to be here, to come to this stage.

1 (16m 53s):
And she then essentially says that she holds Putin in his circle, personally responsible for everything that has happened to Russia, her country, to her family and to her beloved husband.

24 (17m 4s):
But if it is true, I want Putin and all his allies, all his friends, his government, I want the more to know that they would be held responsible for what they have done with our country, with my family, with, with my husband.

1 (17m 28s):
She speaks for about three minutes. It's incredibly moving. It's so sad. And, and she's right. It's what Navani would've wanted. He would've wanted people to carry on to fight to, to kind of continue with his legacy.

0 (17m 40s):
Has the Kremlin said anything today?

1 (17m 42s):
Well, the, the Kremlin is doing what it always does, which is hide behind bureaucratic obfuscation. There was a statement from the Russian Federal Penitentiary service saying, Mr. Navalny collapsed. Doctors did everything they could to revive him, but very sadly, after half an hour he was pronounced dead, which is bewildering Navalny appeared yesterday on a video looking gaunts and thin, but also cheerful and essentially himself joking and laughing with prison staff in a brief court appearance. So he goes from that to being dead. And clearly something happened to him between yesterday and today. I sort of think that it's gonna be a long time before we know the full truth about what happened in Navalny.

1 (18m 26s):
What's

0 (18m 26s):
The status of the opposition in Russia now without Navalny? Who else, who else sticks in Putin's craw? Who else threatens him politically?

1 (18m 35s):
I, I think there is no opposition to, to Vladimir prison or not, not much. I mean, in terms of formal opposition, there hasn't been any for a long time. There is what you might call system opposition in the shape of the communists who kind of formally opposed Vladimir Putin, but in reality are being co-opted by the Russian government and pos no real threat, but there are sort of outlet for discontent. And then there's the kind of liberal opposition, the non non-systemic opposition, which Navani led very successfully. And, and they've been pretty much wiped out as, as Russia has lurch from authoritarian country to, to Arian state, which more and more resembles something out of George Orwell in 1984 where up is down and black is white and war is peace and freedom is slavery, or slavery is freedom.

1 (19m 24s):
There was a kind of token opposition candidate who was supposed to be on the ballot paper for, for March's presidential election. And he, he's recently been disqualified. So it's a dictatorship

0 (19m 34s):
Luke. Sometimes in a case like this, you have an opposition leader who's killed, and the people that are left behind, the opposition that are left behind, they capitalize on it by getting people angry and out into the streets and protesting this is a move that should infuriate some percentage of Russians. Right? But it sounds like what you're saying is there is no leader to take the baton from Navalny. There is nobody who can successfully call a million people out into the streets and protest of this.

1 (20m 7s):
I mean, there were leaders, there was someone called Barry himself, former Deputy prime minister in, in the 1990s who, who was actually quite similar to Navalny. He, he was ruggedly good looking, he was charismatic, popular. The the problem was that, that, that he was also murdered. He was, he was shot dead outside the Kremlin. And Mof has gone, Navalny has gone. A whole host of other critics where I am in London have also been murdered, such as Alexander Living Yanko, who was A-A-F-S-B whistleblower working for Putin Security Services, who denounced Putin and also live in Yoko's patron, a a Russian oligarch called Boris Barovsky, who was found mysteriously hanged at his ex-wife's home in the British home counties.

1 (20m 50s):
And so this is the problem is that anyone who really has stood up to Putin in a sort of serious way has met with a murky end. Russia is very different from the US or Indeed, any other democratic society where, where in America, for all of the bitter partisan divisions, there is a conversation, quite a noisy shouty conversation in, in Russia. There is no conversation. What there is is 24 7 propaganda, which extols the, the regime and its leaders and, and, and Putin, but also pedals myths and dark fairytales that America wants to destroy an and occupy Russia. That the Europeans are decadent and corrupt and effeminate.

1 (21m 36s):
And, and what I also find kind of quite bewildering is that there are a few kind of prominent Americans, I shouldn't name them, but you know who I'm talking about. I sure do. Who seem to love Vladimir Putin and think that he's a kind of good example of, of what America should become, which I find quite chilling. It would be funny, where not for the fact that actually this project to, to make America into a kind of Russia or Russia light appears to be in full swing.

0 (22m 2s):
Vladimir Putin's anger, as you've described it, is in part that he thinks the West is interfering in his Russia. How is the West responding today to Alexei Navalny death?

1 (22m 12s):
Well, I mean, the West is responding with, with predictable outrage and condemnation and, and shock and, and sorrow.

25 (22m 22s):
Make no mistake. Putin is responsible for Navalny hiss death. Putin is responsible. What has happened to Navalny is yet more proof of Putin's brutality.

1 (22m 33s):
A lot of European leaders ha have, have met Navalny pesty that they've, they've seen him, he's spoken to the European parliament when he was poisoned. One of the people at his bedside was the former German chancellor and Angela Merkel. And they're not mincing words. I mean, the avians have said that Putin murdered Navalny, David Cameron, the British foreign Secretary has said that, that, that he holds the kind of Russian state responsible for, for what, what has befallen Navalny and there's a lot of condemnation. But you can see Putin kind of laughing at all of this. The, the more discomfort his enemies feel, the better it is for him. He's also made a public appearance and seems in a tremendously good mood today.

1 (23m 14s):
I mean, the question is what could the Europeans do? Well, they're already arming Ukraine. They're already trying to boost defense production and, and to make more artillery shells, which you create the Ukrainians desperately need, I think really all eyes turn to America and to Mike Johnson and to the Republicans. I mean, will this kind of shift them outta their opposition to, to Ukraine and sort of support or quasi support for Russia? Or will they just kind of ignore it and say, well, dictators kill people. That's the price of doing effective politics. I, I don know, but I think it's a kind of big moral test for those people. And let, let's see if they pass it.

0 (23m 51s):
What do you think Alexi Navani's legacy will be?

1 (23m 54s):
I think Navani's legacy is the idea. And for now it is an idea. It's not being realized that Russia can be a normal, successful democratic country where there are genuine elections where, where leaders can campaign, they can make promises, they can be held to account where there is rule of law where institutions like the police or the security services work for the people rather than against the people. Now, now that sounds almost like a utopian vision, but I think it's important because there is an argument which says Russia is so vast, such a big country, so sprawling that, that it can never be a democracy.

1 (24m 36s):
That it's impossible, that the weight of history is too great. And the value was saying, Hey guys, that's not true. We live in a modern world where people have smartphones, where there are VPN connections, where there is internet where you can make a video exposing corruption and, and 5 million people will watch it. And like it, he, he was saying that Russia doesn't have to be that sort of horrendous sort of Soviet creature, that it could turn into something kind of brighter and better. And I dunno if that's gonna happen, I would wish it to happen. But he has opened up that possibility that there, there's a, an alternative vector for Russia with the right leadership, with the right international support, and with the right politicians in Washington.

1 (25m 18s):
And so I think that's a tremendous legacy. And, and it's just a really sad day and, and, and awful that he had to pay so heavy a price to make that point.

0 (25m 33s):
That was the Guardian's Luke Harding Luke's most recent book is Invasion. It's about Russia's war in Ukraine. It's very good. Today's episode was produced by Miles Bryan and Jesse Alejandro Cottrell. Our editor is Matthew Collette. We had fact checking from Laura Bullard Amanda Luellen and Isha Artsy. Rob Byers is our engineer. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.