0 (2s):
Happy election day. Did you vote? Maybe you didn't because you've got kids and little Isabella got that RSV that's been going around and you were late for work and your boss wasn't having it. And then you had to leave early to take Isabella to the doctor, say,

1 (19s):
Oh,

0 (20s):
And when she finally went to sleep, you had to catch up on all the work you missed. And then you passed out on the couch and woke up to the results and felt really guilty about letting your democracy down. But at least you're not alone. Midterm elections are a tough sell in the United States. Turn out in 2014 was a 70 year low. Something like 36%. We did better in 2018 with about half of all eligible voters showing up. Coming up on today explained, we'll ask what this country would look like if voting was mandatory.

0 (1m 7s):
Today explained, and today's election day in the United States. So we sent out a bunch of our producers to find out whether y'all plan on voting. We started on the Staten Island ferry in New York City.

3 (1m 19s):
I don't plan to vote. They kind of do their own thing anyway. It's not like what we say is really hurt or cared for.

1 (1m 26s):
So definitely I'm planning to vote. My name's Kirby, I'm gonna vote democratic. I like the rights that they're fighting for, especially the women's rights. That's, that's an important issue right now. So I got a three year old daughter. This affects her. I got sisters, I got a mother. This all affects her. Men don't have the right to dictate what happens to women's bodies. And for my students, I just want them to have the opportunity to live in a fear and democratic society.

0 (1m 53s):
We hit the streets of Philadelphia, Na na and na na.

4 (1m 57s):
We're in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the city of brotherly love. I vote every year. I'm a registered voter. I'm 60 years old.

5 (2m 5s):
Ah, absolutely not. Not until we get a black agenda. We need reparations. We need these police who are killing people in our neighborhoods to face actual, honest to goodness consequences. When my people are taken seriously, we will

0 (2m 24s):
Vote. We went out in rural North Carolina.

6 (2m 27s):
I was just wondering if you are planning on voting later this week.

3 (2m 31s):
I am not. I don't feel like I know enough about either side to make an educated opinion or an educated vote on anything. So no,

7 (2m 39s):
I've honestly never voted before, but I was raised with my grandparents, so I felt like I was always pressured to vote, especially in their way. So it's just like, mm, I don't really do it. Now that I'm on my own, me and my friends talk about it. We kind of wanna do it now. We just haven't put any action to our words, honestly.

6 (2m 54s):
Cool. Cool. And then how are you planning on finding out that information?

7 (2m 59s):
I'm probably gonna sit down and have a smoke session with my friend. We just gonna go at it.

0 (3m 4s):
And downtown Dallas, Texas. Do you plan to vote in the 2022

8 (3m 8s):
Election? No, I'm 40 years old and I've never voted. I honestly don't feel that our voice really counts when it comes to any politics that we have, especially in our state.

0 (3m 21s):
I did already.

9 (3m 22s):
Yes, I have not. And at this time I'm not planning on it. I typically vote in, in presidential election or or larger elections at the city level. Not so much. I've done it once in my life so far.

0 (3m 32s):
Everywhere we went, we heard Hemen and Han. A lot of people were for sure gonna vote someone on the fence or outright unconvinced. And all this had us asking a question. We asked ourselves every election day today, explained what if we made this way easier for people in keeping with what's now become a tradition. We're gonna revisit an episode we made way back in our first ever midterm election year. On election day 2018. We took you all the way down to Australia where election day is a bit of a party.

10 (4m 11s):
Election day in Australia is always on a Saturday. And we pioneered Saturday voting. We thought it would be more inclusive. It's a festive sort of occasion. It's usually held in schools. There are sausage sizzles,

0 (4m 24s):
Sausage sizzles

10 (4m 25s):
Here. They call it the democracy, Sausage, democracy,

11 (4m 27s):
Sausage, The 2016 Australian Word of the

12 (4m 31s):
Year. Polling stations have become much more than a place to cast your vote with families and charities gathering for sausage, sizzles and fundraisers at voting booths across Australia.

13 (4m 42s):
Election happening hot sausage and bread. A way to go some onion.

0 (4m 47s):
It's the soundtrack of Australia.

14 (4m 49s):
And we had a lady having two sausages for cats with extra sauce for her cat.

10 (4m 52s):
Every polling place someone's serving sausages and serving them to people as they go into vote or come out voting. And it's just part of our routine. It's a barbecue. It's like a holiday occasion. What

0 (5m 4s):
If you're a vegetarian?

10 (5m 5s):
Oh, they always have a veggie burger. You know they have these websites beforehand that sort of advertise where they're gonna be and where the best sausage sizzles are gonna be and stuff like that. All lentil burgers or whatever, you

15 (5m 15s):
Know, a lot of guys laugh at it. Friends go, you know, sausage. But it's, it's a major part of your business.

10 (5m 20s):
The cues aren't long. Australians will turn up in their bathing suits, literally just a speedo or their bikini. It's not like you have to get time off work or you, you have these long cues in the state. They're only in there for 10 minutes or something and then they're out.

0 (5m 34s):
It sounds really fun. What if you're elderly or you sprained your ankle and you can't make it to the party?

10 (5m 40s):
We have mobile polling, postal polling. We can have pre polling, you can have assisted polling. So we've got electoral commissions here that are very well funded and they're also scrupulously independent. So their job is to maximize voting, inclusion, whatever. If you are approaching maternity, they'll bring out voting papers to the hospital. I take 'em out to prisons. I take 'em out to remote areas so indigenous people can vote. 15

16 (6m 4s):
Electoral offices are crisscrossing the state, covering thousands of kilometers with ballot papers in

10 (6m 9s):
Hand. We have 95% voting participation here. You just let them know and they'll help you.

0 (6m 16s):
Lisa Hills, a politics professor at the University of Adelaide in Australia, a place where voting is a party and they'll literally bring the polling station to you

10 (6m 26s):
Gladly. It's nothing they like more than getting your vote. It's not like you have to register as a particular, you know, a Democrat or Republican. There's no idea requirements. It's an honor system. It's got very low levels of corruption, extremely high levels of trust in the outcome. So you never sort of have contested outcomes because the electoral commissions are so squeaky clean and organized, extremely organized, and extremely apolitical as well.

0 (6m 52s):
You mentioned Australia has 95% turnout as it made government work any better?

10 (6m 59s):
Yeah. For example, in the nineties there was a terrible massacre, a gun massacre

17 (7m 3s):
Here. One of the most infamous days in Australia's history. Martin Bryant shot dead. 35 people at Port Arthur changed the lives of many others forever.

10 (7m 13s):
They tightened the laws on gun ownership much more strictly. Yeah. And then they got all the guns out of the system by buying guns back from people. And Australians got together and agreed that this was a good idea and surrendered their guns.

18 (7m 25s):
Australia's government confiscated and destroyed nearly 700,000 firearms, reducing the number of gun owning households by half

10 (7m 35s):
Government's responsive. And we expect action and we

0 (7m 38s):
Get it. Sounds nice

10 (7m 39s):
Because we vote. Yeah, it's not rocket science. Governments are responsive to voters. And if everybody's voting, you're gonna have a more agile and responsive parliament.

0 (7m 48s):
And what happens when you don't? What would it look like if Australia had 50% voter turnout?

10 (7m 52s):
We look like American mate. We don't want that. I'm sorry. I know you love your country, but we don't want future percent turnout. We want the poor to vote. We want homeless people to vote. We want indigenous people to vote. We want people with disabilities to vote. We want everyone to vote.

0 (8m 10s):
What do you think happens in a democracy when say half the people aren't voting? Why is voting so important for the entire population?

10 (8m 17s):
First of all, whenever you've got turnout, the dips below sort of 80, even 90, automatically your turnout will be uneven. It'll just be prosperous. People voting, homeowners, generally white people, people for whom English is the first language, the worst off you are, the less likely you are to vote in a low turnout election. And we all know the government just directs its attention to voters. So when the poor don't vote, the government just gives tax breaks to the rich and everything else to the rich and middle class people as well. So poverty starts becoming trenched. Certain minorities just can't get out of this vicious cycle of government neglect and they feel that government neglects them so they don't wanna vote.

10 (9m 2s):
The more apathetic you get, the less like you are to vote. And everyone gets themselves into a vicious cycle.

0 (9m 6s):
Sounds like a really good reason to make voting mandatory.

10 (9m 9s):
It is a good reason to make voting mandatory. It's funny you should mention that, Sean, because voting is mandatory here.

0 (9m 22s):
This whole time I thought we were talking about sausage sizzles and bringing your swimming trunks to the voting station and I thought it was just some big party in Australia. But it's totally mandatory too.

10 (9m 32s):
It's mandatory. And a big party mate

0 (9m 41s):
Coming up in the program how Australia convinced an entire country it had to vote. And could we do that here in these United States?

Shopify (10m 6s):
Support for today's show comes from Shopify. Shopify is an all-in-one commerce platform that can help start, run and grow your business. They say they make it simple to sell to anyone from anywhere. Whether your thing is vintage t-shirts or customized sneakers, you can start selling with the platform, simplifying commerce for business owners. I'm not into starting a business, it's as simple as that. But I want you to do you. So with Shopify you'll have the chance to create an online store. It captures your vibe, cultivates a new customer base and welcomes oil followers. Their platform has all the sales channels sorted so your business can keep growing from an in-person p os system. That's really what it says to an all-in-one e-commerce platform. They can even help your business grow across your social media platforms. And Shopify offers 24 7 support. You can sign up for a free trial at shopify.com/explained all lowercase. You can go to shopify.com/explain to start selling online today. shopify.com/explained

The Lost Debate (11m 12s):
Support for today's show comes from another show. This one is called the lost debate. Things are polarized right now. You may have heard that on our show on something EZ Recline made or wrote perhaps. But the strength of a given knee jerk take in such a polarized ecosystem tends to blot out more nuanced arguments. And the lost debate wants to offer something more considered. The lost debate is a program for folks who want to engage with ideas from the entire spectrum. All the way to the left, all the way to the right, maybe some of the stuff all the way on the right. You're not so interested and engage. If you're looking for a new way to escape the media echo chamber that, that so many of us are, are, are caught in, you might wanna tune in. It's hosted by a former Obama staffer, Ravi Gupta and a Gen Z libertarian and New York Post calmness named Ricky Sch Slott. They aim for conversations that are less takey and more like an actual chat between two thoughtful people looking for some middle ground. You can find the lost debate wherever you listen. Episodes drop twice a week every Tuesday and Thursday. It's on Amazon and Spotify and Apple and YouTube and wherever you get your shows.

20 (12m 29s):
So you know, I actually was radio TV so I can put on my little radio voice for you. Hey man. Do it up. Okay. Wait, what am I saying again? You're

0 (12m 38s):
Listening to

20 (12m 39s):
Today. Explain. Okay. You're listening to today Explained.

0 (12m 47s):
Today explained, revisiting an episode from 2018 with Lisa Hill, political science professor at the University of Adelaide. She's now gonna tell us how voting became compulsory in Australia.

10 (12m 59s):
It's been mandatory since 1924 in federal elections and earlier than that in state elections in the twenties, turnout dipped to below 60. We were freaking out. We thought that is egregious. It was debated for 15 minutes. That's it in the parliament. That sounds like a good idea. So we introduced compulsory voting and it shot up 95 in the first election or something like that.

0 (13m 23s):
How did Australia react? Were people upset? Were people pleased to immediately start voting? How did introducing compulsory voting change? The voter turnout?

10 (13m 33s):
I think there was a bit of grumbling, but because we had compulsory voting, then we decided we were gonna have really well funded electoral commissions. So we had these electoral commissions that made the elections quite pleasant and easy. We already had the Saturday voting. And then when everyone saw how turnout rose, government responsiveness got better and it got more responsive to everybody, people just thought, this is not a bad deal.

0 (13m 56s):
People have to vote. What happens if they don't

10 (13m 58s):
Vote? You can't make people feel like they're criminals when they fail to vote. What happens is the electoral commission sent you a letter and says, I noticed you didn't vote. And if you send a letter back saying, I was sorry about that, I was sick, it's an honor system. They don't check, You don't have to give a medical certificate or I had an accident. Okay, but if you don't respond to their letter, then you get a $20 fine.

0 (14m 19s):
Hmm. And that actually

10 (14m 20s):
Works. That's enough to make it work. Yeah, I mean cuz it's kind of symbolic. It's symbolizing that. It's the law. If you don't follow up, it doesn't work. But you've gotta follow up in a way that's not alienating people and making them feel like they're, they're a criminal, It's not criminal activity. Failing to vote. But you do have to vote because we all have to pitch in.

0 (14m 41s):
What happens if you don't pay that $20?

10 (14m 43s):
Fine, then it goes up to $50 and then if the third fine you don't pay, then you get summons to court. But say there's people that are exempt, for example, if you are homeless, homeless, you exempt from being required to vote. And also you don't get fined if you're registered and don't vote. But usually doesn't, people just usually just pay the $20 fine.

0 (15m 0s):
Is there any chance you could go to jail for not voting in Australia?

10 (15m 3s):
A couple of people in the past have spent like a day in jail. You know, I think that's a bit much myself. That hasn't happened for decades. Okay. But it has happened a couple of times and some people have deliberately got themselves put in jail. That's the thing

0 (15m 16s):
You mentioned earlier that, that the government is more responsive in Australia maybe as a result of compulsory voting. But it's not like compulsory voting will fix all your problems. Like, like poverty and corruption, right?

10 (15m 29s):
We've got poverty, we've got corruption, but just not as much as you. That's all like, I mean I'm very sure if we didn't have mandatory voting here, we'd have turnout levels in the sixties. It's not like we these awesome super people that are better and nicer than everyone else. But the law has created these norms around civic duty and responsibility. It's just like a nudge in the same way. Like you're made to wear your seatbelt, you feel that it's paternalism, but in retrospect, after you have a smash, you can see that wasn't a bad idea. Cuz if, if you ask people how they feel about it, between 70 and 75% of Australians, no matter what's going on, they'll still say that they think compulsory voting's an okay idea.

10 (16m 10s):
And there's always gonna be around 30% that don't like it. But the feeling isn't strong enough to wanna get rid of it. Cuz people aren't a hundred percent sure they would like the results, I think.

0 (16m 20s):
Do you think implementing a system like that would work here the way it seems to have worked in Australia in the 1920s?

10 (16m 26s):
Yes. It would work extremely well. And I've written a paper on this and in the paper I've argued and I think I've shown that there's no reason why you couldn't have it. Cuz some people say there are constitutional impediments or all kinds of other impediments. You can say that all you like, it's not unconstitutional. But there'd be so much resistance cuz it seems like such an alien idea to people that haven't grown up with it. Your rights culture is more pronounced than us. We're not so big on our constitutional rights and our individual rights because we're more of a parliamentary culture. It's like it was easier to take guns away from us as well. I think it could work very well in the states and it would solve so many of the problems you're having there. To be honest, your problems would be solved if minorities voted, if the poor voted.

10 (17m 8s):
You know, not all problems can be solved by voting who we are kidding. But a lot of problems would be at least ameliorated if everybody voted.

0 (17m 18s):
I can see a lot of people if, if the United States federal government, for instance, was to impose compulsory voting saying you can't tell me what to do. This is America. The federal government does not tell me where I need to be at any time or day. People

10 (17m 32s):
Always say things like, well democracy is supposed to be about freedom. It's supposed to be about volunteerism. But you know, I always say, well first of all, voluntary activity is not the defining feature of democracy. Self-government is the people being sovereign and the people really can't be sovereign if they're not all there. And then when they're all there, you get these other kinds of freedoms unleashed. Freedom to be treated without discrimination by a government instead of government pork barreling and pandering to the well off. Freedom to have a decent standard of living freedom to have free schools. A good example is taxation, which of course is quite a big infringement on personal freedom.

10 (18m 12s):
Sure. Much more so than voting, but we sort of recognize that we need to pay taxes if we wanna go on a road or get anywhere. It's no point in having all your own money if you can't go anywhere, you know, and it's not safe. You don't have security or you don't have basic services or jury duty or compulsory school education. These are all far more burdensome in positions on personal autonomy, but most people sort of accept them cuz they see that there's a collective benefit from it. And they couldn't really live a decent life unless they gave up some freedoms and contributed the tax or contributed to the jury system or sent their children to school or whatever. This is how you get democracy to work.

0 (18m 49s):
I wonder, you know, one thing I feel like compulsory voting wouldn't fix is the fact that a lot of people in this country, and I'm sure that country don't know a whole lot about their candidates who are running for office or the positions and platforms of their candidates. Has compulsory voting in Australia done anything to fix or address that?

10 (19m 10s):
Yeah, it makes people more alert. People actually do know more about their candidates here and not just here, but in other compulsory voting regimes. So living in a compulsory voting regime makes you more politically sophisticated because they know they're gonna have to vote. They just pick up a lot of incidental information. Jill Shepherd, who's a political scientist here, someone I know, she's done a study that's shown that as well. So it makes you smarter and more informed as well. But the the, the standards of comportment around elections, I think are a bit higher here. I'm sorry, I don't mean to insult your country.

0 (19m 41s):
I'm not really insulted, but somehow I feel like you're not done insulting the United States, but what other countries have tried compulsory voting? It's not just Australia, is it?

10 (19m 50s):
No, I mean, the Netherlands had it and they went along very merrily, then they got rid of it. God knows why. And then I think a lot of people regretted it. Huh? Belgium still has its Costa Rica. Vans and Samoa are just moving to it to fight corruption. Huh? There's lots of different places that have had it at various times, but you know, it's a bit hard to say unless it's sort of enforced. The two best examples would probably be Belgium, the Netherlands, who did enforce it, but they had high levels of satisfaction with it as well. Hmm. You gotta do it a certain way, otherwise you're just going to alienate people.

0 (20m 23s):
You said the Netherlands had it but then got rid of it. Why'd they get rid of it?

10 (20m 27s):
Oh, they just had a brain fart. I mean, there was no good reason. What usually happens is a party on the right gets into power and then they just maneuver to get rid of it. It's under threat here all the time by different parties that try and get rid of it. Really? Yes, because they want to control the sort of people that might vote, but here the parties on the right aren't a hundred percent sure it worked for them, but in other places they feel secure that if they got rid of compulsory voting, less poor people would vote. Which is true. Hmm. It's not that hard to do if it, if it's not enshrined in the constitution, which it isn't here, and I don't think it was there. It's just an act of parliament. But then once you get rid of it, it's very hard to bring back in.

0 (21m 7s):
Are there any other ideas out there? Alternatives to compulsory voting that would increase turnout?

10 (21m 13s):
Yeah, there's a million things you can do. You can move voting to a Saturday. You can put polling booths in shopping malls. You can give people incentives to vote, although that's, it's constitutional in most states and here too. But some American states have tried it like free donuts or free chiropractic adjustment to vote. But all the things that I could make a list of to stimulate turnout, if you did 'em all at once, you still wouldn't get the same effect that you get just with compulsory voting. That's the only thing on its own that can raise turnout into the, the 90 plus percentage range. And it's the only thing that will keep it there.

0 (21m 49s):
It certainly sounds like a great idea and it certainly seems like intrinsic to democracy and yet so many democracies were built without compulsory voting. Why do you think that is?

10 (22m 1s):
I don't know. I mean, it's actually a good question. I don't know why, but democracy's crumbling. I mean, look outside your window, mate. Yours is really in a bit of a, I'm sorry, it's not in very good shape. And so this is something that can save a democracy. Democracy is not a constitutional form. It's an activity. It's performative. And we all have to perform it because what people forget is to be a real democracy. A true democracy of the people by the people for the people has to be performed by the people.

10 (22m 41s):
And democracy requires work. Not much work, just a little bit of work. And if everyone does their fair share, you just do it 10 minutes off to the beach. That's all there is

0 (22m 54s):
A sausage sizzle.

10 (22m 55s):
A sausage, your bathers. I'm a swear God. I've got pictures of people in their bathers or in a or, you know, it's hilarious. It's something we all have to do so we can all then enjoy the benefits of living in a true democracy. So it's kind of a paradox. You have to give up a little bit of freedom to live in freedom.

0 (23m 24s):
Thanks Lisa. Wish us luck today, Huh?

10 (23m 26s):
Good luck. You're gonna

0 (23m 29s):
Need it. Thanks. Yeah, I, I hope there's high voter turnout.

10 (23m 31s):
I hope there's high turnout. Do you think there will with these elections? The last turnout was 36% rather, and I don't mean to make fun of you, but that is piss

2 (23m 41s):
Don't.

0 (23m 50s):
Professor Lisa Hill, University of Adelaide, the piss week turnout she was mocking was from the 2014 midterm election. That was the most recent midterm when I spoke to her in 2018. Her mocking must have worked though, because in 2018 we got the highest voter turnout in a midterm in a century. Here's hoping it's even higher today thanks to Amanda Lou Ellen in New York. Miles Bryan in Philadelphia, Laura Bullard in North Carolina, and Hotty Ma Wadi and downtown Dallas for going out and talking to voters for our episode today. The episode was originally produced by Noam Hassenfeld, who now hosts the Unexplainable podcast for Vox.

0 (24m 32s):
We sometimes use his music on this show as well as music from Breakmaster Cylinder. Our show today was updated by Amina Assad with help from a Shapiro and Matthew Colette. The rest of our team includes Aha Artsy, Hema sh Victoria Chamberlain, Paul Robert Moundy, and Fiona Petros, Noel King, host a show with me. I'm Sean Rams. From today Explained is on the radio across these United States in partnership with wnyc. We are part of the V Media podcast network.

20 (25m 5s):
If I wanna see changes in this world, in my community, in my area, then I have to vote.