1 (1s):
This episode is supported by hm a VPN if you've ever sheepishly asked a barista, what's the Wi-Fi password? You need a VPN? Because if you're browsing and clicking and streaming without one, your data is not as secure as it should be if you want a fast reliable VPN that doesn't log your data as you use it. You've got to check out hm a VPN. Hm a VPN encrypts your connection and protects your information from hackers. So your online comings and goings take protected and private no matter what it works across every I see you used to fiddle around on the internet and allows you to connect up to five gadgets at once. This isn't rocket science. Hm a VPN will keep you safe online plain and simple to sign up for hm a VPN now for 75% off go to hm a VPN.com

3 (46s):
deal. This episode is sponsored by a central talks a brand new podcast brought to you by SED a leading health and hygiene company essential talks is all about breaking barriers to well-being and shedding light on stigmas regarding health and hygiene fueled by ssds extensive Global Research the podcast explore stigmas all over the world about things like hand hygiene menstruation and incontinence and how we can counter them to create a healthier more Equitable world Listen to a central talks this fall on Spotify iTunes or wherever you listen to podcasts. new episodes dropping in October and

1 (1m 24s):
November travel to 20 2012. I will Nelson lots of focus on the presidential race, of course, but you cover Congress for Vox what's going on there?

3 (1m 39s):
Yeah. I mean, I think that we had a different result than a lot of people expected in Senate and House races the theories heading into the 2020 election was that if it was a big night for Biden it would also be a big night for Democratic candidates in And house races but that did not trickle down to those Senate and House

1 (2m 1s):
races. Well, let's start with the Senate. What were the expectations there? Specifically? I mean we spoke to you about whether Democrats could flip the Senate and it was certainly an expectation a lot of people had right?

3 (2m 12s):
Yeah, and I mean so we should say right now that the Senate result is still uncertain and it could be uncertain for another few months. That's because there are still races that are yet to be called. In North Carolina, Georgia and Alaska, although we should note that Alaska is a pretty heavily Republican state. What we do know is that Democrats ultimately lost a lot of the states that they were hoping to flip but they still have a very narrow potential path to a

1 (2m 44s):
majority. Okay, and I think as we currently stand we're at 48 48 48 Democratic senators 48 Republican when we talked to earlier this election season about the Senate and weather. Democrats could flip it. It seemed like the best shots. They had were in four states, which if I recall correctly you called the core for what happened to the core for so Democrats.

1 (3m 26s):
One Democrat John Hickenlooper Den BC News Now projects has won the state of Colorado and

3 (3m 34s):
Arizona Democrat Mark Kelly declared. The winner. Kelly is a former NASA astronaut and has led by a sizable margin actually four months a huge win there for Democrats. They were able to flip those two Republican

1 (3m 47s):
seats.

3 (3m 49s):
They did not do as well in Maine.

1 (3m 53s):
I am the first person

3 (3m 56s):
since Being directly elected its Senators to win a fifth term and we still don't know the results

1 (4m 5s):
in a lot of what happened in Maine Susan Collins was looking like she was really in a precarious position. And I know they also have ranked Choice voting their did that play an important role in the

3 (4m 18s):
race. Ultimately. It didn't there was a lot of speculation going into the race and election day that if Colin, And her Democratic Challenger Sarah Gideon didn't get 50% at least on Election Day. Then it would trigger an instant runoff ranked Choice voting and that could potentially benefit Gideon since the next highest third party vote getter was a progressive But ultimately, you know Collins, I think ran ahead of what all the public polling had been

1 (4m 48s):
saying latest New York Times and Siena College poll has Democrats ERA guinean with a large lead over Collins. It finds Gideon holes. 49 percent support among likely Maine voters compared to the longtime Senators

3 (5m 1s):
44% Collins is just you know, she's a longtime Senator. She's been in office. I think for over 20 years. She has a really solid brand in the state. And yeah, she was able to I think, you know get well over 50% of the vote needed to avoid ranked Choice voting and instant runoff and to beat Gideon pretty

1 (5m 23s):
handily and what about the final race of the core for? North

3 (5m 26s):
Carolina, yeah, so there's a lot we still don't know about North Carolina it it's a really close State both for the presidential and for the Senate results and basically right now, you know Republican incumbent Tom Tillis appears to be slightly ahead with Democratic Challenger Cal Cunningham trailing, but there are still a lot of outstanding votes yet to be counted and North Carolina has already said that we might not know the results for both the presidential and the senate race until next week potentially.

1 (5m 56s):
Why is that why might we not know until next week?

3 (5m 59s):
So in North Carolina votes have to be postmarked by election day, but the state allows them at least mail-in ballots to come in until the 12th. So basically they need to wait for all of those melon balls to come in and then count them and that should be done by next week.

1 (6m 13s):
So if till is pulls through in North Carolina, what does that mean for control of the Senate? What will it look like?

3 (6m 20s):
So if Tillis wins in North Carolina, that means that Democrats passed shrinks that much more basic Polly but they still have a very narrow and you know, I will say they would be the underdogs in this scenario. I think but they do have a narrow path that goes through

1 (6m 37s):
Georgia, Georgia. What's up in George? So there are two Georgia

3 (6m 42s):
Senate races one was a race between Democrat John Asif and Republican. Senator David Perdue. The other one is a special election between Republican. Senator Kelly Leffler. There's no room in this country for races. But this isn't what the black lives matter political organization is about. They want to abolish the police completely within five years and we can see what's happening across the country with this threat of defunding the police and Democrat rev Raphael Warnock

1 (7m 12s):
will sick and tired of spending New Haven with say we're sick and tired of I'm sick and tired. While black folks so tired we are tired because we cannot get any rest. The special election result. We already know is

3 (7m 28s):
going to run off that was a special election where there were like 20 candidates running Georgia has this system known as a jungle primary where like all of the parties are on the ballot. It's not just Democrats versus Republicans. So we already know that less learn Warnock are going to a runoff that will be decided on January 5th. Then there's the awesome. Purdue raised well, perhaps

1 (7m 49s):
Senator Perdue would have been able to respond properly to the covid-19 pandemic. If you hadn't been fending off multiple Federal investigations for insider trading you did say covid-19 was no deadlier than the flu. You did say there would be no significant uptick in cases all the while. You were looking after your own assets and you did vote for times to end protections for pre-existing conditions. That's just, you know,

3 (8m 14s):
Democrat Republican

1 (8m 17s):
the most Insidious thing to Chuck Schumer and Joe Biden are trying to perpetrate and Barney and Elizabeth and come on. What come on Laura. Come on Malcolm mama. Mama mama, I don't know whatever and then there's also a

3 (8m 28s):
Libertarian candidate that is receiving a small number of the ballads, but you might have been

1 (8m 33s):
noticing something as we were giving you those Georgia results. Both candidates are now below the 50% Mark in Georgia, and there is a stipulation in the peach state that had no federal candidate receives 50% was Vote on the election the top two vote-getters advance to a runoff of

3 (8m 53s):
course things could change but it looks like the rest of the votes that are coming in are from predominantly Democratic areas. So it looks like as of now both Georgia Senate races are headed to a runoff which will be decided on January 5th 2021.

1 (9m 9s):
And if the Democrats were to win both of those that seems like a long shot, but what would that mean for the balance in the Senate? You're right.

3 (9m 17s):
It is a long shot. Shot but if Democrats won both of those day would be at a 50-50 split Democrats and Republicans. But well we have to remember that if Joe Biden wins the presidency the vice president becomes the Senate President and so vice president Kamala Harris would essentially be the tiebreaker vote in any, you know, 50-50 split in the Senate so that would give Democrats the barest majority.

1 (9m 48s):
The ball in the US Senate and what would that barest of leads mean for like the Democratic legislative agenda?

3 (9m 54s):
I mean it would certainly mean that they might have to kind of dial back their Ambitions a little bit. You know Democrats have had a really like they have their eyes on a lot of priorities that need to happen. I mean, I think number one is more covid-19 relief number two is, you know, a jobs Bill to kind of get the economy stimulated a little bit more and get more people back to work but Yeah, I mean they're going to have to talk to Republicans more. They're probably going to have to be more bipartisan compromise then they may have initially wanted in the first place.

1 (10m 27s):
And so, you know ending the filibuster packing the Supreme Court all of these wildly ambitious, perhaps a little politically unorthodox ideas not going to happen

3 (10m 37s):
when we don't know for sure. It depends, you know, if they do have that tiebreaker vote and they do have 51 votes and they do have a simple majority and ending the filibuster. Is something that would happen with a simple majority so it still is possible if they you know win both of these Georgia races or when the North Carolina Senate race, it is possible but it is looking a little bit more unlikely than it did a few days ago and the

1 (11m 4s):
likeliest scenario here. We should just note is that Republicans maintain control of the

3 (11m 9s):
Senate? Yeah. I mean if Republicans maintain their hold in Georgia and maintain their hold in North Carolina, then then yes, they will maintain control. Role of the Senate should be noted that Republicans pretty easily flipped the Alabama senate seat, which Democrat Senator Doug Jones was holding, but they weren't able to pick off Democratic. Senator Gary Peters in Michigan. So yeah, it's just very close, but it is definitely possible that Mitch McConnell will remain Senate Majority Leader.

1 (11m 42s):
Up next the call is coming from inside the house. I'm Sean Rama's firm. Its to explain. This is Advertiser content. We now have 2.3 million people incarcerated in America less than seven percent of them are incarcerated for violent

3 (12m 14s):
crime. That's attorney Jeffrey Robinson director of the ACLU trone Center for justice and equality his work inspired the making of who we are a podcast by Ben & Jerry's and produced by Vox creative who we are a Chronicle of racism in God is hosted by Peabody award-winning journalist Carvel Wallace,

1 (12m 34s):
surely you knew this was a racist country. What does that mean for us today?

3 (12m 39s):
The prison population in the United States has increased seven hundred percent since 1970. Black Americans make up almost 40% of

1 (12m 47s):
it. We didn't get here by accident. I didn't know these things because I hadn't been taught them. And then the question is why wasn't I taught them because this information it may be hidden, but it's hiding in plain

3 (13m 4s):
sight who we are takes historic look at the disease of racism in America and traces it back to its tipping points. This includes the Tipping Point. We're at today.

1 (13m 13s):
I think Americans are watching and thinking and looking at this issue in ways, they never have before and that's why I say, this is our last Best chance because if we don't get it right this time where America is headed is someplace I don't think anybody wants to go.

3 (13m 31s):
How do we make our last best chance count Listen to Who We Are a podcast by Ben & Jerry's and produced by box creative now streaming wherever you get your

1 (13m 40s):
podcasts. Support for the show today comes from who we are, you know elections are all about who we want to be but who we are is all about how we got here. It's a new podcast by Ben and Jerry's and it's examining parts of American history that we don't learn much about in school based on ACLU legal Deputy, Jeffrey Robinson's acclaimed presentation of the same name who we are is a Chronicle of racism in America that dissects the systems that have allowed white supremacy to thrive. 400 years and counting each week Robinson and Peabody award-winning journalist Carvel Wallace breakdown the past and ongoing impact of slavery and white supremacy on some of the most pressing issues of our time like voter suppression like the racial wealth Gap like health care and much much more new episodes of who we are are on Tuesdays and you can listen And subscribe right now on Stitcher app podcast Spotify, whatever you're using.

1 (14m 47s):
20 20 20 20. Hello. We just talked about the Senate. Let's talk about the house Democrats held control of the House of

3 (14m 59s):
Representatives. Yes so far. It looks like Democrats are going to retain their control of the House of Representatives. But right now it looks like they're majority might actually be smaller than it used to be

1 (15m 11s):
right which I think comes as a bit of surprise when compared to expectations here. People were talking about a blue. Wave what happened?

3 (15m 19s):
So there are a few factors that sort of went into Republicans. Good night in the

1 (15m 25s):
house six Republican women had flip seats from Democrats in places like South Carolina South, Florida, Minnesota places across the country. That's a big win Republican when women had been trying to win seats for years. They've largely failed this time they

3 (15m 41s):
succeeded and you can remember that in 2018 Democratic women candidates overperformed men. And it was you know kind of known as the year of the woman. So 2020 sort of might be known at least in the house as the year of the Republican woman. The other thing too is that we saw in some of the early presidential returns that Joe Biden was looking a bit weaker than expected with Hispanic voters, especially in States like Florida and Texas and that was true for Democrats down ballot as well. They actually lost a couple of House Seats in Florida kind of in the Miami area to see They had gained in 2018 and we saw that Biden was also doing weaker-than-expected in Miami-Dade County and then Democrats also, they didn't lose any incumbents in Texas, but they had 10 targeted districts to flip in Texas, and they didn't flip any of them, which is kind of spinning considering that you know, that was sort of like Democrats top Target.

3 (16m 40s):
They were pretty bullish on it the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee had opened an in-person field office in Austin, Texas. Texas so they were really devoting a lot of resources and that just didn't pan out for them.

1 (16m 52s):
What was the reason was it because Biden didn't appear as strong as trumped in a lot of these Congressional races, or was it something else? So I think it was a

3 (17m 1s):
combination of maybe people under estimating the strength that Trump had with with down ballot voters and and the fact that he kind of acted a little bit as a turnout machine for House and Senate Republicans. And then also yeah this potential split ticket effect where People may have assumed that Biden was going to do better on the presidential level. And so they kind of wanted to have a little bit of a check on his power in the legislative branch.

1 (17m 27s):
So all told how many seats did the Democrats lose and win here

3 (17m 33s):
right now and of course these numbers could change the Democrats lost a little under 10 seats, but they also flipped three including to Open House Seats in North Carolina and then one seat in Georgia. That was a

1 (17m 47s):
Conceit will that make a difference legislatively

3 (17m 51s):
it could but if Democrats still have 218 votes, you know, they can still pass Party Line votes out of the house. I think that sort of the the biggest difference legislatively might sort of be the Dynamics between the democratic-led house. And if the Senate remains in Republican hands that then the republican-controlled Senate because then that would still be you know, split control of government and Congress it would mean that there would To be bipartisan negotiating on bills and you know McConnell made it very clear that he wasn't interested in taking up any of the democratic bills that the house passed in 2019 and 2020. So there could sort of continue to be the sense of what I like to call legislative Paralysis on Capitol Hill where there's just not a lot of stuff getting

1 (18m 37s):
done is this going to lead to any you know serious reflection in the Democratic party where you know expectations were set so high and then ended up falling I'm pretty short.

3 (18m 48s):
There's already been some chatter about you know, replacing the person who is head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which is the campaign arm for house Democrats. And one of the names floating around is Latino member of Congress as worth noting that the Latino member of Congress controlled the the D Triple C in 2018 when they had such a good year, obviously, you know, I think that there is definitely going to be some reflection on where they need to make up ground. Going into 2022 which is going to be you know, another really pivotal midterm year.

1 (19m 23s):
So all told the Democrats look like they maybe had a disappointing result in the Senate but even our episode were talking about whether Democrats could flip the Senate. I mean we were considering it as a somewhat unlikely scenario. So is this basically what people expected like a Biden win a GOP majority in the Senate and a democratic majority in the house was this the most discussed scenario all I'll told

3 (19m 49s):
I mean, I think that it probably could have been discussed a little bit more. There was a lot of excitement around the Senate races because Democrats had expanded I think their number of paths but it probably was worth repeating more that a lot of these races were just in very Republican states. I mean, you know, even Georgia is historically a really Republican state a lot of the hype and alot of money went to candidates like Amy McGrath and Kentucky and Rehearsing in South Carolina who you know they may have been fundraising a lot and you could argue that Harrison made that race more competitive for Democrats than had been in past years, but there is still fundamentally very Republican states with the barrier Republican electorate that like Donald Trump.

3 (20m 34s):
And so I think that you know amidst all of the hype there probably could have been a bigger - of reality as far as you know, just the the electorate in a lot of

1 (20m 47s):
these states and there was so much hype for the Senate races in particular and so much money tens of millions record-setting money dumped into those races could some of the fundraising have been better distributed to maybe help the Democrats in house races and Texas over, you know, trying to unseat Mitch McConnell and Lindsey Graham, which was just extremely unlikely to begin

3 (21m 9s):
with. Oh, yeah, I mean both and house races and also, you know State Legislature races where Democrats also didn't have a good night. And state legislators very much matter when it comes to the house because state legislators often are the ones that are going to be drawing new congressional districts in 2021 based off of the the senses. So yeah, you know money could have gone elsewhere rather than in South Carolina or Kentucky, and it probably would have gone further and maybe would have netted a different result for Democrats in other places.

1 (21m 46s):
That just makes me wonder. Or is this like a leadership issue? Is this bad strategy on the part of the Democrats?

3 (21m 53s):
It could be I think that there is definitely you know, some conversations that have to be had at the level of you know, Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi as far as what went wrong what they might need to do next time. I mean Democrats in the senate in particular have been on a losing streak, you know, they've been out of power for the last six years. They could be out of power for at least two more years. If not Longer there definitely needs to be some conversations as to how they're missing. What what ways they need to do better. But also, I mean, it's just the the Senate is tough.

1 (22m 28s):
All the time

3 (22m 30s):
more power is is concentrated in more Republican states. Basically, I don't think at least for Nancy Pelosi's part that she's going to get a serious leadership challenge. I don't know about Schumer, but we'll have to

1 (22m 44s):
see Ella nilson, she's covering all the election things along with the rest of the Fox News Room over at vox.com more tomorrow on Today. Explain.

3 (23m 22s):
We are all born with a unique genome our own personal blueprint. Unfortunately a mutation in just one gene can lead to a debilitating disease often with limited treatment options enter Novartis a global Healthcare company that's reimagining medicine. Sometimes massive challenges require microscopic Solutions. Novartis is exploring the boundaries of science

1 (23m 50s):
with cell and Gene.

3 (23m 51s):
Therapies that address disease at its source in other words personalized medicine.

1 (23m 57s):
So it's really one of the My Mind One of the

3 (23m 59s):
most promising advances in medicine to me. It's like a new are almost this revolutionary approach has the potential to transform life for patients with a variety of diseases some cell and Gene therapies might even be cures medicine is changing to learn more check out Novartis satcom

1 (24m 19s):
today. Did you know that simply being online releases carbon the internet like so many parts of modern society runs on electricity. And today the electric grid Creed's carbon emissions. Google is trying to stop those emissions from your online activity before they start the company aims to run on 24/7 carbon-free energy by 2030 everywhere. They operate by moving beyond carbon-based sources of energy and focusing on solar wind and other Clean Energy Technologies goo Google is working to create a model for how tech companies and industries at large can reduce emissions and make a real impact on climate change learn more about Google's most ambitious decade yet at g dot Coast carbon-free.