2 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from peacock. It's the new streaming service from NBC and before you dismiss it because you need another streaming service like you need a coffee table in your bathroom. Think about this peacock is totally free check out peacock and get the best of screaming and the best of TV you can watch for free and upgrade for even more on your TV tablet or phone go to Peacock tv.com to download and start streaming now.

2 (42s):
The pandemic is going from bad to worse in the United States. The White House appears to be at war with falchi. And the CDC. The CDC appears to be at war with itself were hovering around 60,000 new reported cases a day. The Governor of Oklahoma just tested positive for covid hospitals are filling up states are shutting down July. Starting to feel like March things are so bad. Now that even places that did a good job initially look to be in bad shape case in point California on today's show. We're going to explain how the Golden State went from shiny example on a hill to cautionary tale.

2 (1m 23s):
Dr. Robert walked her from the University of California in San Francisco is going to do a lot of leg work. Well begins probably like everyone else is Journey. We saw what was happening in China in in January and and California. So interconnected with China, I think we knew there was every reason to believe that we were going to get hammered big diverse lots of travel with with Asia lots of travel connecting us with Europe. I mean sort of the mood that you know, when earthquakes could have hit but except we never know that my metaphor was I was standing on a beach waiting for the tsunami and I could see the peak of the Waves over the horizons and that's there was no good reason to think that California was not going to be State that was most hammered by

1 (2m 7s):
this

2 (2m 10s):
and then I think an interesting thing happened in late February early March. There was a notice in the news that Google and Twitter and Salesforce and Facebook are really the big tech companies in the Bay Area. We're all telling their workers to stay at home. We know that Facebook Google LinkedIn. Those are three major tech companies. They are now strongly recommending their employees. Work from home a Facebook is also strapping Albury events and telling workers to cancel all business travel and I remember seeing that and I said that's kind of interesting because you know, we were worried about it and we thought it could the pandemic could be bad. But when it's over there, there's always this feeling like, you know, maybe it's not going to hit us so badly we've seen scares before they don't always play out, but then you say alright.

2 (2m 57s):
Google's telling people to stay home. Google has an international footprint. They're smarter than I am the All the data in the universe when they're telling people to stay home. This must be serious stuff the Bay Area went to lock down on March 16th and the state of California did on March 19 what it means people cannot leave their homes here for at least a month except for Essentials grocery stores Banks pharmacies a food delivery services will all keep operating and there are exceptions for emergency services. Even the media it was aggressive. It was early and they guessed right it was Sort of a remarkable feeling where it was kind of like we were bracing for this for the tsunami and we're seeing little wavelets that are going up to our mid knees, but we're not seeing any anything like what they're seeing in New York.

2 (3m 46s):
What was it specifically that prevented California from seeing huge surges early on was it that people stayed at home? Was it that the virus never actually ended up spreading that much in the outset. I think you had four things that worked in California you had these Leaders acting early and aggressively you had political leaders acting early and aggressively and I think quite courageously you had the people listening taking it seriously doing the right thing without a whole lot of blowback and the fourth thing is luck. If California had had New York's per capita death rate over the first three months that would have been that would have amounted to 55,000 more deaths in California.

2 (4m 35s):
So the fact that California people said to me sometimes did we waste March April and May by you know doing so well if we're going to get hit now and the answer is first of all, no because you'd rather be hit now then then hit March their capacity is better now we built up Hospital. As he testing contact tracing we have a couple of medicines that are modestly effective. So, you know a delay is better than nothing. But the other thing is, you know, California did so remarkably well in those first few months that if we had had the same deaths per population is New York that would have been almost 60,000 additional deaths. It feels like the narrative begins to shift in May.

2 (5m 15s):
There's drama over the beaches. There's a ban on going to some beaches people pushed back. Was it a mistake to sort? A pivot towards reopening in May to be perfectly reasonable to begin opening up in May but the Hope was that as we opened people would continue to act. Well it people would continue to say this is a real threat. We have to take it super seriously and I think that's where we now got it wrong where people began to feel like the the fact that we're opening means we're out of the woods look at us how wonderful we are. You know, how great we did a lot of self-congratulation Relations a little bit of oh, that's terrible.

2 (5m 56s):
What happened in New York? We're lucky it never happened to us and it's not going to happen to us and the virus couldn't care less that you had a great March April and up till mid May the virus is just waiting for an opportunity to pounce and starting in mid-may and particularly in early June. We gave it that opportunity. What was the result? Well the result was we began to see a spike in cases lo and behold I mean a lot of this is very predictable and very mathematical. It's like okay, you know, there's an increase in cases what's going to happen next well in a week or so you're going to start seeing an increase in hospitalizations and then we started seeing an increase in hospitalizations and well, well, you know more more cases some more hospitalizations, but maybe it's not so bad because these are all young healthy people.

2 (6m 48s):
Who are you? Not following the rules and they're not going to get that sick. We won't see deaths and then lo and behold you begin starting to see begin to start to see increases in deaths. And we also have a grim number here from California a hundred and forty nine people died of the coronavirus today here in the state. That is the highest daily death toll that we have seen since the pandemic began here. The deaths are still lagging behind the cases and hospitalizations, but if you look at what's happened in, Florida and Arizona And Texas, they had the same lag and now they're seeing significant spikes spikes and deaths. It's patchy. It's not it's not equal throughout all of California.

2 (7m 30s):
You saw certain Counties have big surges. Whereas other counties including San Francisco where I live we're mellower, but the other thing we came to recognize is the state is very interconnected. So there's a huge surge in a county a relatively rural County called Imperial County down on this. Mexican border that has mostly to do with cross-border traffic people coming back and forth across from Mexico and you might say well that's 600 miles away from San Francisco. Well, it turns out they overwhelm their Hospital in their ICU capacity very quickly. Those patients got transferred to hospitals in San Diego and Los Angeles and actually believe it or not some of them in San Francisco.

2 (8m 12s):
So there are no walls here. If you start seeing outbreaks in one part of the state that's going to that's going to metastasize to other parts of the state and that's what We began to

3 (8m 20s):
see

2 (8m 24s):
how is California's leadership responding. Let's Governor Gavin Newsom doing now. Well starting about two weeks ago. He began getting increasingly stirred interesting sort of watching the the kind of stern dad thing. I don't mean to be patronizing or paternalistic about all of this. I'm just working with local Health officials dealing with the data the science trying to mitigate as we were so successful. Getting the spread of this disease by by tempering that growth of the curve and the beginning we need to do that again. We will do that again, and it's really going to be up to each and every one of you then you started seeing public service announcements about masks and things like that.

2 (9m 5s):
So do you apart don't let covid when wear a mask just do it just do it. That was it was cute, but I think one of the things that has struck me is, you know, my instinct is we need Answers to get people to do the right thing. And so, you know to me it's like let's get let's get Springsteen with a mass. Let's get Tom Hanks with a mask. And then I realized you're on a 62 year old guy. I don't have any idea who an influencer is for 25 year old, you know, they're they're all people. I'm quite confident. I've never heard of but Tom Hanks is cross-generational. Okay, that's comforting to hear wear a mask wash your hands social distance if you can't do That I don't have much respect for it.

2 (9m 52s):
So Hanks is on board. Governing Newsom is getting more Stern what happens next? What happens this week this week on Monday. He took the about 30 counties that represent about 70% of the population of California and back them down in terms of what is what they're allowed to keep open and for all of California, he closed things like indoor dining and bars. And so, you know, it was a step backwards not quite two full full lockdown not quite to shelter in place, but much more where we were in early may not on open economy or off shut down but a dimmer switch looking at conditions throughout the nation's most populous state as they present themselves as those trend lines become points of concern before they invariably become headlines, you know people talk About the surge in California and kind of put surges in one bucket and say California.

2 (10m 56s):
It's almost California, Texas Arizona Florida, which is not entirely accurate because if you look at the surge in California, it's about a little less than half of what they're seeing in Texas and almost in about a third of what they're seeing in Florida and Arizona, so it's not nearly as disastrous. We're not seeing hospitals that are overrun yet the way they are in Houston and and in Miami in certain parts of Florida, but it's enough that And I think responsible governance is to say that we're going in the wrong direction the ground rules here all along where we open up and we see how it goes and if it's going badly we go backwards and that's precisely what he's doing and we got to figure out how to make this work if people can't follow the rules and the standards to keep everybody healthy.

2 (11m 38s):
Then we're going to have to keep the economy shut down more than any of us would like to do you think it'll work I do I you know, I think what California approved in March April and early May is that as a state the people and the government are capable of acting well, and I what I believe and I and maybe this I hope this maybe a little bit of wishful thinking but I believe is that we've had our come-to-jesus moment now and if everybody Plays well and wears masks and keeps their distance then I think we're in a good position to get this under control in the next two or three weeks and then begin to open up more slowly.

2 (12m 26s):
But you know, one of the things about this virus is it just constantly surprises us. More with dr. Wachter after a quick break on today

1 (12m 38s):
explained.

2 (12m 52s):
Support for the show as I told you at the top of the show comes from peacock and peacock has a lot to offer its the new streaming service from NBC but it isn't just like NBC TV shows are going to find they've got movies who likes movies. I like movies. They got the Matrix. They got do the right thing. They've got The Big Lebowski. They got Reservoir Dogs. They've got they've got Jurassic Park. Did you know the Only reason the Toronto Raptors are called the Toronto Raptors is because they held a vote on what they should call the team and like the mid-90s and of course all of the kids were like hello call it call it the Raptors after Jurassic Park the Raptors were incredible killing machines.

2 (13m 41s):
And now the Toronto Raptors are the NBA world champions. Anyway, check out peacock. It's totally free and they've got Jurassic Park, it's the best of streaming and the best of TV you can watch for free and upgrade for even more on your TV tablet or phone go to Peacock tv.com to download and start

1 (14m 1s):
streaming now.

2 (14m 13s):
Dr. Wachter you mentioned that the spikes in California aren't as bad as the ones in places like Arizona, Texas, Florida what sets California apart from those States other than you know, sort of avoiding this situation back in March. I think probably the biggest thing is the politics, you know, it is wherever you live on the political Spectrum blue to Red. It is clear that Democratic Governors and Democratic states. tended to take the virus more seriously and have attended to take the the need for relatively strict Public Health measures more seriously and kind of believed in the whole thing California sort of makes that explanation little bit more nuanced and says that that's probably a little bit what's going on, but probably more what's going on is the states that got hammered early tended to be big Coastal States that had a lot of international travel New York first among them and the states that are getting hammered now are the states that didn't get hammered the first time rather than a political issue.

2 (15m 14s):
It's more a matter of complacency. If you if you survive for three months and did well the normal human condition is to say this is not that big a deal. I want my former life back and I'm going to go back to it particularly if I'm young and I see myself as being relatively not too vulnerable to the disease. When you look at these other states like Texas or Arizona and Florida and compare their politics to California. What do you see as the most sort of jarring? Frances in the approach to this right now. It's hard to pin it on one thing. I mean if you're a person in Arizona, you got a message early on that. This is not serious that we have to save the economy. I want to encourage people to get out and about to take a loved one to dinner to go retail shopping.

2 (15m 60s):
If you don't have an underlying health condition, it's safe out. There. We are in Phase 1 a lot of these rules are from you know, pointy-headed intellectuals and it's not happening. To us and it's not going to happen to us. That masks are for sissies wearing a face mask as a great presidents Prime Ministers dictators kings queens. I don't know somehow I don't see it for myself. I just I just maybe I'll change my mind if you hear that message from anybody who wouldn't Embrace that it's like of course. I thought that's what I want. I mean, they the fact that we set this up as the as this sort of duality of you're either in favor of the public.

2 (16m 40s):
Health or you're in favor of the economy is so wrongheaded and I think we're seeing that now if the virus is not under control the economy is in is in the tank friend of mine. The other day said to me, you know, the virus is a great teacher and I said, yes, but and the but was I said fire is a great teacher you stick your finger into those on the stove. It hurts like hell you're going to pull it out and you're never going to do that. Again. The virus isn't a a teacher because you can act badly for a while get away with it and say oh, you know, I was right the governor was right Fouch he's wrong, you know, all these people are getting hysterical or is something about what happened in New York.

2 (17m 26s):
That's particular to New York. And then you know, I've acted what they what they say is badly, you know for the last month and I've been fine and everybody I know is fine. I don't know babies died of this thing, you know, it's whether you say it's a hoax or it's just overrated whatever it is. And to me I've liked in this a little bit to a Vegas casino that that you know, you can win a few hands and you think you know, look I'm better than the house. Well, you're not better than the house and if you play enough hands the house wins and the house here is the virus and and and so, you know, we will look back on this and the history books and look at the behavior the political Behavior and the behavior of the people in places like like Texas and Arizona and Florida and say, you know, they all acted badly.

2 (18m 10s):
We but in many ways they're their bad behavior was reinforced for two or three months, which is a lot of reinforcement to say. Look. I'm I'm doing what they all the experts say. I shouldn't do this. I'm doing it and I'm doing fine and then that all works until you know until you hit the iceberg and and that's what's happening now, right? Yeah, we hit the iceberg and as the ship sinks were still fighting over whether we need to wear life jackets. Somehow. This is still an Us Versus Them Fight in the United States. It's nuanced. It's like yes, of course, we want the virus Tamp down to the gray possible and we want to open up the economy to the degree possible. And that is a you know, Razor's Edge kind of set of decisions, but the best we can do is go with the evidence and make the best decisions we can and the fact that you know, the attempts to bring Xiao Qi down our fascinating in a stunning development some Administration officials are treating him like a political rival release.

2 (19m 10s):
Sing what they say is a list of questionable statements by dr. Fouch even though many of them were taken out of context or widely accepted in the early days of the pandemic because you can go back in February and March and see things that people said experts said that have turned out to be wrong including things that I said because we've learned more so it's one thing to evolve with the science and I think masts are a great example where the science was not super clear in March we Know about super spreaders. We didn't know about asymptomatic cases and CH and transmission it all bunch of things. We didn't know so you can always go back and look at the statements of people, you know and say looks out.

2 (19m 52s):
She said that in February that she said it because that was the best science at the time but you know science has to evolve politics often doesn't and once you see this through a political lens you're in grave danger of making very bad decisions and you may get a Away with it for a while. And I think that's what's happened in some of these states. They got away with it for a while. They came to believe that you know, it was the right call and they are paying the price now and that's why it's going to be fascinating to see whether they're able to turn it around, you know can to can the leaders change their messaging without feeling like they're doing themselves massive political damage, you know my own biases the political damage of being responsible for thousands and thousands of deaths is probably worse than the polka.

2 (20m 40s):
Image of saying I'm sorry. I had it wrong a few months ago. But now we understand the right thing to do. Yeah, that's my bias to I wonder as a medical professional who surely encounters medical professionals abroad are a lot of them shaking their heads and asking you what the heck is going on in the United States. Oh absolutely Florida has more cases than Europe and you know, they were all hit quite badly a few months ago, but they quickly got their acts together and you know, there are a lot of people in In other countries that shake their heads at the United States independent of there's so many reasons that this is just one more thing, but it's one more thing that sort of you know, that that strongly overlaps with the recent.

2 (21m 22s):
They were shaking their head. It turns out that the United States is uniquely bad at fighting a pandemic now, it shouldn't be you know, you think about some of the natural advantages that we've squandered here, you know, the CDC is a world-class organization our ability to Ramp up manufacturing for things like PPE or new drugs or vaccines. So, you know, our scientific Enterprise is unparalleled but pandemics are tests of

3 (21m 53s):
everything.

2 (21m 57s):
They test your science. They test your your Society. They test your politics. They test your resolve. They test the ability to move from a society tends to be very individual. We based to one in which people are going to be willing to accept rules that are imposed on them and standards that are posed by other people and the fact that we are so partisan and so individualistic and and that there's so many people among us who see anything that's coming from some Central Authority is something that they immediately have antibodies to puts us in a pretty bad position and then you know, all of those things are magnified in the curandera so we couldn't have been less well prepared.

2 (22m 40s):
Are to handle this in a good way and I think unfortunately sadly it's playing out at a cost of you know, at the end there will be hundreds of thousands of people that will have died that really didn't need

3 (22m 51s):
to. Dr. Robert

2 (22m 58s):
walked her is a professor and the chair of the Department of Medicine at the University of California in San Francisco. I'm Sean Rama's Forum. It's today

3 (23m 7s):
explained.

2 (23m 23s):
The show is over, which means it's time for you to go do something else. Maybe check out peacock. They're supporting the show today. It's the new streaming service from NBC. They've got Saturday Night Live which is in the off season right now, but you can go watch some older episodes. You can check out The Bourne Identity Law and Order SVU. It's all there. It's all free waiting for you to go watch it streaming now peacock. Check it out. You can watch for free upgrade for even more from your TV tablet or phone go to Peacock. VDOT cam to download and start streaming now.