1 (12s):
We have breaking news Iran's revolutionary guard says that it has launched ballistic missiles in the direction of American air bases in Iraq where US troops are stationed Iranian State television says the attack was launched in Revenge for the US assassination of the Iranian General. All gasp mmm soleimani

2 (32s):
missiles fire tonight part of what A-Rod is now calling operation. Martyr soleimani McDonald's loans for inside Iran struck to air bases in Leadville and al-assad. Just west of Baghdad. We have learned one of the bases targeted Asad Airbase in Western Iraq, and on bar President Trump and the first lady visited a little more than a year ago in December of 2018. Jane Williams Vox how much damage did these missiles do last

1 (57s):
night? So we don't yet know the damage to the facilities themselves the US military in the Iraqis are still kind of figuring that out and they haven't really made anything clear on that but we do know about casualties and according to Nato forces who are part of the you know Coalition that's involved there with the US according to the US and according to the Iraqi prime minister. There were no casualties among any of the US troops any of the Iraqi forces who were there or any of the

2 (1m 22s):
international forces Is it still a big deal that Iran chose to launch these ballistic

1 (1m 27s):
missiles the fact that they decided to fire ballistic missiles from Iran is a very important Point as opposed to as opposed to using their proxy groups. These like Shia militia groups that are backed by Iran inside Iraq. They typically do it. That way. They will have these groups fire Rockets toward, you know, us facilities are rocky facilities and that kind of creates a level of plausible deniability, right? We didn't do it. It was just these groups over. There we have nothing to do with them. But this was a very clear message. It was we are sending these from Iran. They are directly targeting us facilities and we are very clear that we are very angry about the killing of qasem soleimani and we're making no bones about it.

1 (2m 7s):
And the

2 (2m 8s):
Iranian government has issued statements about this attack. What are they explicitly saying?

1 (2m 13s):
They are saying that this is a proportionate response for the killing of qasem soleimani the Iranian senior military commander that the u.s. Assassinated they are saying that this is A concluded response. So Iranian foreign minister Javad. Zarif said we executed this attack, but we have concluded it. So they're very strongly signaling that this was our response. We had to respond and they did the Iranians basically had no choice but to respond to the killing of such a high-level military commander, but they're also saying look we are doing this big show of force, but we are stopping at the line of actually killing any Americans or any Rockies for that matter

2 (2m 51s):
the United States killed. Old Iran's like foremost military leader and their Revenge was peppering some bombs with mixed results that killed nobody not that this is like death toll for death toll but was this sort of a more hesitant response from Iran Iran

1 (3m 11s):
definitely could have done a lot more and they chose not to they have a lot of ways that they can strike against Americans and American Allies in the region including Israel, and they threatened to do so last night while we were watching this unfold. They were issuing all kinds of threats saying if the u.s. Responds again, then you know, we could potentially launch a terrorist attack inside the United States which they could theoretically do they were saying, you know, we could attack Targets in Israel. They specifically named the city of Haifa. They also said they could attack Dubai but they chose not to

2 (3m 42s):
how did President Trump react

1 (3m 44s):
so somewhat surprisingly last night. He reacted fairly positively

2 (3m 48s):
lots of exclamation points, right?

1 (3m 50s):
Yeah. He tweeted quote all is well mrs. Has launched from Iran at two military bases located in Iraq, and you wouldn't think those two statements would really go together. All is well Iran just fired missiles at us, but he said later in the Tweet so far so good and bragged about having the most powerful military, but in that tweet last night, he also said I will be making a statement tomorrow morning and he did today a little bit after 11 o'clock from the White House. So he walked out to the podium. He's flanked by all of his top generals military brass and Mike Pence looking very somber and he walked right out to the microphone and said as

2 (4m 28s):
long as I'm president of the United States, Iran will never be allowed to have a nuclear weapon. Good morning. He said that first quite a breakfast

1 (4m 40s):
is very odd. It was kind of important to what he was going to get into later on. But there were three main points that really stood out to me from Trump's speech. The first is that he made it very clear that there's not going to be any big US military response to Iran's attacks last night

2 (4m 55s):
Iran appears to be standing down which is a good thing for all parties concerned and a very good thing for the world. He was

1 (5m 4s):
very clear in saying this ends here in terms of the Big military fight. However, he did say so other things that could be taken as escalation at a little bit lower level.

2 (5m 16s):
The United States will immediately impose additional punishing economic sanctions on the Iranian regime these powerful sanctions will remain until Iran changes its

1 (5m 29s):
behavior that is not D escalation that is escalation. He is putting even more sanctions on Iran and then he addressed the Nuclear deal, it's called the jcpoa that joint comprehensive plan of action the u.s. Withdrew from that deal already, but other countries still remain in it, including the UK Germany France, Russia China and

2 (5m 48s):
they must now break away from the remnants of the Iran deal or jcpoa.

1 (5m 54s):
That's really important because under that deal those countries plus the United States when we were still in the deal basically agreed to lift economic sanctions and give it run economic benefits in exchange for them putting curbs on the

2 (6m 7s):
Program so

1 (6m 7s):
we essentially calling on those countries to like reimpose sanctions stop doing business any business with Iran and go back to a much more hardcore like economic pressure against Iran. So again in that case not deescalate or E. Quite the opposite.

2 (6m 22s):
You've been waiting, you know for 12 hours for the president's remarks sure. What was your major takeaway? From what he said?

1 (6m 27s):
So the big takeaway is that everyone can breathe a sigh of relief for now that the big scary bombing each other conflict between u.s. And Iran is probably dying down. Now however, one thing you need to understand about Iran is that when they do responses like this they will tend to do a big response. Like we saw last night something showy right? But then they will do things that are a lot lower level kind of over the course of time so we could see things like a Cyber attack other kind of lower level fighting or attacks from those proxies that were used to seeing those kinds of things rocket attacks from proxy groups in Iraq and other places potentially targeting of US troops. As allies and other places like Syria Yemen and other places like that.

1 (7m 11s):
So while I think there could be a second wave of attacks, they definitely threatened that so far they seem to be signaling very clearly that none of that will happen unless the u.s. you know escalates in return but we could continue to see the kind of low-level tit-for-tat kind of violence and kind of Shadow war between the u.s. And Iran likely continue for a long time to

2 (7m 34s):
come. So if Trump strategy here was to take out a major position figure to the United States and face no real consequences. Did he just win?

1 (7m 42s):
I think it's too soon to tell honestly, if this is where it ends then you could probably say that yeah that you know, we took out this very dangerous figure who is responsible for the deaths of a lot of Americans and Iraqis, by the way with few consequences with no American casualties with no Rocky casualties, but this isn't over yet and at the bare minimum this certainly escalated things to a very dangerous.

2 (8m 7s):
Level so there was no death toll in these missile attacks that around launch last night, but overnight something like a hundred and seventy people did die in Iran in this plane crash in Tehran. Did that have anything to do with

1 (8m 20s):
this? So This Boeing flight that was headed from Tehran to Kiev Ukraine crash pretty shortly after takeoff inside Iran so far. It doesn't look like it had anything to do with the u.s. Iran fight. It's still too early to to tell they are still investigating the Ukrainian government initially came out and said there was you know, no sign of terrorism or any other like missiles or anything like that, but they then took that statement down and are now saying, you know, we're it's under investigation. It looks like there was probably some kind of maybe a fire engine failure that happened shortly after takeoff. So in other words like a mechanical failure, but it's too soon to tell and obviously just given the timing there's a lot of speculation that this has something to do with it.

1 (9m 5s):
It's certainly possible but as of right now, It doesn't seem like that's probably the

2 (9m 8s):
case apart from this plane crash. All these incidents have taken place in Iraq the killing of soleimani these missile attacks last night. How does a rock feel about this beef between Iran and the United States playing out on its soil not great.

1 (9m 24s):
Iraq is coming up on two decades of War being fought on its soil from the Iraq War to the fight against Isis and they're really caught in a tough Place between two allies the Americans and the

2 (9m 36s):
Iranians. Morning minute. Hey everyone, so I know you know all about Vox podcast because I talk about him all the time you listen to one right now. I know you know about boxes Netflix show explain but Vox is also just getting into the regular like narrative TV game right now. You can find a show called Little America on Apple TV plus only in America Dia odd tax after you see the ticket Place only in America can such a part of the game exist Face Forward hamburgers.

2 (10m 27s):
These Burgers bacon chili cheeseburger everything on top of everything only in America. Little America comes from the people who brought you the big sick and master of none. It tells 8 extraordinary true stories of immigrants coming to America people from Syria. Uganda Mexico Nigeria. These stories are funny romantic their heartfelt and inspiring and who couldn't use a little bit of that right now Little America is live. Now, you can find it on the Apple TV app or go straight to T V Dot apple.com The show is called Little America 8 episodes check him out now.

2 (11m 17s):
Hey, it is Ezra Klein. And I want to tell you about an exciting Episode VII has declined show. You can listen to now and episode literally years in the making it is a special excerpt of my new book. Why were polarized which is coming out on Tuesday, January 28th, the book explores the structural and psychological Dimensions behind the way American politics has changed and polarized what it has done to our institutions, but importantly what it is doing to us. So I hope you enjoy it and you can listen to it by subscribing to the Ezra Klein show right now for free in your favorite podcast app it to hear a special excerpt from the book. Jen I think I've been wondering for the past week or so did either country ask permission to carry out these attacks on a rocky soil.

1 (12m 2s):
It sure doesn't look like it if you look at the rocky response to the u.s. Killing of qasem soleimani in Iraq, their response was to basically ask US troops to get out right? So that's not really a response. You would expect if they knew that was going to happen and you know gave it give it the green light and Iran same thing the Souls that are on fired hit any Rocky Air Base, it houses US forces but it isn't a rocky Air Base where Iraqi forces were stationed at the time

2 (12m 30s):
you can't really ask permission to like right that's what someone's how

1 (12m 32s):
mind if we fire missiles at your base and your soldiers. Yeah, you know if they did green light that that's going to be a huge controversy because the rocky lives were literally threatened by that attack. They God no one was killed but they very well could have been so what position is a

2 (12m 47s):
rock in right now to of its I don't know friend. Ends just came over made a huge mess of their place and then kind of walked

1 (12m 55s):
away. Yeah, they are definitely in a terrible position right now, and they know it. This is a bit of an extension of what we saw during the Iraq War when the u.s. And Iran were battling out for control of of Iraq and who gets to be the big influence in the new Iraq. They were building. This is a bit of an extension of that but things are really different now Iran has way more control and influence inside the Iraqi government then really ever before and the US has pretty much the least amount of Of control and influence in Iraq than it has for a very long time.

1 (13m 35s):
So Iraq has to be careful because the government is very closely aligned with Iran in a lot of ways, but the people of Iraq not so much. So you may remember that just recently there were these really big protest going on in Iraq, totally and those protests were about in a large part getting Iranian influence out of a rock and that's something that a lot of Iraqi people sunni-shia. Across-the-board non-sectarian are really tired of having foreign countries Iran or the u.s. Trying to run their country. They're like look can we just had our country back and could all of you get out and stop fighting on our soil and so that was going on and then we have these attacks.

1 (14m 22s):
But this complicates that in some ways because you know now there's this bigger conflict going on and it's like do protesters still feel safe coming out and protesting against this does it change their calculation about you know, which side they're on is it like, oh we want the Americans back because you don't want to run, you know, is it more of like a patriotism thing where like don't attack us we want everyone out or do they, you know, pick one side or the other and there's also the fact that just because of this violence going on there could very well. You ate move by the Iraqi government to kind of clamp down on everything and just keep everything under control domestically, which could make it harder for people to come out and protest so that protest movement that was a very nationalistic iraki kind of protest a lot of young people but really across the spectrum is essentially been co-opted by this broader conflict, which once again means the Iraqi people and their aspirations are being subsumed for this broader kind of regional conflict that's going

2 (15m 22s):
on. Have there been any protests since the u.s. Killed soleimani on rocky soil?

1 (15m 28s):
Yeah, there were protests in both Iraq and Iran against the killing of qasem

2 (15m 33s):
soleimani.

1 (15m 42s):
But there weren't the protests that we were usually seeing write this like anti-iran anti-u s-- anti foreign intervention thing. This is a very specific against the killing of sulemani,

2 (15m 52s):
but the soleimani assassination and the Iranian retaliation didn't happen in Iran or in Idaho. It all happened in Iraq. What are a rock he's saying about that. I mean a

1 (16m 5s):
lot of people are talking on social media You and saying you know, once again the Iraqi people are caught up in this conflict that has nothing to do with us really and this in particular doesn't really have anything to do with the Iraqi people themselves. And a lot of people are also just really angry that it doesn't seem like people really care. What is happening to a Rockies or the fact that this is happening in Iraq. If you see a lot of the statements that came out from us politicians people were saying, you know prayers go out to the US troops and soldiers in Iraq who are under attack, but there was like Nothing about the Iraqis who are also literally under attack. And yeah, they should say that they're American politicians but like there are Iraqis who are literally they're right next to Americans.

1 (16m 47s):
It would be cool if

2 (16m 47s):
people remembered that. Hmm. What is the US said about this non-binding resolution that Iraq passed over the weekend that says you got to get the troops out. How is that developed over the

1 (16m 56s):
week? Can I say click?

2 (17m 0s):
Yes

1 (17m 3s):
the word I would use this clusterfuck. What happened is there was this letter from basically the commander of US forces in Iraq that was sent to the Iraqi government basically saying we recognize your sovereignty and in response to your request that US troops leave we're going to start, you know, moving troops to get ready to move out and move on

2 (17m 28s):
tonight. The Pentagon is scrambling to clarify us troop deployments. After what it says was a leaked draft of a memo sent to the Iraqis

1 (17m 36s):
that And then the Secretary of Defense Mark asked for a completely contradicted that just like a few minutes later. When asked at the Pentagon by reporters and

2 (17m 45s):
he's like no but then defense secretary Mark esper told reporters. There's been no decision whatsoever to leave Iraq you there's no

1 (17m 54s):
change to our Force posture just as a wonky way of saying we're not moving our troops at all. And if there was all this confusion were like, well, what about this letter and then they were like, no, there's no letter that's not happening and then a few minutes later. Mark milley chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff comes walking back to The Press Room and says about that letter that was a mistake. It was a draft.

2 (18m 15s):
Well, I don't know I think about that letter that letter was sent and I understand it was an unsigned letter so I could maybe let Mike speak to it. I don't know if that letter was a hoax or was

1 (18m 24s):
it but the Iraqis got the letter and they certainly think it's real and according to them. They're like, you just told us you're leaving. So there's this huge mess. We still don't really know what's going on. The administration is still saying no, we're not leaving. But they clearly drafted this letter that said we are leaving so there's something in the works obviously, so it's really confusing but bottom line as of right now, it seems like US troops are not leaving

2 (18m 47s):
yet. And it's just been a terrible week for a rocky sovereignty. Absolutely. What's it going to take for a rocks government or the country or the people? To give these other countries and impression that Iraq is in a country that you can just trample over.

1 (19m 5s):
Um, it's a really good question. There has been a very serious UPS while in protest but it's going to take something on a much broader scale than what we've seen so far, even though we've seen massive protests. We're talking Revolution style to kick out these people and Iran has a lot of power and it has years of influence inside a rock and not just in the government, but in religious institutions and in these militia groups their fingers are all For Iraq and it's really hard to disentangle that just overnight.

2 (19m 36s):
Jen Williams is one of the hosts of worldly. That's a podcast from Vox. I'm Shawn ramas from this is today explain from box and you've heard reset from Fox right on today's show. They're talking about Iran as a cyber security threat to the United States going forward and how the United States sort of inspired Iran to invest in cyber warfare capabilities in the first place that's on reset from box. And check it out Vox we make podcasts, okay.