1 (1s):
Kids are back in school, but that doesn't necessarily mean that they can't learn about science technology engineering art math when they come home from school. Just slip them one of those kiwi Coke crates and see what they come up with Kiko is offering today explain listeners to chance to try them out for free to redeem the offer and to learn more about their projects for kids of all ages go to Kiwi co.com / explained. There's a never ending in your face kind of fight in the United States over abortion termination before birth, but there's an under-the-radar battle being fought over termination near death to something called death With Dignity the federal government leaves it up to States Oregon was the first to allow it over 20 years ago, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Vermont, Washington, Montana, New Jersey and DC followed suit and this week the state of Maine.

1 (1m 0s):
Join them, you know,

3 (1m 1s):
it's difficult to speak about death on days such as this where spring is lifting up dormant life and Summers inviting us to such happier times

1 (1m 10s):
Governor. Janet Mills signed the main death With Dignity act into law earlier this

3 (1m 15s):
summer. It is my hope that this law while respecting the right of personal Liberty will be used sparingly that we will respect the life of every citizen with the utmost concern for their spiritual and physical well-being and that as a society we will be as vigorous and providing full Comfort hospice and palliative care to all persons. No matter their status location or financial ability as we are and respecting their right to make this ultimate decision over their own fate of their own free will

1 (1m 52s):
just like pro-choice and pro-life the terms most people use in the abortion debate. The phrase death With Dignity is divisive. So we have 8 in dying assisted suicide euthanasia. If you want to throw back allowing people to end their lives hasten their deaths prematurely is very controversial for religious people for advocates for disabled people. They have a very difficult time with not letting people just achieve what they call a natural death. Jonelle. Alicia covers end-of-life care for Kaiser health news. One thing it has is it people who choose this option are very wedded to the concept of individuality and determining their own fate.

1 (2m 37s):
So that might be a big factor in these places all across the country. How do the laws work what exactly do they allow so you have to be deemed mentally competent and you have to have a terminal illness with a confirmed prognosis of having six months or less to live and it's with a certain certain types of illness dementia doesn't qualify for instance. So a doctor has to diagnose you and has to say that he or she would not be surprised. If you died within six months and then patients have to drive it. They have to request the drugs. They have to say a few different times orally and in writing that this is what they want that it's voluntary that they're not being coerced by anyone and that it's their intent to end their lives because of their underlying terminal illness and he say request the drugs how those drugs taken.

1 (3m 34s):
Is it orally is it intravenously. No one key factor is that the patient has to be able to self administer the drugs they have to be able in to ingest the drugs themselves and that's a tricky thing like for people with ALS who could lose the capacity to swallow. Sometimes they have a narrow window when their condition will even allow them to use Medical Aid in dying even though they qualify for But a key factor is that no one can give the drug to the patient. There's no injection allowed. They have to be able to take these drugs and swallow them in just them themselves and why do patients want to have this option to to go get a drug from like let's say like a state sanctioned provider that will end their lives when obviously you could just take too much of any kind of drug and and your life.

1 (4m 29s):
Yeah, you know, it's actually a lot harder to kill yourself than one would think and so the options for people who want to end their lives can be not particularly certain you can say. Oh, I'll just take a bunch of whatever kind of drug and it might only make you sick and not kill you. So that's one factor putting together a lethal dose of a drug is actually pretty tricky even for the doctors who have been working on these laws for such a long time, but you know, we have more than 20 years of data in, Oregon. Overwhelmingly what people say why they want this option is because about ninety percent of them say it's because they fear losing their autonomy and almost an equal amount say it's because they can't engage in the activities that make life enjoyable or make life worth living.

1 (5m 18s):
So those are the two top reasons that people give when they ask them. Why do you want to end your life in this way three-quarters of them say they fear the loss of dignity that comes with the decline with a terminal illness and a little bit less than half. So in 20 years in Oregon say they don't want to burden their families with their illness. I guess we'll have to wait and see how this goes in Maine. But what about in all the other states that have some form of legalized assisted suicide Aid in dying, whatever you want to call it have there been some serious legal challenges or is it all kind of settled? So it's by no means settled its controversial almost every time.

1 (6m 0s):
It goes before the public Colorado legalized medical Aid in dying in 2016. So it's only been there for a couple years, you know, not a huge number of people have taken advantage of the law yet or use the Lila yet. I should say and the situation in Colorado. Is there as a man Neal Mahoney who just found out in July that he has terminal cancer patient. He said you have and since esophageal cancer. He says not optimal and he is a former Catholic who no longer shares that religion and who wants the right to end his life want to make sure I have some kind of control over

3 (6m 43s):
this at least make it as easy on my family as

1 (6m 45s):
possible. He watched his mother died a terrible agonizing death, and so it's legal he voted for it in Colorado. And so he wanted to use it his doctor. Dr. Barbara Morris works first century Health Corporation in Colorado. And it has a policy that says that it's providers aren't allowed to participate in eight and dying the issue is that dr. Morris and her client Neil Mahoney. They said that the hospital's policy went beyond what the state allows. So the state law allows an opt-out where entities like hospitals and like a third of the hospitals in Colorado are religiously oriented religiously run and they have said we're not going to do this and they're allowed to do that under the law.

1 (7m 32s):
They're allowed to say we don't want to do this but the law stipulates that they can tell there are doctors that they can't write prescriptions for eight and nine to be used on the premises. It doesn't say anything about writing prescriptions for patients at home. And so dr. Morris and Neil went to court to clarify that to say. Hey is this policy broader than the state law and is the state law apply here and what happened is A few days after they filed that lawsuit Center of fired. Dr. Morris as it makes its way through the court system might have implications in other states. Yeah. There's the idea the legal Scholars.

1 (8m 12s):
I talked to said that this is increasingly an argument that conservative religious entities are making that the First Amendment protections Allowed by the Constitution actually overrule any particular state law that might be enacted and they expect that to be an argument going forward. I mean, whether whether it goes to higher courts, you know remains to be seen and here in the United States where you've got a few states that allow it and most of the states that don't what happens to all the other people who may want this option, but don't get it. Well in the recent years we've heard stories about people moving to states where Aid in dying is legal.

1 (8m 57s):
I'm sure folks will remember the story about Brittany. Maynard who moved from California to Oregon because she had brain cancer in order to access. The state's law

3 (9m 7s):
on New Year's Day 2014 to migrate shock. I learned I had brain cancer despite the efforts of advanced medicine my cancer is aggressive and currently without any cure.

1 (9m 20s):
It's really difficult to do you have to establish residency while you're this sick, you know, that's not a thing that a large number of patients can do people who are dying. In other states simply don't have the have the option and I guess I have to say that even in the states where this is legal. It is highly controversial and patients like Neil Mahoney and Colorado now, he has lost his primary care doctor and he still would like to be able to use law but it's very difficult for patients to find doctors who are willing to participate in Aid in dying many doctors just don't want to do it. They feel like that's not the purpose of medicine.

1 (10m 3s):
They feel like it's outside the scope of medicine. Now some doctors. They feel compassionate about the patients who are dying and feel like this is a help to them but medical societies are divided about whether this should be allowed or shouldn't be allowed. So even in states where it's legal patients can have a very difficult time accessing the law.

1 (10m 45s):
After the break you'll hear from someone who's planning on taking advantage of Maine's death With Dignity act. I'm Shawn Rama's firm. This is today explained. When I was a kid, my parents would have me and my brother when we got home do extra schoolwork like to brush up on like grammar mechanics and the old mathematics we would have these workbooks that they bought for us unlike the textbook black market and we would just have to do more drills before we could watch a half an hour of TV or go outside and play.

1 (11m 48s):
I don't know anyone with me. Maybe it's an Asian thing. It wasn't the best. I kind of wish my parents had kiwi Coke rates because then I could have been building stuff further understanding the world and maybe making one of those like arcade Clause that you drop and pick up prizes or my next Halloween costume or who knows learning about whales there's all sorts of different Kimiko crates out there Kimiko would like to give you the chance to try them out for free. They've got projects for kids of all ages. Check him out a kiwi co.com / explained. They just want to inspire your kids y'all.

3 (12m 35s):
Okay, my name is Cindy Rogers and I go by Cindy. I'm 69. I'm from greymane. I've lived in Maine my whole life. I care about death With Dignity because this is what I want for myself in 2015. I was diagnosed with follicular lymphoma and underwent in 2016 chemotherapy for six months for that. And then in 2018 of November.

3 (13m 18s):
I was diagnosed with invasive carcinoma of the right breast and I had those two sections removed and underwent radiation. When I first learned that I had cancer the lymphoma. I was planning my funeral and I think that's common with anybody when they first learned that they have cancer see I live by myself. And so when I was first diagnosed I was like it was it was three o'clock in the morning and there was nobody to talk to you know, my family is in bed and I didn't want to interrupt them.

3 (14m 3s):
And so I started a Facebook page. I'm holding your hand sin. So when I started feeling scared and feeling overwhelmed, I would write that on my Facebook page. Yes. Yes. I'm scared. You know that and I would get so many positive feedbacks and post then it would look at that and I would say gosh if they could be that positive. I guess you can sin and it helped.

3 (14m 46s):
Especially help during the times like when I couldn't sleep or when I really felt down but it makes you start to think about your end of life where before you don't it's like that anything you when you hear the word cancer, you you you don't take one day for granted you live each day to its fullest. I have a bucket list my high school friends and myself. We got a tattoo. My tattoo is a heart with part of the hot has dog prints and then there's flowers on the other part and then it has a trailing Vine of flowers and leaves it hurt though.

3 (15m 40s):
Did it hurt? It definitely hurt when I had it done. But I'm so pleased with it.

1 (15m 49s):
We

3 (15m 50s):
have spent a couple of three days on the ocean. We even tried marijuana. We never had tried that before so we tried that. You know, you you you de get so caught up in work and oh, you've got to clean your house. You've got to do your grocery shopping you have to do everything and you just busy busy busy. And when you have a cancer diagnosis, you you look at this on every single day and say wow, you know that feels warm. Oh that makes me smile. There's this what the big differences And that and that's everything in life dear.

3 (16m 35s):
Not just the Sun. There's no cure for blood cancers and it waxes and wanes. And and right now my lymphoma. Is that bay as far as the breast cancer? I will find that out in December when I have a 3D mammogram and and how find out whether the radiation was successful on that 26 years of my life working life.

3 (17m 25s):
I was a veterinary technician and that was the hottest for me to be in the room and hold an animal that was being Ethan eyes. I would talk to the owners. Tell them what to expect ask you. No answer questions and devote most of my attention to the owners and then I devoted all my attention to the animal and they go down so peacefully Every one of them go down so peacefully even though it's not the same definitely not the same between people and animals awesome.

3 (18m 12s):
So many people say that it's not the same I've witnessed even Asia of for for animals and I think that's a lot easier way to go and a Kinder way to go than to let each bodily function fail. No matter how long that takes I've had conversations with my family about this my family feels very strong Lee as well as myself. They've gone through watched people go into hospice and and Fade Away over time and it was a bad memory very bad memory for us.

3 (19m 5s):
I don't want my family are close members to sit and watch me deteriorate no matter how long it takes and and have them have the their memory of me to be a bad one. I want I want to be able to take the solution and just go off to sleep. And at my at my choice when I went my mm terminally ill and I'm not terminally ill yet. But I want that when that happens. I don't want to have to move to Vermont which is the closest state to us that had death With Dignity.

3 (19m 51s):
I wanted to die here in the in the state of Maine. They say it's suicide. I've heard that. And maybe it is but it's no different than doctors giving unlimited amount of morphine until somebody passes and and in Maine we've tried to pass this many many times and it got defeated. And this time it passed by one vote.

3 (20m 31s):
Well, I know with me I'm going to live every minute to the my fullest until I can't and and I'll know when that time comes. I'll feel it. I mean this the science will tell me that the doctors will tell me and I will know when when when I'm ready.

1 (21m 24s):
Thanks to Kiwi Co for supporting the show today. They're on a mission to empower kids not to just make their projects. But to also make a difference a lot of their projects. You will find our about how kids can make a difference in the world. Kiwi Co is offering today explain listeners the chance to learn about their projects right now for free to redeem the offer go to Kiwi co.com explained.