1 (1s):
The secretary of state in any given us state is often the person who oversees elections once upon a time, this was a low-key job, but enter Christina, Carmo a Republican, who's running to be secretary of state in Michigan while campaigning she's offered her thoughts on the non-political Cardi B

2 (20s):
Cardi B is another tool fer because she pedals filth in the culture

1 (25s):
And on the political abortion,

2 (27s):
I'm gonna discuss how abortion is child sacrifice and how it's really a satanic practice.

1 (32s):
Kamo has formed an Alliance with three other Republican candidates for secretary of state. What they have in common is a delusion. They think Donald Trump won the 2020 election and they want to make it right.

3 (44s):
They are people running with the explicit stated purpose of either trying to overturn the last election that happened now almost two years ago and running to make it easier for their guy, Donald Trump to win in 2024

1 (56s):
Ahead on today explained

4 (59s):
Hi, I'm Kara Swisher for decades. I've covered Silicon valley, Washington and Hollywood making sense of those worlds by talking directly to the people who shaped them. Elon Musk, Barack Obama, Tony Fauci, Kim Kardashian. I've had the pleasure of grilling them all. Now I'm launching a new show called the Joe Rogan experience with Kara Swisher. Just kidding. It's actually called on with Kara Swisher. And let me tell you, it is on no holds barred on the tough questions or on my opinions on with Kara Swisher launches September 26th from New York magazine and the Vox media podcast network. Just look for on with Kara Swisher in your podcast app and hit follow or subscribe

1 (1m 50s):
It's today explained Noel king and

3 (1m 53s):
You are, my name is Zach Monero, and I am a state politics reporter at Politico.

1 (1m 58s):
So the midterms are coming up in November. Who are you paying attention to this year?

3 (2m 2s):
The folks running for office to run elections. We have 50 states in DC, so we have 51 different ways of running elections, but in a lot of states, a secretary of state is that state's chief election officer. And what that means is that they are at the end of the day in charge of elections in their state. Not every state has a secretary of state. Some of them do it with state boards of elections. Some of them have a Lieutenant governor handle it, but by and large, your secretary of state is the one who runs the top line policy for elections in your state.

1 (2m 33s):
In these upcoming midterms, 25 states are going to decide who's in charge of state elections. You've been looking into candidates for these offices who deny the results of the 2020 elections and who may win. Tell me about who you've been following

3 (2m 51s):
For every state, like a Vermont, where the candidate, there has no shot of winning there's. These battleground states that kind of track with what you think of as a traditional battleground state, where the secretary of state candidate, who is an election denier could very well be the next chief election official come 2023. The four I'm really watching the most closely is Pennsylvania, where Doug Mao is a state Senator running for governor, but he can appoint the secretary of state. We're

5 (3m 17s):
Gonna fight like hell for voting integrity. And we're gonna start with voter ID

3 (3m 22s):
Nevada, Jim Marant, a former state lawmaker.

6 (3m 24s):
And the reason our country's in the shape it's in right now is because we didn't pay attention to the secretary of state races. From a long time ago, we let George source and Harry Reed get on top of it back in 2004

3 (3m 38s):
In Michigan, Christina Carmo,

7 (3m 40s):
These people are looking to Gaslight us and part of the Gaslight is to corrupt the election system. So we no longer have control over our Republic.

3 (3m 49s):
And then Arizona, where state rep a waning for secretary of state, hello,

5 (3m 54s):
Fellow Patriots. Are we gonna take Arizona back or what?

3 (3m 60s):
Those are the four kind of top of the ticket election deniers running for chief election official in their states.

1 (4m 12s):
Tell me about each of them. Tell me about mark fi first

3 (4m 15s):
Mark Firo is maybe the most prominent of the four of them. He really rose to fame in the state and elsewhere shortly after the 2020 election, where he hosted allies of the then president Donald Trump. Now former president Trump, right after the election for that hearing. And I'm using air quotes on a podcast before a hearing where he kind of spread conspiracy theories about the election

8 (4m 37s):
Secretary of state candidate and oral valley state representative Markham hosted a day long hearing, which included many of the same players we saw in Maricopa county's election. Recount,

3 (4m 47s):
Try to create misinformation about the election has basically never stopped since then.

9 (4m 52s):
Individuals clearly do not want us to look at what's going on in PMA county. It's the sit down and shut up attitude that we have been getting in this county. Since I moved here in 1999,

3 (5m 6s):
Arizona had this thing called an audit is what the folks there call it. State

10 (5m 11s):
Representative. Mark Benham is calling for statewide door to door voter verification in Arizona,

3 (5m 17s):
But it was really like a ham fisted review of the election by election deniers.

5 (5m 21s):
Now there are people that are in this race, who they didn't like the audit. They say it undermines democracy.

3 (5m 29s):
And while mark Finchem wasn't running it, he was one of the chief proponents of it. And now he's running in that state to be secretary of state. Okay.

1 (5m 37s):
Tell me about Christina Carmo in Michigan.

3 (5m 40s):
Karama was running in Michigan after she was a pole watcher in the 2020 election. The folks who watched the proceedings basically, and she claimed to have seen some malfeasance there, never backed it up, kind of shot off from there. The

7 (5m 52s):
Poll worker then said, I think I'm gonna give it to the Democrats. That's absolutely absurd. That is illegal. The vote should have been tossed out at

3 (5m 60s):
That moment. She's the Republican party's nominee and she won the nomination at a convention, not through a primary there, they pick those down ballot, statewide offices through a convention. So she didn't have a whole regular population voting under to give her the nomination, but she won there and she has caught a lot of attention for sometimes outside. The norms view will say, but very prominently kind of talks about other issues, kind of outta the purview of an election administrator,

2 (6m 22s):
But having intimate relationships with people who are demo possessed or oppressed, I strongly believe that a person opens themselves up to possession. Demonic possession is real.

3 (6m 32s):
She talks a lot about of abortion, which most election officials have nothing to do with

7 (6m 36s):
We, we have a society where we just slaughter children.

3 (6m 39s):
She's, you know, kind of spread some conspiracy theories and conspiracy theories adjacent both with and without elections. And there she's running against the democratic incumbent probably might be one of the closest states. Jocelyn Benson. There is the democratic secretary of state. It's one of those things that there's just so many races going on at one time that it's tough to get a handle on these down ball races that, that someone like secretary Benson, who's got a statewide profile, has been running for elections for a while. And she quite literally wrote the book on secretaries of state kind of going up, someone who has like no experience whatsoever in elections has done basically everything within her power to Kurt elections. So it's kind of that perfect dichotomy in, in Michigan. Tell me

1 (7m 15s):
About Jim Marshant in Nevada.

3 (7m 17s):
Jim Marchant is the self-appointed leader of all these candidates. He, he brought them together in a coalition called the America first secretary of state coalition with

6 (7m 26s):
Our coalition. We're gonna counter and reverse what they did and we're gonna get back, get our country back to what our founders gave us and have the votes of the people actually count.

3 (7m 38s):
They can kind of swap ideas, theoretically fundraise for each other, even though none of them are really strong fundraisers and Maron has been trying to like rally them altogether and give them a common platform and give them a common ideal to run on. Ironically, out of the four of those folks that we've talked about, he's the only one not endorsed by former president, Donald Trump, the other three have scored Trump's endorsement, but Marant is trying to turn these individual state races and states spread out across the country into more of a collective into more of a movement and kind of been spearheading a lot of those efforts.

1 (8m 13s):
How fullthroated is his support? Has he come right out and said, these are folks who wanna overturn the 20, 20 election. And that's why they've got me behind

3 (8m 21s):
Him earlier this month, Trump was in Pennsylvania rallying for Doug Mao, his first general election rally. However we wanted to find general election was in Pennsylvania to try to get Doug Mao elected.

11 (8m 31s):
Doug is a former army Colonel who honorably served our country and uniform for 30 years before going on to fight for you in the state Senate became

3 (8m 43s):
The, and of course, Doug master is also running for governors. It's not just election based, but Trump has been clear. I will say very clear about how he feels about the 2020 election and all of these candidates rowing the same direction as him please,

11 (8m 55s):
To introduce your next Michigan secretary of state. This is a wonderful woman with a beautiful mom and dad who I just met backstage.

3 (9m 4s):
And the important thing is even if they can't overturn the 2020 election, which they can't do it's what can they do for future elections that could potentially put a thumb on the scale for Trump or Trump-like candidate. That's also in there as well.

1 (9m 17s):
Why has Donald Trump not endorsed Marant in Nevada?

3 (9m 21s):
So the short answer is we don't know Trump endorsed Marant in 2020 for his house run, which he lost. So he's obviously familiar with him, but Marant hasn't picked up the former president's endorsement this year, which is interesting given that he got out early for a handful of the other candidates in primaries, I guess maybe Marshan had the most competitive primary. He didn't have the obvious path to the nomination. So that could be part of it. These folks will never, ever, ever talk to the mainstream press more or less, but where they do go is they go talk to Steve Bannon and Steve Bannon has held up Marshan in particular with these four candidates, as the leader of this group, you

12 (9m 57s):
Have stirred up a horn nest brother, a down ballot raised like secretary of state. You got the national international guardian CNN BBC, all they're saying is this is more shot. Guy is a bad guy, he's a vegan.

3 (10m 10s):
So it kind of gives him that platform in that far right media with Steve bated, with, you know, similar broadcasters like Bannon and, and, and other like OAN and things like that. So he's being held up at least out there as partially the leader of this group. And sure, you know, there's not a lot of big money flowing through these races. Secretary of state contests. Don't typically attract a lot of spending even in a normal year. And this is certainly an abnormal year. So it's not like Marshon is serving as like major hub for donors or anything like that. But setting some sort of level of platform, that's kind of what he has done and what he's professed. Basically

1 (10m 45s):
These four folks have all survived. The G O P primary, can they win a general

3 (10m 51s):
Election? There's not a lot of attention on these races. So it, it really gives any one of them a viable opportunity to win. Of course, this year, we've seen a lot more attention on these races and none of these folks who could fundraisers money, isn't everything in politics, but it, it, it helps your campaign, but just think about the states where they're running, right, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Arizona, Nevada, have some of the closest elections over the last decade that probably won't change this year. And, and some in particular are dog Massiano who does have that statewide platform because he is running for governor, even though he's not raising a lot of money, even though there is not that even institutional Republican support for him, he had been polling closely behind the democratic gubernatorial nominee, Josh Shapiro there, you know, could mark M Christina Kamozi Marshon win.

3 (11m 38s):
Absolutely. These are down ballot races that don't attract a lot of attention. So it gives candidates a lot easier path to winning an nomination that they wouldn't otherwise win in a Senate race, whether it would be hundreds of millions of dollars, potentially pouring in to kind of tip the race.

1 (11m 51s):
Could a secretary of state really do a lot of damage to a state's electoral system,

3 (11m 58s):
A secretary of state can't just snap their fingers. And all of a sudden they declare whoever is the next Senator. Whoever is the wins, the presidential election from that state. They can't do that. They don't have that authority, but they both have kind of sweeping authority to certify elections in many states saying, yes, this is who the winner is. And they also have in many states and it's very different state by state. But in many states they have the ability to set top line policy. So no, a secretary of state can't just snap their fingers, declare the person who lost by a hundred thousand votes suddenly the next Senator, the next governor, the next whatever. But they do have so many entry points into the election system that that can really tip the scales.

3 (12m 40s):
Sure. They don't. They may not be able to declare unilaterally who the winner is, but there's so many other things that,

1 (13m 0s):
Hey, folks, I wanna tell you about another show that I have heard is amazing. It's called this is love. It's a podcast that takes a very broad view of love sharing stories, not just about romance, but also about people doing strange things. That mean a lot to them. Like someone who digs up old backyard outhouses to find hidden treasure and a group of people desperately trying to keep one type of tree alive. Some of the stories are really funny. There's an episode about a guy who puts on a huge pair of fake feet and makes tracks up and down the beach. He spends decades fooling his neighbors and some of the stories are heartwarming. They have won about a man who found a baby on a subway platform.

1 (13m 40s):
Listen for stories about love and all of the surprising forms it can take. You can subscribe to, this is love wherever you get podcasts.

11 (13m 53s):
So now Christina is running for secretary of state to clean up Michigan's election. For good

1 (14m 3s):
Today, explained we're back with Zach Montero of Politico. Who's been covering a group of four would be Republican secretaries of state who have banded together under the delusion that the 2020 election was stolen. Zach, if these America first coalition candidates win in November and they did pick a nice Anine name for their group, what is their platform? It is, we would hope too late to overturn the 20, 20 election as these folks might have wanted to happen. They gotta do something going forward. What are they pledging to do?

3 (14m 37s):
Yeah. So not all of them have ruled out somehow overturning the 2020 election, which oh dear, dear Lord. Yeah, I guess to be incredibly clear, it's, it's both not based in reality. And even if it was, which it is not, there is no legal path to do so, but not all of them have ruled it out. The Marshant group kind of puts forward six broad kind of policy ideas. One big one that they kind of focus on is voter ID.

13 (15m 3s):
We ran better elections in Afghanistan, war torn, third world country than I've seen in, in Pennsylvania. In some cases here and Afghanistan, the international commission mandated voter ID in Pennsylvania. You just show up and sign a piece of paper or mail in something with, with a signature. We don't even know if it matches anything.

3 (15m 19s):
Voter ID is something that's not just limited toward this kind of group of luxury Denis it's popular among the a American rights it's actually popular among most Americans. Most Americans think in poll to pull poll believe there should be some level of ID and ID laws are very, very different across the country so that no one state kind of has a copycat policy, but they they're running to have some level of ID, likely photo ID in their state. Another thing they're running on, which actually most election officials broadly think is a good idea. Paper ballots. Most people vote on paper ballots, meaning that when you go fill out your ballot, you actually have the physical paper that is counted. What makes them different is that most states then count those ballots with the machine much, much quicker to count an election with a, with a ballot tabulator than doing it by hand.

3 (16m 5s):
A lot of these candidates are running saying, actually, we wanna go back to hand counting ballots.

6 (16m 9s):
We're gonna do our best to get rid of the voting machines in NY county. And then we're going to go to other counties here in Nevada.

3 (16m 17s):
Sounds nice. In theory, it's something that every experienced election official would absolutely tear their hair out about some of these states. If you think about, I don't know, Maricopa county in Arizona, for example, could have dozens and dozens of races that would take far too much time to hand, count it and hand counting is likely less accurate than a ballot tabulator, which has been proven over and over and over and over again, to be accurate. So they're running to do that. And maybe the third and one of the biggest things is looking to eliminate or severely curtail the use of mail-in voting. We're

6 (16m 47s):
Gonna do our best to get rid of these ridiculous universal mail-in ballots.

3 (16m 52s):
Most states in America allow at least most of their voters to vote via the mail. What these candidates are running on is saying no, no one can request a mail ballot without a specific excuse. And that excuse is typically, you know, disability age is sometime included or you're outta the county on election day. So it would be a really severe rollback of access to mail ballots.

7 (17m 13s):
It's an army of people across our state who are fighting back little mega warriors, and we're getting the job done. Thank you.

1 (17m 28s):
If they win, given that they're in swing states, the big unknown is going to be the 20, 24 election. What could they do in those jobs to upend the electoral process in the states where they're from in 2024?

3 (17m 42s):
So one that gets the most attention. And I actually think wrongly, but one that gets the most attention is certifying elections. Being that final check, this person won, who said we won and it's really unprecedented. We don't exactly know how it go about, but they could say actually, no, I'm not certifying this election, though. What happens next is a huge question, mark. It would almost assuredly end up in state and or federal court, but even the, the premise of that, even saying, they're not gonna sign off on a free and fair election is in itself. Just a challenge to the fundamental baseline of the system. The next things they can do vary really dramatically state by state. Some states have pretty strong secretaries of state. Some states have pretty weak ones, but broadly, a lot of them can set policy. They can't change the laws automatically, but they can make things much, much harder to happen.

3 (18m 25s):
Think about drop boxes, which have come a point of contention. What sort of rules could they put around in drop boxes? What sort of rules could they put around signature matching? If you submit a mail ballot in many states, there's a process called signature matching. How do they make it harder to have those ballots be approved? And, and what many of these candidates also say they wanna do is totally erase these states, current voter roles and start fresh.

13 (18m 46s):
The most important thing is I get to appoint the secretary state and that secretary state is gonna clean up the election logs. We're gonna reset. In fact registration, you have to reregister. We're gonna start all over again.

3 (18m 56s):
I don't think there's a path legally to do that. That would certainly face many, many, many, many challenges in the court, but that just every little pressure point that they kind of stick their fingers into and make elections more difficult to run and make it more challenging for these county level officials to do their jobs. So yes, certifying elections is important and that could be a big, big thing that they, they mess up. But at every step of the way throughout an election, a secretary can kind of put their thumb on the scale. And that is what I think most concerning. At least to me, what could they do? Not when everyone's watching, you know, the day after the election, what do they do in the two years leading up to it?

1 (19m 32s):
I'm curious about how much concern this is causing in the secretary of state community. Christina Carmo has a political rival. Her name is Jocelyn Benson. She's the current secretary of state in Michigan. She's publicly been banging the drama about how she's worried now to be fair, she wants to win her election. Have you talked to any current secretaries of state about what they are most afraid of

3 (19m 57s):
Secretaries are concerned about these folks running for office?

14 (20m 1s):
And here we are talking about concerted efforts. Some of them by candidates themselves to undermine that basic process,

3 (20m 9s):
Obviously the people who are directly running against them are concerned about it. If you are the secretary in Michigan, you are concerned about your opponent. If you are in Arizona, you know, you are concerned about who your successor is, but it's a broader fear. 2020 really tested this bipartisan consensus of secretaries of state. It was a tough year for election officials at all levels. I don't know what injecting someone as militant as a mark rim into that conversation would do.

1 (20m 36s):
If you want to cast out on elections and you use your campaign to do it, it seems like you might either bring people around to your way of thinking, or at the very least continue to fire up. Those people who think the 2020 election was stolen. How have you seen this play out with potential voters

3 (20m 52s):
That weird balancing act, these candidates have to strike. It's kind of like the Georgia runoffs after the 2020 election. And one of the hypothesis is for why the Republicans lost there is they were saying, oh, the the 2020 election was stolen from you, but go vote again.

15 (21m 6s):
We'll win. If you don't, we'll lose America.

16 (21m 9s):
This Tuesday, everything is on the line.

15 (21m 12s):
We're gonna stop socialism in its tracks together. We're gonna

3 (21m 17s):
Save. So how these candidates kinda walk that line remains strange and interesting. You know, mark Firo set an interviews that, you know, what we gotta do is we we've gotta vote so much. Everyone's gotta go out and vote that they can't possibly sneak in enough fake votes. We

17 (21m 33s):
Know that they're going to try and inject

18 (21m 36s):
Fictitious votes into the system.

3 (21m 37s):
Again, obviously, no one's sneaking in fake votes, but that's kind of how they go about doing it. And that's one of the things that people who oppose them kind of like the point out, well, how are you running for election saying that elections are unfair? Wouldn't you just kind of throw your hands up and kind of wash your hands of it. Steven Richard, who is the Republican Maricopa county recorder out in Arizona says that all the time

18 (21m 60s):
I unseeded the former Democrat chief elections official of Maricopa county. Yes, I beat the Democrat on a ballot that were supposedly rigged.

3 (22m 8s):
These people wanna run for election on the same rules that they say aren't aren't fair, or in fact won their own election on the same rules that they say aren't fair. I don't know how you kind of hold those two competing thoughts in your head because I don't have them, but they do have

1 (22m 23s):
You talked to anyone who said, if people like this win elections and start fiddling with the system Americans trust in the way we vote is gonna bottom out. And that could just be

3 (22m 33s):
Catastrophic. A lot of Americans don't think about elections. They think about elections as a one a day event. Elections really are, you know, a full year. It does not it's it does not take 48 hours to prepare for a primary. It takes a year. It does not take 72 hours to prepare for a general election. It takes that whole year running up to it. So the challenge is how do you kind of restore people's trust in elections when they don't trust it? Yeah. And there's been no really good answer to that. Honestly, a lot of these honest election officials of both parties, and I wanna stress that election officials in America are a bipartisan group and BI and large are good people running good elections, doing their best is, is their outgunned. You know, your secretary of state, your county clerk, your, your local registrar does not have the same platform as some of these people do.

3 (23m 20s):
And that's true for Republicans. And that's true for Democrats. Some part of America, this point won't be reached by election. Officials will never believe we have free elections and, and they're wrong, but they'll never believe that they're free elections. It's the race for election officials of both parties to reach the rest of Americans who just don't think about elections all that much and say, no, look, we do have a fair system. Come in and see, that's been the real push since 2016, but especially since 2020 is transparency, transparency, transparency, come in and see, you know, how we test the ballot machines to make sure that they are actually counting what they say. They're gonna count. Come in and ask questions, you know, by and large, your state election official your local county clerk, whatever will be more than happy to answer your questions.

3 (24m 3s):
Maybe not right at this very second, because they're super busy preparing for the general election, but election officials want you to feel good about elections. They want to answer your questions. They want you to come in and watch the testing. They want poll Watchers to actually watch and see how American elections are run. So it's the arms races. Can you reach enough Americans who just have a weird gut feeling about it, but aren't so far gone. Can you reach them in time? And that that's the real question ahead of this year. And ahead of 2024

1 (24m 39s):
Today's show was produced by Victoria Chamberlain and edited by Matthew collect. It was fact checked by Tori Dominguez and Serena Solan. It was engineered by Paul Robert mosey. I'm Noel king it's today explained.