1 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from quip. Apparently the quip electric toothbrush company has this new waste free dental floss. Obviously, you got to throw away the floss but they've found a way around that plastic box at the floss comes in. So if anyone's tried that let me know. I haven't tried it yet, but I'd love to hear about it. So, you know, I'm pretty easy to find. Okay. Also, if you've never tried anything quick related, you can get a quip brush head toothpaste floss refills on a dentist recommended schedule. Every three months for just five dollars shipping is free and if you go to get quick.com so I explained right now you get your first refill free when you buy a quip electric toothbrush that is your first refill free at get clip dot-coms explains G ET Q UI p.com / explained Family is everything and at Volvo.

1 (46s):
We do everything to help keep your safe the Volvo XC90 SUV offers a range of advanced Safety actor from an available built-in booster seat for children to Pilot Assist Technology, which helps keep you centered on long road trips where ever you go summer safely get 0% APR financing for up to five years and exclusive lease offers on the XC90 during the Volvo summer safely savings event. A few weeks ago the black lives matter protests were basically anywhere. You looked in the United States, but in Portland, Oregon, they never really stopped and then something happened there that a lot of other cities didn't experience at all federal agents in full camo fatigues showed up and started throwing people in unmarked minivans.

1 (1m 37s):
Oregon public broadcasting has been covering the story. I spoke with Opie bees Conrad will In this morning for weeks the Portland Police Bureau has been pleasing these protests and they're replacing them really aggressively but the federal government started to get involved really around the Fourth of July. We saw a pretty big night. We're basically federal law enforcement came. Out of the courthouse and really like cleared protesters through the city. They went several blocks away from the federal courthouse.

1 (2m 20s):
Their state has Mission here right has been to protect Federal property and Personnel. We took note of the fact that here you have federal law enforcement that are blocks into the city blocks away from federal property. They claim they were going from one Federal property to another but you know our reporters on the ground were seeing other things, you know, I mean, it was like they were here they were using pretty aggressive crowd control tactics. Exactly are these federal law enforcement members, where do they come from? It's numbers of the US Marshal Service. There's a special operations team with the US Marshal Service. That's come here. And it's also been heavily Department of Homeland Security personnel. There have been members of Customs and Border Protection.

1 (3m 0s):
There's a group called bortac that does a lot of work on the border pretty controversial group there been members of a special ice unit like a special operations ice unit that have been here protecting base. Say the federal courthouse. This all happened after President Trump sign an executive order in late June. Now, they're looking at Jesus Christ. They're looking at George Washington. They're looking at Abraham Lincoln Thomas Jefferson not going to happen not going to happen. Not as long as I'm here. Yeah. I don't think a lot of people took that very seriously, but there was a there there, huh? Yeah. Well, I guess you know there was and there was a part of it that was like clamping down.

1 (3m 42s):
On criminal activity that's sort of what has put so many federal law enforcement officers in Portland. That's what's gotten so much attention here. The idea that Trump is sort of sending federal law enforcement here and that they're behaving how they're behaving using tear gas using crowd control devices. There was a really kind of seminal moment last weekend where a protester was hit in the head by a member of the US Marshal Service LaBella seems to Be improving. He's no longer critical and is instead listed in serious condition today, but his mother told me it's still unclear how his injuries will impact his vision or if there's any brain trauma and I mean these things have just angered people it's you know, and and I think that the idea that the president who continues to talk about Portland you talks about quelling protests in Portland.

1 (4m 36s):
We've done a great job in Portland Portland was totally out of control and they went in and I guess we have many Right now in jail and we very much quelled it and if it starts again will quote it again very easily people here are mad. They're just really mad. They want federal law enforcement to leave. I think another seminal moment that perhaps led to a lot more people outside of Portland and Oregon noticing that this was happening was this video that circulated all over the world last week of a protester sort of being dragged into an unmarked vehicle by what looked like military personnel who refused to identify By themselves, is that a fair characterization?

1 (5m 15s):
Yeah. What are you doing? Use your words? What are you doing? Use your words? What are you doing? Use your words? What is going on? Who are you? No, she will get you out. What's your name? Tell us your name? Okay, you're fine. We'll get you out raw wood. All right, we got you friend. We got you mean that video was extraordinary. Mary and actually we broke a story about this guy named Mark Pettibone. It wasn't him in that video but something like that happen to him. Basically, he had attended a protest and after the protest he was leaving van pulls up right in front of us and I am basically tossed into the van and I had my beanie pulled over my face so I couldn't see he didn't know where he was going, but it was the Federal Courthouse.

1 (6m 10s):
They patted me down and he took my picture and rummage through my belongings. One of them said this is a whole lot of nothing, you know, he was seem disappointed that I didn't have any weapons or anything on me. Eventually. He was given his Miranda rights read his Miranda rights. He was asked if he wanted to waive his rights and answer some questions and he said he didn't and you know, the federal law enforcement officers said, hey this interviews over they left in there. Another hour and a half before he was released and when we arrest somebody in this country, we have to have probable cause and there's a lot of questions about did that happen here mean was this an event where there was probable cause and its it really disturbs.

1 (6m 57s):
So many people I think what seems particularly haunting to people is that this doesn't look like something that requires federal law enforcement or military personnel. This looks like a local thing that local law enforcement, especially as militarized as They are these days could handle so Ken cuccinelli. He's the acting deputy secretary at the Department of Homeland Security. He told NPR last week that I fully expect that as long as people continue to be violent and Destroy property that we will attempt to identify those folks. We will pick them up in front of the courthouse if we spot them elsewhere. We will pick them up elsewhere. This doesn't look like America.

1 (7m 37s):
This looks like another country. Anyway, I talked to like federal law enforcement officials, you know, they say, Like I don't know why they have to wear camouflage, you know, I don't know why they're using unmarked Vehicles. Like there's a way you can look like a military force is trying to intimidate people and there's a way you can look like law enforcement that is trying to investigate a possible crime and very much. So folks here feel like it is this kind of occupying Force the sort of military sized force that is trying to intimidate how our people and the protesters in Portland responding to this Federal presence. In their city now that they're these videos of these strange sort of abductions that are occurring there really mad.

1 (8m 20s):
I think people that you know may have been open to the idea of having a federal law enforcement protect Federal buildings are increasingly. I think radicalized against the role. The federal government is playing here and they're increasingly angry Portland mayor Ted wheeler has had an evolution on this. You know, he initially you know, what, Supportive of federal law enforcement being protecting their building. He didn't set. You know, he said I don't have an issue with that the thing he said that radio angry though, was them kind of coming out of their building and trying to police the streets of Portland the videos the pictures the experiences that were all witnessing here in Portland should be shocking to all Americans the words and actions from President Trump and the Department of Homeland Security have own that this is an attack on our democracy.

1 (9m 16s):
I think even folks that were that's all role for the federal government to play here are now saying why are they here about Noma County Commissioner named Sharon Myron, you know she's an ER doctor is just a kind of this warm affable person. She got tear gas. It does feel like this occupying forces come in that is you know, in any other World in any other scenario you'd be watching this on TV and think this is like a dictatorship and they're coming in and taking over it changes the way people think about the role law enforcement is playing here and it makes you wonder you know, what are they really doing here?

1 (9m 59s):
You know, is it about protecting buildings it increasingly starts to look like an occupation and now it feels like these these protests in Portland aren't about George Floyd anymore. It actually seems like they're about Out the response to the protests that were about George Floyd I say this with with a lot of humility, but I mean the story we wrote about the Vans, you know, basically the federal officers picking people up completely blew up and prior to that, you know, it was sort of a smaller group of people that have been turning out to these protests, but that story comes out and the response was really huge mean.

1 (10m 39s):
There are a lot a lot more people that were out. Testing, you know even moms that were showing up and kind of dancing and you know, basically organizing downtown. Shooting a firework at a federal building or hitting a law enforcement officer with a hammer which have happened very much. So like, you know that's going to be seen as criminal activity. But when you have moms out there dancing in the street, I mean, I think it really humanizes sort of a protest movement and in a way it's like almost giving it a new identity.

1 (11m 24s):
And really kind of creating a sense of like this is what this is about Portland and federal government. What are you doing here? Explain

2 (11m 32s):
yourself

1 (11m 44s):
after the break Oregon sues the federal government. I'm Sean Rama's for him. It's today

2 (11m 49s):
explained.

1 (12m 9s):
Support for the show today comes from yext that's like text but with a why, you know when you say like yellow instead of hello. It's kind of like that, too. But with ext. Anyway why EXT.com is where you can find out more about yext. What they do is they help you create better answers on your website for like the questions people have about your business ux answers adds a powerful search engine to your website so you can deliver Official authoritative answers to every customer question no matter how tough for or simple and it's not like a clunky list of Blue Links to sort through shade yext answers uses natural language processing to understand the exact question and to deliver an exact answer find out more at ufx.com and learn more about how you X2 answers can help your website work harder for your customers and your business yext.

1 (13m 7s):
It's yellow. This is Advertiser content. Hey, this is Bo's. I'm a podcaster a streamer gamer and I'm basically all over the Internet. So one of the things that I'm super interested in is how new technology affects our lives today with the help of Samsung Galaxy 5G. I'm looking at how technology connects us. Let's get into it with dr. Jennifer gold back. She's a professor at the University of Maryland studying how our online interactions affect their daily lives doctor. What do you see as the biggest promise of 5G the I think it's going to really open a new way of thinking about how do we share these real-world offline experiences that we're having now is 5G.

1 (13m 53s):
We're going to take this next Leap Forward. We're going to be able to do stuff that we couldn't think of with slower connections psychologically. How do you think that this affects us? Yeah. It's such a good question if things kind of get in the way of us doing what we're trying to do, it can be so frustrating because it builds up over the course of the day. Day, and so if we have seamless video If we don't have those little delays it's going to make us feel better. It's going to reduce that frustration that's going to make us nicer to everybody else. It's going to make us happier. Wow, it's seriously been so interesting talking to you today, and I have a million questions, but that's all the time that we have for Samsung and my guest. Dr. Jennifer gold back.

1 (14m 33s):
Thank you so much for joining us be one of the first to start enhancing Your World online and off with Galaxy 5G now available on Galaxy S. 25g and a 71 5G feels good to be first with Samsung. Conrad you mentioned that you know initially the mayor of Portland was on board with these federal troops coming in that he felt that there was a need to protect Federal property within the city. How is that thinking evolved over time? I mean are there still people in elected positions in the city of the state who are saying we need these federal law enforcement members here protecting stuff or is this pretty much uniformly like get these people out at this point.

1 (15m 21s):
We should be careful how we talk about the mayor and that His views towards federal law enforcement when he saw was just like you have a federal building here. You should use your resources to protect that building just like, you know, we're using local police to protect our buildings. But at this point I think everybody is wanting the federal government to really deescalate the situation. They want kind of this enhanced federal law enforcement presence to go. How is the city or the state making that desire known or making it official so the Oregon Department of Justice filed a lawsuit late Friday night. The lawsuit is claiming that there have been civil rights violations pertaining to people being picked

2 (16m 2s):
up

1 (16m 4s):
in this idea that the unmarked vehicles are coming and grabbing protesters and that that department Homeland Security says this activity will continue they laid that out in a lawsuit and they're also pursuing with kind of state prosecutors. They're pursuing a criminal investigation into the Often LaBella incident the the guy who was hit in the head with the crowd control device by US Marshal. They're looking to see if there is a criminal case to be brought against federal law enforcement there. So those are two pretty huge things that the state did late Friday night. And what exactly are they are they suing over in this lawsuit.

1 (16m 45s):
So yeah, the organ apartment of justice is lawsuit against the federal government alleges that Federal government's actions have violated portlanders free. Speech their due process rights and also resulted in an unlawful seizures and they say that they're creating a public nuisance in a pretty powerful statement or going to turn in general Ellen. Rosenblum said that the tactics must stop, you know, they not only make it impossible for people to assert their first amendment rights to protest peacefully, but Jesus says that the federal government is creating a more volatile situation on the streets of Portland. Is this the only lawsuit over this sort of federal law enforcement presence in Portland?

1 (17m 29s):
So the ACLU is also filed a lawsuit the ACLU of Oregon with the idea of trying to protect journalists and legal observers from basically being, you know, tear gas during the protest a federal judge basically said that the ACLU can expand in its lawsuit the Department of Homeland Security other parts of the federal government, and so it's a separate lawsuit, but it was filed to sort of protect legal. Furs folks out there that are trying to document what's happening and that also includes journalists and there's a lot of journalists on the ground and a lot of them are freelance journalists that are kind of out there filming the incidents every night and you know providing just another way of documenting what's happening. I think what a lot of people watch these videos their first reaction is like who are these federal law enforcement officers?

1 (18m 14s):
And the second reaction is can they even do that? Is this legal do we know or is this lawsuit gonna resolve that question? Absolutely. I mean the present United States in the Department of Homeland Security. They have a lot of power. I mean it's the federal government, but the question is is what's happening here actually legal. I tend to think that the Oregon Department of Justice Ellen Rosenblum. They're doing more than just making a statement by filing the lawsuit saying the federal government wants to leave. I mean, they think that there are legal grounds here where the federal government the Trump Administration the Department of Homeland Security have have overstepped and so That's what this lawsuit is, you know gonna answer for us in a way.

1 (18m 56s):
I know this is all happening pretty quickly and we're talking what noon Monday has the federal government or even President Trump responded in any way at this point. Do you know so yesterday Trump responded on Twitter? Like he does he said we're trying to help Portland not hurt it the leadership has four months lost control of the anarchist and the agitators. He said that we must protect Federal property and our people these are you know, not merely protesting. There's these are quote the real deal. Whatever. That means. It just feels like there must have been a better way here a better way to protect buildings protect, you know a federal courthouse while also facilitating peaceful protests.

1 (19m 38s):
I think it's reasonable to think that the federal government is going to just like a any government is going to protect buildings. I mean those are funded by taxpayers. I think that the actions on the fourth of July were an escalation on the part of the federal government shooting a protester in the head with a crowd control device like that really escalated the situation picking people up and unmarked Vehicles wearing military fatigues that escalates the situation and so I think that there's probably a better way to go about it then some of the things the federal government has done up until

2 (20m 15s):
now,

1 (20m 26s):
Conrad Wilson is a reporter covering legal Affairs and Criminal Justice at Oregon public broadcasting. You can find and support his work at OPB dot-org. We lost a great American over the weekend Congressman. John Lewis died of pancreatic cancer at 80 years of age. We thought about making an episode about his extraordinary life and leadership in the Civil Rights Movement here in the United States. But ultimately decided this was the episode he would have wanted us to make

2 (20m 57s):
today.

1 (21m 3s):
I got arrested a few times and it's 60 40 times and since I've been in Congress another five times and I'm probably going to get arrested again with my philosophy is very simple when you see something that is not right my fam not just that's something