4 (1s):
This episode is brought to you by course correction a production of Doha debates and Qatar Foundation hosted by journalist Nellie for hidayat way too often. I've seen and read stories that leave out the people impacted the most people sometimes just like me in each episode Nell African friends one massive Global issue at a time and connects with the people most affected by it. I had my work my status my life my pride. I lost it. I'm nothing here challenge yourself to change the world find course correction presented by Doha debates wherever you get your podcasts.

4 (1m 0s):
All right. So talk to me about Taipei. Do I have to it's hot? It's bustling for sure. We Dylan. Why are we in Taipei again? So my colleague bird Pinkerton, and I went to Taiwan for this series of Stories on International Health Systems. I think this is the hospital and we had this appointment with a college professor, but we needed to kill some time before hand and his office just so happened to be right next to the National Taiwan University Hospital in downtown. Don't I pay got an hour and a half? We see as much as we can. So what you see when you went inside.

4 (1m 41s):
It was really crowded inside teeming with people. Like there was the opening registration Lobby, which was just big kind of open room and there were like buzzers pinging all the time, press the button taking them more people getting their numbers called like there seem to be a lot of patients at this Hospital looking to get treated. I want these want their health care, but there was one exception the one place Place that seems kind of empty very slow is the cashier's desk. They did have a cashier's desk. It's basically empty you could have seen a tumbleweed blowing through why were there no people at the cashier line Dylan. So Taiwan has a national health insurance plan one public program that covers everybody and under that public program that covers everybody when people go to the doctor or people go to the hospital they have to pay either nothing at all or very little of Own money to get the medical care that they need.

4 (2m 36s):
So you're not going to see people, you know standing at the cashier's desk haggling with some poor Hospital assistant trying to figure out what they pay because Taiwan is come up with the system where everybody is covered and the actual cost of Medical Care at the point of service is very low Dylan Scott reports on Healthcare at box and he's been working on a series called everybody covered. It's a look at At what the United States can learn from other countries Healthcare Systems, you will surely be hearing more about Medicare for all from the Democratic candidates at tonight's debate. But today on the show. We're going to take you to other countries to find out how their Universal coverage Works taiwan's fully public system and the Netherlands fully private system.

4 (3m 25s):
We're going to start with Taiwan. If you're a Taiwanese citizen, or if you live in Taiwan, you get a health insurance card from the government and it covers your benefits for almost all of the medical needs that you would have, you know going to the primary care doctor seeing specialist going to the hospital's medications and prescriptions. It's really only certain things like cosmetic surgery or more elective things that aren't covered by the national health insurance plan everything that you would really think of as medical care that you would need is covered by this single government plan. Okay, but don't Whenever you see the Democratic debates, all the candidates are going back and forth about how are you gonna pay for Medicare for all this multi-trillion dollar hole three point four trillion a year turns out costs are going to go up and my parents always told me that nothing in life is free.

4 (4m 12s):
How much are the Taiwanese people paying for this privilege of this fully funded Healthcare System. So like compared to what we have this, you know Frankenstein system we have in the u.s. What taiwan's doing is actually quite cheap and more. Efficient and so Taiwan spends about six percent of their GDP on Healthcare and the United States spends over 17% And should I assume that like everyone in Taiwan loves the system. It is really popular at least according to the surveys that some government officials showed us while we were there once people got insurance and once they started using their benefits, its popularity rapidly increased and it stayed High over time these days it hovers somewhere around eighty percent.

4 (4m 57s):
And I think that's a number that sticks out even compared to sort of other developed economies and certainly compared to the United States. But you did say that hospital was really busy. The one you went to right are they all like that or was it just the one the big hospitals the always crowded we actually talked to a researcher named Scioscia Chang who has studied this and he told us that there's so many people waiting one to see the adapter. That's the situation in Taiwan. It's a big problem for Taiwanese health Care everywhere that patients use a lot of healthcare and that tends to mean that hospitals are crowded and doctors feel overworked. My Canadian family says the same thing about their system all it takes forever to get something done.

4 (5m 40s):
There's such a weight. There's such a weight, right and this is sort of you know, if you think about Healthcare from an economic point of view, this is one of the concerns like if you give everybody insurance if you tell them you don't really have to pay any money when you go to the hospital or go to the doctor, then they're going to go to the hospital and go to the And then it becomes harder for the providers the people on the supply side to meet that demand if the patient's a to satisfied and adapters that very unsatisfied. They're unhappy. How can you expect the system to be sustainable? And so what we've heard from Scioscia Chang and from others is that like that is one of the fundamental problems that the Taiwanese system has always struggled with is how to make sure that there are enough doctors enough hospitals available to treat everybody who needs it.

4 (6m 31s):
We actually met with two doctors in a coffee shop in Taipei and they were members of this medical labor union that was formed a little less than a decade ago. I think in response to some of these concerns in the medical profession about how national health insurance was affecting their quality of work. My name is Max. I'm dr. Jana. One of them was named Max and he was dressed in this like Dapper Newsboy cap, and he told us that like, I'm due to be, you know, Lefty. He thought of himself as a political Lefty, but he was also like clearly overwhelmed as a doctor working in the national health insurance program because you got very limited resources to do the crazy job.

4 (7m 13s):
So max actually works in an emergency room and he would tell us that people would just come in all the time for every little thing some people abusing emergency abuses Healthcare type A, you know, very People want to go densely packed urban city, you know, there's a lot of herds of scooters and people's just zooming down the street and so you can imagine at a like major Trauma Center in a city like that like you're dealing with accidents and broken bones and all kinds of sort of serious medical trauma all the time and yet at the same time because patients had so little sort of incentive to like be thoughtful about how they use Healthcare.

4 (7m 54s):
Somebody would also just like walk into the emergency room because like my wrist Hurts or something. That's not necessarily actually that serious. But under the Taiwanese system. It doesn't really make the difference that patient whether they go to the ER whether they go to their primary care doctor how coolly to differentiate is really a medical need. Oh just some people want so it's hard to determine. So what we're going to Medical Care people actually need versus what they your dream. My heart one really Vivid picture that Max painted for us was he told In Taiwan the doctor in the hell and the paging the heaven but in Taiwan the patients are in heaven and the doctors are in hell.

4 (8m 38s):
Hey when the hell and that was how he saw it as a doctor practicing in Taiwan and you know, every Health System comes with trade-offs and I think that speaks to the ones that Taiwan has settled on we want it to be really easy for the patients. But that means we're going to put a strain on our providers to okay. So while the system is immensely popular, it's imperfect. Perfect. Are there any alternatives there are there are countries like the Netherlands that instead of having public insurance for everybody? They've got private insurance for everybody. Can we go there too. Let's after the break on today explained.

4 (9m 19s):
Nobody likes a line. Right? What if you could make the line go faster, there is a way clear wants to make your life safer simpler and more secure by getting you through security at airports and stadiums and other venues faster. This is how they do. It clear replaces the need for physical ID cards like a driver's license or a passport and instead uses your fingertips convenient and eyes super convenient you Always have those to verify that you are you so you can get you through security easily. You create your account online before heading to the airport. And once you get there a clear Ambassador fancy helps you finish up.

4 (9m 59s):
Then you can use it immediately clear gets you through security faster and sixty five airports some stadiums and other venues across the country. It's probably the best way to get through an airport security line faster and it works with pre-check to right now listeners of the show can get First two months of clear for free fre ego to clear me dot coms explained and use the code explained that is CL EA RM e.com explained and the code is explained for your free two months of clear. What you going to do with all that extra time. Listen to today explained.

4 (10m 41s):
Hi, I'm Ariel Jim Ross. And I'm the host of a podcast called reset reset is a podcast about the impact of technology how humans have shaped it and how technology reflects our values and biases reset is also a podcast about how much good Tech has accomplished and how much better it could be if we listen to each other recently. We've covered stories about how artificial intelligence is being used to track coronavirus. We've also covered how to solve the problem of child Predators on gaming sites. And why our night sky might soon be filled with thousands of new satellites subscribe to reset for free on Apple podcasts Spotify or in your favorite podcast app later nerds.

4 (11m 26s):
Today today is not explained. So Dylan Scott Healthcare reporter here at vaux champion of the everybody covered series here. We are standing in the Netherlands. Look at that. Some people are biking by. Oh and a canal look a rowboat going through the canal. Shall we go eat some fruits we can guess, you know, I have to say that the only thing I was disappointed, Then in my trip to the Netherlands was the food but did you notice the healthcare? They've got over there? So yes the Dutch have a Universal Health Care system that in some ways is the polar opposite of the system in Taiwan.

4 (12m 9s):
So instead of universal public health insurance where everybody gets an insurance plan from the government, which is what the Taiwanese have the Netherlands has Private health insurance for everybody. So everybody gets coverage, but you buy it from a private health insurance that of the government Can't explain to the folks at home and me because I don't know how a fully private but fully funded universal healthcare works. So I might get into the details. I hope you don't mind the Dutch system actually shares some important characteristics with Obamacare that a lot of people are probably familiar with you've heard a lot about it since I signed it in the wall, so they have bands on pre-existing conditions.

4 (12m 52s):
We're not going to go back to a time when people's coverage. It was dropped when they got sick. They have an individual mandate. So if you don't sign up for insurance, they'll find you twice and then they'll just automatically enroll you in an insurance plan and start garnishing your wages to pay for it. Thanks Obama and they have a lot of government assistance. So you could shop for a plan that fits your needs and then we will give you tax credits to help you buy it like the government provides a lot of funding to help keep premiums affordable for people. That means it's less than your cell phone bill because I know you guys are Eating a lot and texting and selfies.

4 (13m 34s):
Now the Dutch system goes beyond Obamacare and a couple of important ways. So let's start with a basic fact the majority of Americans do not let me repeat do not get health care through the Affordable Care Act. This is like Obamacare for everybody not just for you know, the 10 million or so people who buy insurance on the individual Market here in the United States everybody in the Netherlands gets their health. Insurance through this private market and the government plays a much more active role than the even the US does through Obamacare. So in Taiwan you had the system where everyone goes to the ER because they don't have to pay for it do people in the Netherlands not go to the ER because they have to pay for it.

4 (14m 22s):
Yeah, so the Dutch have actually tried to design their system so that people are a little more rational about how they use their Of care. So for Dutch patients, if you go see your primary care doctor, it's free. You don't have to pay anything. You just show up you walk out without a bill, but if you go to the emergency room, you have to pay towards your annual deductible, which is Captain about 385 Euros a year something like 420 US Dollars. That's 420 Dylan. Basically the if you're somebody who's like sitting there you've got something that feels kind of wrong, but you're not sure you have a choice between either going to the ER which will cost you like 400 bucks or you could go to your GP and you can get treated for free, but does that mean that people who like accidentally chop off their left forearm are like going to their GP to be like help?

4 (15m 18s):
I can't answer that hypothetical Vivid though. It is specifically but I will say doctors in the Netherlands are more likely to say that their patients have a Higher cost burden like it's harder for them to afford their medications or pay for medical care. If they do need to pay for it, then people in other countries how long have they had this system? So they overhauled their system in 2006 have they figured out anyways to sort of work out the Kinks in it, maybe people avoiding going to the ER people overburdening their GPS. Yes. So one place where this all kind of comes to a head is like what if somebody needs medical care?

4 (15m 59s):
Care outside of normal business hours. What do they do? I think in the United States a lot of people are just like well, I'm going to go to the ER but like the Dutch are trying to avoid that. So what Dutch doctors have done is set up these cooperatives where a bunch of Dutch primary care doctors will team up basically and they'll pull all their patients together and they'll give them a number and say like if you have a problem after hours, you can call this number and there will be A doctor who can handle your question over the phone and you know, if you're like chronically ill or you have like a disability or your elderly it's hard for you to get out of the house.

4 (16m 40s):
They'll even have a Doctor Who's out in an SUV roaming around the countryside ready to make home visits for patients who need it tell me you went for a ride in that Dutch SUV Dylan. Oh, yeah. We were out on the road for like four hours. So this dr. Elise it was her job that night, too. Go out on home visits, so she and her driver Henry check to make sure they had everything they needed and then they hopped in and me and our photographer for the Dutch story got in the back and we were off. And so the first place that we stopped I think is a nice example of like how this after-hours CARE program is really supposed to work.

4 (17m 22s):
We're going to see this guy who had called because he was feeling a lot of pain and we parked kind of down an alley a little bit like away from the main road along this like block of row houses. At least got out to see this patient this older man who is experiencing a lot of pain, but after she did her exam her checks on him. She was like, you know, this really isn't serious enough for you to go to the emergency room. So she told him that there was some diagnostic tests that he should get done and that he should call his regular primary care doctor one of the leases colleagues in the coop the next day and so like this guy who'd been in pain had like gotten See a doctor he gotten some fresh medical advice and like a writ to follow up with his regular doctor the next day, but he didn't have to leave his house.

4 (18m 16s):
He didn't have to drag himself to the emergency room. And the care that he got provided was free to him. So this Co-op idea for me was sort of a perfect example of the Dutch way of thinking about health care. How do the people like the system? It's still relatively new. So I think on the whole like the Dutch are proud of their system it was abundantly Clear from all the people that I was visiting with that they're really proud of how they've managed to organize the healthcare system that often kind of depends on individuals or private actors, but that, you know having a health system built on those foundations is also going to come with some downsides Okay. So we've heard about two systems we heard that they both have flaws and they're both well-liked by some of the citizens who use them.

4 (19m 3s):
What do you think works best? I mean at the end of the day we were just like That American systems actually looking pretty good right now. So I that would never be my conclusion the American system did not look better in any respect. But the way I think of it is more every system is going to have its trade-offs. So in Taiwan, it's really easy for the patient for the most part right like costs are really low. You can go to the doctor for free, but the trade-off for that is that the doctors feel really overwhelmed and stressed in the Netherlands on the other hand like they've done Done a pretty good job of managing how people use Healthcare and like imposing this cost-sharing to try to encourage people to be more rational about how they use their health care, but that makes it harder on the patient's because you know, if you make the mistake of going to the ER when you shouldn't suddenly you're out four hundred bucks, when if you had gone to your GP it would have been free.

4 (19m 59s):
And so I think it's up to every country to try to decide which of those kinds of trade-offs are more acceptable to us. Distinguishes. The United States is we have not reached sort of the collective understanding that both Taiwan and the Netherlands have that everybody should have health care in the first place. And so I think that's where we fall short. But once you've decided to build a Universal Health System, it's about figuring out which of those trade-offs are more acceptable based on you know, what patients want doctors wants and balancing the interests of the two. Well, maybe we'll get there one day. Owen yeah, maybe Dylan Scott, he's a reporter at vaux who covers health care.

4 (20m 43s):
You can find his everybody covered series at vox.com. He and producer bird Pinkerton also made a version of this story for the impact podcast. You can find that wherever you're listening to this. I'm Sean Rama sperm. It's today explained.