1 (7s):
The president is taking troops out of Syria because he's tired of endless Wars endless Wars endless Wars. They don't stop they don't stop they go on forever. We become policemen because he wants to bring our soldiers back home American combat

2 (24s):
troops should not be at the center of ancient sectarian. X all over the world bring our soldiers back home bring our soldiers back home

1 (38s):
because this isn't our war to fight. If you look at other countries, Russia or China, they don't have countries to take care of we have we're close to 90 countries in one form or another. We're in 90 countries all over the world policing and frankly many of those countries. They don't respect what we're doing. They don't even like what we're doing and they don't like us but now it looks like they're not coming home at all. The current game plan is for those forces to reposition into Western Iraq, and then to two missions one is two Help defend Iraq and to is to perform a counter Isis Mission as we sort through the next steps United States troops are being pulled out of Syria and sent to Iraq to continue fighting an endless war but also to help fight Isis, even though the troop withdrawal in Syria might actually help Isis in that country.

1 (1m 35s):
And if you're having trouble wrapping your head around that just wait until you hear about Saudi Arabia. And response to the Kingdom's request the president has approved the deployment of US forces which will be defensive in nature and primarily focused on air and missile defense. We will also work to accelerate the delivery of military equipment to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UAE to enhance their ability to defend themselves.

2 (2m 5s):
So the Pentagon announced that it was going to be deploying an additional 18 hundred troops to Saudi Arabia defense secretary Mark esper announced that he had ordered the deployment of two additional fighter squadrons and support Personnel, including two batteries of soldiers Patriot air defense missile systems and another army unit. So far three thousand troops in total have been sent to Saudi Arabia since these attacks that happened last month on Saudi Arabia's oil facilities, which is why US troops are going there.

1 (2m 34s):
Now Jen Williams is one of the hosts of vaux's worldly podcast. I asked her to explain why the United States is ramping. Up in Saudi Arabia while it's shipping out of Syria and she says it goes back to about a month ago.

2 (2m 51s):
So if you remember last month, there were these attacks on two separate Saudi oil facilities more than 20 drones attach. The world's largest oil processing facility in Saudi Arabia and a major oil field sparking massive

1 (3m 5s):
fires

2 (3m 7s):
Flames seen here glowing Saturday the smoke billowing in these satellite images. U.s. And multiple European countries have all basically said that they found that Iran was behind those

1 (3m 19s):
attacks. This was a Ron true and true and the United States will respond in a way that reflects that act of War by this Iranian revolutionary regime.

2 (3m 29s):
So when it happened it cause this, you know immediate spike in oil prices. It was just really big kind of panic people were like, oh, no, you know Saudi produces a lot of oil for the global market, so it's really disruptive and As part of this kind of broader issue of Iran kind of acting out in the region after the withdrawal of the u.s. From the Iran deal. Right? So is part of this whole us Saudia wrong

1 (3m 52s):
drama that was going on in the region, but how exactly does the US get roped into sending troops to Saudi Arabia. There are other ways to help right? You might

2 (4m 1s):
remember there's a lot of talk about like is the u.s. Going to attack Iran in response and people were saying, you know, well that doesn't make sense. We're not technically allies with Saudi Arabia right in any formal sense. So what like why do we have to attack Iran? They didn't hit us. They hit Saudi Arabia. So the solution basically at the Trump Administration came up with was look we'll send you some additional troops to secure those oil facilities the idea basically being that you know, if you have US forces at these really critical Saudi facilities and Iran knows the US forces are there. It's a deterrent to Iran because Iran is not going to go ideally bombing these places if they know they're going to potentially hit US forces.

2 (4m 41s):
Yeah, because that would mean Then you did actually hit the US and now you're going to start a war with the United

1 (4m 46s):
States kind of like a tripwire almost basically sounds very comparable to the US troops who are stationed in northeastern Syria that were preventing turkey from entering the

2 (4m 57s):
country, right? Yeah, wherever you have US troops people tend to pay attention because you know, if you launch a military attack, you're going to hit the United States and poke the bear so to speak so that's kind of what we do for our allies or at least we used to to our troops there to make sure that other countries don't attack. That's why US troops are in South

1 (5m 16s):
Korea. So this is obviously extra confusing because the Kurds were allies right and we're not doing this for them, but we are doing it for Saudi Arabia right how exactly does the president justify that

2 (5m 31s):
so it doesn't really make sense. Right? If you're thinking about America First the idea of pulling troops out of the Middle East like that makes sense. But then why are we putting troops back in somewhere else for this other Middle Eastern country? Right and you know the short answer is Saudi Arabia apparently agreed to pay

1 (5m 46s):
us.

2 (5m 49s):
What yeah to pay for this troop deployment.

1 (5m 52s):
They've agreed to pay for the cost of those troops. They've agreed to pay fully for the cost of everything we're doing over there. That's something you have. Never heard before I think as long as you've been standing out there, I think you the media has never heard that before but Saudi Arabia has graciously agreed to pay for the full cost of everything we're doing for them. What's

2 (6m 12s):
the rate? Well, I'm not sure what the going rate is. It's usually like reimbursement, huh? This is actually kind of pretty normal. And especially when it comes to Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia helped foot the bill for Operation Desert Storm. Remember back in the 90s when the u.s. Sent troops to Saudi Arabia and you know to Kuwait to help push Iraq back out of

1 (6m 31s):
Kuwait. We were getting paid for that by Saudi

2 (6m 33s):
Arabia Saudi Arabia and Kuwait and a couple other countries agreed to reimburse us for that operation and they did to the clerk billions of dollars there also. Remember that the u.s. Is assisting Saudi Arabia and its war in Yemen by doing things like aerial refueling so helping them refuel their planes in the air things like that

1 (6m 51s):
and we're getting paid for that too.

2 (6m 52s):
Yeah. They're also like congress's DOD and Congress have sent Saudi Arabia a bill say you got to reimburse us for that. So that's actually pretty normal. Even in places like South Korea or we have US military bases. You've heard Trump actually complaining that they're not paying enough, but they foot the bill for a lot of the costs of actually running the bases things like that. That so it's actually pretty standard. It's just not the way we tend to think about it that like only if you will pay me will I protect you right and the Kurds didn't have money like Saudi Arabia has a lot of oil money, but the Syrian Kurds that we were allied with we were allied with them for a different reason. They were giving us something else instead of money. They were fighting Isis for us.

2 (7m 33s):
And that was the trade-off will protect you from Turkey if you fight Isis for

1 (7m 36s):
us, How does Congress feel about this

2 (7m 41s):
Nancy Pelosi just the other day in that meeting? She had at the White House with Trump and some of his senior aides. There was that famous picture of her kind of standing up and scolding Donald Trump around this big table. You might have seen on the internet, but at one point during that meeting she did say you're super excited to pull US troops out of Syria because of this America first thing my question to him was is Saudi Arabia home the Saudi Arabia home. Why are my troops going to Saudi Arabia if you promised to bring them home? Apparently Trump just got really bad and called her nasty names and the whole meeting blew up and she walked out, you know, so Congress is aware of this, right and plenty of Democrats are probably asking similar questions, but the u.s.

2 (8m 24s):
Is already been helping set Arabia with its war in Yemen, you know, we have all these agreements for like basically counterterrorism sharing kind of agreements and training agreements that we do with all sorts of countries. We sent troops. I get that we have

1 (8m 38s):
these counterterrorism agreements, but it feels like we have similar agreements and interests in Syria. So who benefits more here Saudi Arabia or the United

2 (8m 48s):
States? Well, it's definitely Saudi Arabia but it's really not that different. Honestly than previous u.s. Administration's I mean the US has kind of always had this weird relationship with Saudi Arabia, you know, again, we sent troops in in the 90s to help protect Saudi Arabia against you know aggression from Iraq when Iraq invaded Kuwait Saudi was like, oh, we're probably next. Yeah, and so we sent troops there to help we again, you know under the Obama Administration. It was President Obama who agreed to help the Saudi war effort in Yemen, right? It wasn't Trump. So it's actually pretty normal from a u.s. Foreign policy standpoint for the US military to help out Saudi Arabia or to work with Saudi Arabia think that's actually one of the most normal things that Trump has done what's different in particular with Trump is is kind of what happened in Syria, right?

2 (9m 37s):
Right. We are actually more used to seeing US troops being sent to place the Middle East Asia to help out allies or to you know, Shore up oil facilities or to push back against Iran where you're not used to seeing these people pulling troops out, right? So Trump sending troops to Saudi Arabia is not that surprising. It's surprising for Trump, maybe because you know America first I want to end us wars in the Middle East but he's kind of getting a good deal out of it. Right like as long as they pay for it, you know US soldiers probably aren't going to be actually directly In Harm's Way and like any real Hence in Saudi Arabia. It's not like, you know in Afghanistan where they're getting shot out or bombs like every day. So it's a relatively safe deployment compared to some other areas, right and you know in return the US doesn't have to start a war with Iran, right?

2 (10m 21s):
Because remember this is essentially the reason that Trump sent these troops to Saudi Arabia, right? So there was this attack by Iran on the Saudi oil facilities. Everyone was like, oh you're going to have to bomb Iran and Trump being Trump was like, I really did not want to start another war in the Middle East. So instead of doing In that instead of bombing Iran in response. He did what I would say is probably a much more reasonable, you know policy response, which is to send a few thousand troops to Saudi Arabia to Saudi Arabia. Look we're gonna send you some forces there to protect your oil facilities is going to be okay and that way like we didn't have to start this big old war with Iran, right? So so that does make sense in some ways. Right, right, but how does it look

1 (11m 0s):
to be saying we're going to pull our troops out of Syria because we've been here long enough. And at the same time we're going to send a bunch of troops to Saudi Arabia because they're paying us what impression does that leave the region and maybe just on a slightly broader scale the

2 (11m 17s):
world. Yeah. It definitely doesn't look great. Right. So if I'm a world leader kind of looking at Trump's decisions here in Syria and Saudi Arabia and comparing them. My first response would probably be Trump is just doing whatever the hell he wants right. It's impulsive. It doesn't seem like it's actually being driven by A broader strategic plan like oh, well, these guys will pay us. So that's cool. We'll do that. But these guys aren't and I don't see a point over there. So let's leave. Yeah rather than looking at like the Middle East and our geopolitical kind of strategy more broadly and going. Okay. Does this make sense for the long-term goals that we have? Because if you think about it remember we're supposed to be carrying out this maximum pressure strategy towards Iran does your the administration's words we're supposed to be putting pressure on Iran through these like really harsh economic sanctions, but also through pushing.

2 (12m 6s):
Iran on the ground in various countries where they're active. So Iraq Syria. Remember Ron has troops on the ground and proxy forces on the ground in Syria defending Bashar al-assad and that group is also aligned with Russia. So by pulling the US troops out of that part of Syria the courage then made a pact and made a deal with Assad who again is backed by Iran to you know, Ally and basically said, okay also your forces can come in and protect us. Because the Americans left and we need protection against turkey. Yeah, right. Well that gives Iran more of a foothold in Syria than they already had. So yeah, you're pushing back around in Saudi Arabia by sending these troops and saying hey don't attack these oil facilities, but then you're giving them more room to cause chaos in Syria.

2 (12m 53s):
Like it just doesn't make sense strategically. It's like a very schizophrenic policy because it's not being looked at as a holistic Grand strategy in the way that you would hope that a leader in the commander-in-chief would do now President Obama got A lot of criticism for handling the Middle East peace meal like this and saying there wasn't a grand strategy. That was one of the biggest critiques of the Obama administration's policy in the Middle East was that it was very just like one-on-one like we will do this in Libya. We will intervene in Libya. We will not intervene over here. We will do this and there wasn't a grand strategy and you're seeing the same kind of thing with Trump, right? You're seeing that it's based on his kind of gut reaction and not well thought-out policy. I don't know if that's surprising to anyone at this point.

2 (13m 34s):
I'm pretty sure world leaders are pretty. Clear that he's not a strategic Master, but there's another thing to especially related to you know, Saudi Arabia and turkey, you know, he made this decision to pull US troops out of out of Northeastern Syria basically on a phone call with president recep tayyip erdogan of Turkey and he's been kind of repeating Turkish talking points ever since and basically saying like everything that turkey say well this this ceasefire that they announced just holding and turkey totally wants this and the Kurds are really happy like none of that is true. You know, it's just what turkey wants. Everyone is getting everything. He wants from Trump. So Saudi Arabia just got what they wanted from Trump because of money turkey got it for whatever reason.

2 (14m 14s):
So if I have a world leader, I'm seeing, you know, looking at this and seeing that Trump is really easy to manipulate. If you're a strong dictator, if you have money, if your goals happen to coincide with Trump's or maybe even if they don't you can probably talk Trump into it if you just say the right things and convince him and that's what's really scary to me out of all of this is that you could actually if you're the president you could turn to your CIA director, you could turn to your intelligence community and ask them these questions like what will pulling US troops out of Syria do with respect to Iran. How does this fit with our on policy? This makes sense sending these US troops to Saudi Arabia.

2 (14m 56s):
Does this make sense in terms of wanting to pull out of the Middle East? Right? Like he can make these calculated decisions but there's no sense that that's happening. He's just doing what he thinks is the right thing in any given second in large part based on being influenced by these dictators and that's really scary if that's how US foreign policy is being made on a whim and because a dictator talk Trump into it. Like that's not how we're supposed to operate is the most powerful military. Terry in the

1 (15m 24s):
world Jen Williams is the foreign editor at vox.com. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today explained.

1 (16m 8s):
If you ever listening to this podcast and you're like man, I love this podcast, but they kind of only do one story a day. I wish they did a couple more quick hits on stuff. I also need to know about there's another podcast you can check out. It's called need to know from the people at cheddar need to know has like a two in the middle instead of a tea. Oh, so just so you know, it's need to know with a to they do the news but like in a bit less time and a couple more stories every day Monday through Friday and And you can find their show right now wherever you find your podcasts. Bye.