3 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from who we are if Ben and Jerry got together to make a podcast. It certainly wouldn't be about ice cream because I'd be too obvious. Maybe it'd be about like Vermont but there's only like four thousand people up there. So maybe it's like not broad enough for the general listening population. So they went with racism which turns out it is it is Broad enough who we are is a Chronicle of racism in America based on ACLU Deputy legal director, Jeffrey Robinson's acclaimed presentation of the same name and you can find it wherever you find your podcasts.

2 (36s):
This episode is brought to you by Amazon music HD you clearly like to listen to Great podcasts. You probably have great taste in music too. But are you still streaming your favorite songs and compressed low quality. Audio Amazon music HD is a high-def music streaming service that lets you. Listen to the best music in the best possible quality. Hi,

3 (58s):
I'm Isaac and I'm a music obsessed audio producer.

2 (1m 0s):
Join me a little later in the show as I explore why I love music with the Of Neuroscience and Amazon music HD start your 90 day free trial and hear the difference today at amazon.com music HD renews automatically new subscribers only limited time offer terms of fly.

3 (1m 26s):
It was just one week ago that President Donald Trump and Vice President Joe Biden met in what was easily the ugliest televised presidential debate in the history of the United States. And I know we're all eager to forget it. But there was this one moment that's worth revisiting. He want to call him. What do you want to call him? Give me a name. Give

2 (1m 46s):
me by surprise. That's been right like me to stand back and stand by but I'll tell you

3 (1m 53s):
what, I'll tell you what somebody's got to do. Something about antifa and the left because this is not a right President Trump didn't just fail to denounce the proud boys. He emboldened them which is really scary. If you know who the proud boys are and if you don't Jane Coast in his here, she covers conservatism and far-right groups for Vox, but before we start just a heads-up that the proud boys are a group of racist misogynists who say all sorts of hateful things. You might not want to hear we will begin after something we all do. Want to hear the sound of two boys. I'm very proud of my buddy. Roshan playing with his beautiful baby boy named maybe bb-bb-bb-bb-bb-bb-bb

1 (2m 35s):
me.

3 (2m 51s):
All right deep breath. And here we go.

1 (2m 55s):
So the proud boys are essentially a far-right street fighting group and they were founded by one of the founders of vice-like

3 (3m 7s):
vice-like Vice on like HBO vice-like Vice news.

1 (3m 11s):
Oh, yes Vice like Vice on HBO Gavin McInnes who he found it voice of Montreal. Which later became vice media. He found out in the early 90s and Early 2000s Vice used to be very much of like everything's very ironic. And actually all of our racism is extremely ironic and you're only people who are not getting it or taking it. Seriously.

3 (3m 36s):
What kind of racism or are we talking about here? What was he promoting?

1 (3m 40s):
So he for instance told the New York Times. I love being white and think it's something to be very proud of

2 (3m 47s):
my hunt for example of thing about the other day. He was watching some a about cheap qua forget Chappaqua in those monkeys are the most like us. They're the most human acting Apes Chappaqua. I can't remember anyone my son's watching it and he's eating popcorn and he thinks he recognizes one of them from another movie and he goes, oh, I like this kind of have a bit of a lift and of all, I like this monkey actress, which is what I said when Jada Pinkett Smith did her video about the

1 (4m 17s):
Oscars. It's challenging because again, Much of this has been cast within this veil of irony that anything he says can be posited as either you have to take it super seriously or he's joking and so many people took it as he was joking and then later started to think hey, hang on a

4 (4m 38s):
second

1 (4m 40s):
and that's because after he leaves Vice media in 2008, he moves to what he called the new right which is essentially this idea of Western chauvinism. And a concept of social Liberty nism for instance. He wrote a lot in the early 2010's about how he wanted totally defile the women he sleeps with and how women want to be abused. Oh no, and he started working later for a Canadian far right Outlet called Rebel media in which he made a video called 10 Things. I Hate About Jews. Oh, no, then when he got criticism for that, he would later tweet 10 Things. I Hate About the goddamn.

2 (5m 20s):
Motherfucking Jews. Oh no,

1 (5m 22s):
and so then he gets a lot of support from you can to guessed it a lot of racist. So he's written for a bunch of quote-unquote racial realist organizations, including video and American Renaissance and he's gotten a lot of support from well-known racists like David Duke for his outright anti-Semitism. Hmm. And so a lot of this is his eye entire concept that there's a war on masculinity which Apparently he will take on by complaining a lot. So he'll complain about commercials that have too many interracial couples as if there's a correct number of interracial couples to Heaven an advertisement or commercials that show quote emasculated men.

1 (6m 5s):
He's real sense is that there is a belittling and the mainstream media of white

4 (6m 10s):
men.

3 (6m 13s):
Okay. So provocative bigot Canadian who works in alternative Indie and later Fringe media. Is putting out lots of hatred and toxicity for years. What does he do

1 (6m 26s):
next? He created the proud boys

2 (6m 30s):
the proud boys again going with this veil

1 (6m 33s):
of jokey. Irony

2 (6m 36s):
from you. I'll make you proud of you. It started out as a

1 (6m 42s):
joke the song proud of your boy which comes from the Disney Aladdin musical helped to inspire the

2 (6m 49s):
name. I wish I've always hated me. So say I'm slow for my angel egg blue. Okay, I agree and so the entire concept as

1 (7m 4s):
government has explained in 2016 was that this is a group of people a western chauvinist who refuse to apologize for creating the modern world. They want to be part of the days where girls were girls and men were men and there are multiple levels to become a a proud boy levels and I would like to note here that this is all going to sound. Weird part of this entire thing of wrapping it in jokey. Irony, is that when you try to take it seriously, you sound like an

2 (7m 36s):
idiot mom. I will try to try hard to make you proud. So there is four levels to become a frat

1 (7m 57s):
boy. The first is to declare yourself a proud boy. The second is to swear off masturbation. So they're

3 (8m 5s):
Catholic know

1 (8m 8s):
it's masturbation gets you distracted from you know, the things you should be paying attention to like being angry about how many interracial couples are now.

2 (8m 16s):
Retirements

1 (8m 18s):
that is combined with a Serial bead in so if you want into the group, you have to get beaten up by its success while successfully reciting the names of five breakfast

3 (8m 26s):
cereals. Are you joking? I

1 (8m 28s):
regret to tell you not joking and you can people can search on the internet, please God don't do this. There are videos of people getting beaten up by reciting these names because and I quote defending the West against the people who want to shut it down is like remembering cereals as you're being bombarded with

3 (8m 46s):
Fists so they beat people as they recall cereal names to like prepare them to initiate them.

1 (8m 53s):
Yes. Yes, that is what happens. So that is the level two level three is to get a proud boys tattoo, but the fourth level and I think what gets into what the actual point of this group is is you have to get into a fight for the

4 (9m 13s):
cause.

2 (9m 19s):
The proud boy is have perhaps become best known before the debate for this violence. The point of The Proud boys is to

1 (9m 28s):
attract

2 (9m 30s):
counter protesters who they will then fight.

1 (9m 33s):
All they do is exist to create events purely to attract counter-protesters because if you provoke counter-protesters, you can feed a victimization narrative that That is what they want. They want to fight people. They want to use

3 (9m 49s):
violin. How does this go from like one Canadian who says provocative and misogynistic and racist things in various like Indie hipster media, like 15 years ago to an organization that's out on the streets in 2020 wreaking havoc the

1 (10m 9s):
internet the public Facebook group for the proud boys, which I believe has since been removed has thousands of members. There are you proud boy organizations online that we're in which you could kind of create a local chapter of The Proud boys and the entire Point again is to draw viewers and draw sympathy online. So even these street fights that take place where the proud boys might be vastly outnumbered by antifa or nothing will actually happen until a problem. I will instigate something in which to get that victimization narrative and then they can get a lot more support online by basically saying we're the last Bastion against whatever you want it to be.

1 (10m 57s):
Proud boys were at the unite the right rally in 2017. There have been meetups and chapters and cities across the country. They rely a lot on attention for instance being able to put themselves as being you know, the entity that standing up against antifa, especially in in fights that they themselves are creating. That's what this is about. It's about creating a effective online narrative while also getting to punch people in the face. That's what they

4 (11m 24s):
want.

3 (11m 31s):
What happened after the debate after the

4 (11m 34s):
break?

3 (11m 43s):
Support for the show today comes from Stitch fix a lot of people don't like shopping for clothes online because what you end up getting doesn't look like you thought it would or because you know, it doesn't fit like you thought it would but Stitch fix gives you a better way to buy clothes online. There are personal styling company that makes it super easy to get stylish clothes that actually fit you and that you'll end up loving our audio engineer here on team today explained a theme Shapiro gave it a try and I gotta say everyone's been commenting on how good a theme looks right now out there in Maryland via VIA zoom and it's a real shame that the world can't see a theme in his stylish clothes as much anymore because he's working remotely but there will be a day where we'll all be able to appreciate the feem again, and we're all really excited for that.

3 (12m 36s):
Try Stitch fix for yourself. Go to stitch fix.com explain you'll get 25% off when you keep everything in your fixed. That is Stitch. It's fixed.com explained for 25% off when you keep everything. They send just Stitch fix.com / explain.

1 (12m 55s):
This is Advertiser

3 (12m 56s):
content. What's your favorite song this week? Hi, I'm Isaac Kaplan Wallner a music obsessed producer for Vox creative. I know that I love music deeply but I'm not exactly sure why so with the help of Amazon music HD. I tried to find

2 (13m 12s):
out music feels like you're entering a different realm and that's that's a realm Beyond you

3 (13m 20s):
that's Jessica Dobson guitarist and lead singer of Seattle band deep sea

1 (13m 24s):
Ivor and it matters to me because I

3 (13m 26s):
know that it affects people in ways that I couldn't imagine there are places in our hearts that other things can't

2 (13m 33s):
access and I know that music can do that music can

3 (13m 42s):
reliably put us into a mood On a par with certain Drugs That's neuro scientist and musician Daniel J. Levitin author

2 (13m 51s):
of this is your brain

3 (13m 52s):
on music fast music. Tends to Goose the adrenaline system slow

2 (13m 57s):
music tends to do the opposite happy music can release dopamine and serotonin. We can

3 (14m 3s):
see distinct neurochemical changes in response to different kinds of music. So music

2 (14m 10s):
isn't just something we love it's a central part of who we are and it can help us feel

3 (14m 14s):
better and do better in our daily lives step up to uncompressed Pure music that allows us to hear and feel more with Amazon music

2 (14m 23s):
HD start.

3 (14m 24s):
90 day free trial and hear the difference today at

2 (14m 27s):
amazon.com music HD renews automatically new subscribers only limited time offer terms applied.

3 (14m 44s):
Jane how did the proud boys end up being on the debate stage was Joe Biden and President Donald Trump a week ago,

1 (14m 53s):
I think because they represent the support for militia groups that has been so implicit among swaths of the right the idea that if the left has antifa and this is again in the view of the right then the right need something to fight back against them and that's actually been you know, that really plays into the proud boys narrative despite. Acted the proud boys will fight basically anyone and have instigated fights themselves. And so it comes up at the debate because Joe Biden suggest that Trump condemned the proud boys and instead Trump plays exactly into what the problem is what he says

3 (15m 33s):
problem was hers stand back and stand by but I'll tell you what, I'll tell you what somebody's got to do something about antifa and the left because this is not a right wing problem is always a

2 (15m 44s):
Levi I direct this says that let we've got about

1 (15m 47s):
white Survivor and he later said that he meant that the group should stand down and let law enforcement do their jobs and then denied knowing who they were which seems odd because not only does it should Trump probably be aware of this group. But also Roger Stone Trump's one-time Ally and subjective a recent presidential. Pardon joined the proud

3 (16m 11s):
boys. Oh, they're taking convicted felons.

1 (16m 14s):
Yeah by saying that he was in support, there is no word yet as to whether or not he's gotten into a fistfight over the proud boys but you know, maybe

3 (16m 23s):
why is it that Joe Biden brought them up specifically

1 (16m 26s):
I think that because that they are a group that people had heard of I think that are or that he had heard of especially in connection with violence there had been people associated with the proud boys and I fix it that was a name that just happened to be Be top of mind because I think that proud boy is generally threatened to show up anywhere where they think or where they believe opportunity can strike in Portland. And in Seattle, you saw proud boys showing up there are lots of other people that you could think of but I think especially if your concern is Street violence, if you're Joe Biden and you're running on being reasonable and calm the proud boys of the exact opposite of that the

2 (17m 12s):
reason why I say there's a war coming. Because of trump wins black lives matter and all them other and Teeth of dumbasses are going to try to start War we ready. Don't worry. We ready us rednecks and stuff. We ready for y'all, but everybody wins. We coming and we come and strong.

3 (17m 36s):
So what effect did it have when the president told this extraordinarily racist chaos causing misogynistic hateful group of basically what internet trolls to stand down and stand by.

1 (17m 53s):
I mean, they responded by saying that that's awesome and thank you on telegram a group leader wrote standing down and standing by Sir. Also a new logo with the president's words

3 (18m 5s):
appear. They responded passionately and with tremendous enthusiasm. So they see this as a call to Arms. Is there a risk here that the amount of attention that was drawn to them at the presidential debate actually ends up like boosting their numbers that it's a boon to the proud

1 (18m 25s):
boys. I think that it could be a boon to support for the proud boys. I think that the actual joining of the proud. Boys because again most people don't themselves want to fight people on the streets. I think that the ideological support could be a boost but I think the actual membership that is going to be itself a challenge to keep in mind that to get past being a first level proud boy requires getting beaten up a tattoo and then beating up somebody else

3 (18m 56s):
do we know how many proud boys are out there at this point? We do

1 (18m 60s):
not again because a lot of the people who are talking about Out proud boys are people who are either wanting to overplay it for their own purposes or underplay it there are not that many proud boys, but there are now more people than ever who have heard of The Proud boys.

3 (19m 17s):
So like we're talking about hundreds of proud boys thousands

1 (19m 20s):
tens of thousands. I would say not thousands. I would say probably

3 (19m 23s):
hundreds. Okay. So this isn't something despite being brought up at a presidential debate. This isn't something that we need to worry about in this country that some sort of militia. Shh of Dunces is going to be pouring into the streets at any moment.

1 (19m 37s):
I don't think so. But I think that the support that these groups are getting especially though because so much of that support is tangential. I think that that is concerning because while people may not want to get into violent actions themselves they in some ways want someone else to on their behalf.

3 (19m 60s):
Does that mean the best antidote to the proud boys is to just ignore them?

1 (20m 3s):
Yes, if they were doing an event that is supposed to make you want to yell at them don't yell at them. It's the proud boys could not gain any attention from by doing absolutely anything. I would say, that would be a real win for everyone including Society

3 (20m 32s):
Jane Costa. You can hear more from Jane on the weeds podcast where she's a co-host. It's obvious from our conversation with Jane that the proud boys mostly hang out online on social media. But one thing that ended up on The Cutting Room floor is that there's been a number of homophobic incidents with the proud boys. They haven't been very kind to the gay community. But in the vein of another win for everyone including Society, there was one this weekend in the wake of the debate gay couples took over the proud boys. And flooded it with photos of themselves kissing and hugging and caressing and just being gloriously gay.

3 (21m 12s):
There's something to be proud of I'm Sean Rama's Forum. Its today explained. We really really really really really

2 (21m 35s):
so sad

3 (21m 37s):
Did he really really

1 (21m 40s):
really, LOL?

2 (21m 48s):
Hi, I'm tech journalist. Kara Swisher. No, man, why you Professor Scott Galloway every week on the pivot podcast. We dig into the biggest stories in business Tech and politics help. You understand what they actually mean for our future even name the thought leadership podcast by adweek and the best business podcast of the Year by the Webbie's we're also known for making big predicted mostly Scott about the economy and occasionally, they come true Scott. Give us a quick prediction right now. Okay, here's my prediction. This show will make you smarter. This one are you will believe you're smarter. This is like to taking Edibles. You're going to think you're smart, even though you're not but it doesn't matter if you think you're smart. Are you not you are it's perception not reality. We obviously don't stick to the script which is why you should listen every Tuesday and Friday on Apple podcasts or wherever you get your podcast.