0 (1s):
This podcast is brought to you by Twilio, for businesses around the world, unlocking and unifying real-time customer data is critical, especially for delivering truly personalized campaigns at scale. That's why companies like Instacart into it. And IBM are turning to Twilio, which was recently ranked number one for 2020 market share and customer data platforms by IDC to learn how Twilio can help your business harness real-time data and build customer engagement like no other visit twilio.com

3 (40s):
On Tuesday, a man named Muhammad Abdul Aziz filed a lawsuit against New York state. He's seeking at least $20 million in damages after being quote, unjustly branded as a convicted murderer. The man, he was unjustly accused of murdering Malcolm X. Now, if you're like Malcolm X wasn't, he assassinated like almost 60 years ago. Yes, but there've been a lot of developments lately, including this year and a guy named <em></em>

4 (1m 9s):
Muhammad. I'm a historian and a journalist has kind

3 (1m 12s):
Of been right in the middle of them. This

4 (1m 15s):
There's been a renewed interest generated in this history as a result of a groundbreaking documentary that came out in the fall of 2019 called who killed Malcolm X Malcolm's death never sat right with me.

2 (1m 36s):
Investigation failure, asking who's guilty is a dangerous question to ask

4 (1m 41s):
What is the real story? Because in the history book, leaving, they're leaving alone and unlike previous documentaries in years, going by this particular documentary actually answered that question pointing to an actual person. Yes.

2 (1m 59s):
That is something that has been floating around that Alamo staffers Chabads known as well. And Bradley was the shotgun man that, that took Malcolm that took Malcolm now.

4 (2m 12s):
But I think it's because of that documentary, that folks are talking about this again.

3 (2m 17s):
And what's important here is that in addition to pointing to an actual person, it also pointed to some wrongful convictions.

4 (2m 25s):
Well, that's exactly right. The documentary because the district attorney of Manhattan, Cyrus, Vance Jr to re-investigate the assassination of Malcolm X or completely open up the file once again,

5 (2m 40s):
And Muhammad Ozzies and Kelela Islam always maintained their innocence. So the 1965 assassination of Malcolm X now after 55 years, their convictions will be vacated after a two year investigation led by the Manhattan district. Attorney found prosecutors, the FBI and police withheld critical information that should have cleared

3 (3m 3s):
And a month ago almost to the day they're exonerated. I apologize.

6 (3m 7s):
It's on behalf of our nation's law enforcement for this decades, long injustice, which has a in public faith in institutions that are designed to guarantee equal protection of the law.

3 (3m 19s):
I know you're very close to this story between the wrongful conviction, the exonerations. Now this lawsuit this week, what, what is this story sort of tell us more broadly about our criminal justice system and about this country, well

4 (3m 34s):
Tells us that it's far too easy to convict a black person in America in the criminal justice system. Barry Scheck, who was one of the attorneys for these recently exonerated men said

6 (3m 58s):
It's been an exoneration in plain sight for

4 (4m 2s):
Meaning that if anyone really cared about black men and incarceration, it was clear to anyone. You know, that these men were innocent and should have been not only exonerated, you know, decades ago, but in fact, should have never been arrested in the first place.

3 (4m 24s):
Well, let's go back to when they were arrested, let's go back to February, 1965. What was going on in the days before Malcolm X, his assassination

4 (4m 35s):
Receiving numerous death threats on the morning of February 14th, 1965, his home was firebombed in Queens.

8 (4m 45s):
I received several threats that his life was in danger and everyone took it lightly and said that he was talking out of his mind that it didn't happen. And the police and the press, when the house was bombed, they were very unfair trust saying that my husband had bombed his own house, which was very bad.

4 (5m 2s):
It was common knowledge that he was being hounded and hunted by members of the nation of Islam. And every city he went to speak. So his life was under threat and there was peril around every corner for Malcolm X at that time. And the handwriting was on the wall. What was going to happen?

3 (5m 31s):
And for people who don't know the history, why was the nation of Islam after Malcolm X,

4 (5m 38s):
X was the former spokesman for the nation of Islam. He was a beloved figure in the nation of Islam until he wasn't.

9 (5m 47s):
Wow. He loves the television and the press. Not that he would do anything to get himself out in the open.

4 (5m 54s):
He began to see the contradictions in the movement, the kind of moral failings of the leader, Elijah Muhammad, who was presented to the following as something of a prophet or messenger of God, a divine figure. And Malcolm began to expose some of the contradictions in his life, his numerous affairs with young secretaries and the babies that he was siring by these secretaries and this us scandalized the nation and it scandalized Elijah Muhammad. And it put Malcolm in the mold of a Benedict Arnold of a hypocrite.

4 (6m 35s):
And in fact, they called him the chief hypocrite. This was actually a call for death to call someone a hypocrite at that time. And the nation of Islam was really to call for his death. He committed the unforgivable sin of scandalizing his teacher and leader, Elijah Muhammad.

10 (6m 55s):
He's the victim of his own Christian. He preached brought him in so he could come to pick them up.

4 (7m 0s):
Okay. So tell me what happens the day of his death, The day of his death, he was staying in a hotel in Midtown Manhattan. He was taken to the Autobahn ballroom, where he was obviously very irascible, uncomfortable, nervous, kind of cantankerous. Even he went backstage, he sat down, he kept asking about the guests because a number of his guests had canceled. This was, you know, a big day for him. He was going to be revealing his program for the organization of Afro-American unity.

4 (7m 44s):
However, none of his guests was showing up. So he was very angry about that. He kept getting up from his seat, walking to the curtain and looking on the other side of the curtain, looking at the audience. And he was overheard to say, you know, I shouldn't go out there today. I shouldn't go out there today. He kept saying that his assistant minister was warming up the crowd, a man by the name of Benjamin two X Corinne, about 400 people, arrayed in very simple folding seats out there. They Audubon ballroom and minister Benjamin said to the audience I bring to you minister, Malcolm X, a man who would give his life for you.

4 (8m 31s):
Malcolm walked to the rostrum. He gave the audience, the greeting, the Islamic greeting. I Salaam-Alaikum, the audience said wildly come Salaam. And at that very moment, someone in the back of the hall said, get your hand out my pocket. And it created quite a Rawkus whereby the audience turned to see what was going on. This person took a smoke bomb, hurled it to the floor. It was just a complete Rawkus. And in that moment of misdirection, a very big man kind of Brawny walked up to the stage and pulled out a sawed-off shotgun from underneath his coat, about 15 feet away.

4 (9m 16s):
And he blasted it straight at Malcolm's chest and just completely failed him to the stage. His body was supine, it just fell back and didn't even have time to buckle. It just fell right back in his head, hit the stage with a loud thump. The crowd started screaming and going berserk. And at that moment, two other shooters stood up from the front row, one, firing a Luger and the other 45 and empty their guns into Malcolm's body on the stage.

4 (9m 58s):
And they all ran out. He had a small pulse, but slowly the pulse disappeared. And he passed away on the stage there.

3 (10m 10s):
What does the investigation into the assassination of Malcolm X look like

4 (10m 14s):
To me, it doesn't look like it was that serious, that detail, that meticulous, it was wrapped up in a couple hours and later that evening, and that very ballroom, there was a dance that was held about seven o'clock that night. I'm sorry.

3 (10m 32s):
In the same place. Malcolm X was assassinated. They held a dance a few hours later,

4 (10m 39s):
Right there in the auto bond ballroom and the very spot where he was assassinated. There was a dance around seven o'clock that evening. There really wasn't much physical evidence to be quite honest with you. And this is what makes this case so problematic. The convictions of the assassins in 1966, all three of them was based on eye witness testimony. There was no physical evidence whatsoever linking them to the crime. They arrested at the scene, a man named Talmage Heyer. He was shot in the leg as he was fleeing by one of Malcolm's security detail.

4 (11m 20s):
About five days later, Mohammed Abdulaziz, who at that time was known as Norman three X Butler. He was arrested at his home in the Bronx. And then on March 3rd, kolel is slammed known at that time. As Thomas 15 X Johnson, he was arrested at his home. They weren't even at the scene. They were identified by who we'd like to know. And that is some of the questions that we still like to get some answers to.

4 (12m 1s):
Very soon after the assassination, please had a working theory that it was obviously more than one person. I mean, just from the shell casings that they found. So they, from the very beginning, we're working with the theory that it was at least three up to five assassins that were involved in this. So they knew it just couldn't be Talmage hair. So they had to be more arrests. So then, you know, the question becomes, you know, who were the other people involved? And at that time they said that it was Mohammed Abdulaziz and Kahlil Islam, Norman three X Butler and Thomas 15 X Johnson, who they arrested at their home days later, a week or more later, what are they

3 (12m 49s):
Charged with? The three of

4 (12m 50s):
Them, first degree murder for the assassination of Malcolm X. And what did the

3 (12m 54s):
Three of them plea?

4 (12m 55s):
They all pled not guilty initially. And during the trial, when it became clear that the all three were going to be convicted, the true assassin Talmudge Hare took the stand and he confessed. And

11 (13m 12s):
During the trial, I had stated myself that Norman Butler and Thomas Johnson were not involved in the killing of Malcolm X. And I would like to see the brothers exoneree

4 (13m 33s):
He thought in the beginning of the trial, that his two co-defendants would be cut loose, that it would be obvious to anyone that they had nothing to do with it. He knew his role. He did not know these men. And when it became frightfully clear to all three of them, that they were getting ready to get sent down the river, that they were going to get convicted. Then his conscience compelled him to take the stand and admit his guilt and make some type of hail Mary attempt to clear these men, but the jury for whatever reason, didn't believe him.

4 (14m 14s):
And they will all three convicted

3 (14m 17s):
Hasty investigation. One of the defendants admits his guilt and tries to on the spot sort of exonerate his co-defendants. It doesn't work. All three of them go to prison. Are there efforts to reopen this investigation in the years that follow

4 (14m 40s):
Talmage Herr changed his name to BoJack head Abdul Halim. He starts to practice what is called Orthodox Islam or Sunni Islam, and had a spiritual and emotional crisis. He had a breakdown in prison because he had killed this great man. And he would have to live with that for the rest of his life.

11 (15m 6s):
I can't change that. What has been done? I didn't only say that I am deeply sorry for my participation in this. And I know that there'll be people who can never forgive me, but I pray. And in my prayers, I pray five times a day and I'd ask all mighty God law to forgive them.

4 (15m 23s):
He will go into history is an infamous personality who did this heinous crime against all a black America. And he couldn't live with himself. So he started doing television interviews where he was clearing Muhammad and Khalila slam again. He filed affidavits with the famous attorney, William Kunstler. He named his four accomplices, his co-conspirators, however, it never went anywhere. There was a judge, a New York judge named Harold Roth wax who ruled that this was insufficient to reopen the case.

4 (16m 10s):
And the whole thing just went away. Again. <em></em> Mohammed on who really did kill Malcolm X in a minute on today, explained

0 (16m 48s):
This podcast is brought to you by Twilio, for businesses around the world, unlocking and unifying real-time customer data is critical, especially for delivering truly personalized campaigns at scale. That's why companies like Instacart into it. And IBM are turning to Twilio, which was recently ranked number one for 2020 market share and customer data platforms by IDC to learn how Twilio can help your business harness real-time data and build customer engagement like no other visit twilio.com

12 (17m 16s):
Cover story, a new investigative podcast from New York magazine. Our first season is about a secretive underground. That's about to go mainstream psychedelic therapy. I would love for you to talk about the moment where it went from being something safe to something treacherous and bad. Oh boy. That was dark cover story. Season one, power trip, check out cover story on Spotify or wherever you listen.

3 (17m 53s):
All right, Mr. Mohammad, before we broke for the break, you said that despite one of Malcolm X's murderers taking responsibility, clearing these two other men, Mohammed Abdul Aziz, and Kaleel Islam, a New York judge says tough. Not enough to reopen the case that's decades ago. Eventually the Manhattan da does re-investigate the case, is it to figure out who really murdered Malcolm X or just to exonerate these two men.

4 (18m 20s):
That's all it was, was an examination of the integrity of this conviction. It was done under the auspices of the conviction integrity program. And all it looked at was exculpatory material. It doesn't posit a full blown theory of who was responsible. It only examined the question of where these two men responsible and it concluded that they did not receive justice.

3 (18m 57s):
So the Manhattan DA's investigation doesn't tell us any more about who may have been involved in this assassination, along with Talmudge Hare, who admitted he did it, but your documentary who killed Malcolm X does make some more assertions. Well,

4 (19m 14s):
Yes it does.

14 (19m 15s):
So it's a very detailed recounting. They say he is a Negro male age, 28, 6 feet, two inches, 200 pounds, heavy build dark complexion, wearing gray coat and believe to be assailant who used

4 (19m 31s):
Shotgun. There's a man in the story. His name is Leon for X, Amir. He was a trusted associate of Malcolm, right? Well, it comes to find out that Leon forks I'm here turned out to be an FBI informant. And at the time of Malcolm's funeral, he did an investigation and it does point to William X. Bradley of Newark, New Jersey.

2 (19m 56s):
That is something that has been floating around that Alamo staffers Chabads known as William Bradley was the shotgun van that, that took Malcolm that took Malcolm out.

4 (20m 11s):
He was a Lieutenant in that community. He was the Lieutenant of the mosque. And this was, this is actually in the FBI documents. Got my hands on the FBI's file on William Bradley. And there, it was in black and white. This particular source advised that William Bradley was an officer Muhammad's mosque 25 and serving as the Lieutenant of the FLI. Yeah, it is clearly the FBI knew that Bradley was a Lieutenant in the mosque. So that was one of the more striking revelations that I saw. I knew that Leon for XR, Mir had provided this information to the FBI.

4 (20m 54s):
In fact, we show that in our series who killed Malcolm X, but I did not know that he was actually an informant for the FBI and that, you know, he pointed directly to Newark and that by the summer of 1965, they knew that the shotgun assassin came from the Newark mosque number 25. They knew what he looked like. They had a photograph of him and they never revealed his identity to either the prosecution or the defense team.

4 (21m 34s):
But in August of 1965 months before the trial began, this lead about the shotgun assassin, being a dark skin, Lieutenant from Newark was considered our, you see, refer it upon completion basically, that's it closed it out for no apparent reason. Didn't let the New York city police department know.

3 (21m 57s):
So is there a chance that the additional men who may have participated in this assassination will be brought to justice one day? Are they still alive?

4 (22m 9s):
They are not, they are not sadly. And unfortunately they are all gone right now.

3 (22m 15s):
Okay. So th there'll never be true justice for Malcolm X or his family. What about for the men who were exonerated Khalil Islam and Mohammed Abdulaziz? I don't believe they both even live to see themselves exonerated, right?

4 (22m 31s):
One dead. And one did not Mohammed Abdulaziz, who is today, 83 years old, the effects and the fallout from the conviction was catastrophic on his family.

15 (22m 46s):
When I left him, the oldest was five. And when I returned in 1985, they were all grown, had children and was living their own lives. And didn't particularly want to hear anything that I had to say. So I essentially don't know my grandchildren, my great-grandchildren or my great, great grandchildren. I got some of all the roles and I don't know that.

4 (23m 11s):
And even though he was released after 20 years, he still had to live with the, the stigma of being the killer of this great leader and the paranoia that comes with that, that realization. You know what I mean? That you always have to look over your shoulder, looking out for that street justice that might be delivered to you because you are perceived as being, you know, the murder of Malcolm X. But fortunately he was able to live long enough, see this day and he was in the courtroom.

16 (23m 49s):
And if you just caught, you stopped through this for a piece of paper telling me I'm innocent. I'm very glad that my family, my friends and attorneys who have worked in support of me all of these years are finally seen the truth that we have all known officially recommended.

4 (24m 7s):
However, clear Islam who was known at that time was Thomas 50 next Johnson. Sadly, he passed away in 2009, trying to clear his name. And it was a very grim picture at the end of his life.

17 (24m 23s):
For me, I kept the secret identity. I had to pretend like I was, you know, there was no sharing of who my father was at all, and I never discussed it. I have friends today that they're looking at me and they're in shock

4 (24m 38s):
The psychological and the financial tools that it took on him just warmed down. And it was very, very sad at the end for him. And

3 (24m 48s):
<em></em> Islam. Can't Sue New York state, but Abdul Aziz Muhammad now is for $20 million. And I read that as lawyers plan to file a $40 million civil rights lawsuit, if they can't come to an agreement in 90 days. So this 83 year old man isn't wasting any time, but all that money, if he gets it at all, won't buy him back a life lost. And it just feels like this tragic irony that these black men's lives were thrown away without evidence for the assassination of a civil rights leader. And why, you know, we may never know why

4 (25m 26s):
The question is why that's exactly right. One injustice and the murder of Malcolm X now leads to this other injustice of two innocent men going to prison, who they knew were innocent. The man alleged to have carried the shotgun. Kahlil Islam looks nothing like the real shot gun assassin. You know, it looks nothing like him at all. Okay. And that's even reflected in the FBI's own documents, own files, own reports that were filed the very next day, February 22nd, the next day of the assassination, they had reports from their informants of what the assassin looked like.

4 (26m 15s):
A description of him from head to toe in resemble nothing of Thomas 15 X Johnson . So I think that's, that's the most important question I think, needs to be answered. And I don't know if it will ever be answered to be, to be quite honest with you

3 (26m 33s):
And Malcolm X. He wasn't exactly universally beloved in life. A lot of people wanted him dead. And when he died at the hands of his former, the press said, you know, a man who called for violence died by violence, but it feels like since then the world has come to view him differently. Why is that?

4 (26m 57s):
Well, because he was a sincere man, Malcolm X was not afraid to re-examine his positions and to correct his positions when he felt that he was wrong, which is a very fine quality to have as a human being, you know, but especially as a leader, to be able to say, I was sincerely wrong, I was wrong about that. And I think that, you know, that is a quality that, that is missing in so much of today's leadership. And he spoke to the affairs of the world in a way that made him ahead of his time.

4 (27m 40s):
He spoke to Vietnam way before it was politically expedient to speak about Vietnam long before, you know, Muhammad Ali stepped out there and condemned the one Vietnam, Malcolm stepped out there and condemned the war in Vietnam,

18 (27m 58s):
Tell you that Negroes are being hung on the tree or being shot down illegally unjustly, and those Negroes to do something to protect themselves. You say you're advocating violence. The white man is tricking. You he's trapping you. He doesn't call it violence. When he lands troops in south Vietnam, he doesn't call it balance. When he lands troops in Berlin, when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor, he didn't say get non-violent. He said, praise the Lord, the past the ammunition.

4 (28m 35s):
He talked about colonial Africa and the liberation of Africa.

19 (28m 40s):
And it wasn't necessary for the Afro Americans in the United States to be organized, but it's also necessary for the Afro Americans in the Caribbean, or then the Afro Cuban is the Afro.

4 (28m 52s):
And so he has been written into the pages of history for that foresight. And for that pressing at vision that he had,

18 (29m 1s):
The police are able to use the cramps to make the right public thinks that 90% or 99% of the Negroes in the Negro community are criminal. And once the white public is convinced that most of the Negro community has a criminal element, then this automatically paves the way for the police from moving to the Negro community, exercising, they get stopped tactics stopping any black man who was in the, on, on the sidewalk, whether he is guilty or whether he is innocent, whether he is well grasped or whether he is poorly dressed, whether he is educated or whether he is done, whether he's a Christian or whether he's a Muslim.

18 (29m 47s):
That's one is he lacking a member of the Negro community. The white public thinks that the white policeman is justified in going in there and trampling on that man's civil rights. And on that means human rights.

3 (30m 11s):
<em></em> Mohammed is a historian, an independent journalist and an all around authority on the life and legacy of Malcolm X. You can watch his investigation into the assassination on Netflix. The series is called, who killed Malcolm X. The film was directed by Rachel Jetson and Phil Burleson's. Thanks to each of them for letting us use excerpts of the series on today's show, which was produced by Heidi. <em></em> edited by Matthew Collette engineered by Paul mousey and fact checked by Halima Shaw and Laura Bullard. The rest of the team today explained includes we'll read Myles Brian and Victoria Chamberlain. Lots of help this week from Christian Iola and Jillian Weinberger Amina outsidey is our supervising producer.

3 (30m 56s):
Liz Kelly Nelson is the VP of Vox audio B's music from Breakmaster cylinder. And no I'm Hassenfeld too. I'm Sean Rama's from today explained is part of the Vox media podcast network.

12 (31m 55s):
Cover story, a new investigative podcast from New York magazine. Our first season is about a secretive underground. That's about to go mainstream psychedelic therapy. I would love for you to talk about the moment where it went from being something safe to something treacherous and bad. Oh boy. That was dark cover story. Season one, power trip, check out cover story on Spotify or wherever you listen.