0 (1s):
I am Joel Anderson. I'm a writer at Slate Magazine and host of the Slow Burn Narrative podcast series, including season three, big and Tupac.

2 (12s):
Joel's the kind of person you reach out to when there's been an arrest in the Tupac Shakur murder case. The only thing is there's never been an arrest in the Tupac Shakur murder case until now. We

3 (24s):
Are here today to announce the arrest of 60 year old Dwayne Keith Davis, a k a Keith, e d.

0 (32s):
He was charged with murder, with use of a deadly weapon. And there's this tremendous breakthrough in an investigation that technically never went cold, but seemed destined to go unresolved in the legal system.

3 (42s):
Well, I know there's been many people who did not believe that the murder of Tupac Shakur was important to this police department. I'm here to tell you, that was simply not the case.

2 (52s):
Big news on a case 27 years old, Coming up On today explained.

4 (1m 2s):
I went to the precinct and I said, look, I wanted to talk about a murder that I think happened

5 (1m 9s):
In 1993. Tril Coleman shot a man, but was never a suspect. He kept the secret for years and years.

6 (1m 18s):
I've heard of people turning themselves in, but it's usually soon thereafter, the crime. I've never experienced anything like someone coming forward 17 years after the fact. So, no, this is absolutely extraordinary

5 (1m 31s):
Here. Ravel's story on the latest episode of Criminal. Listen, wherever you get your podcasts.

2 (1m 47s):
The first thing I wanted to ask Joel Anderson was how surprised he was a week ago today when he got the news that there'd been an arrest in the Tupac case.

0 (1m 56s):
Not very, because the guy who was arrested had kind of been implicating himself in Tupac's murder for at least the last five or six years. So there's either two ways to think about it. One, well, they're just never gonna arrest anybody just 'cause they don't think they can make a case, or that it's inevitable. Like one day somebody's gonna be like, Hey, this guy's been talking a lot about being there on the night that Tupac got killed. Maybe we should bring him in. And so it seems that they finally settled on option B. Okay.

2 (2m 25s):
I wanna hear a lot more about how we got there and how this person goes so long without getting arrested apparently. But let's just take it back to the nineties right now, and the climate in which these two Titans of rap were murdered.

0 (2m 46s):
You know, Tupac in 1996 and Biggie, they're two of the biggest stars in America at the time of their death. But Tupac in particular, I mean, Tupac was a record breaking rap artist. His last two full length albums debuted at number one on the charts, all Eyes on Me. His double CD even made it to number one on the pop charts. He'd been in a handful of movies, including Poetic Justice with Janet Jackson, which is, you know, a movie. Not a great one, but it was a movie.

7 (3m 12s):
No one made a mistake, but everybody made mistakes and,

0 (3m 16s):
And, and, and he certainly seemed poised to do even more in that medium.

7 (3m 19s):
I can act No one alive, I think has as much life experience to draw from.

0 (3m 25s):
And for Tupac in particular, calling him controversial doesn't quite cover it because first of all, at the time of his death, he'd not even been outta prison for a year on sexual abuse charges. It's

7 (3m 36s):
Not even about my trial no more. It's just about loud rap music, tattoo, having thug. She's talking about thug life and all that, trying to, he's like, he's definitely guilty. Anybody with Thug Life tattooed on their stomach is guilty. What type of reasoning is that?

0 (3m 51s):
I mean, man, you know, there are a lot of famous rappers that have popped up in his, in the aftermath over the last 27 years. And a lot of guys that have stolen his swag, whether it's the tattoos, the bandanas, the nose rings, the sort of like, I don't give a fuck ethos, really sort of long outlived him in his career. And so a lot of people have wanted to be Tupac, but the problem is that not very many people could be him, because it was a totally different time. And he's a totally different person.

7 (4m 19s):
I'm tired of waiting for my past to get into society. All I ever wanted to do was make me and everybody around me feel more comfortable about where we were, about the places that we stayed, where we, this is our home base, let's build it up. Let's be happy about where we come from. You know what I'm saying? Instead of trying to assimilate and get a passkey to where they at,

0 (4m 38s):
At the end of the day, I mean, Tupac was a lot of things to a lot of people. But in 1996, as he's just out of prison, he's released this hot album that's, you know, all over the pop charts. He seemed newly ascended. He was poised to become, you know, one of America's biggest celebrities.

2 (4m 59s):
And then what happens on September 7th, 1996 in Las Vegas,

0 (5m 5s):
Man? So that night, Tupac had been part of a huge death row. Records entourage in a Mike Tyson fight

7 (5m 13s):
With Tyson getting the week. He not fucks up. Well, that's what Tupac gonna do.

0 (5m 29s):
Mike Tyson at the time was fighting to regain one of his heavyweight belts. He fought a kind of a tomato can named Bruce Selden. So Tupac recorded the song that Tyson walked out to that evening, and he was even supposed to perform later that night at the nightclub owned by Death Row record. C e o should knight after the fight is when things go awry.

7 (5m 49s):
When niggas come against me, I'm gonna knock they punk ass out. If he didn't have anybody to fight, he'll find somebody to fight.

0 (5m 55s):
One of the guys in Tupac's crew, he was a member of the Blood's Set, mob Piru, and they saw a young man named Orlando Anderson while walking through the MG and Grand Hotel in Vegas. That member of the crew, the blood told Pac, isn't that

8 (6m 12s):
Orlando Anderson, the Crip that stole our boys death row Medallion the other day.

0 (6m 16s):
Tupac hears this and decides to handle things himself.

8 (6m 20s):
Pac says he did what? I'm gonna go jump on this dude.

9 (6m 25s):
Ain't nothing but against the party.

0 (6m 30s):
He rushes over to Orlando, Anderson punches him, and the rest of the death row crew joins in and stomps him out right there in the casino. And you can see it on surveillance video from that night, like Tupac Suge, they're jumping on him, you know, kicking him and everything else. And then they rush out of the M G M, they regroup at their hotel. They're on their way to this club that was owned by Suge called Club 6 6 2, and they're gonna perform. And so while all this is going on, Orlando Anderson's licking his wounds. Hmm. Not only did he get beat up, I mean he got humiliated in front of everybody by a bunch of bloods. That is a mortal sin for a Crip, right? So he links up with his uncle and a couple of other friends, and as they drive around Vegas that night, waiting around to see if they can see Tupac in his entourage.

10 (7m 16s):
We was just all in the car again, just laid up. This was the white Cadillac? Yeah. Used to go drink and smoke some weeded.

0 (7m 23s):
In fact, they were getting ready to go to a liquor store when they heard a couple of women screaming Tupac's name on the street. And they say, oh shit, that's Tupac. That's Suge Knight.

10 (7m 33s):
He's hanging out the window like he was in parade Tupac. Yeah, he was.

0 (7m 37s):
And so they flip around and pull up to them at a red light at an intersection there in Vegas. A arm emerges from the car, 40 caliber gun and shoots.

11 (7m 49s):
He leaned over on the window. We rolled down the window, popped who they was, drove on my side. I was popped. You know what I'm saying? but they was on the other side, right?

0 (7m 59s):
And Tupac is shot four times, once in the arm, once in the thigh, twice in the chest. And he goes to the hospital from there. And it was a week later that he dies of his injuries.

2 (8m 13s):
And it sounds like you know who did this. And I wanna ask you how you know,

0 (8m 16s):
I think I know. I think I know Sean. I think I know. Okay.

2 (8m 20s):
Tell me how this investigation into the killing of Tupac Shakur goes, at least initially

0 (8m 28s):
Speaking with people who were there that night. I mean, one of the things that we do know from Vegas police is that they were just sort of scattered. And they get there. Suge Knight is in his car, in the median, disoriented shot, injured himself. There's all these other people that are part of the entourage. They're like, what the hell just happened? And the police show up and handcuff them and put them there in the median. Now keep in mind, these are people that have victims of a crime. They have witnessed their friend, their affiliate get gunned down in the street, and they're traumatized. And yet the police have sort of antagonized them. So that didn't do a lot to win over people and make them wanna cooperate with the murder investigation.

0 (9m 10s):
Right. And the police, and they were sort of slow. And some of that is because it was a drive by shooting. I mean, it was really difficult to piece together who shot 'em, but they didn't do themselves any favor. but they did interview a few people, Orlando Anderson being one of them, and they just couldn't pin the shooting on him. You know, Orlando Anderson says to the police, I was a victim that night. I was attacked. You're interviewing me. Yeah. How dare you interview me and think that I would kill somebody? Hmm. And so they didn't get a lot of assistance in those early days, and there wasn't really a lot of incentive to talk. I mean, keep in mind, in addition to the fact that the police worked as antagonist in this, this is fundamentally street stuff and street stuff gets handled on the street.

0 (9m 51s):
And given that it's understandable why the Vegas Police Department didn't get a lot of assistance from the people who were there at the time. So they've had all this forensic evidence that, that they've put in storage for the last 26 years. But it wasn't until recently that people started talking about, maybe I was involved with this. Maybe I know what happened. That they started cracking it back open and were able to tie people to Tupac's murder.

2 (10m 15s):
So how long is it until we have a lead in this case? It's not cold from, you know, 1996 to 2023, is

0 (10m 22s):
It? No, it's not. And in fact, things start to open up in 2006, huh? When the L A P D decides to look into Biggie's murder in LA and they assign a guy named Detective Greg Cating.

12 (10m 35s):
Well, initially I was assigned to work on the Biggie case. 'cause that was an LA based murder case. And by way of investigating Biggie's murder, we got involved in investigating Tupac murder.

0 (10m 46s):
And so he starts looking around trying to get some information. Well,

12 (10m 49s):
When we were looking at Tupac's murder, we were evaluating two theories. You know, the Suge Knight did it Theory or the South Side Crips did it theory. Yeah. And as we began to kind of go through a process of elimination, we were able to pretty quickly dismiss the Suge Knight theory.

0 (11m 5s):
And of course, he starts looking into Orlando, Anderson's life and all the people that he's associated with.

13 (11m 11s):
Kefi D was Orlando's uncle.

12 (11m 12s):
That is correct. Kefi D was Orlando's uncle.

13 (11m 15s):
How did you identify these four people in the car?

12 (11m 17s):
Actually, through the confession of Kefi d himself. And so he

0 (11m 20s):
Interviews Kefi D in 2008. I seen

11 (11m 23s):
A bully going Suge head. I thought he was dead.

0 (11m 26s):
And the way that they were able to do this is that Kefi D was a well-known drug trafficker. He'd already spent some time in prison. They managed to catch him in the act trying to resuscitate his drug dealing business. And they say, Hey, look, we'll make a deal with you. Why don't you tell us what you know about the Biggie murder, and maybe we'll cut you a break on your drug trafficking case. And he says, we didn't do that one. Hmm. Right. Which is, which one did you do? And, and then that's when it all starts to start to come out. Now that investigation ultimately goes nowhere because at the time L A P D was being sued by Biggie's family for kind of botching the investigation, they're able to settle the case.

0 (12m 15s):
And so L A P D says, well, there's no need in doing anything else on this. We might as well shut down the investigation. So the investigation stops in like 2010, and it sort of sits there until 2018 when Kefi D starts giving interviews to hip hop shows, talking about his involvement in the Tupac murder.

10 (12m 33s):
He's Coming up flamingo and got to the light and he happened to be hanging out the window.

13 (12m 38s):
So what happens next?

10 (12m 40s):
I ain't gonna go into the details like that, you know what I'm saying? But you know, you got it in a book. But,

0 (12m 49s):
So that's around, it's around 2018, 2019 when he starts to make raising his hand and saying, Hey guys, I was actually involved in this, and let me tell you how

10 (12m 59s):
Let him buy the book then. Okay,

13 (13m 0s):
Well, I'm just gonna read the, this passage. The shit was on Tupac, made an erratic move and began to reach down beneath this seat. Pac pulled out a strap, and that's when the fireworks started. One of my guys from the backseat grabbed the Glock and started busting back the first shot skin shug in the head. And I thought that motherfucker was dead. As the rounds continued flying, I ducked down so I wouldn't get hit.

10 (13m 22s):
Basically. Yeah,

2 (13m 28s):
You'd think closure is coming, but actually probably not. That's next. On today explained.

14 (13m 49s):
I am Josh Muccio, host of the Pitch from Vox Media. People describe the pitch as the Antis Shark Tank. And I actually agree, take everything you think you know about venture capital startups and fundraising and throw it out, because on my show, you'll hear the true story of how these deals get done on our upcoming season. You'll hear legendary investors like Charles Hudson and Elizabeth Yin invest over a million dollars in the startups featured on our show. And let me be clear, none of this is staged. Each episode of the pitch features real entrepreneurs pitching real investors for real money. Then we go the extra mile to tell the true story of what happens after everyone shakes hands and walks out of the room.

14 (14m 35s):
Listen to season 10 of the Pitch podcast to learn from the smartest investors and founders in the world. New episodes drop on Wednesdays. Follow the pitch for free wherever you listen. So we've got three potential mysteries. Mystery one,

16 (14m 54s):
I think there's a fourth mystery.

15 (14m 56s):
Where is that sound coming from?

16 (14m 58s):
You all hear it? Two, right?

15 (15m 1s):
So mystery one.

16 (15m 4s):
No one answered my que. You hear it two, right?

14 (15m 7s):
I dunno what you're talking about. Oh God,

16 (15m 9s):
Not again.

14 (15m 11s):
This week on unexplainable comedian Wyatt, AK plays our game show. Unexplainable or not, he's gotta guess which of these mysteries has actually been solved. And he gets to do it with the help of a pact live audience.

15 (15m 28s):
Wow, that's really helpful, huh? Yeah. Yeah,

16 (15m 31s):
That's, that's, I don't know how people do it on the price is right

14 (15m 36s):
To hear why it do it un unexplainable or not follow unexplainable for new episodes every Wednesday.

15 (15m 56s):
It is just me Against the world

2 (15m 59s):
Today. Explained is back with Joel Anderson from Slate. Right when we left off, this case was breaking open because it sounds like one of the people who helped murder Tupac Shakur, Dwayne Kefi d Davis was admitting that he did it. What's going on there? Well,

0 (16m 16s):
Let's go back to 2008. After Kefi D has spoken with L A P D under a proffer agreement thinking that it's gonna help him in his drug trafficking case, and he's cooperated with police, he is like, all right, I've done what I said I was gonna do. You guys are gonna cut me a deal. I'm free. So fast forward to 2018, and he's a middle-aged man. He's in his fifties then, and he starts giving a lot of interviews on hip hop YouTube channels about his involvement in this case.

17 (16m 46s):
It wasn't until 2018 that this case was reinvigorated. As additional information came to light related to this homicide, specifically Dwayne Davis's own admissions to his involvement in this homicide investigation that he provided to numerous different media outlets.

0 (17m 2s):
And actually in 2019, he releases his own autobiography, his memoir called Compton Street Legend. In that autobiography, he gives detailed explanations about what happened that night, September 7th, 1996 when Tupac was killed. And he says, Hey, look, I was there. I was sitting in the, in the passenger seat. My nephew was in the back. I had another fr a couple friends in the car with me, and this is how it all went down. So he starts giving all this information away and people are like, Hey, he's kind of confessing to Tupac's murder. I wonder what's gonna happen?

2 (17m 35s):
What takes this arrest so long? Why does this happen seven days ago?

0 (17m 39s):
There's a lot of competing theories about that. One is that maybe police were just waiting for him to give up enough information so that it would meet the really, you know, tough bar for a conviction. I mean, you know, if they bring this guy before everybody in public and say, Hey, look, we've got somebody arrested in the Tupac murder. They wanna make sure that they can get a conviction. Hmm.

2 (18m 1s):
What are the charges they're bringing against Kife D? So they've

0 (18m 4s):
Charged Kife D with murder, with use of a deadly weapon. This

18 (18m 7s):
Is the indictment we've been waiting almost three decades for.

0 (18m 13s):
And police said when they brought him in that they never had the necessary evidence to bring the case forward and present it for criminal charges. And so it's evident that everything that Kife D has been saying since 2018 is the biggest piece of it. This

17 (18m 27s):
Ultimately led to us procuring a search warrant, which was executed at Mr. Davis's residence in Henderson, Nevada. And following the execution of that search warrant, this case was presented to the grand jury, which ultimately led to Davis being indicted on charges of murder.

0 (18m 41s):
I think just as a note of explanation, because we talked a little bit about his cooperation with police earlier with L A P D, there are a lot of people that seem to believe that Kefi D had a really poor understanding of what the legal implications were for this word. Hmm. That he thought that because he had already cooperated, that he could just kind of say whatever, that he had immunity, that he, he could confused a proffer agreement with immunity. That's not how it works. And, and in fact, Nevada doesn't have a statute of limitations like they can charge you for murder at any point. So they just kind of were laying in, wait is is what it seems like. And Kife d incorrectly believed that, Hey, I've already, I've already told the police what I did, so I'm good. Now. It

18 (19m 20s):
Has often been said Justice delayed is justice denied, but not in this case. Today justice will be served in the murder of Tupac Shakur.

2 (19m 31s):
So is this it Joel? Is this it after 27 years? Is this the conclusion that that Kefi d Davis pulled the trigger murdered Tupac Shakur in Las Vegas in September, 1996?

0 (19m 49s):
No. No. There's a lot of things at play here. For one, kefi D is not thought to have been the gunman in this case. Huh? And there's some confusion around that. It's belief to have been one of the people who was riding in the backseat of the car with him on that night in September, 1996. Those two people, Orlando Anderson, his nephew, who he sort of tried to implicate as the guy who did the shooting. Right? And then there's another guy, the Deandre Smith man that I mentioned earlier, and one of the witnesses in the grand jury said that it was Deandre Smith who actually did the shooting himself. Hmm. So it's unclear why Kefi D is trying to create this sort of confusion, but I would imagine that he's cagey.

0 (20m 34s):
Like this is a dude who had a couple of drug trafficking organizations. He's not a dumb man. And so he probably understands that if I keep some of these details murky and people can't quite figure it out, that maybe that's another layer of protection in any criminal proceedings. But you know what, he's also written things in his book that he later disavows in interviews. Like he says in his book, after we murdered Tupac, we went back to our hotel and poured out a 40 for and drank to him. Right? Hmm. In an interview that he does, he says, nah, I didn't do that. Like, that's just something you sometimes write, just make things seem, you know, a little more dramatic or whatever. So again, we're not talking about the most trustworthy dude here. And also there's still not gonna be a lot of cooperation among the remaining witnesses of which there is one Suge Knight.

0 (21m 20s):
There

19 (21m 20s):
Was only two people in the car and talk. Not gonna tell the story. I ain't gonna tell the story, but I tell you this, I never had nothing bad to say about Orlando because number one, he wasn't the shooter. Number two, he came to my hearing and told to let me go and tell the truth.

0 (21m 36s):
Suge Knight said from prison the other day, he told t M Z that he's not going to help.

20 (21m 40s):
And you are saying that if you're called to testify by either side, you will not comply, you will not testify. Do I have that right?

19 (21m 50s):
Thousand percent? I wouldn't go, I wouldn't testify none of that free Q P

0 (21m 54s):
D. He doesn't want Q P D to go to prison.

19 (21m 56s):
Let's get one thing straight. First and foremost, if he had an involvement with anything, if he didn't have any involvement in anything, I wouldn't wish somebody going to prison on my worst enemy.

0 (22m 6s):
He knows Kfi D going back to playing Pop Warner football in Compton. Right? So they have this relationship as well. So you can charge a ham sandwich, right? But getting a conviction is gonna be something else. And you know, the one thing that Kfi D has on his side is that he's been sort of sprinkling in a few lies with the truth all along to sort of, you know, confuse the record here.

2 (22m 31s):
What do the fans, you know, think about the way this is played out? You know, you made a whole show about this East coast, west Coast beef between Tupac Shakur and Notorious B I G. Both are gunned down in the nineties. Neither crime is ever solved. How do fans contend with that?

0 (22m 50s):
I mean, I think they're handling about as well as they could, right? I think there is some relief at the idea that, well, somebody's gonna go through some legal hell, legal peril. You know, somebody will pay some sort of a price for having killed Tupac. But I also think that the fans of Tupac have kind of come to grips with the idea that I'm just gonna have to love him and not think too much about how it all ended. Because if you're a fan of Tupac, I mean the music is timeless. It'll live forever. The work that he did, the influence he had, you can see all of his sons and daughters in hip hop today, right?

0 (23m 32s):
And the influence he's had on them. So that is what is gonna have to be the thing that carries them. Not anything that happens in court. And I think that's probably the way Tupac would probably feel about it as well. He was dubious about the American criminal justice system and its ability to, you know, resolve these sorts of things. So I think the music and his art are the things that we're just gonna have to take with this going forward. Come on.

1 (23m 54s):
That's just the way It's, things will never be the same. That's just the way its

2 (24m 6s):
Joel Anderson Slate also one of the hosts of the Slow Burn Podcast. Season three is the one you wanna listen to. If you wanna learn more about Biggie Smalls and Tupac Shakur. Haddi Mawajdeh produced our show today. He had help from SI Petros, Matthew Collette edited Laura Bullard fact-check, and David Herman mixed. The rest of the Today Explain team includes Victoria Chamberlain, Halima Shaw Miles, Bryan Shai, artsy, Amanda, Lou Ellen, John Aarons, Patrick Boyd, Rob Byers, and now Isabelle Angel two. Welcome, Isabelle. Our supervising producer is Amina Aldi.

2 (24m 46s):
Our executive producer is Miranda Kennedy. My co-host is Noel King, and we use music by Breakmaster Cylinder when we feel like it today. Explained is distributed by W N Y C. The show is part of Vox, which is totally free. Thanks in part to contributions from our listeners. Join us at Vox dot com slash give. We're off Monday for Indigenous People's Day, back on Tuesday with more today explained a quick favor before we go. We're working on a show about doctor and nurse shortages. Have you been having a hard time booking FaceTime with a doctor? Or is it even worse? Are there increasingly fewer and fewer doctors and healthcare workers in your city or town?

2 (25m 30s):
Give us a call and tell us about your experience. The number is 2 0 2 6 4 3 0 3 1 4. We are asking, because we might use your voice on our show. Again, the number is 2 0 2 6 4 3 0 3 1 4. Thank you people

7 (25m 48s):
To start making some changes. Let's change the way we eat. Let's change the way we live and let's change the way we treat each. You see, the old way wasn't working, so it's on us to do what we gotta do to survive. And still, I see no changes. Can a.