3 (1s):
In preparation for the u.s. Elections Facebook has taken a critical steps to secure their platforms and provide transparency. They've more than tripled their Safety and Security teams to 35,000 people implemented five step out of verification and launched a new voting information center. Learn more about how Facebook is preparing at f b.com about / elections. That's f b.com about / elections.

1 (54s):
It's been just about three months since the world watch the video footage of George Floyd dying at the hands of Minneapolis Police. In the weeks that followed police reform was top of mind we had protests we had pledges there was a Chaz and then a chop, but what do things look like now that there aren't as many protests or occupations. Now that people are thinking about the election or reopening schools or even the NBA or NHL playoffs on today's show. We're going to take a look at the struggle to hold the biggest Police Department in the country accountable. We're talking about the six billion dollars and nearly And officers of the NYPD Eric umansky has been writing about the NYPD for propublica more specifically.

1 (1m 38s):
He's been writing about how civilians can file complaints about officer misconduct and there were a lot of those complaints in the weeks of protests after George voids killing, but we started much earlier than that last

3 (1m 52s):
Halloween my wife Sarah and our then six year old daughter were walking home from a friend's house and All of a sudden they saw basically a few teenagers running and then bizarrely a unmarked police car going the wrong way up Court Street, which is a one way street. So literally zooming against traffic and then all of a sudden the car hit one of the

1 (2m 22s):
teens,

3 (2m 26s):
this is right literally in front of Sarah my wife and our daughter. Kid kind of rolled up onto the hood of the car rolled right off and slammed onto the

1 (2m 37s):
ground

3 (2m 39s):
and then amazingly enough got up ran away.

1 (2m 44s):
And then the

3 (2m 47s):
police who were there turn their attention to another group of kids who seem to have nothing to do with the kids who were running except for the fact that they were all

1 (2m 57s):
black.

3 (3m 1s):
Line them up against the wall of our local movie theater actually and began to arrest a few of them at this point, right? Keep in mind. It was also our six-year-old daughter who was dressed as a vampire and completely freaked out so they came home and I was sort of just chilling at home and Sarah. My wife said you should go up there and see what's going on. And so I did and when I got there Are they were three kids who had already been put in a police van? And it was clear some family members were there of kids who had been stopped and actually put against the wall not arrested who were upset and one of those mothers tried to get the one of the kids who was arrested to share his parents phone number so that she can say like so I can tell your parents that you've been arrested and One of the cops plainclothes cops started getting in her face and yelling at her and telling her to back the fuck off.

3 (4m 8s):
I'm going to remember it very

1 (4m 10s):
distinctly. At this point. Do you have any idea what these kids might have done? Does anyone have any idea what these kids who have been arrested might have done? No at

3 (4m 24s):
that point. It was completely unclear and the truth is I then didn't really know what to do. I had given my phone number to one of the kids who had been stopped but not arrested and just sort of like, I don't know. That's the best practice I suppose if you're a real. order which like I'm not I'm really an editor and I went home and about 15 minutes later that kid, actually FaceTime me and was like, you should come to the local precinct, which is literally on my street two blocks away because my friends are arrested the parents aren't being allowed to see their kids and you should just come so I was like, okay so I came and I ended up hanging out with the parents outside the precinct for three-plus hours where indeed there were were not allowed to see their kids.

3 (5m 15s):
They actually hadn't been contacted by the NYPD. It was friends and family who had told them their kids had been arrested and you know, I don't know what the rules are about any of this stuff. Are you allowed to drive the wrong way down a street. Are you allowed to hold kids for hours without calling their parents, but you forgot are you allowed to

1 (5m 36s):
run over a kid and then not do anything

3 (5m 38s):
about are you allowed to run over a kid and not doing anything about it? Yeah. And like the whole thing was just bizarre and you have to keep in mind. I mean these parents are sitting there fretting all night, you know one kept saying, you know, my kid is school the next day. What am I supposed to do, you know is started being like midnight and then past midnight and another mom there actually was kept saying she was upset with herself. She kept saying I knew I shouldn't let my boy go out on Halloween a bunch of black boys walking around too. Together that's a bad idea. I shouldn't have let him do it and he just kept begging me like, you know, and basically, you know, the cops weren't really paying them any attention the parents they didn't sort of come out and really sort of talk to him and explain the situation the most helpful cop in there was one helpful cop was basically on a smoke break and was like, how are you guys doing what's going on and you know went inside of his own volition to find out what was Happening and then the kids were allowed to leave.

3 (6m 49s):
Well past midnight at about 1:00 a.m. There were given no paperwork. There was nothing they weren't charged with anything. They weren't told they were being charged with anything and that was just sort of like, you know, we probably have the wrong people you can go home and that's

1 (7m 5s):
it. These kids were arrested held in jail for a while and then let go never really finding out what they were arrested for So eventually in the kids

3 (7m 18s):
had been asked about it. There was a robbery in a nearby park and kid had his cell phone stolen and apparently had kind of been beaten up or kicked in the process and you know, the police had said that these kids quote-unquote fit the description. You know again, these kids didn't actually look anything like the kids who were running if those kids said anything to do with it. I've no idea and you know, one officer assertive senior officer came out it was basically acknowledged that they didn't have the right kids.

3 (8m 0s):
He was like, look, I'm sorry everybody. I know that this is a hassle. We're just waiting for headquarters to soar process the paperwork and we're letting you guys go Is clear he was like are bad right without formally apologizing. So that's the end of that night and I went home and I was like what happens now is somebody responsible for checking out whether this was appropriate. Is there some check on this system and on a very basic level of what the hell happened. So I did a very basic thing which I just called the NYPD and I said, You know, this is what I saw.

3 (8m 44s):
This is what my family saw. Can you help me understand what the deal is and the nypd's spokesman by the way is a former New York Times police reporter guy named Al Baker who's very nice and said yeah, let me check it out. I said great and he came back to me and said look, you know I checked it out. I don't know what your wife. Saw but a police car did not hit a kid.

1 (9m 20s):
I said well my wife's thought and he said I understand

3 (9m 23s):
I am telling you that the people involved, you know, say it didn't happen and you know memory is a difficult complicated thing and I went back to my wife and I said, please say this. Didn't happen and she said I am a hundred percent sure. It happened right in front of us happened. And I thought like well, I'm gonna look like an asshole here, but nevertheless I'm gonna go canvas the neighborhood and stores nearby and restaurants nearby to see if you can find other Witnesses. And so that's what I did. I just walked around the neighborhood and eventually I walked into a restaurant and I said, hey, I'm looking to see if you guys were open and if anybody saw this weird thing on I mean and the guy said to me you mean where the cop car ran into a kid

1 (10m 18s):
that said. Yeah, that's

3 (10m 21s):
um, and that was the first of three other people I spoke to and eventually I went back to the police and I said look, I know how four people including my wife who saw they all said they saw exactly the same thing a police car going. Going the wrong way down a one-way Street and hit kid. So I want your on the record response to that. They said okay and sent me a response that said an unknown male who had fled the scene ran across the hood of a stationary

1 (11m 0s):
police car.

3 (11m 3s):
Let me just sort of translate that which is to say the car didn't hit the kid the kid hit the car. And I said to them I'm going to be really clear I have for people who saw this including my wife and I'm going to include your response. I'm going to put it right against the fact that for individual people saw this 5, by the way, if you include my six-year-old daughter and they said yeah go for it. And I was kind of dumbfounded that is brazen and to me it sort of raise the More fundamental thing of like if you sort of feel like you can do that, if you have that sense of kind of impunity where you can just say don't believe all four or five of Your Lying Eyes.

3 (11m 55s):
You should believe what we're just telling you without by the way any evidence didn't provide any evidence. They provided a statement. Well, that's really troubling and sort of suggests the kind of mindset. Of impunity and I did a tweet Thread about it. And when I did the tweets read this agency, I hadn't really heard much about called the Civilian Complaint review board that does exactly what it says reviews civilians complaints of police abuse said thanks for this were investigating and quite frankly. I sort of patted myself on the back and felt like, you know impact that's what investigative Almost are supposed to do and thank you very much everybody and have a good night.

3 (12m 44s):
And then I actually met with somebody from the sea CRP and I was like, yeah, so tell me how you guys work and he was like so listen, we are completely independent. We do our own investigations. We come to our own

1 (12m 59s):
conclusions. And then will ye then the

3 (13m 2s):
police commissioner has complete and utter discretion to just ignore overturn everything we find nothing what say that last part again. n

1 (13m 16s):
After the break the CC Arby's decades long battle to hold the NYPD to account.

3 (13m 40s):
Facebook is continuing to take critical steps to better secure their platforms including more than tripling Safety and Security teams to 35,000 people and partnering with security researchers other tech companies and law enforcement. What's next Facebook supports updating internet regulations to address today's challenges and hold companies, including Facebook accountable for combating foreign election interference protecting people's privacy and enabling safe and easy data portability. Between platforms learn more at about dot f b.com regulation.

1 (14m 21s):
Eric before we get to what happened to this kid who got hit by the unmarked police car tell me about the history of this Civilian Complaint review board the

3 (14m 29s):
ccrb. So about 70 years ago Coalition of community activists and Community organizations, basically got together and said we're fucking sick of the police abusing black and brown residents and we need to create a Mechanism for accountability here and the city can almost like her for a little bit and a few years later though did create this thing called the Civilian Complaint review board that and I think this is quite telling was consisted of a hundred percent top NYPD officials with no actual civilians on it what the civilian part was.

3 (15m 21s):
Yes, yes, sir, civilians who are making the complaints but the board isn't actually civilians and that's Central tension of yes, it's civilians. But the NYPD really kind of holds the string behind the scenes has been a dynamic now throughout its whole life in you know, ways that is evolved but that you can very much see the original DNA and what the other thing you can see is That it has long been a subject of intense scrutiny and pressure from not only the police but police unions in particular when in the 1960s mayor Lindsay moved to actually make it a civilian board the Union's forced him to actually roll it back and you know, some of what they said was just explicitly racist, you know, you had this one union leaders at I'm sick and tired.

3 (16m 21s):
heard of minorities constantly

1 (16m 23s):
griping hmm who won that

3 (16m 25s):
fight the Union's the unions and then you know about 25 years later mayor Dinkins David Dinkins, who was the first black mayor of New York City actually moved to make it again a civilian board because it was literally a unit of the police department and at that point the Union's organized off-duty officers who I'm not even sure basically is the right word who literally rioted thousands of cops stormed through the barricades and ran on top of cars as they charged the stairs of City Hall. There are message whirring loud and clear and held up all sorts of signs that were very clearly racist like one said fire the washroom attendant referring to Dinkins.

3 (17m 21s):
And that kind of outburst and the riot which by the way, one of the speaker's edit was somebody whose name will ring a bell Rudy Giuliani. The mayor's archrival Rudy Giuliani. Yeah the morale but those changes actually held it became a independent entity which is to say it no longer was part of the police department and it got more Authority under the law, but the sort of culture in the politics of it have still stymied it over the

1 (18m 8s):
years. Okay. So the Civilian Complaint review board, the ccrb is sort of a joke in it since Be in stages, but it's mandated by law. And after these hard-fought battles. It's more

3 (18m 20s):
autonomous. It actually has

1 (18m 22s):
civilians on it, but it's still struggles against the very powerful NYPD and surely it's very powerful Union. How is it operated in the past few months when we've seen, you know, NYPD officers ramming protesters with their vehicles or shoving a young woman to the ground or pepper spraying people who aren't even resisting

3 (18m 42s):
right? So so you have a A record number of abuse complaints that are coming in to the ccrb. They got hundreds from just the protest and it now has about 200 staffers and they're trying to go through the stuff. But what they're facing is massive, you can come up with a variety of words for it one would be obstruction by the end. ipd which means in practice, you know, one of the things that we've all seen is really critical is video footage for example and officers in New York City are now required to wear body cam footage, but increasingly the NYPD is not sharing it at all when they do share it there redacting footage that for whatever reasons they deem appropriate and they're being an increasingly long time with it and all of that creates an enormous difficulties for civilian investigators to actually come to conclusions on cases.

3 (19m 59s):
And so the system is completely gunked up now, you know the way I've described it as like a big river coming in and at the end of the day there's this tap and you turn it on and a drop comes out every once in a

1 (20m 12s):
while. So what's the likelihood that a record number of complaints that came out of the protests will be addressed. What's the track record?

3 (20m 24s):
So I looked at that question and just to give you a sense. I looked at 3000 allegations complaints about use of force in 2018 look for 2018 because it allows some time to go through the system. So what happened to those three thousand complaints of use of force? Course, they turned into 73 quote unquote substantiation, which is to say the ccrb was able to figure out and conclude that mistreatment occurred and the worst that happened to any officer was nine officers who faced get ready for it lost a vacation

1 (21m 9s):
days. So 3000 accusations allegations. 73 substantiated nine officers lose

3 (21m 19s):
vacation days. Yep, and that's the most significant punishment. That's the nine officers the face the most significant punishment. Yep. That's how it currently works.

1 (21m 30s):
So the One-Shot civilians have of holding the police department that they pay for to account is virtually toothless. Is that what you're saying?

3 (21m 44s):
Yeah. That's basically what I'm saying. I mean, you know, there are these other mechanisms that exist in you know on paper to you could sue the NYPD that is very difficult to do and by the way if you happen to get some money, it's the city that's paying it out not the officers not feeling the officers punished and you know, then every seven blue moons. There is some criminal charges that is extraordinarily rare

1 (22m 13s):
like when someone gets Killed by cops, maybe I mean

3 (22m 18s):
frankly underline on maybe

1 (22m 20s):
but what about this moment? I mean if the ccrb can't hold the NYPD to account when it seems like the whole country is not at least the city is demanding it. Whoo Mayor de Blasio, right? Is he gonna do something about this about police brutality about unchecked use of force?

3 (22m 39s):
Yeah. A number of people said to me look this is on the mayor at the end of the day and you see this Dynamic I think in a lot of cities which is, you know, the United States there is a obviously a long history and culture of Civilian control over the Armed Forces over the military and we don't really even think about of course the police are under civilian control. I mean they work for you know local authorities, but did you look at actually how it really works? You're like no they don't they don't really truly answer to the mayor for whatever reason Mayors have been incredibly reticent to enforce that civilian oversight.

3 (23m 31s):
And you know, I can't get into mayor's mines. I know that unions are very powerful. I know that there's concerns and you've seen it in lots of places that you know, the police essentially will step back from doing their jobs and

1 (23m 44s):
then you're

3 (23m 45s):
screwed and you know, there are all sorts of fears about how police Couture with you man at the end of the day many many mayors have said like I'm not going

1 (23m 57s):
there. Is it a done deal, you know, is there no going back from the NYPD dictating what the ccrb gets to investigate and doesn't get to investigate. Is there no going back from mayor's living in fear that their police departments might On them if they try to impose reforms now, I don't think it's a

3 (24m 18s):
done deal at all. I mean if you if you look at for example, the CCR bees history, one of the interesting things here is that when civilian officials do stand up and say, you know in Arabic class like enough, right? They actually often do get results. So just the other week. the ccrb said enough officers need to come to interviews and we're going to make us think about this and the NYPD back down 30 years ago when mayor Dinkins said I am going to make this an actual civilian board and not a part of the police department the police unions fought really hard and then what happened is One right.

3 (25m 17s):
So I don't think it's at all a fate of complete at all and people should not presume. In fact that the history of this is it's sort of ever thus in fact if you think about it in the long Arc, it's been getting more authority over the years, but it's just that when you look at it, they're still so far to

1 (25m 40s):
go. Yeah. What came of the complaint that was filed over the kid who got hit by the car that your wife wasn't his last Halloween,

3 (25m 53s):
right? So this is going to be a very not surprising that complaint is still open and is you know, like 3,000 or so other complaints is in the we're currently investigating

1 (26m 12s):
file and the nypd's Line is that never happened

3 (26m 18s):
the NYPD to be totally honest just stop responding to my emails about

1 (26m 23s):
it. Eric dumanskiy is an editor of propublica. You can find his reporting on the NYPD at propublica dot-org. It's worth noting that there has been at least one significant reform to policing in New York since the widespread protests earlier this summer the state repeal the statute known as Sta, that prohibited the release of reports on officer misconduct that previously got in the way of investigating complaints as a result of that repeal something like 320,000 previously sealed complaints against the NYPD were released online today.

1 (27m 16s):
That's 320 something thousand complaints that were filed with the Civilian Complaint review board the ccrb that were closed after. An investigation and now reopened for the world to see I'm Shawn Rama's firm. This is today explained.

3 (28m 3s):
In preparation for the u.s. Elections Facebook has taken a critical steps to secure their platforms and provide transparency. They've more than tripled their Safety and Security teams to 35,000 people implemented five step out of verification and launched a new voting information center. Learn more about how Facebook is preparing at f b.com about / elections. That's f b.com about / elections. Yes.