0 (1s):
In the summer of 2022, inflation in the US hit 9.1%. And. we all freaked out. Okay, now consider this in Argentina. Today, inflation is 143%. Fortunately for the Argentines, there are about to elect a new president. Unfortunately, for the Argentines, they're choosing between these two. Sergio Masa, the current economy minister, minister of 143%, inflation and Javier millet, rockstar libertarian economist with a lust for life. So

2 (35s):
He wears a lot of like leather jackets and he screams and jumps around a lot on stage.

0 (45s):
Coming up. On today explained why did Argentinians vote these two men into a runoff and why inflation is always and everywhere. The ultimate election issue

Atlassian (1m 1s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian. Atlassian Software like Jira, confluence, and Trello help power global collaboration for all teams so they can accomplish everything that's impossible alone, because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. No matter if you're a team of two, 200 or 2 million, Atlassian software keeps everyone connected and moving together as one towards shared company goals. Learn how to unleash the potential of your team@atlassian.com. That's A-T-L-A-S-S-I-A n.com. Atlassian,

Mint Mobile (1m 40s):
Ryan Reynolds here from Midt Mobile. Not only have I been the owner of Midt Mobile for the last few years, I've also been a customer. I don't know If, you knew this, but anyone can get the same premium wireless for $15 a month plan that I've been enjoying. It's not just for celebrities. So do like I did and have one of your assistant's, assistants switch you to Mint Mobile today. I'm told it's super easy to do at mint mobile.com/switch. New activation and upfront payment for three month plan required taxes and fees, extra additional restrictions, apply se mint mobile.com for full terms.

6 (2m 12s):
This is today explained.

0 (2m 16s):
I'm Noel King with Lankes. She's the Latin America correspondent for The Economist, and she says this election is about the economy, and in particular about the inflation, which affects every aspect of life in Argentina. It's

2 (2m 30s):
Very hard to imagine what it's like. You basically go into the shops and every day the prices have changed. So for example, If, you go into a restaurant, nobody has like a fixed menu.

7 (2m 44s):
It's hard. Whatever one thing costs today, tomorrow costs a little more. We're always racing against the clock.

2 (2m 51s):
Then there's a lot of very poor people who don't have access to black market dollars, which is how kind of Argentine people with means get by and save.

8 (3m 2s):
What do you do to survive inflation in Argentina?

9 (3m 5s):
Well, I do what every Argentinian guy does. I buy dollars.

2 (3m 9s):
And for those poor people who don't have access to black market dollars, they've had to resort to quite extreme measures to get by

10 (3m 16s):
Chaos, playing out in the streets of Argentina

11 (3m 20s):
As business owners fend off looters with firearms, while frustrations mount over astronomical inflation rates,

2 (3m 26s):
Bartering has come back, which is, you know, you go to a market and you might have diapers and you exchange those for cans of food with somebody instead of using money,

0 (3m 37s):
People

2 (3m 37s):
Have no

13 (3m 38s):
Money left, but we need to take something home. So there's no choice but to barter,

0 (3m 42s):
Which is not how we think of developed countries typically.

2 (3m 46s):
No, not at all. However, I think what happens to a lot of people when they come from outside and visit Argentina, they're quite surprised because it actually seems fairly functional on the surface. And I think that there's something particularly dangerous and seductive about Argentina's decline because Argentina has been in decline for a hundred years. And so a lot of people have, you know, developed mechanisms to deal with extremely high inflation. There are a lot of people who know how to beat the system, basically, which makes it also very difficult to solve the problem.

0 (4m 21s):
Hmm. Is inflation Argentina's only economic problem? It's a big problem. Is that basically all that's going on?

2 (4m 28s):
No. So inflation is a symptom of a very, very rotten pattern of economic policymaking over a long period of time.

14 (4m 40s):
Argentina,

2 (4m 41s):
There's very high inflation, but there are also 15 different exchange rates in the country, which is crazy. So you can pay completely different things for the same product, depending on what exchange rate you're using. It's very difficult to access some of those exchange rates. There's also a kind of a dual monetary system in some ways because most Argentines don't trust the peso, so they save in dollars, but it's very difficult to access dollars legally. So there's a gigantic black market for dollars. Actually, Argentines are thought to hold more dollars outside of the US and possibly Russia than any other country in the world. So there's all sorts of issues. The banks have very little money.

2 (5m 21s):
Everybody has dollars out of the system under the mattress in foreign bank accounts, there's price controls. So the prices of many products are frozen, and basically the country consistently overspends. So it spends a gigantic amount of GDP on subsidies, which it cannot afford. And on things like public health care and pensions and public wages. So it's very, very tricky. There are many different things going on, and there's also really entrenched interest groups. So that kind of thing creates really, really deep incentives for corruption. So there's all sorts of problems going on.

0 (6m 3s):
Yeah. You're describing something that sounds fairly catastrophic. What has the current government, the people currently in power, what have they done to try to fix this?

2 (6m 13s):
Oh, it hasn't really made deep efforts to fix this at all. So the economy minister said, yo Massa has been in power since last August, and he's basically made a lot of short-term fixes. So I'll give you an example. Fuel prices have been going up recently in Argentina because of all sorts of D you know, structural problems. And instead of addressing those problems, he said, okay, we're going to ban fuel exports If, you don't lower prices. So it's these kinds of short term patches that don't address the kind of structural issues underneath, or I'll give you another example.

2 (6m 54s):
Argentina spends more money than it brings in in revenue. And so the solution to that has often been to force the central bank to print a lot of money, which just worsens inflation. And that has happened to an excessive amount in the past few years. Before that the previous government borrowed a lot of money from abroad. The kind of solutions that politicians in Argentina reach for are often actually damaging in the long term. They might be short term solutions, but they produce problems that need to be addressed further down the line.

0 (7m 26s):
Okay. Somewhat shockingly, this economic minister, Sergio Massa is the same man who won the majority of the votes Yeah. In the Argentine election on October 22nd. How is this possible, ma'am?

2 (7m 40s):
Oh my gosh. Okay. So I think in any other country in the world, an economy minister presiding over this level of inflation and this kind of economic disaster would not have any chance at being elected president. But in Argentina, you have to understand the movement behind this man, sio Massa, and that movement is called Peronism. It's not really a party, it's more like a brand. Basically, it was founded in the 1940s with a general called Juan Domingo Peron, and it kind of blends nationalism, strong labor rights, social justice, economic and political sovereignty and corporatism, which is kind of like complicated to explain, but it's this idea that the state can intervene a lot managing interest groups in society.

2 (8m 29s):
What has happened over the past few Decades since the 1940s is that Peronism has won most elections in which Peronist figures have been allowed to run. It's a hugely organized movement that has support all over the country, and that means that even if the economy does badly, they have this gigantic network across the country that they can mobilize. So that's partly why sexual Massa was able to win. He has the support of certain big business groups. He has the support of the trade unions. There is

15 (8m 58s):
Only one man who can lead any workers regime,

2 (9m 2s):
And importantly, the football associations in the country. Remember that an Argentina football is a religion.

0 (9m 8s):
Sure do.

16 (9m 10s):
Argentina champions of the world.

2 (9m 13s):
So I think If, you wanna understand why Gio Masa actually has a chance at becoming president. You have to look beyond the man. This is really about the movement behind him.

0 (9m 22s):
Yeah, he's an establishment figure. As you've described him. Does he have personal characteristics that are appealing to the public? Is is it pure establishment with Masa, or is there you're chuckling or, or does the guy have some charisma, some charm, some Perone in the Peronism.

2 (9m 38s):
I mean, Massa has about as much as charisma as a wooden plank

17 (9m 45s):
Conviction.

2 (9m 51s):
Argentines love to give their political leaders nicknames. S nickname is the Pancake.

19 (9m 57s):
Of course it says pancakes on the outside, but there's a lot more on the inside.

2 (10m 3s):
Why? Because he's been with anyone who's in power. He doesn't really have an ideology. He kind of is very fluid and an opportunist. He has been with the hard left, he has been with the center, right? He promised to put the ex-president in jail. If he was elected president, then he lost, and now he works with that ex-president again, you know, flipping ideologies like a pancake. That's why he's called the pancake. So again, he doesn't have a lot of personal charisma. He has the movement behind him, and that's what matters.

0 (10m 32s):
Alright, I hear your skepticism. I wanna try one more thing for Masa. Does he have proposals? He's been an economy minister, it's a high ranking position. Does he have specific proposals to fix the economy if he ascends to the presidency?

2 (10m 46s):
He has not presented a comprehensive economic plan. So I think what he's banking on is a continuation of this policy of band-aids.

20 (10m 56s):
On Monday, Argentina's economic minister, presidential contender Sergio Masa, will meet with the IMF in the United States to discuss refinancing disbursements amid the paces collapse.

2 (11m 6s):
So I'll give you another example. In the runup to the first round of the election, he abolished income taxes for 99% of registered workers in the country. They've also just now in the runup to the second round of the presidential election, they've also expanded bonuses for pensioners and unemployed workers. You can't do that in an economy with such high inflation that's going to create problems in the coming months. I think instead, he's banking on Governability because very few non-par presidents have been able to finish their terms in Argentina. What usually happens, like I said, Peronism has the support of the street

21 (11m 45s):
In Argentina. The street is a really important political tool. These are low income earners and welfare recipients who are an important voting block for the the current government.

2 (11m 54s):
You can, as a parent, as leader, call people to the street, and those protests can force governments to collapse. So the hope, I think, for Massa is that he's able to keep a lid on violence and social explosion in the country, and he's able to continue this kind of policy of small short-term adjustments that prevent things from completely blowing up, but not really addressing the deeper problems of Argentina.

22 (12m 26s):
Anna,

0 (12m 27s):
Hold on with us because Coming. up next, we're gonna talk about Javier Milley

1 (12m 44s):
Fox Creative.

Eli Lilly and Company (12m 46s):
This is advertiser content from Eli Lilly and Company. Dr. Brandy Matthews is a neurologist in Alzheimer's disease expert at Lilly, who thinks the first step to tackling Alzheimer's is knowing what it is and what it isn't. Alzheimer's disease. At the early stages, the signs and symptoms may be ignored. I, I think in part, due to the association of the Disease with advancing age and a lack of understanding that there's an ongoing disease process, not part of normal aging. So what might be the difference between forgetting an appointment and forgetting the name of your hometown amyloid plaque? An amyloid plaque's a clump of misfolded protein that abnormally accumulates inside of the brain and then triggers a cascade of other events. This eventually leads to disrupted communication between the brain cells. Tests are available to check for the abnormally folded sticky proteins in the brain that are associated with Alzheimer's disease, using brain PET scans, cerebral spinal fluid tests, and even more recently with some specialized blood tests. Diagnosis that's timely in a patient's disease course may also have an impact on the progression of the disease. If the intervention happens early, empower yourself with knowledge. If you're noticing memory and thinking issues, go to more than normal aging.com to learn more about what you can do.

Atlassian (14m 24s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian. Atlassian Software like Jira, confluence, and Trello help power the collaboration for teams to accomplish what would otherwise be impossible alone, because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. That's why millions of teams around the world, including 75% of the Fortune 500 trust Atlassian software for everything from space exploration and green energy to delivering pizzas and podcasts, whether you're a team of two, 200 or 2 million, or whether your team is around the corner or around another continent altogether, Atlassian software is built to help keep you all on the same page from start to finish. That way every one of your teams, from engineering and IT to marketing, hr, and legal can stay connected and moving together as one towards shared company-wide goals, learn how to unleash the potential of your team@atlassian.com. That's A-T-L-A-S-S-I-A n.com. Atlassian,

1 (15m 26s):
Don't cry for me, arg. The truth is

23 (15m 33s):
Explained. On today explained

0 (15m 36s):
Lankes, Latin American correspondent for leading magazine, The Economist, who is Javier mle.

2 (15m 42s):
So Javier Mier calls himself an our narco capitalist. That's the strand of libertarianism developed by an American libertarian called Murray Rothbart.

24 (15m 52s):
Libertarianism itself, of course, is international. It's transnational, it's cosmopolite,

2 (15m 58s):
And it sees the state as a criminal organization because the state finances itself through taxes, which people usually pay involuntarily. So this is somebody who's a complete outsider. He was an economist, and before that he was an academic. So he was never in politics. And then he kind of burst on the scene as an Economist. In the last, you know, five to six years in Argentina, he was an increasingly invited to TV shows on the radio to talk about Argentina's economic problems, because he had these slightly wacky ideas in a country used to a big state. He was saying that the state was the enemy,

23 (16m 35s):
And since they can't beat our ideas peacefully, they used the repressive apparatus of the state to try and destroy us.

2 (16m 41s):
So it was something new. It was something quite radical. And he was also invited to talk on, you know, TV shows and the radio, because he's quite an eccentric character. So he has wild hair and huge sideburns, and he wears leather jackets, and he kind of, he's very histrionic. He often screams, he uses a lot of swear words to talk about his enemies.

23 (17m 4s):
They are desperate. They are losing the cultural battle. The shitty lefties are cornered for the first time. The shitty lefties are cornered.

2 (17m 12s):
So he's a really kind of oddball. He has, you know, he's called himself a tantric sex coach.

23 (17m 20s):
Tantric sex is what sexual yoga would be.

2 (17m 23s):
He says his former girlfriends call him the naughty cow, brown

1 (17m 26s):
Chicken brown cow.

2 (17m 27s):
He does things like, he says he's gonna blow up the Central bank. And so he does things on tv like Breaking Pinatas shaped like a central bank with clubs. He gained fame for that, for using quite aggressive rhetoric and doing strange things. You

0 (17m 46s):
Know, if I, based on everything you've told me about the past century in Argentina, if I were an Argentinian voter, I might be compelled by a man who says, we're gonna do things differently because the way we're doing things hasn't worked.

2 (18m 2s):
Totally. I completely agree. I think there's really a demand for change in Argentina, and Ja is seen as the most radical option offering change.

8 (18m 12s):
Oriana and Samir were raised by parents loyal to Peronism, but this year the couple says they plan to vote for a different kind of politician. J

2 (18m 20s):
He's also, I think, become very popular because he attacks politicians in Argentina. He says they're all part of a cast that's working together to steal from hardworking Argentines, you know, and this rhetoric that there's corrupt politicians that are bringing hardworking Argentines down, really strikes a chord with a lot of people. Understandably.

0 (18m 41s):
You have interviewed Melee. What are those interviews like? Is he coherent? Does he have good ideas? What do you hear?

2 (18m 49s):
I spent three hours with Javier Mele a few months ago, and it was a strange experience. He was not as aggressive as he is on television, but I don't think his ideas were terribly coherent. I actually think he's been slightly surprised by how far he's come himself. He's very comfortable talking about his libertarian ideas and theory and philosophy, but when talking about lots of other things, he's not very comfortable. And he knows very, very little about international trade, about international politics. He'll say things in our interview that were quite conspiratorial. He suggested that Biden hadn't fairly won the election.

0 (19m 30s):
Sounds like President Trump.

2 (19m 32s):
Well, yes.

25 (19m 33s):
For example, how do they steal ballots? How come kids are finding our ballots hidden in their schools?

0 (19m 38s):
One of the more interesting things that I've read about me, Lei, is first that he cloned one of his dogs and he then named one of the clones. There's more than one after the famed libertarian economist, Milton Friedman, friend of the show, Milton Friedman. My name

26 (19m 54s):
Is Milton Friedman.

2 (19m 57s):
What

0 (19m 58s):
Are his proposals? What are his specific proposals? Aside from blowing up the Central Bank, which I guess is always an option, how's he gonna fix the economy?

2 (20m 7s):
He actually cloned his dog Conan into five clone puppies in a company in the us. And all puppies are named after economists, kind of free market economists. So many of his economic ideas aren't terribly radical. He wants to slash public spending. Public spending in Argentina as a share of GDP has almost doubled in the last 20 years. He wants to cut it by around 15% of GDP. He wants to slash the number of taxes. There is a gigantic amount of taxes in Argentina, and very few of them actually collect a lot of revenue. So he wants to kind of simplify the tax system and lower the tax burden overall.

2 (20m 48s):
And he also wants to privatize many of Argentina's inefficient state owned companies. He wants to reach zero primary deficit in the first year of government. Now, his big economic proposal is much more controversial. He wants to dollarize the economy. That would mean basically swapping out all the pestles in Argentina. Pestles are the local currency and swapping them for the US dollar. And that's controversial for a number of reasons. The central bank does not have enough dollars in its vaults to be able to do that. So you need to get those dollars from somewhere. And a lot of economists think that it'll be very hard to dollarize and not necessarily good for Argentina. But as I mentioned to you, most Argentines already have a habit of saving in dollars, and you do big purchases in the country in dollars.

2 (21m 35s):
Like when you buy a house, you tend to do that in dollars. So for a lot of people, there is also some appeal in Dollarization. They're like, well, who trusts the peso? We, we, we, we save in dollars. Anyways. Then he has some social proposals that he's in the recent weeks after the first round of the presidential election, significantly moderated because they were not terribly popular. He wanted to liberalize gun laws to make it easier for people to buy guns. He also wants to ban abortion, which was legalized in Argentina just a few years ago. And it's one of the few countries in Latin America where it's legal.

0 (22m 7s):
Hmm. That's not a very libertarian stance there is it?

2 (22m 10s):
No. So it's interesting. I asked him that in our interview and he said that within libertarianism, there's no kind of consensus on abortion. So there's people who believe that the state should not tell you what to do with your body, and so that you should be able to abort If. you want to. And then there's others like melee who believe that you can't actually be free if you're not allowed to be born. And so abortion should be banned.

23 (22m 30s):
One of the fundamental ideas is to defend the right to life. That is philosophically I am in favor of respecting the right to life.

2 (22m 37s):
And then he had also had this proposal, which was to legalize a human organ market, which just like nobody, nobody was calling for that in Argentina. So he, he's kind of in the past few weeks, stopped talking about those things or talked less about those things and is focusing more on corruption in this government and Argentina's economic problems.

0 (23m 2s):
Who is Millet's constituency? Who likes him, who's out in the streets with the sign saying, melee

2 (23m 9s):
Young men? It's like my summary. Yeah, really, I, on election day, I, I interviewed dozens and dozens and dozens of people, and nine times out of 10 when I interviewed a young man, yeah, I could be sure that they were melee voters and they were,

0 (23m 26s):
Why is that?

2 (23m 27s):
Nilay became very popular on social media for attacking other politicians using often extremely aggressive language. One 16 year old that I interviewed on election day told me that what he liked most about Melee was that he spoke, you know, totally openly that he was very frank. And he said in his own words, I like it when he calls other people leftist pieces of shit. I think all of that is quite appealing to an electorate that is kind of very used to stuffy old establishment politicians that haven't really changed the system.

0 (23m 58s):
Can he turn any of these libertarian and perhaps not so libertarian ideas, if we're talking about abortion, can he turn any of these ideas into policies if he wins the election?

2 (24m 10s):
So if he wins, I think it would be very difficult for Jermel to govern. He doesn't have a network of support across the country like the paras do. He doesn't have governors in every province of Buenos Aires supporting him. He's not going to have a whole lot of legislators or senators. So he's going to have to find alliances to get anything done in Congress. If support for him starts to drop off, I don't think he'll be able to get almost anything done because his party structure is almost non-existent.

0 (24m 37s):
We've got a tight race. What are the possibilities for Argentina's future here?

2 (24m 44s):
Noel? Honestly, I'm quite pessimistic. On the one hand, the kind of case for optimism, the kind of bullish case for Argentina, is that what the world is going to need in the next few years? Argentina has in ample amount. So for example, Argentina has one of the world's greatest reserves of lithium that's gonna be needed increasingly in the green transition. Argentina also has a gigantic amount of oil and natural gas. And right now with increased geopolitical tensions in the rest of the world, you know, Europe and the US might be interested in Argentina as a supplier of oil and gas because the, you know, Russia is kind of off the map and the Middle East is in turmoil and also with increasing tensions between the US and China.

2 (25m 29s):
Argentina and Latin America in general become interested because they're fairly neutral and also such gigantic producer of foodstuffs and the world is going to need a stable supply of that in the coming years. And Ukraine was a big producer of foodstuffs and that's been significantly disrupted. So that's kind of the bullish case, But that is stuff that's happening outside of Argentina. Within Argentina, there's not such a strong case for optimism because fundamentally what Argentina needs is to find the political consensus needed to pass some basic economic reforms and maintain them for a long period of time. Because saving Argentina one government can't do that.

2 (26m 11s):
It's going to take many governments and consistently good policy. And in order to have consistently good policy that is respected over time, you need political consensus. And I don't see that political consensus being forged in today's Argentina. And I also don't see much appetite for the deep structural reforms that will be needed in order to change the country's economy and put it on a path of sustainable growth.

0 (26m 43s):
It was Lankes of The Economist. Today's show was produced by John Ehrens, who dislikes musical theater as much as editor Matt Collette dislikes Pandas. David Herman is our engineer, Laura Bullard, our fact checker. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.