1 (12s):
This moment this movement black lives matter has achieved its changing so many elements of American Life the mascots the police The Monuments, but it's also changing our language and some of those

3 (24s):
changes are a lot more

1 (26s):
complicated and even confusing than say no more. More Confederate flags at NASCAR. Today we're going to dig into how language is evolving right now and try and figure out how permanent some of these changes might be. I'm talking about capitalizing the be and black or the acronym by POC that you might be seeing a lot more lately. I'm talking about

4 (49s):
Karen. It's easy to pronounce five letters to talk about what's

1 (53s):
going on with Karen. We found a

4 (55s):
can't my name is Karen

1 (57s):
Atia. She's an opinion writer at the Washington Post.

4 (1m 0s):
My mom has spoken about how she knew exactly what she was doing when she named me Karen. She was just like I wanted you to have an easier life with the sort of privilege of being a Karen

1 (1m 12s):
up until recently being named. Karen had been a gift. I'm

4 (1m 17s):
black. My parents are immigrants actually from Ghana and the part that was sort of amusing to me about all this was like my parents chose not to give us like quote-unquote like gun and names as Nicknames foreign sounding names like it makes me past it gives me a certain level of privilege that typically or African American names or quote unquote, whatever you call it, you know non-white sounding names whatever that means. It's allowed me to move through spaces

1 (1m 46s):
that is of course up until a few months ago. When the Amy Cooper video was seen by basically the entire country and everyone discovered. Karen is more than just another two syllable five letter name, that's easy to pronounce. I

4 (2m 2s):
think for the most part like at least the original definition was you

3 (2m 5s):
know, it's usually a woman of a certain

4 (2m 7s):
age who is not afraid to use her privilege and usually against a person of color for

3 (2m 13s):
a this woman don't want to let a little girl sell some water. She called police on an eight year old little girl. You got all you want the whole world don't see you boo. Yeah and illegally selling water without a permit on my property not your property

4 (2m 28s):
and the worst sort of behavior, of course is using that privilege that racialized and that gender-specific privilege to victimize other people of color and black people

3 (2m 43s):
why you asking because it's private property. Are you defacing private property? You're free to express your feelings to me. At first. We sort of laughed about all these

4 (2m 56s):
things. And now as a black Karen I Anytime I see Karen trending I brace myself because I think oh my God, there's going to be another video of like a white women like terrorizing a black person.

3 (3m 12s):
It's illegal to have a charcoal grill in the park here. No, it's not actually just that the map it says this is a designated barbecue area. No it no it for a charcoal grill. No charcoal grills are allowed to want to see it. Hurry up to me

4 (3m 24s):
like camera such a boring name. I didn't really think there was anything special about it. I wanted my name to be changed to my I'll name

3 (3m 30s):
Nicole actually, but my parents wouldn't let me I must have known something back then.

1 (3m 39s):
There's been a real backlash to the usage of Karen to characterize white middle-aged women. Some people say it's misogynistic. Some people have gone as far as to say. It's like the n-word but for white women and then of course, they're all the innocent people named Karen out there you wrote about this backlash for the Post. What do you make of

4 (4m 0s):
it? There is this element of like people wanting to basically name and shame and impose consequences for Are the sort of behavior for casual both casual and aggressive and violent behavior? And we've seen that this Behavior can end in death in a country where white women very often are to be seen as being protected or should be protected at all costs. Basically, you know white woman's tears and cries brings white men to come and protect them and often that has meant death maiming. Ernst displacement just being a ejected from that space.

4 (4m 43s):
It's just how race and gender have inter played in a society that devalues black lives and elevates white lives. So when people say like oh this is sexist. I'm like no it's being specific. It's being specific about how race and gender interplay when it comes to the caste system that we have in this

1 (5m 1s):
country. This also kind of being like formalized right now is San Francisco lawmaker just introduced legislation called the Karen act to make it. Illegal to place racially-motivated 911 calls before this gets codified into law. Would you like to propose a different name? Maybe just a different term. So this isn't someone's name your name.

4 (5m 22s):
I mean to be honest. I don't care that much. I mean is it annoying sure like but I think if anything what is more annoying or perhaps more problematic about how it all is playing out is more so that The term Karen might be too nice for what we're describing in some ways. We might actually the better term for describing. What is happening is racist aggression. Yeah, I think what we're tiptoeing around in this conversation is like can we name dangerous behaviors and a comfortable way? I don't think anybody wants to take that to the conclusion that you're saying that you're basically saying you're acting in a way that is privileging yourself and dehumanizing others like I would think That's more uncomfortable.

4 (6m 11s):
And that's what they're reacting to but I agree that we should have language to call stuff out when it happens. I was trying to be Nicole this whole time. I was supposed to be here.

3 (6m 24s):
Well, Nicole, I'm sorry, you got roped into this whole kid thing.

4 (6m 28s):
I know like but you know what? It's my mom said because my mom was like I have no regrets about name of you Karen. She's like now you can be a Karen you could call the manager out on systemic racism. Has and like yeah mom, like, you know, we're gonna flip the script like we're gonna you know, we're gonna call out privilege. I'll be a Karen on that. So, you know, I it's to me, it's not that serious. Right? Like, you know, what's worse than being called a Cairn being shot by police.

1 (6m 57s):
I get called all sorts of things

3 (7m 1s):
and including the n-word actual slurs when I actually write about race. So again to me in the scale of victimization

4 (7m 9s):
As I said in my

3 (7m 10s):
piece like trying to invent invent your own victimization when there isn't any oppression happening to you is like being Peak Karen's so as I can I'm just like stopped after the break I park and the capitalization of the be in Black. It's today explained.

3 (7m 56s):
Support for the show today comes from yeah X2 flight text but with a Y which is convenient because you'll need to type in

1 (8m 2s):
yext.com to get to their website and find out more about ux but that's a spoiler. I'll get to there in a

3 (8m 9s):
moment EXT answers adds a powerful search engine to your website. So you can deliver an official answer to every customer question you've got and we're not just talking about one of those clunky list of Blue Links that Google hooks up yex answers uses a natural. Language processing to understand the exact question and deliver an exact answer plus you can add customizable calls to action in the answer like by

1 (8m 36s):
now or a book an appointment the website once again to find out more about yext answers is yext.com. That's where you'll learn more about how yext answers can help your website work harder for your customers and also for your business. Once again, it's yext.com.

3 (8m 60s):
Support for the show today comes with Michelle Obama podcast out now on Spotify. Thanks Spotify. Thanks Michelle Obama the series brings you listener inside the former first lady's most candid and personal conversations showing you what's possible when you allow yourself to be vulnerable to open up and to focus on what matters most and I know what you're wondering who is Michelle Obama going to speak to is she going to speak to Barack Obama? Yes. She is going to speak to Barack Obama. In fact, she already has it. In fact, she does all the time. I think you can even find that episode right now. She's also going to talk to Marion and Craig Robinson Conan O'Brien Valerie, Jarrett Michelle Norris. Dr. Sharon Malone episodes focus on the relationships that shape us from siblings and close friends to partner's parents mentors to our relationships with ourselves and our health.

3 (9m 52s):
Listen free at Spotify.com the Michelle Obama

1 (10m 6s):
Dr. Sandra Layne heart we were just talking to Karen about Karen but it feels like language is changing all over the map as a result of these protests for racial Justice is that your sense to from the high chair of linguistics at the University of Arizona. I think language is always changing and that's the nature of language if it's not changing then it's dead. We'd be be talking about Latin now instead, but I do think that The changes that you are seeing maybe more observable by a larger group of people in a way that's beyond just linguist looking at language change. Hmm. Okay. Well, let's talk about some of these changes that that I've been noticing starting with one that I think applies to to you and to me and I don't know if I'm saying it right to be quite Frank by POC that is exactly what I say.

4 (10m 57s):
Perfect. So I like

1 (11m 0s):
the term by POC I've been using the term. By POC and I do realize that by pocket is used in a couple of different ways by people. So I use it as black and indigenous people of color, but there are some people who like or prefer black indigenous and people of color. Okay, and truly I just started seeing this after the death of George Floyd, but how long has it been around? It's been around at least from what people can find. any 13, it feels like a bit of a confusing term because for a lot of people by means something else by means bisexual and so classifying black and Indigenous people as by feels a little bit confusing and then POC is pronounced POC but in by POC all of a sudden it becomes Puck which yes is so some people might be like like a Japanese cookie snack for all I

3 (12m 4s):
know like

1 (12m 6s):
is this term a little fraught I certainly understand that in that but again that's sort of the nature of language and especially the English language. I don't know if you're familiar with the George I'm blanking on his he's a white comedian. He's the one who smashes the Watermelons. Oh, it's Gallagher Gallagher. Thank you. Yes, you got it. So he has a well-known clip. I use it a lot for my linguistics. Is where he talks about the craziness of language of the English language and so he goes through you know, this is pronounced this way, but then why is this other thing with the same spelling pronounced a completely

3 (12m 43s):
different way to learn to read ahead of time? I'd ask my dad signs on the roadside. What does that say? Dad eats a good food. I say why they both end an Ood those words out of rhyme it ought to be good food or dude. Why is it good food? All right H ome, huh? Home s ome Psalm no come. All right, Som e some and ome numb. No and you and me. It's a great skit, but I think that is the nature of how

1 (13m 23s):
English in particular works because it comes from so many different places. Okay, so deal with the pronunciation but let's talk about the meaning is by POC like a modification of POC because POC wasn't hitting the right notes. Yeah PLC is fraud. I have issues with poc in the sense that it's one step removed from colored people

4 (13m 47s):
and so it That but also it puts

1 (13m 50s):
together a lot of people with very different connections to if we're talking about this American this u.s. Context was very different socio cultural histories in this country. For example, just to give people an example you like. It puts me a I don't know. What like an Asian Canadian American in the same category as you a African-American, right? Yes. It does that but also I mean issues around what's Asian is fraud part of that has to do with these colonized terms that came from colonizers of how they chose to group people as opposed to people grouping themselves.

1 (14m 32s):
Yeah, so that term has a lot of other things that are problematic with in it, but it's a term that's been settled on for now to be able to group essentially minorities to people but I think part of the problem with that is that it's not just minority sized. Sometimes because we have different histories. It's sort of like going back to How the Irish became White or the Italians became White who gets grouped as white write this term becomes everybody who's not white but then who gets to be white has varied across history and is still going through some of that processing right? I

4 (15m 8s):
think separating and

1 (15m 10s):
actually having a term like by POC matters black and Indigenous peoples their existence in the United States is different. Current uniquely different compared to every other group that we've minorities in this country how you get to a country has a long lasting impact on your continued existence in that country. So for example for Africans in America who were enslaved here being brought to this country as enslaved people being forcibly immigrated to a country. They did not come by choice.

4 (15m 49s):
That the impact the

1 (15m 50s):
lasting impact on them in ways that it wouldn't have for people who are newly arrived here, even though they may still be classified as black. I guess. This is a great transition to another conversation that's going on right now. And and where a lot of changes are being made which is the capitalization of the be in Black. So a lot of newspapers print Outlets online journalism are making this transition to has capitalized be yes. I have been fighting this fight for probably more than 20 years. So I am so

4 (16m 26s):
glad yeah, I've

1 (16m 27s):
had this issue in publishing both in the books that I've published and In Articles with issues around be because I always capitalized black when we're talking about the racial group, right? The reason I'm a proponent for capitalizing be when you're referring to black people is because you Referring to a group or a race of people and in the same way that we would do when we were inferring to indigenous people or if we choose terms like brown to refer to people from Spanish descent or who are from Latin X countries.

1 (17m 10s):
Those terms should be capitalized but you bring up white there is no movement to capitalize the W in white. Is there I I think there's a movement to capitalize it when I work. I capitalize all of those for any people. So if I use the terms white black brown or whatever, I capitalize them, huh? Yeah, one of the things I'd worked on years ago was the how limited the u.s. Is and how it understands issues around race and ethnicity and and naming practices that it has like when I was growing up in the US as a going to elementary school in Not we were taught that there were three races and everybody was grouped into those races and it was either caucasoid negroid or equals Mongoloid.

1 (18m 3s):
Where'd you go to school? I grew up in Texas. Wow in Texas caucasoid negroid or Mongoloid.

4 (18m 9s):
Yes, so everybody was categorized that way in the

1 (18m 12s):
US for you know for a lot of its history really thought about things in terms either you were black or White or essentially white and not quite right. And so I think that has content helped us to come to a very simplistic way of thinking about even this social construction of race as opposed to what does Humanity actually look like. So I think in the in the near future we're going to be having these more complex conversations to get to something Beyond maybe what people think about is crayon colors, right? But thinking about this complex history of who people are and in what ways does that matter and we are now trying to Grapple with it, right?

1 (18m 58s):
So right now we're doing a let's just try to classify everybody. Let's just make a box. So everybody can be included right? Yeah, but does it end up becoming meaningless? Like other too many classifications? Is that a risk? Like you said at some point it gets to be like, well, you know this this is this isn't helping this isn't making any sense for us and we need to come up with a better way. Understanding Humanity outside of trying to get into these fine-grained ways. Right? Sure. I also wonder how you help people understand these changes because you know, some environments social media college campuses can be very quick to adopt but other people are like Left Behind scratching their heads the conversations that we need to have around black and Indigenous people in this country.

1 (19m 45s):
Those are hard conversations that need to be had and they're very be different from the conversations that we would have for any other group of people in this country that we have minorities in some sort of

4 (19m 55s):
way. And I think when you use

1 (19m 58s):
that term you're recognizing that you're calling out these two particular groups because it's bringing up a conversation that we need to have our several conversations that we need to have in this country. And right now we are closer to having those conversations than we have ever been at any point in time, which is why we're talking about this. Term now because the term was there, but now people are talking about it because it is becoming part of their Consciousness and their everyday lives in a way that it wasn't in 2013. But all of this is going to be dependent upon white people wanting to engage in being willing to listen as well as to act from those

2 (20m 40s):
conversations.

1 (20m 43s):
I'll dr. Lainhart. I appreciate you having the conversation with me. Thank you. Dr. Sanjay lainhart is a professor of linguistics at the University of Arizona. I'm Sean Rama's Forum. It's today explained.