0 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from Venmo. Next time you split the bill score $10. When you pay with Venmo, from rent and utilities to concert, tickets and dinners out. Venmo makes it easy to share the fun and split the check in the app. Order delivery for the group. Get paid back before your meal arrive, share a ride with your roommates, split the car and the charge. Sign up today with the code explained and get $10 to spend and send offer ends December 31st, 2021 limited availability see terms at venmo.me/sign up 10 that's $10 with the promo code explained A series of deadly tornadoes ripped through the United States.

0 (42s):
On Friday. One of them might've been the longest tornado in the history of the country. And most of that one ended up in Kentucky. The damage is unlike anything the state's ever seen. Entire neighborhoods were destroyed. Thousands of homes are just gone. Some 60 people are dead at this point and that number is expected to rise and it'll take years to rebuild what was lost. It goes without saying that there wasn't enough advanced warning for people and with tornadoes, there never is. The average warning time for a tornado is about eight minutes. This past summer, our friends at the unexplainable podcast tried to figure out why that is why we can't predict tornadoes better than we do.

0 (1m 27s):
It turns out if we want to get better at it, we're going to need to chase a whole lot of tornadoes instead of letting them chase us today, we're going to run that episode of there so you can better understand what we know and don't know about tornadoes. Here's Brian Resnick and know I'm Hassenfeld from unexplainable.

1 (1m 47s):
Forecasters are just really bad at this. And when these warnings do come, they often don't proceed or tornado, 70, 80% of warnings don't actually come before a tornado. They're false alarms. What?

2 (2m 2s):
So you're saying people usually only have like seven minutes to get to safety and then like three quarters of the time. There's no tornado. Even when we do get the warning. Yeah.

1 (2m 14s):
This is where we are. How is that

2 (2m 15s):
Possible? How do we not understand this better?

1 (2m 17s):
The heart of it is actually kind of simple. Tornadoes come from thunderstorms, but meteorologists, they can look at two thunderstorms. These thunderstorms will look identical, but one will produce a tornado and the other one won't and they really don't know what makes the difference.

2 (2m 36s):
So what do scientists know about how tornadoes form?

1 (2m 39s):
Yeah, I was wondering that too. So I talked to Robin Tanah mochi. She's a meteorologist at Purdue university in Indiana, and she knows everything there is to know about tornadoes.

3 (2m 50s):
I teach mainly atmospheric science, radar, meteorology, and severe

1 (2m 54s):
Meteorology. She's been fascinated by them, her whole life. She told me the story of when she was a little girl, there was this tornado captured on the news by the news helicopter.

4 (3m 4s):
We're about three quarters of a mile from the actual touchdown. At this time, this is really spectacular.

3 (3m 11s):
And what did I see on the screen? But it was this gorgeous helical tornado, and it was live.

4 (3m 18s):
I'm going to have to leave this area here, that the Prius stripping my way here was like it's too much.

3 (3m 23s):
And I believe at this point, the helicopter pilot is realizing, whoa, we've got a live tornado on our hands. And so they're, they're maneuvering around it trying to keep a safe distance from it. Right now,

4 (3m 32s):
The tornado is located over wooded area, that it is ripping and tire pine trees into the air. Thousands of feet.

1 (3m 39s):
She remembers just like thinking I can't get enough of that. She couldn't look away.

3 (3m 44s):
My thought was just, what is it that's making this happen? You know, what is it in the environment that's necessitating that this thing exists and what makes it so powerful. I really wanted answers to those questions.

4 (3m 57s):
I know you would ask me some questions here. Unfortunately, I've been watching the tornado instead of where I'm going.

2 (4m 2s):
Yeah. Lots of questions. What's what's Robin learned so far.

1 (4m 6s):
Well, obviously she hasn't gotten to like that. Holy grail of being able to predict and know everything about the formation of a single tornado, but on the bigger picture, she does know where they come from. Mainly they come from here, they come from the U S

3 (4m 21s):
There are definitely hot spots all over the world, but the United States by far gets the most of them. Why

2 (4m 27s):
There? Why are there so many tornadoes in the U S

1 (4m 29s):
So like I said, tornadoes, come from thunderstorms.

3 (4m 32s):
A thunderstorm you can think of as an organism that ingests and eats swore moist

1 (4m 38s):
And warm moist air. We got that in spades that comes from the Gulf of Mexico. Okay. And that's moving north from the Gulf,

3 (4m 47s):
The tide of moisture that just keeps slashing northward from the Gulf of Mexico over the Southern tiers.

1 (4m 54s):
And then it hits two dry strips. So one, we got dry air from the Rockies and two

3 (4m 59s):
We've got dry air coming off, the Mexican plateau,

1 (5m 2s):
So that warm, moist air from the Gulf, it meets those other two streams and gets pulled up into them. But those two streams are moving in different directions. So all that air begins to twist and condense and form clouds

3 (5m 15s):
Start to rotate just on its own spontaneously. That air will be torked and twisted.

2 (5m 21s):
I, I, in my head, I'm envisioning, you know, like Looney tunes, when the three cartoon characters all like run into a big brawl and it kind of like spirals into a cycle.

1 (5m 30s):
Yeah. Something like that. I'm imagining something more of like a wizard summoning these Airstreams converge into a cauldron and create these vortexes. But we have different brains.

2 (5m 40s):
How did, how does Robin think about it?

3 (5m 42s):
It's a big barber pole in the middle where the air is rising, but it's also twisting as it goes up.

1 (5m 47s):
This is the heart of a super cell super cell. Yeah. Super cells are these mega thunderstorms that spawn tornado, they rotate. So they're kinda like these mini hurricanes. And the big question is like, how do you take this big kind of lumbering rotation in the sky from the super cells? And how does that get concentrated down into this vortex that actually extends from the cloud all the way to the ground.

2 (6m 19s):
Okay. So we know the us has all these super cells, these big twisting thunderstorms, and those sorts of give birth to tornadoes. So do scientists have any right ideas here? Like what sets this process off?

1 (6m 32s):
Well, before they even get to there, it's more like they don't see what sets it off.

3 (6m 37s):
That process is probably happening on timescales of just a few seconds or less.

1 (6m 43s):
All this happens. So fast weather radar, like our number one tool for observing storms. It just can't

2 (6m 50s):
See it. Why can't, why can't radar see tornadoes?

1 (6m 53s):
Well, one part of the problem is like, it basically picks up on moisture rain, and you can infer things from rain, like wind speed. Like you determine how fast that rain is moving, but it's like this incomplete picture of a storm. The other problem with radar is physically radar is this dish that spins. And so every time it spins, it like takes an observation of the thing that it's observing like a storm, but that takes a few moments for it to spin. You can have,

3 (7m 22s):
You know, a big lazy vortex in one scan. And by the time the radar swings around again, you've got a tornado.

1 (7m 27s):
The effect is kind of like if you were watching a dancer under a strobe light, the dancer being the storm and the strobe light being like the radar that can only capture it in certain moments. So the dancer starts dancing, she's spinning and you get a slice of it. And then the dish rotates a bit and it sees a bit, and then it misses and then it sees a bit, and then it misses a bit,

3 (7m 51s):
We're scanning it too slowly to see this very rapid process that's happened,

1 (7m 55s):
Whatever causes or tornado to spawn. It often happens when that dancer is in the dark.

2 (8m 3s):
You're saying that whatever happens to jumpstart, this tornado, it can happen so fast that it could happen in the dark of the strobe light. Like in that moment when the radar dish has its back turned, yeah.

1 (8m 16s):
Researchers are so in the dark, like, they're not always sure of like the tornado forms from the storm cloud down or from the surface of the earth up, or if like, kind of both things happened at the same time. And then they connect in this explosive way. It's just the basic idea here is like what we can't see. We can't predict

3 (8m 33s):
A lot of times this process is either invisible or

1 (8m 38s):
It's like, I'm a magician sleight of hand trick. Like again, like imagine two thunderstorms that look identical and one produces a tornado. Well, the one that's producing a tornado is like performing a trick that we just can't see. And that's really why tornado warnings are only sent out when a tornado is seemingly detected.

3 (8m 57s):
Our current paradigm for warning for tornadoes is something called warn on detection. Meaning either it's indicated by radar or somebody in the field has phoned in and then reported it. So the tornado has been detected. You issue a warning,

2 (9m 12s):
Wait, but I thought you said there were a lot of false alarms. Like the majority of the time it's sent out, it's a false alarm. So how could it be a false alarm if they detect the tornado and then alert people?

1 (9m 23s):
Because often when a tornado is indicated by radar, it's not a real tornado. It's just a, so it's a false detection and it's a false detection for all the reasons why I said radar, isn't that great. It just gets it wrong. It just can't see everything that's happening. And these false alarms, like, it's not just a meteorological problem. It's a psychological problem too.

3 (9m 45s):
You know, like the boy who cried Wolf syndrome, if you issue too many tornado warnings, people start to not trust them as much. We need to bring that false alarm rate down so that when we do issue a tornado warning, we're extremely confident people are actually going to take action.

2 (9m 59s):
So if scientists are already struggling to predict tornadoes, and then they're sort of training people to react to tornado alerts in exactly the wrong way with this boy who cried Wolf syndrome. I mean, how do you solve the tornado problem

1 (10m 13s):
For one Robin's really pushing for just better, faster radar that can scan areas more quickly. And maybe then it can pick up on more clues to just better see what's happening in these storms. And to see that moment of tornado formation like a faster strobe light, yeah. Faster strobe light, but really what meteorologists want is like better prediction, better like artificial intelligence that can just look at a storm and model it in a computer and then press fast-forward and see what will happen. If they can do that, then they can warn on forecast and say like 30 minutes from now, we've run the computer models. And this storm is going to create a tornado and you should get out of the way.

3 (10m 53s):
Yeah. We'd love it. If people could have is up to 30 minutes to an hour. I mean, that's, that's where you make a completely different session.

2 (11m 1s):
And I assume to get a better AI system, you just got to input tons and tons of tornadoes all over the country, right?

1 (11m 7s):
Yeah. And a big challenge here is that tornadoes are so varied. They come in all these shapes and sizes

3 (11m 14s):
From very skinny funnels that are only, you know, a couple hundred feet wide all the way up to two and a half miles wide, I believe was the widest one on record.

1 (11m 23s):
They seem to be very sensitive to local environmental conditions. So what forms or tornado when one area might not form it in another, maybe just like the presence of trees, changes the equation and tornadoes behave differently in different parts of the country. That huge spectrum makes studying tornadoes really cool, but it also makes studying them like really hard.

2 (11m 44s):
Yeah. And if you need to get a bunch more tornadoes to input into a new system, to figure out how to predict tornadoes, how do you find those tornadoes? If we don't, how to

1 (11m 53s):
Predict tornadoes? Yeah. That's a funny conundrum here. Like we need more data from the tornadoes themselves, but we don't know when they're going to show up. We need to be prepared to show up when they do, because to get that data, we solve this in the most bad-ass way possible. We have to go storm chasing storm chasing storm chasing after the break

Noom (12m 36s):
Support for the show today comes from noon and noon wants to help you lose weight. And the hardest step for a lot of people who are trying to lose weight is figuring out a plan to do that. nuMe has a plan it's called noon weight. Instead of setting a strict set of rules, new weight empowers you with the practical knowledge to build smarter, more sustainable habits and behaviors by using a cognitive behavioral approach, more than seventy-five percent of users complete the program on more than 60% of users lose 5% or more body weight by 60 weeks. That's according to the people at noon, you can sign up for your trial and get psychology based support and motivation to reach your goals at noon.com/explained that's N O O m.com/explained.

Uncommon Ground with Van Jones (13m 37s):
I am Ben Jones. And I grew up in a small town called Jackson, Tennessee. And when I grew up, it was totally normal for people to have friends who were politically different from them. In fact, one of my best friends in high school, he was a white guy who was conservative. This guy loved Ronald Reagan. I hated Ronald Reagan. And, you know, we would just debate and argue about it all the time. But we were friends. I miss that feeling that you could just debate and disagree without distrusting somebody without disrespecting each other. And I just want to bring that back. And that is the point of the uncommon ground podcast. You've probably got some people in your life who you used to be able to talk to. Now, you can't, everything is just too polarized. I think there is still a chance to have a better conversation in America. I'll bring special guests into the conversation like Megan McCain, Sarah Silverman, Deepak Chopra, and others. Our goal is to find common ground, join me every Wednesday by following uncommon ground on Amazon music or wherever you get your podcasts

0 (14m 49s):
It's today explained. And today we're running an episode of the unexplainable podcast also from Vox. It ran in their feed back in July. And it's one about the mysteries surrounding tornadoes. And one way to solve those mysteries is to storm chase. And you're about to hear from a guy who's very excited about chasing tornadoes. So excited. He even took his kid chasing a tornado. I know that might be hard to believe considering this weekend's events, but this is a professional who knows what he's doing. And just for the record, he is talking about chasing storms back in July of this year. All right. Would that being said, here we go back to unexplainable.

7 (15m 27s):
Yeah. It's always interesting. When, when the sirens come out, the normal public goes down to the basement and the scientists go to the roofs.

1 (15m 33s):
So this is Jeff Weber. He is an atmospheric scientist. He's he's stood on a few rooftops. He's chased a few storms. He actually chased one recently with his 12 year old son

7 (15m 44s):
And bitterly. I planted the seed, but he was really into it. After seeing his first tornado last week, he can't get enough. He wants to just keep doing it. So I got what

1 (15m 52s):
Ha what happened on this day? Well, we're,

7 (15m 54s):
We're, we're in the house. Tornadoes were not forecast to develop anywhere near as for the stay, but a tornado warning went off on my phone as a atmospheric guy. I have about five weather apps on my phone, started blowing up with this tornado warning. I'm like a tornado warning. That doesn't seem right. So I tell my son to run out into the backyard and see if he can see it. We did take some video and five seconds later, I hear him shrieking at the top of his voice. So we all run out, take pictures for the backyard. And I'm like, Hey buddy, you know, this is pretty cool. He goes, we gotta go. We gotta chase it. Let's go.

7 (16m 35s):
And so we ran to the truck and as we were driving over the top of the hill, we could see the whole layout of the storm. We could see the tornado from the top of the cloud deck, all the way to the surface of the ground. We could see the hail shaft. We could see the heavy rain. We could see the shelf top rotating above the tornado. Oh my God. By the time we got up close to it, it was spectacular. We could see the rotation. We could see the dirt being dug up from the ground. It was just an incredible event.

1 (16m 59s):
My heart is pumping. Does listening

7 (17m 2s):
Is awe inducing. It, it is truly awesome. It is. My mouth is like open as I'm staring at this thing spinning it's it's, it's amazing. It's unreal.

1 (17m 13s):
What was it like to share that with your son?

7 (17m 16s):
It was one of the highlights of my life to be chasing a tornado and sit to see my son so excited about it. I think I have a future atmospheric scientist on my hands.

1 (17m 32s):
So to start simply here, why is chasing tornadoes so important? Why can't we study them more remotely?

7 (17m 40s):
The most important things for a tornado to form is temperature, humidity, wind direction, and speed, but we need them at the surface. We need them at the upper atmosphere and we need them at levels throughout the entire atmosphere. And so to get that complete dataset all around the tornado at all, the different levels is very difficult.

1 (18m 2s):
Why don't we have this now? Is it, is it just like our typical weather radar? Doesn't take on all this information.

7 (18m 10s):
It's difficult to get this complete dataset because tornadoes don't stay on the ground for a long period of time. And we don't know in advance where they're going to show up. So if you want to do a contrast with hurricanes, for example, they take days, if not weeks to cross the Atlantic and we have the luxury of that time to fly planes through the eyewall that hurricane and get those, those measurements with a tornado. We don't have that luxury of time. They, they might be on the ground for as little as a few minutes. And so to be able to marshal all of those instrumentations and planes or sensors, it's very difficult.

1 (18m 44s):
So if we did have all the right equipment in place and at the right time, and we caught a perfect tornado, would that be enough?

7 (18m 53s):
Heavens no, we, we need, we need dozens. If not hundreds, they're kind of like snowflakes, no two tornadoes are exactly alike. For example, of a hundred tornadoes, you get 98 of them that spin clockwise. You're going to get a couple of them even spin counter-clockwise right. And we have, and we have no idea why I think as we get greater technology in particular with drones, either on the ground or in the air, it will give us a greater capacity to, to collect these data sets without putting humans in harm's way. And so I'm hopeful that over the next decade or two, that we'll have more complete datasets so that not only can we look at one dataset of the tornado wire form, but we can look at nuances and subtleties and differences on why one tornado formed different than another one.

7 (19m 35s):
And that's where we can unravel the mystery. Why

1 (19m 38s):
You confident that it's just the problem of more data? Could it also be the case that these storms are just so chaotic, so sensitive to very slight variations and geography or place or conditions where they're, they're just very hard to predict and we might not ever get much better at this problem.

7 (19m 57s):
Yeah. I appreciate that perspective. I'm a firm believer though, that science can, can solve a lot of these problems. If they have the proper data sets to analyze it, we know what we're dealing with and if we can close the box, so to speak around the tornado, we should be able to explain what's going on. We have a very good understanding of thermodynamics and instability, but we just don't know quite how they're interacting with each other at these finite scales that a tornado is, is operating in.

1 (20m 26s):
You're saying that like our atmosphere is knowable, like things that we can measure, we just need finer and finer grained resolution.

7 (20m 34s):
Exactly. There's no new physics being brought about by a tornado that the atmosphere is very well understood that the laws of physics are very well understood. We just need to see it at these smaller scales, how they interact to create the tornado.

1 (20m 46s):
I love how a lot of this boils down to well to better understand tornadoes.

7 (20m 52s):
We, we need to keep chasing, right? Is that what I'm hearing? Most definitely just photographs from the public can be incredibly helpful. Cause we're still at that point where we're photographs can gain insight into the structure of the tornado.

1 (21m 8s):
Do you? I don't know if we should like be telling people on a podcast to like take photos of tornadoes.

7 (21m 14s):
If you're trained and know what you're doing, they are very dangerous. But if you approach them from the backside, that's the smart

1 (21m 19s):
Approach they should be going away from you. I imagine

7 (21m 22s):
You're right. You should be chasing the tornado, not having the tornado. Chase you.

9 (21m 37s):
This episode was produced and edited by Brian Resnick. No I'm Hassenfeld and me who Meredith had not with extra help from Byrd Pinkerton, Mandy wind check the facts. Christian nyala sound design the tornadoes and no M squared the episode with some help from 3000 rivers, Lauren Katz heads up our newsletter and Liz Kelly Nelson is the VP of Vox audio. You can sign up for our newsletter at fox.com/unexplainable, an email. Any thoughts you might have about the show to unexplainable@box.com, unexplainable as part of the Vox media podcast network. And we'll see you next Wednesday.