0 (1s):
Groceries are expensive. Right now they're much more expensive than they were pre pandemic. Kellogg's, CEO Gary Nik was roundly mocked last week for suggesting that everyone just eat cereal for dinner. Cereal

1 (13s):
For dinner is something that is, is probably more on trend now. And, we would expect to continue as that consumer is under pressure.

0 (19s):
Cereal prices are up 28% since 2019. Gary, come

2 (23s):
On man.

0 (26s):
Meanwhile, a big grocery chain in Europe is refusing to sell PepsiCo products, accusing the brand of gouging its customers. That's unlikely to happen in the USA, but the 2024 election is barreling towards us. High grocery prices have become political and President Biden is on the offensive. Coming up on today, explain. Ready, set, go. It's supermarket weep.

3 (49s):
I might not have money for food or to hang out with my friends, but I always have money for candles. I always have money for candles.

Whole Foods Market (59s):
Taste the Mediterranean through March 19th at Whole Foods Market. Save on animal welfare, certified bone and beef short ribs, sustainable wilding. Caught sockeye salmon and more. Find sales on Parmesano REO charcuterie and ground lamb. Grab an olive Bullard bread from the bakery plus wines from the Mediterranean. Start at just 8 99. Taste the Mediterranean now at Whole Foods Market. Must be 21 plus. Please drink responsibly.

Stay Tuned with Preet (1m 29s):
If a hypothetical chatbot Cajoles is human lover to break the law, what's our recourse when bad actors use deep fakes to steal an election? What are our legal options? How can we use our legal system to shape the future of AI and protect us from harm? This is a stay tuned special series AI on trial. I'm Preet Barara to unpack the legal issues raised by ai. I'm teaming up with technology expert Nita Farrah honey. Hey Nita. Hi Preet. Each episode we'll work through details of a hypothetical case set in the

5 (2m 1s):
near future. Subscribe to stay tuned with Preet to listen episodes of AI on trial drop each Monday beginning in March.

7 (2m 13s):
Are you ready to go shopping? Step inside a very special supermarket. The only supermarket in the world that gives Hume

2 (2m 23s):
Is today explained.

0 (2m 25s):
I'm Noel King with Wizzy Kim, a senior reporter at Vox who's been covering the rise of grocery prices. Wizzy, what'd it do

6 (2m 33s):
In general? Grocery prices have increased about 25% since 2019. Like before the pandemic

8 (2m 39s):
Overall inflation is certainly easing or slowing, if you will, but new Labor department data shows that the amount being spent on eating has hit a 30 year high.

6 (2m 49s):
So one 12 ounce can of soda for example, is about 75% more expensive today than it was before the pandemic, but

0 (2m 56s):
It is still the same size can, right? Yeah. Isn't there another thing where we're getting, we're kind of getting less.

6 (3m 4s):
It's harder to quantify I guess how many brands are doing it and for which products. But there certainly have been instances where let's say a bottled drink of some sort is a smaller volume, but selling for the same price. And this is called shrink inflammation because you're paying the same amount of money for less product.

9 (3m 24s):
And as an ice cream lover, what makes me the most angry is that ice cream carts have actually shrunk in size but not in price. I've had enough of what they call shrink inflammation. It's a ripoff

0 (3m 35s):
Shrink lation and inflation. What's driving all of this? What's behind it?

6 (3m 40s):
Some of it is genuinely from higher input costs. So that might be things like just the actual base material for our product might be more expensive. Like I think we all remember when egg prices were super high.

10 (3m 55s):
I just left the deli. Guess how much they charged me for the dozen eggs? 6 99. 6 99 for the eggs. Can't even have an egg sandwich. This is ridiculous. I'm done. I'm done.

6 (4m 7s):
And that's because the egg prices going high was due to the avian flu just because there weren't enough healthy eggs and healthy chickens to go around for a while. And now that that's better, egg prices are down. Things like transportation costs, just the supply chain getting tangled up. So things taking longer to arrive somewhere. All of those things did add up to higher prices.

11 (4m 31s):
Yeah, these prices at the fast food establishments blow my mind. $40 to take your kids to eat breakfast at McDonald's. you know, now you got Wendy's talking about surge pricing. Now the only thing you fixing to see is surge in is ramen noodles.

6 (4m 46s):
But there is also a part of this that is about companies seeing an opportunity to push prices maybe a little bit higher than they actually need to. Major

12 (4m 57s):
Food companies are raking in record profits. ConAgra, which owns Chef Boy Rd Hunts and Slim Gym posting a 56% jump in profits last quarter compared to a year ago while quarterly profit.

6 (5m 9s):
It's not like we as a consumer know exactly like, oh, the higher input costs are just X amount and anything beyond this is greedy. We don't know to that level of detail. So it's opportunistic as well.

12 (5m 21s):
And as we the shoppers get used to paying more, economists warn that grocery prices could stay higher for longer

0 (5m 28s):
Into all of this madness over grocery bills being too damn high. Walks Carra four tell us what Carra four is and what they did.

6 (5m 40s):
Carra four is a European grocery chain and they recently started pulling some PepsiCo products off their shelves in at least five countries citing unacceptable price increases. Some people in Europe noted like Doritos or like Cheetos chips like that maybe not being available. Pepsi,

13 (6m 4s):
Lipton seven up Doritos ine nuts and Co Baker.

6 (6m 7s):
There hasn't been much detailed info on exactly which products are off the shelves, but we do know that certain PepsiCo products are not being stocked as they normally would be.

14 (6m 17s):
Pepsi has hiked prices for seven quarters in a row and despite reporting a 2.5% slump in sales, the company reported a 14% spike in profit. That's according to data from 2023.

0 (6m 32s):
How did Pepsi respond to this?

6 (6m 34s):
Well, Pepsi said that actually it was their choice to not supply certain CAR four locations because their, their negotiations broke down and they couldn't agree on terms to sell and buy from each other. Did

0 (6m 52s):
Carra four only target PepsiCo?

6 (6m 54s):
Carra four as of now has only taken PepsiCo products off the shelves in this manner citing unacceptable price increases. But last year they did do a shrink ation campaign where they would put these little labels next to certain products like Lipton Ice Tea, Lipton Iced Tea, which is also a PepsiCo product. And note that the volume had gone down of this product, but the prices were the same.

16 (7m 21s):
We consider that there's a lack of honesty towards customers and that the customer can be deceived because the product appears to be exactly identical to the previous products that they used to buy.

0 (7m 36s):
Europe takes a stand is like a familiar theme, and here in the United States we are dealing with exactly the same thing. Have any American grocery stores been like, PepsiCo, it's too much. We won't, we won't carry you. Well,

6 (7m 52s):
So I reached out to the four biggest grocery chains in the us which includes Walmart, Kroger, Costco and Publix I believe. And none of them got back to me. All of them declined to comment, comment. I think the answer's no.

0 (8m 10s):
It wasn't like, no, we're not gonna do that. It's because we want our consumers to have the choice. It's, we're not gonna hit that one head on. Do we have a sense of why they wouldn't respond to you? I mean, this is a sticky thing. I read about it, people sent me the article. I have friends who are like texting me weekly about their grocery bills. Why would American companies not at least wanna talk about it, do you think?

6 (8m 35s):
That's kind of hard to say definitively. you know, who knows what they're thinking. But I have some theories, and I think one of them is that Gro, the grocery market is even more dominated by really one company in the us unlike in Europe,

17 (8m 53s):
Where is it written that prices have to go up, not at Walmart.

6 (8m 57s):
So Walmart is just overwhelmingly the biggest grocery retailer as something like 25, 20 6% of the market commitment

17 (9m 5s):
To save you money wherever we can.

6 (9m 11s):
So Walmart doesn't really need to drag this out into the public. I'm sure to some degree it does want to keep prices reasonable for consumers. It behooves them to do that, but they don't need to be public and aggressive about it. They can just do it behind the scenes. They can just say, Hey, we would really like you to not raise prices this quarter. And a lot of these food companies will be like, well, it's Walmart. We should try to listen to them. Another reason we're seeing such differences across the board is that in France where Carefor is based, grocery retailers can only set prices or negotiate those prices once a year. In the US that can happen anytime that food companies wanna do it, and it does pretty much happen anytime they want.

6 (9m 54s):
So I would say those are the two biggest reasons why we're seeing such a difference across the board.

0 (9m 59s):
And so at the moment, grocery stores are not gonna have our backs and tell companies what to do. It wouldn't be the American way, I guess. Fair enough. Is there anything, I mean in your reporting, is there anything you came across about how individual shoppers can ease the cost of groceries at all?

6 (10m 16s):
I think it's really, really hard because again, you could, and I'm sure many people already do this, go to a value grocery chain, which Walmart is, and just find the cheapest prices possible. Whether it's buying the store brand or just cutting back on something, whatever it is. And Walmart does often offer the cheapest prices for groceries. But you know, the issue with that is long term. That also reinforces what I was just talking about, where Walmart has the biggest share in the market and command, the biggest price setting power. And that can just have this ripple effect on what prices other retailers can offer.

6 (10m 56s):
Because Walmart can basically demand lower prices from suppliers because they're so big and other grocery chains don't have that power. So you're gonna go to Walmart and that that's just gonna leave us fewer choices

0 (11m 17s):
Coming up. These United States are unlikely to ban Pepsi. What they can do

Deleteme (11m 29s):
support for today, explain comes from delete me. A lot of your personal data is stored online and that leaves you vulnerable to identity theft. Phishing with a pH, annoying spam calls, delete me can help get in the way of some of that. They find and remove personal information that you don't want online. They make sure it stays off. Sarah Frank is my colleague on the business side of things here at Vox. She tried delete and here's how it went. It was really surprising how much of my personal identifiable information was on sites that were accessible to really anyone. Knowing that Deleteme is able to find this information and remove it on my behalf, makes me feel a lot safer. You can take control of your data and keep your private life private by signing up for Deleteme now at a special discount for our listeners. You can get 20% off your Delete Me plan when you go to join Deleteme dot com slash today and use promo code today at checkout. Again, 20% off. Join delete me.com/today and enter code today at checkout. Did you miss it? Join delete me.com/today. Code today.

Mint Mobile (12m 34s):
Support for the show today comes from Mint Mobile. Some of the best things in life are made way better with a good sauce. I actually really agree with that. Mint Mobile I was recently without sauce and life was bleak anyway. Mint Mobile secret sauce is that they sell their wireless service totally online. That's how the company says they can save on retail costs and pass those savings on to you. And that lets them sell premium wireless plans starting at just $15 a month. To get this new customer offer and your new three month unlimited wireless plan for just 15 bucks a month, you can go to mint mobile.com/explained. That's mint mobile.com/explained. You can cut your wireless bill to 15 bucks a month at mint mobile.com/explained. Additional taxes, fees and restrictions apply. See Mint mobile for details.

Indeed (13m 36s):
Support for today Explained comes from Indeed. Indeed wants you to never again have a long drawn out hiring process to just find the right person. Indeed is a matching and hiring platform. It has this engine that's built to help you find quality candidates fast. According to a recent survey done by Indeed, 93% of employers agree that Indeed delivers the highest quality matches Compared to other job sites. Indeed can schedule screen message. How do they do it? Indeed says they leverage over 140 million qualifications and preferences every day. So their matching engine is constantly learning. Listeners of this show can get a $75 sponsored job credit to get your jobs more visibility at Indeed dot com slash explained. You can go to Indeed dot com slash explained and tell them you heard about Indeed on today, explained Indeed dot com slash today. Explained terms and conditions do apply

20 (14m 40s):
Attention. There is a clearing today. Explain.

0 (14m 45s):
So my name is Elizabeth Pancotti and I am a strategic advisor at the Groundwork Collaborative progressive think tank here in dc. Earlier in the show we were talking to Vox Wizzy Kim about how a grocery chain in France is fighting high prices by saying, we're just not gonna carry PepsiCo products. American grocery stores will not do the same. We talked about how it doesn't feel like the American way, but I'm really curious whether it is an option. Could the government make food retailers lower prices? Technically no Right now as it exists under current law, we have no authority for the government to come in and kind of establish price controls specifically.

0 (15m 28s):
The example you gave in France is a little bit different just because retailers negotiate in kind of a regulated way with food manufacturers. We don't have that system here. So while the government can't necessarily control the prices that retailers put on stickers, we can give more money to low income people to deal with those higher prices. And so the Biden administration has done this kind of incredible and and pretty underrated thing for about 40 million Americans who are on snap, which is food stamps or the supplemental nutrition assistance program. For those people, we actually can help them weather the storm of higher prices.

0 (16m 8s):
What did the Biden administration do exactly? So over the last three years, the Biden administration has actually increased the average benefit for those families on snap. By more than double how much grocery prices have increased,

21 (16m 23s):
The new maximum SNAP benefit for one person will be $291 for a family of four, they'll get $973.

0 (16m 31s):
It's sort of incredible. And I think like both people receiving those benefits and people in general just like aren't super aware of the really targeted and progressive food assistance policies that the administration has done. What about all the Americans who make too much money to qualify for snap, but too little to afford groceries these days? So the Biden administration's efforts so far have fallen into one big bucket that all call tackling concentration in our grocery and food markets. They've done great work there, but we think there are a couple other things they could do using existing law to bring down food prices, not, not so much to tackle their growth, but to actually bring the levels down.

0 (17m 16s):
And so the first is enforcing price discrimination statutes, And. the second is eliminating junk fees in grocery stores. Price discrimination is like personalized pricing. I'm charging some people lower prices than others for the same thing. The big effort you say is tackling concentration. What's the Biden administration doing there? So just last week we found out that the Federal Trade Commission is suing to block the $25 billion proposed merger between grocery giants, Kroger and Albertsons.

22 (17m 50s):
This deal would give Kroger and Albertsons control of more than 10% of the grocery market domestically. Both companies argue that this merger would lower prices for consumers and create good paying union jobs.

0 (18m 1s):
This had been kind of rumored in the news that the FTC was considering it. This deal was announced about a year and a half ago, and some state attorneys general have already sued to sort of say that this merger would make grocery markets less competitive in certain regions in certain states. But now the Federal Trade Commission has sued to block the merger entirely across the entire country. The

22 (18m 26s):
FTC argued the merger of Kroger and Albertsons would be bad for competition, lowering worker wages and driving up the cost of

0 (18m 32s):
Food. And then there is the meat industry. So for beef, pork and poultry, there are about six players that control between half and 75% of the market. But this wasn't always the case. The industry has become highly consolidated over the last 30 to 40 years, and that has kind of two big effects. One, ranchers make a lot less money, so they're getting about 30 cents on the dollar for the meat that they produce where it used to be. Nearly double that. And then consumers are paying a lot more at the grocery store because of this consolidation.

9 (19m 9s):
Capitalism without competition isn't capitalism, it's exploitation. That's what we're seeing in meat and poultry.

0 (19m 16s):
So the Biden administration has proposed rulemaking as part of a big plan to tackle fairness, competition, and resiliency in meat supply chains. These regulations, unsurprisingly, were severely weakened by the Trump administration. And so in October of 2022, the Department of Agriculture proposed regulations to increase competition and integrity in those markets.

9 (19m 42s):
Strengthening competition is good for all of us. Farmers and ranches deserve a fair shake. American families facing high prices of grocery stores deserve a fair price to put food on the table.

0 (19m 54s):
The Biden administration has proposed those rules, but they have not yet finalized them, meaning that they are not the law of the land currently. And so we really urge the administration to finalize those rules and put them into place to ensure that the law really protects ranchers and consumers. Here. When you have a consolidated meat market, meaning there's a couple players, it means that small supply shocks, like most folks have heard about avian flu and its effect on chicken prices and egg prices. They even have

10 (20m 26s):
An egg sandwich. This is ridiculous.

0 (20m 28s):
They have a much bigger price effect because there are so few players and so there's no competition in the industry for them to say, okay, we've been affected by AV and flu, but we'll, we won't pass that full price onto consumers to be competitive. The pricing power of these few players in the industry is really outsized when these supply shocks happen. And so the administration has not only, you know, proposed regulations that would prohibit price discrimination and deceptive practices, but they've also invested over a billion dollars in diversifying our meat supply chain so that there is more competition among suppliers. One other thing we think that the Biden administration can do that they haven't done yet is tackle price discrimination.

0 (21m 17s):
An interesting thing about big box retailers like your Walmarts and your Kroger, is that they go to Frito-Lay and they say, okay, we'd like to buy, you know, a hundred bags of Doritos for every store this week. Conversely, when a small grocer goes to Frito-Lay and says, I wanna buy five bags of Doritos, you can imagine that the price of those Doritos will be really different. There's actually a law on the books about how companies can charge different prices depending on the size of their buyer. And so it's much cheaper to manufacture a hundred bags of Doritos for every single Walmart store in America, right? Like you've got an economy of scale there that brings down Frito Lay's price.

0 (21m 58s):
You probably really want Walmart to buy a lot of Doritos from you if you're Frito Lay. And so you might give them a discount above and beyond how much cheaper it is for you to make that outsized number of bags of Doritos that's illegal under the Robinson Patman Act. Oh, and so that law is on the books, but not really enforced. It's been used like three times over the past 40 years. And so we think that the federal government could enforce this law that's on the books, and in doing so, make sure that the smaller grocers get the really good low prices that Walmart and Kroger are able to negotiate.

0 (22m 38s):
Anything else that the government could do to ensure that those Americans that are struggling at the grocery store struggle less? There's this one sort of niche thing that most folks probably don't know about. And so I think the best example of this is on the ice cream aisle, and you can only pack so many freezers into the aisle at Trader Joe's or Costco or Walmart, right? Like you just can't have a hundred aisles of freezer space as a result, let's say your Ben and Jerry's and Briar's, you have to compete for the amount of freezer space that you get at a grocery store. And so the way that grocers allocate this freezer space for, you know, your favorite two types of ice cream flavors is they essentially charge a fee that they give to the, they give the space to the highest bidder.

0 (23m 29s):
So if Ben and Jerry's has a new flavor they wanna launch, or if they really want a ton of pints of Cherry Garcia in a Walmart in Washington DC, they can just buy more of that shelf space. That means that Breyers has to take some pints out of the freezer space. And so this means that what Ben and Jerry's does is instead of just paying, you know, Kroger or Walmart, a bunch of money and then taking that as the cost of business, they pass that on to consumers. So your pint of ice cream might be $4, but then once they have to pay this fee called a slotting fee, they might charge you another dollar to cover the cost of that fee. And if we're trying to bring down grocery prices using the authorities, the limited authorities that the federal government has, we think they should stop with banning slotting fees.

0 (24m 16s):
President Joe Biden famously loves ice cream. I

9 (24m 19s):
Came down because I heard there was chocolate chip ice cream. By the way, I have a whole refrigerator full upstairs

0 (24m 26s):
If he, if he fixed that, he could do like a really authentic ad. I think so. I mean, we have, I think the, the best parts of the president are when he is at the ice cream shop eating chocolate chip ice cream. And so we should just have him do that for the next nine months till the election. The thing is, I am still getting angry texts and phone calls from my friends and family. I kid you not saying such and such is so expensive. I just spent $75 at the grocery store. I myself see it every time I go grocery shopping. It doesn't seem to be working Right. now, am I reading that wrong? I think that's right. But I think really the culprit here is corporate greed. We have found that all of these companies, at first, they were bragging about how big their margins were getting and how they were raising prices for consumers.

0 (25m 14s):
And now they're not so much raising prices, like grocery prices really have slowed in terms of growth. They're only, they only rose by about 1.3% last year lower than regular inflation. So like we've seen the tides turn, but prices aren't coming down even as cost for people making our food are coming down significantly. And that is a problem with America. Yeah, I think that's just the problem with unfettered capitalism, right? I mean, we've talked about how in France the retailers and the government have a lot more power to regulate this kind of thing. So one recent example is that Justin Trudeau, the Prime Minister of Canada, told all the grocery stores in Canada that they had to come up with a plan to lower prices for Canadians at the grocery store.

0 (26m 2s):
And if they didn't, if their plan wasn't satisfactory, he would raise their corporate tax rate. And I think you have a problem in America where if Joe Biden called up the CEO of Walmart and said, you have to lower your prices, or I'm gonna hike your corporate tax rate, the lobbyist of Walmart would probably laugh in his face and say, no, you won't. Friend of the show, capitalism. Elizabeth Pancotti, thank you so much for taking the time for us. We really appreciate it. of course. This is so fun. Thanks for having me.

0 (26m 42s):
Elizabeth Pancotti is with the Groundwork Collaborative, a progressive think tank. Today's episode was produced by Miles Doritos Bryan, and edited by Matthew Collette. It was engineered by Patrick Boyd and our senior fact checker as ever, is Laura Bullard. Please email any thoughts about today's show to Paul Krugman at the New York Times. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.