0 (1s):
Vaccines

1 (2s):
And vaccine, you got to get a shot, so you'll be feeling better. K your stay, hopefully you already do. When you do get healthy, you're going to get sick. Once I had to go get a flu shot and it keep you from getting food. When you new babies, if they're born,

0 (20s):
The COVID-19 vaccine made it possible for a large part of the population to get back to something like normal, but not kids under five late last year, there was some hope

2 (31s):
Pfizer's data showed that the immune response in kids was similar to what was seen in adults who got the vaccine. It performed well in the youngest of kids. So when kids six months to two years old, they had a very good immune response

0 (44s):
Until there wasn't

2 (46s):
Blood for toddlers older ones in this group, they didn't have the same response with a two shot regimen. Why

0 (52s):
Has it been so hard to get this vaccine

1 (56s):
Today? Explained

4 (60s):
Dakota is a show about how big ideas really work and where they might go wrong. Hosted by me, Neil Patel, editor in chief of the Virgin. I interview CEOs, policymakers, tech, experts, and creators about how they make decisions and how those decisions affect our shared future for better or worse. Past episodes have covered everything from self-driving cars to crypto, to social media moderation. It's a thoughtful, critical conversation about business and technology that you will not hear anywhere else. Follow Dakota, wherever you find your podcasts, new episodes come out. Every Tuesday

0 (1m 41s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king Lauren Gardner. You cover the FDA for Politico. Last Thursday, Moderna asked the FDA to authorize its COVID vaccine for kids under six

5 (1m 53s):
Company's announcement comms. As the FDA says, making a vaccine available for kids younger than five is one of its highest priorities.

0 (2m 0s):
Why is it taking so long to get a vaccine for this age group?

2 (2m 4s):
This is the million dollar question we were hearing towards the end of 2021, that the vaccine manufacturers were expecting data. By end of that year, early this year,

6 (2m 16s):
We'll ask the FDA for emergency use for its COVID vaccine, for children as young as six months old.

2 (2m 22s):
And that, you know, once they had the data in, they would be able to move pretty quickly to ask the food and drug administration to authorize their vaccines for emergency use for that, that population of children. And what's happened since then. Well, Omicron

7 (2m 37s):
The latest wave of COVID infections, making it feel yes, like December of 2020

8 (2m 43s):
Spike in new infections fueled by the Omicron. Variant is showing no signs of slowing down

7 (2m 48s):
New Jersey, Florida, Delaware, and Massachusetts also recently reported new daily record.

2 (2m 53s):
The companies were conducting their trials while this new variant started circulating in the United States. And as we've all seen with adults and older children, it was much easier all of a sudden to get infected. Then that changes how the data is collected and what it's showing.

0 (3m 13s):
It's been about a week since Moderna went to the FDA. When do we expect the FDA to give Moderna and answer?

2 (3m 20s):
So Madonna has said that they're going to need about a week or so to finish submitting all of their data to the FDA. Also keep in mind, Madonna is still hasn't had authorization given for their vaccine for anyone under 18 in the U S so there's a lot of data that they still have to submit. But what FDA has done is they're trying their best to give guidance to parents who want to know when these vaccines will be available without over promising. And part of the reason why they have to be careful in doing this is they cannot disclose confidential business information. Companies can say publicly when they submit an application to FDA, where they are in their process, you know, it's something they talk about on shareholder calls all the time, but FDA can't say that for them.

2 (4m 8s):
So FDA is really reliant on the manufacturers to publicize where they are in their process.

9 (4m 14s):
I believe in couple of months, we should be in a position to have a date and then event service up before the end of the year,

2 (4m 22s):
That has jaded parents, especially who have been so eager to get these vaccines because they feel like they were promised a timeline that really could not have been promised.

10 (4m 34s):
It's really frustrating that there's protection now for just about everybody else. But those of us who, who have young kids, I stuck,

2 (4m 43s):
They haven't specifically said when the Medina vaccine for kids under six will be considered, but they've held three dates in particular for pediatric vaccines. Keep in mind too. We're expecting data from Pfizer in the next couple of weeks. So that will also factor into what comes up when but Pfizer decided we need to look at what a third shot does for kids.

11 (5m 11s):
If they wait a little longer, if they administer the third dose in that clinical trial, they'll have a very firm picture of what level of effectiveness the vaccine is delivering.

2 (5m 19s):
So once that happened, there had been discussion about, you know, maybe we move forward on authorizing two doses of the vaccine, but knowing we might have to add a third in there. And moving forward with that kind of approach could have generated even more confusion than already exists.

0 (5m 41s):
These are the exact same vaccines that we're giving to adults. Right? When we talk about little kids, they would be getting the same vaccine that went into my arm.

2 (5m 50s):
So the dosage of these pediatric vaccines differ from what you and I might've gotten in our arms last year in Madonna's. The dosage of their pediatric vaccine is about a quarter of what's given to adults. And it's similar for Pfizer. You know, that there are pediatric vaccine. Dose is also a fraction of what adults received. That dosage still produces a similar immune response so that you can tell that these little kids' bodies are trying to fight off the virus in a similar way that if they were exposed to the coronavirus, they would see a similar immune response happen.

0 (6m 26s):
When the FDA evaluates a pediatric vaccine, what exactly are they evaluating? What makes this process so much longer

2 (6m 34s):
While companies have been in contact with FDA before they formally launch these, these applications for, for these authorizations FDA, that doesn't mean FDA has all of the data available to them, right? You know, they're talking to the manufacturers, having conversations before the application actually crosses their desk. So while they may have an idea of what they're about to see, they don't have the full picture. And once FDA gets that application, that's when the real work begins, because what happens is FDA basically rechecks all of the math that these vaccine makers do. They're like your math teacher in high school. That didn't just take your word for it.

2 (7m 15s):
That, oh, this is the answer I came to know. They want to make sure that you did the right process to get that answer. Right. And that's, that's what I don't think a lot of people in the general public understand is they are redoing all of these statistical analyses. They're making sure that the findings that the vaccine maker says, they ha they, they found when they crunch the data that FDA can reproduce that. And then it's also a matter of making sure that they have the manufacturing capacity to do this. What does your facility need to put in place to make sure that they can make these vaccine doses, especially since we're talking about smaller, different doses compared to what adults get it's, you know, they come in different boxes, they come in different vials.

2 (8m 0s):
So there's all kinds of things here that FDA has to check. Childhood immunizations are not at the level that they were pre pandemic. And there is a lot at stake here. If FDA doesn't get this right for the future of kids immunizations in this country, public health experts across the country are saying that they're increasingly worried that more families are projecting how they feel about the COVID vaccines onto other routine, childhood vaccines, everything from measles to chickenpox, to meningitis, things that, you know, over the years, parents just have routinely given their kids, right?

0 (8m 43s):
Sure.

2 (8m 46s):
If you think all the way back to polio, there was a period of time where there was a bad batch of polio vaccine.

12 (8m 54s):
One of the labs making the vaccines, hadn't taken the proper steps to kill the live virus in the shot.

2 (8m 60s):
The kids were injected with this vaccine that ended up giving them polio,

12 (9m 3s):
The surgeon, general halted, all vaccinations while they figured out what the problem was. And they created more safety standards.

2 (9m 10s):
Children were paralyzed, a few died, but still somehow the immunization campaign against polio went forward and we eradicated it in this country. If there's a major safety concern that could have been checked earlier on in the process of going over a vaccine makers application, and that gets missed and something were to go wrong with this very specific, very vulnerable population, it could completely undermine the public's trust in vaccinations going forward.

0 (9m 48s):
We already have vaccines for children over the age of five are parents of kids who are five and over vaccinating their children at very high rates, very low rates. What's it look like

2 (10m 2s):
While the vaccine is certainly popular for some parents, the rate nationwide is not super high. It's about 30% right now for kids between the ages of five and 11, who are fully vaccinated,

0 (10m 16s):
30%,

2 (10m 17s):
And the rates a little bit higher as you go up in age groups. So the 12 to 17 year olds, it's a slightly higher rate. Of course, they've also been able to get vaccinated for a longer period of time than kids between five and 11. But as you look to kids in these younger and younger age groups, parents have a lot more hesitancy about whether or not they're, they're going to move forward with vaccinating their child.

0 (10m 42s):
I see many parents around me in my social circle who are very excited to get a vaccine for their children who are under five flying, But that's anecdata of course we could see a similar situation where around only 30% of really we ones get the vaccine,

2 (10m 60s):
There will still be pockets of these populations and parts of the us that that remain on vaccinated. So it's going to be a little, a little bit of a game of whack-a-mole, right? Where, you know, you'll have some, some social circles in some metropolitan areas or some regions where there's a decently high vaccination rate for these kids. And then you're not going to see that in other places across the U S

0 (11m 23s):
For the parents of under fives who are listening right now, when do you think there will be a vaccine for little kids,

2 (11m 31s):
I'm going to base this on Madrona because they're the ones who have actually said, we have the data we are in the process of submitting it now. And based on the schedule that FDA outlined, the earliest FDA's advisors could talk about specifically the maternal vaccine, which is about mid June,

0 (11m 51s):
That's the earliest. They could talk

2 (11m 52s):
About it. That's the earliest. We'll talk about it, but they tend to move. They tend to move pretty quickly. Once FDA authorizes a vaccine, the CDC has to weigh in and formally recommend it. And once that happens, providers can actually start getting needles into arms Based on the schedule that FDA has outlined the tentative schedule late June seems very possible. I don't want to say likely, I don't want the parents to kill me. I hope that the earlier parts of our conversation made it clear that it's not as simple as FDA, just, you know, getting an application and waving it through

1 (12m 36s):
The goal is vaccine protects you from COVID or there's also a flu shot. It protects you from different secondaries.

13 (12m 58s):
What do you think about when you hear the word philosophy, Maybe nothing at all, which is totally fine, or maybe it makes you think of a stuffy seminar room or marble bust of dead Greek guys or giant books written a long time ago with little to say about your life. But philosophy is meant to be accessible to everyone at its best. It speaks to issues. We all face every day in the here and now Vox conversations has a new monthly series called the philosophers. Each episode focuses on the ideas of a philosopher or a school of thought from the past and explains why they still matter.

13 (13m 42s):
Today. I talk with some really smart professors, but this is not a college course. We're talking about things that are relevant and vital, and we're interested in ideas that crystallize the world around us. Check out our episode on how our bear can help us understand the war in Ukraine or our newest episode on how Hannah rent describes the political dangers of loneliness. Listen to the philosophers with me, Sean nailing every month, right? In the Vox conversations feed.

15 (14m 18s):
Check out these courts. Showpad made that sound famous in his funeral March, but it's actually the same chords that are found in Nirvana's song, something in the way This 180 year old ominous chord progression resonates with Cobain's melancholy lyrics. And the sound is connecting with listeners still today. Something in the way climbed billboards hot 100 and March, 2022 marketing. The time Nirvana has been on the chart just like today, explain breaks down the days. Latest stories switched on pop does the same for today's songs because it's not just Nirvana.

15 (15m 2s):
That's having a resurgence. The Yangtze sounds of nineties alternative music has made a comeback. The genres anti-corporate perspective, which developed out of the excesses of the eighties is a fitting backdrop to contemporary activists attitudes. This genre is back, but it's taken on a new sound with new faces. The second time around subscribe to switched on pop and discover the new alternative I'm cohost songwriter. Charlie Harding find switched on pop anywhere you get podcasts.

2 (15m 36s):
My name is Anna north. I'm a senior correspondent at Vox. I cover American work and family life.

0 (15m 42s):
There's definitely a sense among parents that their young kids have lost something, possibly even many things over the past two plus years. What does science tell us?

2 (15m 53s):
There's been a lot of research into the development of young children over the last few years. Some of the most interesting, I think actually looks at babies who were born in 2020 and whose birth parents actually, you know, were pregnant at the very beginning of the pandemic. There's some evidence that there was some impact on babies being in a prenatal environment during that incredible time of stress, they show, you know, some differences on some developmental tests. We have no way of knowing how long that's going to persist. And there's also a lot of confounding factors. So what a lot of scientists will tell you is the way they do science on little kids has changed a lot in recent years because of the pandemic they're masked for one thing.

2 (16m 36s):
So if you've ever tried to talk a talk to a small child where you're both wearing masks, like it can be hard to understand them. It can be hard for them to understand you. And there's also a lot more science taking place over zoom, taking place remotely, just for safety reasons that can change the outcomes that you get. So on the one hand, I think experts have been studying this question a whole bunch. And on the other hand, there's still a ton of looming questions.

0 (17m 1s):
When you say development tests show different outcomes, what are we talking about?

2 (17m 5s):
Some of the motor skills questions that experts will look at are things like can the baby plank, so can the baby, you know, lift up on, on feet and on hands and sort of hold their bodies straight? You know, other things include like, is the baby rolling over? Can the baby rollover from their back to their stomach? Can the baby get into a crawling position by getting up on their hands and knees? You know, these are all like basic small skills for babies that they, they use on the way to walking and running and doing all the things that, that a lot of bigger kids do. And there's some evidence that some of these gross motor skills were delayed a tiny bit in babies whose birth parents were pregnant, right in that, you know, really terrible time.

2 (17m 45s):
In early 2020,

0 (17m 48s):
You visited a pre-kindergarten in Queens as part of your reporting. What did you see? What struck you?

2 (17m 54s):
These are four year olds. They had been out of any kind of formal childcare setting, usually for six months in 2020. So they weren't out as long as some kids had been out, but they were still out for a good chunk of time. And you know, their teacher pointed out to me, even when they came back to school, it's not like their lives were normal because they often weren't doing like anything else, social, you know, they go to school, they come home. They're not going to the grocery store with their family. They're not seeing extended family. Maybe there's a lot of things that were different

0 (18m 25s):
When you talk to their teachers and said, how did those six months out of headstart affect these kids? What did you hear?

2 (18m 32s):
I think they would agree with me that these kids are now socializing, that they're sort of making, making up for lost time. But they, you know, in particular, one teacher that I spent some time with really felt that they had lost a lot.

16 (18m 45s):
And my first name is Rashaun. My last name is Khanum

2 (18m 49s):
Good scholar, Mr. Shawn, sometimes she taught these kids, older siblings or new their older siblings before the pandemic. So she's sort of been with this community for awhile.

0 (18m 58s):
We actually called Ms. Rashaan. She was in her classroom at the time

16 (19m 2s):
I am working for the child center of New York, since 2013 F preschool. We have eight classroom in the school for our TK and for our 4k, these children were two years old. When the pandemic started,

0 (19m 18s):
Ms. Rashaan, when the school went virtual back in 2020, what was the biggest change for you as a teacher?

16 (19m 25s):
Ooh, it was so hard. I never even hear the word zoom before. Like it was so hard. It was so hard, but we made it possible. What

0 (19m 33s):
Do you think was hardest for the little kids?

16 (19m 35s):
Each? You know, each child is different. They're so used to see the YouTube video and thing, but learning in front of the computer, like half an hour is really hard for them because of the age group. They can not concentrate so much for long time, even though we used to tell them that, okay, now you see your friend, look, she's in the computer. Look who is who you see, talk to them, say hi, hello. They were kind of like stuck somewhere. I don't know, but they don't talk with friends. Not at all.

0 (20m 6s):
Are there any specifics that you've noticed? Like they behave better or, you know, they talk less in class or they talk more in class. What do you think is the biggest change?

16 (20m 17s):
I see a lot of change this group. Now they're more independent in what sent, let me tell you, like we have a center. We have centers throughout the classroom. In the writing center. Children used to have the crayon pencil, you know, the paper, the scissors of whatever they need. They're writing to make art or something. Now they don't have, we don't have that in the writing table. We have everything in a little box for the children and that books go to cubby. So they are responsible for their box. They take it out when they need to. Right? So they are so independent. They come to school now by themselves, the parent from the door, they leave the children, right?

16 (21m 2s):
They come inside, they take up the jacket, they take up the bag, they get ready. They line up to us their hand. So before, when the parent used to come in the classroom, they usually help the children to do all these things. But that's why I'm saying that this group, they are more independent than the previous group,

0 (21m 21s):
Small children being a bit more independent. Sounds like an okay thing. What do you think

16 (21m 27s):
It's okay. In one way is not okay. In other way, because I feel like, yeah. Okay. To, you know, to, to survive, it's okay to survive, but their children, we have to, if you, if you started so early to do all the, take all the responsibilities, that's my personal opinion. You're going to be so tired soon, taking all the responsibility by yourself. And it's good. In one sense. Yes. They don't need anybody. They're so independent that that's a good, that emotional for less emotion. I feel less emotion because before, when the parent used to leave the children in the classroom, children used to cry.

16 (22m 7s):
Now, no crying. They come like from the first day, nobody crying. That's something like alarming. I think.

0 (22m 15s):
Why do you think the kids aren't crying anymore? What, what do you think is at the bottom of that?

16 (22m 18s):
They bring up with the pandemic. When the coroner us, you know, the mommy and everybody is telling them, you know, you have to be way from the thing you have to be. Don't go to other people's space. Although we talk that, you know, we, you have to go by yourself because of the virus. You have to be careful, but health and safety issue we put in front so that maybe, you know, motivate them to be not crying, but be safe.

0 (22m 46s):
You're saying you think it's really affected how they see the world.

16 (22m 49s):
Yes, of course. Because back in the day, even the parents, the adults would not tell them too much about the virus or something. Like nowadays, everybody talking about being healthy, being safe, being cautious about the virus and the not being sick. So all these things, yeah. All the things that affect the children, they don't used to not go to the park. They used to not go to the store. There is, do not go to the movie, not to the museum, not to the beach, nowhere just at home. You know, the most important thing for them to have a friend there. If the most hated phrase for them is I'm not your friend.

16 (23m 31s):
That's so heartbroken for them. So heartbroken. Most, mostly they like the friend. They like to be with the other. And the learn through the interaction. They learn through the physical interaction, the mental interaction, all kinds of like they even also the language, language play a big role to develop, to learn.

0 (23m 55s):
Do you think it's going to take work to get kids back on track? Or do you think they're resilient?

16 (24m 1s):
They are more resilient. That's that's true. They are resilient, but there will be an effect on them as they are going to the bigger world. And this group in that, because of the mask, I'm going to say they have the speech problem. A lot children learn through imitation through interaction. They don't really see our lips are moving. It's a big problem. They're learning now. No matter what language you're talking, you are speaking, you are learning the language. This is the age you are learning the language. So if really heard for this group,

17 (24m 45s):
Did you have to do school at home at all?

1 (24m 47s):
No. Only. Only virtual world.

17 (24m 49s):
Okay. Do you like school in person better? Yes. What can you do? What did you not like

1 (24m 56s):
About

17 (24m 59s):
What at school makes you really happy?

1 (25m 1s):
He, my best friend and like playing with him, we pair together and we like, we climb and Murphy, he runs off from me.

17 (25m 13s):
Oh, Jason.

1 (25m 15s):
No, no, I, I, I, I find it. I find another friend and then I just said that,

17 (25m 22s):
Oh, okay.

0 (25m 27s):
Before we go, a few summers back today explained did a mini series just for kids today, explained to kids is coming back this summer. And the people making it have a request they want to hear from the young people in your life who have a favorite plant based meal or snack. It will not shock you to learn that this is for an episode about eating less meat. If you've got one of those young people, please have them send us a voice memo. If they wish you can. Email recordings to today explained@vox.com. The deadline for submissions is May 15th. And just know we might use your child's voice memo in today, explained to kids.

0 (26m 8s):
If you want more information, there's a link in our show. Notes. Today's episode was produced by Victoria Chamberlain. It was edited by Matthew Collette. It was engineered by Paul mousey and it was fact checked by Laura Bullard and Tori Domingus. I'm Noel king it's today explained