0 (1s):
My name's Emma Alpern and I write about books for Vulture and I recently went to the midnight book release party at the Barnes and Noble Union Square for the latest in a Romantasy series by an author named Sarah J Mass, actually a reporter

1 (15s):
With New York Magazine. Do you mind if I ask you a few questions? Sure,

0 (18s):
Yeah. The atmosphere was a little like one of those Harry Potter book releases from the early two thousands, except that instead of crowds of kids and capes with wands, it was adults and faux leather and elf ears

2 (30s):
Myself. Today,

0 (31s):
All of a sudden I hear the room just start to erupt in a scream. I turn around and Sarah j Mass is here.

2 (42s):
I write these books, but tonight is about you guys.

0 (45s):
It was like we just conjured her up. Like with Faerie Magic

4 (50s):
Ahead on today explained how America fell for Faerie smt. Is it

2 (54s):
About what you guys have done, the fandom you have built

Lumen (1m 6s):
Support for today explained comes from Lumen. Have you looked in the mirror lately? Lumen wants to know and found yourself surprised by dark circles or fine lines you may wanna consider Lumen, which is a skincare line crafted, especially for men who wanna look and feel their best. Their Dark Circle Defense Balm is a lightweight gel that lumen claims can instantly plump dehydration lines and reduce the appearance of dark circles. Sean, you can head over to lumen skin.com/today and get your free trial of Lumen, dark Circle Defense Balm and other products. Now, your skin just might thank you

Unexplainable podcast (1m 44s):
If Valentine's Day isn't hitting you right this year, you might just need a good cry, but for some people crying can be almost impossible. I had not cried in more than a decade and I remember being in my room and just saying, okay, well this is it. Come hell or high water. I'm not leaving this room till I cry This week on Unexplainable crying. Why we do it And what happens to us if we don't listen to Unexplainable new episodes every Wednesday Today?

4 (2m 24s):
Explained Sean Rames firm here with Catherine Vanta Aranon, who recently wrote a piece for Vulture titled Sarah J Mass is the Mortal Queen of Faerie smut.

7 (2m 36s):
So Faerie smut is a loving way of describing an incredibly popular genre of books right now. I wanna be very clear that smut in this context is not meant as a pejorative and is in fact a way that people are very happily describing the kinds of books that they're reading in the same way that we imagine reclaiming things that were once considered trashy or below us. These are books that are also referred to as Romantasy, although not all Romantasy has to be about fairies, but they are books about fantastical worlds, often including mythical creatures, A

8 (3m 20s):
Prison breakout, a car chase intergalactic parasites, world hopping prophecy.

7 (3m 26s):
And they have a combination of big fantasy book world building maps. They have maps at the beginning and you are looking at different political situations and you're talking about, you know, chosen one narratives, magical systems, all that kind of stuff. We've

9 (3m 42s):
Got the anti-hero, high Prince, we've got a slightly psychotic brother and we've got their protective bestie slash guard and obviously we have a badass female main character,

7 (3m 51s):
But also key to the structure of these books. There is a romance plot. And so the fantasy worlds are built at the same time and often through the mechanisms of a romance structure. And so the big climactic scenes of these books tends to be this huge moment of satisfying romance Resolution or climax as you would as you have it. But then also, you know, overthrowing an evil say king.

8 (4m 19s):
Yes, we love some faerie smut, but that's not just what this is. And I needed to say

9 (4m 25s):
That. Yeah, look, I came for the spice, but I stayed for the plot.

4 (4m 30s):
And speaking of, I wanna talk about Romantasy Faerie Smuts Mortal Queen, Sarah J Mass, who we heard about at the top of the show. People were screaming when she showed up to a midnight mass book release, if you will. She sounds like she's super popular. Welcome

10 (4m 51s):
Back y'all. My next guest is one of the bestselling authors on the planet.

7 (4m 55s):
She's immensely popular. Her books have sold over

10 (4m 58s):
40 million books and redefined the fantasy genre. Wow, you did this release and like it just blew up. It literally was like Taylor Swift was releasing an album like it, all these people showed up. Is that normal?

7 (5m 11s):
They are target end cap type books. Like they are so popular that you can find them anywhere. Not even books are sold. Grocery store aisle level popularity. And she's also so popular and has been around for long enough that you're not just gonna see Sarah j Mass books on those shelves. They are also gonna be shelved next to a lot of other authors whose prominence is thanks in part to the popularity that was demonstrated by masses' work. So authors like Carissa Broadband and Jennifer Armand trd and Rebecca Ros, who is very popular in this last year. They exist in these big marketing spaces because of how popular Sarah j MA's work has been over the last five years or so.

7 (5m 55s):
Sarah J Mass has been writing for a lot longer than five years. It feels like it's taken a little while for mainstream media to really catch up to the narrative of like how immensely popular those books are. And so it's really only now that I think we are starting to see this huge boom in awareness for who she is. When her most recent book, house of Layman Shadow came out in January, she did an exclusive interview with the Today Show about it. Like that's the level of popularity we're talking. Hmm,

11 (6m 25s):
I mean that in your wildest dreams. No. Have you ever expected

12 (6m 28s):
That? No. No. When I was first getting started as a writer, like just trying to get my first book published, I told myself that even if it took me until I was 90 years old, that I just wanted one book published.

4 (6m 41s):
So what took so long for people to catch up to this immense popularity?

7 (6m 45s):
Yeah, I mean there's a lot of things happening here.

13 (6m 49s):
Oh, I just finished aar the first book, let's talk about it. Not my usual

7 (6m 53s):
Makeup. Like every other element of culture, social media plays a huge part. First of all,

13 (6m 58s):
I have not like actually wanted to read a book in years. Once I got to page like a hundred in this book, I could not stop.

7 (7m 4s):
It's a little bit hard to distinguish because Book Talk came to exist at around the same time as the Pandemic. So people are at home watching a lot of book talk at the same time that they're at home and not able to be out doing other kinds of activities. And so there is this perfect storm for why you would be sitting down and reading 600 page fantasy novels about fairies having sex. How do we

13 (7m 30s):
Feel about Tamlin? I'm obsessed with him. But then I looked on TikTok and everyone's like making fun of him. I don't get, why are we making fun of him? I don't get it.

7 (7m 37s):
And it has taken the media a little while to kind of realize that there's this big invisible, or at least only online audience who are happy to show up in person because it's been a while between all of that happening. And then Sarah J Mass actually releasing a new book that finally happened this last January. And so suddenly you get these midnight release parties that people are so excited to show up and scream about. And it feels like it came out of nowhere, but it's actually been building for a long time. For Sarah J Mass in particular, throne of Glass was originally shelved as and is still often considered a YA series. Ah, the combination of ya and the very romance elements including sex scenes, explicit sex scenes also make these the kinds of books that have had a hard time being recognized as culturally important literature in the world.

7 (8m 36s):
These are the kinds of things that people tend to either not admit that they read to their friends and family, or they do admit they read in these little sort of safe book club type spaces.

12 (8m 48s):
One of the most mortifying moments of my career was my mother-in-Law. Oh no, pulled me aside. She goes, were all those steamy scenes inspired by you and Josh? I wanted to just walk into traffic.

7 (9m 4s):
So there's a combination of like a lot of like cultural baggage. But I I, you know, one of the other things that I just wanna mention is we live in an age of audio books and Kindles now. And so people can be reading lots and lots and lots of things with covers that they may not be happy to have other people see them reading on the subway and now everyone can read whatever they want and nobody has any idea what what is is actually happening on their screens.

4 (9m 30s):
Can you give us a sample reading? Do you have a favorite passage?

7 (9m 34s):
The piece that I wrote for Vulture does begin with this excerpt from a Court of Mist and Fury. That's the second book in the Court of Thorns and Roses series. And it is a sex scene and I, I wanted to begin there. I think because we have this squeamishness about sex scenes, this idea that like that's the part of the book that because it sounds silly sort of invalidates the rest of the book and also because that's the thing everyone is sort of most fascinated by. But I do wanna say the identities of the people who are hooking up in this sexy and could be considered a spoiler if you've never read these books and are really hoping to.

7 (10m 16s):
So just so you know, I'm gonna say who former human now faerie Pharaoh is having sex with in a court of mis in Fury. The setting here is that they're in a magic cabin. They are having sex for the first time and they are so excited about it that they have set had sex all over a table covered in art supplies. So his name is Reese Resand and she says Reese picked up a bar of that pine tar smelling soap and handed it to me and then passed a wash rag someone, it seems got my wings dirty, my face heated, but my gut tightened Elyan males and their wings so sensitive.

7 (11m 4s):
And then FAA starts washing Reese and she like looks over his shoulder into the bathtub and she says at least the rumors about wingspan correlating with the size of other body parts were right. So he does have wings, he has giant bat wings just for reference. Very

4 (11m 23s):
Hot. Are these books good?

7 (11m 27s):
Okay, this is a complicated question. I love these books. I read them with a level of absorption that can only at times be called child neglect as I do have two small children and I think they're astonishingly well designed books in a lot of ways from a prose level. I often find myself frustrated or noting a lot of repeated words where I feel like if I were an editor I would be making notes or choices. Hmm. But it does not matter. Like I'm still reading them.

7 (12m 9s):
And I think on other levels, the sort of plot structure, the design of them, the way that they are able to blend these two different spaces, this like big fantasy mechanism, which is really hard with this romance structure, which is also, it's really, really hard to get this stuff as right as these books get it

4 (12m 31s):
Does something about this feel new because romance isn't new and fantasy isn't new. And surely the two have been combined before.

7 (12m 42s):
Yeah, they absolutely have been combined before. And when I was what would be a young Sarah j Mass reader now when I was like 14 or 15 I was reading Anne McCaffrey books and those are sci-fi fantasy books about dragons. And when the dragons get horny for each other, the people who are bonded to those dragons also get horny for each other, please

4 (13m 7s):
Dali. Nice.

7 (13m 8s):
And it does feel like we go through sort of generations of this and each generation doesn't always remember all of the like leading lights of the past generations. And part of that is because we don't have like a canon of this when we say like who are the great novelists of this era and that era? And we haven't done a great job of remembering the people who came before in these spaces, but they do exist. I also don't think it's an accident that a genre like this that is about this sort of, you know, big fantasy types of world building that happens to appeal largely to women is now as popular as it is in the years after Marvel and DC have become mainstream kinds of popular texts for, look, it's everyone, but I'm gonna say men, right?

4 (14m 4s):
That's my secret cat. I'm always angry.

7 (14m 9s):
They're more focused on big battles. They don't have really interesting romance. The character development really kind of sucks. And if you're a woman and you're watching them and you're thinking like, but I would really rather spend a lot more time with why she is in pain and then like once we understand that, then she can kiss each other. But I still want all the fantasy stuff like that's where a Sarah J Mass comes in and we are more accepting of these kind of subcultures that actually have become mainstream. Now

4 (14m 35s):
When we're back on today explained what the Romantasy boom tells us about us

Noom (14m 52s):
support for the program today comes from Noom who would like to remind you that your body is like no one else's. Your body is a snowflake and they wanna help you with your snowflake according to Noom. They build a plan specifically for you based around psychology and biology even helping you understand why you might crave that one specific food at the same time every day. I've never craved the same food at the same time every day, but maybe Vox iss Sarah Frank has Using Noom. I liked how easy it was to get set up and I liked their super friendly features that allowed me to track and input my workouts, goals, moods, and stress levels every day You can stay focused on what's important to you with Noom psychology and biology based approach. Sign up for your trial today at Noom dot com. That's NOO m.com.

12 (15m 48s):
When you go through an ORC massacre, you're gonna have some trauma, right? It felt like a natural thing for my characters to face emotional consequences

4 (16m 2s):
Today. Explained Kristen McLean works at the market research company Circana. She has spent 30 years analyzing what sales of books and video games tell us about the people doing the buying AKA, you and me.

7 (16m 16s):
So the primary data set that I'm most well known for is the books data set. And what's really interesting about tracking books is that books are really ideas in between two covers, right? So when you watch what people are buying in the book market, especially in a very large data set like what we have, it's almost like a Maslow's hierarchy of needs or a ticker tape for what people are thinking about. So you know, a book is a book, but a book is also saying something about what people wanna cook next or what people wanna spend their time doing in terms of entertainment. What are they reading for fun? And also what are they researching? What do they need answers on, what problems are they trying to solve? So it's a really, really interesting way to just get at what's in people's months.

4 (17m 1s):
So we talk about Romantasy in the first half of the show. Can you tell us how popular it is right now just out the gate?

7 (17m 9s):
So Romantasy is really the latest wave of genre fiction that has taken off in the United States. And we can trace that trend back to 2021 during the pandemic when people had a lot more time on their hands and they decided to spend some of that time reading. And so in 2021 we saw adult fiction really take off and, and there are a lot of reasons why that happened, but categories like romance for instance were very strong,

15 (17m 35s):
All is fair in love and

7 (17m 37s):
War. One of the things that really kickstarted romance was Bridgeton

16 (17m 45s):
Bridgeton.

17 (17m 46s):
You have no idea what it is to have one's entire lag reduced to a single moment.

7 (17m 50s):
And bridger's really interesting because Bridger, the author of Bridgeton, Julia Quinn is considered a traditional romance author, but the adaptation of Bridgeton onto streaming and the re reimagination of that visually got a lot more people excited about traditional romance.

4 (18m 7s):
I fun

7 (18m 9s):
For you. So Romantasy is really the next wave coming off romance. So it's Romantasy stories set in a fantasy world and right now the top authors in the overall bestseller of the United States are all Romantasy authors.

4 (18m 25s):
Maybe I'm projecting here, but when I think 2024 I think of two very old, not very sexy men running an aid election against each other,

18 (18m 37s):
Same over the hill. Don Lemon would say that's a man of his prime.

4 (18m 41s):
I don't think of faerie sex. Tell me what book sales looked like in a previous maybe more quote unquote normal election year, let's say 2012. What were people reading back then?

7 (18m 55s):
Normally there's a pretty standard pattern in in a political election year, right? So we would expect to see strong sales the year before, the year of, and the year after an election. So if we went back to 2012, like that was the middle of the Obama administration, you know, we would've seen prominent journalists and others writing biographies about the president.

19 (19m 19s):
The story of Barack Obama's unlikely Rise has already been told by the president himself in a pair of memoirs. The journalistic challenge for Pulitzer Prize winning author David Marius was to dig deeper from

7 (19m 29s):
Obama. We would've seen commentators writing about historical stories or other political stories, but generally those books, poli sci we call them, would be on the rise the year before and the year of an election. What's really interesting about what's happening now is that actually I don't see any of that happening. And in fact, political science books are down 50% new political science books down 50% here at the top of an election year. Very unusual. Wow. And this is the third year of decline for political science in January. So we really are seeing a lack of momentum in the category. And to be honest, I think kind of a lack of interest on the part of the consumer market, I think because these are essentially two guys who have both already been in office.

7 (20m 15s):
And let me just say the Trump presidency was one of the best things for political books ever. We sold more political books in in 2020 than ever before in the United States. Wow.

20 (20m 27s):
This is a very simple title on the book. Why we're polarized Donald Trump, right? No, yes, maybe no Donald. Trump is symptom not

4 (20m 35s):
Cause.

7 (20m 35s):
So it's been a come down and honestly I, I'm not sure how many new stories there are to tell about these guys, right? So part of it is there just isn't as much momentum and fire in the overall market for these books.

4 (20m 47s):
Books, okay. But still, even if there's nothing new to say about these two dudes, and even if we kind of, you know, spent all our money on books about politics the last time literally these same two guys ran against each other, how do we go from political books to faerie sex?

7 (21m 7s):
Well I think that it's a bigger question than even an election year, right? I mean if we think about what has happened to us, you know, globally since 2020 and we look at data around how people are feeling and we look at the fact that we have two GR ground wars happening globally right now. We have a lot of economic uncertainty. We are

21 (21m 28s):
In a vibe session. That's the word vibe session

7 (21m 32s):
Frankly. I think a lot of PTSD coming off the pandemic, we had disruptions to school, we had disruptions to work, we have climate change, you know, anxiety, like it's a very anxious time with a lot of uncertainty. You

22 (21m 46s):
Are not wrong to think that things are very bad right now in lots of different ways. They're

7 (21m 50s):
Terrible. And one of the things that we see during times like that is people look for escapist ways to relieve their stress. And so we see that in people really loving nostalgia for instance. We see it in people wanting to create a stronger sense of community for themselves in lots of different ways. And we see them consuming content that takes them out of themselves and, and reading escapist fiction is one of the classic ways to escape reality, right? So I think that that is all at play in in why we're seeing some of these fictions like romance and Romantasy and fantasy and horror.

7 (22m 31s):
All of these things emerge sci-fi because they really are very strong ways of helping people just get out of their own anxiety and into a great story which relieves that tension for a while. And then the other thing that I think is really interesting, we saw during the pandemic the emergence of TikTok as a major force in the US book market and that was really about fiction and fiction that appeals to younger audiences. So we did some research in 2022 on who this audience was. And one of the things we discovered in that consumer research is that about 80% of the people who are heavy TikTok users, also heavy readers are under the age of 34.

7 (23m 15s):
And like one in 10 is under the age of 18. So I think the other thing that's really driving this is that there's a lot of fiction being bought and talked about by younger consumers and these guys just really love genre fiction.

4 (23m 29s):
Does that mean that this is just a trend? Does that mean that Faerie smut is just the flavor of the weak?

7 (23m 36s):
Yeah, I mean I think that's the nature of fiction. I think that there, you know, if you think back on say the last 15 years, you can think about the things that popped and then died away. So you think about Twilight for instance, right? That was all about vampires. We went through a big vampire phase there,

3 (23m 54s):
See it out loud.

7 (23m 57s):
And then you think about Hunger Games And dystopian fiction and that had a moment and a lot of people following on and that has kind of died away a little bit. We saw the rise of romance and that is giving away right now to Romantasy. There will always be fans for fantasy, there will always be fans for Sci-Fi. And I do think that this next generation of readers is building a real market for romance and for Romantasy. But will there be something else that catches people's imaginations or the next big book that comes up that isn't Romantasy for sure. So I think that's just the nature of the reading cycles and what people get excited about and and how they talk about it.

4 (24m 45s):
That was Kristen McLean from Circana. Earlier in the show. You heard from Catherine Vanta Aranon from Vulture, and at the very top of the show, her colleague Emma Alpern, she wrote a piece for Vulture titled Midnight Mass. Mass is with two A's and one s. For those of you not in the Know Vulture is part of New York Magazine. For those of you not in the know, you can subscribe@nymag.com. Today's show is produced by Amanda, big Dragon Lewellyn. It was edited by Amina Ade Laura, Bullard FactCheck, David Herman, engineered. We are today explained.