0 (1s):
Measles was declared eliminated in the United States over 20 years ago. But today there are cases popping up around the country

1 (9s):
This morning, measles cases on the rise in South Florida at Manatee Bay Elementary School near Fort Lauderdale.

0 (16s):
Most Americans were vaccinated against it as kids. That's the good news. The bad news is that it's really easy to catch. If you weren't.

2 (25s):
Measles is one of the most, if not the most contagious, infectious disease on earth,

0 (31s):
And the number of people opting out of common vaccines is growing.

2 (35s):
It's concerning to me that especially in this post pandemic world, we are allowing our response to infectious diseases to be a choose your own adventure type of approach. Rather than using decades of standards of practice

0 (51s):
Coming up, a new resurgence of an old disease, and how Florida became the center of another outbreak.

4 (1m 1s):
From chatbots to image generation to deep fakes will AI doom democracy?

1 (1m 7s):
The audio technology is frankly what concerns me most with AI imagery. There are at least visual cues that you can sometimes pick up, you know, like the hands, like the text with audio, it's really tough.

4 (1m 19s):
How worried should we be AI in the election? That's this week on The Weeds new episodes every Wednesday.

0 (1m 40s):
It is today explained. I'm Halima Shaw filling in as host today. 41 cases of measles were reported so far across the United States. Florida is in the lead with 10 of them, but the case numbers aren't the only reason Florida's measles outbreak is in the spotlight. It's the state's unusual response to it. We reached out to Caroline Kaman to explain what's going on. She's a health reporter at the Orlando Sentinel. Florida's a really wilding state to be a health reporter. I asked her how the measles outbreak started in Florida. That began a few weeks ago when a kid at an elementary school in South Florida tested positive for measles. Despite having no history of travel, parents

5 (2m 22s):
Say they found out Thursday night by email.

6 (2m 25s):
It said that a field trip was canceled

0 (2m 27s):
Because

6 (2m 28s):
Of a confirmed case of measles. So when I saw confirmed, I was like,

0 (2m 33s):
Wait, what? The outbreak spread pretty quickly among other kids in the school. We

7 (2m 38s):
Are at Manatee Bay Elementary and Western, where there are now five confirmed cases of measles.

8 (2m 44s):
8% of kindergartners in that county are not vaccinated for measles. According to state data

0 (2m 49s):
At this point, a few people you know outside the school have contracted it.

9 (2m 54s):
A 10th case has been reported in the state. It is a travel related case in an adult that was reported in Polk County. Now, the other nine cases you probably know are in Broward County. Seven of those linked to Manatee Bay Elementary School in Westin.

0 (3m 8s):
Now, after going through the Covid Pandemic, when the numbers, the case numbers were in the thousands, 10 can sound like a small number. Can you talk about why that's such a significant number? Measles is a serious, highly contagious airborne disease that is characterized by a rash and also often comes with a fever, a dry cough, and a runny nose.

10 (3m 34s):
Physicians today know that measles is more than a nuisance. It can bring on bacterial infections, can cause fatal pneumonia, and in some cases encephalitis inflammation of the brain. Each case needs good medical care.

0 (3m 50s):
It is almost completely preventable by vaccination. Vaccination prevents 97% of cases. Measles is also incredibly infectious, even more infectious than covid ID. So if someone is unvaccinated and they're exposed to someone with measles, they have about a 90% chance of catching it. The really scary thing about measles is it comes with all of these potentially serious and fatal side effects. So one in 1000 will get encephalitis, which is this, you know, brain swelling that can lead to serious permanent effects.

0 (4m 33s):
I think one to three out of a thousand people are going to die from measles, and it's just a really scary disease. How did the Florida Department of Health respond to this outbreak? The Florida Surgeon General sent a letter to parents at the school essentially saying that though, the typical recommendation is to stay home for three weeks, unvaccinated kids can go to school if their parents are comfortable with it

11 (5m 3s):
Due to the high immunity rate and the community, as well as the burden of the families and educational cost of healthy children. Missing school, DOH is deferring to parents or guardians to make this decision about school attendance.

0 (5m 16s):
He did not urge parents to vaccinate unvaccinated kids. The Florida Department of Health has, however, been offering measles vaccines at Manatee Bay Elementary since the outbreak began. What do we know about this particular surgeon in general? Is this unusual for him? He was appointed to the position during the Covid Pandemic after being a very outspoken critic against the Covid vaccine.

12 (5m 42s):
One of the things that we've lost sight of during this pandemic and really far in the rear view mirror is choice. And this has actually been a cornerstone of public health.

0 (5m 53s):
I would say that he is one of the most influential and honestly probably the most credentialed voices in the movement against the Covid vaccine. He's Harvard educated, was at UCLA until Governor Ron DeSantis appointed him or State Sergeant General, and he's a big proponent of natural immunity of just letting the virus, you know, wash over the population. And he has just been incredibly skeptical of the Covid vaccine, despite overwhelming evidence that it is safe and it is effective in his role as the Surgeon General has gone on the campaign trail when our governor was running for president, he's attracted a lot of criticism.

0 (6m 41s):
I know after this measles incident, US rep, Debbie Bosserman Schultz called for his resignation. Our

13 (6m 47s):
State leaders are failing us on this front. Surgeon General LA Dapo needs to go.

0 (6m 53s):
He's gotten a lot of negative feedback from the health community and others. So this highly credentialed Harvard educated medical professional is questioning the Covid vaccine. And it's obviously not sitting well with other members of the public health community. But I wonder how parents and schools are reacting to him. I feel like it is a mixed bag. I mean, I think there's definitely parents who believe that vaccines fall under parental rights and that is something that should be left up for them to decide for their children. But I also have talked with parents who are concerned for their children's health.

14 (7m 38s):
It makes me a little concerned. So my daughter's fully vaccinated, but my son can't get his second one until he is four and he's high risk for a lot of other issues.

0 (7m 47s):
There are some kids who can't get vaccinated because they are allergic to the ingredients in vaccines or kids who are immunocompromised and vaccines don't work as well for them. And a lot of parents are very afraid for their kids and afraid of the implications of not encouraging vaccines. It also occurs to me, Caroline, that parents have had to deal a lot with schools being in lockdown with their kids, being at home with struggling to find childcare. Is any of that is any of the struggle of c CVID 19 influencing how parents are seeing this particular situation?

0 (8m 30s):
The State Surgeon General has made concerns about kids staying home from school, you know, a big part of his vaccine, hesitancy in his letter where he said parents could decide whether to keep their kids home from school. He referenced the impacts on social and educational development that keeping kids home from school for three weeks would potentially cause. So I, I, you know, obviously kids staying home from school really set a lot of kids back.

15 (9m 2s):
I think the education value is still there with him returning to school. you know, we already had a massive time away from school with Covid. We didn't want to repeat that.

0 (9m 11s):
Caroline, the, the Surgeon General is now facing calls for his resignation. There is now nationwide attention on Florida's measles outbreak. Do you think that any of that is going to have an impact on how Florida addresses this going forward? Honestly, I don't think so. He's faced a lot of calls for his resignation before from powerful people. you know, the FDA and the CDC have sent him multiple letters throughout the Covid outbreak telling him that by discouraging vaccination, he is endangering public health and abandoning his duty to the public. As a public health official, I don't think that this scandal is going to change Florida's public health policy.

0 (10m 3s):
Caroline Kaman is a health reporter for the Orlando Sentinel. We reached out to the Florida Department of Health to get their take, and they told us media outlets are politicizing this outbreak. And that quote, 97% of students at Manatee Bay Elementary received at least one dose of the MMR immunization. End quote, MMR stands for the measles, mumps and rubella immunization. One dose is highly effective, but the CDC recommends kids get two for more immunity. The department also said that the Surgeon General's current guidance quote ensures that parents or guardians are able to make the best decisions for their families regarding school attendance.

0 (10m 47s):
End quote, Coming up, the number of parents opting out of vaccines for their kids is hitting a record high. An epidemiologist explains what's behind that

Bombas (11m 11s):
Support for today. Explain comes from Bombas. Regular listeners may know I'm in my gym rat era and I recently ran seven miles on the treadmill and got terrible blisters, wore my socks. The culprit didn't occur to me until just now. When I saw that Bombas features foot hugging honeycomb arch support, cushioned foot beds and anti blister tabs. They also have other apparel like T-shirts and underwear. According to Bombas, every time you buy something from Bombas, they donate one essential clothing item to someone facing homelessness. Sarah Frank works on the business side of things at Vox. Did she get blisters? I don't know. Let's hear what Sarah has to say. I've Had several pairs of bombas over the years, and recently I had a chance to try both the compression socks and the Women's hiking socks. And this is a true upgrade to my Bombass collection. You can head over to bombas.com/explained and use code explained for 20% off your first purchase. That's B-O-M-B-A s.com/explained and use the code explained at checkout

18 (12m 16s):
Last week, Unexplainable went looking for aliens at the furthest reaches of the universe.

19 (12m 22s):
There's just an uncountable amount of planets out there,

18 (12m 26s):
But we're also looking at our own planet.

20 (12m 28s):
How do you know that we are the first technological species on earth?

18 (12m 34s):
The search for intelligent aliens in deep space and in deep time, Listen to Unexplainable new episodes every Wednesday.

16 (12m 48s):
Hey, before we get back to the show, here's something fun today explained is going to South by Southwest in Austin This year I'm interviewing Charlemagne, the God host of the Breakfast Club. We're gonna talk about President Biden's problem with black voters. Polls, also vibes and EC data suggest that black men are growing more interested in Donald Trump this election season. What's going on? I'm hosting a special live show on March 10th on the official Vox Media podcast stage at South by Southwest, sponsored by Atlassian. The stage is also gonna host live episodes of Stay Tuned with Preet on with Kara Swisher. Where should we begin with? Aire Perel, Brene Brown will be there. What and other shows from the Vox Media Podcast Network.

16 (13m 28s):
If you can't make it to Austin, I completely understand. You can hear my interview in your podcast feed on Monday, March 11th. Two Radio, Hosts, charlamagne, and Noel. For the price of one, it's gonna be great. Visit Vox media.com/live to learn more. That's Vox media.com/lot.

0 (13m 48s):
We are back. I'm Halima Shaw. Filling in on today explained the invention of the measles vaccine was a hallmark of human progress. That's because the disease was nearly unavoidable. For most of history,

2 (14m 1s):
Measles is one of the most, if not the most contagious infectious disease on earth.

0 (14m 8s):
This is Caitlyn Lina.

2 (14m 10s):
I'm an epidemiologist and publisher of the newsletter, your local epidemiologist.

0 (14m 16s):
What has a measles diagnosis meant for a person? For most of history,

2 (14m 21s):
I mean for most of history it has is detrimental. I will say most cases is a rash. It's usually mild, but cases can move and to be very severe leading to hospitalization and death. One thing that people don't realize, what measles can do is this secondary impact. So even if you survive a measles infection, it can wipe the immunity you have to other viruses. So for example, influenza or COVID-19. And so what happens is, yeah, you may survive from measles, but unfortunately your defenses are down to, to other common viruses circulating, which can then also leave to severe disease.

2 (15m 8s):
So bottom line, it's nothing to to mess with. And vaccines have been a game changer with this disease in the United States and across the world.

0 (15m 19s):
Caitlin Measles was declared eliminated in the US in 2000. It wasn't supposed to be a problem for us in the new millennium. So why are we seeing outbreaks today?

2 (15m 30s):
So in the United States, you're right, we have this elimination status and what this means is that we just don't have sustained community spread. That it's not randomly spreading at a grocery store, for example, but it's not abnormal to have a measles case here and there. We actually see them every year. And ca cases typically come from international traveling and people bringing them to the states and then spreading in little pockets of unvaccinated people. And so it, it's not abnormal again to see measles case here or there, but we are starting to see measles come in hot in the year 2024

21 (16m 7s):
Back here at home. The CDC is warning about the rise in measles infections in the us. Hundreds of thousands of children are at risk of getting deathly ill.

2 (16m 17s):
The reason why US epidemiologists are a bit concerned about 2024 is one measles flares up every five years. It has these cyclical flareups. The last big quote unquote measles year was in 2019 where we had about 1200 cases. And in fact, in 2019, we almost lost our elimination status because we had did wow have community spread for a couple months. And that was mainly due to a huge outbreak among Jewish Orthodox community in New York City. An

22 (16m 49s):
Outbreak in New York City led the mayor to declare a public health emergency in part of Brooklyn. Today,

23 (16m 54s):
This orthodox Jewish section of Williamsburg Brooklyn is ground zero, where some 250 measles cases have been confirmed within the last nine months.

2 (17m 3s):
We're also starting to see more sparks or more embers across this nation at a higher rate than we did see last year. And the concern is if these sparks hit a pocket of unvaccinated people, it could lead to a wildfire.

0 (17m 19s):
What is ultimately driving the lower vaccination rates that we're seeing?

2 (17m 23s):
I I will say vaccine skepticism. If

24 (17m 26s):
You're like 21 years old and you say to me, should I get vaccinated? I, I go, no. If you're a healthy person and you're exercising all the time and you're young and you're eating well and like, I don't think you need to worry about this. All you hear is take this vaccine that doesn't even prevent you from getting the disease, or you can't go to the Broadway show, it's madness.

2 (17m 47s):
This isn't new. Although it seems to be worse in this post covid vaccine error because miss and disinformation is starting to hit the mainstream. I'm

25 (17m 56s):
Sure you've seen the pictures all over the internet of people who've had these shots and now they're magnetized. They can put a key on their forehead, it sticks. They can put spoons and forks all over them and they can stick

2 (18m 5s):
Due to loss of trust due to this changing information landscape due to bad actors making a huge profit due the pandemic putting vaccines in our microscope. The

26 (18m 16s):
Lies we were told about the Covid V were so grotesque and so overwhelming, a lot of people were killed or permanently disabled by it. Now, how many people were hurt by the vax? How many people were killed by the vax? It was mandatory.

2 (18m 29s):
And then there's also other reasons. For example, a lot of children missed routine doctor's appointments during the pandemic. And we're still trying to catch up from from that in 2020 and 2021.

0 (18m 43s):
How are people going about bypassing the measles vaccine? Because that's one of those vaccines that you get as a little kid before you enroll in school.

2 (18m 53s):
As a parent, you can get an exemption at schools, and there's two types of exemptions. There's a medical exemption. So for example, the kid medically cannot get this vaccine because it puts them at risk for other more severe outcomes. But then there's also non-medical exemptions because of religious reasons or philosophical reasons. And these non-medical exemptions have been increasing very quickly in the United States. And it's concerning because it shows that there's this uptick in parents believing vaccine misinformation or certainly being hesitant to it.

0 (19m 32s):
People have a lot of reasons for vaccine skepticism and you know, it can range from maybe mistrust in the medical establishment because of a history of medical abuse in your community, or go all the way to, you know, a discredited conspiracy theory. How is a provider and a health department supposed to overcome that? Because these are really emotional issues.

2 (19m 54s):
It is emotional, and it's not only emotional. I think it's really important to recognize, kind of like what you're saying is that vaccine hesitancy isn't dichotomous. It's not, you're not pro-vaccine or anti-vaccine. Really hesitancy lays on this spectrum. And so how you help that person, one, you have to realize where they are in that spectrum. But regardless, empathy really helps how you frame a conversation with skeptics matters. Because our goal is to set new foundations of trust. And if we use words like absurd or insane, all they're gonna do is double down because that is the tribe they're a part of and they'll become defensive.

2 (20m 35s):
So I think we really need to think about empathy And. the second reason or thing we need to do is we need to equip trust in messengers, for example, physicians, pastors, education boards, people in our community that people trust and that they'll listen to And. we need to figure out how to best equip physicians, for example, with this evidence-based education to help diffuse the bad information. But

0 (21m 0s):
It seems like part of the problem here is that the trusted messenger, at least in Florida, the surgeon general, is breaking with public health norms. I mean, what are you supposed to do in that situation?

2 (21m 12s):
You're right. you know, a lot of vaccine disinformation, spreaders are physicians, people with white coats, people that have an MD that we're supposed to trust. And so I think that this is where our systems come into place. For example, our medical review boards, the credentialing process for public health departments, because really that lever is what's gonna help stop those top down vaccine disinformation spreaders.

0 (21m 45s):
I mean, one thing that occurs to me is that the mechanism that parents are using to basically not get their kids vaccinated is violating for an exemption on the basis of philosophical grounds. Should parents be able to do it as easily as they're doing it?

2 (22m 2s):
You know, this has been a, a really strong state level conversation that we've seen, and there's actually states that do not allow non-medical exemptions anymore. One for example, is California, and they changed that law after a huge measles outbreak at Disneyland in 20 14, 20 15. But starting

27 (22m 20s):
In 2021 is going to get a lot harder to get a vaccination exemption and kids without them have to either get vaccinated or they can't attend school.

2 (22m 28s):
And the impact that that state level legislation had was enormous. So I, I do think it's really important, and I do think that's where governments help step up. I think the ultimate challenge though is that it comes down to we are moving in a more individualized society, but the problem is with infectious diseases, that it violates the assumption of independence. That what you do immediately impacts those around you. And so the biggest question to me is if our society, if the United States is moving towards individualism, how do we then combat things that require community action?

2 (23m 13s):
It requires us to be on the same team against these viruses. And I think that it's a cultural question that we're just gonna have to see unfold and see how we collectively answer that. In the years coming.

0 (23m 28s):
How does this make you feel as an epidemiologist, Caitlin? We're talking about a highly contagious disease that is highly preventable, that is spreading in the 21st century.

2 (23m 40s):
I'm exhausted, I feel, and I know a lot of my public health colleagues feel like we're moving backwards. And maybe that's what it takes, right? That people may just have to see how badly measles is before there's change. you know, we live in a very reactive society and eventually the pendulum has to swing between panic and neglect. It's tiring. But we have this collective amnesia towards these really old diseases and I think people are privileged to not know what they do. But it does is certainly concerns me and makes me a bit nervous.

2 (24m 21s):
Going into 2024.

0 (24m 26s):
Kaitlin Lina, your local epidemiologist, you can find her newsletter on Substack. Our show today was produced by Jesse Alejandro Cottrell and Victoria Chamberlin. It was edited by Amina Elsi, engineered by David Herman and fact checked by Laura Bullard. The rest of the team includes Isha, artsy Miles, Bryan Haddi Makhi, Amanda Lu Wellen, and Rob Byers. Our supervising editors are Amina Elsi and Matt Collette. Our executive producer is Miranda Kennedy. We use music by break master cylinder. I'm Halima Shaw filling in for our regular Hosts, Noel King and Sean Rames firm today explained is distributed by WNYC.

0 (25m 7s):
This show is a part of Vox, which is totally free. Thanks in part to contributions from our listeners. If you're feeling generous, you can contribute to at Vox dot com slash give.