0 (1s):
The new animated Spider-Man movie does a lot of things you don't see other comic book movies doing. It opens with a superhero playing in a punk band and imagines what Manhattan would look like if it were mashed up with Mumbai. It acknowledges the existence and importance of Jamaican beef patties the most important of all, it looks really good. I looked at my uncle and ah,

2 (23s):
Let me guess,

0 (24s):
He died. Like the movie looks astonishingly good. It shifts visual styles as its characters moods shift. It reminds you that comic book movies come from comic books of visual art form. It reminds you how easy it can be to forget that fact. Why?

2 (40s):
Can I understand

1 (41s):
You? Oh, great. That's

0 (42s):
The s Hey, everybody, it worked. Who's

1 (44s):
Worked

0 (46s):
Coming up on today? Explain why so many big special effects laden blockbusters Don't look very good anymore Today explained Sean Ramo firm. But today we're bringing you something a little different. I recently had the privilege of guest hosting another show in the Vox Media Podcast Network, Intuit with Sam Sanders. You might remember Sam from Public Radio. If you're a listener, it's been a minute now. He's hosting Intuit, the Pop Culture podcast from Vulture and New York Magazine.

0 (1m 29s):
So, while guest hosting, I wanna talk to someone from Vulture who could help me understand something that often leaves me scratching my head. Why big budget movies these days so frequently look kind of trashy? I'm talking about the Big Third Act, superhero battles, the Under the Sea extravaganza the Bomb rolling through Rome. You know what I'm talking about? This is what we dug into when I guess hosted into it, and we're bringing you that conversation on today. Explained

2 (1m 57s):
The VFX industry is in turmoil right now, and with 90% of all movies reliant on, you know, using some sort of VFX in them, there's a real shortage of qualified workers. Chris

0 (2m 11s):
Lee is gonna be our guide today. He's a senior reporter for Vulture and New York Magazine.

2 (2m 17s):
One segment that I know came up for a lot of criticism that I personally think is incredibly preposterous and poorly rendered. CGI was in the most recent Dr. Strange movie, Dr. Strange, in the Multiverse of Madness. When Dr. Strange faces off against this octopus monster in the city streets of Manhattan, It just looks so cartoony and awful and just ridiculous. Like the sense of consequence of like, you know, are these characters going to be stomp, you know, stomped to death by this marauding octopus monster goes out the window because you just like think to yourself, this looks stupid and childish.

2 (2m 58s):
So I think that there's been a lot of stuff like that in recent Marvel movies. Like in in, you know, the Eternals, there's a, a Superman que character who flies around shooting lasers out of his eyes that, you know, people thought was rather poorly done. A lot of people point to the end of the first Black Panther as appalling vfx, huh? So the first Black Panther was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Picture and It as heralded as among the best Marvel movies to ever come out. But if you look at the end, the climactic battle sequence, people say it makes no sense. Like the, the characters have been doing super things throughout the movie and at the end of the movie, the physics with which they operate go out the window.

2 (3m 42s):
Like suddenly they're jumping, you know, the, the, the height of a skyscraper apropo nothing like, you know, there, there's nothing to establish that they can do this. And what I'm told by VFX professionals is that, you know, basically the studio ran out of time and money and just thrust the work upon VFX workers who were out of their depth and they came up with the best thing that they could. But the result is decidedly lackluster and kind of takes you out of the movie at at worst. Help

0 (4m 10s):
Me understand how that could happen. I mean, was the director not around for the making of the last, what, third of the movie or whatever it

2 (4m 19s):
Is? Well, okay, I'm so glad that you asked about that cuz this is a crucial part of the problem with the current VFX malaise. Ryan Kugler is a director who earned his stripes as a filmmaker at the Sundance Film Festival. He directed a small independent film called Fruitvale Station, which was made on her shoestring. We

3 (4m 38s):
Played B tag today. Really?

2 (4m 40s):
Did you win?

3 (4m 41s):
They couldn't catch me. Oh, thank you. Fast, huh.

2 (4m 45s):
And then suddenly he's thrust into the top echelon of directors and given a movie with a nine-figure budget and an extensive computer generated imagery quotient, a lot of Marvel directors and a lot of people, you know, directing movies in this superhero space come from the same background. They, they don't have experience with vfx. This is the problem. Like, they'll get sort of rough drafts of what a sequence is gonna look like, and they have trouble conceptualizing what it's gonna be like when it's eventually on screen as opposed to a director who has an extensive experience working with vfx. So it's not like Brian Kugler abdicated his responsibilities as a director. It's just, you know, I'm told again and again that somebody like Chloe Jah, who similarly came for directing a movie like Nomad Land and you know, got Marvels the eternals

4 (5m 34s):
Five years ago, tans erased half of the population of the universe, but the people of this planet brought everyone back with a snap of a finger.

2 (5m 45s):
These guys all don't have any background in vfx, and yet they get these big VFX heavy movies and then they're expected to know what to do, but they don't.

0 (5m 57s):
You are mentioning a lot of Marvel movies, and I know the most recent Antman movie got a lot of criticism too, for just being this sort of garbage feast of vfx. The

5 (6m 8s):
Faces looked bad, the Scott doubles looked awful, and It got me thinking how this was approved to be in the final cut of the movie.

0 (6m 16s):
Why is it that Marvel gets so much attention here? Is it because they're making the biggest movies or are they actually the worst offenders?

2 (6m 26s):
Both of those things. So, you know, Marvel is the most reliable blockbuster factory in the history of Moviedom. Hmm. I mean, they, their track record of success is unparalleled. It's, it's truly astonishing the number of billion dollar movies that they put out. So they're floating on money. They have a ton of money, they could, you know, flood the zone with money and surround all of their VFX and c g I people to prop them up and make sure that these movies look as good as they possibly can, but they're notoriously cheap. Hmm. And

0 (6m 58s):
You're calling companies that spend, as you said, nine figures on movies cheap.

2 (7m 3s):
Yeah, and I mean, if, if you've ever sat through the, the closing credits for one of these movies, the interminable closing credits where there's like hundreds of credits of VFX workers. Yeah. There'll be up to 12 VFX houses working on a, you know, to get to one of those post credit sequences that I watch. I don't know if you do it, it seems incomprehensible. I know to think that Marvel would be cheaping out, but they underpay and overwork these employees on these films. Systematically week

6 (7m 31s):
I worked a 28 hour shift. People would drink on the job or they would use substances to be able to finish the work. And so it just physically exhausted us. Probably sh like shaved off like 10 or 20 years of my life.

2 (7m 55s):
This is bad news, man.

6 (7m 58s):
My name is Maggie Sk and I'm a visual effects artist based in Los Angeles. The best way to describe my job is basically Photoshop for video. I have never worked for a Marvel. I do have many friends who work in the Marvel Productions, and I've heard a lot of the worst stories and abuses that we hear about the industry has come from the Marvel productions. But it's not just exclusively a problem with Marvel. It's, it is a problem with the industry as a whole.

0 (8m 42s):
Are there good examples of this work relationship between directors and visual effects artists or even just the work itself? I mean, avatar too comes to mind. They spent forever making it. I didn't read any articles about how everyone making it was miserable the whole time. And obviously the director is a competent guy, if not like, a bit of a raging narcissist.

2 (9m 7s):
That's that. I'm so glad that you brought that up because yeah. That, that is really a model of how things can work and you know, for, it works for a number of reasons. James Cameron is a perfectionist, albeit a narcissist and, and control freak. But you know, he would never consent to putting a movie into the marketplace that looked bad or had shoddy vfx. So the, the Bullard arc against doing that is to budget as much time and money as needed. And, you know, the, the box office returns speak for themselves. I mean, the wave water crushed it

7 (9m 39s):
Now. James Cameron, of course, avatar two out in theaters now about to cross 2 billion. You have hopefully, hopefully few weeks from now. Hopefully I'm saying it, I'm predicting it. Okay,

2 (9m 52s):
Thank you. Generally speaking, everyone loved the vfx. I mean, I've heard some people deride it as, you know, it looked like a screensaver, but I think it was beautiful and fresh and really the cutting edge of technology. The flip side of that is movies that have a release date staked in the calendar months if not years in advance. So everyone's moving towards that release date and the deadlines can often be untenable, but they're immovable. So if a movie isn't quite ready or if it's not quite ready for prime time, they just crack the whip on the VFX workers and make them rush it into production. So to answer your question, yeah, if more people had the juice and clout of James Cameron to take as much time as they needed and en enable all the quality controls necessary, this wouldn't be a problem.

2 (10m 39s):
But the way Hollywood works is that these release dates are staked out and everyone's gotta move heaven and earth in order to meet those deadlines.

0 (10m 46s):
Do you think broadly speaking, audiences really noticed the difference between really good visual effects and sort of ham-fisted last minute rush jobs?

2 (10m 58s):
Yes. And you know, I, I wanna bring the Little Mermaid into this conversation once.

8 (11m 4s):
Hey, have you not heard that? But no, the gossip, the Booz, the who said what? Who does that? Yeah, the butt.

2 (11m 11s):
Well, you know that that movie came out recently. It did 118 million over Memorial Day weekend domestically. But I've heard of CGI I described as clunky. Hmm. I've heard the VFX described as soulless. Hmm. People saying it's unfinished

0 (11m 26s):
And it's hard to come out under the sea after avatar the way of water.

2 (11m 31s):
That's really, really hard.

0 (11m 32s):
But those movies still make, as you mentioned, like over a hundred million in their opening weekend. Is there an incentive for studios to rush out whatever they've got? Because maybe audiences will just show up anyway for the nostalgia to see the sequel, to see where the story's going, to see Paul Rudd, whatever it might be.

2 (11m 52s):
Yeah, for sure. I mean, you know, this Ant man that you were just referring to is the most successful installment of the franchise. So yes, for all the reasons you just mentioned, like there's a built-in consumer base, especially for the M C U where each movie is an interlocking part of a larger soap opera with a meta-narrative of characters and storylines that jump in between each other. So there's almost a doing your homework quality to seeing Marvel movies at this point is like, you know, a big portion of moviegoers are just gonna go just to stay current. But you know, I think that Hollywood proceeds with Cheaping out on VFX at its own peril. The fans don't take kindly to being given low quality product.

9 (12m 32s):
I still don't know how Marvel let these scenes slide into

0 (12m 35s):
Their movies.

2 (12m 36s):
They hate that.

0 (12m 37s):
Why does Marvel's visual effects

2 (12m 38s):
Look so bad? They feel insulted by that.

10 (12m 41s):
Like, it's not good when you notice something is bad, especially me as somebody that does not look for it at all.

0 (12m 54s):
If only there were a magic wand, someone could wave over Hollywood to fix this problem. Actually a lot of VFX workers say there is one, and It looks a lot like a union that's coming up on this episode of Intuit on today Explained,

8 (13m 13s):
Wake up, wake up, wake up. What? Hey, have you not

0 (13m 17s):
Heard today? Explained is back. I'm Sean Ramas and today we're bringing you an episode of the Intuit podcast I recently guested hosted in which we tried to figure out why visual effects in so many big budget movies look bad. I asked Vulture reporter Chris Lee to give me a day in the life of a visual effects artist.

2 (13m 37s):
I don't wanna say it's doom and gloom across the board because there are positive experiences to be had, but by and large these workers are gig economy workers. They might have a temporary position at a VFX house. The studios farm out the work to outside vendors. They don't have dedicated teams of people inside the studio doing this work. So they find outside contractors and these houses employ these workers on gig by gig basis. Sometimes they pay them by projects, sometimes they pay them by the month or by the week or by the day.

6 (14m 9s):
I was working these long, insane hours without any kind of coverage for health. And so I remember when that project was over and you know, the vendor that I was working for thanked us for our job. Well done. Congratulations. You did it. We made the deadline. Here's your check. Good luck finding your next job. And like, you know, take care.

2 (14m 39s):
And they're also not unionized, unlike

0 (14m 41s):
Writers, directors, producers, et cetera.

2 (14m 44s):
Unlike the person handing a wrench to the key grip on the set of a movie. Everyone else below the line in Hollywood is unionized except for VFX workers, which is astonishing.

6 (14m 58s):
I have to say that most union workers, whenever I tell them that I'm not union, they are shocked because they, everyone assumes that we're in a union. Cause the post team is in the union, the camera departments, you know, in the union, writers Union actors Union, everyone's union.

2 (15m 22s):
I mean, given how important they are, they're key part of the food chain and they are not unionized. So they have no health benefits, they have no paid overtime, they have no retirement plans, unlike just about everybody else in the movie making ecosystem. But ever since the pandemic, to go back to your question, it's work from home. So you'll have dozens of workers working Remotely and zooming in and basically the studio farms out scenes and these workers will get the specs and they'll look at the pages in the script and then they'll have to sort of figure out how they can devise this visually and come up with something that will have to be approved by the director.

2 (16m 5s):
And it's up to the director to say, yes, I like this, or no, go back to the drawing board. The scourge of this process is what the VFX workers refer to as pixel fucking,

0 (16m 16s):
What does that mean?

2 (16m 18s):
The director doesn't know what they want. All they know is what they don't want and they're, because they're of their unfamiliarity with vfx, they just keep sending the VFX people back to the drawing board over and over and over and nitpicking and saying, I want this, I want that, I want the other thing. But they don't know what they want.

6 (16m 34s):
The worst directors or the ones that didn't know how to direct, they couldn't make a decision. Or maybe there were too many cooks in the kitchen,

2 (16m 43s):
Hence the pixel fucking,

0 (16m 45s):
I mean, you're making it sound like

2 (16m 48s):
A nightmare. It

0 (16m 49s):
Sounds like a nightmare, but it also sounds so counterintuitive. This process you're describing is wildly inefficient, right? You're doing the same work over and over with no clear direction. Just being told what someone doesn't want, not what they do want, that isn't cost efficient.

2 (17m 7s):
No, I'm told time and again, this is a terrible way to work that, you know, if they would hire directors who had a clearer idea of what they wanted going into it, or if they propped them up with people who have extensive experience with this, or you know, studio executives who have a specific idea of what they want there would eliminate a lot of confusion, a lot of budget overruns and a lot of 11th hour production chaos. But in addition to all the other things I've described, you know, like Marvel is the primary offender in this arena because they release three tent pole blockbusters a year, and then on top of that four TV shows each one being about 12 hours of content. So they are king makers in this industry.

2 (17m 49s):
It's an unsustainable business model, basically is what I'm told over and over again by not knowing what they want and by overworking these employees who are already so few in numbers, basically it's a race to the bottom and the films decline in quality, the fans revolt, they earn less money, and the population of qualified workers is that much closer to complete burnout.

0 (18m 12s):
What keeps these VFX artists in the industry if their experiences are so miserable?

2 (18m 20s):
I mean, I'm hearing that there's an exodus from the industry, but the countervailing force is the unionization drive. So as a, as a subset of ii, which is the big union for all the people who are so-called below the line workers that, you know, the the non-famous people, the the people doing the grunt behind the scenes work of filmmaking are attempting to unionize and let these workers know their true value. Let them know the strength that they have. You know, they're crucial part in the movie making ecosystem. And when they finally get what they want, i e health benefits paid over time, retirement, you know, livable wage not being forced to work, you know, 80 hours a week for six months on end, then it's gonna be your dream job.

2 (19m 5s):
I mean, you know, if this gets unionized like the rest of the film industry, this is gonna be a sweet gig. And you know, this is creative work. People love it.

6 (19m 16s):
We are craftspeople, you know, like while we might not do it the old fashioned way with our hands and building sets and puppets, you know, it still comes from our traditional kind of training. You know, it's art and science.

2 (19m 36s):
People are proud of what they do. De aging. Nick Fury in an Avengers movie is just inherently cooler than de aging Robert De Niro and the Irishman. You just get more cool points. So people love what they do. They, yeah, and they work really hard. Audiences love these movies. They're huge hits, so they want their name on it. I mean, I think that that's one of the main reasons why people tolerate so much nonsense in order to, to enact this work.

0 (20m 7s):
I guess I wonder, Chris, if there's a world in which we can solve all of these problems because you know, it's easy to look at Avatar the way of water and say like, why can't everything look like this? That being said, you know, James Cameron is one of the most experienced directors in the history of cinema, especially in the history of visual effects. He's famously hard to work with and there's not a lot of people with his level of talent and experience. So even if you could make conditions better for visual effects artists, you don't have a dozen, two dozen, three dozen directors who can handle the work at that level.

0 (20m 50s):
Is there really gonna be a day where everything kind of works as it ideally could?

2 (20m 58s):
Okay, so forgive me for going back to Marvel, which is my bug bear. That's my white whale as a reporter and I've been on this beat. They have the money to pay for more time and more resources to make the VFX better. They could pay for more people, they could make these lives not miserable in making these movies. Outside of that, they could hire competent producers to Institute a quality control project by project, let's say surround them with a strike force that that has the wherewithal to make sure that everyone has everything that they need, enough time, enough personnel, the money that these movies make, it's not like they're hurting for it, it's just on a balance sheet.

2 (21m 40s):
They want to say, you know, this is how much money we spent and this is how much money we made, yay us. If you diverted a little profit and put it towards the VFX workers, you wouldn't have this crisis situation where everyone's becoming alcoholics and getting burned out

0 (21m 54s):
And we get better movies.

2 (21m 55s):
The fans get better movies. Exactly. Sean

1 (22m 11s):
Chris

0 (22m 12s):
Lee is a senior reporter at Vulture. Read him at Vulture dot com. You also heard from a visual effects artist named Maggie. She also volunteers on the advisory council of the Entertainment Union. Azi. Again, this was a rebroadcast or a re podcast of Intuit Vulture and New York magazine's Pop culture podcast. Sam Sanders is the host I was guest hosting while he went to pay his respects to the Queen in England. He got tickets to see Beyonce. You can find Intuit wherever you listen to your podcasts. They drop episodes on Tuesdays and Fridays. Check it out. Intuit's Travis Larchuk and Jordana Hochman made this episode with help from today Explains s Petros Vultures.

0 (22m 58s):
Chris Lee reached out to Marvel Studios for comment and the team at Intuit did two mums. The word over at Marvel.