0 (0s):
It's an, I explained I'm Sean. Rama's from, I'm here with Noel king, but she's in Budapest, Hungary where weirdly there was an American conservative political conference happening.

1 (11s):
Yeah. The conservative political action conference is having kind of a franchise event here. I was very excited about it. Listen to a couple of these C pack themes or panels, Sean, Western civilization under attack culture wars in the media. The father is a man. The mother is a woman. There's not a single panel that I can see about free markets or small business or lower taxes.

0 (35s):
It sounds like a new kind of American republicanism.

1 (39s):
Yes, exactly.

0 (41s):
So how was the conference? Was it a weird scene?

1 (43s):
Can I play you something? Yes. May

2 (45s):
I ask a follow up please? No followups.

0 (50s):
What's going on?

1 (51s):
I got kicked out of pack.

0 (53s):
You got kicked out of

1 (54s):
Seatback Hungary.

4 (56s):
That's enough. Thank you.

6 (1m 0s):
This episode is brought to you by Blackstone at Blackstone. Investing is about more than just capital it's backing, visionary entrepreneurs and business leaders accelerating the growth of their companies. It's supporting scientists, discovering life saving treatments by investing in research and it's helping companies reduce emissions to create a more sustainable future at Blackstone. Investing is about accelerating growth for good visit blackstone.com/learn more.

7 (1m 30s):
This episode is brought to you by 100% pure New Zealand. New Zealand's unique spirit is defined by a connection between land and people discover Nelson, Tasman and enchanting region of artisans and natural beauty experience. The town of Chi codas abundance, sea life, and culinary delights. Then transport yourself to the bay of plenty home to geothermal features and rich Marty culture. New Zealand is now open to us travelers. Visit new zealand.com to learn more

1 (2m 7s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king and I got kicked out of pack Hungary today. Explain producer miles. Brian spent weeks applying for press credentials for SeaPak email. He got no response. So we showed up and they told us you were supposed to apply for credentials for SeaPak, but we did no dice. So anyway, I strolled in and came upon a press conference. Excuse

8 (2m 33s):
Me. Are you taking questions from the press?

1 (2m 35s):
See PAC chair, Matt slap was talking about freedom.

9 (2m 38s):
So I have a question for Mr. <inaudible>. My name is Noel king

1 (2m 41s):
I'm from the answer. My question

10 (2m 42s):
Often the American government feels it's its job to dictate to other countries.

1 (2m 48s):
And then I was ejected from SeaPak Hungary. Next day, same deal. Couldn't it stroll. In this time, there was too much security. Other reporters were outside too. There was an American representative of SeaPak outside who told us Hungarian conference, Hungarian rules,

11 (3m 8s):
Operational decision,

1 (3m 9s):
Anyway, freedom or something. Of course, the point of the SeaPak conference is the ideas. I had arranged an interview with two men who were going to be at SeaPak and I got a hold of them before they vanished inside each fund. Kish is Hungarian. He's the executive director of the Danube Institute, which is a conservative think tank in Budapest. Gladden pap is American. He's an associate professor of politics at the university of Dallas, and he spending a year in Budapest on a fellowship. These are ideas, guys. They are not politicians. And they're a particular type of conservative as you're going to hear. They're not the type that wants free markets and small government. They want the government involved in our lives.

1 (3m 51s):
One example, Hungary wants a bigger population. So the government gives loans and tax breaks and other benefits to Hungarians and gets more generous. The more kids you have <inaudible> thinks Hungary can teach that Gladden thinks the us should learn it. What is the purpose of the SeaPak conference as far as you're concerned?

12 (4m 11s):
Well, the Republican party has always been, you know, more individualistic party. It, it focuses on, you know, lowering tax rates, making gestures toward traditional family structures and maybe engaging in foreign interventions. Hungarian conservatism, European conservatism is very different. There's a strong social welfare state tradition in Europe, but in Hungary that's been turned toward supporting traditional families and really supporting their own conservative voter base, I guess. So it represents a different kind of conservatism, different kind of approach to politics. That's less individualistic. And I think that that is causing a lot of American conservatives to come over and let me see what's going on.

1 (4m 55s):
I imagine there's another type of American conservative. That's a little freaked out by this. The idea of the Republican party, the traditional Republican party kind of lining up behind the idea of a social welfare state. I mean, this is the party of free markets. Am I out of the loop?

12 (5m 11s):
No, you're right. Look, I think there are some elements of the Hungarian conservative policy that are immediately appealing to American conservatives. Like, you know, Trump talks about building a wall and you know, Hungary in 2015 actually did build a wall on, on its Southern border. So there are some obvious overlap there, but you're right. The, these, you know, programs that support families and Hungary involve amounts of money that would probably make some Democrats blush in the, in the United States. I think that some American conservatives have started to realize that their earlier policy of supporting whatever big corporations do isn't working in their interest anymore, that's causing some tension within the party because the old donor base that, that drove the policies, the 1980s and 1990s is, is still there.

12 (6m 1s):
But, you know, we live at a time in the United States now where young people are having trouble imagining purchasing a house. And so when you look at the Hungarian profoundly policy, it's really about enabling people to make that first step into a, you know, responsible homeownership or building or expanding a house. And so I think there is a lot of new interest in what that looks like among American conservatives,

1 (6m 29s):
Prime minister, Victor Orban calls, Hungary, a Christian democracy is fun. What does this mean?

13 (6m 35s):
Well, I think a lot of people confuse this weird, you know, Hungary being a Christian state and that's not the same. I think he's always talking about Hungary and broadly speaking Europe, being a continent, a country, which is based on Christian values, which most of the Appalachians Chevy's people might not be, you know, going people. They might not be overt religious in their everyday life, but still, if you look at the actual statistics, even in rolled in Europe, whereas about 70, 80% of people who identify themselves as Christians and my advocating Christian democracy, I think he's more looking at visa, our shared values, which we have to protect, which we have to try to support.

13 (7m 17s):
And this might be an odd one at a time to liberal Democrats, CV

1 (7m 20s):
Prime minister, Orban, and fetus, his party have changed some of the laws in Hungary so that they make life more difficult for LGBTQ people. There is a law that prevents the teaching of anything that involves homosexuality in schools. American listeners will be very familiar with this from Florida and from the United States. But I think the overarching criticism is Christianity. Okay, fine. But if you're using Christianity to make laws and policies that disadvantaged or even persecuted LGBTQ people, you've got a real problem. What do you think?

13 (7m 58s):
I think that you might save at best some discrimination against them and BTQ people, but in Hungary, homosexuals can actually live in a civil partnership and have 99% of the same rights as people who are married.

1 (8m 12s):
The United States that reads as discrimination among many people that reads us discrimination in your mind. Is that not discrimination?

13 (8m 21s):
It's hard to say. I think here because in our constitution and because most of the people believe that marriage is between a man and a woman. If you do not have to feel about versus overtly discriminating against these people, because they can still have the civil partnership and they can still have, as I said, 99% of the same rights and benefits, as let's say, ordinarily heterosexual couples

1 (8m 44s):
Loud. And I want to get the American perspective on this because you know that in the United States, what we might call marginalized groups, or once marginalized groups, LGBTQ people would be included in that they have fought to get rights. They have fought to be treated equally. And here we are in hungry, where is fun has just said, you might call this a little bit discriminatory. It's a minority of people who are being discriminated against with a particular policy, but those people are still part of the country. They're still part of Hungarian society or American society. Isn't democracy about pluralism.

12 (9m 22s):
I think it's clear that, you know, most Americans want to live in a fair and pluralistic society, but I think it's become clear over time. That the question is what are the basic forms of family that are in the driver's seat? To be honest, I think a lot of American conservatives and just ordinary American people feel that some very, very small groups of sexual minorities have maybe had an outsized impact on the way that education is undertaken and maybe some other elements of public life. So Hungary has a different approach.

12 (10m 2s):
You know, it, it is establishing a norm that the family is constituted of a mother and a father. Let's be honest. This was the norm in the Western world until approximately seven to 10 years ago. So it's not like a, a big stretch or something. That's a completely strange,

13 (10m 20s):
I think in liberal democracies now, actually it's more like the tyranny of the minorities. I mean, in America, you had states where you had popular referendums about this, and most of these states voted against same-sex marriage. And then you took it out to the Supreme court, which we all know is an unelected body and very approved that yes, you can have same-sex marriage in my mind, that's undemocratic

1 (10m 46s):
Glad. And as an American from a country where checks and balances really are part of what we do well or what historically we have done well where our constitution is sacred in a lot of ways, you've been living in Hungary. You're aware of the criticisms that Victor Orban has too much power in too many areas. Do you see that at all? Are you willing to see that at all?

12 (11m 10s):
And I grew up in Arkansas, let's look at Arkansas today. If the Republicans win every seat in the Arkansas house of representatives, if they win every district, then there are no Democrats in the house of representatives. If fetus wins all districts, which it didn't, there are going to be seats for the opposition in parliament, from an American standpoint, America is much more, potentially much more majority Marian in particular states. There's this proportional representation thing, which is hard to understand, but even if fetus were to win every district in the, in the country, there would be a large number of seats reserved for the opposition.

1 (11m 49s):
I was reading Viktor Orban, inaugural speech. The one he gave after he won the election quote, the suicidal waves of the Western world belonged to the picture of the war. Torn decade ahead of us. I see. As such as suicide attempt, the great European population exchange program, which wants to make up for the lacking or missing European Christian children with adults, migrants arriving from other civilizations. This is replacement theory. I imagine you're both aware that last weekend, a young man in Buffalo, New York walked into a supermarket and shot and killed 10 people. He was deliberately targeting black people.

1 (12m 30s):
This young man was a devotee of this idea that white Americans, white people are being replaced with minorities. I hear the prime minister of Hungary saying something that is effectively replacement theory. We are at SeaPak Tucker Carlson will be beaming in soon. Tucker Carlson, also a big proponent of replacement theory. How do you not hear a statement like that from the prime minister of this country or from Tucker Carlson, a fellow attendee and not really feel like there's something wrong here?

12 (13m 3s):
Well, I think that Hungary is a country with a unique history that really does need to preserve it. It's traditional nation. If Hungary changes, then Hungary no longer exists. It's not,

1 (13m 18s):
It becomes Germany. It becomes France. It changes. It becomes another European country.

12 (13m 23s):
That's not a category. Yeah.

13 (13m 27s):
Is that good? And you know, if you don't want that then is isn't it our right to you don't want it. So Hungary is a small nation. You be surrounded with Slavic people, German people, even in the middle ages or the 18th century. You always had these poems literature verse, which were talking about how hungry we'll disappear, you know, will be washed away by the Slavic wave. You might think that this is, you know, something from history it's not longer important, but I think most Hungarians still think it is important. And they would like to preserve this culture and heritage

1 (14m 8s):
Coming up next. We bring what we've learned in Hungary to a colleague at Fox. Who's been watching this country for years.

14 (14m 29s):
Alex corral is one of over 70,000 Google career certificate graduates.

15 (14m 33s):
It's a Google career certificate program completely changed the trajectory of my life. I've always been interested in computers, but I never thought I could turn this into a career. Anytime I got a little break, I just pop open the course on my phone that allowed me to have that path into a career that I'm passionate about.

14 (14m 50s):
Train online for in demand in it, UX design, data analytics, project management, and more visit grow.google/certificates.

16 (14m 59s):
Facebook connects people. It's what they do. And they know real meaningful connections happen on safe, secure platforms. That's why they build tools that give you more control and help keep you safe online like privacy checkup, access your information and their industry leading AI that detects harmful content faster. Learn more about how their tools protect their communities and the work ahead at about.fb.com/taking action.

1 (15m 33s):
All right, Zach, can we just start with a heavy sigh about Hungary, Zach Beecham, my partner in size senior correspondent at Fox I'm in a coworking space in Budapest because the internet at my hotel betrayed me. And I'm glad that we've got you on the line because you've been reporting on Hungary for years, and I've been here for a few days, and I want you to describe what you think is going on in this country.

18 (15m 59s):
You know, the short answer is that Hungary is the premier international model for democratic backsliding and a consolidated democracy. That sounds like a little bit political science jargon-y broken down. What it means is Hungary is, is a truly striking case of a democracy sliding backwards into some kind of authoritarian system.

1 (16m 21s):
That's some kind of actually that I've been really struggling with because I hear authoritarianism. And I think, I think secret police, I think there are certain things I can't say in public and every Hungarian I talked to, whether they were critical of prime minister, Victor Orban, or not kind of made it a point to say, incidentally, I can say whatever I want, but is that authoritarianism or is that something different?

18 (16m 44s):
I had the same experience you did in Hungary when, when I'm there, right, is that people will just we'll talk very freely, but does not mean that there's actual freedom of speech in the country. If you are a media magnet who wants to run a media outlet, that is critical of the government, either you're going to be marginal or you're going to be destroyed, the government will audit you repeatedly. They will hound you by making sure you don't get ad revenue. They will ensure that your competitors get certain advantages, their government friendly competitors. And this pattern has repeated over and over again to the point where depending on whose estimate you buy between 80 and maybe even upwards of 90% of all media in the country is owned by the government and its cutouts.

18 (17m 28s):
So it is an authoritarian system that is designed to mimic certain freedoms. The democratic countries have, and to make people think that they actually have them. It's a whole part of the legitimation strategy that Orban has employed.

1 (17m 42s):
For some time you've been making the argument that Orban ism, Viktor Orban style is creeping the United States, creeping or button ism. If I may. And I want to talk about one figure in particular, whom you've written about Florida, governor Ron DeSantis, what has Rondi Santas done that reminds you of Victor Orban? What's the American analog here.

18 (18m 4s):
The best way to think about this is the whole saga involving Florida's, don't say gay law and the subsequent fight with the Disney corporation. Now this law is very similar to a Hungarian law passed about a year prior to the American law.

19 (18m 21s):
European commission has urged hungry to repeal the law, but Budapest says EU efforts to overturn. It will be in vain. Insisting the measure is there to protect children.

18 (18m 31s):
Some things that I've seen suggested the American law was literally inspired by or balms law, which was an attempt to curtail the speech rights of LGBT individuals. There's this element of the use of social policy and socially conservative ideas as a means of cracking down on individual liberties and making it difficult for your cultural opponent and your political opponents to express themselves in public spaces. But then afterwards what's potentially even more striking is that when Disney, which is obviously a very big company in Florida, protested to Santas, decided to retaliate by attempting to strip their special tax privileges in a place called the Reedy Creek improvement district, where Disney basically functions as a mini governments, Florida revoked that basically in direct retaliation.

20 (19m 19s):
This state is governed by the interests of the people of the state of Florida. It is not based on the demands of California corporate executives.

18 (19m 30s):
That is classic Orban is the idea that what you do is you take a regulatory policy that was designed for other reasons, namely encouraging economic development and boosting the sort of welfare of people in a particular part of Florida and using it to punish a corporation that speaks out that is, I think the essence of, of Orban style of rule is twisting government powers.

1 (19m 55s):
Obviously there is a certain type of Republican that is looking at Hungary and is very interested in what Victor Orban is doing, how he's done it. Victor Orban, very famously sort of consolidated power in all of these different areas. The judiciary, the media, he rewrote the constitution. These are things that you can't do in the United States. Nobody's going to come along, throw out the constitution, rip it up, write a new one and say, these are the new laws. And so some of this concern that maybe America is drifting toward a hungry lake model, seems really overwrought to me. Where do you come down on this?

18 (20m 34s):
The concern to me is not that Donald Trump comes in and a second term. And all of a sudden he is doing everything that Orban has done on the federal level. I really worry about people like DeSantis, employing these kinds of powers because states have incredible amounts of power to change the electoral system, to make life difficult for people who live there and disagree with our policies. And it is possible in 21st century America, that you could get a version, not of the aggressive, basically naked kind of authoritarianism, but a more subtle Hungarian version cropping up in certain states.

18 (21m 17s):
And you've already seen warning signs of that, not just in Florida, but also I think most notably, Wisconsin and North Carolina, who are two of the real Republican innovators on figuring out how to undermine a democratic system from within.

1 (21m 29s):
What do you say to someone who makes this argument, Zach, this is just Americans looking abroad the way they always do. You're mad. You're upset because it's Republicans doing it. But if, if liberals do this with Sweden, you don't go and write a piece for box saying, we should be worried about this,

18 (21m 44s):
To which I say our elections competitive in Sweden, our elections competitive in Norway. Yes, they are our elections competitive and hungry. No, they're not the opposition. As we just saw in the election of April this year was not competing on a fair playing ground. They had no real chance to win. And when you look to a country like that, it's just categorically different than it is looking to a country like Sweden, because you're talking about a country, that's pioneering a model for democratic destruction. And the means by which it accomplishes these things are inextricably intertwined with its social conservatism. The conservatism is used as a pretext for power grabs. And so when you're looking to model that what you are modeling is a playbook for authoritarianism.

18 (22m 29s):
It's not just social conservative policies, right? And there are certain policies that if you want to take from Hungary, like subsidies for families, right? I, I, I have no problem with that, but lots of countries subsidize families and provide superior childcare options to what we have in the United States. Why do you pick that country? Why the one that also happens to be pretty much the European union's only authoritarian government

1 (22m 54s):
In 25 years with the way the United States is going with its democracy, feeling a little shaky in our lifetimes, just the United States look more like Hungary, or does the United States stay the United States. We know

18 (23m 12s):
Something kind of like Hungary is not implausible. You couldn't imagine any kind of top-down electoral rigging in the way that you get in Hungary. But what you could imagine is a basically successful attempts to change enough states into Hungary like statelets or fiefdoms where national elections are no longer meaningfully competitive, or at least Democrats are playing on such an unlevel playing field. They base, they almost never get to wield power effectively, especially given Republican control over the courts. That's not inconceivable. It's also not inevitable, right?

18 (23m 54s):
It depends. Depends on what Democrats choose to do. It depends on if Republicans continue down the path that they are on. And what I do think we should be is alarmed, alarmed at the similarities between the situation and alarm that in a country that has a much longer and much more robust tradition of democratic governance and Hungary does that. You're starting to see enough similarities that we could maybe think about ourselves at being in the same situation as Hungary, right before Orban took over and authoritarian eyes. The system,

1 (24m 30s):
Zach Beecham, senior correspondent at box cussing them. Today's show was produced by miles Bryan and Talema shop. It was edited by Jolie Myers and Matthew Collette. It was fact checked by Tori Dominguez and Laura Bullard, and it was engineered by pole Mount Z and a FEMA Shapiro I'm Noel king it's today explained.