0 (0s):
Streaming only on pecan John Cameron Mitchell is Joe exotic. Welcome to Kate McKinnon as Carol basket, I have to kill them. Now, I ain't going to do that. Witnessed the origin of America's wildest Hughes. We're ready

1 (17s):
To roll.

0 (18s):
America is going to love you. The story, you know is only half the tale. I really think he's an evil Joe versus Carol, a brand new series streaming. Now only on peacock.

2 (31s):
This podcast is brought to you by seed invest seed. Invest helps make startup fundraising efficient by allowing founders to plug into a network of over 640,000 investors. No matter your industry or vertical, if you're a startup founder, thinking about your next round of funding seed invest provides the platform, tools and expertise. You need to take your growth to the next level. Visit seed, invest.com/raise to get started or refer a founder. Who's building big things. That's seed invest.com/r a I S E

1 (1m 20s):
Madam speaker, the president of the United States,

4 (1m 25s):
President Joe Biden delivered his very first state of the union. Last night. It was the first pandemic state of the union. Believe it or not

1 (1m 34s):
Last year, COVID-19 kept us apart this year. We're finally together again tonight.

4 (1m 42s):
He had to talk about inflation.

1 (1m 45s):
I think I have a better idea to fight inflation, lower your costs, not your wages,

4 (1m 52s):
But he spent a whole lot of time talking about Ukraine and Russia.

1 (1m 57s):
Six days ago, Russia's Vladimir Putin sought to shake the very foundations of the free world thinking he can make it bend to his menacing ways, but he badly miscalculated

4 (2m 11s):
Biden shouted out. His sanctions said he was crippling Russian banks investigating Russian oligarchs, supplying military aid to Ukraine. He said everything, but the United States will join Ukraine to help defeat Russia. In fact, he said the opposite.

1 (2m 27s):
Well, let me be clear. Our forces are not engaged and will not engage in the conflict with Russian forces in Ukraine, our forces not going to Europe to fight Ukraine, but to defend our NATO allies in the event that Putin decides to keep moving west

4 (2m 46s):
Biden just got the country out of one forever war. And he clearly isn't trying to get the country into another one, but a lot of people are struggling with that, that, that nagging feeling that the world is leaving Ukraine all alone to fight tyranny. We've heard this question over and over from listeners and friends and family. Why isn't anyone going to fight alongside Ukraine?

5 (3m 10s):
Well, the two word answer is nuclear weapons.

4 (3m 13s):
We asked Zach Beecham at Vox to help us understand the answer. Russia

5 (3m 18s):
Has them. In fact, they have about 6,000 of them Russia together with the United States control 90% of the world's nukes and a war between the two of them could very well mean. And I want to be really, really clear about this. I'm not being hyperbolic a us Russia nuclear war would be an extinction level event most likely. So the reason that the U is not getting involved as much as its sympathizes with the Ukrainian plate, is that any direct conflict between the United States and Russia risks, probably an accidental escalation into world war three and nuclear war. Nobody wants that, but when you get into a shooting war, things can spiral out of control very quickly, and the risks are way too high for anyone to seriously contemplate them.

4 (3m 59s):
And that just isn't a deterrent for the United States. That's a deterrent for any NATO nation, right? Because the whole deal with NATO is if one country goes, we all go

6 (4m 9s):
Correct. And this was the guarantee that if Stalin or Khrushchev had attacked in the darkest days of the cold war, the United States would come again across the Atlantic to protect Europe and the group

5 (4m 21s):
That has happened one time after September 11th, it has never happened in the context of a major land power war between major powers, because the whole point of NATO is to deter a conflict, right though. So NATO exists, not because the U S is envisioning a war with Russia or some kind of aggressive invasion or wants one to happen. It's because it wants to stitch together a bunch of Western powers and did during the cold war to present a United front, to prevent Russia from thinking, or then the Soviet union from thinking he could take part of Europe. NATO has expanded after the end of the cold war because a lot of countries in Eastern Europe were concerned about Russia invading them even after the Soviet union, because Russia has a long history of imperialism that predated Soviet times

7 (5m 9s):
Today, we proudly welcome Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, and Slovenia. We welcome them into the ranks of the north Atlantic treaty organization.

5 (5m 29s):
And it turns out Ukraine is now showing why those fears were quite valid

8 (5m 33s):
Alia regarding the future Alliance, our aspirations and missions, you know them perfectly well. We have some desire in our country. And in addition to this, we have a war in the east. Yes, we would like to join NATO and it will protect our integrity real quick.

5 (5m 50s):
Regardless. The entire situation is extremely combustible one and any kind of direct conflict between NATO and Russian troops is, is too dangerous to contemplate. But one thing I really do want to say about this is the United States and its allies are doing an astonishing amount right now, the degree and the severity of economic sanctions that have been imposed on Russia. And the amount of military aid going to Ukraine is, is not a nothing, right? It's not a us and a Western world staying out of the conflict. These sanctions are devastating Russia's economy.

9 (6m 26s):
So more details on the economic moves taken over the weekend against Russia. The us Canada and European allies are cutting off key Russian banks from the swift global banking system. The move is seen as the harshest financial sanction imposed so far on Russia.

10 (6m 45s):
Some assets within Russia, central bank are being frozen, a move made in coordination with

11 (6m 51s):
Mine's coming fast and thick really quickly moving situation. But I do want to get your initial thought on this bank of Russia. Again, their key rate is moving to 20%, had been in 9.5%. They're saying that this is necessary to make deposits attractive

12 (7m 4s):
With the ruble sinking against the dollar foreign reserves frozen and a ban on foreign dealings with Russian businesses, Francis finance minister this morning saying the west intends to collapse. Russia's economy don't have that much money. This woman tells me the ATM didn't work for her, but she was able to line up and get cash from the table.

5 (7m 20s):
It seems that their entire financial system is on the brink of collapse right now.

4 (7m 24s):
And it's not just the United States imposing these sanctions. A lot of people are getting on board, including, you know, notoriously neutral, Switzerland.

5 (7m 33s):
Like this is a United Europe in a way that we've never seen

13 (7m 37s):
For the first time ever. The European union will finance the purchase and delivery of weapons and other equipment to a country that is under attack. This is a watershed.

14 (7m 50s):
Germany has backed down on an initial refusal to send weapons, to support Ukraine as it battles. The Russian invasion. Berlin has now agreed to a major armaments delivery, including anti-tank weapons, surface to air missiles and rocket propelled grenades. The policy shift brings Germany into line with other Western allies, supplying weapons to Ukraine.

15 (8m 11s):
Yeah, we'll invest more than 2% of our GDP in defense every year from now on

5 (8m 18s):
Like, I want to be clear. This is Germany rearming, a tectonic shift in global politics that at any other time would have been completely unthinkable and get it's happening. It's happening under a left-wing turban government. Clique

15 (8m 32s):
<em></em> is a catastrophe for Ukraine, but it will also turn out to be a catastrophe professionals advice.

5 (8m 39s):
And one poll showed that 79% of Germans approve rebuilding the military. And that is directly a result of Putin's actions.

4 (8m 49s):
That being said, all of these sort of crippling sanctions and, and historic sanctions coupled with military aid to Ukraine, isn't deterring Russia. They're not cowering. They're doubling down and trying to enter the capital. How does this escalate for all those countries coming to Ukraine's aid right now? So

5 (9m 11s):
There are a few things that could be done in terms of escalation. There are generally more ways to step up sanctions. You can start targeting the Russian oil and gas sector though. That's a mutually assured destruction scenario because then oil and gas get a lot more expensive in Europe. And in the U S

16 (9m 27s):
National energy agency says all 31 member countries have agreed to release 60 million barrels of oil from their strategic reserves.

5 (9m 36s):
On the military front, you can have a scenario where not only is the west providing military assistance to the Ukrainian military, but helping create the conditions under which after a Russia successfully occupies Ukraine. If it, in fact, does that, that there's a Ukrainian insurgency that's well supplied. So if the west wants to essentially bankroll the creation of a Ukrainian insurgency, it could. And very well might, there's an active debate about this in the Biden administration. Right now, that's a few in the event that Russia wins, right? Which is still seems very likely given how much they outgun the Ukrainians, but it's not inevitable.

5 (10m 17s):
And if you crane continues at strong military performance so far, and the Russians collapse in a way that seems unthinkable just a few days ago, then Western intervention will play a significant role in that. And future escalation won't be needed. Now Russia could escalate in all sorts of ways. And that's the really scary scenario. It's not outside the realm of possibility, Russian use of, of what are called tactical nuclear weapons, which are a little bit smaller than the big city destroyers they're used to thinking of they're designed for battlefield use to annihilate, large numbers of enemy troops in one fell swoop.

17 (10m 54s):
Why not? I show it would Putin really use them. He practiced a week ago, overseeing exercises of Russia's strategic deterrence forces, typically unsubtle hints to America and NATO, not to stand at his weight over Ukraine

5 (11m 13s):
That could happen. And Ukraine, if they feel like they're losing in conventional

4 (11m 16s):
Terms, is that why I've loaded mirrors? Zelensky is asking that the U S and NATO declare parts of Ukraine, a no fly zone,

15 (11m 26s):
As far as a no fly zone is concerned. It would help a lot. This is not about dragging NATO countries into war. The truth is everyone has long since been dragged into a war. And definitely not by Ukraine, but by Russia.

5 (11m 39s):
No. So that's to tip the balance of the conventional war. You know, that office episode where Michael Scott stands in the middle of the office and he declares, I declare, Right? Like people think of no fly zone is like that. You declare no flies though. And it does not work that way. What, what it is is that you put your own aircraft in that area and you say, you cannot fly here. And if you do fly in here, we will shoot you down. You police the flight zone, correct. If the westward word impose a no flies in over Ukraine, it could very decisively tip the balance in Ukraine's favor. And that would be the point of the intervention to defeat the Russian innovation.

5 (12m 21s):
It could, hypothetically, I'm not saying it would, but the Russian loss of the skies and an inability to establish air superiority over the long run would be very, very dangerous for the Russians, but that's why they wouldn't just to see to it, which means it would, it would involve shooting down Russian planes. And that means world war three. It means full on conflict between the NATO Alliance and Russia, and that the risks of that escalating to nuclear conflict. They're not a hundred percent, but they're way, way, way, way, way higher than zero.

5 (13m 1s):
More with Zach

18 (13m 3s):
When we're back

2 (13m 18s):
Equity, crowdfunding has made it possible for startups to raise millions of dollars from hundreds or even thousands of small scale investors seed invest, leverages the awesome power of the crowd to get companies, the financing they need to accelerate their growth and the exposure they need to sustain it. Companies who raised through seed invest have gone on to raise more than one and a half billion in subsequent rounds from some of the biggest names in traditional VC. Great things can happen when innovative companies get in front of a highly engaged audience of over 640,000 investors. Whether you're looking to follow a previous seed round or are swinging for the fences with an eight figure growth round seed, invest can provide the support and expertise you need to navigate the complexities of your race.

2 (14m 5s):
Find out today, if yours is a match for the platform or referred to a founder, who's building big things. Visit seed, invest.com/raise to learn more or apply to raise that's seed, invest.com/r a I S E.

19 (14m 22s):
In the time it takes to listen to this advertisement, your phone will probably vibrate a half dozen times. We're all swimming and notifications from the moment we get out of bed, which makes it extremely difficult to catch and keep anyone's attention. If you're struggling to deliver your messaging to the right people, LinkedIn can help LinkedIn offers a new way to tackle B2B marketing with precise targeting tools that let you deliver a message to super specific audiences down to their job, title, company, name, location, and more. That's why so many different companies across dozens of sectors are relying on LinkedIn businesses like main street, a company that helps venture backed startups, clean tax credits. They increase their annual recurring revenue by a whopping $12 million by advertising on LinkedIn scale, your marketing and grow your business with LinkedIn advertising as a thank you to their customers for helping them grow three times faster than the competition.

19 (15m 16s):
LinkedIn is offering a $100 credit on your next campaign. Go to linkedin.com/marketing to claim your credit. That's linkedin.com/marketing.

4 (15m 28s):
<em></em> Zach, it seems pretty clear that Volodymyr Zelensky could die in this conflict with Russia. He seems pretty clear that that's a potential outcome here. Okay.

5 (15m 48s):
Actually, maybe even a likely one, which is depressing to think about, but it very well could be.

4 (15m 53s):
Is there any chance that Vladimir Putin dies in this conflict?

5 (15m 58s):
Yeah, there is, but probably not in the ways that you're thinking of. Right. It's not like any external power is going to assassinate him.

4 (16m 6s):
It's not like Ukraine is going to like poison him. Yeah.

5 (16m 8s):
That they don't have the capacities to do that. They don't have the international reach to do that. And it's not necessarily clear. That would be a good idea on their part. One possibility is that Putin is an ill-health. We don't actually know very much about his health status. It's been interesting that he's in, in photographs that we've seen of him. And he's been so far away from other Russian leaders that appears to be a fear of COVID like he has an almost paranoid fear of COVID. Does that speak to the fact that he has some kind of complicating health concern that maybe would make a COVID infection more dangerous for a man who's 69 years old? I don't know. Like, I, I genuinely don't know this is pure speculation and nobody knows outside of Putin himself, probably what the actual reality is.

5 (16m 57s):
The things we can talk about more concretely in terms of what happens when a dictator's war goes badly. If the Ukraine war continues to go badly. And again, that's a big F one of two things happens. There's a popular revolt, or there's some kind of elite revolt and a military coup I would look to two things. First, the anti-war protests in Russia, They're notable for a country that has been hiding the existence of the war on all of its propaganda channels, calling it a special military operation and trying to downplay the significance of the conflict.

5 (17m 39s):
And second for government, that's like super oppressive, really intensely good at suppressing dissent and marginalizing opposition leaders that there's such a level of popular discontent suggests that if this war remains bogged down, if Russia can't make swift progress, you can imagine a, a real grassroots challenge to the poop regime, ground people. The second scenario I think has to do with political and military leaders in the Kremlin. It is not inconceivable that a lot of people high up in the Russian government didn't actually believe that Putin was going to invade.

20 (18m 20s):
So that I'm about to go into Ukraine is not in Russia's interests. Keeping in mind are the collateral damage, which is likely to happen after such an operation. But apparently, you know, my cost benefit analysis did not coincide with that in the Kremlin. So I had to wake up to a new reality.

5 (18m 47s):
We know that some of the troops on the ground thought they were just doing exercises and that they're dragged into this war without a compelling strategic rationale that has crushed the Russian economy and is leading to lots of Russian soldiers dying and the wasting of massive amounts of material for only limited strategic game that you can get a few of them together to say, okay, Putin's lost in, this is a disaster for Russia. It's time for him to go. What we're seeing is a situation that bears the hallmarks of one, in which revolutions and coups happen

4 (19m 26s):
In a scenario where Vladimir Putin is chased out of office by his own people or deposed by his own military. What comes next?

5 (19m 36s):
That's a gigantic question, mark. Really, nobody knows. Right? We're dealing with things that would have seemed impossible just a few months ago, right? The notion that we can even be speaking about an anti Putin uprising or CU, which is still to be clear, like a remote possibility. Yeah. Like that, that just seemed unthinkable to me. So I can't tell you who would come next because if there's a military coup the, the generals in charge are the ones who would be appointing themselves leaders. We can't know that. And advanced likewise, if there's a popular revolution, it depends a lot on the cast of characters who were in charge of those revolutions. And that kind of revolution could bring in.

5 (20m 19s):
I mean, who knows, maybe Alexian of all knew who's currently in prison, who is something of a nationalist, but also more pro-Western than Putin could join the government. Like it's, it's, it's, it's such a remote scenario that it's difficult to forecast with any degree of reliability. It's worth

4 (20m 36s):
Noting here that led me. Putin did step down once, or at least pretended to step away from power to respect term limits in his country and Medvedev over. But Putin was clearly the puppet master. Do you think that as long as this Latimer Putin is alive and in Russia, he will exercise control over its government. Yes. I believe that

5 (21m 0s):
Slightly. I think the most likely outcome of this conflict, I want to underscore this because we've been talking about sort of remote possibilities, a lot nuclear war, a CU revolution. The most likely outcome is that Bladimir Putin stays in office and topples the Ukrainian government successfully. Now how a Russian occupation of Ukraine goes, they can successfully stand up a puppet government there, which appears to be their goal remains to be seen. But the most likely scenario is that Putin continues his, his very tight grasp on power and Russia's military overwhelms Ukraine's. And while there may be anti-war sentiment, it doesn't transform the trajectory of the conflict or change the Russian government.

5 (21m 43s):
But, you know, there is an outside possibility that this leads to something more radical. And frankly, most people wouldn't have predicted a full on war and Ukraine a year ago. So we need to allow for the possibilities of things that seem impossible even while recognizing they're probably unlikely.

4 (22m 2s):
I appreciate you going through these scenarios with us, but as you just said, the likeliest outcome here is despite historic sanctions and historic involvement from countries like Sweden and Switzerland and historic ramping up a military spending in countries like Germany to aid Ukraine, the likeliest outcome here is Russia installing a puppet government in Ukraine and winning essentially, well,

5 (22m 26s):
Not necessarily winning, right? Because then we get into another possibility, which is a Ukrainian insurgency, but a Ukrainian insurgency, as we've seen in Iraq and Afghanistan could be devastating to the Russians. So could trap them in there for years, trying to ensure that their puppet regime has a hold on power.

4 (22m 45s):
We're talking about a quagmire here, like a Russian

5 (22m 47s):
Quagmire. Yeah. I mean, like, I don't think it is the only possible outcome by any stretch of the imagination, but I don't believe that Russia will win in the sense of getting an outcome that it wants. I believe that it will likely vanquish Ukraine on the field of battle and in a conventional struggle. I think it will be ugly. It will be brutal. It'll take a lot longer than Russians wanted it to. And tens of thousands of people will die, but the Russians will likely be able to take control over Ukraine's territory, whether they can hold. It is a separate question.

4 (23m 32s):
Zach Beecham, he's a senior correspondent@foxwritingabouttheworldanddemocracyreadhimatbox.com. Our show today was produced by Heidi Milwaukee edited by me and Matthew Collette engineered by FIM, Shapiro, and fact checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Sean Ramez from this today explained

2 (24m 16s):
This podcast is brought to you by seed invest seed. Invest helps make startup fundraising efficient by allowing founders to plug into a network of over 640,000 investors. No matter your industry or vertical, if you're a startup founder, thinking about your next round of funding seed invest provides the platform tools and expertise. You need to take your growth to the next level. Visit seed, invest.com/raise to get started or refer a founder. Who's building big things. That's seed invest.com/r a I S E.

21 (24m 55s):
This podcast is brought to you by progressive insurance, whether you love true crime or comedy, celebrity interviews or news, you call the shots on what's in your podcast queue. And guess what? Now you can call them on your auto insurance too, with the name, your price tool from progressive. It works just the way it sounds. You tell progressive how much you want to pay for car insurance, and they'll show you coverage options that fit your budget. Get your quote today@progressive.com to join the over 27 million drivers who trust progressive progressive casualty insurance company and affiliates, price, and coverage match limited by state law.