0 (1s):
Laina Maui is almost entirely gone

2 (5s):
Today. It is in ashes. There are portions of structures that are either, you know, tilted over or completely leveled neighborhoods. You see those who were able to evacuate coming back to their homes and sort of going through the rubble, looking for whatever they can find.

3 (27s):
You know, there's things you think you'll always have, you know, like things you think you'll give to your children. You know, pictures, you know, pictures of my parents. Like I I, I grabbed one wedding picture of my parents from my wall and I felt silly doing it 'cause I was like, we're gonna come back. And now it's the only one I have

0 (51s):
Coming up on today. Explained why Laina

PhRMA (54s):
burned. I am so sorry ma'am. I know you need this medicine, but it looks like it's not covered by your insurance. Yeah, unfortunately I had to deny that one. Wait, Who are you? I'm your insurance company's pharmacy benefit manager. I get paid based on the price of a medicine and I don't make as much money off this one. No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by Pharma

7 (1m 31s):
The way. we talk about mental health is changing and that's a good thing. But, while the conversation has shifted, access and insurance haven't caught up.

8 (1m 41s):
We have research that shows mental health care is three to five times more likely to be treated by an out of network provider as opposed to an in network provider.

7 (1m 53s):
So why is it so hard to get insurance to pay? That's next time on the weeds.

2 (2m 11s):
We still know that there are hundreds missing there in Lahaina and unaccounted for cadaver dogs. Sort of roaming the ashes there in Lahaina, trying to identify a as many victims as they can. And those numbers are expected to rise, unfortunately, as in these next coming days.

0 (2m 32s):
Vehi here at Ishi is a general assignment reporter at Hawaii Public Radio in Honolulu.

2 (2m 39s):
Laina was the home to native Hawaiian royalty and it became the capital of the Hawaiian kingdom in 1820. It's also home to the first educational institution west of the Rockies, Laina Luna High School, which was spared in this fire. Laina has changed drastically over the last 150 to 200 years following the establishment of a sugar plantation and the overthrow of the Hawaiian kingdom in 1893. So a pioneer mill was established there in Laina and that sort of changed the landscape of Laina town.

9 (3m 17s):
Within three years there were 20 sugar mills from these modest beginnings, a great industry was to grow.

2 (3m 25s):
It was once full of canals and fish ponds, lots of water right there along the beach front, but that was for the most part, filled in following the arrival of sugar plantations and workers needing a space to live. But also some of those changes came about through that, including the arrival of invasive grasses that we know played a part in the recent fire.

0 (3m 48s):
When did this become a tourist town?

2 (3m 51s):
Following the overthrow of the Hawaiian kingdom in 1893 and then the subsequent arrival of the US military. But also, you know, Hawaii becoming a state in 1959.

10 (4m 4s):
It's made official at the White House. President Eisenhower congratulates, the new congressional representatives of Hawaii in

2 (4m 10s):
Lahaina was sort of ripe for development. So folks wanting to make a little bit of money off of the tropical destination, the beaches. And this was prior to, you know, the state putting together a land use commission to provide a check and, and an oversight on this sort of development. But it sort of ran rampant for those first decades of statehood here in Hawaii.

0 (4m 36s):
Was Maui prepared for wildfires? Looking at it from outside of the state, you get the sense that like there was no preparation in place, but I know often after a disaster it looks that way, but that wasn't really what happened. The

2 (4m 51s):
State Department of Land and Natural Resources did announce in early July that severe drought conditions were impacting the southern and Western coastal areas of Maui. And I remember that because I did the report on it and at the time, state protection Forester Mike Walker said, you know, forecasters continue to predict things will get worse before they get better with an expectation that more severe drought conditions will plague larger areas of the state into late summer, early fall, and even through next winter. Now, whether or not folks sort of heated the advice of this state agency or if state agencies themselves prepared for that is sort of what we will see.

2 (5m 32s):
I think as events unfold and the investigation by the Hawaii Attorney General's office into the decisions and policy and surrounding the West Maui wildfire are brought to light.

0 (5m 42s):
We saw images of people who were caught by surprise, who fled their houses with only a minute or two left. Hawaii does have an emergency messaging system. This was an emergency. How should that have worked? The

2 (5m 56s):
Hawaii Emergency Management Agency did confirm that none of those 80 warning sirens placed around Maui were activated in response to the fire. but they did say that other alert systems were activated, including alerts that were sent to cell phones and through radio and television stations. This is something folks might have remembered recalling the incoming ballistic missile alert that went out to cell phones.

11 (6m 21s):
An employee at Hawaii's Emergency Management Agency pushed the wrong button, not once, but twice, triggering a wave of panic amid tensions over the threat of a nuclear strike from North Korea. But

2 (6m 32s):
The power was out for much of the day Tuesday in La Jaina. And many residents, including folks I've spoken to, have said they never got that warning.

12 (6m 43s):
The State Attorney General now opening an investigation into Maui's alert system after complaints that there wasn't enough warning for people to escape the flames.

2 (6m 51s):
Now Attorney General's office is looking into what really happened. But I, I will add that we do know two lawsuits were filed against Hawaiian Electric, the State's Utility company and its subsidiary, Maui Electric Company seeking class action status. So more litigation is also expected, similar to the cases of folks might remember with the California based utility pg e stemming from the Northern California wildfires a few years ago. So it's still a bit too early to tell

0 (7m 20s):
How do you venture this area will recover. Is this the kind of place where most people have insurance, most people have some extra money to help them through a recovery. What are you hearing in terms of how this city might come back?

2 (7m 35s):
In particular, the local residents and the native Hawaiian community out there in La Hana, some of them may not have the funds to rebuild, but the sort of community solidarity coming in from the other islands in terms of financial donations, goods and services. This community will recover and will rebuild in a way that I think they will feel empowered to have more say in how they rebuild and perhaps fix some of the systemic problems or issues and challenges that has faced this community for, for decades, if not centuries.

0 (8m 13s):
Is what you've been hearing overwhelmingly that people are going to stick it out, that they're convinced that they will be able to stay and recover?

2 (8m 20s):
For myself, yes. As I've spoken to Amina boat captain, similar situation, one of his boats were lost in the fire. His home was lost in the fire. His two young children, a three and five year old, need to now move to the island of Oahu to temporarily enroll in schooling because their schools also burnt down in the fire.

13 (8m 41s):
Most of my employees are homeless now. They're also my really good friends and some of them are with child and it's really hard to see what they're going through and it's like, oh, how do you even stay?

2 (8m 54s):
But he is adamant that he wants to rebuild whatever is necessary to keep his 10 employees in this business home in La Hana. And so I think there is a sense of, of resilience there. But you know, the high cost of living here in Hawaii, not everyone can afford it. And so we will see what sort of aid, government or private will be coming in to help folks rebuild and and remain in Lana.

0 (9m 22s):
Part of the high cost of living is due to a thriving tourism industry, which you've, you've described, you said it's a tourist town. We saw this, this really powerful clip that started circulating this weekend, in which an unnamed resident of Maui tells the B b C,

14 (9m 39s):
The same waters that our people just died in three days ago are the same waters the very next day, these visitors, tourists were swimming in. and that says a lot about where their heart and mind is through all of this and where our heart and mind is though, you don't see our people swimming, snorkeling, surfing. Nobody is having fun in tragedy and continuing their lives like nothing has happened. There is two Hawaii's right now. There is the Hawaii we're living in and the Hawaii they're living in, they're visiting in.

0 (10m 7s):
I wonder if you have any thoughts about whether this is a common sentiment. There is a Maui where people live and there is a Maui for tourists and they are not the same place. And how that might play in here.

2 (10m 18s):
I'd agree with that statement, and it's something for a long time of residents of Lana, but also the indigenous people of, of these islands, the conversations around how dependent do we want to be on tourism moving forward. Many residents, the local and and native Hawaiian are also employees of the tourism industry. It's something we saw during the c Ovid 19 pandemic when the travel ban was up and none of these workers were able to put food on their table.

15 (10m 49s):
When the travel restrictions first started, thousands of hotel workers were furloughed. As time goes on, we're seeing more and more of those furloughs turn into layoffs.

2 (10m 59s):
And I think some in the community are seeing it as that a, an opportunity to have a voice in how we rebuild in La Hana. It will be a complicated and nuanced conversation, but it will be part of the conversation as we rebuild.

0 (11m 15s):
What does the recovery effort look like right now?

16 (11m 19s):
Neighbors helping, neighbors offering everything they can. Food, water, clothing.

2 (11m 24s):
I, I spoke to a Hilo pilot, young man just got his pilot license and decided to take a helicopter over with donated goods to KAA Airport there in Lana. We heard of boat captains on pretty much every island. Kauai, Oahu here, Molokai taking over loads of donated goods and anything that the community needs. I'd say that many of these communities have encountered their own unnatural disasters. I'm thinking of the 2018 eruption of lava on in kilo on the big island for

17 (11m 59s):
Weeks around the clock we watched Kiowa spew 1 billion cubic yards of lava destroying some 700 homes,

2 (12m 7s):
2018 flooding over on the north shore of Kauai. Record

11 (12m 10s):
Breaking rain fell on Kauai last weekend and the governor declared a state of emergency hundreds were stranded and had to be rescued

2 (12m 17s):
Instances where the community didn't question whether or not they were going to wait to help. And so I don't think many of the community members who are lending a hand at this point are wandering where the government is. They know that regardless of of who's helping out, they're gonna jump into it. I think the devastation and the loss and the level and extent of it is something we have not seen and I have not seen throughout my reporting career. And so just that, that magnitude of some of the raw emotions, you know, coming out of, of Laina in the first couple days of the devastation, that will definitely stay with me.

2 (13m 0s):
That sense of loss will stick with me. But I've reported on other disasters here in Hawaii. And the idea of community banding together to help everyone in La Hana get through this is, is possibly about the more inspirational and empowering story that I hope will be reported on in the next few weeks, if not in months.

0 (13m 31s):
Vehi here at Ishi of Hawaii Public Radio coming up, how Maui got hit with a perfect storm.

PhRMA (13m 46s):
I'm so sorry ma'am. I know you need this medicine, but it looks like it's not covered by your insurance. Yeah, unfortunately I had to deny that one. Wait, Who are you? I'm your insurance company's pharmacy benefit manager. I get paid based on the price of a medicine and I don't make as much money off this one. No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

18 (14m 15s):
Basically, the more I talk through this with y'all, the more I am perplexed. I do not know.

Unexplainable podcast (14m 23s):
This week on Unexplainable, we're bringing you a new episode of our game show, unexplainable or not, and we've got three potential mysteries. Mystery one Oh, Mystery two. Oh, that's so cute. And Mystery three Oh my God, stop. I should have been a scientist. Our guest this week is Sam Sanders, host of Vultures Intuit podcast. I'm good at some things. I'm not particularly good at science things, but I love to talk. Sam's gonna try to guess which of these mysteries are still mysteries and which one has actually recently been solved. I'm scared. I don't know if I'm right or wrong To find out. Follow unexplainable for new episodes episode every Wednesday.

21 (15m 17s):
My name is Abby Frazier and I am a climatologist and geography professor at Clark University. And I lived in Hawaii for 12 years and completed my PhD out there. And I spent the last six weeks of the summer based in Hawaii.

0 (15m 35s):
In fact, Abby narrowly missed the fires in Maui. Yeah,

21 (15m 39s):
So the, the fires were just breaking out basically the day that I was flying back to the East coast. So it was, it's, wow, it's been quite a whirlwind to try to keep up with everything and my heart absolutely goes out to Maui.

0 (15m 56s):
Abby, how did the fires in Maui get so bad?

21 (15m 60s):
The fires in Maui are due to several different factors. The number one factor that led these fire to be so severe is the presence of large areas of very flammable, non-native grasses that was combined with very high winds due to a hurricane passing to the south and a high pressure system to the north. So we had very high down slope winds that fueled the fire and caused it to spread quickly. And the other factor here is that they had actually been in drought for the last month or so, and that helped dry out all of those grasses and create the fuels needed for this massive fire that we saw.

0 (16m 44s):
Let's go in reverse order there. So conditions were dry was is Maui in the middle of a drought.

21 (16m 50s):
The entire island of Maui is in abnormally dry or worse conditions. And there's a pretty large part of the island that's actually in severe drought. Drought is actually a pretty normal natural phenomenon that occurs in Hawaii. We have a pretty pronounced dry season from about May to October. So having a drought by itself is not abnormal. But we have found that over the last century, droughts have been getting worse, they've been getting more severe and they've been lasting longer.

22 (17m 20s):
Brown mountains cracked dry land. Hawaii is once again experiencing drought conditions. Portions of each of the Hawaiian islands are impacted, but Maui's being hit the hardest.

0 (17m 32s):
And then the next factor you talked about was high winds caused by a hurricane. I think you're saying a hurricane didn't hit Maui, but it was getting like the, what was it? Getting the tail end of something.

21 (17m 44s):
Hurricane Dora passed, well south of the island, so there was no direct hit. But hurricanes are these deep centers of low pressure and to the north of the islands we have a pretty pronounced high pressure system. And you get a gradient where the wind is moving from high to low and a really strong category four hurricane means that you have this very strong gradient. So winds were moving very quickly and we had pretty incredible wind gusts

23 (18m 15s):
Never anticipated in this state. That hurricane, which did not make impact on our islands, will cause this type of wildfires.

0 (18m 26s):
Okay, so the wind blows the fire and you said the third reason, large areas of non-native grass. What does that mean? How does that contribute to a really bad fire?

21 (18m 37s):
About 25% of Hawaii's land area is covered in non-native grasses and shrubs. Many of them are species from African savannas and they are extremely flammable. They have essentially taken over the fallow plantation lands across Maui and those lands are not being managed the same way as when they were active agricultural plantations. So now you just have these large, large areas of very flammable grasses and sometimes those areas are very close to communities. So to have a wildfire, you need climate, you need an ignition, and you need fuels.

21 (19m 19s):
In this case, with the Maui fires, we had the perfect weather conditions to support that fire. Likely it was the strong winds knocking over power lines that may have contributed to the ignition part. And then what you need is fuel. And these grasses supply the fuels for these fires.

0 (19m 40s):
So Hawaii presumably is prepared for certain kinds of disasters. Why does it seem that Maui was so unprepared for fires?

21 (19m 49s):
Wildfires have been more common in Hawaii in the last few decades, and we've seen some really massive fires that have affected, especially Maui, but also the other islands as well. You know, we have some amazing groups on the ground who have been working to try to reduce fire risk across the landscape.

1 (20m 15s):
There

21 (20m 16s):
Are groups that are working to build fire fuel breaks to help slow down or stop fires. The

22 (20m 23s):
Nonprofit group, team Rubicon brought in military veteran volunteers and equipment to create a fire break that's 545 yards long. They're clearing trees, grass and debris that could service as fuel for a fire.

21 (20m 37s):
A fuel break is essentially an area where you have essentially a gap in vegetation, let's say a road. And in theory, you know, the lack of more fuels, more grasses for that fire to continue. It could hopefully stop the fire. Last

22 (20m 54s):
Year volunteers put in a fire break behind the nurseries in the valley, and now a second one is going in behind the homes of Mariners Cove.

21 (21m 3s):
You have some folks that are using livestock to help graze and bring down those fire fuels. But it's happening without very many resources. And one thing that's really changed in recent years is, is the closure of these plantations.

24 (21m 19s):
It's the end of an era for Hawaii sugar industry. As the final sugar harvest in our state took place on Maui,

21 (21m 27s):
When the plantations were active, if a fire occurred on the landscape, it probably wasn't going to be as bad because you were irrigating a lot of the land, but you also had staff on site who could open the gates and let the firefighters in, they knew where the roads were. Now everything is overgrown and covering just these vast areas. And so it's really, really hard to keep these fires under control.

0 (21m 54s):
And what are the resources that Hawaii needs to deal with this? You said there's a shortage of resources. What exactly would be useful?

21 (22m 2s):
Well, we need, we need a planning process to really identify how to make Hawaii more resilient to wildfire and how to reduce this risk. I, I think it's gonna take dedicated money and supporting the groups that are already doing this work and doing more of this work to reduce the fuels. We can try to bring down these, the number of these grasses on the landscape and it's, it's gonna take effort and, and money put towards this issue. The scale of this problem is just massive because these grasses literally cover a quarter of Hawaii's land area. I mean, wow, it's not like you can take a lawnmower and go and clear these areas out.

21 (22m 46s):
It's really difficult to rain. So you have organizations like the Hawaii, wildfire Management Organization and other nonprofits and, and different agencies that are taking on this work on, on their own. And so some of it is creating different kinds of fuel breaks. That's a really great tactic, but we have to scale it up.

0 (23m 6s):
When you look at what happened in Maui and the conditions that allowed it to happen, are there other environments in the US or elsewhere in the world where you think, oh, that place is prone to this type of wildfire and people may not be paying attention to it, but they should be?

21 (23m 21s):
Definitely other Pacific Islands, just as people may be unaware that Hawaii has a lot of wildfire risk, many Pacific Islands actually experience very severe wildfires.

25 (23m 32s):
Indonesian authorities say satellites have detected 3,600 fires in the region.

21 (23m 37s):
Areas that I work in, in Guam and Palau, they experience fires that burn huge percentages of their land area each year. Year in one really bad El Nino year, I think 10% of the island of Guam burned in one year. So you have these, you know, Savannah grasses and you have populations living on close to these wildfire risk areas on small islands and with hotter and drier conditions in the future. Wildfire risk could increase for a lot of places like this and other places that might not be historically as prone to fire.

21 (24m 20s):
So in terms of the future, this is happening on a baseline of climate change and future projections show that Maui and Hawaii will become hotter in the future. Our dry leeward areas will likely experience more drying in the future. So wildfire risk is, is not fully going away. And. if we continue to, to not actively manage these invasive grasslands across the state, then we can expect fire risk to continue and continue to threaten communities. But I think here where we have a really important opportunity is that we can actually manage these grasslands.

21 (25m 3s):
So that to me is very hopeful. We just need to act.

0 (25m 11s):
That was Abby Frazier. She's a climatologist at Clark University. Today's show was produced by Fiona Petros and Halima Shaw. It was edited by Amina Elsa, David Herman and Christian Ayala were our engineers. Laura Bullard is our fact checker. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.