1 (2s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. In this last long year, Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, invaded Ukraine and started a war that would shatter parts of Eastern Europe. It seemed like a deranged move, and yet Putin told the world exactly why he was doing it.

2 (19s):
I would like to start by saying that the modern Ukraine is completely, was completely created by Russia

1 (25s):
After the Russian Empire collapsed in 1917, some Ukrainians called for independence. They wanted a republic. And for the next 100 plus years, the relationship between Russia, the Soviet Union and Ukraine, has been marked by animosity over Ukraine's desire to be a nation, and Russia's desire for it not to be. Putin says, Ukraine is not a country. Yale historian, Timothy Snyder, who studies Eastern Europe says, yes, it absolutely is. Coming up, we revisit one of our favorite conversations of 2022.

ACLU (60s):
When your rights are under attack, the A C L U shows up. A C L U members, volunteers, lawyers and staff have protected and championed American Civil Liberties for over 100 years. The organization has fought for everything from free speech to voting rights, abortion access, LGBTQ plus equality, and much more. This critical work is fueled by dedicated members who show up with a recurring monthly donation, join them and power the ACLU's. Next victories, become a member with a monthly donation@acu.org slash show up by December 31st.

BetterHelp (1m 38s):
Support for the show today comes from Better Help, which is one of the largest online therapy services in the world. Better Help has matched 3 million people with professionally licensed and vetted therapists. Available a hundred percent online. If you are interested, you can fill out a brief questionnaire and get started, 10% off your first month at Better help.com/explained. Y'all. That is better. H e l p.com/explained

5 (2m 11s):
Today. Explain.

7 (2m 16s):
When we listen to other people's propaganda, it enables us to make exceptions on our own mind.

1 (2m 23s):
That's Timothy Snyder. He's a historian of Eastern Europe at Yale.

7 (2m 27s):
Now, if we listen to what Mr. Putin says about Ukraine, we start to think, oh, there's a loophole here, or there's an excuse there, or there's some reason why we shouldn't be treating the, the country of Ukraine, the state of Ukraine, the people of Ukraine like everybody else. And my point was to say, no, it's, you know, it, it's a state, it's a country, it's a people very much like other peoples. And, and, and, and if anything, you know, more interesting,

1 (2m 50s):
The propaganda you're referring to in part is Russian President Vladimir Putin's claim that Ukraine is not a country that it was entirely created by Russia. What is the argument that he is making?

7 (3m 3s):
I'll address it, but I just, I would first just suggest that it's much more a framing device than it is an argument. You know, if, if like, if I say that, you know, Canada's not a country, it's just a creation of the United Kingdom. It's gonna sound ridiculous if I, but so the technical argument is that when the Soviet Union was created, this is Putin's argument, I'm gonna make it for him. When the Soviet Union was created, a Ukrainian Republic was, was established.

2 (3m 27s):
And as a result of s policy, the Soviet Ukraine was created

7 (3m 31s):
In that sense, Ukraine was created by the Soviet Union,

2 (3m 35s):
That it's Ukraine, created by Vladi Len, he, its creator, an architect.

7 (3m 43s):
Now, there are at least three terribly wrong things about this argument. Number one, the Soviet Union is not the same thing as Russia. It was established deliberately as a non Russians, but as an internationalist project. Hmm. Number two, he's got it completely backwards because the Soviet Union was created as a federation of national units, precisely because everybody, including internationalists, like Lennon, understood in 19 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, that the Ukrainian question was real. A century ago. This was not actually a big debate. Even on the far left, several years of watching people being willing to fight and die for Ukraine, convinced the communists who founded the Soviet Union, that there was a real question here and they had to have a real answer for it.

7 (4m 32s):
So in that sense, it would be truer to say Ukraine created the Soviet Union because without the general acknowledgement of a Ukrainian question, the Soviet Union wouldn't have been set up the way that it was. But then the third point, I mean the third way, this is just absurd, is that of course Ukrainian history goes way back before 1918. I mean there, there, there, there are medieval events which flow into it, early modern events that flow into it. There's a national movement in the 19th century. All of that is, you know, going back to your earlier question, all that fall falls into completely normal European parameters. So Ukraine didn't get created in any sense. When the Soviet Union was created, it was already there and it already had an extremely interesting history.

1 (5m 11s):
And during the times of the Soviet Union, was Ukraine allowed to be its own country in terms of language and culture?

7 (5m 18s):
It goes back and forth. When they set up the Soviet Union in 1922, the initial idea is we're going to win over Ukraine. And the way we're gonna win over Ukraine is we are going to have policies of affirmative action where we will recruit Ukrainian elites into the Soviet Union by promoting them, by opening up Ukrainian culture, by opening up jobs in the bureaucracy that goes on through the end of the 1920s. But then when Stalin comes to power in 1928, he sees the situation differently. He, he's trying to transform the Soviet Union economically.

8 (5m 57s):
Here was a government trying to plan and carry out the complete transformation of the economy in five short years.

7 (6m 6s):
He carries out a policy called collectivization, which basically means the state taking control of agriculture,

8 (6m 10s):
Private property was confiscated, and peasants were herded into collective farms.

7 (6m 16s):
Ukraine is the most important agricultural center in the Soviet Union. It's the bread basket of Eurasia. Basically, when his collectivization policy fails and starts starving people to death, cast Stalin says, no, no, this problem is caused by Ukraine, it's caused by Ukrainian nationalists, it's caused by Ukrainian agents funded from abroad, which is all complete nonsense. But what it does is that it turns the Ukrainian question around. And suddenly all of these people who've been promoted through the 1920s are in show trials or committing suicide or executed in the great terror. Suddenly Ukrainian traditional village life is being wiped out by a famine, which was not only entirely preventable, but which was basically not just allowed, but determined to happen in 1932 and 1933.

7 (6m 59s):
So Ukraine is allowed to rise in a certain way and then it's crushed.

1 (7m 13s):
Can you tell us about the famine in Ukraine? Give us a sense of what happened and what the outcomes were for people who lived in Ukraine.

7 (7m 22s):
The five-year plan from 1928 to 1933 was to turn the Soviet Union, which was basically a country of peasants and a nomads into a country of workers. And an essential part of that was to get agriculture away from private farmers, from small holders who were, who were very common in Ukraine, and get it under control of the state because that would allow the state to control a source of capital, which it could then divert towards industrialization. So the peasants would be put under control, the land would put under control, the food would be put under control. And the idea was that this would allow the state to divert resources to what it really wanted to do, which was build up the cities, build up the mines, build up the factories.

7 (8m 6s):
So that's 19, 28, 29, 30. It doesn't really work very well. Collectivized agriculture doesn't work in general very well. And the transition to it can be particularly horrifying in 1931, and especially in 1932, there's a transition to collectivization in Ukraine. There is a bad harvest. And then you have to interpret that in beginning the summer of 1932, what Stalin does is he interprets it politically.

9 (8m 33s):
It was a spoken order, Stalin gave it.

7 (8m 37s):
He says, this is the fault of the Ukrainian Communist Party.

9 (8m 41s):
He said, the wants to crush our Soviet government with the bony hand of famine, we will bend this bony hand back on the throat of the ku.

7 (8m 54s):
In other words, he gives a highly politicized interpretation of a failure, which is basically about his own policy. And then he tries to make reality matches, interpretation. So the famine is not treated as real, or it's treated as the fault of the Ukrainians.

10 (9m 10s):
The Russians came from house to house and took all the foods that people had in the house.

7 (9m 17s):
Grain is confiscated from Ukrainians in 1932 and even into 1933 when it's clear that hundreds of thousands of people, or even millions of people are going to die November, December, 1932, especially the Moscow pushes through a series of extremely harsh policies, for example, that peasants are not allowed to go to the cities and beg, no one is allowed to leave the Ukrainian Republic. You know, things like this, which basically make a kind of prison of the entire republic. So that starving people have nothing to do and, and, and nowhere to go

10 (9m 51s):
For my salary, two loafs of bread a month. So that's only how we could survive. But the peasants were dying.

7 (10m 0s):
So the result of all of this is, I mean, the greatest political atrocity in, in Europe in the 20th century, up to that point, and a nationally and politically directed famine in which I think by the best estimates currently about 3.9 million people die. Who did not need to

1 (10m 16s):
Die? Oh my God, 3.9 million people die who did not need to die. And at that point, is Ukraine essentially beaten into submission? I mean, how do people respond?

7 (10m 26s):
It happens over weeks and, and, and months. And as it happens, people lose their ability to behave politically or in a way that they could protect themselves. They very often, you know, lose the elemental aspects of what we would think of as human morality and, and, and decency. So it's a very, very heavyweight on Ukrainian society. It's an unforgettable episode and it is one of the things that marks Ukrainians now off from Russians. And so if a foreign government, you know, d tries to deny it or minimize it or spin it in some way, as the Russian government has been doing naturally, that causes a good deal of resentment and alienation.

1 (11m 6s):
What happens to Ukraine?

7 (11m 8s):
Ukraine is a constitutive part of the Soviet Union from its establishment in 1922 to its disintegration in, in 1991. The back and forth of how the Ukrainian question is treated continues after the second World War, if in a less violent way. So during the Second World War for a while, Ukraine is praised by Stalin and that's because the war is being fought largely in Ukraine. And by the way, Ukrainians suffer more than Russians in that war. Not just relatively, but also in absolute terms. The civilians suffer more in Ukraine than in Russia. But during the war, because the Germans are trying to control Ukraine, Stalin praises Ukraine. But when it's over, that all turns around again.

7 (11m 49s):
And the fact that Ukraine was occupied by the Germans is turned against Ukraine. Now, Ukraines are suspected of being collaborators. They're more suspicious than Russians are. When Stalin dies, there's a certain loosening on the Ukrainian question, which comes to its apex in the 1960s where there's a certain relaxation and Ukrainian culture is allowed to flourish a bit. But when Reev takes control from the late sixties and especially from the early seventies forwards, you have a policy of a very deliberate Russification in Ukraine. And it's at that moment, the 1970s that are so important for understanding the present because that's when people like Putin grew up, you know, so Putin's perspective that everything is basically Russian and like, you know, everyone really speaks Russian.

7 (12m 31s):
And even if they seem not to, they really want to. That's a very 1970s perspective. On, on, on all of this, from Ukrainian point of view, the 1970s were very much a down point, which only really starts to turn around after the horrible nuclear disaster at Cher Noble.

12 (12m 50s):
An official announcement from the Council of Ministers, there has been an accident at the Cherelle Atomic Power Station. One of the atomic reactors was damaged, the consequences of

7 (12m 59s):
The accident. It's really only after Cher Noble, when Gorbachev and the Soviet leadership don't say anything about the spread of radioactive material, that things start to move in Ukraine. And a new kind of politics emerges in Ukraine, which starts to talk about Ukrainian autonomy or even Ukrainian independence. The Soviet Union comes to an end in 1991, contemporaneous with that. There's a referendum in Ukraine about independence in which there's not only a very large majority across the country for independence, there's also majority in every region of Ukraine, including the ones that Russia claims or occupies or says it's fighting for right now. So after that, Ukraine has to build everything anew. It has to build a state, it has to build an economy, it has to build a political system.

7 (13m 41s):
And that's the phase of history that we're in right now.

BetterHelp (14m 25s):
Support for the show today comes from better help. Better help is here for you because life doesn't come with a user manual. Sometimes you gotta talk out your stuff with someone and work through it and figure out your course. And that's what Better Help wants you to do. Personally. I do a lot of that here in these ads with you. So thank you so much for being here for me. Unfortunately, not everyone gets to do podcast ads to work out their stuff. So Better Help wants to help match you with a professionally licensed and vetted therapist. It's all available a hundred percent online. All you gotta do is fill out a brief questionnaire to match with a therapist. If things aren't clicking, you can easily switch to a new therapist anytime they say it's pretty easy. No waiting rooms, no traffic, no endless searching for the right therapist. You can learn more and save 10% off your first month@betterhelp.com slash explain. That's better. H e p.com/explained.

Rackspace Technology (15m 25s):
For more than 20 years, Rackspace technology has blazed a trail of innovation. We're passionate about customer service excellence and our ability to advise, transform, manage, and optimize solutions for any cloud. Wherever you are in your cloud journey. And because you need a cloud solutions partner who can deliver outcomes every day, we're fueled by our unwavering focus, customer First, cloud. First. At Rackspace Technology, we drive better business outcomes with multi-cloud data, application and security solutions designed to deliver your future faster. Learn more today@rackspace.com.

1 (16m 4s):
It's today explained. We're revisiting a conversation we had with Timothy Snyder, a historian at Yale. I asked him how Ukrainian national identity manifested in the years after the collapse of the Soviet Union.

7 (16m 17s):
A couple of things happen. The first thing that happens is to try to answer the question that you asked, so you know, where does Ukraine begin? And that was answered first of all, in a series of technical ways, border treaties were signed with Russia. A new constitution was written, a new political system, a parliamentary system was set up with Ukrainian elections. And then it was also then answered more slowly. But interestingly with history and culture and even more slowly still language, it's been 30 years and Ukraine is slowly, slowly, slowly, slowly becoming more important than Russian. And it's the young people who say now that they, that they prefer Ukrainian to to Russian.

7 (16m 57s):
But it's been very slow. And if anything like what makes Ukrainians a bit different than let's say Americans and for that matter Russians, is that they're bilingual and they will code switch. And it's so, it's not so much like the Ukrainian language. I mean they have the Ukrainian language and that does make them different. It's their language and it has a beautiful literary tradition and it's a beautiful spoken language. But they also have a capacity which the Russians lack and which we lack, which is to code switch. I shouldn't say we cuz some Americans can, or they're plenty of bilingual Americans, but Ukraine is basically a whole nation of code switchers. And it's that thing also, which makes them a little bit different and and hard for us to, to understand you.

1 (17m 35s):
When does Vladimir Putin first start to incur into Ukraine, either physically or politically? When does he start this?

7 (17m 43s):
I mean, he went to Kiev in 2013,

14 (17m 46s):
Russian president Vladimir Putin in Ukraine's Capital Kiev to celebrate the 1020 fifth anniversary of the region's conversion to Christianity.

7 (17m 57s):
Putin literally said God made us one nation a thousand years ago and there's nothing that anyone can do about it, which is a very bizarre claim. But I think it's the kind of thing that he believes in more and more. I mean, just following this thread, you know, in 2021 last July, he wrote about how he thought that Ukraine and Russia were historically unified. First

15 (18m 18s):
Of all, Putin says, I would like to emphasize that the wall that has emerged in recent years between Russia and Ukraine, between the parts of what is essentially the same historical and spiritual space, to my mind is our great common misfortune and tragedy.

7 (18m 34s):
It starts with this story of this guy who was actually a viking, pagan, how this guy converted to Christianity and therefore everything has to happen. You know, therefore I have to invade Ukraine in 2022. It

15 (18m 45s):
Would not be an exaggeration to say in the formation of an ethnically pure Ukrainian state, aggressive towards Russia is comparable in its consequences to the use of weapons of mass destruction against us.

7 (18m 56s):
So there's a part of Putin, which I think is, has, has come more and more to the fore who is, sees all of this in these like weird metaphysical terms.

15 (19m 5s):
The spiritual choice made by Saint Vladimir, who is both Prince of NoGo and Grand Prince of Kiev still largely determines our affinity today.

1 (19m 15s):
I see, okay. Starting in 2013, he's speaking in a way about Ukraine that he hasn't before. He's bringing religion into it. And then in 2014, this is where he first physically sets foot in Ukraine. Right. Tell me about what happened.

7 (19m 31s):
Ukraine was going to sign something called an association agreement with the European Union that's not membership in the European Union. It's a big complicated trade agreement.

14 (19m 42s):
This is Ukraine's largest industrial chocolate maker. And for the last month it's found itself caught up in a trade war.

7 (19m 50s):
By that point, Russian foreign policy had taken a turn against the European Union, had decided that the European Union was harmful because it tended to consolidate democracy.

14 (19m 60s):
Russia is blocking imports of its chocolates saying the quantity isn't up to scratch.

7 (20m 5s):
And the first evidence of that turn was that Russia put a lot of pressure on Ukraine not to sign the agreement, which was supposed to be signed in late November, 2013. The Ukrainian president at that time, a man called Diano Covich, pulled back at the last moment under Russian pressure

16 (20m 21s):
President Victor Yano Kovich has said he's only suspending, not canceling Ukraine's plan deal on closer ties with the EU and still intends to sign an agreement at a later date.

7 (20m 33s):
<unk> did that and then there were huge protests beginning with young people, with students because they're the ones of course who wanted to think of themselves as Europeans or as having a European future

17 (20m 43s):
Violent clashes erupted in the Ukrainian capital. Kiev as more than 100,000 people protested against a government decision to delay an association deal with the eu,

7 (20m 56s):
Had the students beaten, and then their parents and grandparents showed up on the logic that you can't beat our children, you can't beat our future. The protests became very large indeed,

13 (21m 5s):
Jubilation on the streets of the Ukrainian capitol as protestors took control of Kiev and President Victor Yano. Covich was impeached

7 (21m 16s):
By that time, February, 2014, the Russian army was already on the move. It had been mobilized several weeks before that and carried out an operation to occupy the Crimean Peninsula

18 (21m 26s):
Russian troops spreading out throughout the strategic Crimean Peninsula. President Obama speaking with Russian president Vladimir Putin apparently pulling no punches, although it is unclear what the White House can really do about all of

7 (21m 39s):
This. The Russian army shortly after that began to try to provoke in eight Ukrainian districts, basically artificial uprisings to try to overturn Ukrainian power, which failed in six of them and partially succeeded in two of them, which led to this quasi Russian occupation of two more Ukrainian districts through Heinz and Donk. So that incident is known as the, as the Maan, and then the beginning of the first Russian invasion in February of 2014. So since 2014 there's been Russian power already in a good deal of Ukraine before this latest and terrible invasion began.

19 (22m 11s):
Separatist seized the airport in the early hours of Monday morning before the Ukrainian army responded quickly retaking the site with both concentrated airstrikes and heavily armed troops.

7 (22m 22s):
It's a funny kind of separatism because sure, there are a few people who wanna separate absolutely, but they're being controlled by and are ultimately dependent on for pretty much everything. The Russian Federation. So you have these, you know, enclaves, which are kind of anarchical zones. They're de facto dependent upon Russia, but Russia says it doesn't have anything to do with them. So basically they're places which are kind of unsafe for everybody. You know, even journalists from Russia and Ukraine don't tend to go there, but what they've become is a kind of pretext, right? There wasn't anything going on there in early 2022, but what Putin did was he basically said he made the same kind of move that Hitler made with Czechoslovakia in 1938. He said, you know, there's a democratic country next to me, but that's not what I'm gonna say.

7 (23m 3s):
I'm gonna say my people, my, you know, my co-religionists. My compatriots are being horribly oppressed, therefore I'm gonna recognize these breakaway republics. And then the breakaway republics are gonna issue an invitation, you know, which they literally did the next day for to invade Ukraine. At the end of the day, they just become a kind of pretext for this, this larger action.

1 (23m 28s):
You know, I've been talking to Ukrainians for this show and they have all effectively said some version of the same thing. Number one, we're staying calm but we're ready to fight. One gentleman said he was not going to consider the possibility that Russian troops would make it to where he lives. He would not let his mind engage with that. One woman said

21 (23m 49s):
Thank you and glory to Ukraine.

1 (23m 51s):
On the whole, it sounded as if Ukrainians are certain that Ukraine is a country and that they will defend it. What do you think will happen?

7 (24m 3s):
You asked me why I said Ukraine was a normal country and in, in a way, those answers are confirming the point. It's a normal country where people already have some understanding of what war means, you know, unfortunately and already have some understanding what Russian occupation means. They already have some understanding of what it means for there to be refugees. There's basically not a family in Ukraine which hasn't been touched. It's a common national experience to an extent, which I think people in the west don't really grasp. That 2014 moment got the attention of Ukrainians and, and got them asking some of the questions you asked with more urgency, you know, who are we and what makes us different? And it's of course their experiences which make them different.

7 (24m 44s):
You know, you can't make people love Russia by invading them from Russia over and over again. Whatever Putin does and whatever the military outcome is, there will be a Ukraine in some way that's not gonna be undone.

1 (25m 16s):
Our show today was produced by Miles Bryan, edited by Matthew Collette, engineered by AEM Shapiro and fact checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Noelle King today explained is part of the Vox Media podcast network.

3 (26m 22s):
Our days are marked by our pets quirky

22 (26m 24s):
Routines. So my dog Bo, once it's time for bed, he knows I bring him to the couch. I'll get the blanket, cover him up, and then that's it. I'll come out the next morning and he'll just be chilling there. It's the best.

Fetch Pet Insurance (26m 36s):
So when things happen that we can't predict, like unexpected illness or injury, it's stressful, fetched by the Dotto offers unmatched pet insurance that reimburses up to 90% of unexpected vet bills, even things that others don't cover, like exam fees and treatment for breed specific issues. Get your free personalized quote@fetchpet.com slash vox.

Cadillac LYRIQ (26m 60s):
The Cadillac Lyric brings together the latest automotive technology with the performance focused luxury you expect from the iconic brand and their first ever. All electric vehicle make every moment electrifying with the all electric lyric. The Cadillac lyric has choreographed exterior lighting and the sleek fixed full glass roof. So no matter where you go, you'll get there in style. The 2023 lyric rear wheel drive offers an EPA estimated 312 miles of range on a full charge. Actual lyric range will vary based on several factors including temperature, terrain, battery, age, loading, use, and maintenance. 2023 L orders are full C dealer for 2024. Availability details.