1 (10s):
All this week, heavy hitters from the United States and Russian governments have been meeting in Geneva to talk through their many differences on Ukraine. We talked about Ukraine on the show a week ago with Amy MacKinnon. She's a reporter at foreign policy.

2 (24s):
The key sticking point in Russia's relationship with both Europe and the United States, since the collapse of the Soviet union has been the question of NATO expansion.

1 (32s):
Ukraine wants to join NATO. Vladimir Putin doesn't want them to, and just to underscore the point and he sent about a hundred thousand of his troops to the Russia, Ukraine border, lots of troops, big story, lots of people upset. Meanwhile, a Russia led Alliance recently sent a far smaller number of troops to the oil, rich central Asian nation of Kazakhstan. It has spent 2022 in turmoil. And while it's not getting nearly as much attention for people who watch the region, it is a really big deal. Amy McKinnon from foreign policy is one of them. We started with the turmoil.

2 (1m 10s):
This whole thing began in Southwest Kazakhstan as protests against a decision to lift a cap on a fuel prices.

3 (1m 18s):
The year has gotten off to a very bad start in Kazak Stan. It began with a sudden and steep increase in the cost of fuel sparking deadly protests

2 (1m 27s):
For a long time. Liquified petroleum gas has been subject to a cap which kept prices low, but on January 1st, this and she lifted that cap all of a sudden, overnight making fuel prices, subject to the whims of the market. This caused prices to almost double in some parts of the country. And so in Western Kazakhstan, you know, people came out to the streets to protest these rises and fuel prices, but these protests quickly spiraled and were able to tap into whole basket, a whole range of both political and socio-economic grievances across Kazakhstan against corruption against inequality, regional issues, the country's authoritarian rule. This is a country which has been ruled for, for three decades.

2 (2m 8s):
Now since the collapse of the Soviet union with a very iron fist and these just all kind of converged in early January, as protests spread across the country,

4 (2m 21s):
Thousands of concepts field, the streets of the capital of Mati, attacking government buildings and demanding an end to over three decades of oppressive one party rule.

1 (2m 32s):
And who's out in the streets protesting.

2 (2m 35s):
It's been hard to get a good steady stream of accurate information coming out of Kazakhstan because very quickly as these protests escalated, the government shut off the intranet and huge parts of the country. Foreign journalists were prevented from getting in there. Of course were many local, a very brave cosmic journalists working in midst, all of this. And, and then of course, it's, it's difficult to take what the government says on face value. It's an authoritarian regime and they, their own kind of particular agenda and spin to all of this. So it does appear that what began is a genuine protest at socio-economic political grievances was kind of hijacked and particularly in Amata, which is the biggest city in Kazakhstan hijacked and turned violent by the intervention of criminal gangs.

2 (3m 20s):
Some of whom have been reported to have connections with the family of, of the former president Nursultan Nazarbayev turning these protests violent. And that has been seen by a lot of cosmic analysts is indication that behind the scenes that some actors may, as part of an ongoing political power struggle may have sought to, to capitalize on these protests and tilt them in a more violent direction.

1 (3m 47s):
How does the government respond?

2 (3m 49s):
The government responds actually by negotiating with protesters in Western Kazakhstan, by agreeing to, to reimpose the cap on fuel prices. But when protest turned violent and almighty, you know, police officers were killed. There was some horrific reports of police officers being beheaded, amidst the chaos. That's when the government really starts to, to respond to and to crack down the president, gave the police the authority to open fire on protestors,

5 (4m 16s):
Continue to damage state and private property and use weapons against civilians. I have given the order to shoot to kill without warning

2 (4m 25s):
And something like 10,000 people have now been arrested. People have been hoping killed amidst the violence. That's huge in such a short space of time in response to protests that making these the most, the most deadly protests most deadly and rest and in Kazakhstan's a year since the collapse of the Soviet union.

1 (4m 43s):
Okay. So turmoil in the streets. We have no idea at this point, how many are dead? The government in Kazakhstan picks up the phone and calls Russia for help. Russia in turn sends in some troops, but they do it through this C S T O, which is the collective security treaty organization. Think of it as Russia's NATO for now.

2 (5m 10s):
So it was January 5th. So only three days after these protests began. I mean, that is how quickly things really escalated president tekiah turns to the CSTL this collective security organization and asked for them to intervene

3 (5m 25s):
To share

2 (5m 26s):
Those claims that there's tens of thousands of, of terrorists in his words of foreign trained terrorists, and using that as a justification for, for calling in this external security organization. I should say that, you know, whilst there's been reports of, of criminal gangs and filtrating the protests and, and kind of fueling the violence, I haven't seen any compelling evidence of, of foreign influence fueling these protests that has kind of become the regional authoritarians, kind of the dog ate my homework, excuse for cracking down on, on, on dissent and, and civil society, as well as pointing to kind of shadowy foreign interference, which is, is fueling these protests

1 (6m 11s):
Who shows up when they call them the CSTL the

2 (6m 13s):
CSU dispatched, some two-and-a-half thousand troops, mostly Russian troops, but there was also some from, from other members of the Alliance. So from Belarus, Kurdistan Armenia, and they're dispatched to protect government buildings to protect the oil industry.

1 (6m 28s):
So they don't exactly hit the streets to quell these protests.

2 (6m 32s):
They don't hit the streets, the midst of violence and almighty government buildings are sat on fire protesters, stormed the airport. And so the CST troops were mostly deployed to these kinds of points of critical infrastructure. The violent crackdown on protestors appears to have really been led by the security forces within Kazakhstan and the CSCO troops were really just brought in as kind of the heft on the sidelines to protect these institutions.

1 (6m 57s):
That being said, how often does something like this happen? How often is the CSCO called upon to enter a nation and secure government facilities or something like that?

2 (7m 7s):
As far as I'm aware, this is at least the third time in the CSTs history that a member has called upon an intervention. This is the first time the Alliance has responded In the past. They've always done mirror declines, these requests. And so the CS tool was kind of seen as a, as a little bit of a paper tiger. And so that's why it was such a shock to everybody who follows the region that they responded and they responded so quickly. I mean, they were on the ground, I think within 24 hours of the request being made.

1 (7m 58s):
In a minute, Amy, before we get into why the CSTL was called upon here in Kazakhstan and why they actually showed up this time, what exactly is this organization? I mean, Russia's NATO seems like the shorthand, but is that all it is?

2 (8m 37s):
I think Russia would like to see it as Russia's NATO. Now, NATO definitely doesn't view it as that they've have avoided any kind of dealings with <em></em> to avoid just giving it any legitimacy that has its roots in, in a collective security treaty, which was signed in 1992, shortly after the collapse of the Soviet union between several countries that made up the Soviet union as a, as a collective security pact. And then this was in 2002 kind of reconstitute it into what we now know as the collective security treaty organization right now, aside from Russia, it has five other members to JICA Stan kurgastan in central Asia, Armenia Belarus. And of course, Kazakhstan and as being compared to NATO, because like NATO, the CSCO is based on a principle of collective defense, right?

2 (9m 25s):
So an attack on one is an attack on all nature has article five. The CSU has article four, which is basically the same. And that's what, I'm the president of Kazakhstan invoked. When he claimed that there was, was foreign terrorists who were behind this unrest and asked the Tio to intervene.

1 (9m 43s):
And this is the first time the CSTL actually has intervened. You mentioned that there were two other cases where requests are made. What happened then

7 (9m 54s):
The sparks that set off these protests in Kyrgyzstan's capital city Bishkek were corruption, poverty and rising prices, including a 200% hike in electricity bills.

2 (10m 6s):
So in 2010 amidst unrest, and kurgastan the country's interim president then asked the CSU to intervene and they declined. And it's not clear why it may have been because there was an element of inter-ethnic violence going on and not wanting to wait into that. And just last year, Armenia asked the CSCO to intervene, amidst a border dispute with Azerbaijan, which was coming on the heels of, of the renewed conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh

8 (10m 33s):
Between Azerbaijan and Armenia over the dispute of territory of Nagorno-Karabakh is in its ninth day. Both sides have accused each other of attacking civilian areas and the casualties.

2 (10m 44s):
And again, the CSCO declined to intervene. Why do we know? So Armenia asked for support from the CSCO amidst these border incursions from Azerbaijan, and they thought about it and the, the Alliance took a few months to respond, but ultimately they declined to get involved. And the block secretary general said late last year that it was essentially a border incident and that the Alliance could only be invoked in the case of an aggression or an attack, which makes it all the more interesting that they have now decided to intervene in Kazakhstan.

1 (11m 14s):
And yet Kazakhstan calls them the CMTO in early January for these very internal sounding issues, you know, protests over inequality and, and, and price hikes with, with fuel and they show up. Do we have any idea why

2 (11m 34s):
There's two parts? I think to that, the first is why did Kazakhstan call on the CSCO that may have been, because, you know, it's not clear whether, you know, amidst this power struggle, which has kind of brewing behind the scenes, whether president Kaia felt that he could trust the military to actually come to his aid. You know, Kazakhstan does have its own army, fairly formidable security forces. They have the means domestically to crack this down and kind of ultimately they did, as we know, from previous examples of authoritarian regimes, the moment that it leads, lose control of the security services, they're ousted from power pretty quickly. So he may have had his own questions about that. And then, you know, there's the second part of that, which is why did the CSCO respond?

2 (12m 17s):
And it's nominally a multi-nation grouping, but it's really, you know, it's seen as doing is as led by Russia and, and doing Russia's bidding. And, you know, one thing we know about the Kremlin's foreign policy is that they are extremely opportunistic. You know, they're very good at recognizing where there may be an opening to kind of tip things in their favor and to just step back and give you kind of sense of, well, what does Kazakh Stan's role? Where does it sit in the kind of broader structure of alliances in the region? Kazakhstan like a lot of central Asia has for a long time been very skillful at being on good terms with all of the major players in the region, right? With where they've maintained good relationships with, with Russia, but also with China, with India, with the west, with the United States.

2 (13m 2s):
And, and it's been kind of, there's been this kind of harmonious balance. And so Russia may have seen an opening here to make themselves, you know, once you have essentially propped up a leader and kind of come to their aid in the midst of, of mass unprecedented era unrest, you know, you really have majored self dispensable to that leader. They may have seen an opening to position themselves closer to the Kazak president and closer to the Kazak leadership. And so that then raises a lot of questions. Well, well, what does Russia want in return? Right? They don't do this out of benevolence.

1 (13m 32s):
I mean that we might be seeing them making appearances in central Asia, Maura

2 (13m 37s):
When president tekiah framed the unrest as being fueled by an external terrorist threat. I mean, that's kind of similar excuse we see from leaders throughout the region, president Alexandra, Lucas Shanko made similar remarks in Belarus. And so if the CSCO is willing to take that on face value and intervene, I mean, you, it's not hard to see how in another country, in the region, in the midst of unrest, a leader in books, those, those magic words of an external terrorist threat, whether, you know, highly likely to be imagined, it's not hard to imagine the CSTL potentially using the Kazakhstan model and repeating a similar intervention. So it's going to be interesting to see how this pans out,

1 (14m 21s):
Like, what sense do we get of Russia's long game here? This is an advantageous favor. They're doing Kazakhstan. And then of course, simultaneously they're massing troops at the Ukrainian border. They're telling the west that if Ukraine joins NATO, all hell's gonna break loose. I mean, what exactly is the game that Russia is playing right now? Is it just trying to rebuild the Soviet union, the Soviet block?

2 (14m 47s):
I think if you were to boil it down into one word as to what the Russian strategy here is here, it's influence What they have demanded. And they've been pretty vocal about this is they, they want influence over their neighbors. You know, they do see the former Soviet union, the former communist block as, as their sphere of influence. When, whenever they see an opportunity to just kind of put their thumbs on the scale and the regional crisis to, you know, to, to gain some more influence and leverage you. And if just by a couple of inches, they're certainly very good at seeing those openings and seizing upon them very quickly,

1 (15m 32s):
Amy McKinnon, she's a reporter with foreign policy. You can read her work@foreignpolicy.com. We spoke with Amy Wednesday morning on Thursday morning, we got reports that the CSTL had begun withdrawing its troops from Kazakhstan. Our show today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain engineered by a theme Shapiro fact-checked by Laura Bullard and edited by Matthew Collette and Noel king. Hello, as you may have heard, Noel's our new co-host, you'll start hearing from her on the regular beginning, February 16th, which will also be our thousandth episode, mark your calendars. The rest of the team includes miles. Brian, we'll read Heidi Milwaukee, D Halima Shaw and almond Alsada who's our supervising producer, Liz Kelly Nelson is Vox is Veep of audio.

1 (16m 19s):
We use music from Breakmaster cylinder and nom I'm Hassenfeld too. We had extra engineering help this week from Paul mousey. I'm Sean Rama's from today explained is part of the Vox media podcast network.