1 (2s):
The State Department in the last few hours designated Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Garish, Covich wrongfully detained it's language that we'd already heard from Secretary of State Anthony Blinken.

2 (13s):
In my own mind, there's no doubt that he's being wrongfully detained

1 (16s):
Today. His office made the designation official, which means the US government will have more resources to work on bringing Garish Covich home Fittingly. The Wall Street Journal broke the

3 (26s):
Story now that they have actually designated him as wrongfully detained, the office of the Special Envoy of Hostage Affairs and other groups within the government are able then to move forward and push for, you know, advocating for Evans release.

1 (40s):
Garish Covich is of course not the only American to be detained in Russia, but he is a journalist and he's accused of spying and that has not happened since the Cold War. Who is Evan? Why was he arrested? How might he get out? We've got some answers coming up on today, explained. It's today explained. I'm Noel King, Piore Sour is a Russia affairs reporter for The Guardian, but he is reporting on Russian affairs from outside of Russia. He left Moscow in March of 2022. Not long after the war started,

4 (1m 19s):
I left Russia like many other journalists at the time, for security reasons. I was trying to get back into the country trying to get accreditation from the foreign ministry, but I wasn't able to get the right papers. And now obviously after Evan's arrest, I'm not thinking of going back anymore.

1 (1m 36s):
Peter has been on the show with us before. In fact, it was just last summer. And so we called him after learning that he and Evan Gar Kovich were friends.

4 (1m 45s):
I've met Evan five years ago on my first day at the Moscow Times, an English language newspaper. As I walked into the office right away, I was greeted by this big infectious smile of Evan and he himself moved to Moscow year earlier also to get a job at the Moscow Times. Evan is the son of Soviet emigres. He grew up in New Jersey, you know, as just as an American kid, but because of his background, because of his parents who left Russia in the seventies and moved to the States, he always had an interest in Russia in the broader region. He spoke Russian at home, you know, he always wanted to report on the country. So when he got opportunity, he was working at the time for the New York Times, but when he got the opportunity to move to Moscow, he, he took the leap of faith and took a job at the Moscow Times in 2017.

1 (2m 30s):
And what was it like working with him? I imagine you guys were like in your mid twenties, late twenties at the time.

4 (2m 34s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, it was really start of our careers. You know, I've, I'd loved working with Evan. We did a lot of double bylines together. We worked very closely together. You know, he's just an amazing colleague, very generous with his time. You know, he always wanted to get the story right. He would spend hours and hours interviewing people, re-interviewing them just to make sure he, you know, he got it right. One

5 (2m 55s):
Myth I think is access in Russia and we found that, you know, if you go out looking for people, people are willing to talk.

4 (3m 2s):
And yeah, Evan as a, as a person, and I think Evan as a professional are very interlinked. You know, he was always so good at making sure that the people he was talking to are, you know, feeling comfortable. They really felt that he was really interested in their story. You know, he was extremely open, extremely social, extremely curious about you whether, you know, you were an important businessman or an a position leader or a struggling artist, you know, he was so, so diverse in his reporting.

1 (3m 27s):
What happened after the war started?

4 (3m 29s):
Yeah, Evan, just like me and many other journals, he left the country. He temporarily moved to London and then he was accredited for a ministry. So, you know, he always told me as long as I can report I should on, on Russia. So, you know, he bravely returned in the summer and would do regular trips to Moscow and, you know, and report from outside of Moscow as well. So that was his choice. He, you know, he, you know, we always discussed this, this choice, but he said, you know, I should be there because I'm accredited by the foreign ministry. Many of our Russian colleagues were forced to flee under real threat of prosecution. And some Russian journalists were jailed and he thought, you know, if I'm privileged enough to be able to report as a, as a foreigner, I should do this.

1 (4m 12s):
What do you know about Evan's arrest?

4 (4m 14s):
Unfortunately, not that much because it's, the state is saying it's a, it's a secret case.

6 (4m 19s):
It's now been three days since Evan GKIC's colleagues at the Wall Street Journal last heard from him. That is as he was entering a steakhouse in the Russian city of Ye Kattenburg for a meeting, we now know that he was detained inside that steakhouse.

7 (4m 31s):
Russia's security service claimed he'd been collecting secrets about a defense factory.

4 (4m 37s):
We know that the, the fbe Federal Security Services issued a statement last Monday saying that he's arrested on espina charges, spying for the United States. It's obviously an unprecedented bogus charge.

6 (4m 50s):
Kvi is being held in Le Forte, a notorious prison in the Russian capitol. He's the first American to be jailed for alleged ESP Espina since Nicholas Danoff, a reporter then at US News and World Report, who was arrested and put in the same prison by the way, back in 1986

4 (5m 6s):
Before, this is a notorious Soviet era prison where many famous political opponents of the regime have been imprisoned, including Alexander Sajani, the famous writer during the Soviet Union. You know, this jail is really meant to isolate you as much as possible from the outside of the world. You know, he'll be spending his time there only with one other cellmate and that's the only person he'll be speaking to for months. You know, there's no social contact with the other prisoners. It's sort of this maximum security prison, a cell of eight square meters. It's always light there even at night. So it's quite hard to sleep. You can walk for one hour a day, shower once a week.

4 (5m 46s):
It's very tough mentally, especially

1 (5m 51s):
Is he given a lawyer?

4 (5m 53s):
He has met his lawyer, a Wall Street Journal appointed lawyer and there was a great relief to find out that the lawyer said that he's physically in good state and mentally he's not broken. So for his friends, for his family, this was just, you know, such a relief cuz for days we had no idea how he was doing. We've heard that he's reading Life and Faith, he managed to get it from the library there. Life and Faith is this fascinating book written by VA Brossman, a Soviet writer who witnessed the Second World War reported on it. And the book is really about excesses of the terrorism, about the Soviet Union. He always told me he wanted to read it, so it's sadly ironic that he has to read it now being jailed in Moscow.

1 (6m 37s):
Tell me about the charge of spying.

4 (6m 40s):
So yeah, I mean this is an unprecedented charge. Russia has used this charge on other foreigners before most, not only on Paul wheen the US contractor who's been in jail for four years now in Russia on journalist. This hasn't been used in modern Russia. It's an extremely serious case. You know, he could get up to 20 years in jail and it's extremely rare for people to be acquitted on this case. So, huh. He won't be facing an honors judge.

1 (7m 6s):
There are Western journalists in Russia. There have been for a very long time. Do you know why Evan was the one who was picked up?

4 (7m 11s):
It's a very difficult question and we can only speculate. Obviously Evan was doing amazing reporting, which was critical of the Kremlin and Val Putin probably didn't like his reporting, but at the same time, I think a lot has to do with the fact that he was American, that he was a US citizen. There were only around five, six American journalists left reporting on the country at the time of his arrest. So in the end, I don't think the list was that big. And obviously this seems like a clear case of hostage taking.

1 (7m 39s):
What happens next for Evan? Do you know?

4 (7m 41s):
Yes, he'll stay in LeFort at least until the end of May. Then the judge will decide whether to extend his pretrial detention. Unfortunately, these spy cases can take months if not longer. Eventually, if he gets a sentence, he'll be moved to a regular prison. Usually those prisons are located somewhere far away from Moscow in Siberia or in the north of the country. But for now, he is in the portable. I guess the only positive thing is that we, he is able to receive letters and together with some colleagues who've set up a letter campaign for him and you know, it's been amazing to see people he knows, but also people he never met sending letters.

4 (8m 22s):
He's received over 500 letters so far. I mean, at least those letters have been sent. Hopefully he'll receive them soon and he can write letters back. So, you know, from a personal perspective, I'm really hoping to get a letters soon and just see how he's doing. You've

1 (8m 36s):
You've into him there?

4 (8m 37s):
Yeah, of course. And it was the hardest letter I ever had to write. How do you put into words how you feel, how much you care for him? That had to be in Russian as well because all letters have to be in Russian. It's a letter you never wanna write. And yeah, I I obviously teared up. It was incredibly difficult.

1 (8m 54s):
You said, said earlier that you have tried to get back into Russia. I mean, it is, it is your job to be in the place where the news is happening. Are you still trying after all of this

4 (9m 4s):
At the moment, I don't think that's a good idea for me. Okay. We'll see how, how things develop. And obviously that also depends on general situation. It is important as a Russia correspondent to try to report from Russia, but you know, there is a point where you need to think if, if the risks are worth it and you know, Russia has really crossed the line with Evan's arrest. Obviously this is a game changer for a lot of Western journalists. I think it represents that Russia doesn't play by any rules anymore. There was always this sort of unspoken rule that foreign journalists could report on the country. You know, they harass and prosecuted Russian journalists for years, for decades, but as a foreign journalist accredited by the foreign ministry, you were allowed to be there.

4 (9m 48s):
But now it seems like every foreigner could be taken hostage for their own goals, whether that's to exchange someone they want in the West or just to intimidate us. That's unclear, but it's the one thing we do know that you're no longer safe as a foreigner.

1 (10m 7s):
Pra, before I let you go out of wild curiosity, are you willing to tell me anything that was in your letter to Evan?

4 (10m 14s):
Yes, I, the last thing we talked about on Wednesday hours before his arrest, we talked about Arsenal. That's our soccer team that we, that we both loved and it's doing really well this season. We could win the league. So right after the game finished, I made sure to write the letter with the score, give him a bit of highlights and description, just so you know. He has, I know he's, he's really upset. He's not, he's not able to watch the game, so I, I'll make sure to update him.

1 (10m 40s):
You're a good friend. Pto, thank you so much for taking the time today.

4 (10m 44s):
Thank you Nile. Thank you Nile.

0 (10m 53s):
Coming

1 (10m 54s):
Up the last reporter before Evan Garish, Covich to be arrested and charged with espionage in Russia. He's gonna join us. Today's episode is sponsored by ramp. If you are running a business, you probably know better than I do that keeping track of expenses can be complicated, but also you need to know where your money is going. Ramp would like to help you with all of that. Ramp is a corporate card and expense management software designed to help you save time and limit expenses.

1 (11m 35s):
RAMP says it can help you control your spending, save you time, automate your busy work from corporate cards and expense management to bill payment and accounting integrations, whatever those might be. RAMP says it has helped over 10,000 businesses save a total of over 270 million to date. RAMP says it can also give your finance teams insights control into company spending. You'll be able to issue cards to every employee with limits and restrictions and automated expense reporting. So you can stop wasting time at the end of every month to learn how all of this works. And to get $250 off when you join ramp, you can go to ramp.com/explained.

1 (12m 15s):
That's ramp r amp.com/explained.

8 (12m 24s):
Hey, this is Sean Illing. I'm the host of the Vox podcast, the gray area where we take a philosophical look at culture, politics, and the world. Basically I get to talk with really smart people about big ideas for a living and it's pretty awesome. And a great thing about working at Vox is that everything we do is free and accessible to everyone. Vox has been free since it was founded nine years ago, and we want to keep it that way for years to come. You can help us do that by making a contribution today. Making a contribution supports what we do here at the gray area. It helps keep Vox free and it makes us less dependent on advertising and that's a really good thing for everyone.

8 (13m 6s):
Go to vox.com/give. There's a link in the show notes. Thanks for your support.

9 (13m 24s):
This is today explains,

1 (13m 28s):
Give me your full name if you would, and tell me what you do.

10 (13m 31s):
My full name is Nick Daniel L and I don't do anything.

1 (13m 37s):
What did you used to

10 (13m 38s):
Do? I used to be a reporter.

1 (13m 42s):
Nick is the former Moscow Bureau chief for US News and World Report, and he was not especially surprised when Evan Garish Covich was arrested.

10 (13m 50s):
I thought, here we go again.

1 (13m 53s):
In August of 1986, it was him. Nick was on his way out of Russia. He had just finished a five year stint, he was done and he met up with a friend and exchanged some Stephen King novels for what he thought was an envelope full of news clippings. And then in an incident he prefers not to remember. Yeah,

10 (14m 13s):
Fortunately most of that's receded from my mind. The

1 (14m 16s):
KGB ambushed him and threw him into laforge prison.

10 (14m 20s):
We had rules of behavior that were posted on the wall, which we were supposed to abide by. If you didn't read Russian, I don't know how you could have abided by them. But anyway, there they were. I, I

1 (14m 34s):
Didn't like Evan, he does speak Russian. And so when the Soviet Union said Nick was a spy and what was in that envelope wasn't news clippings, it was top secret documents. He was in a lot of trouble.

10 (14m 45s):
Being in prison is no good either in the United States or in Russia. It may be slightly worse in Russia because you are really very isolated. Whereas in American detention you tend to have access to the outside world by television, maybe newspapers, maybe phone calls, maybe visits. That is less true in Russia. When you are in prison the way I was, you tend to feel that you may have been forgotten. And my understanding was that the United States got quite upset over the fact that a journalist who was not a spy was imprisoned.

10 (15m 34s):
And there was quite a lot of outrage that surfaced in the United States over all of this. That trickled back to mad. At some point

1 (15m 44s):
The United States did get quite upset and he was released after a month in a negotiated prisoner swap

11 (15m 51s):
Our hostage in Moscow. Mr. Danoff has been transferred to the custody of our ambassador.

1 (16m 1s):
A Soviet spy flew from Washington DC to Moscow and Nick Danoff flew from Moscow home to Washington dc By now, the concept of a prisoner swap with Russia is feeling very familiar. Britney Griner was released in one of these trades, but Calder Walton of Harvard's Belfor Centre says this is not a good idea. He's the author of a forthcoming book called Spies, the epic Intelligence War between East and West. And he spent a lot of time looking into the history of these types of allegations

12 (16m 29s):
To arrest a foreign journalist was unusual. Even in the Soviet period. What was much more common was to arrest political dissidents and people who disagreed with the kremlin's line of thought on the pretext of being foreign espionage agents. So the crime was quite commonly wielded, but it was unusual, if not unique, to actually arrest a foreign correspondent like Nick Danoff.

1 (16m 58s):
It was unusual even in 1986. Here we are now in 2023, there is no more Soviet Union. How do we get from then when it was unusual to today?

12 (17m 8s):
Well you're, you're absolutely right. So the Soviet Union disappeared in 1991 ceased to exist, but the continuity that you allude to in your question revolves I'm afraid around the person of President Vladimir Putin, who was a former KGB officer. His experience in the KGB in the 1980s, exactly at the moment, by the way, when Nick Danoff was arrested that shaped Putin's view of the world,

13 (17m 36s):
Putin has never accepted the fact that the old U S S R lost the Cold War and he continues to try to revise the outcome. Crimea, Georgia now, now,

12 (17m 45s):
And it is a last unfortunate that what we find today in Putin's Russia is a rolling out of former KGB practices updated for the modern digital world. So I'm afraid when looking at the perspective of who's in charge in the Kremlin, it's entirely unsurprising that Putin's Russia would resort to such horrendous practices as arresting a foreign correspondent on trumped up charges, false charges of espionage.

1 (18m 15s):
Do you think there is any way at all that Russia believes Evan Kish Kovich is a spy?

12 (18m 21s):
I mean, I think Noel, that's to get into the mind of Putin and I don't really want to go there, but I think it's much more safe to say this is a, a vehicle charging people for espionage is a longstanding vehicle in the, in the Kremlin. So I dunno whether they genuinely believe it, but I think that there's a lot of evidence to say that what they are trying to do is to actually create a swap for one of the Russian agents who have been arrested recently in the West.

14 (18m 51s):
Last week, the US charged a Russian currently jailed in Brazil, who posed as a Brazilian graduate student to spy in Washington.

12 (18m 58s):
And it's for that reason, I think he was charged with espionage in order to set in train a process for Russian spies arrested in the West to be swapped for him. I would also just like to emphasize to your listeners that the US government does not use the cia, does not use US journalists for cover. It's actually prescribed by law is prevented under legislation from doing that. Even receiving intelligence from US journalists, let alone using journalists as cover. It doesn't happen that used to happen in the past, but since reforms and legislation in the 1990s, it does not happen.

12 (19m 43s):
All of this lies in absolute sharp contrast to Russia and the Soviet Union before it, which from its earliest days, has used state media organs for cover for intelligence officers. So for example, the Russian news outlet today, tass goes right back to the Soviet Union's earliest days and some of its earliest so-called correspondence overseas were Soviet intelligence officers. And that continued throughout the 20th century throughout the Cold War. And it is reasonable to say it continues today. So you're dealing with a very different regime and it seems to me as with so much about Putin's Russia, when you hear Putin's Kremlin saying X, Y or Zed that a foreign country is doing, it's usually actually them projecting.

12 (20m 36s):
So listeners, I would suggest, think about it this way, when the lady doff protests too much, it's usually because the lady is actually doing that thing herself.

1 (20m 47s):
I could see somebody saying, look, a prisoner swap worked. In the case of Britney Griner,

15 (20m 52s):
W N B A star Britney Griner on her way home to the US tonight freed from Russia in a prisoner swap for a Russian arms dealer convicted here in the US known as the Merchant of Death.

1 (21m 3s):
She came home, a bad guy was released, yes, but we got the American home. It sounds like what you're saying is Russia understands that this is a possibility. The United States also understands that this is a possibility. Do you think prisoner swaps are a good idea?

12 (21m 17s):
Well, I should say to start off with, it looks like the US government has a choice of incredibly bad options. And I'm afraid that I would place a swap as one of the worst of the bad options for the simple reason that it will create the possibility of future hostage taking if you get into this business. And I'm afraid that this is an probably an unpopular thing to say and we're all incredibly glad that Britney Griner has come home. But I think that the, unfortunately that case probably reinforced to the Kremlin, that hostage taking can work in order to create a swap for people that are detained in the West, that the Kremlin wants back.

1 (22m 3s):
So what should the Biden administration do?

12 (22m 5s):
In my experience of looking at the history of the way Western governments have dealt with the Kremlin and the Soviet Union in Russia, that light is the best disinfectant, shine as much light onto their actions as possible and to use every means available through sanctions, through expulsions. I mean, we know for example, that the Russian delegation at the UN is still quite significant In New York, there are Russian consulates and embassies throughout the West. These Russian embassies and consulates contain undercover Russian intelligence officers. If I were in the Biden administration, i o b, looking to put pressure on allies to gut those consulates and embassies to reduce them to shells, which by the way would allow for intelligence officers to also be expelled because they're operating their undercover.

1 (23m 1s):
And why does that matter? I mean, one might look at that and say, okay, well you're expelling the Russians, but they just get to go back home. Evan Gersh Kovic is in a prison. This doesn't seem even,

12 (23m 12s):
No, it doesn't. But this could be part of a, a package, a threat to say that if you don't release him, you will have literally a shell of a diplomatic presence in western countries. Even Russia at this point, I think realizes the importance of having some sort of diplomatic presence in the West in order not least to maintain channels of communication about the future of the war and the hopeful piece coming out of it.

1 (23m 41s):
I wonder, big picture as you look at the history of all of this, we have Western journalists leaving Russia for their own safety. We, we spoke to Piore Hour of the Guardian earlier in the show. He said he hasn't been able to get back into Russia since the war started. This is a fellow whose job it is to cover Russia. What do we lose when we don't have Western journalists in Russia? Do we really lose anything?

12 (24m 2s):
Well, the entire purpose of people in your profession is to ask awkward questions to governments and to hold them to account. And it's for that exact reason that journalists are within the crosshairs of the Kremlin. So what do we lose? We lose reporting from within that country. But Russians themselves lose access, albeit usually in roundabout ways through Western websites reporting about what is going on in their own country.

1 (24m 45s):
That was Calder Walton. His book is coming out this summer. It's called Spies, the Epic Intelligence War between East and West. Thanks. On this episode, de Vivian Salam of the Wall Street Journal, who you heard at the very beginning of the show, Vivian broke the story today about the state department's designation of Evan as wrongfully detained. Today's show was produced by Amanda Lou Ellen and edited by AM El. It was engineered by Patrick Boyd and fact checked by Laura Bullard and Matthew Collette. I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.