0 (0s):
Since the dawn of mankind, there have been generations and no generation has been more disruptive than the millennials. Millennials killed cable tv. Millennials killed the nine to five. Millennials killed irony. Millennials killed paper napkins. Really? Millennials killed golf. Millennials killed them all. Millennials killed marriage. And now millennials are killing motherhood.

1 (38s):
As a millennial, I am terrified of both pregnancy as a female and bringing a child into the world that we live in.

0 (49s):
Why, millennials, dread motherhood coming up on today, explained

Netflix (1m 1s):
Hey there beautiful people. I'm journalist and author Reval Anderson, and I'm hosting the official Rustin podcast. We are diving into the man the moment and the movement at the center of the Netflix film Where the stakes were so severe people were getting killed for registering people to vote. He was a pioneer in the sense that he really was a true radical. You are absolutely gonna wanna listen, I promise you that. Subscribe now wherever you get sleigh worthy podcasts.

Vox (1m 32s):
Hey there. It's Noel from today. Explained since 2020, Vox has turned to our readers to help us keep Vox journalism free. Most newsrooms make money through either advertising or subscriptions, but for us, there are a couple of big problems with that. First, advertising goes up and down with the economy. And second, we are not into subscriptions. Vox is here to help everyone understand complex issues, not just people who can afford to pay for it. And we cannot do that of course, if we have a paywall. So If, you believe in the public value of news, please help us get to 95,000 gifts by the end of the year by going to Vox dot com slash give Today. Explained.

8 (2m 18s):
Now you say not Francis

9 (2m 21s):
Today. She say,

8 (2m 24s):
Good job.

7 (2m 26s):
Rachel Cohen writes about policy at Vox. She's also a millennial who's been thinking about whether or not she wants to be a mom.

8 (2m 33s):
So I'm 31. When I was 30 I, I was had been seeing someone for about a year and things were going really well, but we never talked about our feelings on having kids. And everything that I was really seeing about motherhood looked really bad. But I didn't wanna say something that might mess up the relationship because I'm not someone who's always wanted to be a mom, and I'm not someone who's always loved being around little kids or babysitting. And so it kind of set me on this journey of just trying to learn more about motherhood and reading more stories and doing research. And there were aspects about it that seemed kind of nice in this way that surprised me, but then my fuzzy feelings would fade.

8 (3m 21s):
And I would remember all the ways in which what we are told about motherhood in America sounds like hell. Just to give you like an example of what I mean here, some of the major titles of nonfiction that have come out over the last couple years on motherhood, mom rage, the everyday crisis of modern motherhood screaming on the inside, the unsustainability of American motherhood, ordinary insanity, fear, and the silent crisis of motherhood in America. All the rage, mothers fathers of a myth of equal partnership. So you know, you can kind of see where the dread feeling comes from. It's gonna hurt your romantic relationship. It's gonna destroy your sex life. How

10 (3m 60s):
About six years? That's when I think I'll wanna do that again.

8 (4m 7s):
You're gonna lose touch with all your friends. Isn't

11 (4m 9s):
It weird though, when you have a kid and all your dreams and hopes, just go right out the window. Your

8 (4m 13s):
Career is gonna suffer. You

12 (4m 14s):
Really are gonna be a mister around here. Well, I won't be gone too long. I'll be back as soon as my maternity leave finishes. Well, unless you give my job to someone else during that time,

8 (4m 23s):
Your physical and mental health's gonna degrade. You're gonna get no support from your partner, your employer, the state. You're gonna be all on your own. You're probably gonna go bankrupt, like have fun.

7 (4m 35s):
Rachel took all those feelings she was having about motherhood and put them into a piece for Vox titled How Millennials Learn to Dread Motherhood. And the essay got a ton of responses from all sorts of millennials who were like,

1 (4m 48s):
And the millennial who's dreading motherhood and parenting. I am a mother, but I was dreading it. Don't wanna put my body through that if I have the option. And I think for the first time in my life, I'm asking what would the quality of my life look like? I think a big part of that is social media and being able to see the reality the day-to-day of being a mother. I just don't know how much I can give to a child. I pay a lot of attention to the news and to climate change and things seem pretty grim. There's not really much hope for the future. So I don't want to add to it. Also, don't want to bring a kid into a world that's so broken and hateful and violent.

1 (5m 30s):
I also had a lot of pressure from everyone as to how to mother, I see divorce, I just don't wanna do it. Kids are a lot also who is financially stable enough at our age to have a child show me them.

8 (5m 48s):
My goal going into the piece was to explore this concept of dread that women are feeling and to understand sort of, of how the discourse had changed. So it wasn't really like trying to prove a thesis so much as understand something that I was observing. And there's always been ambivalence and even a little fear with the idea of becoming a parent. It's a life-changing decision. But the kind of dread that I was wanting to look at is really unlike the kind of anxiety that baby boomers and Gen X and even some elder millennials have dealt with when they're making this decision. Because never before have the risks and the stakes and the cost been so loud, so clear, and really coming at women from all angles, all over social media, pep culture and with vanishingly few positive stories or characters.

8 (6m 35s):
And I think just a really important thing to understand is that it's not like this is just spin or PR. There really are millions of happy parents out there and there is a lot more positive research on parenting that we tend to hear less frequently. So it was just trying to understand why that is and how we got here.

7 (6m 51s):
I wonder, you know, is there like a left right divide in how motherhood is depicted on social media? Is this political in some way?

8 (6m 59s):
So I do think that's another thing that has been happening over the last few years that has added to this sense of confusion because the whole prospect of becoming a parent has started to seem more politically fraught. And I think that's really cannot be separated from the attacks we're seeing on abortion rights in this country. I think there's this real sense over the last few years, especially on the left, that this is a time to amplify and to clarify the risks of pregnancy and the toll of parenting that nobody should be forced to do against their will. And because of this, I think there is more ambivalence, there is more of a feeling that it would be almost inappropriate to talk more vocally about upsides of having children.

8 (7m 39s):
Because there are people out there right now who really wanna force you to have kids when you're on the fence or leaning against it. Republican politicians are doubling down on explicit endorsements of childbearing.

13 (7m 49s):
People who go home at night and see the face of a smiling kid, whatever their profession, I think they're happier, I think they're healthier and they're gonna be better prepared to actually lead this country

8 (7m 59s):
While saying the kinds of things that Democrats increasingly do see as at odds with reproductive freedom and kind of valuing families of all kinds. We also wanna de-stigmatize people who choose to live child-free. So I think, you know, there's just this dynamic happening right now where progressives don't wanna embrace this tism ideology. But it's also not great that they've backed away from more positive messaging on families and kids. Like most Democrats, messaging tends to center on how hard it is to raise a family in America and how, you know, crisis and precarity. And it could be better, but it's not good right now.

14 (8m 37s):
Parents who need help buying groceries and baby formulas will see their out-of-pocket costs go up. It is so cruel and heartless that parents who get $6 a person a day to feed their families would see it disappear. Can you imagine?

8 (8m 51s):
And that is, I think, fueling feelings of dread that people, people who haven't yet become parents feel.

7 (8m 59s):
Okay. So depending on your politics, depending on your algorithms, depending on what's around you and what kind of culture you can consume, you're, you're seeing this dreadful depiction of motherhood in America, or perhaps you're seeing this sort of unrealistic, everything is perfect, idealistic version of motherhood. Where is the truth for most American moms or potential moms?

8 (9m 27s):
Yeah, and I read this great piece in The Cut about two weeks ago about a mom. She has two kids, she's pregnant with her third, and she was writing about how had she seen the videos on TikTok about parenting before she'd had any kids? She's not sure she would've gone through with it

15 (9m 45s):
In case anyone was wondering what the hardest part about being a mother is. It's when you're sick home and motherhood does not stop

16 (9m 59s):
And don't get me started with the hell I went through during my first trimester. I was stuck to the couch my first trimester, I was stuck in my bed, I was crying.

8 (10m 9s):
And she, you know, writes great things about the real realities and the challenges of parenting. But the images and representatives that we're seeing today are really getting extreme and, and I think distorted and leaving people with a confused representation. Even though the thing about TikTok videos is they're sort of presented as if you're getting like the real truth. Like, you know, anyone can make a video so it's not filtered by the mainstream media or, or gatekeepers. So, you know, having a more nuanced take on parenting might get less clicks, it might be less sexy, but I think it gets us closer to the truth. And I think that people who are trying to decide what's best for them in terms of reproductive decisions, like we should be helping them get closer to the truth so they can make the decisions that are best for them.

8 (11m 2s):
I've heard from so many women over the last week saying like, thank you. They had never had these anxieties really articulated before. Some of them cited the Barbie movie monologue is the closest. Getting to that, you're

17 (11m 14s):
Supposed to love being a mother, but don't talk about your kids all the damn time. You have to be a career woman, but also always be looking out for other people.

8 (11m 22s):
But you know, they had never even really, they said talk to their friends or even their partners about it. And I know for me, doing this project, you know, pushed me to ask even some of my closest friends questions we had never talked about together. Even though it turns out we were all kind of grappling with similar fears and messages. And I can say like my own feelings of dread have gone down since doing this research and since talking with more people in my position with people who are already parents. And so I feel like the balance is just trying to be sensitive to how the information is conveyed and what people should realistically do with it. And not to be afraid to share the good stuff because that's part of the story too. Even if you know it might generate fewer clicks

7 (12m 9s):
In a minute, a mom, but not only a mom, A mom who's daring to generate fewer clicks. It's today explained

18 (12m 27s):
Fox Creative.

Eli Lilly and Company (12m 29s):
This is advertiser content from Eli, Lilly and Company. Dr. Brandy Matthews is a neurologist in Alzheimer's disease expert at Lilly who thinks the first step to tackling Alzheimer's is knowing what it is and what it isn't. Alzheimer's disease at the early stages that signs and symptoms may be ignored. I, I think in part due to the association of the disease with advancing age and a lack of understanding that there's an ongoing disease process, not part of normal aging. So what might be the difference between forgetting an appointment and forgetting the name of your hometown amyloid plaque? An amyloid plaque's a clump of misfolded protein that abnormally accumulates inside of the brain and then triggers a cascade of other events. This eventually leads to disrupted communication between the brain cells. Tests are available to check for the abnormally folded sticky proteins in the brain that are associated with Alzheimer's disease, using brain PET scans, cerebral spinal fluid tests, and even more recently with some specialized blood tests. Diagnosis that's timely in a patient's disease course may also have an impact on the progression of the disease. If the intervention happens early. Empower yourself with knowledge If, you are noticing memory and thinking issues. Go to more than normal aging dot com to learn more about what you can do

Etsy (14m 8s):
Support for today. Explain comes from Etsy. With the holiday season approaching, you might be on the lookout for presence. Etsy is a great place to help you find affordable handcrafted gifts made by independent sellers. If, you have someone on your list who's a home chef. Etsy could help you find the perfect addition to your kitchen. Maybe a custom cutting board. If, you have someone on your list who's obsessed with that. Nicole Kidman, a MC ad that previews the movies. you know, somehow heartbreak feels good in a place like this. And you're like, I want that on a hat. Etsy can hook you up. Was that personal? Maybe. If you're new to Etsy, you can use the code holiday 10 for 10% off your first purchase. That's code holiday 10, maximum discount value of $50 expires December 31st, 2023. See terms at etsy dot com slash terms for handcrafted and affordable gifts for everyone on your list. Etsy has at shop etsy dot com.

Netflix (15m 13s):
Hey there beautiful people. I'm journalist and author Reval Anderson, and I'm hosting the official Rustin podcast. We are diving into the man the moment and the movement at the center of the Netflix film Where the Stakes were so severe people were getting killed for registering people to vote. He was a pioneer in the sense that he really was a true radical. You are absolutely gonna wanna listen, I promise you that. Subscribe now wherever you get sleigh worthy podcasts.

19 (15m 43s):
You are listening to today explained.

20 (15m 46s):
I am Sarah Petersen and I'm the author of Momfluenced Inside the Maddening Picture, perfect World of Mommy influencer culture. And I also write the newsletter in pursuit of clean countertops, which is about the myth of the ideal American mother.

7 (16m 1s):
And since I don't follow you on social media, Sarah, I have to ask, are you now or have you ever been a mom influencer?

20 (16m 8s):
I mean I am a mother on social media. So per my own definition, I am my like, I don't know, quick and dirty definition of a mom influencer is someone who has utilized their maternal identity as a way to build a social media following a lucrative social media following. So really their identity as a mother is central to how they are building their brand. And then for the purposes of my book, I sort of looked at anyone performing motherhood online, regardless of whether or not they're doing it for money. What

7 (16m 43s):
Got you into this business of motherhood?

20 (16m 45s):
So I had my first kid in 2012, which was a really different landscape than it is now. I was the first in my peer group to have children. I certainly wasn't consuming much motherhood content mommy bloggers existed at that point, but I wasn't following any of them. So I really went in, you know, completely cold. I remember I emailed like my cousin's wife asking her what to get, like what to buy. Whereas now you will find millions upon millions of, you know, things you need for new baby things to pack, you know, for the hospital.

20 (17m 25s):
So it's really striking for me to think back on that time as just so, so drastically different from what it is now.

7 (17m 32s):
Yeah. How have things changed in the intervening decade or so? Yeah,

20 (17m 36s):
I mean, I can't really imagine somebody embarking upon parenthood now and having to email a cousin's wife for a list of baby products. They will be bombarded with ads from the second they first get a positive pregnancy test and start Googling, you know, what does a blurry line mean? Is it accurate? And they will be targeted by mom influencers trying to sell them everything under the sun curtains, you know, skincare products, washable rugs, I mean you can pretty much hinge any product onto motherhood, If you want.

7 (18m 18s):
So what other kinds of influencers are out there? It sounds like ones that are posting lots of pictures of their babies.

20 (18m 24s):
I mean the, the image of a stereotypical mom influencer that comes to mind is someone who's white, who's thin, who has long blonde beachy waves, who has access to generational wealth, who is married to a man who has more than two children and her house is decorated in lots of shades of beige and white. There's lots of linen, there's macrame, wall hangings, and there's a lot of joy.

21 (18m 53s):
This is one of my favorite projects I make all of the boy betting. But this would also make a really good gift if you're looking for something thoughtful to give a new friend with a new baby.

7 (19m 2s):
Oh, okay. So this, this kind of differs from what we were hearing in the first half of our show, which is that if you're looking at mom content mom tent, online Oh, gosh, you're seeing a lot of dread. You're seeing a lot of look how hard my life is and how impossible these expectations are. But you're saying there's a lot of content mom tent out there that's depicting perfection.

20 (19m 24s):
Yes, but I also completely, you know, I see Rachel's point in that there is a ton of essays, articles, books, movies, focusing on sort of the darker sides of motherhood. And I think the stereotypical mom influencer content it, it's not giving you a nuanced picture of the private internal satisfaction one can derive from motherhood. It's very much checking super gender normative boxes of motherhood. So I think, you know, I can totally see how somebody that doesn't have kids is consuming both the motherhood dread stuff and the picture perfect squeaky clean imagery on Instagram and coming away with no clue what to expect.

20 (20m 15s):
So somebody I've spent a lot of time writing about and studying is Hannah Neman. She's ballerina farm.

22 (20m 23s):
This is the dinner making crew. While the boys are at rodeo practice,

20 (20m 28s):
She lives on a ranch called Ballerina Farm because she's a Julliard trained ballerina. So it's this really fascinating blend of pick yourself up by your bootstraps, homestead aesthetics and hyper-feminine beauty, queen, blonde, white femininity. You needed the dough, let it rest. When I first started looking into her, she had a little over a hundred thousand followers. She now has upwards of 8 million last time I checked.

7 (20m 59s):
Okay, so people want this kind of stuff. I mean 8 million followers. That's no joke. And does this make people feel aspirational, depressed? What

20 (21m 10s):
I mean? If we're looking at ballerina farm I mean you could write a doctoral thesis on her comments alone.

7 (21m 18s):
So

20 (21m 18s):
Many of them are just, you know, wow, you just had your seventh baby and you're already wearing an evening gown. Wow, you make sourdough bread from scratch every day. You're the best mom. Wow, you homeschool your kids, you're the best mom. There's all these assumptions of what makes a good mother as reflected on her page, despite the fact that, you know, the vast majority of the 8 million people following do not know whether or not she's a quote unquote good mom.

7 (21m 49s):
I mean, some of those things you said don't sound all that bad, but what's problematic here, I guess the deeper issue is that it may not all be realistic for gen pop.

20 (22m 0s):
A hundred percent I mean. you know, if we're thinking about nostalgia in general, particularly as it pertains to gender roles within the home, there were no quote unquote good old days for any mothers, particularly marginalized mothers. you know, white angels of the house could only exist through the labor of other mothers being paid. Sorry,

7 (22m 24s):
You had me at White Angels of the House.

20 (22m 27s):
So, okay, I'm referencing the 19th century cult of domesticity, which was a real thing. And yeah, they were called Angels of the House and they were primarily white wealthy women whose status really served to further marginalize and harm, you know, working class women, women of color, certainly queer women and queer mothers. So I think when we fetishize this modern day rendition of sort of the angel of the house, we are digging in our heels at the ideal that there can only be one kind of good mother.

7 (23m 4s):
Do you think they have a real effect on people's decision to become moms?

20 (23m 9s):
Yeah, when I was reporting out my book, I spoke to lots of people who were on the fence about having kids and many of them felt sort of exhausted by the performance of motherhood as they saw it online. Like all the picnics, all the pumpkin patch photos, all the holiday cards. It just felt like a lot of outward facing work. And that makes complete sense to me. But you know, other people said it looked fun and they wanted to go to the pumpkin patch and dress their kid in a cute, you know, pin afo and handknit sweater or whatever.

20 (23m 53s):
So I really think it depends on the consumer and what they're consuming.

7 (23m 58s):
What would you say to the people who Rachel spoke to for her article on millennial mom Dread? And I think that that that piece that she wrote performed really well because a lot of people could identify with it.

20 (24m 14s):
Yeah, I mean, I can't fathom what it must be like to be considering motherhood in 2023.

7 (24m 22s):
Why do you say that? Why can't you fathom it?

20 (24m 24s):
Because I became a mother when there was so much less widespread motherhood content available. I mean, I could have done some digging and found some mommy bloggers talking about postpartum depression and sort of the gritty sides of motherhood. but it wasn't everywhere the way it is now. But on the flip side, you know, I was shocked by how difficult motherhood was experienced postpartum depression and felt really isolated in that experience. So yeah, I, I, I feel for people considering motherhood now, you know, feeling anxious and bogged down by the onslaught of information.

20 (25m 9s):
But I also don't think that it was great 10 years ago when we knew so much less. Hmm. And I don't know, one thing as I read her piece that struck me was just that if we are determining how motherhood might be for us only through social media and motherhood media, We will have sort of a lopsided view. I really feel like If, you talk to any person who is currently a parent, it's really easy to hold both truths at once. Talk to any parent, you know, and they have a whole thread where they are, you know, interchangeably bitching about toddler tantrums and also boring their friends with cute things their kids said that day.

20 (25m 54s):
A hopeful note, I think, is that If, you talk to any person who's actually a parent, I think you're gonna feel less bogged down by, you know, the grim motherhood narrative that you're absorbing via the media and just really, yeah, any binary is missing something. If something is all good, you know, it's missing some, it's, it's missing the bad. If something's all bad, it's missing the good.

7 (26m 29s):
Sarah Petersen is a mom, maybe a bit of a Momfluenced and the author of a book called Momfluenced Inside the Maddening Picture. Perfect World of Mommy Influencer Culture. Thanks to all of our listeners, so many listeners who called in to tell us about their millennial dread of motherhood. Our program today was produced by Victoria Chamberlin, working mother of two. We were edited by Amman Alade Fact, checked by Laura Bullard, mixed by Rob Byers, and hosted by me Sean Ramis firm. We four collectively have zero children. It's us. Hi, we're the problem. It's us. The rest of the team of today explained includes executive producer Miranda Kennedy, host Noel King, managing editor, Matthew Collette, Halima Shaw, Isabel Angel, Haddi, Awadi Miles, Bryan, Patrick Boyd, and Abby Shai Artsy, who became a dad for the second time a week ago today, but not a millennial dad.

7 (27m 24s):
Apparently he's a geriatric millennial, though I hope they have pills for that. Welcome to the world, Andromeda. Breakmaster Cylinder makes music sometimes we use it today. Explained is distributed by WNYC. The show is a part of Vox, which is totally free. Thanks in part to contributions from our listeners. Join us at Vox dot com slash give and thank you.