0 (0s):
Have you ever looked up a new pair of Jordan Eleven's online that you've been dying to have, and then been inundated with ads for those same sneakers everywhere you turn, you can take back your privacy with IP vanish. VPN IP vanish helps you safely browse the internet by encrypting a hundred percent of your data, just one tap and your searches, passwords communications, browsing history, and more will be instantly protected. Even your physical location is hidden. IP vanish makes you virtually invisible online. Go to IP vanish.com/xbox now and use promotional code V O X to get 70% off their yearly plan. That's IP V a N I S h.com/vox

2 (54s):
Who had Russia and Ukraine on their bingo card for 2022. The biggest story of our newest year is one that feels super old, right? Like east versus west democracy versus authoritarianism, former KGB member. Not terribly nice when given free reign over Russia. Yeah, but it's all very important. You've surely noticed that the president's talking about it. It's all over the news. So today on the show, we're going to try and take a step back to explain why, why is this Ukraine, Russia story, such a big deal. We asked Jonathan Guyer, he reports on the world for Vox.

3 (1m 39s):
Well, there's a lot of factors that play here. One of the big ones is energy and the economy, but I don't want to be callous about the bigger human implications of this. I mean, if there's the biggest land war in Europe, since world war II, or definitely since the Kosovo crises and wars of the nineties, that would be a lot of refugees. A lot of people dead and NATO, the north Atlantic treaty organization, which the U S is kind of the most muscular member of is, is going to take responsibility for keeping peace in Europe. Can you

2 (2m 14s):
Help us understand the obligations? The United States has to Europe, especially via NATO and where those obligations began.

3 (2m 25s):
The cold war may seem like ages ago, but NATO is this really important security Alliance from those days when, when the Soviet union and the U S were in this fraught kind of daily, stressful potential nuclear war

4 (2m 45s):
For over 40 years, the United States led the west in this struggle against communism and the threat. It pose to our most precious values. It forced all nations to live under the specter of nuclear destruction.

3 (2m 58s):
But after the breakup of the USSR in the nineties, NATO is still existed.

5 (3m 4s):
And Kyle Gorbachev said it best today. Just moments before he resigned his post as the last president of the Soviet union. If you have to go, you have to go it's that time. He said time for Gorbachev's departure, but of greater importance time for the end of a state, that in its brief, 74 years had murdered and oppressed its own people, enslaved other countries and threatened the peace. The very existence of the whole world.

3 (3m 29s):
This Alliance of Western countries, you know, meant to protect Europe and north America. And the kind of key article of their treaty of this group of allies is an attack on one NATO country is an attack on all of that, but there were a lot of questions of what is NATO do now? What is its role? It had literally been designed to counter Soviet influence the Soviet union's gone. And there were a lot of glimmers of hope that, you know, Russia and the U S and Russia and Europe could get along. There were some agreements, there was a lot of opportunity, but I think with the rise of, of Vladimir Putin, the Russian president in the early two thousands, we saw kind of recalcitrant Russia or Russia that was full of grievances about how the cold war ended.

6 (4m 14s):
And I've reiterated many times. And you're well aware, not an inch eastwards. This is what we were promised, not an each in eastwards in the 1990s, we were told, well, basically they swindled us. They swindled us. They lied to us five waves of further expansion to the east. This is what nature engaged in

3 (4m 39s):
And, you know, a desire of Russia to assert itself. Again, I'm the world stage. And this is where NATO's come into play as Russia's kind of invaded Georgia.

7 (4m 49s):
Yeah. Georgia said it was trying to retake control of Southwest set yet the breakaway province on Russia's border, that's policed by Russian peacekeepers claiming more than 10 of its soldiers were killed in the night attack. Moscow said it would retaliate Russian jets bombed for airfields, according to Georgia. And there are conflicting reports tonight over who's controlling those set Tia's main city

3 (5m 14s):
Invaded other countries in Eastern Europe and including Ukraine in 2014

8 (5m 20s):
Morning, more unidentified bro, Russia, armed militias, paroling. The streets of Crimea's capital. These troops are standing guard just a few hundred feet away from a Ukrainian Naval base. They have twice as the base command to surrender so far, they have refused.

3 (5m 40s):
And this calls into question, you know, can the U S be the world policeman, can it with NATO protect the sovereignty in the borders of a smaller weaker country then Russia, because it's not like Ukraine could necessarily win on the battlefield without the help of some of us allies and partners this

2 (5m 60s):
And just feel left out. Does he just really want to be a part of NATO? Has he ever asked about

3 (6m 4s):
That throughout the nineties? There were opportunities where Russia's kind of saying, Hey, why can't we be a part of this security architecture in Europe? We're not the bad guys anymore. And you know, this goes to questions. Historians are really thinking about right now, which is did some of the mistakes of the United States of this era by pushing for adding more Eastern European countries to NATO. Did that aggravate Russia? Now, certainly that's what Putin says today. We don't need to, you know, hold his word at, at face value. And we probably should challenge what Putin says, but there definitely were opportunities where after the cold war, Europe could have been totally reconceptualized and the whole kind of undergirding structure of European security didn't have to go through NATO.

3 (6m 55s):
NATO could have been disbanded. In fact,

2 (6m 58s):
And now the potential inclusion of Ukraine in NATO has led to this conflict we're in right now, tell us more about how Russia's invasion of Ukraine could affect the region and the world.

3 (7m 13s):
First things we're going to see, and the white house is setting these up. Now, our sanctions were

9 (7m 18s):
And full blocking sanctions on two large Russian financial institutions, VEB, and their military bank. We're implementing comprehensive sanctions on Russia, sovereign debt. That means we've cut off Russia's government from Western financing. It can no longer raise money from the west and cannot trade in its new debt on our markets or European markets either.

3 (7m 44s):
So a whole package of ways that the United States will try to punish Russian leaders, Russian oligarchs, Russian folks, involved in this new effort to invade Ukraine, but, you know, sanctions, don't just kind of happen. You don't just kind of stop one side of financial flows without having a bigger effect, right? And so that's going to have effects on the European economy. And then that's going to have an effect on our economy and possibly gas prices, possibly all sorts of financial nuances that may seem minor, but could have a huge effect on inflation, for example.

2 (8m 22s):
And as we covered on this show on Friday, in an episode all about sanctions, they don't just hurt governments. As you mentioned, they hurt economies, which is to say they hurt the Russian people, people in Western Europe, people in the United States, even potentially

3 (8m 36s):
Exactly, even the most targeted sanctions are going to have kind of a blow back or unanticipated effects. And, and one thing to keep in mind is that Putin and his allies and the Russian government have been preparing for sanctions. They might have cash flows ready to bolster their own position and work around these sanctions, which then kind of ricochet into Europe into America and definitely would affect Russians and Ukrainians

2 (9m 5s):
And beyond sanctions. There's a whole host of other economic implications here. Right?

3 (9m 9s):
Of course. I mean, Russia has a lot of raw materials that Europe and the world depend on that could be, you know, platinum and rare minerals and semiconductors, but definitely energy gas oil, and in a pipeline by the way, has been at the center of this.

10 (9m 26s):
It's been contentious since the day it was proposed. The north stream two pipeline was due to bring gas from Russia to Western Europe, but now it faces a shutdown before it's even begun operations, German, chancellor OLF Schultz said Tuesday that he was putting its approval on ice.

3 (9m 44s):
Energy is a major component of this,

2 (9m 47s):
The economic side of things. Let's talk about the actual war side of things. If it gets there, Ukrainians will die. Undoubtedly,

3 (9m 55s):
Right? And, and that's quite terrifying because there's already a simmering civil war. And Ukraine's east this area where the beginnings of an invasion are basically unfolding right now inside

11 (10m 9s):
Well held territory with local cameraman filming authorities have evacuated 30,000, mostly women and children, and called up men young and old to be ready to fight Ukraine.

3 (10m 20s):
And Russia has been using these kinds of proxy troops, separatist movements, you know, not quite the military, kind of like malicious funded by Russia and 14,000 people have died since 2014. So this is a pretty real conflict. And that's going to get a lot worse if you have the much more highly trained Russian army coming in with much higher tech weapons,

11 (10m 45s):
Us officials tell PBS news hour, at least one third of Russia's 150,000 plus troops on the border have already left their staging areas and move to attack positions. That's documented by new satellite images of new deployments of armored equipment and troops moving towards

2 (11m 0s):
The border. And we know Russia typically doesn't just wage, you know, terrestrial warfare. There's also cyber warfare.

3 (11m 9s):
Russia really has been deploying since their 2014. First invasion of Ukraine are what's called hybrid tactics. These are this whole slew of unconventional ways of waging war. A big part of that is cyber attacks, but that also means all sorts of tricky behavior. You know, they've leaked phone calls of American diplomats and some of this even culminated in the hacking of various emails of American leaders in the 2016 election. So there's a lot of cyber warfare that's already been going on and is very likely to escalate.

2 (11m 48s):
How do Russians feel about this conflict? We have some Gallup surveys from Moscow.

3 (11m 55s):
It's, it's really hard to understand what's exactly happening in Russia. Given the choke hold that flattered me or Putin has over the country. I think there is a huge strain of, of Russian nationalism and Russia does feel somewhat embarrassed on the world stage. This is a great power, a former empire that's been kind of shriveling up in recent decades, you know, has an economy, the size of Spain, which isn't much for such a big country. But the other thing to keep in mind is that Russians and Ukrainians share a lot. There's a lot of familial ties and shared identity and shared language.

3 (12m 35s):
So I think it's probably fair to say that very few Russians want lore and absolutely no Ukrainians want an invasion. And, and many of them, in fact, in a recent poll, don't even think one is going to happen at the great scale that the media seems to be predicting here in the United States.

2 (12m 55s):
What about Americans as this becomes, you know, foreign policy priority, number one for president Biden and his administration, how do Americans feel about this far away country and it's far away? Probably.

3 (13m 9s):
So this totally goes to the heart of what is the role in America in the 21st century? I think after the debacle walls and the tragedies of Afghanistan and Iraq, there is no option that involves, you know, American troops on the ground and Ukraine and the United States is a nuclear power in Russia is a nuclear power. So everything needs to be done diplomatically to avert a war between these two countries and Biden has been playing a two track game with his diplomats, doing everything they can to, to jockey towards a diplomatic solution while also preparing the ground, whether that's through arms and weapons, you know, free weapons to Ukraine through setting up sanction packages, basically, you know, good cop, bad cop Redding for whatever phlebotomy or Putin is going to do.

3 (14m 8s):
And this has been our big question, you know, even as an invasion or the beginnings of one has been unfolding, to what extent will it be? Is, is this still a big game of chicken or, or will it be quite deadly and widespread in its repercussions?

2 (14m 50s):
This is advertiser content

12 (14m 51s):
From American cancer society.

13 (14m 53s):
My name is Cynthia Bigay and I am Hopi born for the Mexican people. And to Roberta, we called you birdie. I'm thinking of you, you who inspired me more than any other to stay connected to my Navajo culture. You who made me beautiful silver and turquoise jewelry that I still treasure you, who were one of the last of our family, whose first language is Navajo. You who died of breast cancer from my home in California, I have dedicated myself to helping tribal communities deal with cancer and other health concerns. Growing up as an urban American Indian, I saw firsthand the hardships and health disparities. Our people face, we face higher rates of many cancers, and we are more likely to have screenable cancers detected at late stages than white patients.

13 (15m 43s):
Our elders are getting older. I worry about what happens as the keepers of our culture pass on. So I am here to help keep our culture and to help combat the health disparities that threatened us. We have to make sure we have access to screenings, clinics, and quality health care that we do, mammograms, that we get HPV vaccines to prevent cervical and other cancers. She must sunny birdie. I carry forward your legacy with my career in public health. And I thank you for all the gifts you have given me initially love Cynthia Bigay

12 (16m 19s):
To learn more about how the American cancer society is addressing cancer disparities through direct work in communities and investments in making the healthcare system more equitable for patients and their families visit cancer.org/health equity.

14 (16m 35s):
The cut in her shoes is not just another interview podcast. It's a show that begins where other podcasts about success and with a look at what happens next. It's a show about how the structures that can inspire our own ambition can also be the same ones that get in the way of progress. My name is Lindsay peoples Wagner, the cut's editor in chief, and on each episode, I'm speaking with someone that the cut is watching admiring or just fascinated by together. We explored not only how they forge their own path, but also how they're bringing others along with them. Now that they've made it check out and follow the cut wherever you listen to podcasts.

2 (17m 21s):
Okay. So Jonathan, where we left off, you were setting this up to be quite a test of the Biden administration's foreign policy. What exactly is the Biden administration's foreign policy? Does it have some themes, some overarching goals.

3 (17m 38s):
If you asked me a few months ago, it was going to be respond to the pandemic counter China, rebuild the U S economy and deal with the climate crisis. But those four pillars are basically out the window because almost all attention is focused on Ukraine, Russia, and the potential for a really big war,

2 (17m 59s):
Which is to say he would have much rather not have had to deal with this. Absolutely.

9 (18m 4s):
Who in the Lord's name does Putin think gives him the right to declare new so-called countries on territory, the belonged to his neighbors. This is a flagrant violation of international law and demands a firm response from the international community.

3 (18m 21s):
So what we do know is that Biden himself is really involved in this and has been a decision-maker in the Senate and as vice president or problem solver on these very issues. Let me tell you

16 (18m 35s):
The reason I picked Joe Biden, if I'm in the room, making the kinds of tough decisions that the next president's going to have to make both on domestic policy and on international policy, then I want the counsel and advice of somebody who's not going to agree with me a hundred percent of the time and Joe Biden doesn't bite his tongue.

3 (18m 55s):
So probably no one has thought more about Ukraine in the American presidency than Joe Biden himself. But what I worry about is Biden comes in with a very cold war frame, and we were talking about NATO and what NATO means. I think he still sees European security, European allies, and NATO sometimes through a Soviet lens, through a kind of old school position. And I worry sometimes that Biden his team. Aren't seeing what's right in front of them, which is a very 21st century conflict with Putin. Hmm.

2 (19m 34s):
Explain how, how is this not just the cold war in 2022?

3 (19m 39s):
Well, Russia today is not the Soviet union with its kind of international reach and power. This is a much smaller and less powerful country. And you know, we're not at war with them. This isn't a decades long conflict. This is a new conflict. This is flooding mayor Putin, kind of doing the smallest thing he can do, which is assert himself in a former Soviet Republic. Maybe unsuccessfully it's a lot different than a Cuban missile crisis or, you know, proxy wars and in Vietnam or Korea or these kind of larger theaters of war that unfolded over decades and really tested American power.

3 (20m 24s):
This is something much smaller and Biden is very much prepared to deal with it. But I think a lot of progressives are wondering if, if a diplomatic solution could have been better to this.

17 (20m 38s):
No one knows exactly what the human costs of such a wall would be. There are estimates, however that come from our own military and intelligence community, that that could be over 50,000 civilian casualties in Ukraine, not to mention millions of refugees, flooding neighboring countries as they flee, what could be the worst European conflict since world war two.

3 (21m 21s):
And one way to think about it, I think is cognitive empathy or empathizing with your enemy

2 (21m 29s):
Empathizing with Vladimir Putin,

3 (21m 32s):
Right? And this is something that, you know, one of the, the great hawkish leaders of the Pentagon Robert McNamara kind of architect of the Vietnam war said, which is you have to empathize with your enemy, right?

2 (21m 47s):
Or McNamara killer of hundreds of thousands says you should empathize,

3 (21m 52s):
But there's something amazing about this because we made it out of the Cuban missile crisis, you know, without a nuclear war. And that was in large part to this Axiom, which, you know, I think McNamara was the first summit. We didn't empathize with, you know, the Vietnamese fighters and we kind of missed the boat and we treated that crisis as something that it wasn't, what

2 (22m 15s):
Support does Biden have in the American political apparatus? It sounds like there are some progressives who would choose more empathy. Does that mean that the more hawkish Democrats and Republicans are with them a hundred percent here,

3 (22m 27s):
You know, I've spoken to, you know, half dozen or more former diplomats to European countries. Everyone thinks Biden's doing an outstanding job, kind of doing a full court diplomatic press working really closely with French, German, other European leaders. And one really interesting thing that Biden's been doing is sharing bits and pieces of intelligence, declassifying intelligence. This is where we've seen all these kind of mind-boggling warnings. That Putin is about to invade Ukraine for weeks and weeks.

9 (23m 1s):
We are ready to respond decisively to Russian attack on Ukraine, which is still very much a possible.

3 (23m 7s):
This has been a response to some of Russia's scarier tactics, which is Biden's just putting it out there. What his intelligence agencies are telling him,

9 (23m 19s):
The Russian defense minister reported today that some military units are leaving their positions near Ukraine. That would be good, but we have not yet verified that we have not yet verified. The Russian military units are returning to their home basis. Indeed, our analysts indicate that they remained very much in a threatening position,

3 (23m 41s):
A little confusing and very little of it can be verified, but does show a kind of new approach that this administration is taking, is that

2 (23m 50s):
Approach meant to be sort of contracted with the approach of the prior administration? Obviously the former president's whole thing was sort of focusing on America first.

3 (24m 2s):
I think that's a huge part of it, but there's even a more recent example we could use, which is Biden. I think really bravely withdrew from Afghanistan this summer ended this war that no one wanted and that wasn't doing any good, but it also showed a real lack of coordination with allies with Afghan partners. And it was a huge mess to clean up and, and really caused a lot of problems for Biden. It was kind of a self-made foreign policy crisis, even though there was going to be some kind of disaster in Afghanistan considering it, it wasn't kind of the real nation building that that country needed or wanted. It was a U S occupation invasion for many years.

3 (24m 44s):
So I think Biden is kind of having to do repair from the Trump years and repair from his first years and kind of show European allies that they matter and that America will have their back, especially because the U S military and us investments in European security are really key to what makes NATO tick

2 (25m 8s):
And in trying to sort of restore America's place in the world. I guess Biden's also trying to say that, you know, you can't infringe upon sovereign democracies, is that the larger message here for Vladimir Putin?

3 (25m 22s):
This is something a lot of conservatives have been saying that if Ukraine is invaded and the U S doesn't do anything, it really sends a message to China that they can invade Taiwan, you know, which they don't, which China doesn't totally recognize or see as a sovereign country, but is a close us partner. It sends a bigger message that, Hey, if you're a smaller country, your sovereignty, your autonomy is not necessarily guaranteed. And, and this is something, you know, when it comes to the power of the powerful, that's the question that is being posed by Ukraine invasion

2 (26m 1s):
That makes this conflict seems so big. But I guess one surprising takeaway from this conversation with you Jonathan so far is that you make it feel kind of small Russia's economy is only as big as Spain's. This is a sort of last ditch, desperate effort from Bladimir Putin to cling on to any sort of power he has to exercise in this region. Is it, is it big or is it small or, or is it both,

3 (26m 28s):
I mean, that that's get to be seen and it, and it will be a big crisis if it's a big war and a lot of people die. But I think what we're seeing is that Vladimir Putin is somewhat small. He's a 69 year old leader. He's wondering, I think what his legacy is. He spotted some weakness in the Biden administration in 2014, when Putin went ahead and invaded the Eastern part of Ukraine and also annex Crimea and the south, the Obama administration, they kind of blinked. They didn't really go after him. And so many of the same advisors from those Obama years are now in key positions in the Biden administration.

3 (27m 12s):
So one wonders if, you know, Putin saw the lineup and said, Hey, this kind of worked eight years ago. Maybe I can do this. And the Biden team won't flinch. I went back to a speech that Biden gave about Russia about four years ago. And you know how Biden's always so folksy. He gave one of his kind of classic little aphorisms where he said, my dad had an expression, never

9 (27m 40s):
Back a man in a corner. His only way out is over top of you.

3 (27m 44s):
And I think that's where we are with Russia right now, they're backed into a corner and this is the job at diplomats, right? It might seem like diplomacy is impossible right now, but diplomats have to figure out a way to empathize with his desires and give him an off-ramp so that the outcome of this isn't a hundred thousand people invading a country and, you know, untold number of deaths, but creating a way so that Putin can get out of that corner without climbing over the United States.

2 (28m 31s):
Jonathan Geier is a senior foreign policy writer at Vox. You can read his work@vox.com of the, our episode today was produced by Hottie Milwaukee D edited by Matthew collect engineered by Paul <em></em> and fact checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Sean Rama's from it's Ukraine explained