1 (2s):
It is been a big week for Taylor Swift and Drake, but they weren't playing on one of their biggest platforms. Not a single one of their songs was on TikTok. Instead, we've got stuff like this. Oh,

0 (14s):
It's, it's a,

1 (23s):
And this.

2 (24s):
It's like, right. Whoa, my man. Sta back at me, sing it.

1 (32s):
And good heavens this. Come

0 (34s):
Back, back please. Together

1 (41s):
On today explained, we're looking into why the biggest record label in the world is picking a fight with the app that's constantly promoting their artists and why we are all caught in the middle.

Vanta (57s):
Ah, Support for the show comes from Vanta Dealing with loads of spreadsheets, juggling different tools and having to do manual security checks can be a headache. It's tough to keep up with the demands of today's compliance and security programs. Vanta is a trust management system that wants to simplify things and bring all your trust building efforts under one roof, making growth smoother for your whole org. You can get $1,000 off Vanta when you go to Vanta dot com slash explain. That's va nta.com/explained. For $1,000 off Vanta,

The Weeds (1m 41s):
Getting evicted can often be a life-changing event. And some of us are more vulnerable than others. Black women just typically have less money available to pay their rent, less money to go around period. Really affects the chances of building longer term financial safety nets like an emergency fund for job losses. What do the disproportionately high eviction rates for black women tell us about housing stability and how we can make it better. That's this week on the weeds. New episodes every Wednesday.

5 (2m 13s):
You are listening to today explained

1 (2m 16s):
Neli Patel, Editor-in-Chief of The Verge. You're on TikTok, right?

6 (2m 19s):
I'm on TikTok as a viewer. I have a burner that no one knows about, but then I am on TikTok, on The, Verge channels all the

1 (2m 26s):
Time. As a person with potentially multiple TikTok accounts, can you tell me how important music is to the platform?

6 (2m 34s):
TikTok is built on music.

0 (2m 37s):
Imma Savage.

7 (2m 41s):
It

6 (2m 41s):
Came to this country as part of an acquisition. So by dance, which owns TikTok. Bought a platform called Musically, which was teenagers dancing to Music. I'm

8 (2m 49s):
Gonna show you how to get,

6 (2m 53s):
And it has built itself on the back of people using music, making music for the platform, creating dance trends, recontextualizing music, bringing back old music. All of TikTok is built around music. Music functions almost as the organizing principle of TikTok.

1 (3m 19s):
But some days ago, things got kind of quiet on TikTok. What happened?

6 (3m 23s):
So Universal Music, which is the largest record label in the world, one of the most powerful record labels in the world, it represents Taylor, swift and Drake and Bad Bunny, you name it, pulled their music off of TikTok and said, TikTok is trying to bully us. They want to pay under the market rate for licensing our catalog. We're not going to accept the low rates. Our music is gone until TikTok can pay us like the major social network they are.

9 (3m 45s):
I care more deeply about real music and real opportunity in real artists than I do algorithms pushing inexpensive things or fake products or FinTech. I don't like people cheating.

1 (3m 60s):
And like these musicians you quote, you know, bad Bunny, Drake, Taylor, swift, three of the biggest musicians in the world. Are they okay with this? They're good with all their music being ripped off. TikTok.

6 (4m 10s):
I think the big artists are totally okay with this. They all want more money. They know they're the lifeblood of the platform. They know the fans are gonna seek them out regardless. It's the up and coming artists who get discovered on TikTok, who become popular on TikTok that are probably the most worried. Mm. And that is an interesting split as this conflict stretches out that has yet to come into the public consciousness. We haven't seen any evidence of that split being real, but over time, if this stretches on, I think that's the split. We're gonna see.

1 (4m 40s):
Who loses more here? Neli in the spat. Is it musicians? Is it labels or is it TikTok?

6 (4m 46s):
Far and away The loser Right now is TikTok. You have an entire base of TikTok creators who don't have access to the thing they care about the most, which is music. If you look at the bottom of every TikTok video, there's an audio file, right? It tells you what audio is being used. Oftentimes it's songs, most of the times it's even maybe it's songs. Those songs, if you click on them, you can see all the other videos that use that audio. That is how TikTok is organized it. It is the first order bit of organization on TikTok, and it's gone. It's silent. There are creators complaining that their entire archives of content are just muted because the music isn't there anymore.

10 (5m 25s):
It took my sound origin videos down. They took my sample videos down.

11 (5m 31s):
Yeah, I mean, my career is over for sure. I'm never gonna have a hit song ever again at this race,

12 (5m 36s):
You know? So my songs aren't gonna be on there anymore. I won't be able to promote my music on TikTok anymore. And you know, I'll probably be okay, right? I'll land on my feet, right?

10 (5m 45s):
UMG, just please put Taylor Swift back on the platform.

6 (5m 58s):
And if you cannot provide that value to your creators as a platform, suddenly they might start thinking that other platforms like Instagram reels or YouTube shorts can provide that audio can provide that audience and they might spend time over there. Hmm, that hasn't happened yet. It's not been so many days. I think everyone is assuming that this will get resolved. But one of the main things a platform provides to its creators is licensing is music. Licensing is protection from copyright, craziness is fair. Use all of that stuff. Creators don't have to worry about it when they make content for a big platform. And Right. now in the case of TikTok, they really have to worry about it. So

1 (6m 36s):
How did TikTok let this happen?

6 (6m 39s):
If you're running TikTok, you know that you are the engine of music discovery in America and possibly the world. And not just discovery of new artists. These massive music catalogs that are getting sold and resold for billions of dollars. Right. now they are becoming more valuable again because of TikTok. So old music is coming back around in style, hitting the charts again because of TikTok, which is wild to consider. That is not a thing that has happened previously in the history of music. That Stevie Nicks is just a superstar. Again, because a guy was skateboarding listening to Fleetwood Mac.

13 (7m 14s):
I'm gonna have to call him and thank him, you know? Oh, you mean the TikTok guy? The TikTok guy, yeah. Because you have to understand, I'm not on TikTok, I'm not on Instagram, I'm not on Facebook. I don't have a computer, but I have to call him and tell him, thank you so much because you know what you did? You brought this music back to the world all by yourself.

6 (7m 43s):
That's TikTok. That's tiktoks power in the culture. And I think it is on balance a good thing. TikTok creates new artists. It creates new relationships with artists. It preserves fans, relationships with older artists. It recontextualizes old music. There's a conversation happening about music and its place and culture that is new and I think fresh and interesting. That is driven by TikTok. TikTok knows that's the value it provides the music industry and it knows the music industry doesn't have great answers of its own on how to break new artists without social platforms, without TikTok. So I think it's saying the Universal, Hey, we're providing you all this value. You can go away. You won't have the ability to break any new artists ever again.

6 (8m 23s):
And they have run tests in Australia. They ran a test saying, we're not gonna show new artists to people just to see what happens. What were they trying to prove? Hey, no new artists are breaking up the Australian market. Hmm. So TikTok is trying to demonstrate this leverage, and I think Right now, they're trying to say, look, that's the value we provide. It's not just dollars. And I think Universal is saying, yeah, but your whole platform is built on the music that our artists make. You have to pay us for it. There's gonna come a a, a meeting in the minds. There will come a middle point. I don't think it's gonna last forever, but that's tiktoks leverage and I think they're very clear on it.

1 (8m 57s):
This is all about money. So let's talk about money. How much was TikTok paying to license Universal's music? And how much does Universal want now?

6 (9m 6s):
So we don't have hard numbers to go on. Ah, we can backtrack the numbers from a clue that Universal put out. And it's a letter saying, we're leaving TikTok. Universal said, TikTok is 1% of our revenue. Universal is a public company according to music business worldwide, which is a trade publication. They backtrack the numbers. That means TikTok is paying Universal about $110 million a year. Hmm. That's not a lot of money. Bigger platforms like Meta are in the range of 200 to $300 million a year. That covers Instagram and Facebook. The streaming services like Spotify and YouTube pay vastly more money. Mm. So TikTok is a drop in the bucket of Universal's revenue.

6 (9m 46s):
It's not a lot of money, but if you're Universal and you're saying, okay, cruel Summer by Taylor Swift hit number one again when she went on tour because kids on TikTok were playing the song and dancing the song and thinking about the song. That's worth an awful lot of money to TikTok. That is a cultural moment that TikTok got to profit off of And. we deserve a huge percentage of that money as well.

1 (10m 8s):
Do we know who might blink first here? TikTok or Universal?

6 (10m 12s):
My instinct is that TikTok will blink first. And I have that instinct because I know that Universal won't Right. now, Universal, Universal, CEO, Lucian Grange is pushing very hard against things like generative AI on platforms. They have pushed YouTube into a deal where YouTube is going to allow Universal to take AI generated copies of artists like Drake off the platform, which is not really in copyright law. There's no legal precedent for doing that, but Universal has so much power over YouTube. They said, give us that power anyway. And YouTube basically caved. So I think Universal is riding high in its power. It's riding high in that the sort of moral leverage it has with its artists and with the fans of the artists who understand that artists should get paid.

6 (10m 56s):
That things like social platforms like AI are all threats to these big artists, and they're gonna use that leverage for everything that it's worth. TikTok at the same time is beginning to squeeze its users, right? It's, it's not up and coming. It's not burning a bunch of money to acquire users anymore. It's saying we gotta make a bunch of money from all the users we have. So you see, TikTok is pushing sponsored content all over the place. You see that TikTok Shop has just appeared in the cultural consciousness because TikTok is constantly showing you TikTok Shop live streams, and they put it at the top of the menu bar.

6 (11m 37s):
And so there's a real turn for that platform here where the ascendancy of a social platform, when it's new and interesting and free and organic, is beginning to taper into what you might call the top when it is beginning to become ruthlessly monetized. And I think it's an appropriate reaction for the labels to say, okay, you're starting to ruthlessly monetize this platform. We deserve a big cut of that because we allowed you to build on the cheap

1 (12m 10s):
Neela Patel. He runs The Verge dot com. And if you wanna hear from him more often, his podcast is called Decoder. When we're back on today explained it sure feels like every social media platform eventually just gets worse. There's a term for that. We're gonna speak to the guy who coined it.

Constant Contact (12m 34s):
Support for the show already comes from constant contact. Constant Contact isn't just something your parents are always asking for. It's also the name of a company helping business owners stand out and connect with their customers. And that's huge because keeping your business top of mind is a never ending struggle. I'm told there's a ton of noise out there. And if you're not working to stay relevant, your message might get drowned out. Enter Constant Contact. Constant Contact is a marketing platform that makes it easy to reach new audiences, grow your customer list, and connect over email, text, social media and more. Whether you're a marketing guru or just learning the ropes, constant Contact offers writing assistance tools and automation features that make it simple to say the right thing at the right time. Every time You can get going and start growing your business today with a free trial@constantcontact.com, you can go to constant contact.com. Right now Constant Contact helping the small stand tall. Constant contact.com

Vibe Check (13m 38s):
Support for today Explained comes from Vibe Check. It's a show from the great Sam Sanders. You know him from Intuit, you know him from, it's been a minute, and now you must know him from Vibe Check. Every week, Sam and his two best friends, the writer Saeed Jones, and the journalist and producer Zach Stafford, try to make sense of what's going on in the news and culture. And sometimes they succeed. They talk. Elon Musk, foreign policy, pumpkin Spice, usher Breakups, a live show with Penn Badley. They check the vibe of what's going on in the world and how it all feels. They're doing a series called Jesus, where they're highlighting the compelling stories of black women and their achievements. Special guests include Regina King, ADI Cornish, Raquel Willis, and Moore Vibe. Check is your favorite group chat come to life. You can join the weekly Kiki every Wednesday. You can listen to and follow vibe, check wherever you get your podcasts.

Noom (14m 37s):
Support for the program today comes from Noom who would like to remind you that your body is like no one else else's. Your body is a snowflake, and they wanna help you with your snowflake according to Noom. They build a plan specifically for you based around psychology and biology, even helping you understand why you might crave that one specific food at the same time every day. I've never craved the same food at the same time every day. But maybe Vox is Sarah Frank has Using Noom. I liked how easy it was to get set up and I liked their super friendly features that allowed me to track and input my workouts, goals, moods, and stress levels every day. You can stay focused on what's important to you with noom psychology and biology based approach. Sign up for your trial today@noom.com. That's NO m.com.

17 (15m 33s):
Wake up

1 (15m 34s):
In the morning feeling like today explained Ramis Ferrum Neli is gone. But we got Corey Doctorow in his stead. Corey's an author, an activist, an extremely online dude, but he does not use,

17 (15m 46s):
I use TikTok like a Gen Xer. I look at clips that have been uploaded to Twitter,

1 (15m 50s):
But he gets it.

17 (15m 52s):
Oh, I get it. No, no, no, I get it. It it has a spookily good recommendation engine. And, and you know, there is part of the source of all of its mischief because, you know, they spying you a lot. They acquire third party data sets. They use that data to make predictions about what you're gonna wanna see, and they show it to you and it's generally pretty good. But they also abuse that power, right? Because most of tiktoks users are using it as a kind of surprise medium, right? And so that means that you're trusting TikTok not to game the system, right? Not to use the fact that you've said, oh, anything you wanna cram into my eyeballs, I'll take a look at. So, you know, please don't like sell people the right to cram things into my eyeballs that I'm not interested in seeing or abuse that so that you can trick people into thinking that they're more popular in the platform than they really are, so that they put a lot of energy into making content for it.

17 (16m 43s):
And, and that's where it all goes wrong, because so long as it's good enough, we will just keep allowing them to do that non-consensual cram down of stuff we don't want to hear or see provided that there's enough of a residue of things that seem good.

1 (16m 57s):
And this is why we reached out to Cory because Cory coined the term for what's going on at TikTok Right now.

17 (17m 3s):
Well, I think that it's, it's something that, you know, I've called enshittification colloquially, I think a lot of people just use it to mean things are getting worse. But for me it's a very technical phrase or a technical word that describes of a specific process by which digital platforms use the particular contours of how digital services work to first lure in end users by giving them a good deal and then making that deal worse for them, but better for business customers who pay to access those end users. And then once everyone is locked in, take away all the surplus from both end users and business customers. Give it all to the shareholders and leave everyone in an increasingly worse service that just gets shittier and shittier until it turns into a pile of shit.

1 (17m 44s):
Okay. So I wanna ask you about TikTok in a moment in greater detail, but before we do that, can you give us the greatest enshittification story?

17 (17m 53s):
Yeah, Facebook's a poster child, right? This is a company that, you know, began its life as a service to non consensually rate. The fuckability of Harvard undergraduates and only got worse after that

18 (18m 3s):
Billy Olson sitting here and had the idea of putting some of the pictures next to pictures of farm animals and have people vote on who's hotter a pig. Good call

17 (18m 10s):
Mr. Olson. But in, in 2006, Zuckerberg said, okay, well we're gonna open up beyond college campuses. And, and the pitch that they made to people was, Hey, I know that like you're all on MySpace and that's where your friends are, but did you know that MySpace was run by a, you know, pulant, senescent evil Australian billionaire named Rupert Murdoch, who spies on you with every hour that God sends if you come over to Facebook, we'll never spy on you. Facebook is the non spying on you version of MySpace.

1 (18m 39s):
Wow, I forgot about that.

17 (18m 41s):
Yeah. Yeah. They, they made a promise. And in fact, at one point they let the users vote on whether or not Facebook should start spying on them. And they voted against it and Facebook did it anyway. And they said to those users, Hey, if you just tell us who matters to you on Facebook, we're just gonna show you what they post in reverse chronological order. And then once those users were all locked in, they started to make things worse for them. They went to publishers and they said, Hey, do you remember when we told these rubes, we would only show them the things that they asked to see? That was a lie. If, if you want to just post excerpts of the content from your website along with a link, we'll just show it to them, even though they never asked to see it. It's a free traffic funnel. Some of those users will subscribe to you and they'll see everything you post.

17 (19m 23s):
Others will get algorithmically boosted content. And they went to the advertisers and they said, Hey, do you remember we told these, these rubes that we weren't gonna spy on them? Also a lie, we're spying on them from asshole to appetite. We will target ads to them in the most fine grained hideous way imaginable. We're not gonna charge you very much for this. We have a building full of engineers that are gonna fight ad fraud, and then they just use the characteristics of digital to make that subtly worse over time. They, they dial down the quantity of stuff that was in your feed that you'd ask to see bit by bit, drip by drip. If you stop going to Facebook as often they increase the amount of stuff you'd asked to see. But, but so long as the, that amount was going down, there was more space they could fill with things people would pay to make.

17 (20m 6s):
You see whether that was advertisers or publishers. And then, you know, Facebook and Google had this illegal collusive arrangement they called Jedi Blue where they rigged the market. So they charged advertisers more and and paid publishers less. So they made things worse for everyone. And that's where Facebook is now, right? It's this company that has left just this kind of fine residue of things that are useful in the service. And it's trying to surf this wave where they're right at the crest of there being no value at all in this service or just enough value that you don't leave. Because if, if, if they leave any more value than that on the table, then that's value that their shareholders could be getting. And they don't want to give you that value.

17 (20m 47s):
They want to, to take it for themselves. And it's a, a razor thin edge that they're walking on. And it, it takes, you know, one Cambridge Analytica scandal or whistleblower or livestream mass shooting and people bowl for the exits. And you know, when that happens on tech platforms, the platforms panic. And what tech bros call panicking is pivoting. And so, you know, in Facebook you get this pivot that is like, alright, stop arguing with your racist uncle in this text chat from now on The future is allowing Facebook to convert you into a legless, sexless, low polygon, heavily surveilled cartoon character in a virtual world called the Metaverse that we stole from a 25-year-old cyberpunk novel.

19 (21m 27s):
Imagine you put on your glasses or headset and you're instantly in your home space. It has parts of your physical home recreated virtually. It has things that are only possible virtually and it has an incredibly inspiring view of whatever you find most beautiful.

1 (21m 43s):
I think you importantly point out though, Cory, that even once a platform or a service is and ified people stick around, I stick around on Instagram even though it upsets me. I'm still on Twitter even though Elon, what have you, what receipts do you have to show that TikTok is currently being inify? 'cause certainly a lot of people are still there.

17 (22m 6s):
Well, I think that, that there's lots of different bits and pieces. You know, you can look at things like the, the scandal over the heating tool where it was revealed by a Forbes reporter that in, in addition to having algorithmic allocation of attention, that the platform was also picking performers.

20 (22m 26s):
One of the ways that TikTok has tried to convince these potential partners that they should be on TikTok is to show them that their content can do really well there. And sometimes that means heating their content to prove, see, if you come to TikTok, life will be good for you here.

17 (22m 42s):
And then when people didn't get the eyeballs that the people who'd been heating tools were getting, they said, oh, you just must be bad at TikTok. Try harder. Mm. So, you know, you've got that on the performer side. And, and then on the user and performer side, you've got the, the willingness of TikTok to walk away from its license with Universal. Now I'm not gonna cape for Universal. I mean this is a company that is a, a big evil monopolist, but I think that the calculus that TikTok is making is that they would rather inflict pain on their customers than on their shareholders. Hmm. And so whatever it is that Universal was asking their customers could live with that pain with having the videos that they worked on for hours or days or weeks and put maybe thousands of dollars into suddenly rendered silent because TikTok decided not to step up for their interests.

1 (23m 32s):
But TikTok wants people to stick around. Why does TikTok make the experience worse when they want people to stick around?

17 (23m 39s):
Well, they don't have to care. They're the phone company, right? What Google figured out that spending $25 billion a year on being the default search engine for every single service platform, portal, site, and device was cheaper than competing with people who might make a better search engine than them. And so they spent $25 billion a year, they lit a whole ass Twitter on fire every, you know, 22 months to make sure that you never tried another search engine. And so they don't have to care if the only search engine you ever try is Google, then Google doesn't have to be as good.

1 (24m 20s):
And, and do you believe that there is a way to restore the good in a platform that has become and ified? Do you think stronger market protections, stronger regulation, stronger employee rights at a tech company, whatever it might be, could actually restore something that has already completely fallen off?

17 (24m 42s):
I don't think we need to make these platforms better. I just think we need to make it so that when they collapse, they don't take us down with them. So, you know, we have companies like Google that have made one successful in-House product, a 25-year-old search engine. And then almost with that exception, everything else they made in-house was a failure. And everything that they've got, that's a success. Their mobile platform, ad tech, server management, collaboration docs, maps, satellites, whatever, those are all companies they bought from someone else. They're not Willy Wonka's Idea Factory. Their rich uncle Penny bags operationalizing other people's good ideas.

17 (25m 25s):
And so, you know, those companies would've just collapsed under their own weight back. When we enforced antitrust law and rules against vertical and horizontal mergers, we've allowed these companies that would've normally either knock, gotten off the ground or would've collapsed under their own weight. We've allowed them to grow and take over. And so now they're on fire, right? Because we stop the good fire, the controlled burns, and now we have the wildfire of these companies not being able to do the job that we need them to do. So everything is on fire all the time. And what we should be doing is not figuring out how to make it safe to live at that place that keeps catching fire. We want to evacuate the fire zone. We have to make it easy for people to leave the platforms, not try and make the platforms better.

17 (26m 10s):
Screw the platforms, let 'em die. Right? What we need is for people to leave the platforms with their data, their relationships, and the value they get from them intact.

1 (26m 26s):
Corey Doctorow, he's pretty hardcore. People call him hard, Corey. He's with the Electronic Frontier Foundation. They fight for digital human rights. Andy's got a book coming out. It's a Silicon Valley finance thriller about a forensic accountant who runs down high tech scams. It's called The Bezel. Find it wherever you read. Hottie Big Dog Mawajdeh produced our program today with an assist from Amanda, big Dog, Lou Ellen. Matthew Collette edited Laura Bullard FactCheck Rob Byers mixed it. But wait, there's more of us here. Halima Shaw, Abhai Artsy, Patrick Boyd, miles, Bryan Victoria Chamberlain, Jesse Alejandro Rell, supervising producer Amman Sade, executive producer Miranda Kennedy.

1 (27m 11s):
Co-host with the most Noel King. We use Music by Breakmaster Cylinder today. Explained is distributed by WNYC. This show is a part of Vox, which is totally free. Thanks in part to contributions from our listeners, you can join us at Vox dot com slash give thanks if you do. Thanks for listening. Thanks for everything.