3 (7s):
There are so many protests going on around the world right now. It's kind of hard to keep track of them. They can even sound completely different in Hong Kong. They've got vigils. In Lebanon, they've got Raves. And in Chile, they've got a pop song in the fantas Metro speed and Lorraine.

3 (52s):
This is casserole a so by a French Alain musician named anesthesia casserole also has become an Anthem for the ongoing. Protests in Chile, some of these protests have been peaceful others violence in Chile. They've prevented transit fare hikes from being imposed in Lebanon. They've toppled the government today. We're going to try and figure out why it seems like people in every corner of the world are taking to the streets right now. I asked Max Fischer to help he's been covering the protest for the New York Times and we started with where the protests are

1 (1m 36s):
happening. Oh man. It's honestly really hard to keep track. I mean the big ones right now are chilly Lebanon and Iraq, but there's also been really big recent protests in Bolivia and Ecuador in Spain Russia before that in the Czech Republic in Algeria and Sudan in Kazakhstan. It's almost easier to list the countries that haven't had these, you know, huge historic record breaking

3 (2m 6s):
uprisings. It's hard to look at all of this happening at the same time and not see some sort of correlation or or want to see a correlation. Is that the right way to approach thinking about these protests or or is that misguided if you just look

1 (2m 23s):
on the surface for you know, what are the protests a are there big motivations or what are the protesters say? They're upset about Out then it becomes really hard to find commonalities, you know in some countries. It'll be you know, an increase of attacks and some it'll be well local government is not responsive and others that will be public corruption, you know, it'll be disputed election results or it'll be you know, my demographic group is not being paid attention to but if you kind of look at the data, you'll see that there has been this incredible mounting trend for decades now of Peaceful anti-government protests getting more and more common all around the world and that effect is cumulative because it creates all this information.

1 (3m 9s):
You know, these are all on the news internationally and people see it happening and it creates a sense of norms that we can do it too. We can take over the streets and force change and that this is a legitimate and worthwhile way to force the change that we're not getting through elections or political

3 (3m 28s):
parties. Hmm. Well Let's go through some of them starting with Lebanon where I think we've seen the most news recently.

1 (3m 35s):
Lebanon has had a very corrupt broken government for a long time. I mean it is a democracy. There's political parties there's elections, but nobody in Lebanon has ever really thought that they were particularly responsive the approximate trigger for the most recent round of protests. There is corruption the top of the government Saad Hariri the prime minister. It turned out to pay millions of dollars. I believe it was own money, not of government money to a South African model and so on the surface are the protesters upset about the payment. No, they're upset about public corruption. They're upset about the party system is not working for them and most immediately.

1 (4m 18s):
There was a tax on WhatsApp calls that everybody was upset about Lebanon is in the grip of unprecedented protests

3 (4m 25s):
triggered in part by a plan to tax calls on WhatsApp and other messaging Since but I've turned into a revolt against a weak government ailing services and a looming economic collapse

1 (4m 36s):
the way that all of these links together in Lebanon is a sense that there's us the people over here. Just trying to get by and not seeing things improved for us the way that we expect them to and then over there. There's the kind of governing Elite who doesn't really have anything to do with us and they're paying off models in South Africa and then imposing these Petty taxes on us that just prove that they're all corrupt and that At the system as a whole is

3 (5m 1s):
broken and these protests culminated on Tuesday when the Prime Minister stepped down. Yeah in in

1 (5m 7s):
Lebanon and a lot of countries. They actually have been quite successful at forcing change in Lebanon. The Prime Minister stepped down

3 (5m 19s):
five minutes s artery announced his resignation standing in front of a portrait of his late father former prime minister rafik Hariri.

1 (5m 28s):
This the alt a hot tub with a sorrowful Hunter is so cool million and Manasseh the true. Hope TG the Mahem Quran with Sally until ballot in Iraq at looks quite likely the same could

3 (5m 44s):
happen. They chanted free Baghdad corrupt officials out Iraqis demanded the resignation of prime minister Abdullah Abdullah. He and his

1 (5m 53s):
government chilly. It's not clear, but there's at least enough pressure that the Didn't is clearly feeling really

3 (5m 59s):
risk just hours before Chilean president Sebastián piñera replaced a third of his cabinet and an effort to assuage the public anger Gina. This is not the same chili from a few weeks ago. Chile has changed and the new government must change with it to confirm these new challenges and these new times

1 (6m 20s):
all these countries have announced reforms trying to meet the protesters demands other none of it seems to have really a sweet. The protesters which I think is one of the signs that there's something deeper going on here than just, you know anger over WhatsApp tax.

3 (6m 39s):
The WhatsApp tax seems to sort of compared to what happened in Chile in a really obvious way because those protests started with an increase in metro transit fares. Are they comparable in other ways? Yeah. I mean if you talk to

1 (6m 53s):
people in Chile, they won't say we're coming out and you know filling the streets and burning buildings downtown because we're mad about a slight transit fare hike what they'll say is that we feel like we were promised this kind of Right future and we never got it and instead what we see happening is the government looking for a little incremental ways to Rob us of our hard-earned money. And that just goes to show that they've sold out our future and everything that they cite about. It's becoming much harder to save for retirement with things like privatized pension system.

1 (7m 34s):
There's not the same social and economic Mobility that people expected or absolutely true but In at the same time, if you look at the kind of macroeconomic Trends inequality is down in Chile GDP is up poverty is way down but it's clear that that is not actually the deeper trigger for what is happening because if it were then you would expect to see any quality going up. Okay. That's why people going into the streets. There's something much deeper in almost all of these cases that they feel a sense that they have to take these tremendous risk. And that it's also worth taking to try to force change from the streets rather than through elections about box and political parties even knowing that the kind of risk that they're going to be

3 (8m 20s):
facing by tremendous risks. I assume you're talking about life or death situations, which we've also seen in Iraq in

1 (8m 29s):
Iraq. There's been kind of a rolling wave of protests for I mean basically like a year and a half so it's honestly hard To identify a single trigger. It's really kind of a protest movement that has been building a long time over instances of corruption local government councils that are seen as just, you know, irredeemably corrupt and unresponsive and then cycles of government Crackdown that have been just really horrific lie violent have kind of built on public outrage and built on this sense that the government is against the people instead of for the

3 (9m 8s):
people.

1 (9m 15s):
So in Chile in Iraq, there's been just really shocking

3 (9m 20s):
violence.

1 (9m 28s):
Both of those cases. It's building off of legacies of internal conflict and dictatorship in Chile, which was a military dictatorship up until 1990, which is is really recent. The government was pretty quick to put Troops into the streets to put down the protests and troops are not police. They're trained to use deadly force and that is what they did. It's the worst crisis the country has seen in more than three

3 (9m 57s):
decades a violent Crackdown by police and military and Chile against thousands of demonstrators has left several debt thousands of others have been arrested

1 (10m 7s):
and that has really shocked people and really turn people out and made them really angry. Iraq has been far deadlier. I think it's over 200 people killed. so far

3 (10m 18s):
This time Security Forces fire tear gas at the marches, but they have been using live ammunition for weeks adding to the rising death toll officials confirmed that masked Armed Forces fired on protesters on Monday night

1 (10m 35s):
and this again Builds on a recent history of the Iraqi State using violence to dispel protesters, which is also connected to its history of internal conflict. Lebanon has been more peaceful and that has to do with just the weakness of the state. There's just not this kind of centralized military centralized militia, even though there's a lot of militias and government that is going to be willing and able to go out and use that kind of force and also just because there's more of a norm and history of peaceful protest in Lebanon.

3 (11m 14s):
Does that mean that even though we're seeing more and more protests across the world that governments aren't necessarily getting better at dealing with them

1 (11m 23s):
governments are actually getting much better at stopping protest from succeeding. And that's true of democratic governments and authoritarian governments. There was this really fascinating study put up by Erica Chenoweth who studies protests and Uprising at Harvard that track The success rates of nonviolent protest movements over time and she found this really striking change the success rates. The protest had been growing steadily since World War II basically throughout the modern era and they hit a peak of 70% success rate, which is basically most of them in the mid-2000s and then all of a sudden that change that Trend reversed and their success rate has now plummeted to 80% which is really Bleak government violence is actually down against protest the violence still happens, but governments have gotten a lot more effective at kind of co-opting protest waiting them out using monitoring technology to figure out you know, who are the protest leaders that they can selectively arrest or run out of the country to keep the protest from gaining enough momentum to force government

3 (12m 39s):
change not to bring in Puerto Rico to the mix, but there you saw these masks. Protests demanding a change of government that change of government was realized and then things seem to not necessarily get much better is does that still count as a success? And it will that maybe be the case in Lebanon or Iraq or even chili?

1 (12m 58s):
That's a really good point and that gets to part of why we are seeing protests become so much more common is that protests have gotten really successful especially in Latin America at forcing a change of leader, but because what often is actually motivating the protest is a sense that the system is a whole is unresponsive changing out the president or the Prime Minister will not actually fix the underlying issue and that is part of why we see these recurring cycle of protest where protests will come out. They will manage to force some set of reforms maybe the Prime Minister resigns.

1 (13m 42s):
Maybe they don't manage to get that. But either way the underlying political system does not change and so sure enough. They're back out on the streets

3 (13m 51s):
now just to be sure here. Are you saying that they're there are more protests now globally but less success is that when I was getting there.

1 (13m 60s):
Yes that historically they are at an all-time high and the success rate has plummeted from also their all-time high in the mid 2000s to now the lowest they've been since I think the

3 (14m 12s):
1950s So how do we explain that?

1 (14m 16s):
I mean the world is changing in a couple of big ways that are creating this set of on the one hand Rising expectations. The things that make people want democracy things like a rising middle class access to information education rates. Those things are still Rising. So you're getting this buildup of pressure that used to be released by governments becoming interested incrementally more democratic, but now they're not and in many cases are reversing said that frustration is getting released as mass protest partly because people don't see elections and political parties as a way to force change in the way that they used to but you're also seeing a set of changes that just make people more frustrated with the system and more likely to distrust the system as a whole economic changes have led to some real stalls in growth people used to to expect that they were going to do better and better and better and now they're not or at least not as much as they thought they were going to social polarization is way up which makes people more distrustful of society as a whole and another big change is social media.

1 (15m 28s):
It used to be that in order to get you know, a hundred thousand or million people in the street. It would take years of organizing Grassroots building organization building maybe a decade of work and now because of social media that's something that you can do in Matter of weeks or months which creates more protests but they're thinner is the way that some researchers put it because there's not that underlying organization behind it. Not that underlying kind of Grassroots work the underlying sentiment behind what we're seeing now is really similar to the big populist backlash that we saw across North America and Europe a few years ago.

1 (16m 9s):
It's this sense that Elites have sold us out and the sense that there our social changes that are making you know, quote-unquote us lose out and the way that that was expressed in developed democracies. Like, you know, the UK France the United States was to vote in these populist Outsider anti-system candidates and parties that would promise to tear everything

3 (16m 32s):
down and none of this has really been resolved yet.

1 (16m 36s):
I mean all of the trends that have been driving their rise the Solider democracy the rise of social media rise of social polarization. All of those show every indication of continuing to mount. So there's no reason to expect that regular repeated unrest wouldn't continue growing and wouldn't grow more common, especially now that we're seeing this contagion effect really pick up where One countries protest inspiring others

3 (17m 1s):
Max Fischer co-authors The Interpreter column at the The New York Times and a Weekly Newsletter of the same name. They're both all about explaining major developments around the world. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today explained.