1 (1s):
Once upon a time, right on the edge of the forest, if a golden head girl, this golden yellow head girls name was Goldilocks. Once upon a time, that time being 2019, the U S economy was doing something very strange and very good. And she came across the house of the bear family in between the trees. Two things were happening. Inflation was low, but not zero. There was growth and unemployment was low, but there were still out of work people to fill new positions. She tipped her spoon into the smallest one.

1 (43s):
It's neither cold nor hot. It was just right. It's today explained I'm Noel king coming up. The bear market is getting closer. The Goldilocks economy has fled out of back window. What is coming next?

Mattress Firm (1m 1s):
Hurry into mattress firm for a limited time, save up to $500. When you get a king bed for the price of a queen or a queen for a twin, plus get a free adjustable base with qualifying Sealy purchases up to $499 in value, or get up to 60% off America's top rated brands like Sealy queen mattresses starting at 2 79 99, or Sleepy's for 1 69 99 in stock for fast delivery. Only at mattress firm restrictions apply, see store or mattress firm.com for details.

The Dakota show  (1m 30s):
Dakota is a show, but how big ideas really work and where they might go wrong hosted by me, Neil Patel editor in chief of the Virgin. I interview CEOs, policymakers, tech, experts, and creators about how they make decisions and how those decisions affect our shared future for better or worse. Past episodes have covered everything from self-driving cars to crypto, to social media moderation. It's a thoughtful, critical conversation about business and technology that you will not hear anywhere else. Follow Dakota, wherever you find your podcasts, new episodes come out. Every Tuesday

2 (2m 13s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. I have reunited with my old friend, Jacob Goldstein. He's the host of what's your problem, which is a show about entrepreneurs and engineers and the problems that they're trying to solve. But once upon a time, Jacob and I worked at NPRs planet money, where we covered the Volcker rule and the Phillips curve and moral hazard and all of these other economic terms and phenomenon. But I don't remember us covering the Goldilocks era, which was the period we were living in. Then

5 (2m 40s):
Goldilocks, Sarah I'm thinking of is the period leading up to the pandemic, right? The sort of late teens in the U S in the late teens, there was this combination of things happening that you sort of shouldn't be allowed to get. There was a super low inflation, which is a big, important, nice the economy. The government was running pretty big deficits. You know, keeping things going and unemployment was really low. It was a good time to be a worker. There was demand for workers, workers, even at the lower end of the income distribution were getting raises. And so all of these things made for a really good robust economy.

5 (3m 23s):
And you very often can't have all of them together.

2 (3m 26s):
I assume people refer to it as the Goldilocks era because the story was, and you have two kids. And I imagine you will know it better, but she's a tiny home invader. She goes into the house of the three bears and she's like eating their food, sitting in their chairs, lying in their beds.

6 (3m 46s):
She tried lying down on the middle sized bed, but it was two songs.

2 (3m 52s):
And every time she finds one of them, that's perfect.

5 (3m 56s):
That's right. Something's too big. Something's too small. And then there's one, that's just right.

6 (4m 1s):
She tried lying down on the weed, little bad. It was just like her cozy bed at home. And so she went to sleep.

5 (4m 11s):
And so this world we were living in, in lots of ways was a total disaster, obviously, but just on this, on this macro economic balance of having a lot of government spending and great job market across the board and low inflation, like you normally don't get all of those things together. To the extent that it was like a mystery macro economists by the late teens were like, why is this happening? Why is inflation not going up? I mean, if you go back a few years before that in the, I guess it would have been early teens ish, you know, there was this question, right? Because traditionally what happens is, as the economy is recovering from a recession, unemployment falls and falls.

5 (4m 54s):
And then at some point it falls low enough that the economy starts to heat up. A lot. Workers are getting more and more raises a demand is going up. Companies are investing a lot. So there's all this spending and that starts to drive up inflation. And people assumed in this country that like, when we hit, oh, say 5% unemployment, that was a number for a long time, 5%. That's when that's, when inflation is going to start going up. And you know, we're going to need to worry about that again. But then we hit five is like, no, you know what? An inflation is still remarkably low. And then we hit four and a half still low hit for mug. You know what? Inflation's really low. Let's just keep going. Right. And so that was the essence of the Goldilocks period.

5 (5m 34s):
Inflation just stayed low sorta, no matter what

2 (5m 38s):
Did anyone get to an answer? How was it that you could have something that was just right?

5 (5m 46s):
So there are different answers, which is to say, there is no clear definitive answer, but there are ideas that make sense. So here are a few of those one is workers, even at low unemployment in today's economy have less bargaining power than they used to because of the decline of labor unions to a large extent, right? So if you go back to the 1970s, which is sort of the, you know, the, they call it the great inflation, it's the big inflationary moment in the U S in the last many decades,

7 (6m 21s):
Hard choice is unnecessary. If we want to avoid consequences that are even worse, I intend to make those hard choices. I have already vetoed bills that would undermine our fight against inflation.

5 (6m 34s):
A larger percentage of workers at that time were in unions and unions would build in a cost of living allowances, annual raises that would sort of go up in lock step with inflation. So that would drive up prices for the companies that employed them and the companies then would pass those prices along to consumers in the form of higher prices. Right? So one idea is, well, there's fewer workers in unions now. So even at a really low unemployment rate, workers individually are not bargaining as hard as a union would for raises. So that's one piece of it that seems reasonable. Another piece of it is a globalization, right?

8 (7m 11s):
We're living through an age of fundamental economic transformation.

5 (7m 15s):
We buy a much larger share of our stuff now from abroad than we did several decades ago. And as a result, we don't see higher prices so quickly when we have low inflation in the U S because we just keep buying stuff from other places. And the workers in China say aren't getting raises, then our prices, aren't going up on the TVs we're buying. So that's another one, a third one. That's really interesting. And I think is interesting to think about in terms of what's going on now is this idea of inflation expectations.

9 (7m 48s):
The key thing right now is you're starting to see inflation expectations rolling over because there's a big difference in the narrative of inflation, which is high and accelerating versus inflation, which is high and moderate. It,

5 (8m 3s):
You know, there's this idea of a, of a self fulfilling prophecy, right? Where if you believe a thing, it will come true. And that appears to be really important for inflation. If people expect there to be high inflation, they will change their behavior. Companies might build, you know, incremental price increases into long-term contracts workers, you know, to the extent they have bargaining power will demand more raises. And there's this idea that because inflation had been falling in low for a really long time by this Goldilocks period of the teens that everybody expected low inflation and those low inflation expectations contributed to the persistently low inflation.

2 (8m 48s):
So it's like, I mean, if we're sticking with the theme of fairytales, it's like Tinkerbell, like if you believe it, then it'll have,

5 (8m 56s):
It's really true.

10 (8m 58s):
Can you believe, oh, please, please believe,

5 (9m 2s):
I don't know the Tinkerbell story that well, but if it's, as you say it is, then it's perfect. 2% inflation, 2% CPI year over year. I believe

3 (9m 14s):
Peter

2 (9m 21s):
All right. So everybody is worried about inflation at the same time. Everyone who has any skin in the game in the stock market is concerned about what the past seven weeks have looked like when we talk about the Goldilocks period and how well things were going. Does that include Jacob? The fact that for so many years, the stock market just kept going up and up and up and up with a few instances of downs. But for the most part, that also seemed mysterious. How can it just keep doing so well?

5 (9m 51s):
Yes. And there's one more piece that we can introduce here that makes it all make sense. And that is interest rates basically, you know, so because inflation was so low, the fed kept interest rates low and low interest rates are great for financial assets for things like stock or even cryptocurrency, because, well, for a few reasons, I mean, one sort of simple mechanical reason is if you have money, extra money that you want to invest, you can either basically, you know, put it in the bank or buy bonds, or you can like buy stocks or buy Bitcoin.

2 (10m 26s):
No currency came into existence during the Goldilocks era, how does its creation and rise fit into the story that you're telling?

5 (10m 34s):
Oh, that's interesting. Well, so we can start with the financial crisis, right? The, the Bitcoin white paper sort of amazingly was just the, you know, the first, the first thing I ever published about Bitcoin was I believe October, 2008, right? So that is like the teeth of the financial crisis.

11 (10m 53s):
The Dow tumbled more than 500 points after two pillars of the street tumbled over the weekend, Lehman brothers, a 158 year old firm filed for bankruptcy.

5 (11m 4s):
Faith in the financial system is at a really low point. And Bitcoin is explicitly pitched as this alternative, right? You don't, you shouldn't trust the government. Look, the government's just bailing out the banks. They're all in bed with each other. They're corrupt and untrustworthy, look at this. You've just got to trust the code. Oh, Bitcoin, just trust the code. And so it's like this low key thing for awhile. And then this weird thing happened a few years later, right? Just as kind of, we're going into like core Goldilocks period of the teens. Bitcoin really largely crossed over, you know, it keeps sort of, it's like libertarian vibes, but in fact it became more and more institutionalized, right?

5 (11m 47s):
And so cryptocurrency crosses over from being like all about being outside the system to sort of cozying up to the system. And it's really in the pandemic, low interest rates. People have a lot of money in their pockets. Bitcoin has been around long enough to seem legit. It has the blessing basically of regulators. And that's really when it takes off

13 (12m 11s):
Fortune favors, the brave.

2 (12m 14s):
When did the Goldilocks era end? Is it ending now, did it end with the pandemic? Like when, when the history is written, what will it say

5 (12m 23s):
By the end of last year, more or less beginning of this year, it becomes clear that inflation is really bad For a while. It was like, oh, this inflation is just transitory. This was like the 20, 21 story. The fed used this word, transitory, which just means, oh, it's just passing by it's because reopening is like janky and supply chains are messed up. It's not real inflation, but by the end of last year, it became clear. It was, I dunno, non transitory it's just inflation. It was just regular inflation. And the fed was like, okay, we know what to do about inflation. We raise interest rates, right? We want to cool the economy. There's too much demand. The economy is too hot.

5 (13m 3s):
And raising interest rates is the sign for financial assets that like Goldilocks time is over right now. You can get more money by buying whatever lender lend the government money for 10 years. You know, you can get a little more money. You get a lot more for that now than you could a year ago. And you know, it's clear that this era of easy money, low interest rates is over at least for now. And that was like the needle that popped a lot of, I don't know, was it a bubble? Whatever that, that was a key thing that drove asset prices down that realization that the fed is going to raise interest rates

2 (13m 46s):
Up ahead. What comes after Goldilocks in this story? It's not bears.

Shopify (13m 55s):
If you're someone who sells things online, you need a commerce platform to make it easy to sell those things. Online. Shopify is the go-to choice for millions of different businesses. Shopify is all in one commerce platform includes everything you need to start, run and grow your business. It does not matter what you're selling. Shopify is giving entrepreneurs and startups the same set of resources that used to be reserved for bigger companies. That means businesses of all sizes can sell everywhere, sync up online and in-person sales and keep an eye on the data that matters most. Go to shopify.com/explained all lower case for a free 14 day trial and get full access to Shopify. As entire suite of features grow your business with Shopify, go to shopify.com/explained. Now that's shopify.com/explained.

Checkout.Com (14m 55s):
Online shopping has changed the way a lot of us live our lives. You girls got COVID. And yesterday I went online and I bought a pulse oximeter, which will be here by today. I'm told the ability to go online and buy almost anything in the world is very special, but there are bumps that can be smoothed out. If your business is trying to improve payment, performance, checkout.com might be able to help. checkout.com is a leading digital global payment solutions provider for brands like shine, Patrion, and Sony electronics with dedicated teams full of expertise in 19 offices, across five continents, it's built with performance, scalability and speed in mind. Online payments have changed a lot in the last several years and checkouts flexible system provides insights that help you get smart about your payments performance. You can rely on their expertise as you navigate an ever shifting digital world. Discover how checkout.com can help your business thrive. By going to checkout.com/explained that's checkout.com/explained

5 (16m 17s):
Jacob Goldstein, long-time economic supporter, host of the podcast. What's your problem? Is there a story that defines the moment we're in now? You want a nursery rhyme. I mean, right now, like we're in peril, right? There's people in peril all the time in fairytales, right? So this is kind of, I don't know, end of act one or middle of act two in the story, right? Like, because you know, unemployment is still very low right now. People are mostly focused on inflation, but like unemployment is still at historic lows. The, you know, there are two job openings for every unemployed worker.

5 (16m 57s):
Like this is incredible. It's a good time to be a worker right now. People are less focused on that because they see prices going up and they're like, price is going up as bad, but like the economy in a weird way right now, it's not fundamentally bad. It's just at great risk.

2 (17m 14s):
Okay. I Googled it while you were talking peril in the woods of folklore tale or pals in peril or penguin in peril. Apparently peril is a really big children.

5 (17m 27s):
Andy story is like some child is in peril, right? That's the story, are they going to be okay? And if it's like a, if it's like a 19th century story, they're going to die. And if it's a 20th century story, they're going to be okay. Right. So yeah, like, is it the grim version where like whatever the little match girl dies, I guess that sounds Christian Anderson or is it like the Disney version where like the sisters love each other in the end,

15 (17m 49s):
You've sacrificed yourself for me.

5 (17m 56s):
And we actually don't know right now, that's the thing. Like, we don't know that there's a very good chance that we could have a recession, right? Just to be clear, like inflation is quite high. The fed is raising interest rates. And what the fed wants to do is slow, demand, slow hiring, frankly, they don't want unemployment to be 0%. They want to keep it where it is now enough. So that inflation comes down, but they don't want to do it too much. Right. Because if they slow demand too much, then we'll have a recession. Now to be clear, we've been sort of conditioned, I think now to think of a recession as like 2008, it wouldn't have to be that bad.

2 (18m 40s):
Let's say we don't want to panic ourselves, but we worry. We might be headed into a recession. Are there two or three things that tell us, oh, we're definitely going down that road now.

5 (18m 52s):
Well, GDP is one, right? The, the, when we talk about the economy growing or shrinking, we're talking about GDP gross domestic product, which is basically the value of everything everybody makes at work in America. Essentially. In fact, GDP did contract. The last reading GED

17 (19m 8s):
P is a nasty minus 1.4 minus 1.4.

5 (19m 14s):
But everybody's like, no, don't, don't pay attention to that one. It was weird. It was like weird inventory things. So I'm taking everybody's word on that. I mean, the one that I sort of care about more, that feels real to me is, is jobs, right? We're still adding jobs.

18 (19m 29s):
If employment growth continues at this pace, the economy is set to recover. All of the jobs lost during the Corona virus, endemic by summer

5 (19m 39s):
People losing their jobs is bad, right? Like we can all agree, whatever you think like it's good when people get jobs it's bad when people lose jobs. So, you know, the jobs numbers come out every month, they're a good, reliable data set. And so if we start to see once where people are losing jobs a few months in a row, like we should worry.

2 (20m 2s):
You made the point just a second ago, that if we go into a recession in 20, 22, or if we have a recession of 20, 22 or 2023, it doesn't have to look like the recession of 2008. We've been friends for a long time. And I know that you don't like speculation, but what might the recession of 2020 to look like?

5 (20m 23s):
The recession of 2008 was not a normal recession. It was like a once every 50 or 70 years, I hope financial crisis. Right? And so it, it has sort of is scarring, right? I mean, but it's not normal. And there were lots of recessions between the great depression and the financial crisis of 2008 that we have sort of forgotten because they weren't that big of a deal, right. There was the.com bust around 2000

19 (20m 54s):
And you can get whatever you run@pets.com. Don't give up, don't get up.

5 (21m 1s):
You don't want to be glib about it. Right. People do lose their jobs, but you know, it might last for a few months, right. It might last for six months and then the economy comes back and unemployment goes back down and everything's okay. That's quite normal. And I think more likely certainly than like a financial crisis. So it's, it's bad, but it's not catastrophic. You don't have the government intervening in the economy. It doesn't feel like what's going on. It just feels like, oh, this is, this is bad. And I hope it ends soon.

2 (21m 33s):
Listen, I don't want to make fun of crypto. Even though I also do want to make fun of crypto. But when we talk about the.com bubble 20 years ago, the deal was that everyone realized some things were happening that were very dumb. Like the pets.com fiasco, this company is worth tens of millions of dollars. It's not actually worth anything. And while we've seen crypto crashing, I've been wondering, did everyone just realize something about cryptocurrency in the last couple of weeks?

5 (22m 2s):
If you go back several years, there was this idea about crypto, that it would be what they call an uncorrelated asset, which is a thing you can own that doesn't go up and down with lots of other things, which is kind of nice, right? Like most stocks say tend to go up and down together. And, you know, crypto was like this new, different thing, kind of like gold people compared it to gold.

21 (22m 23s):
This is a digital goal that has no safe Haven qualities that we're all looking for.

5 (22m 28s):
But over time, and especially over the last couple of years in this great boom in speculative assets fueled in part by really low interest rates and lots of money in people's pockets, crypto, and in particular speculative tech stocks started to move together quite closely, even just the NASDAQ, you know, the index of, of big tech companies and crypto, they basically moved up and down together. So crypto just became another kind of speculative tech bet. And I think that what we're seeing now with the move down, I mean, tech stocks are also down a ton, right? And I think both crypto and tech stocks went up in this free money, low interest rates, forever world, the Goldilocks world.

5 (23m 13s):
And this idea that the Goldilocks world is ending or is potentially ending, which is clear now is driving both tech stocks and crypto down.

2 (23m 24s):
I know very little about cryptocurrency other than it turns out everybody I know under the age of 35 has been investing in it. And one of the things I wonder is whether or not we are going to learn something from our, from our interactions, with this like new kind of currency, if it turns out that it's all been a bubble, what are the good lessons that we might learn?

5 (23m 48s):
There's, there's a big question that I still have about crypto, which is, is it going to be really useful for something other than gambling and speculating? And you know, it very well may have been a bubble, right? The price has clearly come down a lot, but if you look back over time, you see, historically there are these bubbles that leave useful technologies in their wake, right. There was a famous railroad bubble in England, in the 19th century. And like, lots of people lost a lot of money, but England wound up with like lots of railroads, which was good for England, right? And similarly in the.com bubble in this country, around the turn of the 20th century, there was this huge little sub bubble in a fiber optics, right?

5 (24m 36s):
These companies that were laying fiber optic lines went to crazy valuations and then the valuations plummeted. And so the investors who bought high lost a lot of money, but we got great fiber optic lines, which are great for sending data. Right? So a thing that's really interesting. And at some level to me, perplexing about crypto is like, it hasn't really worked yet for all of the smart people in all of the experiments. Like there is no crypto thing that normal people who don't care about crypto use, just because it's better, right? Like lots of people send remittances and pay high fees. Credit card fees are high. Like there are lots of places where like new payment rails would be really useful. And I keep hoping crypto could be that.

2 (25m 18s):
So we were in optimistic times, the Goldilocks era went on for years. You've talked a lot about how people's expectations determine what happens in the economy. Do you think that we get stuck in optimism mode? And we should actually be always thinking about how precarious all of this is. I mean, nobody could have predicted the pandemic, as you said, everyone said inflation was transitory. And now it's all in peril. What is the perhaps better way to respond to all of this?

5 (26m 1s):
So I want to separate inflation expectations from expectations about the world, right? Because we actually are, I think all better off if everybody expects that inflation is going to be low, because that actually contributes to inflation being low. That's a thing where if you believe that happy story it's actually makes you better off

2 (26m 27s):
Jacob Goldstein, his new show is called what's your problem. Our show today was produced by miles Bryan. It was edited by Matthew collect and engineered by Paul Monsey. And it was fact-checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Noel king it's today explained.