0 (0s):
Ahead on today explained Mexico's top cop is on trial in New York City. This was a guy who ran Mexico's equivalent to the fbi, the guy who advised the Mexican president on how to combat drug cartels, the guy who took down some of the top cartel leaders

1 (25s):
Del Cartel.

0 (27s):
But he's accused of being something of a double agent, of going after drug cartels publicly while making deals with some of the very same cartels privately.

2 (36s):
And now he's gonna be on trial before the same judge Brian Cogan. And in the same place with El Chapos on trial.

0 (46s):
And because he was trusted by United States Drug Enforcement. It's not just Hedo Garcia Luna on trial in New York City. It's the war on drugs.

4 (1m 1s):
It's the new year. And for some that means resolutions to eat healthy food and get in shape. You've probably heard the standard advice to lose weight, eat fewer calories than you burn. But we at Gastropod wanted to know, is a calorie a calorie no matter what food it comes from? And is one calorie for you the same as one for me to find out? We visit the rooms where calories are measured and the labs where scientists are proving that the numbers on our food labels are off sometimes by quite a bit. So is the calorie broken? Find gastropod and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

5 (1m 35s):
James Juan produced the hit horror film, Megan, he made the saw movies, he made the Conjuring. And he can see horror everywhere

6 (1m 45s):
At nighttime. If I hear something or I go somewhere and I think that there may be someone out there, I actually go, hello, is someone there?

4 (1m 56s):
I've

6 (1m 56s):
Actually found myself to have done that.

5 (1m 58s):
James Juan on why we always want to be scared. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast.

0 (2m 16s):
Okay, let's make a podcast. So let's have you start by just introducing yourself and telling us how you would like us to identify you on our show.

2 (2m 24s):
Well, my name is Penny Le. I identify myself as a woman, a Caribbean woman. I was born in Cuba. I have been living in Mexico for the last 20 years, but I'm only 35, so I'm not that old. 20 years sounds like that. My name is because of a song by the Beatles called Penny Lane.

3 (2m 46s):
Penny Lane.

2 (2m 49s):
But people calls me Penny here, which is nice because Penny is a really American name. I'm a, I'm an investigator reporter. I have been working as an investigator reporter all my career, and I have been obsessed with the person We are about to talk for 10 years now, more than 10 years.

0 (3m 7s):
So you're obsessed with this person we're about to talk about. Tell me why People who don't know anything about this person should be obsessed with this person.

2 (3m 15s):
Because this person is like a character of a spy movie. It's a person that combines politics, combines how a person can see themself in a, in a way that combines like Hollywood stuff with really high politics and power stuff. So it is one character that summarizes a lot of things that have been in the public interest for so many years, but at the same time, it's a complex character that has so many layers that I never get bored.

0 (3m 50s):
What is this character's name?

2 (3m 53s):
His name is he Garcia Luna. He was the former secretary of Public Security of Mexico. And right now he is accused here in New York of being sort of the right hand of Joaquin Chapman, the leader of the Sinoa cartel within the Mexican government.

0 (4m 19s):
Help us understand how this guy who's close to the DEA and working with the US government is now on trial in New York City for being a part of the drug trade.

2 (4m 31s):
Well, people will remember that in late 2018 and early 2019, Joaquin Chapman, the, the, the leader of the Sin cartel was in on trial here in New York.

9 (4m 45s):
Why is he being tried in Brooklyn?

10 (4m 49s):
That was one of several jurisdictions in the United States that had an indictment for him. Some of the others included Texas, California, Florida. But New York offers one of the highest security federal jails in the country in Manhattan, the mcc. And because the US government knows this is a high profile trial and wants a lot of eyes to be on it. So to maximize the press coverage

11 (5m 13s):
Point to you, this courthouse is operating like a fortress right now. Joaquin El Chapo Guzman is facing 17 counts including drug trafficking, kidnapping, and murder.

2 (5m 23s):
So in the middle of that trial in November of 20 18, 1 of the leaders of the Sinoa cartel said that, yeah, I was working with El Chapo, he was the leader of the Sinoa cartel, but guess what? We were bribing top Mexican officers to smuggle the drugs here

10 (5m 40s):
A lot. Bribes is a big part of it, paying the Mexican and Colombian authorities to make sure that the shipments get from South America to Mexico into the border without being intercepted by the authorities there.

2 (5m 56s):
And in the middle of that, he drops the Garcia Luna's name. And you can imagine that was a huge scandal in Mexico.

12 (6m 3s):
The

13 (6m 4s):
Drug trafficker rabata assured that Garcia Luna personally received briefcases from the sinoa cartel that contained between three and $5 million.

2 (6m 14s):
So Garcia Luna by then was living in Miami, but he took the first flight back to Mexico.

14 (6m 21s):
Garcia Luna denied this to journalist Enrique Hernandez of double radio.

15 (6m 28s):
I never received a penny and I had no contact with anyone regarding this encounter with any criminal. That is a

2 (6m 36s):
Lie. And he gave a bunch of interviews saying, no. Oh my God, I'm gonna sue this person. How can he say that he's a criminal? I was the leader of the government trying to capture these people and extradite them. But less than one year after that, so December of 2019, he was arrested here in, in, in the us.

12 (7m 4s):
He's

2 (7m 4s):
Gonna be on trial before the same judge Brian Cogan. And in the same place what El Chapo was on trial. So it's the most important case so far, the right from this big trial that was a lot in the news here in the US in 2018 and 2019.

0 (7m 23s):
And tell us his story. Where does it begin?

2 (7m 26s):
Well, he was born in Mexico City in 1968. You know, it was like working class neighborhood. His father has a moving business. He wanted to be a soccer player, so he tried to become a professional soccer player, but he couldn't make it because he was, I think he was not good enough. But then he moved to another career and he started starting engineering. And in the middle of that, he became a low ranking spike. He entered the equivalent in Mexico to the cia.

2 (8m 8s):
This is like the late eighties and really sun, just in about a decade, the guy becomes the head of the Mexican equivalent to the fbi. And then after that, he became, just in six years, he becames the head of the Mexican equivalent to the DHS plus the NSA plus the cia. So he became the most powerful people in the civilian government of Mexico. And also he became one of the most close persons in Mexico to the US government, and especially to the DEA and to the fbi.

0 (8m 47s):
Was he good at his job?

2 (8m 49s):
Well, he was good at selling himself that weekend. He was really good because he was like, his, his career was really fast. He grew up really fast in his career. Grew up is a way to say that in English. Grew

0 (9m 2s):
Up, you could say he advanced very quickly in his career or something. Yeah, but I like, I like the way you said it. I like the way you said it.

2 (9m 9s):
Well, he advanced really fast in his career and he became this person that was at some point he was managing millions of, of dollars from US taxpayers that were sent to Mexico to fight the war on drugs from 2001 to 2012. He was a top officer. So the guy was all the time in the news in Mexico, he was meeting with really important people from the, from the us. So he has pictures with Hillary Clinton, with Joe Biden. He was like a top top officer. He was in a lot of bilateral meetings. He was receiving awards from the CIA saying, oh, thank you for helping us. But the, the crazy thing is that now he is been accused here in New York, in, in the US Eastern District cart in Brooklyn of helping El Chapman and the Sinoa cartel to smuggle the drugs to the US while at the same time he was working with the DA and working for the Mexican government.

2 (10m 7s):
So the fascinating part is that he is accused of being sort of a triple agent working at the same time with the Mexican government, with the DEA and with the Chapo and the Sinoa cartel. And at the same time, he was seeing himself like a top spy. So this guy was obsessed, for example, with James Bond. So he went, when he turned it 50 years old, he organized a party with James Bond team. And he had, like, he ma his email, for example, his work email was a f i oh one. So he was the agent number one of the, of the agency that he was leading.

2 (10m 48s):
Shocking,

16 (10m 49s):
Positively shocking.

2 (10m 51s):
And he was also upset with a lot of things. American, for example, he had like a secret basement in his house with a lot of records from Abdon Summer. And he was also upset with csi. So he received part of the money from the US and he created a show, a TV show that was called The Team. And the TV show was to pro to like,

0 (11m 20s):
He, he had his own TV show in Mexico.

2 (11m 23s):
Yeah, yeah. They paid, they paid up to 11 million to create a TV show. And the one helicopter that was donated by the United States to Mexico to fight the war on drugs was in the trailer of the TV show saying, oh, these are the good cops from Mexico that are fighting the war on drugs. And then in 2012, the guy left office left the, the Mexican government, and he moves to Miami to a 3 million house.

2 (12m 6s):
It was like a super luxury lifestyle. It's hard to believe that you can pay all of that with just, you know, your salary as a public servant. The salary of a public servant in Mexico is less than the middle class salary in any part of the us. So I think you, it's, it's hard to believe that you can afford that. So he was living in Miami all that time after he left office until he was arrested in 2019. So he wa he got a really pretty cool life, but now he's in jail in Brooklyn. I'm telling you now you get what I'm obsessed with this guy

0 (12m 58s):
More with Penny in a minute on today, explained

19 (13m 10s):
Music, pop quiz time. Can you identify these three sounds? That's an 8 0 8. It's made by pitching and distorting the sound of a kick drum. And it's now replaced bass guitar in countless pop records from Drake to Kim Petris. Okay, number two, That's a vocal chop, a short sample of a singer cut up drenched in reverb and made totally ubiquitous through the hands of EDM producers like Skrillex. All right, last one. That's a Reese space. It's a sludgy synthesized baseline created by producer Kevin Reese Sason in 1988. You can hear it in genres like Jungle Drum and Bass UK garage. And it's even featured all over Taylor Swift's latest record.

19 (13m 52s):
The sounds of popular music are always evolving. If you want to be able to know all of its sounds, the Switched on Pop podcast will break it down for you. I'm Charlie Harding, the co-host of Switched On Pop. And if you can name this sound, honestly, you should come on the show and tell us about it. Switched on Pop comes out every Tuesday, wherever you get podcasts

0 (14m 18s):
Today explained. We're back with Penny Ramirez talking about Garcia Luna, who's on trial in New York City. I asked her how people in Mexico responded when the super cop was named in the trial of the notorious drug kingpin El Chapo.

2 (14m 32s):
Well, it was a scandal, you know, it was all over the news. And also because he had really good press at some point, for example, he got a really good profile in the New York Times and said that he was saving Mexico, something like that. So he was kind of a hero, you know, for the media, huh? But at the same time, there were a few people, few journalists in Mexico that were accusing him of, you know, or asking too many accountability questions about him and the money that he had and the businesses that he was doing. And those people were facing a lot of retaliation. Some of them left the country, some of them received death threats, and some of them are here now covering the trial.

0 (15m 11s):
What charges is Garcia Luna facing?

2 (15m 14s):
Well, he is, he's facing several charges. Most of them are for conspiring with the cartel to bring the drugs, and the also charging him with lying to the dhs. Because as he moved to Miami, when he left office in Mexico, he became first a resident. And then he was seeking citizenship, American citizenship. And as you know, when you trying to become a citizen, you need to respond a questionnaire. One of the question is, have you ever committed a crime? And he said no. And now they're accusing him of lying, saying, oh yeah, you dead. So let's see if they prove it.

0 (15m 50s):
You've been in the courtroom. Wh what's it like in there?

2 (15m 53s):
First is a high security case. So the reporters during the jury selection, we weren't allowed to be in the same room where the jury was as been selected. The jury will remain anonymous. So we don't, we know their numbers, but we don't know their names. And they're partially sequestered. That means that they have a, a strict prohibition to read anything, hear anything, and listen to anything regarding the trial. So they can listen to this episode, sadly. But all the people that are not in the jury can.

0 (16m 25s):
How is Garcia Luna's team defending him?

2 (16m 27s):
So first Ed's, his defense is paid by American taxpayer's money. Huh? He's getting a private defender paid by the court. Huh? So he can say that, oh, I was well represented. And second is a private defender. And the narrative is, it's, it's another wild part of the story that he was a good cop, right? He was a Mexican good cop cop, good cop, the guy who was saving Mexico. So the defense right now is playing this card of saying first that most of the potential witnesses against him are people that are taking revenge because he apprehended them and he extradited them. And now they're just, you know, coming back for him.

2 (17m 9s):
And the second thing is, oh, he couldn't be corrupt because he was working with the us. He was working with American government.

0 (17m 16s):
What's the prosecution saying so far?

2 (17m 20s):
Well, they're saying so far that they will have more than 70 witnesses. So that's huge. That's more, way more than a typical trial. They have been delivering to the defense more than a million pages of documents related to the case. So the defense has been trying to go over all these documents to try to find out what's the prosecution's mocking gun, if they have it. We know that a lot of the witnesses are gonna be cooperating witnesses. So people that were with the Sinoa cartel or with other cartels, and they allegedly knew something about Garcia Luna, and now they're able to testify what they know and, you know, try to get some good treatment from the prosecution on exchange of saying what they, what they know.

2 (18m 5s):
So we are expecting like big, big names in the narco industry, and people that were really crucial to understand why this so-called war on drugs has been mostly a failure so far. And I think this is the important part for the US audience, because I think it is important to say that this is not just a trial of a wild Mexican politician that liked Donna Summer And James Bond and csi. It's something really American, because most of the money that is involved, it's money from the US taxpayers that went to Mexico to help fight in the war on drugs.

2 (18m 50s):
But also most of the victims, the victims of the violence are in Mexico. But the victims of the, the use of these drugs, a lot of people, hundreds of thousands of people dying from overdoses, they're here in the United States, they're not in Mexico. So that's why, that's why I think it's important that we tell the story here, because it's not just a story about Mexican politics.

0 (19m 12s):
So it sounds like the outcome of this trial will mostly just affect Garcia Luna, but as the American government addressed, how embarrassing these revelations so far have been?

2 (19m 24s):
Oh, of course not. They haven't addressed it at all. Yeah, they have been trying, they have been even trying to prevent the defense from presenting any evidence that Garcia Luna was close to the United States. Hmm. So for example, the prosecution ask the Dodge Cogan to prohibit the defense from presenting any evidence that says, oh, Garcia Luna was close to the United States. Here is a picture of him with Hillary Clinton, of he, here is the award that he received from the cia, because as you said, it is embarrassing. For example, Lu is accused of helping the Sinoa cartel since 2001. So in 2012, 11 years after that, he received this fancy award from the, the head of the cia, a Davis Petrius saying that, thank you in recognition for your effort and your help to the United States.

2 (20m 16s):
And you know, I think that you, you used the correct word, which is, it's embarrassing

0 (20m 21s):
When this trial is over. This war on drugs will not be over. But is there a way it could be conducted better in, in a way, to avoid embarrassing incidents like this with Garcia Luna?

2 (20m 40s):
I would truly expect that after this trial, especially if he's declared guilty, that the United States does a deep revision of their international allies. So who, how many others, Garcia Luna are out there if he's declared guilty? How many other people, the US government is trusting right now with money, with information, with how many people are receiving awards from the US government. And nothing is actually happening because the numbers are really clear. You keep seeing drugs coming into the border every day. You keep seeing people dying by overdoses of fentanyl, of cocaine every day.

2 (21m 23s):
So the war is not over because people are still dying for the overdoses in the United States. People are still dying for the violence in Mexico. So I will l love to see some accountability regarding not just this guy, but who others, what other people are out there that right now should be fighting the drugs to come in and are not doing it.

0 (21m 47s):
Does it feel a little bit to you as someone who's been covering this for years and years, like a war that can't be won and this is just the latest example of a failure to try and get the upper hand in this fight?

2 (22m 1s):
Well, I have been thinking about your question for years. It's hard to say that you have an answer because when you go deep in the production side of things, most of my sources in, in for example in Sinoa are really poor people that they take a lot of risk to produce the drugs. If you go and interview them, they say, well, if I don't do this, I don't eat. And that's just one side. That doesn't mean that you justify what you do what they do, because it's clearly illegal, but you understand why they do it. That doesn't mean that it's all right, but you understand why they do it.

2 (22m 43s):
And the same with the people who transport the drugs. The same with the people who flies the plane with the drugs. The same people that crosses the drugs through the border. A lot of other risk. So you under, when you understand the business, you understand why they do it. So I think that the, the war on drugs should be reframed. I don't think I, I am in the capacity of saying that it's unwinnable. But what I do think is that you can win a war if you are pretending that you are fighting in. And if Garcia Lu is declared guilty, that will means that he was pretending to be fighting this war on drugs for so many years while he was actually helping the drugs to come in.

0 (23m 32s):
That was Penny Ramirez, along with Maria Osa, she's hosting U S A V, Garcia, Luna

20 (23m 39s):
United States in the picture of the drug war. They're doing everything right. They're providing all the money, they're doing all these good things. So if Garcia Luna was working so closely with the United States, there's no way that he could be tainted. I mean, that's what they would say. So one of the reasons why I became obsessed with this story like you is because if you reduce it, you know it becomes basically true. Crime needs telenovela.

0 (24m 5s):
It's a podcast all about this trial. So subscribe to keep up with the story. Our show today was produced by Halima Shah. She had help from Matthew Collette, Laura Bullard, and Paul Robert Mosey. The rest of the team includes Aha Artsy, Haddi, Modi, Victoria Chamberlain, Amanda Luellen, miles, SI, Petros, and AEM Shapiro, who's our director of Sound. Amina ADEs, our supervising producer, Noel King is my co-host and we had extra help this week from Jolie Myers. We use music by Breakmaster Cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld. I'm Sean Ramis firm. Today explained is on the radio and partnership with W N yc and we are part of the Vox Media Podcast network.