1 (2s):
A few months ago, Bernie Sanders was on real time with Bill Maher and Bill wanted to talk about the word equity.

2 (9s):
I think this word equity has come into the language in the last few years and before that we didn't hear it a lot. And I think a lot of people hear equity and they hear equality that it's the same word And, it's not the same word in the same concept. So how would you differentiate between equity and equality?

1 (27s):
Bernie was stumped.

3 (28s):
Well, equality we talk about, I don't know what the answer to that is.

1 (35s):
Despite the confusion, equity has come to occupy a much larger place in progressive politics over the last few years. Coming up on today explained the rise and reign of equity and how the Supreme Court's ruling on affirmative action could reign on equity's parade

Criminal | Podcast  (1m 0s):
On criminal. We bring you true crime stories told by people who know them best. We didn't believe in setting fires cuz that was too dangerous. We were, you know, kinder, gentler, kind of crooks so to speak. So the best plan you had was that you'd LaSow it? Yes. Never imagined I'd use it for a camel. I'm Phoebe Judge and this is criminal. Did you have to say what was in the box Phoebe? We told lies, Listen to criminal every week, wherever you get your podcasts,

1 (1m 46s):
Andrew Prokop, we usually have you on today explained to help us understand the political news of the day. But you recently wrote about the word equity. How come?

8 (1m 59s):
Because equity is basically a major theme that is at the heart of an increasing amount of our politics today.

9 (2m 8s):
Marxist equity, this is something new,

8 (2m 11s):
It's one centerpiece of the Biden administration's policy agenda. And

10 (2m 15s):
That's why we talk about equity because we recognize not everybody starts out on the same base.

8 (2m 22s):
It's a concept that ordinary people are talking about and arguing about too in in their own organizations and institutions. People

11 (2m 32s):
Urge the state legislature and Governor Newsom to create a California health equity and justice fund to help marginalize communities.

12 (2m 40s):
Governor Newsom needs to step up on the issue of racial equity and racial justice

8 (2m 44s):
And they thought that it would just be interesting to take a closer look on where exactly it came from, what exactly it means and the discussion that's being had about it.

1 (2m 56s):
What does equity mean?

8 (2m 57s):
So there's a traditional definition of the term before the modern context about social justice politics where equity, you know, it could just mean like stock shares, but in in this context what people mean when they say equity is something akin to justice for marginalized or disadvantaged groups and it's being used as it was in the Bill Maher, Bernie Sanders clip, mainly by the left. As an alternative to equality.

13 (3m 31s):
These days we hear a lot of people using the word equity, but what does it really mean? It's not quite the same as equality, which means everybody gets treated the same. Equity is about fairness. It means that everybody gets what they need based on their own situation because we're not all the same.

8 (3m 50s):
There has been this concerted push over the past decade to say that US government policies and just our discourse in society in general have been too focused on equal opportunity and not enough on actually changing outcomes. And so it's a little confused because no one came down from on high and said, hey, this is what equity now means In the social justice context, there's not like a universal clear definition. This is a term that kind of bubbled up in the advocate space, in the activist space online and people just started using it as this alternative to what they viewed as the old idea of equality.

14 (4m 38s):
Equality. Everyone is given an equal opportunity, but there are still people who will struggle here with equity. Everyone benefits

8 (4m 46s):
And. It's confusing because like they do still want more equality and think we need more equality of outcomes. So I don't think the challenge to equality is really the right way to frame what they're talking about. What they are trying to express is a dissatisfaction in the way that race, gender, and identity disparities have been kind of handled by the liberal and societal establishment until recently that there was this idea of colorblind liberalism that you know, we shouldn't take race into account at all and we should just like evaluate everyone on their merits or just a dissatisfaction with kind of the outcomes, with the failure of the post-civil rights era to truly achieve equality in outcomes.

8 (5m 41s):
And that you still have the groups that were disadvantaged, especially black Americans, women in certain contexts, that you still see those groups struggling to achieve equal outcomes to white people and men often. The best way to illustrate this is there is this cartoon that became really popular online a few years ago and it's a cartoon that shows an adult, a big kid and a little kid looking over a fence to watch a baseball game. And there's two pictures of them. On one side on the left is labeled equality.

8 (6m 24s):
And there all three of these people who are of very different heights each get one box to stand on and look over the fence and the adult can see the game and the big kid is tall enough to see the game, but the little kid, even with the box, he can't see over the fence. So then you have contrasted on the right equity where the adult doesn't need a box so he doesn't get one. The big kid gets one box and he can see over the fences and the little kid gets two boxes so he can see over the fence. So the specific concept which is kind of being outlined here is that we should take into account the fact that people start with varying levels of disadvantage and give them help accordingly if they need it.

1 (7m 12s):
Equity, the word has been around for quite some time. When does this word start to have a lot of significance in say, democratic politics?

8 (7m 24s):
I think it started to bubble up in the activist world. In Barack Obama's second term we see it kind of contemporaneous with the rise of Black Lives matter.

15 (7m 35s):
Equality was not a part of our constitution. The three fifths compromise is an excellent example of the lack of equality in our constitution and and in our system. Equity is what we need as a result of that inherent lack of equality in the beginning.

8 (7m 50s):
And it's sort of alongside what conservative disparages wokeness and the academic concepts like critical race theory, intersectionality,

15 (8m 0s):
Gender equity, sexual orientation, all those things become really important in understanding the real intersectionality of systemic bias.

8 (8m 9s):
It sort of rose throughout Obama second term and this is when kind of equity becomes part of the, the triad of diversity, equity, and inclusion. Every

13 (8m 20s):
Industry these days is using the term d e i to explain why they are pointing diversity officers carrying out diversity training and discussing ways to be more inclusive. D e i is implemented to make sure that from the very beginning all types of people get the chance to be in the room and make the decisions

8 (8m 36s):
During the Trump administration. This, this transformation, which some have called the great awoken, continues to spread on the left. This really identity conscious way of thinking, this more ambitious politics trying to achieve more equal outcomes in and around the year 2020 with the big George Floyd racial justice protests is when a lot of this takes place. You see a lot of these big corporations have gradually over this time period started to become committed to the cause of diversity, equity, and inclusion.

17 (9m 20s):
At JP Morgan Chase, a key goal is to help break down systemic barriers that have created profound disparities. That's why we committed $30 billion towards racial equity to

8 (9m 32s):
Provide, you see corporations like Starbucks and Amazon conducting racial equity audits, basically reviewing their own corporation's behavior to see if they are helping achieve racial equity or harming it in some way. And so throughout large parts of society there's more of a commitment to this agenda. And then Joe Biden famously wins the 2020 presidential election allegedly. Come on. How does, how does he take on equity in his administration? By this point, the Democratic party as an institution is now committed explicitly to equity.

8 (10m 15s):
So when Biden takes office on his very first day, he issues an executive order, which is all about equity. Basically, I believe

18 (10m 23s):
This nation and this government need to change their whole approach to the issue of racial equality equity.

8 (10m 28s):
It's a whole of government agenda calling on every agency to come up with a plan for achieving equity.

18 (10m 36s):
That's why I'm rescinded to the previous administration's harmful ban on diversity and sensitivity training and abolish the offensive counterfactual 1776 commission.

8 (10m 48s):
The order also names LGBTQ plus persons, members of religious minorities, persons with disabilities, persons who live in rural areas, people otherwise adversely affected by persistent poverty or inequality. Some, some Biden advisors have also mentioned women and girls and first generation Americans. So there's all that. But I think probably most common in the liberal world is that it's sort of race, ethnicity, gender, and sexuality that are getting the most focus here. How does this actually look in terms of policy? So it can look in any number of ways because equity is a, an ideal, but depending on how you actually want to go about trying to achieve that, it could be anything from as simple as, you know, offering forms for government benefits in other languages, which is like a pretty easy thing to do.

8 (11m 47s):
A pretty uncontroversial, well these days at least accommodation for people who might have trouble with English. You know, a concern with whether enough federal contracts or grants are going to businesses owned by minorities. And then you know, locally, there's all sorts of other policies that play out on the ground in issues when it comes to transportation policy, like whether underserved communities are really being served by the transit decisions of a city.

1 (12m 21s):
And none of these policies are controversial in any way, shape, or

8 (12m 24s):
Form. Nope, everyone agrees and nobody has any problem with any of this. And we're all in this together.

1 (12m 33s):
JK Rolling. People are mad. More on that in a minute on today. Explained

Coda.io (12m 48s):
Support for the show today comes from Coda. Does your job ever feel like a lupa? No, just a loop completing the same task over and over and over again week after week after week. It can feel really tedious and robotic. So robotic that maybe it could just be automated instead. Oh, the Robots Coda is an all-in-one platform that helps your team work together from a single place. And Coda just introduced an AI powered work assistant to take some of the busy work out of your process by handling those recurring and sometimes boring tasks. Coda AI allows team members to prioritize longer term and strategic work to accomplish bigger goals. With Coda, your team's content and workflow already lives in one place and Coda AI helps each team member focus on their highest priority work, even when priorities shift across your team. If you're looking for a work assistant that lets you go back to work, you can get started with Coda AI today. For free, listeners can head over to coda.io/explained. That's co d a.io to get started for free. coda.io/explained

Noom (13m 58s):
support for today's show comes from noom. There's a lot of advice about what you should and shouldn't eat out there, but noom is focused on why you eat. Noom uses science and personalization to help you manage your weight for the long term. And Noom psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors and you decide how noom fits into your life, not the other way around. Sarah Frank, who works on the business side of stuff at Vox Media, she tried out Noom. Hi, I'm Sarah Frank and I've been trying out noom. I tend to eat less on days that I'm a little anxious or stressed and days that I'm less stressed, I'm eating more. I really appreciated the ability to log my meals and then see a visual tracker and I found that visual feedback to be really helpful and a great reinforcer each day. You can sign up for your trial today@noom.com. That's N O O m.com to sign up for your trial today.

2 (14m 58s):
What is the difference between equity and equality in your view?

20 (15m 2s):
Oh, the, the difference is a truly sneaky, terrible thing. Equity. Okay, equity is this. This Warmy

1 (15m 10s):
Word today explained is back and we have to be back because we left you with a bit of a facetious joke. We said there was no pushback to Biden administration policies around equity, but of course this is America in 2023 and that could not be the case. Andrew. Tell us about pushback presumably from Republicans.

8 (15m 29s):
Conservatives express discomfort with these conversations. They think that Democrats are now pledging to prioritize race and gender in all things and that they would prefer not to do that.

21 (15m 45s):
My qualified and supremely trained heterosexual white male grad students are no longer eligible upon graduation for university research positions. This is partly because of diversity, inclusivity, and equity mandates, my preferred acronym D,

8 (16m 3s):
They have a variety of different objections to the basic thinking around equity. Some of them say that not all disparities among groups are due to oppression and that some groups might just end up being different for other reasons. Then there's the populous conservative critique that like, oh, progressives only care about women and people of color. They don't care about rural white men who are having trouble getting jobs in the modern economy or something like that. This kind of like the Tucker Carlson critique

22 (16m 41s):
Equality is what allowed Andrew Jackson to rise from a childhood of bitter poverty in the Carolina Woods where he was born in 1867 and make it all the way to the White House. Equity is the opposite. Equity is what allowed Kamala Harris, the privileged child of two PhDs to stay privileged.

8 (16m 59s):
And so there's been a search on the right for policies in cities and in the Biden administration that they think have gone too far. One of the biggest ones they seized on was happened back in 2021. Biden and congressional Democrats passed the American rescue plan, their covid aid bill, they included a fund to bail out struggling restaurants that restaurant owners could apply for some of this grant money, the

23 (17m 27s):
Federal government's helping businesses keep their doors open through its $28.6 billion restaurant revitalization fund. It closed for new applicants Monday.

8 (17m 36s):
So in the law it said that for the first 21 days, this fund was open to applications, grants would be allotted only to restaurants who were majority owned by women veterans or members of socially disadvantaged groups, which in government speak means mostly non-white people. And so Democrats intended that this would just be like a brief window of exclusivity, but the money started running out really quickly and as a result, some white male non-veteran business owners sued and they were backed by a Trump Allied legal group and they argued that, hey, what you've created here is a program that bails out restaurant owners as long as they're not white men who haven't served in the military and that this is racial and gender discrimination.

8 (18m 25s):
And some judges actually agreed with them and then the Biden administration agreed to back down and change the policy. So when an equity policy is as blunt as that, when it starts looking really like a, you know, no white men need apply kind of thing, that is where the conservatives have had the most success in pushing back and have been the most animated in pushing back.

24 (18m 53s):
When did racism against white people become okay, Joe Biden put white people last in line for covid relief funds. Kamala Harris said disaster aid should go to non-white citizens first.

1 (19m 3s):
What about moderates? What about the left? Are they a unified front on equity?

8 (19m 8s):
Well, as this change has sort of rippled throughout institutions on the center and the left, there have been people who have qualms, who have been expressing these qualms, sometimes quietly and sometimes more loudly. And I think in, in fleshing out these objections, it's helpful to look at how these issues play out in cities, especially around the country because generally Democrats have full control over cities. This is, this is an entirely a conversation among Democrats about what the policies of these cities should be. And so there have been various issues in which equity has come up in which activists have been quite full throated pushing for what they argue is equity and not everyone is on board in their agenda.

8 (20m 1s):
And, it can be a little bit controversial. So one of the most heated issues on this is education, and especially how equity is being interpreted and put into practice in a lot of places by the educational policy establishment. There have been a push in some places, notably in California about discouraging tracking of certain students towards high level courses because it tended to be white and Asian students who are more likely to be tracked at

25 (20m 31s):
California high school is removing honors English classes in the name of racial equity. Culver City High School reportedly losing the classes because there weren't enough black and Latino students enrolled in the

8 (20m 44s):
Class. So you know, the state of rationale for all this is to to shape schools to help the children who need it most. But the critics of this, including many Asian parents, they see this as kind of the lowering of standards, the devaluing of academic achievement, taking away

26 (21m 1s):
The test will, will marginalize opportunities for thousands of students of all of mostly low income and mostly immigrant.

8 (21m 9s):
They're worried that like their own kids might now no longer be challenged as much as they should in school. If advanced math is deprioritized, they'd be less prepared for a technical field of study in college. Then there's like a more practical criticism, which is that if the challenging material is taken out of public schools, well perhaps those families would just be spurred to seek advanced help elsewhere. Supplemental classes, they could switch to private schools and then this would only deepen inequality by sorting those students out in the public school system.

1 (21m 46s):
Okay, so we can see equity policies from the Biden administration from local state governments and probably hits and misses across the board. But what's the alternative? Is it just returning to some aspirational equality?

8 (22m 5s):
Well, some people on the left have a different way of thinking about this. These are the class focused leftists. They argue that, you know, more attention needs to be focused on class in this whole discussion and that too much prioritization is being given to race, gender, and gender identity. This

27 (22m 27s):
Brand of what I could disparage as class denialism separates race, gender, and other as descriptive identities artificially from the basic dynamics of American capitalism and from inequalities produced through the labor relation and market forces.

8 (22m 44s):
Professor Adolph Reed, he's a political scientist, he's spoken about this often.

27 (22m 49s):
The obvious disparities are cause for concern, but the way forward is precisely through the kinds of social and economic policies that address black people as workers, students, parents, taxpayers, people in need of decent jobs, housing and healthcare, not to homogenize them, that is under a monolithic and abstract racial classification.

8 (23m 7s):
This is by no means a universally popular idea, but it is a different way of looking at things. Okay,

1 (23m 15s):
So generally speaking, Republicans think equity is a waste of time. Democrats have bought into big equity, but there are those on the left who say we could focus on class instead. Let me ask you about the Supreme Court Andrew. They sort of entered the chat a few weeks ago when they ruled against affirmative action in college admissions. Could that have an impact on equity policies?

8 (23m 40s):
I think it could absolutely have a very significant impact. The ruling itself was only about college admissions policies explicitly And it. It actually had a specific footnote saying it wouldn't even apply to the military academies. They're like, we're not deciding that at this point. But the logic of the ruling, I think contains a deep skepticism towards the use of broad racial classifications in any sort of competitive process or adjudication. So I think it sets the stage for more and more litigation and perhaps for future Supreme Court decisions along this line that will take a very skeptical view towards other equity policies, both in the corporate world and in in the governmental world.

1 (24m 36s):
So equity had a great run, not even a decade. Well,

8 (24m 39s):
I think equity is here to stay, but we may be in a bit of a backlash cycle kind of enabled by the Supreme Court. The forces of equity will have to sort of regroup and and reconsider. I think it will be an interesting question whether the Democrats in the left shift their strategic focus more towards policies that are aimed at class or at those facing disadvantage and that policies like that might be more defensible in the court of public opinion as well as in the Supreme Court of the United States.

1 (25m 22s):
Andrew Prokop, his big thinky piece on equity is called the Equity Wars, and you can find it at Vox dot com. Our show today was produced by Miles Bryan and edited by Matthew Collette. We were fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Patrick Boyd. I'm Sean Ramas from, and this is today explained.