1 (3s):
The day that Russia invaded Ukraine. We called a man and his niece who live in the Western Ukrainian city of Leviev now three weeks into the war. We called him back. Hello, Mr. .

3 (16s):
Yes.

1 (17s):
Good. We have Mr. <em></em> and we have Yulia. Do you remember me? This family is divided by a border now, like so many other Ukrainian families, and they wanted to tell us what they were seeing from both in and outside of Ukraine.

3 (31s):
I want as many people as it is possible to hear the truth. What is happening here in our country?

1 (39s):
Yulia is president fellow Tamir's. Lenski echoed her words on Wednesday. He pleaded with Congress for help.

4 (45s):
I call on you to do more. New packages of sanctions are needed constantly every week until the Russian military machine stops.

1 (56s):
I'm Noel king it's today explained

5 (1m 0s):
This is advertiser content.

6 (1m 3s):
Facebook leads the industry in stopping bad actors online that's because they've invested $13 billion in teams and technology to enhance safety. Over the last five years, it's working in just the past few months, they've taken down 1.7 billion fake accounts to stop bad actors from doing harm, but working to reduce harmful and elicit content on their platforms is never done. Learn more about how they're helping people connect and share safely and about.fb.com/safety.

1 (1m 44s):
The city where Kareiva seal and Yulia LOPA shine, Scott, or from Levine has been luckier than cube or Mario Opal. The Russians aren't shelling the city, although air raid, siren sound constantly. Mr. Boss speaks Ukrainian. So Yulia interprets for him over the phone. Where are you now? And where is your uncle now?

3 (2m 3s):
Well, I am in Poland, my children and I, my husband stayed in Ukraine and my uncle. You can ask him later,

1 (2m 15s):
Why don't we turn that question over to him now, Mr. Vasilia, where are you now? Your uncle is still in Levine. Is your uncle safe? What is he seeing

3 (2m 32s):
Right now, for now, for today is the least dangerous of the whole terror of Ukraine is dangerous right now.

2 (2m 40s):
Russian

3 (2m 41s):
Troops, Russian. He called them terrorists. They are shelling it in the building, schools, hospitals, kindergartens, whatever, and whatever. And wherever places they want

2 (2m 55s):
See at the house.

3 (2m 57s):
And it is not that in one place or another, they in a different places like chaotic. You didn't do you know what I mean?

1 (3m 5s):
It sounds like you're saying they never know when the sh where the shelling is going to hit.

3 (3m 9s):
Absolutely. As you never know where it is going, what building or what place or what city can be next.

1 (3m 17s):
Do you mind if I ask why you decided to leave?

3 (3m 20s):
My husband stayed, stays home. He is on right now. He helps him, but he wanted us to leave. It's not that he, he doesn't think a thing that it's not safe, which is not very much, but he, every time he leaves, he thinks that I am my children and I, we are at home. And every time the siren goes off, he he's thinking about us and what we are doing, where we are, and maybe the next shelling be close to our house, you know?

1 (3m 57s):
Yes.

3 (3m 58s):
And he is not with us because he cannot stay home all the time with us. That's why he, because he wants to help. He wants to do things he wants to protect. And that's why it was mostly his decision for me to go.

1 (4m 15s):
I understand. And I'm, I would like to know from your uncle, I understand your uncle sounds very brave. I understand that he does not sound afraid, but I wonder how does your uncle plan to protect himself? If, if Russian troops arrive, does he, does he have a weapon? Does he have friends who have weapons? How will he, how will he protect himself

3 (4m 42s):
When you asked if I have gun? Yes, of course. I do have

2 (4m 49s):
A

3 (4m 49s):
Lot of people have gone Besides they, they create low code protection army. You know, I am brave because I am among brave people and it helps me to be brave.

2 (5m 10s):
<em></em> jar.

3 (5m 14s):
I'm not special. I am as some other 40 million Ukrainian people, All people, everybody in Ukraine and myself too. We say, we are sure that we will not live in invaded territories in occupation. Not a single Ukrainian is not even thinking about living well in a slavery. There is only one variant to win, or there will be no Ukraine.

3 (5m 54s):
Otherwise.

1 (5m 55s):
What do you think when you hear your uncle say, we will never back down. Do you agree that that's what should happen?

3 (6m 3s):
I, I, I do. You know, it's very, I cry a lot. It's difficult, not in Ukraine, but my heart is that every single morning, you know, my, my morning does not start with some people say coffee, tea, breakfast it, start with the news. I turn it on and I want to see what is happening. What is going on? And I personally, I would not live in an occupied territory. No,

1 (6m 37s):
I'm going to ask your, your uncle. If he could just give me a little bit of a description. I just want to know what are his circumstances of how he is living and is he okay?

2 (6m 48s):
<em></em> or <em></em>

3 (6m 54s):
Okay. I think at some point it is not good, but when people in VI, when they hear the sirens, when it goes off, not practically, nobody goes to the bomb shelter. Because for example, last night we had seven hours straight sirens go off and on and off. So it means that the whole night we had to spend in the bomb shelter. And plus during the day it is, the situation was the same. It means that we will be all paralyzed. We will not do anything.

3 (7m 36s):
We will not be able to help our army to help people who come from the Eastern part of Ukraine. We will, will, we will not be able to do anything.

1 (7m 47s):
It sounds to me like Mr. <em></em> is not going to leave Levine. It doesn't matter what happens. He's going to stay. Is that correct?

3 (7m 57s):
<em></em> Nobody is going to go anywhere. Everybody stays not only in VI, but in cave also. But what my uncle also said is that what men do a lot, they try to protect their families, their wives, and children. So they try to take them away because there are no very much safe places, but they try to take them to the most safe, to the safest place they can, or sometimes to send them abroad, but men, they stay in Ukraine and they are ready to break.

3 (8m 53s):
What was very surprising to me that two days ago, when I was helping some soldiers to go to, to fight, to kill you. And they were going to go by train I, what, what I saw is that the train will come from the train will come full of women and children. And then it will be easy to go to the K U and the trend will be half or even not even half amp will be empty. And then we can easily go. But what turned out that women and children, when they got off the train, then in a few minutes, the train will full, was full of men, ready to go to cave to the Capitol and fight

7 (10m 54s):
Please.

5 (11m 25s):
This is advertiser content,

8 (11m 30s):
Facebook safety teams protect billions of people. Each month. They lead the industry in stopping bad actors online that's because they've invested more than $13 billion in the last five years, quadrupling their safety and security teams to 40,000 people and investing in industry leading AI technology to enhance safety on their platforms. It's working in just the last few months. They've taken action on 1.7 billion fake accounts, 30 violent and graphic posts, 32.8 million explicit adult posts, 7.1 million terrorism related posts, and 3.8 million drugs and firearms sales posts, but working to reduce harmful and Alyssa content on their platforms is never done. Keeping your feed safe will continue to be everyone's priority at Facebook.

8 (12m 11s):
Learn more about how they're helping people connect and share safely at about.fb.com/safety.

1 (12m 28s):
Hello? Igor, can you hear me?

10 (12m 30s):
Yeah. Okay. It's charging, but you know, if it dies, just call me back

1 (12m 36s):
Or Kossoff is another person we talked to on the day that Russia invaded Ukraine.

10 (12m 40s):
I agree. O R K O S S O V a. I'm a journalist with the key of independent. I'm in a cave

1 (12m 52s):
What's happening there. Now,

10 (12m 53s):
Half the city's gone. It's like 4 million people, 3.5 ish. Now there's like less than 2 million left. They're evacuated. City's real empty. Nobody's outside. It's kind of spooky. It's like horror film spooky, but some people are still walking around. Major. Supermarkets are open for food. Pharmacies are open, but there are lines you got to stand in and you're not always likely to get your meds. Every couple of hours, we'll get air raid alert or shelling alert, you know, a siren. And then once in a while, and depending on the neighborhood, you hear a lot of thunder of artillery or rockets largely towards the Western part of the city where they're obviously Russian forces in a Western and Northwestern suburbs fighting against the Ukrainian forces.

10 (13m 46s):
That's about it.

1 (13m 47s):
When the air raid siren sound, what do you do? Do you have someplace safe to go?

10 (13m 51s):
I have a lot of work. I mostly stay in my apartment. I got my windows taped up. I got my mattress in the hallway. There are multiple rooms. I want to say. There's like multiple walls between me and the windows. So I'm pretty safe. If anything, I also can go downstairs and go to a not far away. There's a train station. Train stations in cave are famously deep. So it's very safe there. Although the number of people taking shelter in train stations has come down somewhat from the early days, from what I've seen.

1 (14m 29s):
Igor, I apologize for this question. If it comes off as naive, but may I ask, how are you feeling?

10 (14m 36s):
You know, it varies. I, it fluctuates normally. I'm okay. Sometimes I am pretty unhappy about the civilian casualties that are going on everywhere. I'm really upset about Mariupol sometimes as I'm sure you've heard close to 2,500 deaths there, I am sometimes feeling angry. I am sometimes feeling inspired by some of the people I talked to. Some of the interviews I do. Sometimes I'm feeling a little discouraged about, you know, again, the deaths and destruction on the, but overall I'm maintaining a, I'm maintaining the faith that Ukraine will hold because Russia's shown that it's not doing very well.

10 (15m 23s):
And despite it killing all these civilians, I'm hoping that those deaths aren't gonna escalate significantly and that Russian forces will be ground to a halt and destroyed before that happens

1 (15m 39s):
Equal. Or we hope to understand why Russia isn't doing well. We know that there's this very long convoy trying to encircle peeve, what's happening. Why are the Russians stuck? And how are you craniums along the length of that convoy responding to, to the men in those tanks.

10 (15m 58s):
I can't really tell you that because I'm not a Russia defense expert. I can't say exactly why they've decided to do things this way. I can say that the Russians have shown some baffling tactics. They advanced through the open and very tightly packed Collins, making them excellent targets for either anti-tank weapons carried by infantry or artillery hits or drone strikes. They've presented very good targets. They've really screwed up their logistics. Their destroyed vehicles have gotten stuck in giant traffic jams or tens of kilometers.

10 (16m 38s):
The Russians have just been acting as a very ineffectively, despite threatening to be this overwhelming force. And I don't know if this is because the commanders in Russia have been told what they want to hear instead of what's actually happening. I, I suspect that's part of it. I suspect that this happens all the way at the top and people just blow sunshine up yes. Of their commanding officers a lot. I I'm guessing that's part of it. I don't know for sure why they're just moving and maneuvering so poorly and presenting such, such juicy targets for Ukrainian weapons.

10 (17m 23s):
Now the, the, the column thing, that's a little bit outdated information that column has the supplies have been distributed to the forces that are massing around cube. And that column has someone been dispersed and placed throughout the forests and the roads and preparation for in sack on key, if so far, we haven't seen a massive push because we believe we have to give posts. That is belief that we, they don't have sufficient strength yet, but that giant traffic jam of a convoy that's been warned about, that's kind of cleared out and dispersed and is sort of regrouping and preparing to move As for what the Ukrainians are doing. The Ukrainian forces have been hitting them hard.

10 (18m 4s):
Ukrainian artillery can be heard working very often throughout the night, throughout the day on the outskirts, on the Western outskirts of key of constantly getting reports of vehicles being shot. There were a couple of heavy firefights between Ukrainian and Russian infantry. So there are constant battles going on. And as Russians try to find a position or try to find an angle for an attack while Ukrainian forces hold them off

1 (18m 36s):
From the beginning, Russia has said, Vladimir Putin has said he would not target civilians. We know from the beginning that that has not been true. But I wonder as Russia has been frustrated, militarily, have the attacks on civilians gotten worse. What are you seeing?

10 (18m 51s):
Yeah, I'm seeing that they have gotten worse. I'm seeing that Russia, when it's a blitz, they don't work Russia reverted back to its doctrinal tactics of using heavy artillery to just pound cities, pound civilian targets. I think what I'm seeing is that they're trying to do more moralized. They're trying to destroy the spirit of the Ukrainians. They're trying to make them want to Sue for peace. They're constantly hitting civilian targets with rockets, with artillery, with airstrikes all over Ukraine. It's especially heavy in the south and east. You seen what happened to hurricane if you've seen what happened to Marie RuPaul, but it's also happening near key of as obviously multiple times when people tried to flee from the suburban towns of west and Northwest of Cuba, Russians have attack these car doors famously killing women and children with mortars, with other indirect fire weapons.

10 (19m 50s):
And sometimes even with direct fire weapons,

1 (19m 54s):
The Eagle, or the last time we spoke on the day that Russia invaded Ukraine. I asked you if you had any hopes for a diplomatic solution and you basically laughed at me and said, no, you did not. I wonder, we hear about talks between Russia and Ukraine. Indirect talks at times, direct talks as this grinds on, as Russia seems unable to finish this war quickly, which is what it wanted. Are you any more optimistic that diplomacy might work here that some of these talks might come through?

10 (20m 25s):
I'm not sure because once again, this is Russia. All of this is being directed by <em></em> and he is not the sort of guy. He, I don't think even if he was the sort of guy to back down, he can't really afford to, he's committed, he's taken huge economic damage. He's thrown Russia into this of, you know, in this new kind of narrative of we're trying to reclaim the great empire of the rules, sort of thing. We are trying to restore the unity of one people, and I don't think he can afford to back down.

10 (21m 5s):
And I think that any negotiations with Russia will involve Russia asking unacceptable concessions from Ukraine. And I would like to hope, and I also believe that Ukraine would just find a lot of these Russia's demands, which I haven't seen the latest ones, but this is what I'm thinking. I'm thinking that Ukraine would find the majority of Russia's demands to be unacceptable. And Russia would find the majority of Ukraine's demands to be unacceptable. So while these talks are going on, I hope that this will prevent more civilian deaths, but based on who rules Russia and how you know their entire motor step around it.

10 (21m 47s):
I don't know if the, if the two sides will be able to come to something that both of them are willing to accept

1 (21m 55s):
Igor, what does Ukraine need now? What does it need most? What will it need down the line?

10 (22m 2s):
Ukraine needs a weapons. Obviously it needs humanitarian support. It needs vehicles need ambulances. It needs anti-aircraft anti rocket air defense systems. Basically there is that hope about the jets. I don't know if we're going to see them. Ukraine needs some sort of clear commitment for clear messages. You know, when it's going to be accepted into the EU and whether or not it's going to be accepted into NATO and also a Ukraine needs for the world to maybe try to hurry up and wean itself off faster from Russian gas and oil, because that's what sustains Russia right now.

1 (22m 49s):
It's six o'clock in Kia right now. What are your plans? Are you going to stay inside tonight?

10 (22m 54s):
Yeah, that's right. At this point, it's two hours to curfew. My fridge is pretty much stopped and I'm going to continue working on a logistics story about the logistics of bringing in food and produce and medicine for key of residents. And I'm also going to be working on a couple of other stories, transcribing interviews. I've got a really great feature coming up that I'm really excited about. And after I'm done with that, I'm just going to relax and maybe, I dunno, watch some old shows. Exactly. It's a very nice man.

1 (23m 33s):
Sincerely.

10 (23m 34s):
Thanks. Bye

1 (23m 43s):
Today's show was produced by Victoria Chamberlain edited by Matthew collect engineered by a fume Shapiro and fact-checked by Laura bowler. I'm Noel king. This is today explained

5 (24m 29s):
This is advertiser content.

8 (24m 33s):
Facebook has invested $13 billion in teams and technology to enhance safety over the last five years. And the past few months they've taken down 1.7 billion fake accounts. Learn more about their ongoing work at about.fb.com/safety.