AT&T (1s):
If there are friends and family members you haven't talked to in awhile, don't worry. It's never too late to connect to help at. And T is offering deals in the latest smartphones. It's not complicated. Everyone deserves something new. So at and T has given new and existing customers, their best deals on every smartphone, even the latest ones, restrictions and exemptions apply. Visit att.com for details

NerdWallet's Smart Money Podcast (27s):
So far for the show day comes from NerdWallet smart money podcast. Once again, you know that panic you feel when you think about your finances. Well, if you listen to this podcast, you might not feel quite so panicked. You might even feel prepared every week. Their hosts invite experts from their team of finance geniuses to answer listeners money questions, whether you're a finance pro, a finance bro, a finance amateur, or whatever, you might be NerdWallet, smart, money, podcasts worth checking out, and it's available now, wherever you listen,

2 (1m 5s):
Hey, there just a heads up today's show features some descriptions of violence and some strong language to boot.

3 (1m 20s):
So it's the night of May 10th, 2019, and Ronald Greene is driving through Northeast Louisiana, near the city of Monroe. And he comes to a traffic stop. Officer tries to pull him over. We don't know exactly for what and green doesn't stop. He keeps going. He accelerates, and he ends up in a high speed chase going north of a hundred miles an hour, along these rural roads in part of Northeast Louisiana, about 30 miles from the Arkansas border. And we know that that chase comes to an end on this quiet rural street and that after it green dies.

3 (2m 7s):
And that's sort of the initial picture.

2 (2m 14s):
This is Jake Bleiberg. He's a reporter with the associated press. And on the show today, he's going to help us understand how having police wear body cameras. Doesn't always lead to greater accountability, at least not without a fight.

3 (2m 29s):
So what police tell Ronald Green's family in the immediate aftermath is that he died after hitting a tree at the end of the high speed chase. And that's about as much detail as they have. And Ronald Green's mother Mona harden, and the woman he's living with at the time, I think are immediately skeptical of that. They don't think that makes sense. They don't think that fits with the person they know. And they're just confused as to the injuries he has relative to the very limited damage to his car.

3 (3m 14s):
He was driving and how he could have died. So they're just, they have a lot of questions. One of the things that I think really sparks confusion is the rental car that green was driving that did hit a tree at the end of this chase is not very heavily damaged. It's got some pretty superficial body damage, the type of thing you might go to a body shop and spend a couple hundred dollars on without even bringing in an insurance.

3 (3m 54s):
And although, you know, he hit the tree, the airbags didn't deploy. And I think that raised questions pretty immediately for the families. How could he have sustained fatal injuries if the airbags didn't even deploy and you know, none of the windows on the car were broken. And I think they just felt right off the bat that they weren't getting the full story Time passes and Green's family retained an attorney. And I think they begin to try to piece together what happened.

3 (4m 35s):
There are interviews with the police officers who are, you know, investigating at the time and members of his family are asking the police what happened. And they're just not getting very satisfying answers.

4 (4m 49s):
I first heard that Ronnie died because of a car accident. We immediately went to Louisiana. We stayed there a total of nine days and we had no cooperation, no communication with none of the police, no state troopers, anything. They just ran us in circles. We couldn't talk to Nolan and no one called

3 (5m 7s):
Yes. And in 2020 Green's family files a lawsuit claiming that the Louisiana state police brutalized him and left him beaten bloodied and in cardiac arrest after this chase. And they don't know a whole lot at this point, but they know that his injuries are inconsistent with simply a car crash. He has deep gashes in his head. His face is heavily bruised and they file this lawsuit. And we don't really have the full picture here, but you know, his family has seen these photos of the car.

3 (5m 49s):
They understand the damage to it was pretty limited or they're aware of what his injuries were. And I think they're suspicious at that point. And then they're saying in this, this wrongful death lawsuit, look, he was beaten by the police. And that's not the story we were told. That's part of his death. And in about September of 2020, my colleague sort of gets wind that there's a federal investigation into his death. Yeah,

4 (6m 19s):
It's horrific. I can't close my eyes and not see my son and what they did to him. I find it hard to sleep. It's been almost a year and a half. It was hard before it's even harder. Now,

3 (6m 35s):
One of the open questions in the death of Ronald Greene is what we have on camera. The Louisiana state police are one of the first statewide police agencies in the U S years ago to equip all their officers with body cameras. Those cameras often activate automatically when the lights and sirens are on as they would have been a high-speed chase. And, you know, I think it's an immediate question for Green's family. Okay. This is what we're being told. What does the video show?

4 (7m 9s):
It's unbelievable that this has gone this long, but I can see why it hasn't been revealed because it's another story here. It's, it's horrendous. What happened to my son and the fact that this has been kept under wraps and the fact that they were going to keep it under wraps because they thought that we would not do anything with this.

3 (7m 33s):
There are detectives with the Louisiana state police investigators who routinely work cases when there's a death in custody. And those folks began work in this case. And I think it wasn't until one of them, a detective, I believe named Albert Paxton noticed one of the troopers who was at the site when green died, a master trooper named Chris Holland was worth it wasn't until Paxton notice that he turns off his body camera. At some point that we really begin to have this question of, okay, what footage is there of this

5 (8m 17s):
Commissioned and independent autopsy and belief police tased and beat green to death and say, troopers have refused multiple requests to release the officer's body camera.

3 (8m 27s):
So the next sort of piece that begins to fill in this puzzle comes in September of 2020. When the NAACP in Baton Rouge gets a hold of a, well, it turns out to be an autopsy photo of Ronald Green, and it shows him battered with a gash in his head. And just with terrible, that again, don't seem to be consistent with a car crash. And it's just fuels his family, trying to find out what happens. And at this point, fuels is growing calls from groups like the NAACP from Ronald Green's family, for the state police, for the governor to rollies the body camera video, to just show people what happened in the staff.

3 (9m 21s):
And they don't. And October of 2020, we get audio, body camera recorded audio. It's not the video, but what one of the troopers were saying,

6 (9m 34s):
And I beat the ever living fuck out of him, choked him and everything else, trying to get him under control. And we finally got him in handcuffs when a third man got there and the son of a bitch was still fighting and we were still wrestling with him, trying to hold him down. Cause he spit and blood everywhere. And then all of a sudden he just went, Liam. Yeah, I thought he was dead. We sat him up real quick. He's on the ambulance in route to

3 (10m 0s):
So eventually after more than a year calling on the state police, Turley's the video calling on the governor's office, intervene and release the video. You know, other organizations like the NAACP and ACLU in Louisiana is building up pressure to try to get this out there. Eventually in October of 2020, the family is allowed to sort of see it in a private screening.

7 (10m 27s):
Once they had him on the ground, officer Chris Holland's words, put them in a choke hold while at least one other officer. And I'm not sure which officer tased him at that point a second time. And a third time,

3 (10m 41s):
It only raises more questions for them about what happened, why they were told what they were told initially about a car crash and what's being done to

7 (10m 52s):
That's the good while that was going on. The men continue to ups entities and insults for about four minutes. Sustainments a beating and choking before they put him in handcuffs. Once they placed him in handcuffs, the beating continued

3 (11m 7s):
So it's months still. And the video is not made public in sort of the conventional way it's made public. When my colleague gets ahold of it and the associated press publishes it. And that's may of 2021.

6 (11m 26s):
So you're fucking fucking on mother fucker. You better not move

3 (11m 40s):
What the video ultimately shows is not a high-speed crash into a tree. It's green out of the car, alert and responsive and pleading with the who are beating him, using a taser on him. And after he is shackled and lying on his belly briefly dragging him along the rural Louisiana roadside,

6 (12m 7s):
Stupid mother fucker, you got fucking aids.

3 (12m 22s):
It's only after all of that, that he ultimately dies.

2 (12m 28s):
Jacob. It feels like the body camera footage is really what breaks this investigation open. And it was released by the associated press by it. But your colleague before it was released by the Louisiana state police department, how is this supposed to happen? Is this how footage is released to the public, the press leaks at first? And then the police department says, okay, fine. Here it is. After after two years.

3 (12m 52s):
So I think this is an evolving issue. We've long seen police departments and prosecutors want to hold back evidence, including video evidence in all sorts of cases. And it's something we hear regularly in police shootings or, you know, cases of police violence that we can't release the video because it's going to be evidenced in an ongoing investigation, but we've also started to see some police departments take the position that showing the public what happened here, whether it's good or bad is important for maintaining the public trust.

3 (13m 34s):
It's important for, you know, showing the public how we're doing our job and letting them evaluate the facts for themselves. That's not the position the Louisiana state police department has taken in this case or in any of the cases we've looked at In the middle of all of this. We saw the head of the Louisiana state police, the Colonel Kevin Reeves. He stepped down pretty abruptly and there's a new Colonel Omar Davis who has not taken the position of releasing any of these videos.

3 (14m 16s):
But he has come out and said publicly that he understands there are issues within his agency that need to be addressed. And he said that he's, he wants the opportunity to address. That means he's been on the job less than a year, but I don't think it's clear up to this point, how the agency is going to handle a body camera video in future cases.

2 (14m 42s):
And has anyone been charged at this point in the death of Ronald Greene?

1 (14m 54s):
No.

BetterHelp (14m 59s):
We're going to talk about how police can do body cameras better in a minute on today, explained Support for the journey comes from better help. Here's how it works. Better help. Online therapy offers professional counseling that happens entirely online, sign up and let them know what's going on with you. And you'll be set up with one of their licensed professional therapists. From that point forward, they will be your point person. You can log into your account any time, send them a message, set up a weekly video or phone session with them from the comfort of your home or wherever. Maybe you have a walking like I have a walk. I like, and if you ever decide, you'd like to switch to a different counselor. That's not a problem either today. Explain listeners can get 10% off their first month of online therapy@betterhelp.com slash explained. You can join the over two plus million people who have taken charge of their mental health with the help of an experienced professional, according to better help, that is better. aglp.com/explained, get matched with a better health therapist and get started today.

2 (16m 25s):
Seth Stoughton law professor at the university of South Carolina. When do cops start wearing body cameras in the United States?

3 (16m 33s):
The history of video recording and policing is, is kind of fascinating. We're all familiar with dash cams or in car cams that really came out in the mid to late eighties, but weren't popularized until the mid to late nineties. So we've been trying to get police recording for a while. It's really only in the last call it 30 years where it's become ubiquitous dash cameras didn't really catch on for about a decade until they began to be seen as tools to support DUI prosecutions.

2 (17m 21s):
I was a passenger

8 (17m 23s):
40 year old John Kellum from Sheboygan is arrested for his sixth OWI and has a tantrum in the back seat.

3 (17m 32s):
When mothers against drunk driving started to fund grants to allow agencies to get dash camera footage. It really gave rise to this recognition that having video of someone who might have been falling down drunk at the scene, but was of quarter stressed professionally and composed in court could be really useful as essentially an investigative and prosecuted tool. A little bit later, by the late nineties, the drug enforcement administration was funding in-car camera grants to establish that motorists were giving their consent to officers, allowing them to search their cars.

3 (18m 20s):
Judges were starting to doubt officers. When they say that a motorist consented to a search of their car, the judge would say, well, why would this guy have consented? He had two bricks of cocaine in the trunk. He never would have led you search the trunk and the DEA funded these dash camera systems. And again, we see them as investigative and prosecuted tools where officers could use the evidence on video to say, no, this person actually did validly consent. The first mobile cameras were introduced in 2006 by ven taser. Now axon in the form of the taser cam

9 (19m 1s):
Camera. You probably don't want to smile four taser guns with cameras that record just before, during and after a shocking takedown, the Sheriff's department says the new

3 (19m 11s):
Weapons will prove

9 (19m 13s):
Or disprove taser complaints.

3 (19m 23s):
What we now think of as body cameras followed, not too long after that. And although the market today is certainly dominated by axon, which used to be taser international. There were a number of initial manufacturers.

2 (19m 39s):
I imagine the handheld cameras lead us to the body cameras we're familiar with now, which are attached right to a police officer and are kind of tied to this broader idea of police accountability. How does that shift happen?

3 (19m 54s):
The rhetoric of body cams is really when we started to see a strong push towards using recording technology as accountability

10 (20m 4s):
Today, I think I have found a solution that will help law enforcement officers and our citizens go home safe. That solution, Mr. President, our body worn cameras to be worn by our law enforcement officers throughout this.

3 (20m 21s):
Now, interestingly, that accountability rhetoric was much more common in public debates or among elected officials than it was within police agencies themselves. But

2 (20m 34s):
At some point this becomes basically the norm, right?

3 (20m 39s):
Really after 20 14, 20 15, there was a rapid increase in how widely body cameras adopted. That was the summer of Walter Scott here in South Carolina of Tamir, rice of a number of high profile police shootings

11 (20m 58s):
In the aftermath of Ferguson one year ago. This question caught fire should every cop in America wear a body camera amplifying that debate the deaths of Eric Garner, Tamir rice, Walter Scott, Freddie gray, Sandra bland, and now Samuel Dubose.

3 (21m 15s):
I think it's fair to describe body cameras today as ubiquitous, if not universal in policing

12 (21m 23s):
Sort of justice just announced it's launching a $20 million program to buy body cameras for police officers. The attorney general Loretta Lynch calls it a vital part of giving law enforcement, what they need to tackle the 21st century challenges they face

2 (21m 37s):
And broadly speaking does the sort of universality of body cameras on police officers lead to greater accountable

3 (21m 45s):
At the margins. Yes, but it depends at some agencies and with some incidents, body cameras have been critical to officer accountability at other agencies or for other incidents. Body cameras have not had any positive impact, have not had any impact. In some cases may even have a negative impact on officer accountability. How's that when we think about body cameras, we need to remember that they are a tool and just having a tool is not as important as using the tool appropriately. If you imagine someone who has carpentry tools say the nicest hammer and the best table saw in the world, but has no idea how to use them, they aren't going to be doing very good carpentry projects.

3 (22m 37s):
The same thing is true of body cameras. If an agency isn't using them appropriately, if they don't have the right policies and procedures in place, then they aren't going to be very useful as accountability tool.

2 (22m 51s):
Is this how you end up in a situation like the one we saw with Ronald Green, where he dies in police custody, the Louisiana state police department says it was a car accident. That's the story until the family presses and presses and presses and presses. And then something like two years later, the public gets to see a video.

3 (23m 10s):
Yeah, I would not call that a body camera failure because it was not the technology itself that failed. And it was not our human limitations in interpreting video footage that failed. It was the rest of the agency that failed an agency that has body cameras, but doesn't require officers to turn them on or doesn't check to see whether officers are recording the incidents that they're supposed to be recording or doesn't audit body cameras to ensure that officers are not only turning the cameras on, but are conducting themselves appropriately, is not making effective use of body camera video as a potential tool for accountability.

3 (23m 56s):
This isn't just a accountability. I think one of the, one of the mistakes that many agencies made is buying into the hype that body cameras could be all things for all people that body cameras could be either a panacea or a very significant part of improving police, community relations, increasing public trust and police, legitimacy, solving accountability issues. Body cameras can help in some marginal ways with all of that, but they can only help in a system that is designed to use them appropriately.

2 (24m 35s):
It feels like there's this potential for body cameras to sort of revolutionize policing if they're used correctly. That's what I'm getting from you. Are there examples of police departments that are using body cameras in an optimal way?

3 (24m 49s):
Absolutely. There are agencies that are doing it well, there are agencies like the LAPD that have broad, mandatory recording policies and that also encourage or require supervisors to check to ensure that officers are recording the incidents that they are required to record. There are agencies that have made reviewing body worn camera video, part of an officer's annual evaluation process that is before a supervisor can turn in an annual evaluation for a subordinate officer. They need to review a percentage of, or a set number of the officer's videos to check for specific things that they may not otherwise see to identify whether the officer is polite during traffic stops or something like that.

3 (25m 44s):
There are agencies that I think have done a very good job about making body-worn cameras, video accessible that is releasing it to the public either on a discretionary basis. Like when there's a critical incident, the agency puts that video out there promptly, or ensure that the video is available upon request in situations where it's required here in South Carolina. For example, we have a state law that says that anyone who's on the video or anyone who's using the video in litigation has a right to that video agencies. Despite that clear legal statement, agencies can throw up a series of roadblocks to slow that down or make that more difficult, or they can be very proactive and transparent in providing that video.

3 (26m 36s):
So yes, there are definitely agencies that are doing it well. A Washington Metro police department LAPD is generally doing it well, but there are also a number of agencies that are not doing it very well.

2 (27m 4s):
Seth Stoughton is an associate professor at the university of South Carolina school of law and an associate professor affiliate in the department of criminology and criminal justice. We use some audio from ABC news today. Thanks ABC news. Our episode was produced by Heidi D I'm Sean Rama's forum it's today explained,

The Verge (28m 2s):
Hey, there it's Neil Patel editor in chief of the verge and host of the verge cast and decoder. The verge is turning 10 this year and we're celebrating live in New York city on October 22nd and 23rd with an epic two day event. Of course I'll be there along with other notable journalists on the verge and some incredible guests, immersive tech in our experiences all day DJs and great New York food and drinks. For a limited time, we're offering Vox media podcast network fans $150 off our standard ticket. Go to the verge.com/on the virtual tickets and enter promo code dollar sign nine, nine. Now a checkup I'd love to see either.