0 (0s):
The numbers are out. Our march release of Consumer Price Index expected up two-tenths of 1% is up one-tenth of 1%.

1 (9s):
Inflation is up 5% from a year ago. New data out this morning shows, but it has slowed to its lowest level in two years. We have a good understanding of what causes inflation. Too much money chasing too few goods is the Econ 1 0 1 explanation. And of course, once supply chains break down as they did during the pandemic, that'll contribute too. But you may have felt recently that things are more expensive than they should be, that the crisis created by the pan is coming to a close, but prices are still very high. Two econ writers recently dug into the question of whether regular old inflation is the reason for all of the higher prices or whether something else is going on.

2 (45s):
There seems to be a reluctance on the part of businesses to start to bring prices down.

1 (52s):
Coming up on today explained the hidden drivers of inflation.

4 (59s):
RuPaul's Drag Race Champion Sasha Valor says some of the weirdest drags she's ever done was influenced by the Lord of the rinks.

5 (1m 7s):
They did a transformation from like a glamorous 1950s ingenu to Gollum and did the lip sync with both Gollum and Smiggle fighting. And then I performed Kate Bush Weathering Heights,

4 (1m 23s):
Sasha Valor on her new book and the history of drag this week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast.

2 (1m 40s):
My name is Tracy Allway. I am the co-host of the Odd Thoughts podcast over at Bloomberg where myself and my co-host Joe Weisenthal, talk about the most interesting stories in finance markets and the economy.

1 (1m 52s):
You recently identified a phenomenon or wrote about a phenomenon that you call excuse ifl. It does not roll off the tongue, but, but it's an interesting idea. Tell me what it means.

2 (2m 3s):
I think a lot of people at this point have heard about this idea that companies, you know, maybe they're taking advantage of the current environment in order to raise prices and really gouging their customers. And the thing about excuse ifl is it's sort of grounded in truth. It's the idea that companies are using these once in a lifetime disruptions. You know, think about the supply chain hiccups that we've had.

6 (2m 30s):
The Port of Los Angeles is once again seeing

2 (2m 33s):
Bottlenecks. Think about the Ukraine, Russia war.

7 (2m 35s):
Well, the conflict in Ukraine and the sanctions on Russia have led to another surge in the cost of oil and

2 (2m 41s):
Gas. And they're using those one-off disruptions as an excuse to raise prices. And that sounds fair enough. You know, companies, they have expenses. If their input costs go up, maybe it makes sense for them to pass some of those onto customers. But where it starts to become insidious is when they're raising prices so much that they're seeing their profits go up quite substantially as well.

1 (3m 9s):
Can you give me an example of something that has been excuse slated?

2 (3m 12s):
Sure. So one of my favorite examples, because you know, I, I, I love these personally, but chicken wings, let's talk about chicken wings and Wingstop.

8 (3m 22s):
You wanna order Wingstop?

0 (3m 24s):
We just got all these groceries.

8 (3m 26s):
Yeah, but we didn't get Wingstop.

9 (3m 28s):
You know, you want that sauce and tossed Wingstop where flavor gets its wings.

2 (3m 32s):
Wingstop is a very large purveyor of very delicious chicken wings. And what they've been saying on their earnings calls is that they have been raising their prices for their delicious chicken wings. And the reason they've been doing that is because the wholesale cost of your basic chicken wing went up quite a lot during the pandemic. Whether

10 (3m 52s):
You're serving them up from the deep fryer or selling them raw chicken wings are hard to come by right now.

11 (3m 59s):
I've been raising my wing prices every week for the last five

2 (4m 4s):
Weeks. We had a lot of disruptions at various farms, chicken farms with labor shortages and things like that. So it made sense that chicken wing prices went up and the company started passing those on to consumers. The issue now though, is that we have seen a substantial drop in chicken wing prices. Good

0 (4m 25s):
News for you, just in time for football season. Chicken wing prices have now dropped to below their pre pandemic levels. The wholesale price is now at a four year low,

2 (4m 36s):
And yet the company isn't saying that it's gonna start dropping its prices. What it's discovered, much like a lot of other businesses at the moment, is that actually this strategy of making up what you lose in sales volume with higher prices. So you're selling fewer products, but you're selling them at higher prices. It's a viable strategy in the current environment, and it's working for a lot of companies because profit margins are

12 (5m 4s):
Up. Wingstop is coming off a better than expected quarter for sales. As diners embrace the company's new chicken sandwich. It also helps from a profit perspective that chicken wing prices have started to, or they have flown

1 (5m 14s):
Lower. I mean, listen, you are an economics reporter. You see what's happening. You are still buying chicken wings. Why are you not furious? Why have you not put your foot down?

2 (5m 24s):
First of all, let me say that my personal price elasticity when it comes to chicken wings is probably infinite. I, you know, I, I will pay whatever it takes, tea, buffalo wings.

1 (5m 34s):
Wingstop is listening.

2 (5m 36s):
We spoke to the owner of a bakery over in Chicago and you know, I think there's a tendency when you think about things like greed, deflation or excuse ifl, you think about these big corporations, these really sophisticated corporations that are, you know, formulating their pricing strategies and how to get the most out of customers. But this is a, a phenomenon that also is endemic in smaller and mid-sized businesses. And this baker in Chicago kind of laid it out for us. He said,

13 (6m 6s):
Whether it's rye flour or bird flu that impacts eggs when it makes national news just running a business, it's an opportunity to increase the prices without getting a whole bunch of complaining from the customers. Hmm huh. It's not that we're out there price gouging, but you know, timing can be everything.

1 (6m 24s):
Shouldn't competition push prices down? I mean, if I'm a business owner, I'm gonna let consumers know that I can get them stuff cheaper than the other guys who have excuse slated everything. Shouldn't that be happening? So

2 (6m 35s):
I think this is really the key thing about accusation and where it differs a little bit from greed, deflation. If a company starts raising its prices just because it can, then in theory, according to the basic rules of capitalism and economics, someone should come in and undercut them and steal all their business away. But the thing about accusation is it allows companies to raise prices all at the same time and all together. So the economist Isabella Var, she basically says what it does is it gives companies de facto monopoly power.

14 (7m 16s):
If we are in a situation where we have very highly concentrated corporate structures, which I think is a fairly fair description of large parts of the American economy, then we can actually see that the price response to demand is surprisingly small. In many cases the prices are actually quite surprisingly stable.

2 (7m 36s):
So you think about the reason that we tend not to like monopolies as consumers, we want, you know, a vibrant landscape of lots of smaller businesses that are all competing with each other so that we get a better value for our money. What happens when you have an industry wide event that gives a group of businesses an excuse to raise prices is that they are all effectively, not officially, but effectively acting as a monopoly. They can all say, well, you know, it's bird flu so we're all gonna raise the prices of our eggs. Or when it comes to specific company examples, you know, Pepsi has been pushing their prices higher for a while and you would think that, well customers can just buy Coke instead, but actually Coke is pretty much doing the same thing.

2 (8m 28s):
And so you end up having these industries who are all acting together and that means that there's very little incentive for them to start lowering prices because they're not seeing that competitive pressure. We tend to think of monopoly power as this, you know, kind of static thing. So you know, you might have one big company that dominates an industry and that's a classic monopoly. Consumers don't have a lot of other options, but in fact, monopoly power can be a fluid and temporary thing. So when you see a supply bottleneck or when you see an industry wide disruption, it can lead to the situation where companies all start acting very similarly.

2 (9m 16s):
They all start doing the same thing. It's almost, you know, I hesitate to use these words because they have legal connotations, but it's almost like a defacto cartel, right? Everyone decides to raise their prices all at once because whatever crucial component or input cost is going up. And so that leads to a automatic monopoly. It feels the same to a consumer who finds that actually they don't have a lot of options because one group of businesses is raising their prices all together, all at the same time. The

1 (9m 49s):
Federal Reserve has been raising interest rates to try and slow inflation down. Does the Fed take corporate profits into account? Is the Fed looking at this and saying, huh, we might need to try something new to tame inflation other than our standard raising interest rates. If it's a new set of circumstances, does the Fed need a new response?

2 (10m 8s):
I think it would be really, really hard for the Fed with its current mandate to take something like corporate profits into account. Huh? We have seen policy makers, you know, make some noises about this. I think Lele Brennard for instance, before she left to go to the National Economic Council, was talking about how it seems like there is this sort of inelastic component of consumer demand that maybe companies are taking advantage of. But what I would point to is there are other types of policy makers who are starting to cast a much more critical eye on this type of activity. You know, for instance, it we're talking about supply side disruptions.

2 (10m 49s):
There is a lot of legislation that has come outta the Biden administration that is targeted at precisely these types of choke points.

15 (10m 58s):
After weeks of negotiation and working with my team and with the major union retailers and freight movers, the ports of Los Angeles, the Port of Los Angeles announced today that it's gonna be begin operating 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

2 (11m 15s):
The second thing we know is that throughout the pandemic and the, you know, ensuing years, the rich have gotten richer and the poor have gotten poor. They've blown through their savings, while wealthier people have tended to see their savings just go up. So you almost have, you know, well you do have two different classes of people here. You have one class of people that is probably feeling the pressure of higher inflation. They're not gonna be buying as many chicken wings, but you have other people who you know, they will stomach and possibly not even notice a 10 or 20% increase in the price of their chicken wings. And so I think those are the things that are really driving this dynamic.

1 (12m 1s):
Bloomberg's Tracy Allway co-host of Odd Lots, the podcast coming up next, how companies justify these price increases. You wanna know what premiumization means, like Wingstop will deliver

17 (12m 27s):
Over the last few years, a big idea has taken. Root trees might be talking to each other,

3 (12m 35s):
Some

18 (12m 36s):
Call it the wood wide west, the wood wide web, the wood wide web.

17 (12m 40s):
And it's all happening underground.

19 (12m 44s):
Underground. There is this other world, a world of infinite biological pathways that connect trees and allow them to communicate and allow the forest to behave as though it says single organism.

17 (12m 56s):
It's a beautiful image, but is it real?

5 (13m 0s):
Lots of people potentially are sort of getting this somewhat of a fantasy about how forests work rather than the true picture.

20 (13m 7s):
It's a welcome debate. We need to lean in and figure out what is actually happening

17 (13m 12s):
This week on Unexplainable, the story of the Talking trees and the pushback. Follow unexplainable wherever you listen for new episodes every Wednesday.

21 (13m 25s):
Hey, this is Sean Illing. I'm the host of the Vox Podcast, the gray area where we take a philosophical look at culture, politics, and the world. Basically I get to talk with really smart people about big ideas for a living and it's pretty awesome. And a great thing about working at Vox is that everything we do is free and accessible to everyone. Vox has been free since it was founded nine years ago, and we want to keep it that way for years to come. You can help us do that by making a contribution today. Making a contribution supports what we do here at the gray area. It helps keep Vox free and it makes us less dependent on advertising and that's a really good thing for everyone.

21 (14m 7s):
Go to vox.com/give. There's a link in the show notes. Thanks for your support.

1 (14m 25s):
Okay, moments ago, accusation Now Jason Carion, the business news director at the New York Times recently identified another reason gentrification, not of a neighborhood, but of the whole economy. Jason, what

22 (14m 41s):
My co-author and I, we thought of gentrification as like an understandable metaphor for what companies are doing now in that they're prodding consumers towards fancier, often pricier versions of their products. And so as those products grow more exclusive and expensive, we thought of gentrification as as that metaphor, as if it was the entire economy being gentrified. And what that implies is that it's caters to higher income consumers and leaves poorer people, underserved. Now what corporate executives will call that is premiumization.

22 (15m 23s):
Hmm. Which is a mouthful.

23 (15m 24s):
There's probably two big drivers I think, that have driven this premiumization over the last two decades and why I'm very bullish that pre premiumization will continue.

22 (15m 33s):
And that's been coming up more and more when when we talk to CEOs and CFOs and those types. And also if you listen in on earnings calls, these calls that companies have with investors and analysts every quarter, it's, it's fair to say that premiumization is a pretty popular buzzword right now.

1 (15m 53s):
If you were to ask an executive, give me a one sentence definition for premiumization, what would they say?

22 (15m 58s):
Well, they would say that it's increasing the value of a product to a consumer beyond what it costs. So you know, it's like adding new features, having some sort of branding that makes it more desirable in some ways. And that's several sentences, but really it's, they talk about value beyond just price.

1 (16m 24s):
Got it. Okay. So earlier in the show we were talking to Tracy Allway about excuse ifl. And this is where companies will jack up the price for reasons that don't have to do with input costs. But in this case, companies are jacking up the prices and saying higher quality is what justifies the increase. Can you give me like a really specific example of where you have seen this happening?

22 (16m 46s):
How much time do we have here? Because it's happening everywhere. And I think once you start to think about premiumization excuse or just look at, you know, the price of things now versus three or four years ago, you start to see it everywhere. And you know, one re recent example that's pretty interesting I think is at a M C, the movie theater chain.

24 (17m 7s):
Somehow heartbreak feels good in a place like

22 (17m 10s):
This. They started raising prices for, you know, middle seats.

17 (17m 13s):
The plan is to offer three tiers of seating. Preferred tier seats in the middle of the theater will be the most expensive, followed by standard, the most common choice, which the company says will remain the price of a traditional ticket. If you're in the mood for a bargain. And don't mind a slight net cramp, try value located in the front row.

22 (17m 30s):
The thing that really convinced us that it was time to write this story about this phenomenon was when we saw executives at WD 40 mentioned premiumization

1 (17m 41s):
And what did they

22 (17m 41s):
Say? You know, WD 40, the lubricant that you used to to fix squeaky wheels, hinges, doors, all that sort of thing. WD w

23 (17m 49s):
Www

25 (17m 49s):
40, www D

26 (17m 51s):
40, WD 40 pick up a can at your favorite store, try it. WD 40,

22 (17m 57s):
They have been talking about premiumization as part of their strategy and, and what's driving profits there. And that's not something, you know, you generally consider as like a luxury good, but they have, you know, cans of lubricant now with what they call a smart straw.

27 (18m 14s):
Flip it up for a precision stream. This will get to those hard to reach places, flip that straw back down for a regular spray

22 (18m 21s):
Action. And they also have something called easy reach, which means that you can shoot WD 40 around corners.

27 (18m 27s):
And the best part, the straw is right where I left it.

22 (18m 30s):
And what that means is that they can charge more for each bottle of lubricant. They say that it's because you know, hey these shoot two different ways and so that's worth, you know, an extra quarter or 50 cents or something on a bottle. And so once you apply that to other products, you you, you start to see it just about everywhere.

1 (18m 50s):
I think you also wrote, and this is very near and dear to my heart about pet

22 (18m 54s):
Food. I think pet food is a fascinating example of this because pet food has been premiumizing to coin a term there for many, many years. So that trend has been kind of turbocharged by the pandemic. So what's happening with pet food is that executives in that industry have been talking about the humanization of pet ownership for a while. You know, we treat our dogs, cats and other pets as akin to human members of our families and we spend more and more on fancier things for them and that mainly involves food. And so that humanization trend has run into the kind of pandemic boom and pet ownership has run into the splurge and spending that we saw during the pandemic when people got stimulus checks when they were at home and other expenses went down and they decided to spend more on their households and that includes pets.

22 (19m 48s):
There was a really funny example recently, the c e o of Smucker, which owns milk bone, he said that

28 (19m 55s):
We've had some nice success on some of the premiumization in milk bone. Things like taking the biscuits and and dipping them and stacking them. There's actually a basically what looks like an Oreo for

22 (20m 11s):
Dogs. You know, pets don't necessarily eat more than they used to, but we're spending way, way more on, on pet food than, than we used to. And that is a part of this long running premiumization trend that has only gotten deeper over the past three years.

1 (20m 29s):
I got a pandemic puppy, I love him so much, I started out feeding him kibble and then he was kinda like turning his nose up at it. So I started buying him the expensive crap fresh pet. And then in the last month he started turning his nose up at Fresh Pet and now I have to give him freaking human food. He has premiumized me up to Trader Joe. I'm so pissed.

22 (20m 48s):
Doggie Trader Joe's. I love it, I love it.

1 (20m 53s):
I think there's ways in which this could seem niche, right? It's like Noelle and a couple thousand other idiots will pay for expensive dog food, but you know, it's not all through the economy. We get inflation numbers out today and you know, you look at those and you say, well, okay, that's the entire economy. Is premiumization playing into these big broad inflation numbers that we have out this morning.

22 (21m 16s):
It could be, it's kind of hard to identify in the big macro stats, but if you talk to any economists, market watchers, analysts, those types, you're starting to hear them talk more and more about profit led inflation. So inflation has been on a bumpy but but steadily downward slope in recent months. And it's been maybe a little stickier than people thought. Given that energy prices have come way down and, and some of those big spikes we saw earlier in the pandemic have moderated and what's left is profits is companies profit margins. And, and, and so some of the inflation that that we see now and you know, some people have tried to put a number on it, but a not insignificant amount of it is down to companies just keeping prices high.

22 (22m 1s):
Quite simply

1 (22m 2s):
In this kind of dynamic, in this kind of environment, what happens, what does this mean for lower income people who can't afford gentrified WD

22 (22m 11s):
40? What it does mean is that there's a real risk that lower income households are underserved in this new type of economy. And that just puts into, you know, even sharper relief, the inequality that we've seen for quite some time in most western economies. And the car market is a really good example of this. We ran some numbers on it, we talked to some people at the end of 2017 there were almost 30 different new car models that you could buy below $25,000. The share of cars that cost that much or less so, so kind of like low end new cars were more than 10% of all sales of cars.

22 (22m 53s):
Now there are only about 10 models that cost $25,000 or less and the share of sales of those cars is like 4%. It's tiny car sales have been pretty robust lately, but some pretty perky numbers out there. But there are a big swath of people out there who are being completely priced out of the new car market and that then filters down to the used car market. And so prices will go up there also. And then just generally you start to picture this economy that is potentially a little bit more unequal than it has been and it's already pretty unequal and you get a vision of an economy that's has lower production, potentially higher inflation, and then over the longer term just to permanently higher prices for essentials and luxuries and just about everything.

1 (23m 42s):
What are the longer term consequences of this two track economy do you think?

22 (23m 47s):
Well it just puts in pretty sharp relief, the inequality of it. And you know, when you get inequality what that could mean, you know, macroeconomically speaking is, is less stability for the economic system but also for just society as a whole. And that feeds into politics and, and sort of other things. And so it's not necessarily a bright picture for the economy, but, but like so much else in this post pandemic economy, it's confusing. And that's what we've heard from lots of different economists too. They're seeing this, can this continue? Are there stability concerns with this? What does it mean for inequality? What does it mean for our politics in the, in the, in the future?

22 (24m 27s):
And a lot of them honestly just kind of throw their hands up because like so much else since we learned of, you know, covid 19, this is having effects that are difficult to predict it and it's kind of uncertain where we're going.

1 (24m 54s):
Today's show was produced by Miles Brian who will pay a premium for Miles Tellme.

29 (24m 59s):
I will pay a premium for airline tickets that avoid layovers. I hate layovers.

1 (25m 3s):
It was edited by Matthew Collette who will pay a premium for socks. So Haynes just know he's out there. It was engineered by city kid Paul Robert Mosey, who will pay top dollar for great produce and it was fact checked by Laura Bullard, who believe it or not, but you should believe it because she's the fact checker will pay a premium for that special WD 40 that can shoot around corners. I'm Noelle King's today explained.