2 (1s):
Support for this episode comes from Firefox you've heard about what's happening on the internet the algorithms that game results to maximize profits while skewing relationships elections and society as we know it Mozilla is on a mission to and their words unfuck the internet with Firefox Firefox is the only browser back by a non-profit whose mission is to keep your online life private while leaving the internet safer less divisive and more welcoming than they found it visit Firefox.com. place to download Firefox bill for internet levers back by a non-profit

1 (38s):
This is Sam's olenick.

2 (40s):
I'm an assistant managing editor at the New York

1 (42s):
Times. Our Newsroom has been empty since March, but we've been busier than ever before the pandemic has changed how we work, but it hasn't changed what we do. This is why we became journalists to bring to like real verified

2 (57s):
information when the stakes couldn't be higher.

1 (60s):
We can't do this work without our subscribers. If you'd like to subscribe, please go to nytimes.com / subscribe and thanks.

2 (1m 14s):
Halloween is on a Saturday this year. It's to Saturday's away from today. Plus it's going to be a full moon and the second full moon of the month, which makes it an extra special blue moon for all the Halloween people out there. This was gonna be a good one then came the pandemic but as far as I can tell it hasn't stopped people from decorating. It certainly hasn't stopped the grocery stores from selling candy. I've even seen videos of people building like these little candy shoots to deliver candy from a distance from like the front door down to the side. The question is will it be safe to go out there on the 31st and trick or treat and after that how about Thanksgiving and Christmas and Hanukkah and Kwanzaa and New Year's this felt like a good time to ask if the holidays are on or if we have to cancel them to I asked dr.

2 (2m 3s):
Aaron Carroll. He's a professor of pediatrics at the Indiana University School of Medicine go Hoosiers. Dr. Carol are the holidays

1 (2m 12s):
canceled this year? Well, they shouldn't be, you know, certainly I can imagine a scenario where things could be so dangerous that they need to be but that be very few places around the country. I think if we take proper precautions a lot of holidays can still be pretty safe,

2 (2m 27s):
even though a lot of the country seems to be experiencing what people are calling a third way. We see cases picking up almost

1 (2m 34s):
everywhere. I mean it's is the thing first of all, it's important to understand that the country is a big place and that just because Areas are experiencing. A third wave doesn't mean that every place is experiencing a third wave. So first I really want to know what's going on in my backyard. But even if we are entering a new period where disease is becoming more prevalent, I'd argue that we should still be doing many of the same things to keep ourselves safe that we should have been doing before the third wave. If we were all doing a good job of trying to stay outside as much as possible not spending a lot of time inside near people masking up having no clothes. Contact washing our hands constantly. That's the same advice. I'd give people in wave three that I would have given people before Wave 3 if we all did a really good job of that and individually trying to do things as safely as possible.

1 (3m 25s):
That'd be better than all the restrictions.

2 (3m 27s):
Let's talk about some of the particular problems that these holidays that are coming up present starting with Halloween where you'd have potentially a bunch of kids hanging out together on sidewalks in front of Houses potentially in their homes where you have a lot of people potentially interacting. What do you think is the safest practice there for communities across this country. If I had to

1 (3m 52s):
design an activity that could potentially be safe during covid. I'd have a harder time coming up with something better than trick-or-treating outside.

2 (3m 59s):
Think about it if families

1 (4m 3s):
congregated together and units that were already pods because they're living together and they agreed to walk around kids would want To wear masks. I mean, it's the holiday where you could encourage them and decorate a mask to put on we could tell people okay, you know we got to do we got to put like little dots on the walkways to show where six feet apart is so we can wait our turn to get candy we could put the candy outside in individually wrapped rappers that sweet old kids. Don't open it until we get home and clean off your hands or anything else. So there's no no touching each other. You could even parcel it out and leave it out separated outside. So kids can pick it up. It's on a Today we can agree in neighborhoods to say let's start at 3 p.m.

1 (4m 45s):
And you know staggered by age groups. It could be an extended D densified holiday, where if we all put a little work into it we could make it safe

2 (4m 58s):
the CDC put out guidelines on Halloween that said going door-to-door is a higher risk activity quote-unquote higher

1 (5m 6s):
risk, you think do you think the CDC is wrong on that? I think they're looking at this. This is binary there thinking like well, you know look look if we're bringing on doorbells and people are opening in and we're spending a minute talking to each other and while we're talking another group comes up and gets in our face. Yeah. This is a recipe for disaster and I'm like, yes that is but I just described a completely different scenario. What I'd rather they do is say hey, this could potentially be unsafe if we're not careful about it. So let's talk about all the things we need to do in order to make this safe. And if you can accomplish all these tasks then it It's really low risk. And then that's great. Let's do

2 (5m 44s):
that. Let's talk about something that makes it harder to be safe completely which is like combining households for holidays. Like let's say Thanksgiving or Christmas or Hanukkah. What do you do when you have to say combine your bubble with your parents bubble with your siblings bubble and all of a sudden you've got 20 people in a room eating food in a closed space something like Thanksgiving

1 (6m 9s):
so I wouldn't do that. Like that's where it's like I'm saying like yes, I cannot find a way in my head to say 20 people who have many other exposures sitting inside eating together or even worse like spending the week in each other's houses. That's a recipe for disaster. But that doesn't mean you can't have Thanksgiving. So it's not terribly cold in some parts of the country. Maybe you can sit outside far apart. Maybe you could decide to have the meal apart and then just hang out together again distanced outside all the rules. I see before masked up. What's important is often the social contact and the relationships that we have not necessarily going through the same motions every single time. It would be impossible.

1 (6m 50s):
As far as I can tell for us to like invite extended family to fly here to spend a couple days in our house to eat all together. I can't make that say specially since my oldest child is going to be returning from college the day, you know day or two before Thanksgiving we have to quarantine him first. We have to like, you know, make sure that he's safe before we not exposing him to grandparents. So we may wait two weeks and have a later Thanksgiving with my wife's parents or something like that if we choose but you know, if we are all super quarantine and her parents are super quarantine and we've made Jacob wait two weeks to see if he's you know, not got it then it's a different calculation and we can try to come up with ways to do it as safely as

2 (7m 33s):
possible. I imagine it's hard for people to hear especially thinking ahead to the end of year holidays, whatever you might sell. New Year's people who haven't seen their families for six seven eight months who are trying to close out the year and head into winter and the new year with their loved ones. Do you think people are going to be breaking the rules that they've set for themselves throughout the year?

1 (8m 1s):
Yes, and I think I think that's part of the problem too is I think we keep we keep talking about this as if this ends on December 31st, I constantly find myself being the voice of Jim I think we're going to be doing this well into 2021. I just think that we're in this for the Long Haul and we need to get used to this and this is also why I'm like we need to find ways to live with this now and try to find ways to do all these things safely because abstinence-only is only going to work for so long. Yeah, and this is not going to be over in two months is not going to be over in 3 months. I'm worried. It's not going to be over totally over next summer. And so it's Or even Beyond potentially so I think we have to find ways to do things and be connected safely as opposed to keep saying we can't do these things at

2 (8m 50s):
all. What do you say to people who are saying, you know what? I'm just ready to rip the Band-Aid off and get it so I can move on with my

1 (9m 0s):
life. Look I have kids. I do this all the time when my daughter is losing her mind and she's like I can't take this anymore and no one else has found the we negotiate. What do you need? What is the problem of me asking you to wear a mask and not hang out in the basement because we're going to have a serious negotiation that can we make this better and still be safe in this way. It's the same thing I would do is Pediatrician to be honest as a parent with sex. It's like we don't say don't ever have sex we say, okay, we know that you're going to engage in activities. Let's talk about how to make them as safe as possible. Let's talk about you know, what is more risky? What is less risky what you need to engage in versus what you want to engage in and in what really might be too much might not be too much and how do we minimize risk as much as possible and keep you as safe as possible as opposed to saying like you either do everything I say or or that you know, that's it.

1 (9m 54s):
We know that doesn't work and yet we keep trying that with covid to it's not it's not the way to do. So when people like I can't take it anymore. It's like well, what do you what do you need that? You're not getting if it's you need Halloween I can get you Halloween. If it's you need Thanksgiving. I can get you Thanksgiving. We just have to be thoughtful about and that the problem is I think too often were just like either you can have everything or you can have nothing and it's just not good at sort of those trade-offs and shaving the Shades of Gray

2 (10m 31s):
All right. So the holidays aren't necessarily cancelled. But for a lot of people the safest thing to do will be getting together with your loved ones virtually how to make that not suck after the break on today explained. Suppose initially comes from hero life can be stressful and if you're worried about missing your pills or making sure a loved one is taking theirs. It's just one more thing. You have to worry about unless you got hero hero takes that worry off your plate.

2 (11m 13s):
It's like your medicine cabinet reinvented. They make it simple and easy to make sure you are loved one are getting the right meds at the right time every time they've got something called the hero pill dispenser. That's It's all your daily medications for you and delivers them all with a push of a button and you've got an app and with that app. You can set medications schedules get notifications if you miss a dose or if you're running low on pills all sorts of business. Here's the deal hero is giving today explain listeners a special offer head over to Hero health.com explain and make sure to use the offer code explained to get 50% off their Initiation fee plus a 30-day risk-free trial get your morning's afternoons and evenings.

2 (11m 55s):
A back stop counting pills and let the machine do the work with hero $50 off plus a 30-day free trial hero health.com explained with the offer code explained to check out. Support for the show today comes from all birds. We've got the lingering pandemic. We've got the deepening political division. We've got the climate Crisis coming into full view take the joy, wherever you can get it these days like in a new pair of shoes, maybe especially if those shoes happen to be the Holy Grail of old-school lace-ups, except actually comfortable and made of Premium natural materials.

2 (12m 36s):
I'm talking about the new wool Piper's from all birds. Yell their the new twist. On the classic lace up sneaker. They give you that vintage inspired. Look that's always cool except instead of the OG design with leather uppers and petroleum-based souls. The wool Piper's are made with certified Merino wool and sugarcane based foam. All birds is committed to the two things leaving the planet in better shape than they found it and making shoes that feel great. You can find out more about their sustainable practices and find your pair of wool Piper's at all. Ed's.com

1 (13m 12s):
today Today it's

2 (13m 19s):
takes planes. I'm Sean Rama's firm and like you I've been hanging out with my friends and family virtually this year and like you have found ways to try and make that experience more Dynamic Games music costumes, but the holidays are a different story and most of us haven't been through that cycle yet. But S Bear Bergman has he's a writer and Storyteller in Toronto who recently published a piece for vice about how he made Holidays work from a distance.

1 (13m 48s):
I did you know for those of us who are Jewish we have already now had all of our major holidays are big food holidays, if you will during the pandemic and it occurred to me that we've definitely learned some things and I know that Christians are sort of heading into their big one to Thanksgiving and Christmas. This season right now. So I wanted to write an article and just kind of share some of the things that we've learned that I thought might be helpful.

2 (14m 27s):
What have you learned? What are the tips you have for people from your experience this year?

1 (14m 31s):
The first one honestly is do something special. You know, I definitely understand people feeling like oh I couldn't possibly it's sad. It's exhausting. I don't have the energy. Why would I bother for just you know, me and my immediate family or me and my housemates but one of the things that I think we've really learned is that doing something special helps to bring the special feeling Cook the food Daiquiri the things put on your fancy outfit.

1 (15m 21s):
Even if you only put on the top half of it right like no judgment, maybe go wild put on shoes, but think about how you can really participate and there are sort of a couple of different locations of that. One of them is food. Jewish so, you know, we're always sort of thinking about okay, but what's the snack possibility in this scenario? So one thing you can do that's food-related is your grandmother your great uncle or your auntie or your mother-in-law whoever makes the like special holiday thing get them to make it on video and everybody cook along like this is the year that everybody learns how to make Make the sweet potato casserole or the meatballs or whatever it is that it's just not a holiday without.

2 (16m 22s):
All right. So we've got putting on your holiday best doing a cooking class with the fam. What else you can

1 (16m 28s):
also do what is basically a potluck. If you only know how to make your chicken soup with matzo balls for 40 people and there's only four people in your house right now make it for 40. And then package it up get your other family members who live close or your friends and let everybody makes their specialty and then the morning of package it up drive around town drop off chicken soup with matzo balls at everybody's house or whatever is the thing the meatballs the tamales the Feast of The Seven Fishes, whatever is your your family thing that you do and then at least you can all be eating the same thing while you're on a zoom called.

1 (17m 12s):
Whether you can all be having, you know, your mother-in-law's famous macaroni cheese and telling her how great it is. That's good for a couple minutes. For sure.

2 (17m 22s):
I like that idea. Did you try that with Passover? Rosh Hashanah? We get a

1 (17m 27s):
version of it with Russia Hashanah where we cooked several different things and a couple of other households cooked several different things and then we sort of played match and win until everybody had a whole

2 (17m 40s):
dinner. Hmm. I really felt like

1 (17m 44s):
a holiday not just I went to a lot of trouble to make a fancy meal for the same people who always eat at my table like part of what's great about a holidays you get to eat other people's special food. Yeah, you know, which I

2 (18m 1s):
love I love that too. What about after you eat

1 (18m 4s):
pick a meaningful reading and everybody read a paragraph going around the table, you know, look up your land. Judgment and figure out what indigenous land. Your celebration is actually taking place on and find out, you know, what the history of that land situation is. It makes it less like oh, I'm just eating my food in front of my screen and looking at your food, right? So like, you know everybody pick a name and make a toast to one other person at the table and just talk about like Why they're great for a full minute

2 (18m 44s):
at everyone's going to pick dr. Fouch E.

1 (18m 47s):
I mean I'll take dr. Feci. I could give us I could give a one minute toast on why he's great right now you I wouldn't even need to prepare in advance go for it.

2 (18m 58s):
Really? Yeah sure not listen to that sounds like the dogs would too.

1 (19m 9s):
Dr. Fouch e has held onto the best in public health guidance regardless of politics since before the beginning of the AIDS epidemic found. She has been 100% not squeamish not moralizing fully engaged in the question of what is going to deliver the best health result for the most people in the Sunnah. Amount of time. He never participated in the homophobia that was related to the AIDS crisis or in the shaming of people who use drugs just like he doesn't participate in the shaming of the people now who aren't, you know, even engaging in public health guidelines.

1 (19m 59s):
He's just steadfast and straightforward consistently doing the work to the highest level. That came on here to talk about stuff cabbage. And now we're doing Public

2 (20m 18s):
Health. Could you pass the

1 (20m 19s):
Cabbage I can and will and just I feel like I'm ready to show my range today apparently.

2 (20m 31s):
There I'm gonna I'm gonna raise my glass and give my my holidays feels about you this year. I really appreciate your time. Thank you so

1 (20m 39s):
much. Thank you so

2 (20m 40s):
much. Happy Halloween Thanksgiving Hanukkah. And you know Boxing Day up in Canada. Yes. Yes,

1 (20m 49s):
we do. We do have boxing day. We did already have Thanksgiving though in in October belated. Yeah, but yes, I happily accept your belated Canadian Thanksgiving. Wishes,

2 (21m 10s):
that's fair. Birdman is a writer based in Toronto Canada some my favorite friends and family are out there in Toronto to I missed them but we zoom on Sundays midweek shoutouts to them and to the today explain team will read mu JT Halima Shah. I'm gonna al-saadi and no MM hassenfeld who did not write this song nor did brake master cylinder extra. Up this week from bird Pinkerton and Cecilia lay a theme Shapiro is our engineer Golda Arthur is our supervising producer and Liz Kelly Nelson is vaux's editorial director of podcasts today explained his parts of the VOX media podcast Network.

2 (22m 13s):
Xerox ones to help you make

1 (22m 15s):
now work because right now there are a lot of things getting in the way of that work pivot to future-ready solutions that will help your business Thrive and take on this new normal at Xerox.com box Xerox automated digitizers your system. So being remote doesn't slow down your flow and when you need to offer personalized care to a customer Xerox helps you do so with tech

2 (22m 35s):
solutions that feel human

1 (22m 38s):
learn more about how to transform your business for these Changing Times at rocks.com box all world-changing Innovation starts with Trail Blazers people with ideas just crazy enough to work go deeper into the history and exciting future of Industry disruptions that shape our lives in unexpected ways with the Trailblazers podcast from Dell Technologies, best-selling author Walter Isaacson along with extraordinary guests will explore the people and Tech that are moving us forward. Listen to Trailblazers, wherever you get your podcast or at Dell Technologies.com Trailblazers.