0 (1s):
It's 2024 Happy New Year

2 (5s):
A, statute of limitations. These kind of run out on the new year. Three days. Plenty

0 (10s):
Three days. Sorry. Larry 2024 is gonna be great for lovers of Olympic Sport to eclipses and people who have been waiting to find out what happens to Paul and Dune This.

1 (23s):
World is beyond cruelty.

0 (26s):
2024 will be less great for people who dread nothing more than a rematch between current president Joseph Robin and Biden Jr And, former President Donald John Trump. But that rematch only happens if Trump is allowed to be on your ballot.

3 (42s):
Breaking news, just in the past few minutes, Donald Trump has asked the Supreme court to overturn a ruling in Colorado and ensure that he can appear on the ballot there and across the country,

0 (51s):
The states that are trying to cancel Trump coming up on today, explained

Imperfect Paradise People Versus Karen (1m 4s):
In December, 2020, a Latino couple was falsely accused by a white mom influencer of attempting to kidnap her children, the Karen phenomenon, where white women falsely accused people of color of crimes, usually fixates on the accuser, the so-called Karen. But for this series, we focus on the innocent couple. At the heart of this story, I just want the public to know what she did was wrong, Imperfect paradise people versus Karen available now, wherever you get your podcasts,

1 (1m 34s):
It's today. Today explain

0 (1m 40s):
Lots of big election news. over the holidays. Last night, the former president asked the Supreme Court of the United States to keep him on ballots across the country. Today's a big day for that Colorado ruling. We've got a lot explaining to do. We asked Zach Montero to help. He's a state politics reporter at Politico.

6 (1m 57s):
So there's been a push by a kind of a strange bedfellows group of some liberal activists, some conservative scholars, to have the former president disqualified from running for the presidency. Again, under interpretation of a section of the 14th Amendment. 14th Amendment was one of the big amendments post Civil War. But for our purposes, it focuses on a section that says someone who engaged in insurrection is not eligible to hold an office, political office in the United States.

7 (2m 24s):
Amendment 14 section three, no person shall be a senator or representative in Congress or elector of President and vice president or hold any office, civil or military under the United States, or under any state who having previously taken an oath as a member of Congress or as an office of the United States, or as a member of any state legislature, or as an executive or judicial officer of any state to support the Constitution of the United States, shall have engaged in insurrection or rebellion against the same or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof.

7 (3m 10s):
But Congress may by a two-thirds vote of each house, remove such a disability.

6 (3m 17s):
And we've seen a bunch of lawsuits across the country from activist groups, from some kind of long shot candidates all trying to get Trump kicked off the ballot for 2024. And the reason we're talking about it's 'cause we've actually been two states that have done that.

0 (3m 31s):
And it sounds something like a liberal fever dream to prevent Donald Trump from getting on the ballot in the first place. But how did this get to be a serious legal action?

6 (3m 44s):
Yeah, so certainly the two groups that are, are responsible for the most prominent lawsuits are, are generally bleeped to be liberal. That's crew, a watchdog group that's pretty well known in dc, especially from the Trump era. And Free Speech for People, which is also another activist group that has kind of burst onto the scene with this, although they've been around for a little bit. But it's a real mixture of people advocating for this position. There's those groups. There is some pretty prominent conservative scholars, and I think the one probably most familiar is a former federal judge, Michael Lu, who, if that name sounds familiar, was integral in then Vice President Pence's deliberations over how you should count or electoral votes on January 6th, 2021.

6 (4m 29s):
The judge advised Pence that his job is, you know, that he, that he didn't have discretion, that he needed to count the legitimate electoral count votes that were put forward.

8 (4m 38s):
The votes for president of the United States are as follows, Joseph r Biden Jr of the state of Delaware, has received 306 votes. Donald j Trump of the state of Florida has received 232 votes.

6 (4m 53s):
He also wrote a piece in the Atlantic last year that was probably the most forward public argument for why the former president should be disqualified under the 14th Amendment. The

9 (5m 3s):
Original meaning of Section three disqualifies the former president from ever holding the presidency again.

6 (5m 12s):
They kind of kicked this all off, not in a legal sense, but at least in the public discourse,

0 (5m 17s):
Which I guess sets us up to talk about Colorado. Tell us what happened in Colorado.

6 (5m 23s):
Colorado was the first state to find that the former president A was did engage in insurrection because of his actions on January 6th. And B, because that he did engage in insurrection. According to the Colorado Supreme court, he is disqualified from the ballot. The state Supreme court made that ruling in December. They were the first court anywhere nationwide to find both of those holdings. That was a big deal. It's obviously unprecedented. We've never had a presidential candidate disqualified in this manner in recent history, certainly, and in American history. So it was huge.

0 (5m 55s):
And they did do this pause until today slash tomorrow. Why exactly did they make that pause?

6 (6m 2s):
Yeah, so Colorado said, listen, we know that this is unprecedented. So they said, you know what? Like we all know this is gonna go to the US Supreme court anyway, so we're gonna automatically pause our decision until January 4th today to allow people to file an appeal to the Supreme Court, to the US Supreme Court.

10 (6m 19s):
Trump has now officially filed his appeal, and here they're asking the court, this is a direct quote, did the Colorado Supreme court air in ordering Trump excluded from the 2024 presidential primary ballot?

6 (6m 32s):
So really in practical senses, unless the Supreme court issues a ruling before the end of day Friday, determining something or, or, or lifting the Colorado pause in practicalities effect, this means that President Trump will be on the ballot in the Colorado Republic primary.

0 (6m 49s):
Another place this is happening is Maine. How similar is the main case to the Colorado one?

6 (6m 56s):
Maine is similar in the legal findings, but how we got there is, is pretty unique. Maine setup is different from a lot of states that actually requires the Secretary of State, which in most states is the state's chief election official, to be that first stop, to make that first proactive determination, okay, in Maine, if you want to challenge a candidate's qualifications, you do it directly with the Secretary of State, who by state law has to have a hearing about it. So the Maine Secretary of State, the Democrats Beos, had that hearing in December, and she too found that a Trump engaged in insurrection and B, therefore he is disqualified for running for the presidency. That put her in a very different position from a lot of other Secretary of States, democratic and Republican, and, you know, pretty apolitical election officials of having to make that determination.

6 (7m 43s):
Many of them said, this is not the role of an election official to make this call. It's the role of the courts. But in Maine, the process requires a secretary basically to make that first call.

11 (7m 52s):
The events of January 6th were unprecedented and tragic and an insurrection. Those events happened at the behest of, and with the knowledge and support of the outgoing president, Mr. Trump,

6 (8m 4s):
The challenge for her was, okay, did Trump engage in it?

11 (8m 8s):
I found Mr. Trump to have engaged in insurrection under section three of the 14th Amendment,

6 (8m 14s):
And she said it would've been an easier decision if there had been a criminal proceedings around this, but there hasn't been. So she said, she said she was duty bound to make the call in her state. The

11 (8m 24s):
Legislature did not write into the law an exception for complexity or difficult natures of interpretation. They didn't say enforce all of the constitutional qualifications except for the ones that are difficult or complex. I do not have the discretion to choose or to decline to do my duty to hold a hearing and then issue a ruling.

6 (8m 49s):
So she made that determination, but certainly she's come under a lot of scrutiny for, for

0 (8m 52s):
It. And perhaps adding to the chaos here is that while Colorado and Maine are saying the former president cannot appear on the ballot, other states are saying he can. Yeah.

6 (9m 5s):
So a couple of states have had state Supreme courts proactively say, yes, Trump can appear on the primary ballot, might draw that distinction specifically because Michigan and Minnesota, the state Supreme courts there both said Trump can appear on the primary ballot, but their ruling wasn't, you know, exonerating Trump and saying the 14th family doesn't apply to him, or he didn't engage in insurrection or what have you. They were kind of effectively punts saying primaries are different than general elections. He could be on the primary ballot, but we'll see about the general, and of course, many, many other states will have Trump on their primary ballot, either because a court case didn't resolve in time, the secretary thought they didn't have the discretion, take somebody off the ballot. Of course, many Republican leaning states will have Trump on the ballot.

6 (9m 45s):
But this is also true for California, a famous

0 (9m 47s):
Rival of Donald Trump's. But

12 (9m 49s):
2000 mile wall is a monument to stupidity, not just vanity to stupidity.

6 (9m 56s):
Yes, famous rival of Donald Trump. But you know, the legal argument with the Secretary of State said that, I don't have the, the ability to make the determination, but there's also the normative argument that setting aside all the legal arguments, is this a good idea? And that is what California Governor Gavin Newsom has made saying in paraphrasing him. But you know, the best way to defeat Trump is at the ballot box, not a procedural move, but we get more votes than him and we win.

0 (10m 22s):
And now nine Supreme court justices three of whom the former president himself appointed. We'll have to figure it out.

6 (10m 30s):
Yes. you know, right now we're waiting to see will the Supreme Court step into the Colorado case. But most legal experts assume that the, the Supreme Court will kind of wade into this Colorado decision. And it, it, it's, again, thrusting the, the Supreme court kind of into the center of electoral politics that something that at least Chief Justice Roberts has said that he kind of wants to, or has projected at least, that he wants to navigate the court out of. But there's there, there's really no escaping this, especially now that two states have found that Trump doesn't qualify for the ballot.

0 (11m 2s):
Zach Montero Politico punto com, the Supreme Court calls when we're back on today, explained

Noom (11m 21s):
Support for today explained comes from Noom. There is a whole big weight loss industry. It can be hard to figure out what works for you. Noom wants to tell you a bit about Noom. Noom uses science and personalization to try to help you manage your weight over the long term. Noom says that their psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors, and you can decide how Noom fits into your life and not the other way around. Noom offered a sample of 4,272 numer and 98% of them said Noom helped them change their habits and behaviors for good. Sarah Frank is my colleague here at Vox who works on the business side of things. She had a chance to try out Noom and tell us how it went. There were days where I was overeating based on my goal and days where I was undereating and Noom had a very clever way of also matching my mood to those days. So I could actually see after about a week that I tend to eat less on days that I'm a little anxious or stressed, and days that I'm more relaxed, I'm eating more, and I know some people's habits are the opposite of that. You can sign up for a trial today at Noom dot com. That's NOM dot com to sign up for a trial today.

Mint Mobile (12m 33s):
Support for today Explain comes from Mint Mobile Mint Mobile would like to offer you an affordable new phone plan to cut back on monthly expenses in the new year. Mint Mobile sells their phone plans totally online and according to the company, that's how they're able to pass savings onto you for a limited time. They're passing on even more savings with a new customer offer. All of Mint Mobile's plans are just $15 a month when you purchase a three month plan. All plans have unlimited talk text plus high-speed, 5G data. You can also take your current device and phone number with you to get a new plan to get this new customer offer and your new three month unlimited wireless plan for $15 a month. You can go to Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. That's Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. Cut your wireless bill to 15 bucks a month at Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. Additional taxes, fees and restrictions apply. See Mint Mobile for details.

Bombas (13m 29s):
Support For today. Explain comes from Bombas, the purveyor of socks and slippers. Athletic socks. Cozy socks, warm socks, winter socks. Sure, why not. According to Bombas, they also have a one purchased equals one donated commitment, meaning every time you buy something from them, they're gonna donate an essential clothing item to a person facing homelessness. Sarah Frank, my colleague who works on the business side of things at Fox, got to try out some stuff from Bombas. Recently I had a chance to try the performance compression socks for Bombas. I plan to use these for travel, but I've been wearing them around the house and I'm already obsessed. If you're ready to get comfy and give back, you can go to Bombas dot com slash explained and use code explained for 20% off your first purchase. That's B-O-M-B-A-S dot com slash explained. Code explained at checkout, Explained 2024, explained

0 (14m 34s):
Today, explained is back. We're with Ian Millhiser who covers the Supreme Court for Vox. Ian, it seems like everyone is waiting on the Supreme court to take up this issue. Is there any chance the Supreme Court won't?

16 (14m 48s):
I mean, there is always a small chance that that could happen, but the effect if the Supreme Court were to just not take this case would be that the Colorado decision would stand. So, yeah, so Trump would still be off the ballot in the state of Colorado, but that decision wouldn't be binding in the other 49 states. So we'd have a kind of chaotic situation where some states, he'd be on the ballot, some states he wouldn't be on the ballot. you know, you could potentially have Red States retaliating against Colorado by removing Joe Biden from their ballots. So we really need the Supreme Court to step in because the Supreme court is the only entity that has the authority to say, here's one rule for the entire nation that will govern who and who does not get to be on every state's ballot.

0 (15m 40s):
Got it. So the Supreme Court doesn't love chaos between the states, even though sometimes they create it themselves. Let's just, for the fun of it, start with maybe the least likely outcome here. What would that be?

16 (15m 52s):
So the least likely outcome, I think is just a straight decision affirming the Colorado Supreme Court by the US Supreme court. I mean, that would mean because this would be a decision coming from the US Supreme court saying that Trump is an insurrectionist and is constitutionally disqualified from serving as president. That would potentially mean that he has to be removed from the ballot in all 50 states. It would be the end of Trump's career as a politician. It would be the end potentially of his eligibility to serve in any office at all. Amazing. This is a court with the Republican super majority. I think there are some legitimate reasons why the court may want to delay resolution of this case for just a little bit.

16 (16m 37s):
So I don't think that outcome is very likely at all, but there is at least the possibility that the Supreme court could say, yep, Trump's an insurrectionist, can't be president again.

0 (16m 47s):
What's more likely?

16 (16m 49s):
So there's two other possible outcomes. Two Trump raises, or rather, the Colorado Republican party in a document that had filed last week raises a number of rather silly arguments for why this case should be resolved. Now, to say that Trump can stay on the ballot, one of their arguments is that the Colorado Republican party has a first Amendment right. To put whoever they want to put on the ballot. That's, Hmm, that's that's wrong. No. Like it is well established that states can, they can have residency requirements, they can require candidates to gather signatures. you know, it just happens all the time that someone wants to get on the ballot and they don't comply with some state law.

16 (17m 32s):
So they aren't allowed to be on the ballot. There's no first Amendment right to appear on a ballot. So that's not a good argument. The second argument is that, and this is going to sound like the stupidest thing you've ever heard, but

0 (17m 48s):
Okay,

16 (17m 49s):
The 14th Amendment says that the people who are disqualified from serving as president are people who previously served as quote an officer of the United States, and then after serving as an officer of the United States, then went on to participate in an insurrection. And the claim that the Republicans are making is that the presidency is not an office, the president is not an officer of the United States. Huh? And therefore Trump is not disqualified. 'cause he has not served as an officer of the United States before. And therefore it's fine. I guess if he does an insurrection

0 (18m 29s):
Feels a lot like the President is the officer of the United States. But, but who am I? Is there a middle road here that the Supreme could take between these sort of maybe more extreme positions?

16 (18m 41s):
Yeah, I mean, I think that the court is unlikely to accept either of those two arguments I just mentioned, or to kick Trump off the ballot. you know, at least right away the middle ground is a punt and there's a, there's a pretty easy way which they can punt this case. And, and frankly, I think they should punt to this case. So the tension that you have in the 14th Amendment, on the one hand, the 14th Amendment says if you commit an insurrection, you can't, you know, and you've previously served in high office, you can't then go on to serve in high office Again. On the other hand, the 14th Amendment protects the right to due process. You, you know, before a court is allowed to do something to you, there normally has to be some sort of procedure to determine like, did you actually do anything wrong?

16 (19m 28s):
What did you do wrong? Does the thing that you did wrong violate the constitution? And that requires, you know, some sort of a trial, some sort of a fact gathering process. The Colorado state court process, which determined that Trump is ineligible, like there was a trial, but it was a pretty truncated proceeding. you know, one of the dissenting justices pointed out like there wasn't the normal right to what's called discovery to gather evidence. Trump didn't have the ordinary right to subpoena witnesses that you see in a lot of trials. The, the truncated process that the Colorado's courts used. I don't think that's enough to comply with the due process clause.

16 (20m 11s):
But there is another proceeding coming up there. Trump is facing a criminal trial in Washington DC this supposed to happen in March, which will determine whether or not he's guilty of committing federal crimes because he tried to steal the 2020 election. And so that's the middle ground, is that the court says, we're not gonna decide now whether or not Trump is ineligible to be president, but after that criminal trial, if he's convicted, we may very well turn around and say, okay, now that he has been convicted of trying to steal the election, he must be removed from the ballot.

0 (20m 47s):
I, I wanna talk to Ian a bit about the mindset of the nine justices going into this new year, this new term, and this, you know, wildly unprecedented case, the Supreme Court deciding a presidential election seems nuts unless, of course you remember the one time they did it.

17 (21m 5s):
Standby. Standby. CNN right now is moving our earlier declaration of Florida back to the two close to call column.

18 (21m 17s):
Ah, we'll hear argument now in number oh oh 9 49 George w Bush and Richard Cheney versus Albert Gore at Al.

19 (21m 25s):
Bottom line here, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Florida is reversed. That was the judgment that had allowed these broadcasts to go forward.

20 (21m 33s):
President-elect of the United States, the Honorable George w Bush,

21 (21m 38s):
The presidency is more than an honor. It is more than an office. It is a charge to keep and I will give it my all

22 (21m 48s):
And folks in the year 2004, please could you make up your minds a little more conclusive because I think we can't take another election like this one.

0 (21m 57s):
What are some of the parallels here between this situation and Bush v Gore?

16 (22m 7s):
So, I mean, Bush v Gore was a very different case for many reasons. I mean, one reason why it is different is that the election had already happened and the official count already showed George w Bush was up when the case reached the Supreme court. And I don't think anyone knows whether that that count was correct. You, you know, because what Bush v Gore did is it shut down the recount that would've determined whether or not Bush or Gore actually won the state of Florida and with it, the presidential election. And so all the Supreme court had to do there was prevent anything from happening and Bush just became president. In this case, if, if the Supreme court does nothing, what will happen is that the Colorado Supreme Court's decision will stand and Trump will be removed from the ballot.

16 (22m 57s):
Hmm. So like the court actually has to come up with a reason to keep Trump on the ballot if, if, if, if, if, if they want to keep him on the ballot. Now that said, I think, you know, the most relevance that Bush VOR could have for this case is that three of justices were on Bush's legal team. Three. Three, yeah. Chief Justice John Roberts, justice Brett Kavanaugh, Amy Coney Barrett, all were on Bush's legal team.

23 (23m 24s):
I don't think the Justices care that it's Bush v Gore or if it were Gore versus Bush. What they care about is how to interpret the constitution. What are the enduring values that are gonna stand a generation from now?

16 (23m 36s):
And like the Bush v Gore decision is not remembered as a paragon of Supreme court jurisprudence.

0 (23m 43s):
It was deeply partisan. It was a five to four decision. The five conservatives, the four liberals, right.

16 (23m 49s):
Its reasoning has been widely criticized.

0 (23m 52s):
Do you think the fact that it wasn't beloved, even if three of the nine justices were on the Bush legal team, means they might be a little gun shy this time around?

16 (24m 4s):
I mean, I would hope, I mean, one thing that has changed a lot is that the Supreme Court's approval ratings according to many polls are at record blows right now. I, I mean, I think everyone understands that the Supreme Court has become something very partisan and they start to feel suspicious if the court steps in to do a favor for a Republican presidential candidate.

0 (24m 25s):
But the safest course for the Supreme court might still look like a favorable decision for the former president, which is saying he gets to stay on the ballot. If that is indeed what transpires here, what will this episode between Colorado and Maine and all the rest have taught us about, I don't know, the 14th Amendment Insurrections elections in America ourselves, Ian,

16 (24m 53s):
A lot of people, you know, not just Republicans. I mean, the New York Times had an article making this, this argument. you know, I've heard some democrats say like, are we really sure we are comfortable with, you know, someone who has a lot of popular support and a lot of popular support from some people who recently committed an act of violence on behalf of Donald Trump? There's no easy way to put this. Like, are we afraid it would lead to political violence? Are we afraid that it would lead to the kind of upheaval that, you know, that we just don't want? But this provision of the 14th Amendment saying you can't be president if you engaged in an insurrection is in there and it doesn't exist to protect us from people who, who are unpopular.

16 (25m 43s):
you know, if, if, if Donald Trump did not have a broad base of popular support, we wouldn't need the 14th Amendment because unpopular candidates lose elections. And so if you don't disqualify someone who has popular support, then you might as well not have this provision in the Constitution anyway. Because the only thing that we need to worry about is that someone who actually has the popular support that makes them capable of winning an election, might win an election despite the fact that they committed an insurrection, you know, the, the Insurrectionist who retains a broad base of popular support.

16 (26m 25s):
And if we're not willing to disqualify 'em, then we should just admit that, you know, this provision, the 14th Amendment, it doesn't do any work at all.

0 (26m 36s):
Ian millhiser Vox dot com. Our program was produced by Isabel Angell. We were edited by Amina Alade, fact checked by Laura Bullard, and mixed by David Herman. I'm Sean Rames for more on this story in the coming weeks, months, year of today. Explained.