0 (1s):
It's today explained. I'm Sean Ramis firm and I'm standing outside the White House because a lot of people who are running to live in this house in 2024 are obsessed with the word Woke. So I thought I'd come out here and ask people what exactly that word means. Being awake. Yeah.

1 (18s):
Woke means like you wake up

2 (21s):
Or maybe somebody want to be attentive. Then you want to convey that message to walk up buddy.

3 (26s):
People who are willing to recognize and convey the essential dignity of every human being

4 (34s):
To signify like an awareness of racial issues, especially for black Americans. Someone

5 (39s):
Who can see

0 (40s):
Through the, the facade of

6 (42s):
Others. It's ironic the people who are Woke are the ones who are actually asleep. You've bought into an agenda that's being pushed by liberal extreme lism. It's, it's all bullshit. It's all bullshit.

0 (55s):
Coming up on today explained what Woke means to just about everybody.

7 (59s):
Hello, I'm Esther Perel. I'm a psychotherapist and host of the podcast. Where should we begin? I invite you to enter into my office and to listen in on the sessions that I conduct with people from all walks of life, grappling with the challenges and choices in their relationships. I'll be dropping new episodes every Monday starting July 10. Listen and follow. Where should we begin on your favorite podcast app?

5 (1m 30s):
On criminal, we bring you true crime stories told by people who know them best.

8 (1m 36s):
We didn't believe in setting fires cause that was too dangerous. We were, you know, a kind, a gentler kind of crooks so to speak.

5 (1m 44s):
So the best plan you had was that you'd LaSow it?

9 (1m 47s):
Yes. Never imagined I'd use it for a camel.

5 (1m 51s):
I'm Phoebe Judge and this is criminal. Did you have to say what was in the box,

10 (1m 57s):
Phoebe? We told lies,

5 (1m 59s):
Listen to criminal every week, wherever you get your podcasts

12 (2m 17s):
Explained. 2024 explained

0 (2m 20s):
When we wanna talk to someone about the outsized presence, the word Woke has in the 2024 Republican primary, we thought of a stead Herndon. He's the host of the Run-Up podcast at the New York Times. So you've surely noticed that instead of running against Joe Biden, it seems like a lot of Republicans are running against the word Woke and the idea of wokeness. Absolutely. I mean ever since Biden came into office, they've been trying to find a thing to stick to him. you know, he's not a figure that was as personally enraging as you know, Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton. The villains they had in the past and the Republican kind of ideological core has been to really find a way to invalidate the other side in that kind of villainous manner.

0 (3m 9s):
And so I think you've had Republicans searching for what that's going to be in the Joe Biden Democratic Party and wokeness has become the kind of catchall term to embody some of that. We hear it over and over on the campaign trail

13 (3m 24s):
Wokeness is a virus more dangerous than any pandemic cans down beyond

14 (3m 29s):
All of those failed policies. Maybe one of the most troubling developments of the past two years, it's been the Biden administration's wholehearted embrace of the Woke lefts, all-encompassing assault on culture and values.

15 (3m 43s):
We are gonna leave Woke ideology in the dustbin of history where it belongs.

0 (3m 53s):
It makes it really clear that for the next year and a half, it may not be a campaign against the White House, its policies or or the like, but just the idea that the White House represents a larger progressive ecosystem that is encroaching on the kind of cultural values of everyday Americans. That's the most generous understanding of what this term has come to me. But it has basically meant everything Republicans don't like. And I definitely know that Ron DeSantis is like the king of anti wokeness. He says Florida is where Woke goes to die, but it's not just him, it's Nikki Haley, it's Vivek on this show. Actually.

16 (4m 33s):
They're blowing Woke smoke to deflect accountability from the questions that they would rather not answer to their customers or to their shareholders or the people who would actually scrutinize those businesses in other ways,

0 (4m 46s):
I mean on our podcast we talked to Nate Cohen, the Times chief polling expert who tells us that when you look at the issues across the Republican base, there are very few that cut across each kind of sector. And one of them is this anti wokeness. The Manhattan Finance person who is a conservative and the evangelical and the south who's a conservative, are both angry at this same kind of progressive push as they see it. And so I think that we can name this, I think a lot of this came after 2020 where I think there has been a backlash to what was a rising rhetoric of social justice and racial equity.

0 (5m 26s):
And I think they've really capitalized on that feeling that that push that went too far in quotations. Does it differ amongst the other candidates who are running for the 2024 Republican nomination? Or is it all sort of this DeSantis vein? It definitely differs. There's candidates like Vive Ramas Swami who's made a surprising push in the Republican nomination going from kind of an unknown to maybe one of the lower tier candidates, mid-tier candidates. He's really pushed himself as a C E O who represents a, a pushback against kind of wokeness and corporate culture. When we were at cpac, this was the overwhelming topic of discussion.

17 (6m 5s):
Woke culture attacks our values and faith. We'll stay true

18 (6m 9s):
Leaders who are driven by cowardly wokeness.

19 (6m 13s):
There is a union between big tech government, big corporate Woke, e SG America to silence dissenting views. And they're all together in this regime that has really operated in opposition to the American people.

20 (6m 29s):
Every diversity, equity and inclusion program, every e ESG rule, every Woke initiative in our military must be uprooted and completely defunded.

0 (6m 45s):
You had people like Nikki Haley there whose kind of famous moment was taking down the confederate flag in South Carolina that would probably be labeled as a semi Woke action to that. That shows you where the energy is on the Republican side right now. It's not to really pitch yourself as someone who is some racial uniter or like cultural midpoint of the left and the right. It's really to push yourself as a champion of bringing what they view as American culture back to their side. The interesting thing here is that actually Donald Trump is probably the candidate that talks about wokeness the least. He even said that he's sick of it and the the words getting overused, he doesn't know what it means anymore.

0 (7m 29s):
and

21 (7m 29s):
Don don't like the term Woke cuz I hear Woke, Woke, Woke. you know, it's like just a term that used half the people can't even define it, they don't know what it is. It's

0 (7m 35s):
A kind of classic Trump honesty moment when he says the thing out loud. I mean wokeness is an articulation of Republican grievance that has built up over a long time, but is they're using this word as a kind of vague catchall in this moment. Donald Trump has no problem naming the grievances that he has. What I think he is doing in terms of acknowledging the kind of vagueness of his opponents is saying that they're tiptoeing around grievances. That he's willing to name that he, him and his supporters are willing to call out directly. And I think they think that's what's gonna win them at the end of the day is not to engage in this kind of elite back and forth about the meaning of wokeness, but actually to embody the frustration of the base conservative voter.

0 (8m 20s):
Is this motivating and activating voters on the right I mean? It depends on what voters we're talking about. If the e if we're looking for the evidence we have as of now, it's not that this has really helped them win I mean. Republicans are talking a whole bunch about wokeness in the last midterms and that was one that went really poorly for them, at least relative to their expectations. We have seen it become a motivating factor going back to when they told me among the Republican electorate. So if you're thinking about the primary and the period that we're in now, it makes a lot of sense for them to be talking about this. The problem is there's no evidence that there's really a mass motivating issue in the general election. Hmm. For as much as they've targeted in the non-presidential level, I'm thinking about states with gerrymandered state legislatures, I'm thinking about Nebraska or Wisconsin or things like that.

0 (9m 8s):
It's really caused those folks to push anti-trans bills on the state level and really to legislate anti wokeness into law. So it's having an impact, but if the question is, is it working on a national level or does it help the Republican nominee win the next presidential election, that is very much unclear. Do you think like the former president himself, Republican voters might eventually get tired of hearing about wokeness as the boogeyman? Totally. I think they could. Out of all those candidates making this their calling card, they haven't overtaken Donald Trump. you know, like Ron DeSantis might be the king of wokeness, but he's not the king of the primary at least so far.

0 (9m 51s):
Although this can be a kind of an issue that crosses across the Republican electorate, it's not clear that it makes it rise in priority past what voting for Donald Trump provides them. A Donald Trump is not going to be talking about wokeness left and right, but he will be talking about that underlying feeling, that retribution, the anti deep state dismantle, D o j and F B I like, I don't think these are disconnected things, but I don't think a Donald Trump led Republican party is one that is more Woke. If we could use that phrasing for the Republican candidates who are using it has yet to show a full political value.

0 (10m 35s):
But I also think that the whole party has become motivated by grievance. And if Donald Trump is the nominee that will be felt by public and everyone around, no matter if he's talking about wokeness or not. But if DeSantis is the nominee, oh then this is the whole election's about, we're running wokeness into like 2032. Everything will be about Woke, it will be, it will be a referendum on wokeness. I I imagine. I imagine if he, if he's a nominee, that's what this is gonna be about. I imagine

22 (11m 16s):
Anything you want can say, say with me now.

0 (11m 22s):
Ted Herndon hosts the Runup podcast for the New York Times If. you can't get enough 2024 coverage even though it's still like two July fourths and like two Halloweens away. This is definitely the show for you. More Woke mind virus on today explained. When we're back,

23 (11m 41s):
I'm Naim Aza and I produce and I'm on the podcast on with Kara Swisher. Last week Kara and I went out to Martha Stewart's house and it was, well just have a listen. It's great. Let's set the scene a little bit. Okay. The scene is we come in, we get taken in another vehicle throughout the estate. There's chickens, there's peacocks, there's horses, there's horses, there's stables, and there's a giant copper pot, which is the size of you actually get in the copper pot. It's actually perfect the size of, so I'm not leaving here. She could cook us into chili in that thing. She might, if the interview gets too tough, would and it would be delicious. Don't worry, we didn't get cooked in the cauldron. But thanks to Martha Stewart, the interview did get spicy.

24 (12m 20s):
I was hired by Mark Burnett to fire Donald. Oh, okay. To say you are fired. Just like he had said to hundreds of people right during his apprentice, I was to fire him and take over.

23 (12m 32s):
Oh Martha, to hear why she says she didn't get to fire Trump. Listen to On with Kara Swisher wherever you get your podcasts.

17 (12m 41s):
This September, the code conference enters a new era. Join me, Nili Patel, editor-in-Chief of the Verge and my two co-hosts, platformers Casey Newton and CNBC's Julia Borton. As we talk to the leaders making headlines in tech, business, politics, and the messy collision between them all, we'll dig deep into the topics that are shaping our world, like AI streaming and the future of social, social media. And as always, with code, no one will be safe from the hot seat. You can apply to attend the code conference at Vox media.com/code. That's Vox media.com/code.

25 (13m 19s):
The definition of Woke according to Marion Webster, Woke, aware of and actively attentive to important societal facts and issues, especially issues of racial and social justice. Woke, politically liberal as in matters of racial and social justice, especially in a way that is considered unreasonable or extreme

0 (13m 40s):
Today explained is back. Woke clearly means a lot of things to a lot of people. To bring some clarity on the etymology of this word, though, we reached out to Kathleen Newman Berman who wrote about Woke for Refinery 29.

25 (13m 54s):
Most historians trace it back to Jamaican activists, Marcus Garvey.

26 (13m 58s):
Hi Marcus Garvey. I'm the founder, first President General of the Universal Negro Improvement Association and African Communities League. An organization determined to unite all the black people of the world in the one great party to establish a government absolutely their own.

25 (14m 14s):
And his work. In 1923 when he told his followers to wake up Ethiopia, wake up Africa. It was a sentiment aimed to inspire political consciousness and social activism in the wake of colonialism.

0 (14m 27s):
It went all the way back to Marcus Garvey. Yes. Amazing. Yeah.

25 (14m 31s):
And then it takes us to 1938 in a protest song by Hu Ledbetter, aka led belly

26 (14m 38s):
Gospel,

25 (14m 40s):
Which which included the actual phrase, stay Woke. And it's in a spoken word component to the song Scottsboro Boys. And it references the story of nine black boys and men who were falsely accused of raping two white women in Alabama in 1931.

27 (14m 55s):
So I, I advise everybody to be a little careful when they go along through that. But stay, keep the eyes open.

25 (15m 0s):
What is said to be The first official printed definition was published by The New York Times in 1962 by William Melville Kelly. And he mentions the word in this piece called If You're Woke, you Dig it. And in the piece he's going through the slang terms that the Negro community, as he calls it, uses in Harlem, for example. And the essay talks about black slang and its evolution and its appropriation by white people. Fittingly. By 1965, Martin Luther King Jr. Essentially gave a speech on wokeness at Oberlin College. In the speech. He said, the great challenge facing every individual graduating today is to remain awake through this social revolution.

25 (15m 41s):
We

26 (15m 41s):
Must all learn to live to as brothers, we will all perish together as fools. We must see this and believe this and live by it. If we are to remain awake through a great revolution,

0 (16m 2s):
How do we go from this historic use of awake to this sort of contemporary use of Woke? When exactly does that evolution happen?

25 (16m 12s):
It kind of goes away. It exists in academia, but outside of that, it starts to become more prevalent in pop culture. In 2008 when Erica Badu releases her song Master Teacher, which includes the refrain, I stay Woke, I

11 (16m 28s):
Stay Woke.

25 (16m 32s):
And that term was included in the song by Georgia Ann Muldrow who co-wrote the song. Hmm. And in an interview to okay player, she describes what she told Erica Badu about the word Woke. And I really think this kind of encapsulates what the, the original meaning is and how it kind of is used in culture by black folks. So she said, Woke is if someone put a burlap sack on your head, knocked you out and put you in a new location, and then you come to and understand where you are and ain't home and the people around you ain't your neighbors, they're not acting in a neighborly fashion. They're the ones who conked you in on your head. You got kidnapped here and then you got punked out of your own language. Everything that's Woke understanding what your ancestors went through.

0 (17m 12s):
Wow. Wow. Why isn't that in Miriam Webster where Miriam Webster take note. That is a definition. Right.

25 (17m 20s):
So that song, you know, really struck a chord. And then we started to see Woke pop up more in music and tv. Childish Gambino releases Red Bone, the TV series Woke comes out on Hulu about a black cartoonist having an awakening after experiencing police violence.

28 (17m 40s):
He's No, no, no. Just to staple. No, no, no. You got

11 (17m 43s):
The wrong guy.

25 (17m 44s):
And I think, you know, around the 2010s leading to 2020, it's used to capture an idea of questioning power and of radical politics, but it's also, it's being taken less seriously, I would say in black vernacular. It's also used as as a joke.

0 (18m 1s):
So wait, so, so Erica Badu and potentially Childish Gambino and this series on Hulu, they are sincerely using this term Woke, but you're saying in black vernacular it's a bit of a joke.

25 (18m 14s):
I mean it's a bit of both. So Childish Gambino is referencing like staying awoke as far as getting cheated on in that song. And that I think is something in black vernacular, people were saying like, Hmm, whoa, whoa, stay Woke, stay Woke in reference to like making sure your, your eyes are wide open in your relationship. Yeah. In the Hulu show, Woke, they do kind of use it in a comedic sense at times to make fun of people who are always eager to point out all the issues within our society who are kind of pretentious with their knowledge of social issues. And there is a critique, I think, to be made of that kind of performative caricature of a Woke person.

25 (18m 57s):
I

29 (18m 58s):
First got Woke when I seen Terminator and I realized it wasn't just a movie, it was prophecy first identified by the 3.5 percenters. But that's another conversation.

30 (19m 10s):
I'm Dr. Hadassa say, good morning children, good morning, good morning. Who's see, see, see the white man will have you speaking death into the top of your day, try to kill your dreams just like they killed you, pee

25 (19m 30s):
In. But overall, I think it had a positive connotation and it was something to strive for. you know, the term Woke Bay was a way that you would describe men in Hollywood or in your life who were politically aware and it was seen as a positive thing in a partner. We're gonna

31 (19m 47s):
Celebrate a famous dude for being super hot, super smart, and affecting positive change in the world. Here's the name Woke Bay.

25 (19m 56s):
It was a trait that you wanted to look for, like somebody who was Woke

0 (20m 0s):
And then what happens between it being used in black vernacular as something of a joke and it becoming a political cudgel

25 (20m 11s):
In 2020 after George Floyd's murder where there was this open conversation about race in a way that I hadn't seen in my lifetime. And I think that the white discomfort that came from that summer is when the word Woke was twisted into a political tool and became the buzzword of the push against progressiveness that we see now. That summer white people were finally talking out loud about the ways in which structural racism shows up in our everyday lives. I

32 (20m 40s):
Take responsibility for every unchecked moment,

33 (20m 44s):
For every time. It was easier to ignore than to call it out for what it was.

34 (20m 48s):
Every not so funny joke, every unfair stereotype,

33 (20m 51s):
Every blatant injustice, no matter how big or small

25 (20m 54s):
They were talking about privilege and unconscious bias and microaggressions and things that are real, but frankly make white people very uncomfortable, certain white people. And I think that that shift in culture and the fact that real change looked like it was slowly and incrementally on the way I think that scared conservatives taking the word Woke, which signals progress and demonizing. It was a way of shutting down any progress in any attempts to push social activism and racial equality forward. And so you started hearing politicians refer to the Woke mob,

35 (21m 32s):
The elite media, the Woke mob. They don't like these people and they want the rest of America to dislike them too.

25 (21m 40s):
I think that the backlash to the Me Too movement comes into play here as well because all of a sudden the worst thing you could possibly do was to get canceled. Another word that comes from black vernacular that has been twisted and co-opted and then the people doing the canceling according to the right was the Woke mob. We

15 (21m 57s):
Fight the Woke in the legislature, we fight the Woke in the schools, we fight the Woke in the corporations. We will never ever surrender to the Woke mob. Florida is where Woke goes to die.

25 (22m 13s):
There's polls that backed this up that people do not know what the word Woke means. I think this was an USA Today and IIS poll and it was 56% of Americans said when they could define it, they defined it in the positive sense. So when people can define it, which I don't think is often, they are not using it in the same, you know, really divisive way that I think it has been used now as a political tool to divide and to weaponize this like cultural fear of progress. I also think when you hear the term in regards to there being a black actress playing the Little Mermaid, the

36 (22m 57s):
Ariel that my girls and daughters grew up with is now gone because of these Woke people over at their entertainment industry. I just hope that Disney collapses and burns What a Woke horrible company.

25 (23m 13s):
And you hear people saying, oh don don't like that there are Woke bandages. Now this was a tweet that went viral from a woman who was at her local drug store and there were different colors of bandaids, one of them being brown and she called them Woke bandages. When you hear that, like it's really hard to understand what they actually mean when they say the word Woke because in that case I think it's just a stand-in for black people or a stand-in for anything that's not white. In that case, I think it honestly it's bent into a slur.

0 (23m 46s):
Do you think this is the final chapter of this word? Or do you think it finds a way to have significant meaning again after this particular experience as, as the thing that everyone hates?

25 (23m 60s):
I mean it's hard cuz I think as soon as you see a white politician say any sort of slang word, we've lost it. Kiara Enbridges, she's a professor of law at uc, Berkeley called it a double violation. She said slang amongst black people is a love language and that it's frustrating when that slang becomes appropriated and the meaning morphs into something else. And then what we do though is we always create, and black folks always find new language to describe our specific plight and and what we're going through. So I think that, you know, when it comes to whether I'm gonna use it anymore, I think the only way I use Woke is in this context Sean.

25 (24m 41s):
Like it's in this context of being mad at how it's changed and talking about the frustration over how it's been co-opted. But in my everyday life and in conversation, I don't really use it anymore. And when I hear it, it's used in a context that is someone from the far right screaming at me for being too Woke in my dms or in my email. And in that case I take it as a, as a compliment.

0 (25m 7s):
Kathleen Newman Braman is the deputy director global at Refinery 29. Unbothered You can find her at Peace on Woke at refinery 20 nine.com. Thanks as well to Dr. Kelly Wright and Dr. Tracy Weldon, two linguists who helped us better understand this word. Our show today was produced by Una Petros. We were edited by Amina Al fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Patrick Boyd who in his spare time sings about being Woke.

22 (25m 38s):
Says anything you want is, say with me now your pink shirt is you want, she's with them. That's and sandals now.