3 (1s):
Stop searching and start streaming with HBO Max. HBO. Max is all of HBO and so much more extreme thousands of hours of entertainment with HBO's entire Library together with classic big screen favorites and exclusive Max Originals with more last gasps and goosebumps to choose from HBO. Max is the answer to that age-old question. What should we watch tonight? Start your free HBO Max trial and get back all that time. You spend searching for the next thing to New HBO Max viewers can enjoy seven days free then pay $14.99 per month free. Trial is for new customers. Only restrictions apply start streaming now at HBO Max.com Support for the show today comes from who we are.

3 (47s):
It's a Chronicle of racism in America. It's a podcast and it comes to you from Ben & Jerry's based on ACLU Deputy legal director, Jeffrey Robinson's acclaimed presentation of the same name who we are breaks down the origins and ongoing impact of white supremacy on our elections Health Care economy and more you can find new episodes of who we are on Tuesdays wherever you find new episodes of podcasts. The United States is in flux, you've got lots of people still being very careful wearing masks staying home avoiding crowds and then you've got lots of people getting back to business as usual dining in seeing movies committing to that wedding that was postponed six months ago between the two are people who are returning to some sort of normalcy, but not feeling totally comfortable about it going back to work with lots of reservations and today.

3 (1m 47s):
We're going to talk about those people and what protections they have in this pandemic. My name is Jordan. I work at a fitness company in California. I've been working from home and it's been about 6 months now of recently. I was requested to come to Texas for a business trip with the owner of our entire company who is flying in from Europe traveling during this pandemic is not something that I've done. Done. I haven't been on a flight since March. So this was my first flight throughout the whole pandemic. I felt like I didn't really have a choice and saying yes or no because it was such a amazing opportunity and I made jokes like I'm probably gonna die for my job like it was a risk.

3 (2m 40s):
I was willing to take I guess. My name is Jen. Well for the sake of the story, my name is Jen and I work at a private school in New York. So once all of the schools shut down, I was working remotely but middle to late summer. It was decided that anyone who was working in the school would be required to come in. And exposing myself to the virus or exposing others to the virus made me incredibly nervous because the pandemic was not in the distant past.

3 (3m 26s):
It was very much in the present. So I looked into options to see whether or not working from home would be possible just as it had been in the spring and that request was denied. And with that I had a pretty quick decision to make would I go into the building or what I choose to take an unpaid leave instead and I could not just think about myself in that matter in reality. This decision had so much to do with my family and my family's experience because was Early on in the pandemic.

3 (4m 16s):
I lost a very close family member to covid they were not much older than me. They were in far better health than me. So their death was a shock and it was very devastating to my family in the end. I took the unpaid leave. It wasn't an easy decision in many ways, but in some cases it's It's the easiest hardest decision. I had to make because as my siblings put to me we can't lose somebody

1 (4m 54s):
again.

3 (5m 1s):
My name is Allison. I am a school bus driver on Long Island in New York. I lost my job mid-march due to covid closing the New York schools and I remained unemployed until the day after Labor Day when schools reopened. My boss told me that I had to go back to work that I was not able to refuse the work or I would lose my unemployment. I have high blood pressure. I have diabetes. I'm middle-aged. I consider myself in a high-risk group.

3 (5m 44s):
I've been very careful only going out to groceries and doctors appointments and coming right back. I Even go through McDonald's drive-through. I can't take the risk. It's it's life and death and I'm terrified. We were told that all the children are required to wear masks when they ride the bus and during the school day, but we were also told if a child doesn't have a mask we should pick them up anyway. There's no plexiglass. There's no plastic there.

3 (6m 25s):
No face Shields. It's not enough. They have it taken enough steps to protect us. I never thought of myself as an essential worker or a Frontline worker. I'm I'm a bus driver. I never thought I'd have to risk my life to do my job.

3 (7m 5s):
Josh Idol finale of Bloomberg News has been reporting on the challenges people face when they go back to work and he stopped in his tracks when he found ear mcruiz single mother of three kids who works at McDonald's in Gilroy, California. In July, she took a couple days out sick because she was having shortness of breath and a cough and then she went back to work because she says her boss was refusing to pay for sick days. And so she needed to go back onto the job when she did she got a headache she got an anvil from a co-worker manager told her to stay at work and the next day she tested positive for the Coronavirus.

3 (7m 55s):
Crews in an experience that echoed what I ended up hearing from a lot of workers around the country said that her supervisor downplayed the risk of the virus said no one else can get it from you if you spent less than 10 minutes with them and that it was confidential the fact that she had the

1 (8m 17s):
virus so

3 (8m 21s):
Cruz who had urged her. Her supervisor to let her co-workers know but she had the virus came to the conclusion after talking to the supervisor that that Supervisor was not going to tell anyone about this and so are most started calling co-workers herself and telling them that she had tested positive for the virus and they should know she says that led to an angry phone call from her supervisor who asked her why she would tell people that she had the virus and then hung up on her in anger. for revealing her own covid diagnosis to people she worked with And the motivation here according to your mat is Staffing that previously there had been a situation where one of the workers there got the virus and when employees found out they wouldn't come into work and so it was hard to keep the shift staffed.

3 (9m 19s):
So Irma's view was that the company was withholding information so that people would keep coming into work and that if she went along with it. She withheld from people the information that she had the virus then it could be on her conscience that other people could get sick as a result. Camera Crews is experienced as part of a much larger pattern at hundreds of companies according to interviews and documents workers at Major employers like Amazon Cargill Target and Delta workers at all sorts of companies saying they've been silenced by gag orders by their bosses that restrict them from talking about covid-19 cases or discuss.

3 (10m 12s):
In covid-19 concerns in some places that takes the form of a written policy saying something like that employees should not inform others on their own about having covid-19 or should not post on social media about their own health status in other places. It's a matter of comments from managers or supervisors telling people that information that was I shared with them or information they got from their own covid-19 test is confidential and not to be shared with other people and filings with Federal and County agencies reveal.

3 (10m 59s):
There are hundreds of allegations of chilling workers from discussing covid cases were concerns or punishing workers because they did power companies justifying that In many cases workers say they were told this was a matter of privacy or confidentiality and some of the comments we received from companies about these allegations Echo that privacy is a concern here. But in many cases we're talking about workers own health information you have workers who wanted to tell people that they had the virus and we're told not to in other cases like allegedly at the Cheesecake Factory.

3 (11m 44s):
In Arizona, what was being described as confidential was not the fact of who had the virus but the fact that anyone in the workplace had covid-19 and wall workers say privacy laws have been cited as a reason to silence them about this. In fact, there is no federal law that requires companies to silence their own employees about health hazards in the workplace. So the contrary they're the federal laws that protect workers ability to talk to each other and to other people about workplace concerns and particularly about safety hazards that they're confronting at work and what public health leaders including a former head of Osha have said in facing these concerns is silencing workers is exactly the opposite of what companies should be doing.

3 (12m 44s):
Get a handle on the virus. In fact sharing information is pivotal to keeping people safe as shining a light on these cases at the Cheesecake Factory at Amazon at McDonald's helped. Change any of these policies or any of these sort of norms Within These companies. Since this story came out. I've been inundated with allegations and concerns and responses from workers at more companies who say this has happened to them and This reporting is coming out as we've been seeing efforts to find ways to address this issue and the broader set of covid-19 workplace fears and Hazards in a moment when the federal government's response has left many workers and Advocates dissatisfied.

3 (13m 47s):
So we've seen some states and cities moving to pass their own. Safety standards or whistleblower protection laws we've seen litigation used to try to take on companies or take on the federal government itself to force a different response to these issues. We've also seen workers engaging in their own data sharing as a way to try to get around with AC as efforts to silence them and to prevent information from coming out. What happened to your mom Josh?

3 (14m 27s):
She is back at work and said that she still had not been paid for her time in quarantine. Although the franchise owner of the restaurant says that her allegations mischaracterize what they've done and that they do provide sick leave and notify people who may have been

1 (14m 47s):
exposed

3 (14m 51s):
Cruz. I'm with informing co-workers about her own health and refusing to treat it as merely confidential information. Also took a complaint to the County Environmental Health Department. As a lot of workers around the country have gone whether it's to the federal government or to the county or into court trying to address choices by large and small companies. Throughout the United States that they say are making this pandemic

1 (15m 26s):
worse.

3 (15m 41s):
Standing between employees and companies are a whole lot of attorneys. I'll speak to one after the break. Google's free tools are designed to help support millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working with Google tools small businesses are staying connected to their customers by updating their business hours switching to curbside pickup activating online booking and more and if you want to support them, there are ways to help whether you're searching for restaurants salons bookstores Jim's boutiques or any other business near you show your support by ordering takeout, right?

3 (16m 33s):
Review buying a gift card or making a donation all With a Little Help from Google. Consumers for safe CBD wants to know what's in your CBD in a recent report to Congress the FDA found that a sampling of CBD products. They tested were mislabeled some of them contains more than 120 percent of the CBD amount listed and nearly 20 products contained THC the ingredient that can cause psychoactive effects as well consumers for safe. CBD is calling on the FDA to regulate the CBD Market to protect consumers from A harms posed by untested products though.

3 (17m 14s):
The FDA has issued warnings. This is not deterred some vendors for making sweeping Health claims about their products ability to treat a wide range of serious medical conditions. Remember just because CBD products are on grocery store shelves does not mean they're risk-free be smart and stay healthy learn more about consumers for safe CBD at for safe. CBD dot-org. That's the number four. Or sa Fe CBD dot o-- r-- g-- as an employment lawyer. Ulka rum. Chandani Raj has been focusing on covid-19 at the workplace since January, but for employers not employees.

3 (18m 0s):
She's been making sure companies have plans in place to keep employees safe. So I asked her about the situation so many American workers find themselves in with no. Extra benefits from the federal government. You can either go back to work or quit and if you quit there's no guarantee, you can get unemployment insurance traditionally. Yes, but there's nothing that would stop the employee from filing and in many situations employers may not contest if the employer files so an employer can always file for unemployment benefits it may or may not be denied depending on the situation but basically employees face a tough road if they feel edible with something their employers asking them to do because they probably won't get unemployment benefits if they quit historically speaking historically speaking.

3 (18m 52s):
Yes employees do have the right to say if there's a constructive discharge issue for instance if they really do believe something is unsafe and they've talked to their employer about it in the employer hasn't corrected it in those cases. They may be able to claim constructive discharge and in that situation. Most of the time unemployment is granted at least and in certain states that are prone to Grant unemployment benefits to employees. How many states are those quite a few? I would like to say like half less than half. It's hard to say I would say about 50 percent, huh?

3 (19m 32s):
So what about the rest of the country? What about the 50% who aren't going to get unemployment and might be forced back into an uncomfortable position or or maybe even forced back and been told not to say anything when people come down with covid like we heard about are Mo well in those situations employees have the right to go to an attorney and try to see what other claims they can allege against their employer. There's always some sort of recourse and if an employer is doing something that's against the law. There's always that ability for the employee to file a lawsuit against the employer which is what we see Across the Nation, you know with covid-19. We are seeing an increase in whistleblower claims in other claims of that sort where the employee May complain about a workplace issue what we replace exposure issue.

3 (20m 23s):
In addition. They can also complain to Osha. Osha is accepting complaints. I could tell you specifically to my state California. The division had received over 3,500 complaints over four months between I think it was February and July we what's the liability employee. Jurors have if they are, you know causing super spreading events right now. If they mandate the people come back and then all of those people get sick. Well, there's a lot of liability that's involved an employer could be of course shut down, but on top of that there could be wrongful death claims if there's a fatality involved there could be of course numerous workers compensation claims if those employees did actually get the virus at work or If they're in a state where there's a presumption that if an employee's working and they contract covid-19.

3 (21m 18s):
They got it at work from an OSHA standpoint in those facilities where there's clusters of cases or there's outbreaks, you know, you could have an extensive amount of penalties the largest we've seen with covid-19 was in California, which was a $400,000 violation. So there's a lot of different types of liabilities. Leti that can come up if an employer is not trying to protect its workers. You're kind of in the middle of this advising companies on health and safety for employees. I wonder you know, do you think the situation we're in favors employers or employees employers stand to lose a lot of money employees could lose their lives.

3 (22m 3s):
I think it depends where you're at. I think there are some states like, Oregon, Virginia, California. Either have developed emergency rules or developing emergency rules, even Michigan where they are properly inspecting and investigating any type of covid complaint. We are seeing a lot of that and many states and in other states probably not, you know, as I mentioned, you know fifty percent of States at least have a pretty strong unemployment program. I would say 50% or more States also have a very strong. Operational safety and health program. There are 22 separate states that that run separate from the federal government that have their own State program.

3 (22m 50s):
So there definitely are those states that are I would consider very much employee-friendly as there are those states that are definitely more employer friendly. So if you're lucky you live in a state that has the infrastructure to protect you and if not your kind of battle luck. I want to say you're out of luck. I think you just have to look at other avenues to try to get protection. You can always make a complaint to the federal government. We have seen federal inspectors come in. In fact, I have many cases right now with employers that are being inspected by federal OSHA as well, and there's always

1 (23m 35s):
attorneys.

3 (23m 47s):
Olga ROM trim Donnie Raj is an attorney. She works at littler Mendelson. I'm Sean Rama serum. This is today

1 (23m 56s):
explained.

3 (24m 12s):
Okay, guys, it's Jan again. Check out new episodes of my show sexology playing now only on Kibby that is spelled Q UI bi and if you download the app right now, you'll get a two week free trial. Once you're on quippy. You can watch other badass shows like dummy a comedy adventure story featuring Anna Kendrick and her BFF who just so happens to be a feminist sex doll, but not all her shows involve sex. I mean there's this one with Liam Hemsworth. worth Hi, I'm Avery troubleman and I'm the new host of the cut podcast from New York Magazine and the VOX media podcast Network.

3 (24m 53s):
Every Wednesday the cut editorial team and I will explore surprising provocative ideas about style self culture and Power in our first episode looking at what it means to be optimistic in 2020. You can listen And subscribe to the cut now on Apple podcast or wherever you listen.