0 (1s):
It's today Explained World Cup Edition. I'm Noel King in the host country. Cutter leaders made a promise some years back. Today's show is about whether it was kept A frenzy of construction, accompanies any World Cup. And after winning the right to host, Cutter vowed to reform a very old and very exploitative system that keeps foreign workers bonded to their employers virtually without rights, including the right to say no, that's dangerous, that's unhealthy, that could kill me. And people died on World Cup construction sites, but no one including us can figure out how many, because Cutter's very secretive. Today we're gonna hear from two people who moved to QAR for work.

0 (42s):
One, a Kenyan man who tried to scrape together a living there and one, an American researcher with a PhD who was looking into this very question, Did Qar keep its promise that's coming up,

2 (60s):
The critically acclaimed FX show. Atlanta comes to a close this week. It became known for challenging viewers expectations, if not downright provoking those viewers repeatedly.

3 (1m 12s):
The thing I've realized from doing four seasons of Atlanta stuff I think is funny. Some people might be like, That's terrifying or that's very sad.

2 (1m 21s):
Why Atlanta actually meant to piss you off. This week on Intuit Vulture's pop culture podcast,

0 (1m 38s):
It's today explained, I'm Noelle King. Most of the people who work, who do any type of job in Q are not qy. They're foreigners who come to the country to earn money. They include every type of employee from CEOs to construction workers, 2 million people. So when Qatar won the right to host the World Cup and had to build a staggering amount of infrastructure, there was an understanding that migrant workers would do the actual work.

5 (2m 4s):
My name is Jore. I am 40 years old. Actually next month I'm approaching 40. I'm a Kenyan, of course, a family man of one wife and three boys

0 (2m 19s):
In Kenya. He works with a charity called Equim as a labor violations investigator.

5 (2m 24s):
Actually, I'm an investigator under research at the same time that's basically Joffrey for you.

0 (2m 31s):
So in the beginning, Joffrey's story was not much different than the stories of any of the thousands of people who moved to Qatar for work. Every year.

5 (2m 38s):
In 2018, things were not working well for me and I lost the job, which was providing for my family. So after searching, I decided to go to Qatar.

0 (2m 53s):
He paid a recruiter 1500 US dollars, a lot more money than he had. He had to take out a loan. He showed his credentials, resume passport. Eight days later the deal was done

5 (3m 3s):
And I was airborn to Qatar.

0 (3m 6s):
Joffer really wanted a job in security, but there were no security jobs. So he ended up working as a technician's assistant in a petrochemical plant. It wasn't complicated work, but it was difficult. His job was to carry the technician's heavy tools and his days were long.

5 (3m 21s):
I was working for six days a week, one day rest. We usually wake up at four o'clock, at exactly 5:00 AM we are picked by the bus. The work site was one hour drive and work started at six 30. Normal working hours were from six 30 to three 30 and of course there was a standard mandatory overtime of two hours. So the normal duty day would end at five 30. So we would arrive at the accommodation again at seven in the night.

0 (3m 59s):
And for this, he made the equivalent of 470 US dollars a month.

5 (4m 4s):
But there were a lot of unnecessary deductions of the wages. The weather was taking a toll on us. I feel like I'm, I'm, I'm running short of death because of the humidity. If they, they report you the entire day is wages is deducted from your monthly salary.

0 (4m 23s):
So if a guy worked slowly, he'd lose that day's wages. But if he took a sick day,

5 (4m 28s):
They went farther even to like deduct two days instead of the one day you stayed at home because you were feeling uncomfortable. So people would rather go to work so that at least only hours would be deducted. Then staying at home, they deducted double days.

0 (4m 45s):
Jeffrey did that job for almost two years and then he got lucky

5 (4m 49s):
Because of scarcity of guys who could speak fluent English and who could write and read. I was reassigned and given responsibilities and in that process I came into contact with a lot of procedures, especially on process safety and worker safety. Unfortunately, one of the Arabic guys, a friend of mine, an engineer, saw the competence in me and he actually paid full school fees for me to go and study the occupational and safety and health. So when I left that company, my immediate next job was as a safety officer.

5 (5m 33s):
First I worked in a construction site. Then secondly, I worked in a al and then finally I worked in Lue Stadium. The last job I was earning around thousand five hundreds. That was money.

0 (5m 58s):
It was a boom time. It was like the entire world had descended on Q

5 (6m 2s):
Asians from Bangladesh, India, Philippines, Nepal, Malaysia, Indonesia, Africans from West Africa like Nigeria, Ghana, Uganda, Tanzania, and Kenya of course.

0 (6m 20s):
And there was one very obvious problem for a safety inspector like him.

5 (6m 24s):
The problem is that they didn't even know their right. They do, They didn't even know what is expected. So to convince someone that is being exploited was one of the biggest challenges. For example, it is common knowledge that one person cannot carry a load of over 25 kg. But you find a supervisor forcing someone to carry a 50 kg load alone with the wrong posture, which might different lead to severe back injury or even permanent injuries. So whenever I tell them, I tell them, Stop, this is wrong.

5 (7m 6s):
It tells me, No, no, no, no, no. The boss has said I should do it. So most of this was more of ignorance though. It was direct exploitation.

0 (7m 18s):
Did you ever see anyone killed or injured on the job

5 (7m 21s):
Be killed? I've not witnessed, but I've heard of several. But injuries. I've seen so many, So many. I remember when people working at height, I'm telling these guys they, this hit is too much. People are sweaty, their hands are sweaty. Most likely people working at height are going to have sleeps or falls because of sweat, because even the gloves would not work anymore. I say this and within minutes we had a guy falling from height. Luckily it was not fertile, but he broke his leg.

0 (7m 59s):
It was things like that. The fact that he'd said this is dangerous. And then minutes later a guy pitches off of a building that made Joffrey increasingly but very quietly take up the job of organizing workers.

5 (8m 13s):
I became sort of like a leader and I started creating awareness on the basic minimum rights a worker should expect from the employer. And that is when I started getting into trouble with everybody because an enlightened citizenry is a threat to leadership. So even my one year, nine months working as a technician helper did not end because I I, I got another job. Actually they terminated me because they thought I am a bad influence to people. Cause people were now standing up to to exploitation.

5 (8m 55s):
People were going even to the ministry of Labor and getting their dues. Almost everybody was like, when they get in trouble with the company, they're going for the disciplinary hearing. I was like the pro bono lawyer. So in the long run, this came to the years of the company and they knew, ah, there's a lawyer within the employees. I had now become popular while I started, I started with one WhatsApp group until they reached 15 WhatsApp groups and those who had genuine cases which needed legal advice for legal intervention, I was referring them to relevant government agencies.

5 (9m 36s):
Actually, I was arrested by the government of Qatar. Oh, deported.

0 (9m 41s):
Deported. So what are your feelings about Qatar now?

5 (9m 45s):
Qatar is a good country. Qatar has provided a lot of employment opportunities to migrant workers from all over the world. My only concern is at what cost? Is it by exploitation? Are they like maximizing on the poverty levels of these countries, especially Asian Africa. If you compare Qatar with other Gulf nations, it is way better, but it's only better on paper.

0 (10m 19s):
You're Kenyan, so I assume you like soccer. Are you gonna watch the World Cup?

5 (10m 25s):
Actually, my team is Brazil, but the fire in me is not there because every time I hear the word World Cup, I try and remember a few serious cases at seen Qatar and I feel like it'll be an insult for me to enjoy while there's somebody somewhere who has suffered a permanent injury or there's a family somewhere mourning their lost one, yet there's nothing for them. I'm trying to imagine my favorite team Brazil lifting the World Cup trophy, but workers who have toil day and night getting zero compensation.

5 (11m 14s):
This makes me feel sad and this makes me feel like I can't watch the World Cup.

ClickUp (11m 28s):
Support for the show today comes from click up. What would you do if you had an extra day every week I would try and jump in some water, not like a public pool, which DC does well, but a naturally occurring body of water that isn't totally polluted. If anyone knows where the good ones of those are at in the DC area, let me know. Click up wants to get you that extra day by saving you all the time that you spend clicking between different platforms and apps and docs and spreadsheets. So you know that they're saying might just be like a whole day every week that you spend wasting and, and they can save you that time by putting all your stuff into one place for you and your team. Listeners can use the code. Explain to get 15% off click ups, massive unlimited plan for a year, meaning you can start saving time for under $5 a month. You can sign up today@clickup.com and use the code. Explained the offer ends soon.

Cover Story | Seed Money Podcast (12m 36s):
This season uncover story. He's the most articulate, he's the most savvy. He's very cunning. It seemed like the perfect story, the kind that only comes around once or twice in a journalist career. Like He's very, very, It's why he destroys everybody Out in the woods of Montana, one billionaire was creating his own world. Also he could hide something truly despicable. Have you heard of girls being like followed? Is that something you've experienced? At least that's what we were told.You ask if I consider him a friend or if he's someone I trust. Both are absolutely yes. I would trust him with my life. This season on cover story, what actually happened Happens once in everybody's life. And this guy is a master liar, master liar. Cover story. Season two, seed money. Listen wherever you get your podcasts

0 (13m 40s):
Today explained, We're back cutter's secrecy makes it impossible to know how many people died building World Cup facilities. Their labor system. The one Joffrey got caught in is very old. And to explain how it came to be, we called Natasha Iskander, who liked Dore, moved to QAR for work, but she's a professor at nyu. She wrote a book about her research in qar called Does Skill Make US Human Migrant Workers in 21st century QAR and beyond.

14 (14m 8s):
QAR is kind of this very special node in the world that has always been part of the globalized economy. Really for centuries long before Gutar became a leader in oil and natural gas production for export, the region has always been the site of global commodity booms. And these global commodity booms have always been constrained by the availability of workers. And so in order to support these workers, people were brought in as workers under many different systems from enslaved workers in forms of debt bondage and others.

14 (14m 49s):
Let me just tell you about these global commodity booms and busts. The modern ones started with the pearling industry,

15 (14m 59s):
The fruit of countless hours of dangerous and grueling exposure to salmon sea in cramped and difficult conditions.

14 (15m 6s):
Pearls were the luxury fashion item that all very wealthy families wanted to display at the turn of the 20th century. And Qatar was the center of pearl harvesting. This was a thoroughly international industry and labor was brought in from all over the region, primarily as enslaved and debt bonded workers from East Africa, from what is today, Afghanistan and Iran. It was shaped by merchants and middlemen from India and Iran.

15 (15m 39s):
The captain holds the pearls until the visit of the TA wash or pearl broker from the

14 (15m 44s):
Mainland Financeers and commodity traders from Paris and New York.

15 (15m 49s):
The pearls are handed over

14 (15m 51s):
And that was a a massive pearling boom that went bust just a few decades later when artificial pearl production was developed and got, There's population collapsed from around 60,000 in 1920 to something close to 16,000 around 1940.

16 (16m 18s):
Now as never before. The drive for new oil reserves in the Middle East is a vital importance to the great part.

14 (16m 24s):
But then shortly after World War ii, the British who had been prospecting for oil in the region negotiated with kata for concession to exploit oil in Qta.

16 (16m 36s):
Up from the desert wells along the pipelines and down to the coast. The precious flow of oil brings new benefits to be shared by the peoples of east and west.

14 (16m 48s):
And the oil company also faced those same labors constraints and imported workers from all over the world.

0 (16m 55s):
Okay, so in the US we would call this a guest worker program, but QRA has a word for their system and it's called Ella. Tell me why it's unique

14 (17m 4s):
In its bones. The ELLA system is not that different from temporary labor regulation systems around the world. And CA and Arabic literally translate to sponsor what distinguished Qatar's cafe system on the day that Qatar won the World Cup hosting rights is that at that time it was one of the most restrictive systems in the world. It was tat amount to a formal system of bonded labor Workers who were in Qatar under the ELLA system were bound to their sponsor who was generally their employer.

14 (17m 53s):
That sponsor could deport the worker at any time for any reason. The worker could not withhold labor for any reason, so the worker could not stop working even in cases of wage theft, dangerous conditions, physical abuse. The worker was also not able to quit. They could also not change jobs. There were no minimum wage protections, no right to organize, no worker voice or representation. And the worker also could not leave the country. At Bill, the worker required an exit visa to leave the country and that exit visa had to be authorized by the sponsor in conjunction with the government.

14 (18m 43s):
So even if you decided as a worker, I've had enough, I wanna go home, you couldn't actually leave. You needed an exit visa and once you went home, you couldn't return to Qatar to take another job if you so desired unless you got the permission and ascent from your prior employer. How long was this system in place? In its modern iteration, it was in place starting in the early two thousands and actually became more restrictive as QAR needed more labor. It started undergoing a series of reforms, actually thanks to the global campaign, against some of the worst aspects of this ELLA system.

14 (19m 33s):
And then in 2017 there was a complaint filed with the International Labor Organization that Gaza was abetting modern slavery. And so Gata very quickly formed a partnership with the ILO and under the tutelage of the ILO, instituted a series of reforms that were quite remarkable and quite fast. What were they under those reforms? QAR put in place a wage protection system to try and track who was not paying workers. It abolished the exit visa for most classes of workers are now workers can leave the country at will.

14 (20m 14s):
It established a minimum wage of $275 a month. Still very low workers now have the ability to quit their jobs and they have the ability to change jobs if they so desire. These reforms look very good on paper. But what I will say is that in practice, the labor relations in Qatar have not changed that meaningfully from when the ELLA system existed under its previous iteration. Even the ILO will concede this. The workers find it very difficult to change jobs, almost impossible. They face retaliation.

14 (20m 56s):
Employers will report them for absconding, they face potential detention. The additional feature here is that it exists in a universe of other regulations. And the most stringent of these is a system of physical segregation. So most of the construction workers in qar, for example, live in an area outside of Doha called the industrial area, which is a place for labor camps, cement factories, equipment storage. It's grim, it's isolated, and it is policed. And workers cannot actually travel through the city at will.

14 (21m 36s):
They face the prospect of detention and deportation if they do so. So imagine trying to find another job on your one day off when you can't actually move through the city at will.

0 (21m 49s):
So a migrant worker named Joffrey tells us he was deported for organizing. Does that track with what you heard happens?

14 (21m 56s):
Yes, absolutely. It's totally expected. Any kind of labor organizing in Kaza is prohibited. But one of the things that I found really striking Noel was that I saw strikes Wildcat spontaneous strikes at every single site I was on. And the surprising thing for me was that employers tolerated these strikes as long as they stayed within certain limits. So let me tell you what those limits are. They had to be short, you know, a day or two. And when workers struck, they had to do it in their labor camps. No protests or challenges were tolerated on site.

14 (22m 37s):
And the protest had to be limited to one nationality.

0 (22m 42s):
Wait, why only one nation? So like Bangladeshi workers could strike, but if if a Kenyan like Joffrey slipped in there, we'd have a problem.

14 (22m 50s):
Yes, exactly. Because if workers organized across nationality, it meant that workers were not, were no longer blowing off steam as Bangladeshis or Nepalis or Egyptians who just needed a day to kind of get their heads back. But rather they were organizing as workers with a class consciousness. And those protests were immediately disappeared through deportation.

0 (23m 18s):
That is absolutely wild. And so what's gonna happen to all of those workers who move to Qatar to build the stadiums and the metro and the new buildings? What happens now?

14 (23m 27s):
So if QAD imagines itself as kind of hosting these games and then closing up shop, then you can imagine workers being sent home. But that is not Qatar's ambition. Qatar's ambition is to position itself as a global destination for sports and culture and as an important political node. And to do that it will need to continue to build and continue to maintain the buildings it has built. So it will need a workforce, possibly slightly smaller, but it will need a workforce in construction for the foreseeable future.

0 (24m 7s):
Everything you've told me to this point suggests that if QAR does wanna become a global destination, a a London or a Tokyo or a deli, some of this stuff is just gonna have to change. It's not, it's not gonna fly right Over time,

14 (24m 22s):
I think how much it continues to change will depend very much on how vital these global conversations remain. And I mean that with, with respect to Qatar, but also with respect to other places around the world. I mean, one of the most encouraging things about this cup to me as someone who has cared about working conditions for migrant and immigrant workers for a very long time is that we are finally having really high profile conversations about what is fair, what is just, If we could continue to have those conversations in relation, for example, to the World Cup that will be held in North America in 2026, it would be a powerful political move and statement by the global community.

14 (25m 14s):
If we could say, just like we ask Qar to reform its regulatory system vis-a-vis migrant workers, we are going to ask the US and Canada or anywhere else we hold a global event to do the same.

0 (25m 40s):
Today's show was produced by Halima Shaw and edited by Amina Elad. It was engineered by a theme Shapiro and fact checked by Laura Bullard and Matthew Colette. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.