0 (2s):
It's all my work.

1 (6s):
MENA turns like a little E and comes away from trouble. Little squat, man comes inside, leaves it for dead.

2 (12s):
Kelly just seemed to hang in the air A majestic head for one

3 (18s):
BPI PE Mena try to put into words what makes them legends.

4 (23s):
The uric poet Ed Gallian used to say about MENA that he dribbled as if the ball was stuck to his foot

3 (32s):
And messy.

4 (32s):
You told Melin Messey played as if the ball was actually inside his boot between the shoe and his skin.

0 (41s):
You is absolutely

3 (48s):
Coming up on today explained World Cup Edition. How to become a shocker. God

0 (54s):
Astonishing Jawdropping genius.

5 (1m 1s):
This episode is brought to you by Topia. How do you know if your blues are actually depression or if the reason you can't focus is really anxiety talk Iry is here to help. Within a week you can have a virtual visit with a real psychiatrist who takes the time to listen to you and takes your insurance. It's real medical care for the most common mental health conditions out there ready to talk, take the free assessment@topia.com slash go. That's talk I A T y.com/go

6 (1m 32s):
On. Its Black Friday. Sale is now on. Discover our lowest prices at our biggest sale of the year with up to 60% off, including 25% off supplements, 10% off fitness, 20% off nutrition and more. The sale ends December 4th, so make sure to save big while supplies last. Learn more@on.com. Coupons and codes do not stack on top of sale discounts.

0 (2m 0s):
Pima Shaw passes the mo passes to Noel King. She cuts. Oh my, it's,

3 (2m 11s):
Are you gonna be offended if I call it soccer? I can also say football.

4 (2m 15s):
I do not care. They're all the same to me. I don't human beings kicking a football. I would watch horses kick a football. It's all, it's all honestly incredibly moving.

3 (2m 26s):
Roger Bennett, founder of the Men in Blazers media network and co-author of Gods of Soccer. This World Cup is a complicated one. There are some positives, there are some negatives. Where's your mind at?

4 (2m 38s):
You're asking a Jen who's just spent the last five months of my life working on a podcast series called World Corrupt. This is a strange world cup. No, I am not gonna lie. The

7 (2m 52s):
Winner to organize the 2 22 FIFA World Cup is Qatar

8 (2m 60s):
Allegations of vote buying and human rights abuses have marred the run up to the competition. Some fans are even threatening a

4 (3m 7s):
Boycott moving it to November, which is forced football to rip up its entire season and kind of jam this thing in

9 (3m 13s):
From May to September. The conditions will be unbearable. So with two consecutive months needed, November and December have been identified as the only feasible option.

4 (3m 23s):
Normally the teams have a couple of weeks to train and play a couple of essentially preseason games and, and work out their kinks. These are gonna be akin to all star teams flung out into the field with very little chemistry. There's a lot of games that are compressed over compressed in a very short period of time. So I think it would be a world cup of deep uncertainty.

3 (3m 54s):
You recently co-wrote a book in which you cataloged this sports 100 greatest players in your view, which sounds like a very divisive and dangerous thing to do. Tell me about your

4 (4m 3s):
Book. Oh, it's a ridiculous thing to do. Can we just be candid? It's it's a, it's a ridiculous thing to do in that the joy of sports. Isn't it so subjective? We form our opinions, we call them scientific and then we, we know how ridiculous they are even as we hold them up, but then we prepare to defend them with the heat of a thousand sons.

3 (4m 24s):
What makes a soccer player a legend?

4 (4m 26s):
What is greatness is something that can be awarded by football fans in a variety of different ways and also the game of football is a wonder because as Albert Camu said once a great goalkeeper, before he became an even greater writer, he's alleged to have said that everything he knows about morality and humankind he learned through football, football is ultimately about decision making and the crucible of pressure. And so you do see the whole of humanity reflected And so to me, greatness can come from goals scored within a context of politics, of culture, of history.

10 (5m 10s):
Saturday, September 6th, a historic day for Armenia. For the very first time a Turkish president traveled to Armenia to attend a football game inside the stadium. Some fans seized this opportunity to ask for the reopening of their shared border.

4 (5m 24s):
It can be conferred by moments of humanity themselves that are revealed. And so greatness can also come from tenacity, from perseverance, from endurance. There are greats who come from the body of work. There's greats who come from the innovation, the way they've changed the game. There's great, you can come in a moment of symbolism for their nature.

11 (5m 47s):
There's been unrest in Iran since the death of Masa Amini. In the custody of the morality please Iran's football World Cup bound team has dared the establishment with a public act of defiance. The entire squad covered their official jerseys with black jackets ahead of a friendly with Senegal in

4 (6m 6s):
Austria. So ultimately it's about action, but it's also about context. Now,

1 (6m 11s):
Do you believe that legends are made at the World Cup?

4 (6m 14s):
The undoubtedly are. You know, you asked me about greatness and when you think of greatness, you think as a football fan of the true greats like PE

2 (6m 23s):
And all mighty leap by the famous Brazil. Number 10 PE just seemed to hang in the air. A majestic head for one n

4 (6m 33s):
A me donna, the argentin wonder who inflicted agony and trauma on the English nation after the fors

1 (6m 41s):
Warna on the later outside and pine val Donna Hena and challenging he was about it's gonna be allowed,

4 (6m 59s):
Which as a kid where when he handled the ball into the net against my English heroes and then minutes later scored one of the single greatest goals I've ever seen destroying the whole team, running through the whole team, slaloming through them

1 (7m 13s):
Me Donna turns like a little E and comes away from trouble. Little squat man comes side, leaves him for dead outside, leaves in for dead and puts the ball away. And that is why was the greatest player in the world.

4 (7m 27s):
And then slapping the ball home deliriously As a kid, I went outside into my backyard and smashed the A football through my own lounge window and my father, who was quite a strict bloke, just popped his head out as the glass tinkled around him and said, I understand your pain, Roger. I understand and now I have a photograph. I'm looking at you from my office of me Donna handling the ball, which he signed over my English to remind me of the memories in sport which often feel the most traumatic are often the ones that you carry with you in life and they, they ultimately turn into the most wonderful And the World Cup is the greatest stage.

4 (8m 15s):
It's the most watched. They're estimating 5 billion people, I don't know how they actually work. That number out will be tuning in to this thing. I always think about it like a soccer theme, bar mitzvah, to which the whole world is invited, it's stopped wars, it's created heroes and the greats are always inextricably connected to it. But so are human beings who came out of nowhere. This is the power of the World Cup. There's a 1990 World Cup. I remember a footballer, Toto Chy who was a minor, minor character in world football. No one outside of Italy probably understood this kind of balding wild eye striker.

12 (8m 56s):
The 27 year old was the last man to be named in the Italian squad on the back of one good season Aventus.

4 (9m 3s):
And out of nowhere he just came off as a substitute off the bench and scored six goals in seven games. This

2 (9m 11s):
Has be a chance and it's for the Italians and Chy within moments of coming on the pitch has given Italy the goal. They so desperately, desperately needed

4 (9m 26s):
By the way, barely made the blip again. I mean Chy was just a random bloke who was almost last star fighter plucked out of obscurity to become a woo great. But there are now, you know, thousands of babies named after

14 (9m 42s):
Many years have passed. But what I did is still fresh in people's minds and I hope it will be for many years to come.

4 (9m 51s):
And that is the power of the World Cup. The heroes will be forged in the next month, whose name we never even breathed before. Tell

3 (10m 0s):
Me about one who's playing in this World Cup. Tell me about a contemporary legend,

15 (10m 4s):
What that world, there's a new number 10 Killian and star shining. Now

4 (10m 10s):
Killian and Bpe was a 19 year old French phenomen, just a gentleman who grew up outside of Paris in the French suburbs, which are revered as just a melting pot of footballing. Take a Petri dish too. Just the, the number of people packed in there, the amount of coaching that's dropped in in a few square miles and just the number of football obsessives. It just produces a strain of incredible football's. No more impressive than this human being who is a blur of speed.

16 (10m 44s):
I never seen something like this in my life. This guy he started to run but like it, it looked like everybody was walking

4 (10m 57s):
And he led France to a World Cup win of wonder and became a thelia that stood resending over the entire world.

17 (11m 8s):
Of course you have to work, of course you have to do, like you said, sacrifice. Of course there is a lot of things, but the most important thing is you have to dream and that's something free. And then something give you the power and the patient to do the things after.

4 (11m 22s):
And it was magnificent to see someone that young, that skill, that confident almost essentially in an American term point at the bleachers and just hit home, run after home, run after home run and lifting a delirious nation on his back and carrying it to glor. Then it's this stage where there's just an instantaneous global heroism forged and kids all over the world will try and mimic a mime and may believe that they are doing the overhead kick that propelled the Netherlands to glory and the semifinal shouting out the name of the gold scorer whose name is still to be revealed.

4 (12m 3s):
It's like a telenovela that's being played out live, unscripted with the whole world. Watching it makes a Marvel comic Blockbuster movie seems small in comparison.

3 (12m 14s):
Tell me who are the heroes or the legends who will be on the field beginning next

4 (12m 18s):
Week? Brazil are very much the favorites that technical yellow and green golden shining giant, a collective fist

18 (12m 27s):
Nama Nic Jr. Charles's done well as Spurs. We know Rodrigo is brilliant this weekend for reamed. It is just a wealth of options for

4 (12m 36s):
Brazil, England as ever over the expectant of their nation. They got into the semifinal at the last World Cup and our dreamy of going further self-sabotage and doom is no doubt their national faith. England

19 (12m 51s):
Are not in good form going into this World Cup without a win in any of their last six matches, which included a for drumming at the hands of Hungary who didn't even manage to qualify for this World Cup.

4 (13m 2s):
But I think the story going into the World Cup is that of Argentina, who will have Leno Messi, an aging Li Messi and Le Messi who late in his career has found a new joy, almost a new freedom is playing as he did as a kid.

0 (13m 29s):
Argentina,

4 (13m 33s):
When he's played in the light blue and white of Argentina, the jersey, there's almost been too much pressure. It's almost weight of chain mail and dragged him down. He's disappointed the nation, the sight of Leno Messi leaving the field having been defeated at the World Cup with tears running down his face. I always think that's what Prince meant when he sang. This is what it sounds like when Doves cry. This Argentinian team though fifth World Cup for messy. He's actually playing in a cohesive, collective, joyous way. And that notion of messy to me undoubtedly the greatest footballer that has ever been to haters.

4 (14m 16s):
They'll say yes, but he never won a World Cup like PE did, like me, Donna did. That's really the storyline going into this world cup that everybody's looking at can and or mess ascend to his rightful throne by winning it all. This is

0 (14m 31s):
What it sounds like. Win

3 (14m 52s):
Support for today. Explain comes from Etsy. Finding thoughtful personal holiday gifts can be a challenge. Whether you're shopping for a parent, your best friend, a coworker Etsy might have something special that hits the mark. Etsy offers a wide range of giftable items that your loved ones might actually enjoy. You can explore a number of different categories like fashion, decor, personalized gifts and more, or search for a unique handmade take on something more specific. Every storefront on Etsy is a different small business helmed by a maker, which means that your purchases offer online artisan's real direct support. If you're new to Etsy, you can use the code Mary 10, that's m e r r y 10 at the checkout for 10% off your first purchase.

3 (15m 34s):
That's Code Mary 10. Maximum value of $50 people offer ends December 31st, 2022. See terms etsy.com/terms. Always read the terms for gifts of all kinds. Etsy has it. Shop etsy.com

5 (15m 56s):
This season uncover story.

20 (15m 58s):
He's the most articulate, he's the most savvy, he's very cunning.

5 (16m 2s):
It seemed like the perfect story, the kind that only comes around once or twice in a journalist career. Like

20 (16m 8s):
He's very, very, it's why he destroys everybody

5 (16m 11s):
Out in the woods of Montana. One billionaire was creating his own world. Also he could hide something truly despicable. Have you heard of girls being like followed?

21 (16m 22s):
Is that something you've experienced?

5 (16m 24s):
At least that's what we were told.

22 (16m 27s):
You ask if I consider him a friend or if he's someone I trust. Both are absolutely yes, I would trust him with my life.

5 (16m 39s):
This season on cover story, what actually happened

23 (16m 42s):
Happens once in everybody's life and this guy is a master liar, master liar.

5 (16m 49s):
Cover story. Season two, seed money. Listen wherever you get your podcasts.

25 (16m 58s):
I didn't think I'd ever need to tell you this, but I would be a bad parent if I didn't. Soccer was invented by European ladies to keep them busy while their husbands did the cooking.

22 (17m 11s):
Why do you have to hate what you don't understand?

25 (17m 14s):
I don't hate you Bobby.

22 (17m 16s):
I meant soccer.

25 (17m 17s):
Oh, oh yeah, I hate soccer. Yes,

3 (17m 20s):
It's today explained World Cup edition. We're back with Roger Bennett of the Men in Blazers Media Network. And Roger, I wanna switch gears to talk about your adopted home, the United States. Are there any Americans in your book of soccer legends?

4 (17m 34s):
Oh, there are so many Americans in the book of soccer legends.

26 (17m 40s):
I am a real American. The rights of every man

4 (17m 47s):
Listeners who are hearing my accent, I am from Liverpool but do not be thrown by my accent. I adore America in the same way. Kenny Powers loves America. Yeah, I grew up in a time of economic turmoil for the city of Liverpool during the that area just worshiping all things American. You know, the John Hughes movies, the music of Run dmc, Tracy Chapman, the Love Boat, fantasy Island, the Chicago Bears, All of them made me wanna move here at the earliest opportunity, which I did.

4 (18m 28s):
And arriving here before the 1994 World Cup in Chicago. It was a horror to realize that the game I love really didn't have much of a footprint in my adopted nation. But watching the rise of football in the United States since then has been the joy of my life in many blazers. The growth of my media network, which focuses purely on football, we feel like we are a surfer on a very large wave and that wave is the American fan base moving towards men's and women's football. We are living in incredible days. And so the book is, is Littered with Incredible American Heroes, your Hams s

30 (19m 9s):
Ham, the Shut Go, she's got the record.

4 (19m 14s):
And also Brian Scurry, the African American goalkeeper who grew up in Minnesota.

29 (19m 20s):
The cross inside and scurry comes out. Good grab for Brian Scurry.

4 (19m 25s):
She was the only African American girl on almost every team she ever played. For. You see photographs of her on youth teams, always the only other African American face. And she propelled herself through force of will to play for the United States national team, became a world cut winner and the first African American woman to be in the National Soccer Hall of Fame through

31 (19m 48s):
All the teams that I was on living in a rural town in Minnesota, I was the only black player on every team. I just knew that I was, you know, on my way and it really didn't hinder me at all. I may be a different person looking different, have different preferences, but this is what makes a team great. All the differences,

4 (20m 10s):
These are the stories that that pat the bot that I hope our young audience really engage with, learn from and feel inspired by.

3 (20m 18s):
Are there any American men legends or do the women have the edge

4 (20m 23s):
Here? Our women are one of the greatest drivers of the growth of the game in the United States. Americans love the best. We love the best. The NFL is the best football league in the world. Take that Canadian football league, the major league baseball is the best baseball league in the world. And the confounding thing about football is we have a league that's flourishing here on the men's side, mls, but the everyone knows the best football in the world is played in Europe. So it's in, that was in the early nineties. Very confounding for Americans. Why is the best not here right now? And the women's game Americans are not only the best but the perpetual best.

15 (21m 4s):
19 91, 19 99, 20 15 and now 2019 for the fourth time the United States of America are crown champions of the world.

4 (21m 19s):
They have defined the field title I does not exist in other parts of the world. And they have grown the field, pioneered the field in this recent fight for equality. Really led the nations to reconsider how they've structured their football. And they've been incredible pathfinders. And we often joke that if our men's team was half as good as our women's team, they could be world beaters. And the lovely part of this moment in time though, as we approach a world cup on the men's side, there is hope. There is one though. We have a young team filled with talent soaked young kids who have all moved on mass to Europe to define their skills against the best for the best.

4 (22m 1s):
Of

19 (22m 1s):
The 48 players called up to the US men's national team over the last year. 38 are under 25 and 19 are under 21. While over a third are on the books of sides. In Europe's top five leagues,

4 (22m 13s):
Football is flourishing. As I said, I feel like a surfer on a massive wave of Americans falling in love with the game. I love, I'm almost like Kelly Slater, but a ball Kelly Slater. And it's all down really to the growth of football in the United States. And when this World Cup comes here in 2026, it will finish the job that 1994 was meant to do, which is to make America a football loving nation, a normal football loving nation and no longer like space to Captain Kirk football's final frontier.

3 (22m 46s):
I played soccer as a, as a kid and I remember, I remember coaches saying, you know it's really gonna take off. It's really gonna take off. This is what 1995, you're promising me that in 2026 the United States will finally develop a real lasting, profound interest in soccer.

4 (23m 6s):
I am vowing to you. No, I will be on your podcast wherever you are podcasting in 2026 or whatever form of technology we are doing in the metaverse. Will we still be podcasting? Who knows? But I will, I will respond to, you know, and you will say, oh my God, our cup over flow us with football. And that's because Americans also love overnight transformation. And the 94 World Cup was meant to turn us overnight to a football loving nation as if football was like a yo-yo or a pogo stick or a hula hoop. But it hasn't worked like that. Instead the growth has been slow and steady World Cup to World Cup and I'm almost grateful for that.

4 (23m 48s):
If football cannot be a fad, it has to be an authentic passion. And the growth, the slow and steady growth of of the sport here on the men's and the women's side has created deep roots and authentic fan culture, incredible passion propelled by the fact that number one, it's a perfect sport for the internet age. You know, baseball's golden era was because it was so perfect for the golden era of radio, the NFL race of prominence cuz it was the perfect televis sport. All those camera angles, TV timeouts, room for commercial, it's the internet that's connected America to football. You can become a informed fan of Liverpool from Los Angeles or Arsenal from Alabama as if you live a stone steer away from their team stadium game changing the amount of football that's now broadcast on, on channels who are fighting for the rights because they know it.

4 (24m 42s):
Bring a devoted young audience to their streamers, EA sports, fifa, the game which has inculcated a sense of the crazy world of football, the characters, the teams, the tactics to dorm rooms across the United States. All of these things have combined together while our women have become back to back world champions. Well, all men started to play for the greatest teams in Europe, and most perhaps significant in the long term over the next couple of decades while American sports investors have poured over to become owners of the some of the bigger Liverpool, Manchester, United, Arsal, and Chelsea, all now in American hands.

4 (25m 29s):
And so the future of the world sport is undoubtedly incredibly American. And so American sporting appetites have changed. And finally, finally, 2026, all of the commercial investment, all of the infrastructure, all of the height that delirious month that we will please God be able to share together that that now is what will put football finally over the top in the United States.

0 (26m 2s):
Today's

3 (26m 3s):
Show was produced by Hai Modi and Hema Shaw. It was edited by Amina Elsa and Matthew Colette. It was engineered by a theme Shapiro and it was fact checked by Laura Bullard. It's today explained World Cup Edition. I'm Noel King.