1 (4s):
You know what it is?

2 (8s):
5 billion ish people will watch the FIFA World Cup later this month. More than half of population Earth.

0 (15s):
Oh, what a strike.

2 (18s):
The pocket sized Gulf Nation of Cutter will host countries compete fiercely for the right to host the World Cup. And when Q won, it was a win for the soccer obsessed Arab world. But then came the allegations had Q cheated.

3 (33s):
You sought me out. Hooked me up for 2018. We will work behind the scenes to help you in 2022. Scratch my back, I'll scratch yours and let's come up with a deal.

2 (44s):
Or is this a case of a country unfairly accused of corruption when everyone involved is on some level pretty corrupt coming up on today? Explain Bob. It's today explained AB Nowell King. This is the first time ever that the World Cup is being held in an Arab country. And that is exciting. Full stop because as we're gonna hear, the evolution of soccer in the Arab world in some ways is the evolution of the Arab world from colonialism to revolution.

2 (1m 24s):
Abdullah Arian is a professor of Middle East history at Georgetown University in Qatar. It's like a franchise situation. He edited a book called Football in the Middle East State Society and the beautiful game Abdullah, Let's start with the good stuff. What's it like in Doha now? What is the city gotten

5 (1m 42s):
A lot of new buildings. New roads. A metro system that wasn't here just a few years ago.

6 (1m 48s):
It debuted in 2019. 110 cars will make up to 700,000 trips each day.

5 (1m 57s):
A new airport. So there's the physical transformation of the city.

6 (2m 1s):
The primary artery for cars will be transformed into a pedestrian only entertainment district for an estimated 1.2 million fans.

5 (2m 10s):
There's new parts of the city, entire neighborhood sections that have just sort of come up out of nowhere, just in the last kind of five or six years or so. You know, a lot of the, the massive billboards and the faces of all of the like world football's biggest stars, sprawling all over skyscrapers and things like that. And of course, everywhere you look, there's a new stadium that has popped

7 (2m 32s):
Up, A stadium designed to reflect the nomadic culture of the region.

8 (2m 36s):
The design of the stadium resembled the Bedwin Beata, which is the welcome sign back in the days

5 (2m 43s):
They built seven stadiums and eighth was refurbished. But all of the games, the 64 matches will be held within these eight stadiums.

0 (2m 56s):
Give

2 (2m 56s):
Me a sense of how important soccer is to the Middle East.

5 (2m 59s):
You know, the game is, is definitely the most popular sport anywhere in this region. You see entire cities kind of turn out for their, you know, major club matches. You can hear a pin drop whenever the national teams are playing, whether it's in Egypt or Algeria or Morocco, cuz everyone is sort of tuned in, whether in their radios, in the cafes, or even those who are attending the matches in stadiums. So there's a real passion in a sense that, you know, the, the national teams tend to be kind of really representative of the entire country in a way that you could even argue is more representative of the population and of the society than sometimes their own political leaders are.

5 (3m 52s):
The game was introduced really through the colonial experience. Most of the countries in the Middle East were at one point or another colonized by either Britain or France. And so it was during the course of that colonial experience that you see colonial officials introducing new educational curriculums, trying to modernize the population. Part of that included things like physical education that they believed was important to develop what they called properly obedient individuals

9 (4m 19s):
With the so of

5 (4m 20s):
The foot. And so this meant kind of introducing the game as kind of, you know, a very structured game with a set of rules.

9 (4m 28s):
Football control is essential to a skillful play

5 (4m 31s):
That required a certain kind of discipline, and that this was ultimately going to kind of educate them into a sort of western way of thinking and acting. And so this was the way that they tried to kind of groom and cultivate the elites within the societies that they conquered.

9 (4m 45s):
And through games like heading Tennis, keeping the boys interested in learning the right way of bringing the head into contact with

5 (4m 51s):
The ball. But of course the game, like most things when it comes to popular culture, has the, the tendency to take on a life of its own. And all of a sudden it becomes a source of empowerment for populations against colonial rule,

2 (5m 3s):
Against colonial rule, and then later against authoritarian rule. Right? So Abdullah, I lived in Cairo during the Arab Spring and I'd cover these massive protests and I knew to look out for the Ultras, the super fans of these big teams like o and Soic because they were an organized contingent. They seemed to be leading things. And for an American journalist, it was like, I cannot imagine, you know, Jets fans doing this.

5 (5m 30s):
We're talking about authoritarian context, especially in places like Egypt and Algeria and Syria and and elsewhere where you don't see the opportunity for people to simply found a political party or to simply go and, and kind of organize explicitly on a political basis.

11 (5m 51s):
The Cairo Darby is the biggest fixture in the Middle East football calendar. A bitter rivalry between Africa's two most successful teams, athlete and Zic.

5 (6m 4s):
And so what we tend to see more of is a kind of an alternative politics, which means people within society are likely to gather through things that might seem innocuous from the perspective of the regime.

12 (6m 15s):
This is politics, Zani is the government,

5 (6m 20s):
You know, well, you're not going to really prevent people from gathering in stadiums or coffee houses or, you know, hookah lounges where they're going to sit and watch matches and support their favorite clubs. And at the same time, that then becomes an opportunity by which people do ultimately naturally engage in political discussion,

13 (6m 40s):
Ideas, ethics strategies, plans didn't contradict with the idea of revolution. They are actually the same.

5 (6m 51s):
And so the idea that football fan groups were a part of the, kind of the collective of people who mobilized in these mass protests in places like, you know, Taha Square or even in Pearl Roundabout in Baja, and for instance, or in Yemen or in Syria or Libya or Algeria, these groups tended to already have that kind of sense of comradery having already fought off security forces when they were confronting the police in stadiums. So when there was this assault by the security forces in a number of these places, we end up seeing that it's actually the football ultra groups that tend to kind of stand firm in defense of the protestors into Square.

5 (7m 43s):
And I think that also then helped encourage the broader movements that were protesting and mobilizing in those days, be able to stand firm. And so we, we saw quite an effective resistance to a lot of the typical crackdowns that we saw on the part of the state.

2 (7m 59s):
All right, so you have this combination of beautiful game, extraordinary history of protest, but Abdullah, let me ask you now about the criticism of Qatar because investigative reporting suggests that many migrant workers died while building these stadiums and all of this other infrastructure that you guys have gotten. Cutters, Amir, its leader, says essentially the rest of the world is picking on us because we're a little Arab country. Do you think he has a point?

5 (8m 29s):
I happen to think that a lot of the questions that have been raised around the way that the Qatar World Cup has come together are incredibly valid in their serious questions that need to be taken on without sort of any kind of equivocating. But I don't think it's been helpful that so much of these critiques relied on very borderline orientalist kind of narratives of just creating an exceptional situation that la occupies without actually taking on the kind of the much deeper serious issues having to do with things like the global flow of labor and capital and all of the various parties that are implicated to just simply say, you know, this is just something that you know, is, is just a product of a certain culture or a certain kind of specific environment.

5 (9m 19s):
As opposed to kind of thinking about all of these different forces that have converged to create the, the kind of conditions that exist.

2 (9m 28s):
The conditions that exist include one that has made things very awkward for Qatar. On the face of it, there is no staggeringly obvious reason for QAR to have won the right to host the World Cup.

3 (9m 41s):
It's smaller in size than Connecticut. It needed to build a plethora of stadiums. It's built new railway network, Everything needed to be built from scratch

2 (9m 52s):
And no lesson authority than the US Department of Justice says that in the process of competing to host the World Cup Cutter did some bribing and FIFA was all too happy to accept it's coming up.

ClickUp (10m 14s):
Support for the show today comes from click up. What would you do if you had an extra day every week? I would try and jump in some water, not like a public pool, which DC does well, but a naturally occurring body of water that isn't totally polluted. If anyone knows where the good ones of those are at in the DC area, let me know. Click up wants to get you that extra day by saving you all the time that you spend clicking between different platforms and apps and docs and spreadsheets. So you know that they're saying might just be like a whole day every week that you spend wasting. And, and they can save you that time by putting all your stuff into one place for you. And your team listeners can use the code, explain to get 15% off. Click up massive unlimited plan for a year, meaning you can start saving time for under $5 a month. You can sign up today@clickup.com and use the code explained the offer ends soon.

2 (11m 27s):
Today explained World Cup Edition Dark. Tell me your full name and tell me what you do.

3 (11m 33s):
Yeah, I'm Tarrick Pander. I'm a global sports correspondent with the New York Times. A lot of that actually features the sort of byways and highways and the behind the scenes ways of, of the world of sport, notably football.

2 (11m 48s):
What is FIFA exactly?

3 (11m 50s):
FIFA is essentially the global governing body for the world's most popular sport. It is based in, in Zurich and it is composed of 211 member nations. In a sense, it has more members than the United Nations

16 (12m 7s):
Today. Football is a global game at fifa. It's our responsibility to develop the game for future generations and to protect its integrity, but that also means never forgetting the principles on which we were founded.

3 (12m 23s):
FIFA hosts the World Cup every four years and about seven or eight years before a tournament begins, there is a for hosting this because there is nothing bigger in the world, perhaps say the Olympic Games than, than than the football World Cup. And FIFA starts a, a bidding competition, which lasts between 18 months and two years typically for each World Cup. And now is voted on by a representative of each of its 211 members at the Congress. For Qatar, this wasn't the case. This was done by a group called the FIFA Executive Committee, a high powered band of, of men, and they were all men.

2 (13m 10s):
Say, I'm a country I would really like to host the World Cup and I wanna do everything above board. What do I typically do? How do I typically approach fifa?

3 (13m 21s):
You typically won't get the World Cup if you try and do everything above board. That's what,

2 (13m 28s):
Unfortunately. Okay, let's phrase that slightly differently. What do countries that really wanna host the World Cup typically do with the understanding that it can't be done above board?

3 (13m 43s):
Right. So on the face of it, there is a, a bid committee that is formed.

17 (13m 50s):
We are just moments away from the big decision in Switzerland where football's ruling body will announce who will host the 2022 FIFA World Cup.

3 (14m 1s):
Lots of nice video packages, celebrity endorsements, trips to your country for the FIFA executive class.

17 (14m 13s):
What will it mean to the region if the world's greatest sporting event comes to the Middle East for the very first time it happened in

3 (14m 20s):
South Africa, You are really trying to curry favor with this group of important people that they may bestow their votes upon you. So you create a a a bid. It

18 (14m 31s):
Is a challenge, it's always a challenge to, to host a World Cup, but I think that we're definitely to that challenge.

3 (14m 38s):
And towards the end, there will be a bid book, which is a multi, multi page book, which will feature all the guarantees that FIFA requires from security to hotel accommodation, to what type of stadiums you have, transport, et cetera. And you would say, our offering is better than everyone else's, and guess what, we can also generate billions of dollars in revenue for you. And here's how. Unfortunately, I don't think most of the voters will ever read these books because they, they, they in the past haven't. It's, it's other things that have tended to sway their votes. As I said previously, it was a small group of people you had to curry favor with.

3 (15m 21s):
So in a sense it was finding out what the quirks and peccadillos of each particular voter might be and how you might be able to influence them in, in many cases, that has turned out to be cold hard cash.

2 (15m 36s):
Cash is a good quirk and it's a good peccadillo. It's, it's 2022. So the lobbying started by your math somewhere around 2014, 2015. Well,

3 (15m 48s):
In this case it was a very strange process.

2 (15m 51s):
Oh, what happened?

3 (15m 52s):
Because Qatar actually started lobbying for the World Cup in, I believe, 2009 because fifa, in its wisdom at the time, decided to offer two world Cups in the same vote. It

19 (16m 11s):
Is an honor and a privilege to welcome you all to Zurich for the 2018 and the 2022 FIFA World Cup host announcement.

3 (16m 23s):
So the 2018 World Cup that went to Russia, the, and the 2022 World Cup,

20 (16m 29s):
The winner to organize the 2 22 FIFA is Qatar

3 (16m 40s):
That created conditions right, for even more skullduggery than have been the norm before. It allowed different nations to collude with each other, to create behind the scenes deals. If you sort me out, hook me up for, for, for 2018. We will work behind the scenes to help you in 2022. Scratch my back, I'll scratch yours, and let's come up with a deal. All of this on the face of it, based on FIFA's rules and regulations at a time in, yes, they had rules and regulations, ethics rules flew in the face of those, but all of this was, was taking place.

2 (17m 23s):
And so what do we know ultimately about why Qatar was chosen?

3 (17m 29s):
Its beard was the most extravagant at the time. So it spent publicly, you know, almost 200 million on, on, on bidding far more than everyone else. That meant sponsoring conventions in, in Africa where voters were hiring ambassadors like Zi Sudan, the, the France soccer legend among others for huge fees. So Qatar on that level was very visible.

19 (17m 57s):
Thank you for believing in expanding the game. Thank you for giving Qatar a chance and we will not let you down. You'll be proud of us, you'll be proud of the Middle East, and I promise you this,

3 (18m 15s):
Then it gets a little bit darker. I guess what prompted these guys to choose Qatar, which among the bidders, the United States of America, Australia, Korea, and Japan for 2022, among that group, it was clearly the most unsuitable offer in, in a sense, from an infrastructure point of view, it needed to pretty much rebuild or build an entire country to host this tournament. Let's not forget it's smaller in size and Kinetica smaller than any previous World Cup host. It needed to build a plethora of stadiums. It it's built new railway network, roads, hotels, everything needed to be built from scratch.

3 (19m 0s):
So it, it's very, very difficult to understand, you know, in the sense of reality in a way why, why these guys would choose Qatar. And then the only kind of open question is what persuaded them to do it. And since then there has been several investigations, media reports, you name it, about corruption within fifa, the Department of Justice in the us part of a broader investigation into soccer, corruption in an indictment said three members and named them. These three South Americans had taken money to vote for Qatar.

3 (19m 41s):
It doesn't say though that it was a Qataris that paid for this and that creates this continuing gray area, this miasma around what exactly happened.

2 (19m 53s):
What has Qatar said about this indictment? Have they just tried to stay out of it?

3 (19m 58s):
Qatar has pretty much held a solid line from the day in on December the second, 2010, when the former FIFA president opened the envelope to reveal it would host the World Cup. That it played by the rules and that it has absolutely nothing to, to feel guilty about, nothing to apologize for. And that a lot of the attacks are in essence anti-Arab in some way, or sour grapes from those who lost.

2 (20m 33s):
Did FIFA make any changes after that indictment, after any of this mess? Has FIFA changed at all?

3 (20m 39s):
Well, FIFA was forced to ch I mean, the scandal, it's hard to over play. How, how big and what a shocking moment it was

21 (20m 48s):
Even by FIFA standards. These are extraordinary developments at the behest of the US Attorney General. Seven senior FIFA officials arrested at the crack of dawn concerning allegations of fraud, racketeering, and money laundering

3 (21m 3s):
That threatened FIFA's very existence. It was some of their most senior, senior officials that were involved in this. They had to change. A reform committee was organized. The the top leadership over the next months was removed, decapitated and replaced with new people. The reforms have meant, for example, the World Cup is now chosen by the entire membership, 211 national soccer federations and not 24 people behind closed doors.

3 (21m 43s):
The votes are made public, which they were not before. But what I would say is culturally very little has changed that behind closed door antics still exists. These highly paid cynic cures for people who support the hierarchy are still well in place. And this is very much in part of how FIFA has always been run.

2 (22m 8s):
Qatar's Amir, its leader, says his country is being unfairly criticized, unfairly singled out. Is there anything that suggests he might have a point?

3 (22m 18s):
I guess to have that opinion at best is naive because if you are going to want to host this and you are hosting this, that level of scrutiny is to be expected, particularly given the circumstances around Qatar. Its bid and then its decade long buildup to staging the event. The amount of building work, the cost is unprecedented. Qatar would say, well that's not just for the World Cup. We would build this stuff anyway. But really, you know, it's a tiny place. It has to build eight stadiums in a race against time and has involved the importation of some of the poorest people in the world to act as migrant labors.

3 (23m 3s):
Then you have the, the, the issues around other human rights. Being gay is a criminal offense in Qatar. So a lot of this scrutiny surely is to be expected.

2 (23m 25s):
Next Friday. On today Explained World Cup Edition, we're gonna interview a migrant worker from Kenya who was employed in Qatar, and I promise you will not wanna miss that one. Today's show edited by Amina Elad, produced by Halima Shaw, Engineered by a theme Shapiro Fact, checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Noel King and it's today

0 (23m 45s):
Explained.