0 (1s):
In the spring of 2021, a polling firm called around 30,000 Americans to get their thoughts on celebrity presidents. The favorite Dwayne, the rock Johnson,

1 (13s):
What the rock is

2 (16s):
Nearly half of Americans would approve. Johnson is precedent. According to a new survey,

0 (21s):
The rock took this news humbling, and

3 (23s):
This is what the people want. I will do.

0 (26s):
He became a household name along with stone cold. Steve Austin, John Siena, Andre, the giant as a professional wrestler and the guy who got the mayor, Vince McMahon over 40 years, world wrestling, entertainment, chairman and CEO built a billion dollar company on male aggression and sparkly outfits. Then last month, the wall street journal reported that McMahon paid millions of dollars in hush money to multiple women to cover up allegations of assault. And infidelity ahead on today explained his Vince McMahon finally pinned

2 (59s):
So far for the programs and it comes from are you sleeping once again? Thank you. Are you sleeping for so much support, meet elite athlete, Lauren Gibbs in the latest episode of are you sleeping? She has long struggled with sleep and shares. The critical role rest has played in her bobsledding career. I love a good bobsledding story. Listen to, are you sleeping wherever you listen to your podcasts or else? No, I'm just kidding. They would never want me to say that or else

0 (1m 37s):
It's today explained I'm new will king. And once upon a time, the early 1990s, I was a rabid fan of world wrestling entertainment. I loved a clothesline. I loved to pile driver. I loved rowdy Roddy, Piper, Avery Smith was also a fan. Abe is a journalist and author of the forthcoming book, ringmaster Vince McMahon and the unmaking of America. Abe, who is Vince McMahon.

5 (2m 1s):
Vince McMahon is the long time owner and the overlord of world wrestling entertainment or what was once known as that. Now it's just WWE

1 (2m 12s):
You and God versus me, FinTech, Trinity McMahon and the product of my semen. It's my son's.

5 (2m 22s):
The short version is he's the guy who runs more wrestling and has run more wrestling in America than anyone else.

1 (2m 30s):
I've got an insatiable appetite for life and a lot more. Lord

5 (2m 37s):
WWE is a massive corporation. It's a billion dollar corporation that is not just about wrestling. It's a multimedia empire. They create content for a wide array of mediums and audiences.

1 (2m 50s):
Welcome to McMahon's million dollar man.

5 (2m 58s):
Vince McMahon is a very powerful man. And that's often underestimated because wrestling isn't taken seriously.

0 (3m 5s):
When did Vince McMahon become the chairman and CEO of WWE?

5 (3m 10s):
You know, the titles sort of changed somewhat arbitrarily, but it's almost like the titles don't matter nearly as much as the fact that just everyone knows Vince is in control. And he has been since 82, 83, when he started taking over from his father specifically, the thing he spends his most time on is creative. The, the actual stuff that gets performed now, a lot of CEO's are majority shareholders, whatever would sort of stay out of the specifics. Bob shape pack at Disney. Doesn't get too in the weeds with approving every single line and every single Marvel movie script. But that's what Vince does with his own product.

6 (3m 50s):
The hype leading up to the match is very carefully choreographed. Vince McMahon literally looks upon that hype the same way the producer of dynasty or Dallas looks at his screenplay.

5 (4m 0s):
He retains an enormous amount of micromanaged control over what goes on in his programming. He's the promoter. That's the term from wrestling is promoter. The person who owns the promotion, the, the organization where the wrestling happens and that's unambiguously been Vince since the early eighties

7 (4m 19s):
And the rustling business. It's a two or more individuals going out to the ring, rustling, having a little bit of applause or what have you from the audience in it's time to go home until the next match. That's not really what we do. We're in the sports entertainment business. And there is a huge philosophical difference.

0 (4m 38s):
I wonder if this was a succession type situation, was it always guaranteed that like this was going to be the family business?

5 (4m 47s):
Well, it was not guaranteed that Vince was going to inherit the family business for sure. Cause he didn't. He had to buy it from his father.

7 (4m 56s):
My dad was talking about selling out and that frightened me. So I knew there was just some way I had to get my hands on this company.

5 (5m 5s):
He did a series of what are called balloon payments over the course of four quarters between 82 and 83, June 82 to June 83, he had to pay about a million dollars to his father and his father co owners of what was then the Capitol wrestling corporation. Vince Sr had a lot of difficulties with Vince junior, for lack of a better term. They had a lot of differences, both in personality and business approach. And Vince always says,

7 (5m 35s):
I knew my dad would really sold me the business. Had he known what I was going to do?

0 (5m 39s):
Ah, ha what was he going to do? What was the big change?

5 (5m 45s):
Vince his plan. And he executed, it was to take over wrestling,

8 (5m 50s):
Vince McMahon, working with his wife, Linda begins building a national and international brand for wrestling in the process. He will nearly decimate the existing wrestling establishment in a controversial, offensive or worthy of a military commander.

5 (6m 3s):
At the time wrestling was a regional art form. You would go to wrestling in your hometown and the wrestling there would be run by a promoter who only operated in that region. And Vince's goal was to sort of smash up the smoke-filled room of old wrestling and take over. Now, there was going to be an earthquake in wrestling already was anyway with the advent of cable television. So something would have happened to break up the territory system anyway, but the fact is Vince was the one who was able to capitalize on it. Vince was the one who had a vision of taking this existing system and replacing it with his own.

5 (6m 51s):
And for the most part, he did, it took a while to get to a near monopoly status. And in 2001, he had no more major competitors. His vision came true. I should say there are a lot of factors in which he got lucky. There were so many ways in which this could have not happened, but you read his story and it's just, he's lived this charmed life in many ways where like any conquistador, he benefited from internal divisions among his rivals from random happenstance.

5 (7m 36s):
The first WrestleMania in 1985 was a big risk.

9 (7m 41s):
What got the stare of the champion? I got the challenger, the irresistible force, speedy vehicle with an object. Look at the size of the giant.

5 (7m 51s):
It almost did not become the hit that it was, but these little things kept happening that were just lucky.

0 (7m 58s):
Where did women fit in all of this masculinity,

10 (8m 2s):
Every woman in professional wrestling once my belt, but I want it to, and I had to fight inch branch to get this. And I'm not about to lay down on my back and let someone cover me.

8 (8m 10s):
I thank you very much.

5 (8m 15s):
Oh boy, that's me taking a big sigh and puff with my vape as a lady, because let me tell you it was not great. It was really hard to be a woman in wrestling today. It's a little easier

4 (8m 30s):
To see

11 (8m 31s):
Women fighting.

5 (8m 35s):
WWE has really made strides in recent years to have a robust women's division, but that is a very recent development. All things considered in the eighties. There was this brief moment where it looked like women's wrestling might, as they say in wrestling, get over, be successful in America. There was rest of the name, Wendy Richter Wendi with an I who was very talented and became the women's champion of the world. Wrestling Federation.

10 (9m 2s):
A lot of things have changed since then. I won the championship belt, Cindy loppers, my manager, and I've learned a lesson, a good lesson

5 (9m 8s):
And long story short Vince decided to execute. What is vulgarly known in wrestling as a screw job? She had a choreographed end to the match that was planned. And Vince changed the plan without telling her

9 (9m 29s):
Spider going on a small package, nicely executed. Whoa, was that close? What was that?

5 (9m 39s):
None of these things are legitimate athletic competitions, but sometimes you get surprised when a promoter decides to screw. You

9 (9m 47s):
Appears that the referee is beta three counts. It is going on.

5 (9m 56s):
It doesn't happen very often, but Wendy Richter was the victim of a screw job. She lost the belt.

9 (10m 1s):
Why did he scooped her up in the back? However, I take this batches over

5 (10m 9s):
And she walked out and never came back. And that's indicative of what was going on then, which was there was this sprout of women's wrestling in America. And then Vince kind of just stamped it into the ground. You then have like 20 years of a real desert for women's wrestling in America because Vince was kind of the only game in town and Vince was not interested in women's wrestling. So you ended up with this situation where there were very few women working for the WWF, the ones who are such as Wendy Richter are very disgruntled. And that's just sort of the beginning because after that you get this real Madonna whore complex.

5 (10m 49s):
If you'll forgive the phrase where you have the only women that are available, tend to be quote unquote managers, just sort of people who are supposed to be there and kind of participate in the action, but are not wrestlers. They just accompany the wrestlers. And you would have ones that were like missile Elizabeth, who I'm sure you'll recall the macho man, Randy Savage, his wife,

1 (11m 8s):
Elizabeth, looking through the video of scope right there. Yes. Looking through the video scope and see how proud you are to be the manager of the microphone. Man. I'm proud to be the manager of the macho request. You've told me I can't talk to her. Randy told you that from

5 (11m 24s):
Miss Elizabeth was the Madonna. She's supposed to be this perfect virtuous woman who would never do anything bad enough, nothing nasty or untoward. And then on the other end, you have like the sensational Sherry, who is this supposed to be? This wicked temptress.

13 (11m 39s):
I am here for a reason. And that is to find a man that can fulfill all of mine.

5 (11m 46s):
It's this very boiler plate vision of what it means to be a woman. And it was really dominant when I started watching in the late nineties. Oh my God. The misogyny was horrific. And anyone will tell you that

14 (12m 1s):
Stacy Thursday on a special Thanksgiving edition of SmackDown, you challenged Trish Stratus to a gravy bowl match and you lost. So why do you think tonight you can beat Trish Stratus for the women's title in a bra and panties match.

16 (12m 18s):
Michael, when I'm in my bra and panties, I always come out on top.

5 (12m 25s):
It was just, these women were put up there to be humiliated. And many of them were very upset with it, but what are you going to do? There's there's so little you can do to fight Vince McMahon in the wrestling world. He's extremely powerful. So there's been some positive developments as of late, but for a very long time, it was a real that's. I'm getting into all the things that happened behind the scenes. There are plenty of terrible stories of female wrestlers and referees, and just other women involved in wrestling being abused or harassed or assaulted I'm even raped behind the scenes by people involved in wrestling, including Vince.

5 (13m 7s):
Vince has been accused of a lot of things that are terrible for women

0 (13m 18s):
Coming up after years. Some of those terrible things are coming to light

2 (13m 32s):
Support for the program. As you heard earlier, comes from a podcast called, are you sleeping to be quite honest this morning when I was like doing my whole slowly waking up thing, I could just hear this. Like what sounded like in the distance to someone like clipping their toenails. But it was bigger than that because I could hear it from my bedroom. And it was almost like God was, was clipping her toenails outside or something. You know, I could not figure out what it was. And it was preventing me from sleeping and it was annoying. And I wondered if it was something sort of liminal. I don't know that I wasn't hearing. Was it a hallucination? I have no idea. The point of the story is all sorts of things. Get in the way of our sleep.

2 (14m 13s):
But our sleep is super important on a future episode of, are you sleeping? You'll meet a limpic bobsledder Lauren Gibbs. She's had some trouble sleeping and it's super important for her because hello athlete, Olympic athlete, no less check out. Are you sleeping? Subscribe wherever you get your podcasts. Are you sleeping? Listen,

7 (14m 36s):
I enjoy destroying lives

0 (14m 40s):
Today. Explained we're back with Abe. Reesman Abe is a journalist and author of the forthcoming book, ringmaster Vince McMahon and the unmaking of America. So Abe as you've described it, McMann this world of hyper-masculinity women get almost no respect, but he's playing a character or so millions of people assume. And then you start looking into an allegation from 1984. What happened?

5 (15m 8s):
Rita Chatterton became the first female referee and the WWF in 1984, referees have a weird job in wrestling because it's not actually a legitimate athletic competition. So what's the referee doing there? Well, the referee is part of the story.

17 (15m 26s):
No, wait a minute. This was a sucker job. The whole way she's got Teddy way. Don't play Teddy long. Ladies and gentlemen, look at that space. First goes below

5 (15m 40s):
The referee is the person who slapped the map three times for a three count when somebody pins or accepts the submission. When somebody is in a submission, hold, you know, all of this stuff, that's sort of key to the illusion of the match and Rita trained to be a referee. So Rita started doing shows for the WWF that were assigned to her by the New York state athletic commission. And she pretty quickly gets a big bump up to being a referee at like a match at Madison square garden. And the reason was at the time Vince was executing this storyline in the WWF that was extensively pro women's live

18 (16m 23s):
Lanny Ky. You better watch out because these are powerful words because this is a powerful woman and I'm a powerful manager. Now

5 (16m 29s):
You'll recall this where you have Cindy lopper getting involved as a manager for Wendy Richter,

17 (16m 35s):
Cyndi Lauper telling me about this lady, dear immediate lamp.

18 (16m 39s):
He's the camp, she's new ideas, new preface and new meaning. And he's going to give a job to a woman directly, like never before

5 (16m 51s):
Rita gets this call from Vince McMahon in 1984 saying, Hey, we want you to do a bunch of stuff for us because that's what they were highlighting was, you know, were, they wouldn't have used the word progressive, but you know, we're a company that cares about women and long story short Rita worked as a referee for the WWF for a couple of years. And then in 1986, she went to a TV taping, a series of matches in Poughkeepsie, New York to go get an audience with Vince, not even to referee, but to get an audience with Vince and ask, she could get more work.

19 (17m 28s):
Vince, his driver got out and opened the door and I thought Vince was going to get out. But instead Vincent Tamino Rita, come in here. He says, we'll just sit and talk here. I didn't think much of it. I got in the limo with him. Vince started talking about magazines. Next thing I know Vince McMahon is unzipping his pants.

5 (17m 43s):
And according to her that night, Vince raped her in his limo.

19 (17m 50s):
When I couldn't complete his desires, he got really angry. Started ripping off my jeans, pulled me on top of him and told me again. If I wanted to have a million dollar a year contract, I had to satisfy him. And if I didn't satisfy him, I was blackballed. That was it. I was done

5 (18m 14s):
Afterward. According to Rita, she contacted a lawyer. The lawyer told her because she had showered and not called the cops immediately. It was going to be a really hard case because Vince was very powerful and wealthy and she wasn't. So she didn't say anything. And then shortly after her father died, she gets a call from Geraldo Rivera, his team, and sure enough, she appears on. Now it can be told. And the Geraldo Rivera show to lodge this accusation.

19 (18m 43s):
The very first time I met Vince, I was told that if I had any sexual relationships with anyone in the Federation I was done, my career was done. When Vince was said and done, Vince looked at me and said, do you remember what I told you about having sexual relationships with anyone? Well, you just did. And he just sat back and had this big smile and this big grin and just started laughing at me.

5 (19m 7s):
What's odd is the story just sort of went away. It was something that people in wrestling sometimes knew about, but wrestling forgets its history very easily, readily. And often

0 (19m 20s):
At the time did Vince McMahon have to answer?

5 (19m 23s):
He did any answered by suing her and her Aldo and rolled his producer. And that scared her into silence. To a certain extent. It was a lawsuit that scared her and she basically disappeared for 30 years. And that was about as far as it got for a long time. One of the reasons Vince was able to beat these accusations for the most part, or at least have them kind of roll off his back was especially as time went on, Vince started to portray himself as a heel by the late nineties. He's appearing as the character, Mr. McMahon,

17 (19m 59s):
What else what's going to happen here? What is this?

5 (20m 8s):
And Mr. Root man's whole deal is that he's the ultimate heel. He's just a terrible person. Who'll do nothing, will stop at nothing in his pursuit of power and victory. And that really works for Vince.

0 (20m 22s):
And then in June of this year, the wall street journal reports a big story about McMahon and it's kind of a bombshell

5 (20m 28s):
Paralegal. Who'd worked for the WWE. A friend of hers reached out to the WWE board and said, my friend had this sexual relationship with Vince and he paid her to shut up about it out of his own money. I should say, according to the, this was not the only hush money payment. The idea is there may be a long history of women being paid off not to talk. And we don't know what those situations are. Women are paid off not to talk for a wide array of reasons in this country.

0 (21m 6s):
What has happened to Vince McMahon? Is he still in charge at WWE?

5 (21m 11s):
It's unclear right now, this is a classic wrestling situation where the reality is so hard to parse because there's so many layers of ambiguity. When the wall street journal allegations came out, the announcement was Vincent man will be stepping back, not stepping down, but stepping back as chairman and CEO and his daughter, Stephanie was made the quote-unquote interim chairman and CEO interim between what, between Vince coming back, who knows, and Vince, even in the official announcement about how he's stepping back as chairman and CEO, they're like they said, he'll retain control over creative. And like I said, creative is basically what he spent most of his time on anyway.

5 (21m 55s):
So it's unclear how much power he actually gave up. And more importantly, more importantly than that, he appeared. So the show starts right, and no one knows what's going to happen. But what happens is the show starts and his music hits lyrics are no chance. That's what you've got up against the machine too strong. He comes out, the music happens. He walks into the entrance and I can't do it cause audio, but he throws his arms why? And he has a big smile on his face. And he marches down the ramp to the ring with his little shrub that he does.

5 (22m 38s):
And he gets in the ring and he proceeds to give this weird little speech.

1 (22m 43s):
It is a privilege as always you stand before you here tonight, that WWE universe, there are 70 around you, or the four words we just saw. And I, what we call the WWE signature, those four words are then now forever. And the most important word is together.

5 (23m 21s):
And that was it. And we were, everyone was watching goes, what was that? But that's the magic of wrestling is you spend time watching it and you go, what the hell was that? And you spend time going. Was that real? Was it fake? What does it mean to be real or fake? And the fact is Vince has figured out how to use the Mr. McMahon persona to let all of this stuff slide off of him. He came out as McMahon, did that speech. And guess what ratings went through the roof. He appeared again on Monday night, raw, a few days later ratings were better than they'd been in years. People are showing up to watch this. And it doesn't matter whether you like him or not. It just matters that you're watching and giving him the ratings and viewership Mr.

5 (24m 6s):
McMahon, the character, which of course has become kind of his persona. Even in quote unquote non-fictional scenarios is an armor that is virtue proof. You can't throw virtue his way and expect it to Pierce the armor. And it's unclear if anything compares to the armor that's what's happening right now is we're in this weird stage where yes, it could be. The WWE board concludes its investigation and says, look, Vince did something wrong. And we want no part of him, but he's gotten out of tougher scrapes than this is all I'm saying.

0 (24m 42s):
Today's show was produced by Hadi Milwaukee. Also a long time wrestling fan. It was fact-checked by Laura Bullard. It was edited by Matthew Collette who does not like wrestling. And it was engineered by a female Shapiro I'm Noel king it's today explained

‎Are You Sleeping? (25m 10s):
Support for the program today has come from, are you sleeping in order to perform at our best? We need to be well rested, but Olympic bobsledder. Lauren gives spends months on the road, competing in different countries, pushing her body and mind to the limit for elite athletes like her winding down and getting good sleep can be a real battle. On the latest episode. Lauren explains why sleep can make the difference between a big win and a crushing defeat and a sleep expert who consults with top athletes gives hosts Kate Berlanti tips. We can all use to find sleep and be ready for life's challenges. Are you sleeping wherever you listen?