0 (1s):
Support for the shutter that comes from click up. According to whom we lose an average of three hours every day, switching between all of our work apps, but you can get them back with click up a flexible platform that brings all of your essential tools into one place where you can prioritize tasks, collaborate on docs and chat with your team and track goals. It's why companies like Uber and web flow use click up as their mission control center. Replacing every other app they were using before click up even guarantees to help you save one day a week and get more done. It's completely customizable and it's free forever. So try click up today@clickup.com slash today. Explain Support for the show today comes from Stripe.

0 (49s):
Most siblings fight about, I dunno, just about anything but brothers Patrick and John put aside their sibling tussles. And instead decided to start a business called Stripe. Stripe is a technology company that helps businesses place their economic infrastructure online. They started the company in order to ease the stress of those looking to start a new business or to expand an existing one. Partnering with Stripe allows companies to focus on other projects. As the tech company handles more than 250 million API requests per day. And I don't know a whole lot about API requests, but I know that's a lot of them Stripe doesn't want to work for your business.

0 (1m 32s):
They want to support you in building the business you desire. So visit stripe.com. That is S T R I P e.com to get started today, An American, an Englishman, and an Australian walk onto a submarine. I forgot how the joke goes, but Francis pissed

2 (2m 8s):
Last week, the United States, United Kingdom and Australia announced a new trilateral partnership. August

3 (2m 14s):
Sounds strange and all these acronyms, this

2 (2m 16s):
Is a good one. The agreement calls for Australia to buy a nuclear submarine, fleet Australia then scrapped an existing 2016 deal to buy diesel powered subs from France. This,

4 (2m 28s):
This unilateral brutal and predictable decision. If it looks a lot like what Mr. Trump used to do his image type,

5 (2m 35s):
Does your government feel betrayed by the United States?

6 (2m 39s):
We have, we have this feeling where it's, it's disappointing. It's disappointing.

0 (2m 47s):
We can try and explain bruised egos and big defense deals on the show today. But instead we figured we'd try and get to the heart of the matter. And that's China. The reason president Biden and Boris Johnson are submarine deals with Australia is to counter China. So it felt like a good time to ask what's up in China. And it turns out a lot

7 (3m 9s):
Xi Jinping is overseeing this sprawling rectification campaign that is targeting red healing services, tech companies, insurance companies, education, and even the amount of time that kids can play video games. And what we're seeing in this great rectification is really the redrawing of the boundaries of business and society in China today.

0 (3m 33s):
Lily quo is the China bureau chief for the Washington post based in Taipei. We asked her what exactly she meant by rectification campaign.

7 (3m 41s):
So, I mean, some people are, I have called this a kind of second cultural revolution. So it's a correction of all the ills of society. So I could think rectification has the connotation of moral principles to it. So what, what are the correct values that should be promoted in Chinese society? What are the correct values that businesses should be operating by? So the rectification that we're seeing is, is an effort to kind of draw those principles and have the party determined. You know, what those values are.

0 (4m 12s):
Give us an idea, Lilly of what exactly is being changed here. What's going on.

7 (4m 16s):
You can think of this in sort of three categories. The first is that we have a reigning in of the private sector, mainly the tech sector in China. Then you have new restrictions and controls over the cultural sector. So this is entertainment celebrities. And then lastly, you also have changes in the education system and the push of certain values in society directed at young people.

0 (4m 41s):
Hmm. Okay, well, let's start with education. What's going on there

8 (4m 46s):
Invested in chooses to help their children boost their results in hyper competitive exams, known as gal Cal that they need to pass to get into universities.

7 (4m 54s):
So the education system in China is incredibly competitive and incredibly intense, and all parents put their kids into hours and hours of these extra classes. They authorities have banned for-profit private tutoring and overnight basically eviscerated this multi-billion dollar industry. And so the thinking on the part of the Chinese authorities is that this for-profit industry has upset the ideals of education. And by banning this, then they are helping level the playing field for parents and families who can't really afford these classes. And also the ideas that you take some of the pressure off of the students and the kids.

7 (5m 36s):
Hmm.

0 (5m 36s):
So it's an incredibly competitive education system. And by banning part of that system, you're going to make it more fair for people is that right?

7 (5m 47s):
I've asked people, you know, parents that I know in China, what they think of this and people say, you know, it's the right spirit and it, and it makes sense. And, and you know, this industry really is out of control and the pressure is too much. But one teacher that we talked to, she was describing how at her school, it's all these teachers are out of work. And, you know, just, it seems to be a counterproductive policy because there's still as much competition to get into the best universities in China. And these students still need this tutoring and teachers also need the extra money from tutoring. And she made this point that, you know, if the point is really educational quality, then why didn't the government make universities or all school fees free.

0 (6m 29s):
So that sounds like a pretty big cultural shift in terms of education. But, but it sounds like there's a lot more cultural shifts of foot here.

7 (6m 37s):
Yes. So another crackdown that we're seeing is on what authorities have called the chaotic celebrity culture in China,

0 (6m 46s):
Chaotic celebrity culture.

7 (6m 48s):
So you have certain celebrities that have basically been wiped from the internet. You have new rules about what content can be promoted online and what kind of content should be in movies and TV shows. And the other big focus of this campaign is these things called fan clubs. So China has these really extreme fan clubs where especially young people are in these groups where they support a certain celebrity and they donate money to them. They'll fight members of other fan clubs for them. They feel

0 (7m 18s):
Clubs are fighting.

7 (7m 18s):
Yeah. The fan clubs fight. They're, they're really intense. One example that I think is seen as possibly a tipping point for this fan club culture is that this Canadian Chinese pop star named Chris Wu in early

9 (7m 32s):
Against police and Beijing detained Chris Wu, a dual Chinese Canadian citizen on suspicion of

7 (7m 38s):
Rape. And his fans went crazy and they supposedly were hatching these plans to break him out of prison. And so this was seen as, you know, going too far cause they weren't going to go against the government and try to get them out of prison.

0 (7m 51s):
Right? Why do Xi Jinping and the Chinese government feel like they need to crack down on fandom? It seems like a low price.

7 (7m 57s):
Some people say that because China is a place where you can't discuss politics. There's not a lot of sensitive issues that you can really debate openly. And celebrities is one of those things that you can really go at it with people and getting these big fights with people. And so that this is sort of an outlet for people. Hmm. So one interesting question is, you know, what happens if you shut that off for people, but the reason why this is being targeted, I think one has to do with the values, this idea that celebrities are the ones in control of the value system in China and the party wants to have that control. And so they want to, they want to be able to determine what is okay in popular culture. And this isn't just about fandom.

7 (8m 39s):
It's also about how long kids can play video games online. So now there are limits on the time that kids can play. The practice also extends to what images kids should be seeing in movies and online and TV. And one of those images that the government has deemed unacceptable is something called Paul,

0 (9m 4s):
Which in your article, like you say, roughly translates to like sissy men. Is

7 (9m 10s):
That right? Yeah. So this is, so this is a derogatory term in China also, and it refers to feminine men or sissy men is, is the most common translation.

0 (9m 21s):
What are they actually trying to crack down on here? But they're trying

7 (9m 24s):
To crack down on, is this trend in Chinese pop culture, where you have young men who are kind of known for their dodginess looks, they might wear jewelry or makeup. And, you know, they're just very attractive and very pretty.

0 (9m 38s):
Hmm. What's wrong with that? That sounds nice. Pretty men. What's not to like,

7 (9m 43s):
Yeah. I think they're trying to promote a very narrow idea of what it means to be a man in China. And they have ideas of masculinity that are culturally conservative and they want to present a certain picture of China as strong. And they think that present a strong China, you can't have men who are so-called sissy men

0 (10m 26s):
That feels like it'd be really hard to enforce.

7 (10m 30s):
Yeah. So the way that they are enforcing that is by telling broadcasters and content providers not to promote these kinds of images and not to promote content. That includes men like this

0 (10m 43s):
One thing that's certainly going to be a lot easier for the Chinese government to control is the economy, how is shooting thing tweaking the Chinese economy?

7 (10m 52s):
So the main thing that's happening in the economy is that over the last 12 months, the private sector, the tech sector has really been reigned in. And this is under the name of cracking down on what the government has called the disorderly expansion of capital.

11 (11m 9s):
It means we can need some of the country's biggest tycoons in recent months, Beijing has targeted some of China's most successful companies, imposing harsh regulations and fines on ride hailing company D D and tech giants, Alibaba and 10.

7 (11m 23s):
And so with these tech companies, the idea isn't to destroy them or to, you know, to wipe them out, urge for them to not play a big role in the economy, but rather to kind of harness them and have them serve the state and, you know, serve the parties agenda.

0 (11m 39s):
It's interesting to hear that thinking about the United States where there's all this talk about reigning in big tech, is this like a version of that in China?

7 (11m 48s):
This is a version of that because one of the questions is what are they doing with all of this data that they amass and how are they using that? The other thing is that one of the reasons that tech companies have been so successful in China is that there's sort of been this gray zone and regulation. And so the tech companies could kind of advance first and then regulation catches up with that. So some of this is an effort to kind of bridge that gap and, you know, make it so that the regulators are behind.

0 (12m 17s):
Is there like a broader strategy with this rectification campaign? These, these changes to education and Chinese culture and the economy,

7 (12m 27s):
All of this is happening under this big banner of common preparation

12 (12m 30s):
Disparity. It's the new buzz phrase in Beijing. Many of the policy changes rolled out by the communist party of late could be lumped in under the common prosperity theme,

7 (12m 40s):
Which is the slogan that she has used to express his commitment to dealing with income inequality and the lack of social mobility in China. So on the one hand, you could see this as a kind of populous move by Xi to rally support for him being in power for a third term and, you know, staying in power indefinitely. And how did the Chinese

0 (13m 0s):
People feel about

7 (13m 1s):
This? All of these measures, they are a way for the party state to assert control over the economy, the private sector in society. It's also important to remember that this issue of income inequality and social mobility is, is a real problem in China. And because of that, people have responded actually pretty positively to a lot of these measures because they see it as contributing to income redistribution or, you know, making things more equal.

0 (13m 28s):
It sounds like this might be about like the rural urban divide in China.

7 (13m 32s):
Yeah. This rural urban divide. There's also the social mobility question. I mean, it has, it manifests in lots of ways. So you have couples that don't want to have kids, even though the government keeps trying to encourage families to have more kids and they keep changing. You know, they've recently changed the family planning policies that you can have three kids instead of two, but people don't wanna have kids cause it's too expensive in cities. Or you have young people who are burning out and they're sort of checking out of the rat race and talking about this other slogan, that's called lying flat. So, you know, obviously the, the government doesn't want that. They don't want people to check out from society and not be productive members of the economy.

7 (14m 14s):
One of the criticisms that has been made about these huge number of measures and crackdowns is that they're actually surface level solutions at a very real problem. So income inequality is a real problem, but is banning for-profit education really going to fix inequality in the education system. So I think overall, what we're seeing is the result of the consolidation of Xi's power over his first two terms. So he launched this massive anti-corruption campaign that helped him, you know, eviscerate any real opposition. He shut down any remaining space for public dissent or protection of human rights. And he also put himself at the core of communist party ideology.

0 (15m 9s):
Quick break. Then we'll talk about she's foreign policy strategy and the submarines Support for the show. And it comes from nerd wallet, smart money podcast. Maybe you're looking for some financial advice, but you don't want to pay for it. Well, NerdWallet's smart money podcast is free and it's teaming with financial advice every week on smart money hosts, Sean piles and Liz Weston recap.

0 (15m 59s):
The financial news that actually affects your life. Then they invite a guest from NerdWallet's massive network of financial experts to answer real listeners, money questions. Maybe they have the same questions you do. They cover topics like how to approach buying a house as unmarried partners or making sure you're maxing out your Roth IRA, where to go for travel insurance and much more it's practical stuff. You can subscribe today. Wherever you listen to your favorite shows the show again is NerdWallet smart money podcast Support for the show comes from imperfect foods and imperfect foods wants to sell you food with bumps and scars.

0 (16m 45s):
You know, else has bumps and scars me other people, you, maybe your grandmother. I don't know that wasn't like a knock on your grandmother. I'm saying we all got bumps and scars. It doesn't mean we should just be discarded into the waste bin. And that's what imperfect foods is here to do. They're going to save that stuff because that's good stuff out there with the bumps and scars and they want to sell it to you. Unlike the grocery store, who, who, who wants to put it in the waste bin. So imperfect foods takes this bumpy scary stuff and puts it on your front door. And right now they want to put it on your front door and give you 20% off your first four orders. When you go to imperfect foods.com, just make sure you use the promo code explained 20.

0 (17m 28s):
That is 20% off your first four orders and imperfect foods.com off the code. Explain 25. Okay. Lily with Xi Jinping tightening his hold on power in China and setting himself up for a third and maybe who knows fourth, fifth, sixth term. I'd love to talk a little bit more about where China stands in the world right now. It's got friends and frenemies. Let's start with China's friends.

7 (18m 8s):
The belt road initiative is Xi Jinping's landmark foreign policy. So this is supposed to be China's contribution to the world. And it's kind of real mark in the international community. Chinese,

5 (18m 21s):
These companies are building roads, pipelines, and railroads around the world, but the initiative is also building China's influence.

7 (18m 29s):
It's basically about China providing cheap infrastructure and cheap financing.

13 (18m 34s):
You're on the outskirts of bandeau. The commuter train is old and slow

7 (18m 38s):
They're power plants. They are they're media companies. There's financing

13 (18m 43s):
Cutting through the Hills that lead to Indonesia's Capitol Jakarta. There's a tunnel for a high-speed train. And the engineers and managers who lead this $6 billion project are Chinese.

7 (18m 54s):
And any other projects that it can offer to potential friends in Asia, the middle east Africa and Europe. So basically everywhere.

0 (19m 4s):
It feels like China has been promoting this policy for almost a decade. Now. I mean, how successful has it been in expanding the country's influence around the world?

7 (19m 13s):
You could say that it has not been that successful because China has still been isolated on the international stage, by the U S and its allies. On the other hand, you could say it has been pretty successful because anytime something comes up at the UN, China is able to get a long list of countries that support its statements or measures 64 countries.

14 (19m 33s):
We have issued a joint statement at a UN human rights council meeting to express support for Tanya's policies in shin jam in response, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, jolly dens that China's policies and Shinjuku are not about human rights, ethnicity, or religion, but about combating violent terrorism and separatism

0 (19m 55s):
And mentoring the United States. And it feels like the United States for years now has been trying to combat China's ever expanding influence around the world. Where do us China relations stand right now?

7 (20m 9s):
So you're just trying to relations right now are pretty bad. Biden has continued a lot of Trump's policies. And I think there was this question in China of what would the Biden presidency be like and how, how much would he continue? Trump's what was viewed in China as a very anti China policy and by didn't his approach is to rely more on allies and countering China's influence, but fundamentally at least the Chinese, it seems to be at the same.

3 (20m 36s):
China has an overall goal, and I don't criticize them for the goal, but they have an overall goal to become the leading country in the world, the wealthiest country in the world, and the most country in the world. That's not going to happen on my watch.

7 (20m 51s):
It seems to still be treating China's.

0 (20m 53s):
And of course the biggest news on this front as of late, is that president Biden's going to supply some submarines to Australia, much to the chagrin of France what's going on there,

7 (21m 3s):
Right? So the U S and the UK and Australia don't have started this new defense Alliance where they will share nuclear submarine technology. China is also very upset about

15 (21m 14s):
China's foreign ministry said the three countries were quotes severely damaging, regional peace and stability, intensifying an arms race, and damaging international nuclear. Non-proliferation.

7 (21m 26s):
What's also interesting is that China's response has been to pressure different allies of the U S but in some ways they don't really have a lot that they can do now, because relations with the U S are already at a low relationships with Australia are very bad. They've been locked in a trade war for more than a year in the UK, and they've got this trade deal that is needed, but if the U S and the UK to strike a trade deal, which I think this pact kind of paves the way for that, then that leverage has gone to. So some people say that actually the submarine deal is, you know, it's a reaction to China being more aggressive, and that China's backed into a corner.

3 (22m 0s):
We need to be able to address both the current strategic environment in the region and how it may evolve, because the future, the vision of our nations, and indeed the world depends on a free and open end up Pacific enduring and flourishing in the decades.

0 (22m 16s):
It's just so interesting to think about this sort of like escalation militaristically and, and in terms of economic competition with China, because the two economies are really essentially tied to each other, right. And, and this includes everything the former president was trying to do with China on trade.

7 (22m 32s):
Yeah, I think that's, that is correct. You know, Biden keep saying he keeps using this term strategic competition that China's a competitor. The language is different in terms of framing China as a competitor, and that strategic competition will always be there. And on the Chinese side, I think there's also some acknowledgement that that competition is always going to be there

0 (22m 55s):
Internationally. You've got China at odds with the U S and all these proxy nations taking sides at home. You've got this raft of cultural changes. How is this going to animate changing Ping's third term?

7 (23m 8s):
So another idea behind these drastic changes that he's making is for China to achieve self-reliance. And that likely comes from, you know, looking at the international landscape, looking at the deterioration in China, us relations and the knowledge that, you know, those ties probably aren't going to get better soon. So another big part of the change in the economy is this idea of trying to rely more on the domestic economy. So I think a lot of the changes that we're seeing now are, are actually, you know, in response to what's happening with China in the U, and what's happening

16 (23m 46s):
Kind of in the international community and attitudes toward China,

0 (23m 57s):
Lily quo reports on China for the Washington post. Our episode today was produced by Hadi Milwaukee and miles, Bryan I'm Sean Ramez from, and this is the 900th episode of today explained, please give us 900 stars wherever you listen.

18 (24m 37s):
How many internet friends do you have that you've never met in person? I say internet friends, but the reality is the relationships we form online are just as meaningful and fulfilling as ones in real life. Sometimes more so with Facebook groups, you can find thriving, supportive communities of people with the same goals and passions. As you, people who love hiking have ambitious career goals, or who are working on loving the bodies they're in, in each Facebook group, admins will guide the group and keep things positive. So it's not a free for all on the open web. We live so much of our lives online. Why not find others to help us grow and learn there to take on anything with Facebook groups get started at facebook.com/groups.

18 (25m 26s):
More together

16 (25m 29s):
Support for this episode comes from Sephora. Beauty is a story. That's why support is shining a spotlight on the black creators and brand founders whose contributions haven't just shaped the industry. They help us clean beauty for ourselves. Black beauty founders have been leading this charge for decades. In fact, many of today's beauty trends, products, and tools have deep roots in black culture. Learn more about Sephora's commitment to supporting and celebrating black beauty at the foreign.com/celebrate black beauty.