1 (1s):
Do you need a router visit Linksys.com to save 15% on a new router with the code explained while supplies last cannot be combined with other promos refurbished products not eligible for this promotion one per customer deal with it. Canada had a big election yesterday, but maybe before we get into the results, you could use a quick primer on how their elections even work.

2 (37s):
We are a charmingly archaic constitutional monarchy.

1 (43s):
That means the Queen's on all the coins.

2 (45s):
We're big fans of the queen up here. It does mean that we didn't overthrow anybody in order to gain our independence and freedom that just, you know, we asked for it nicely and we have a parliamentary system which means that we have 338 elections that happen across the country. You don't elect your head of state you elect your local Member of Parliament and the party that goes on to elect the most members. Parliament typically gets the chance to form

1 (1m 10s):
government and without further Ado the results of the Canadian election. From coast to coast to coast tonight Canadians rejected Division and negativity. They rejected cuts and austerity and they voted in favor of a progressive agenda and strong action on climate change. Yes Canadian. One but he also kind of lost his party.

1 (1m 52s):
The Liberals don't have enough seats in Parliament to pass legislation on their own. So they're going to have to form coalition's it's undeniably a setback for prime minister Justin

2 (2m 3s):
Trudeau when he was elected four years ago, you know the wind of optimism and hope and change was at his back. He was a bit of a celebrity even in the United States. I mean, he scored photo shoots in places like Vogue. He really represented what Canadians wanted the rest of the world to think. About them like he was this young Dynamic caught charismatic leader who was Progressive and feminist and that was really the image that I think a lot of Canadians were happy to present about

1 (2m 30s):
themselves for years later.

2 (2m 32s):
Well, he wasn't that anymore. I mean he was that in 2015, but in this election, he was the incumbent and whole liberal order seems to be under Threat by this rise of populism and anti-immigration sentiment and just lack of faith in a lot of the values that have created. Bility over the last hundred years. It seems to me that so many other countries in the rest of the world. Canada is entering the end of this golden age and the fall of Trudeau reflects. That kind of Twilight

1 (3m 1s):
era Jen Gerson co-hosts the Canadian politics podcast called Oppo before we got into the actual election season. I asked her how Trudeau lost his Sheen in Canada turns out it sort of starts and ends with the prime minister's fondness for playing dress

2 (3m 16s):
up. Yeah history rhymes on this stuff. In 2018, he makes this week-long trip to India and he shows up in India with these outfits that are costume like they are so elaborate and so over the top that they look like something that you would wear if you were going to or even participating in an Indian wedding not just, you know, like showing up for a week-long trip to do trade deals. Like it was the image of Trudeau looking over the top and Bing quote-unquote a little too enthusiastic about costumes where I think sort of some of the skepticism about true Dost And to eat its way into the national consciousness.

1 (3m 59s):
And that would of course foreshadow another Scandal. But before we get to that one did it ever he had a genuine corruption Scandal to write not long after that?

2 (4m 8s):
Yes, and how do I explain the s&c Scandal to an American audience in 10 seconds or

1 (4m 12s):
less? Let's find

2 (4m 14s):
out Christ. I'm going to try I'm going to do my best. All right,

1 (4m 17s):
tell you what, we'll give you it will give you a 60.

2 (4m 20s):
Okay, it came at the end of last year one of the stars of Justin Trudeau's cabinet Jody Wilson reybold. Shuffled from the high-profile attorney general post to Veterans Affairs. Everybody's like what that's kind of odd. Well it emerged that Jody will spray bold had really fought back against the prime minister's office when the prime minister's office try to get her to issue is called the Deferred prosecution agreement for a company called Essen seal a villain, which is a Quebec based engineering firm that has been accused of corruption Libya. This was really the beginning of the end for Justin Trudeau's reputation as a progressive. Warrior because Jody Wilson reybold had I think the most senior post of any indigenous woman in Canadian history and to shuffle her out because she essentially stood up to the prime minister's office has said no, I'm not going to cut a sweetheart deal for a quote-unquote corrupt Quebec construction firm or engineering firm was a pretty damning statement on Trudeau and his party.

2 (5m 17s):
It just demonstrated that his Progressive virtues were entirely superficial

1 (5m 23s):
and that came before The Brown face black face thing even happened, right?

2 (5m 29s):
Oh, yeah, that came way before it Time Magazine got a hold of this picture of Justin Trudeau with brown makeup dressed up in Aladdin. He apparently had done Brown face for a fundraiser for the school that he formerly worked at and then after you got confronted with that, he was forced to admit that he'd kind of lost track of the number of times that he had done

1 (5m 49s):
blackface. So relatable.

2 (5m 52s):
It's always some video even came out of him not only in blackface where he had done up his hair and had a giant afro, Wig from I guess I think this is work from the 90s but like he'd actually painted his knees and hands and things like that like what and then when he was asked about that on the campaign Trail he had this amazing quote. It was something to the effect

1 (6m 12s):
of I've always been more enthusiastic about costumes than is somehow is sometimes

2 (6m 19s):
appropriate for me. It was such an encapsulation of the man's flaws. Not that he was a racist but that he's a bit of a frat boy that this is a guy who's so And so completely insulated from real life that you know, there was no part of him that stopped the moment before his hand hit his face with a giant brown makeup

1 (6m 40s):
brush. This is I'm sexually so glad you said that because I think that gives us an opportunity to play my favorite Trudeau clip which is like him doing an interview in his kitchen culpa thumb and then showing the reporter who's interviewing him and it's all in French. That he knows how to fall down a flight of stairs and he just leaps down a flight of stairs and rolls down and totally eats it and he's like at the end. He looks back at the reporter and he's like voila look at me. I can fall down stairs - Missy deaf-mutes pool only

2 (7m 15s):
upon this is a guy who's an actor and to me. He's this former Drama teacher who's playing the role of prime minister and doing a pretty credible job at it, but there's something fundamentally an authentic about it. And that is what I think the black face scan. Just got to like

1 (7m 31s):
What mmm so that that Scandal came sort of towards the beginning of your election campaign season, which is like enviably shorter than the US has season. Yeah.

2 (7m 42s):
I mean if you wanted to turn this into a conversation about why America system is bad. I'm here for you.

1 (7m 49s):
So how long is it actually like 30

2 (7m 51s):
days a rip period kind of spans anywhere from 36 to 50 days.

1 (7m 56s):
I think we had 50 days just between like two of our debates. Were there any memorable moments in the short campaign that y'all had? No, it's been terrible.

2 (8m 7s):
That's just been a really not just nasty campaign in the sense that there was a lot of allegations of sort of racism and the conservatives are anti abortion and then there was like these crazy whisper campaign that suggested that just Joe was like had an affair with a student back when he was a teacher. I mean it was all bullshit complete and utter nonsense, but it's also been just an extremely shallow campaign. Like there hasn't been a vision there really hasn't been a narrative. There hasn't been anything to get behind.

1 (8m 34s):
So in a campaign that was sort of boring and shallow. What did Trudeau have going for him?

2 (8m 40s):
Very little my takeaway from this election. Was that really nobody was trying to persuade anybody else anymore and that really what this campaign was all about was just getting Respective supporters to the polls. So when the Liberals come out and say the conservatives are going to take away your right to choose and there, you know cozying up with races thankfully

1 (8m 58s):
Canadians aren't buying it because conservative stand in the way of good policies that help people then they campaign

2 (9m 8s):
on fear and empty promises. They're not trying to win over any conservatives with that. They're just trying to scare their people to vote into voting and vice versa with the with the conservatives. I mean when Going after Trudeau and they're saying like Trudeau is going to make your life unaffordable. He's going to raise taxes.

1 (9m 24s):
Mr. Trudeau. You're a phony and you're a fraud and you do not deserve to govern this country. We're going to vote him out vote him out vote him out.

2 (9m 36s):
They're just trying to ensure that their people are motivated to come out to the

1 (9m 39s):
polls. It's funny though, because that sounds like a United States election when you were talking all that smack about our election system

2 (9m 44s):
over here. Yeah, we're starting to take on some of your traits and let me tell you it's not great. We kind of like being a little bit more polite than you. I mean, we're a bit smug about it. In fact,

1 (9m 55s):
how did Justin Trudeau managed to lose his majority government when he had a strong economy and not the stiffest competition in the

2 (10m 2s):
world because he won in 2015 by bringing Whole bunch of new people to the polls and in the wake of these scandals, which really put a dent in his reputation as a positive ethical reformer of Canadian government. How do you inspire those people to come out for you a second time

1 (10m 21s):
and they didn't

2 (10m 22s):
if they had come out for him a second time. He would be sitting at the head of another majority government and I think it's pretty surprising that he's not

1 (10m 40s):
After the break it wasn't just the scandals that hurt Trudeau's majority government yesterday people weren't thrilled about what the Prime Minister did in his first term that's in a minute on today explained. How's your wife? I know really how's your Wi-Fi Wi-Fi is such an integral part of our daily lives that it's hard to imagine life without it.

1 (11m 28s):
But can you imagine life with better wi-fi? That's what you get with Linksys. Linksys routers are the Wi-Fi solution for homes that thrive on entertainment if your Still renting your equipment from your Wi-Fi provider or haven't purchased a new router within the past three years and you're experiencing issues. It's time for an update links is solves the biggest Wi-Fi issues such as buffering dead zones and connection problems and it's super easy to set up and easy to control from the Linksys app. You can also easily set up separate guest access and parental controls to manage screen time and Filter inappropriate content, you know?

1 (12m 15s):
Yeah learn more about Linksys at Linksys.com and save 15% on a new router with the code explained while supplies last your limits one per customer and you can't combine this with other promos. Nice try. Jen Justin Trudeau was first elected prime minister for years ago in Canada. What was the mood in the country back? Then

2 (12m 45s):
people were sick of the conservatives Stephen Harper Stephen Harper. Remember Stephen Harper that hair though that hair though. So Stephen Harper was a pretty competent prime minister on the whole but he kind of came across as a really senior executive at a very successful large applesauce conglomeration, right? Like that's that was his tone. It was a very busy It's like it was very reserved is very cold and over time. I think that people started to have real questions about the conservative government's pettiness its meanness. It's cynicism and its

1 (13m 18s):
ethics the truth is that Justin Trudeau's liberal leader speaks very little about the specifics of his economic plan. He actually doesn't want to talk about it at all as we know. It's all you know, if I can be blind it's all unicorns and rainbows, but no talking about the real

2 (13m 36s):
specifics and I think it But were just sick of it. They were just it was time for someone knew it was time for a fresh new

1 (13m 41s):
voice. Yeah, how did it feel for Canada to have Trudeau win after years and years of Stephen

2 (13m 46s):
Harper. He was a breath of fresh air to think to a lot of Canadians. He was young. He was charismatic. He was Scrappy. He was also the son of former prime minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau. So he kind of had this almost Kennedy like Vibe. He was like the son of Destiny the Scion of the Trudeau name right A lot of people remembered the Elder Trudeau is being probably one of the most Intellectually vigorous and and inspirational Prime Ministers of his era. Our hopes are high. Hot faith in the people is great. Courage is strong and our dreams. For this beautiful country will never die.

1 (14m 30s):
What did you anger Trudeau promised voters as prime minister back in

2 (14m 33s):
2015 Trudeau replaced this turgid stale old government with a really inspiring platform a really ambitious platform sort of the sort of non status quo stuff that we hadn't seen in this country in a really long time quite

1 (14m 45s):
frankly Canadians are tired of that kind of leadership. You haven't been able to get it done on the environment. Mr. Harper. You haven't been able to get it done on the economy. You haven't built the kind of balance that Canadians expect if we're going to build strong communities if we're going to create jobs for our Children and grandchildren while protecting our air our water our land we have to actually show leadership and you have stepped. Mr. Trudeau from ngos and government officials are now covered three Canadians, you know, he promised to increase

2 (15m 13s):
refugees from Syria. He promised more open and transparent government indigenous reconciliation was a big one feminism was a big one. He promised to gender balance cabinet. He was big on the environment and I think a lot of it had to do was sort of the tone of government shifting to something more youthful and optimistic and forward-looking.

1 (15m 30s):
She sounds super ambitious. How did he do on that massive slate of

2 (15m 34s):
promises? He got a couple of things done to his credit. He did legalize marijuana, although how that actually turned out at the provincial level was a bit of a mixed bag. He did Implement a carbon tax. Although now most conservative premiers are you know, gleefully collecting support and vote supposing that carbon tax, you know, he did initially a put put out a gender-based cabinet and I think initially he did present a more positive. Own to government.

1 (16m 3s):
Where do you fall short on that slate of promises other than those scandals we talked about him battling during the actual campaign

2 (16m 10s):
the fact that he basically purchased the Trans Mountain expansion pipeline project. It's a seven billion dollar project that would nearly triple the capacity of the current Pipeline and give Alberta's oil sands more access to Asian markets. It's perceived among environmentalists to be a very very dirty kind of oil extraction if you are a progressive Civ and you're like look I voted for this dude because he promised serious action on climate change. This was a hugely negative thing to do that that just blew a real hole in your credibility as a climate change Crusader. That's why we've decided

1 (16m 43s):
that every dollar the federal government learns from this

2 (16m 47s):
project will be invested in Canada's clean energy transition. I would say ethical government and governance stuff that he promised to do in terms of making the Canadian government more open and transparent one of those promises for example was that he Going to stop slipping legislation into giant budget bills where it would get lost. And ironically one of the one of the things with that happened with the s&c Scandal was that the legislation that would have allowed the Attorney General to create a deferred prosecution agreement was hidden in in one of the budget bills. So I went completely unnoticed which is one of the things that the Harper government used to do that Trudeau promised would change after him. So it was just again another one of these examples of you know, when it came down to the nuts and bolts of governing he's running it pretty much exactly like previous governments

1 (17m 32s):
did hmm between being an on-and-off-again environmentalists sometimes more of the same politician and a few legit scandals. I wonder what Trudeau's many remaining supporters seen them

2 (17m 48s):
better than the alternative might be the answer. I mean that seems to be the pitch for the Liberals going into this campaign vote for me because we're the only guys who can keep the other guys out and the other guys are

1 (17m 59s):
worse. Hmm. You know, I grew up in Canada Jen. I don't know did you but I just you know what I recall from growing up in Canada and having leaders like, you know, Kim Campbell and Brian Mulroney and Jean kitchen was that like we didn't seem to really like flashy politicians with colorful socks and checkered pasts was Justin Trudeau sort of like a failed experiment in Canadian politics. I know it's weird to talk about him in the past tense when he's still going to be the Prime Minister but was 2015 sort of an anomaly and and Now Canada's getting closer to its reality.

2 (18m 34s):
Yeah, probably we probably just like boring leaders. But let's also remember that Pierre Elliott Trudeau was really the last example of a flash leader and Justin Trudeau. I think consciously evoked that I mean, I think he also consciously evoked Barack Obama when he was coming to power. He was the hope change candidate right just ironically as Barack Obama was ending his term and you know our Hopi changing Happy Feelings became something else entirely. I think that's you know, There's there's a touch of the kind of cold weather protestantism that that has infected Canadian DNA. I think most of us would prefer to be considered reliable and steady than flashy and sexy or national sort of motto is peace order and good governance hate.

2 (19m 18s):
This is and this and this I think actually reflects Canadian political history as a whole we kind of have as I said a charmingly archaic political Mm that is you know, built around tradition and ritual monarchy and stability and I think that it's more important. I think for a lot of Canadians to have a government that is seen as competent and stable and reliable than one that is seen as Visionary or flashy that's traditionally been the Canadian

1 (19m 53s):
way.

2 (20m 0s):
Trudeau was a departure from that. He was he was unique in that. I think it's probably too soon to consider him a failure. I mean for all we know he could come back with a majority parliament in six months time. And in fact heck that could happen it absolutely could happen. So I wouldn't rule him out. I wouldn't say he's out of the game, but he certainly is going to go down in history as an outlier. So I think at this

1 (20m 24s):
point Jen Gerson is a journalist based in Calgary Alberta. She's one of the hosts of the Oppo podcast from the Canada land podcast Network check them out for all your Canadian news and media criticism. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today explained. We are produced in association with Stitcher and were part of the VOX media podcast Network. The team is comprised of a theme Shapiro. He's the The engineer Bridget McCarthy, I'm gonna oh, sorry and Halima Shah. They produce so does know I'm hassenfeld. He also makes music along with the mysterious brake master cylinder. We're blessed with extra help this week from Miles Brian Zack st.

1 (21m 7s):
Louis Olivia extra and Jillian Weinberger and were blessed every week by Irene. Noguchi. She's the executive producer of the show. Fun fact for all the Canadians listening today explained is doing its first-ever live show in Toronto this November as part of the hot docs documentary Festival. You can expect us up in the 6:00 on Saturday. November 9th, the easiest way to find tickets for the show is to go to podcasts dot VOX media.com / events. See you soon. Just a reminder before we go that you can visit Linksys.com. That's link2sd sys.com to save 15% on new router with the code explained that CX pla iined while supplies last cannot be combined with other promos refurbished products are not eligible for this promotion one per customer Rama's firm out.