1 (1s):
The United nations general assembly is meeting in New York. This week. There will be a lot of talk about Ukraine, about stopping the war there. And with all those world leaders gathered, it might seem like this is the place, and now is the time, but probably nothing will change. Vladimir Putin isn't coming. Russia will likely keep on doing exactly what it is doing because the United nation security council, the 15 nation body with five permanent members, including Russia, that's meant to stop wars of all kinds to be the world's policeman and peacemaker as a really bad track record, Ukraine has been all, but begging the security council since February to do something, it

2 (40s):
Is responsibility of this body to stop the wall. So I call on every one of you to do everything possible to stop the wall

1 (47s):
Coming up on today, explained why the world's peacemaker cannot get anything done

Samsung (60s):
Support for today's show comes from Samsung. If you are not quiet, quitting, but instead looking to supercharge your productivity. Here's the thing to know. Samsung's new galaxy Z fold four offers a world of possibilities with an expansive foldable screen. It's more than just a phone Z fold four is a full on multitasking powerhouse that lets you do more than ever, right from the Palm of your hand, the large and I'm told immersive screen folds out. So you can watch your favorite content while using your phone to take notes or to take a selfie. All of it. Hands free. You may visit samsung.com to learn more about the galaxy Z fold four.

3 (1m 41s):
Hey everyone, it's Sean. I wanted to tell you about a crazy day. I had recently here at the office. It was the day the Supreme court overturned Roe V. Wade. I immediately called up a Jane, someone who helped women secure illegal abortions in Chicago in the late sixties. And, and I woke her up and she said, what are you talking about? And I said, they overturned Roe V. Wade. She said, call me back later. Then I immediately biked over to the Supreme court and did a standup with Noel, where I got her some audio of what it looked like there outside the court. The day this historic decision had been made, then I got to the office and we were all pitching in as a team to help make this show possible. And then one of my colleagues, Victoria drove me up to the James apartment, where I interviewed her for an hour and then came back to the office to do another interview.

3 (2m 25s):
It was a while day, a week later, we published that episode. It's called ask Jane. The work we do here at Vox is possible. Thanks in part to support from generous listeners like you this month, Vox is aiming to add 5,000 contributors to the community, supporting Vox journalism, to keep our explanatory journalism free. You can make a gift at vox.com/give today to help us reach our goal. Thank you.

1 (2m 58s):
It's today explained AB whale king. Ari Friedman is managing editor at the Atlantic council and a contributing writer to the Atlantic. And after Russia invaded Ukraine in February HRI wrote about how to reform the UN security council because the UN security council tried and failed at the start of the war to prevent Russia from doing what it was doing. Horry, can you talk through what happened in February?

4 (3m 24s):
Yeah. This was a defining moment for the UN security council. For me, it was really a tale of two spectacles. The first was the Russian ambassador to the UN happened to have the rotating presidency for the UN security council. And we witnessed the spectacle of that ambassador presiding over a security council session as Russia invaded Ukraine in flagrant violation of the UN's founding principles.

5 (3m 53s):
Russia's clear attack on Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity is unprovoked. It is an attack on Ukraine's status as a UN member state. It violates a basic principle of international law and it defies our charter.

4 (4m 10s):
Then shortly after that, Russia veto to resolution a condemnation of Russia's action and full scale invasion of Ukraine as a violation of UN principles and, and the UN charter and the demand, a call for Russia to withdraw its troops from Ukraine.

2 (4m 29s):
It would condemn the aggression that you launch on my people. There is no purgatory for war criminals. They go straight to hell ambassador

4 (4m 41s):
And you saw very, very vividly just how much when a permanent member of the UN security council decides to be an aggressor, how they can use the body as a shield and wield the security council in a way that becomes totally ineffectual as a means of stopping war. So that was the first stark illustration of the fact that it just was not up to the job of stopping the war. But the second was that Ukraine's president went around and did a world tour. He spoke to Congress, he spoke to many other legislative bodies and world leaders. And he actually said the UN security council and organizations like it are not able to solve the problems that we're facing today. The

6 (5m 19s):
War of the past have prompted our pre assessors to create institutions that should protect us from war, but they unfortunately don't work. We see it, you see it. So we need new ones, new institutions, new alliances.

4 (5m 37s):
He propose this idea of a U 24 coalition of countries that come to the eight of other nations within 24 hours of a crisis, breaking out

6 (5m 45s):
A union of responsible countries that have the strength and consciousness to stop conflicts immediately.

4 (5m 57s):
I couldn't believe he was proposing this. It was like someone whose house is on fire proposing changes to fire regulations. You know, how do you think about UN security council reform in a moment like this? But I think he felt that way because he and his country had been failed by international institutions like the UN security council and the need for something new, the urgent need for something new was so obvious to him.

1 (6m 19s):
Was there really a chance that the UN security council could have prevented Russia's invasion or was that always kind of damned from the beginning?

4 (6m 30s):
You'd think an institution named the UN security council should be able to stop an invasion like this. Yeah, but the answer, right. But the, the answer is no, the security council is really struggling right now to respond to contemporary challenges. But this is really important and almost counterintuitive to keep in mind. Some of it is by design. You know, when the UN security council was created, it was not designed to turn its sites inward on its own members. And so where it's most vulnerable is when a permanent member of the security council, the most powerful members, when they decide to violate international law, when they decide to be aggressive, it can do very little to stop its own permanent members from acting that way.

4 (7m 15s):
And so the, in some ways the, this is it's a feature, not a bug of the security council. And we saw that all too vividly in the war in Ukraine.

1 (7m 23s):
What is the purpose of the UN security council? What is their job?

4 (7m 28s):
The job description plainly is to be the world's main and most powerful body for addressing threats to international peace and security. And one thing to keep in mind is the UN security council has powers and no other entity in the United nations has so it can initiate military action. It can Institute peacekeeping operations. It can implement international sanctions. It's resolutions are binding on all UN members. So if the United nations as a whole is like the world's most principle international body, the UN security council is its teeth.

1 (8m 6s):
If the point of the UN security council is to prevent threats to peace, then I'm imagining who should be on it. And it's like, definitely Switzerland, definitely Sweden, who just stays outta stuff. Costa Rica does a great job of staying outta stuff who is on the UN security council. And how is it set up in terms of who holds power?

4 (8m 30s):
So the way it works is there are five permanent members of the UN security council, the United States, Russia, China, France, and the United Kingdom. It's basically a snapshot in time of the powers that defeated the Nazis and Japan after world war II. And that is why it is those countries.

7 (8m 49s):
If we had had this charter a few years ago and above all the whales or use it

8 (8m 55s):
Millions now dead would be a

4 (8m 57s):
Lie. And then they have a kind of hallowed place within the security council because they can wield a veto, so nothing can pass a security council without their acquiescence or affirmative ascent. Then there are 10 members that rotate and they're elected to two year terms. And so here you get more geographic representation. So there, you know, there are countries from every region of the world, you could have a country, like you mentioned, like Switzerland or Costa Rica be a part of that, but these change all the time and they do not have a veto power like the five permanent members do.

1 (9m 28s):
Okay. Why was the security council set up this way with the us France, the United Kingdom, China and Russia, all famous troublemaker put in positions of veto power.

4 (9m 41s):
So I mentioned world war II, but the story really begins in the 1920s. The

8 (9m 46s):
Draft covenant was adopted by 42 states on the 15th and November, 1920. The first assembly of the league of nations was held in Geneva.

4 (9m 54s):
Many people will be familiar with the league of nations, which was established in an effort to try to prevent a world war, a conflict like that from ever happening again, Geneva

8 (10m 3s):
Was to become the clearing house for the agreements and disagreements of the world,

4 (10m 7s):
But the league of nations failed catastrophically in the lead up to world war II. And the idea here was can we build something better than what the league of nations was in order to prevent a third world war from ever happening a

9 (10m 21s):
History making moment as Lord Halifax calls for a standing vote on the approval of the charter of international organization and the heads of the 50 United nations delegations rise to be counted, the vote, his unanimous,

4 (10m 37s):
One of the goals they had after world war II is how do we get the buy-in of the world's major powers? And of course, Germany had just been defeated. Japan had just been defeated Italy as well. So when they thought about world powers and they thought about the ones who prevailed in the conflict and really the price of admission to get these powers, the buy in including most particularly the United States and the Soviet union was to give them veto power, to say nothing big can happen without your support. And that got all of the powers on board, but once that kind of power is given, it's very hard to change anything. And so that frozen in time decision has stayed this way really up to the present day.

1 (11m 20s):
Tell me about the years after world war II. We never did end up having a world Wari. So something went right. Was it the influence of the UN security council that has gotten us this far?

4 (11m 32s):
Not fully, I wouldn't credit the United nations with fully stopping a world war II, but I think it has played a role in that part of the design of having these countries have a veto power is an effort to stop world war II in the sense that they can all work together to try to be the world's policemen, but they are prevented because of, of the veto power from using the security council to go after each other. And some people argue that even though that is really frustrating in the case of something like the war on Ukraine, what it does do is it prevents these countries from using the UN security council to past resolutions that could spark a world war three. So that is one argument in the favor of this very frustrating system.

4 (12m 15s):
But another was that the designers at the end of world Wari had a misperception about the trajectory of international relations. You know, they thought these were the powers that have worked well together during world war II. And they thought, well, they can work together to act as the world's policeman, but very quickly that was undermined the cold war started months after the system was set up. And these countries really stopped being able to work productively together very shortly after the inception of the council. So for example, in 1959, the UN security council passed just one resolution. The entire year. There were months where they didn't meet at all during the seventies and eighties, the security council really drifted all because of cold war tensions.

4 (12m 59s):
And more recently, there have also been a lot of struggles. Everything from the UN security council's failure to stop the Rwandan genocide,

10 (13m 8s):
The international community together with nations in Africa must bear its share of responsibility for this tragedy as well

4 (13m 21s):
To its failures, to, to really meaningfully intervene in the Syrian civil war.

12 (13m 26s):
We need some solidarity and really to purpose, particularly among the department members of the security council, when they are divided is extremely difficult for the United nations to deliver

4 (13m 39s):
Stop. The second Iraq war

11 (13m 41s):
I gave my heart and soul to stop you committing the disaster that you did commit in invading Iraq. And I told the world that your case for the war was a pack of lies

4 (13m 56s):
To stop Russia's invasion of Crimea before this latest invasion

13 (13m 59s):
Russia's actions in Ukraine since 2014 have led to approximately 13,000 conflict related

4 (14m 5s):
Deaths. And the security council has also really struggled to address and respond effectively to security threats are not traditional, but really affect human security. These days. Things like climate change and pandemics, it's been really a bit player there too.

1 (14m 23s):
When was the golden age of the UN security council?

4 (14m 27s):
Yeah, so the UN security council's darkest days have been long and it's moments in the sun have been very short lived. I would identify probably as the golden age, this period after the cold war, when the United States was the world's preeminent power in 2018, I went to go meet the UN secretary general Antonio Gutierrez, and he had this Glint in his eyes. As he talked about that period, he was, he was remembering a time where there was violence in the former Portuguese colony of East Timor. After there was a vote for independence from Indonesia, and he was recalling how, as soon as the us president who at the time was bill Clinton decided that an intervention, a peacekeeping intervention there was necessary.

4 (15m 10s):
Everything happened, the UN security council acted, it, it sent in a peacekeeping operation. It stabilized a situation. Antonio Gutierrez kind of rung his hands and looked visibly upset. And he said that kind of thing. It just doesn't happen anymore. It can't happen anymore. The reason that was a gold age was because the United States was the unrivaled power and Russia and China were not yet at a point of power or tension with the United States where they would really push back against everything that the United States wanted to do. It certainly was a period in which it probably acted most effectively for the longest period of time.

1 (15m 44s):
Is there any country out there saying, guys, we gotta reform this. We gotta figure out a way to do this differently.

4 (15m 53s):
Oh yeah, there are a bunch. And I would put the reforms into three buckets. One bucket is global representation. So as I mentioned, the, especially the permanent members on the UN security council are really a frozen snapshot in time from 1945 and power dynamics then. So there's a lot of reforms that go about, you know, trying to increase the representation, whether permanent members or non-permanent members of the security council, for example, there's no Latin American representation, no African representation, no representation from south Asia,

15 (16m 26s):
No reform of the UN will be complete without the reform of the security council.

4 (16m 32s):
And often you hear countries that really feel, they have a real reason to be better represented in the security council proposing changes. So for example, India or Brazil or Japan, we

15 (16m 42s):
Seek the expansion of both the permanent and non-permanent categories of membership to enhance the council's legitimacy, effectiveness and representativeness.

4 (16m 54s):
The second bucket of reforms is more leadership changes. So, you know, we should change the way the UN secretary general is selected. We should empower the president of the UN general assembly more. And the third bucket of reforms is more about the veto. So one really intriguing proposal that has gotten a lot of support from UN member states is something proposed by France and Mexico, which is that in the case of mass atrocities, mass human rights violations, the permanent members should voluntarily relinquish their veto and say, we're not gonna use it. The thing is the key word there is voluntarily. And it's very hard to actually convince these countries to voluntarily give up their, their veto.

4 (17m 37s):
It sounds good in, in theory, but in practice, I'm kind of skeptical that it can actually get traction and that the UN security council, permanent members would actually voluntarily give up the power they wield

Babbel (18m 4s):
Support For the Saturday comes from babble B a B B E L. I spell it out because babble is in the business of language learning. And you can start your new language learning journey today with babble. Let me tell you, I recently went to Italy, not trying to flex, trying to tell you a story about how I didn't learn Italian before I went, cuz I was busy podcasting in English and I thought I'd be okay cuz I speak some Spanish, but my goodness was I not okay. And I, I really wish I had some babbled before I went, cuz I was just babbling on in English and it wasn't getting me anywhere. I did see some Sri Lanka Italian saying mama Mia, which blew my mind anyway, right now you can get up to 55% off your subscription. When you go to babel.com/explained, you know how to spell it. babel.com/explained for up to 55% off your subscription, Babel language for life or for your like two week trip to Italy where you wanna make friends.

This Is Love Podcast (19m 9s):
Hey folks, I wanna tell you about another show that I have heard is amazing. It's called this is love. It's a podcast that takes a very broad view of love sharing stories, not just about romance, but also about people doing strange things. That mean a lot to them. Like someone who digs up old backyard outhouses to find hidden treasure and a group of people desperately trying to keep one type of tree alive. Some of the stories are really funny. There's an episode about a guy who puts on a huge pair of fake feet and makes tracks up and down the beach. He spends decades fooling his neighbors and some of the stories are heartwarming. They have won about a man who found a baby on a subway platform. Listen for stories about love and all of the surprising forms it can take. You can subscribe to this as love, wherever you get podcasts

4 (20m 4s):
it's today explained we're back with Ori Friedman who recently wrote for the Atlantic about how to fix the UN security council or I wonder has the UN ever successfully committed reform in these ways that people have been asking for Yes, there have been reforms in its history, but I wanna manage expectations here. These are not spectacular scintillating reforms. Okay. So there have only been five changes to the UN charter in its entire history. And none has happened since 1973. So it's been a long time. Wow. Since we actually changed the UN charter, I will point to one change that happened as a result of the Warren Ukraine, which is that the tiny nation of Stein championed a, an effort to make it so that if a permanent member of the UN security council, vetos a resolution like Russia did in response to the war in Ukraine.

4 (21m 3s):
Now it is mandatory that the UN general assembly hold a debate and discussion about the veto within 10 days of it happening, the

16 (21m 12s):
Resolution is non-binding and nothing prevents the veto building power from declining to comment on its decision and explain itself to the general assembly. However, the

4 (21m 24s):
Idea, I think it's significant in the sense that it shows that there's ferment in the UN that there's a desire for change. If you think about shining a spotlight on the veto casting member, it does kind of enhance the brightness of the spotlight, but this is not some elusive cure for the UN security council's maladies. This is a, a important step, but a relatively small one

1 (21m 49s):
Without being snarky Ori, because you've said it's important. Although relatively small, there is already a fairly bright spotlight on Russia, reflecting 12 million people who have fled their homes in Ukraine. There are many reporters documenting atrocities, Vladimir Putin is running around inventing history. We would already be paying attention to Russia. Why does it matter that we turn up the spotlight at tick? We know what Russia's doing. The UN knows what Russia's doing.

4 (22m 18s):
Totally a fair critique. And I agree that it is probably an incremental change, a marginal change rather than a major one. I think one distinction I'd make is that a lot of the critiques you're hearing about Russia's actions are, are done by Ukraine, certainly. And the United States and its allies and a debate in the UN general assembly would at least expand the range of countries that are discussing the veto. You know, in a case like this, if nothing else, it sends a message to these P members that you can't veto with total impunity. It at least extends the period of time that there is scrutiny on this decision. So people don't feel they can cast a veto block, a huge, really important initiative and just walk away and quietly have it happen.

4 (23m 2s):
And no one pays any attention.

1 (23m 4s):
And if you were in charge and you could make a simple reform, what, what would it be if you had all the power and said, all right, guys, from now on, we're doing it differently. What would your fix be?

4 (23m 17s):
So, as I was looking into this, I didn't want to present like a laundry list of reforms. I really wanted to zero in on one big idea that felt ambitious and bold, but theoretically doable, even if it would be very hard to actually accomplish what I ended up feeling was the most intriguing proposal was an idea that the UN general assembly should be able to override the veto of a, a permanent member in the security council, if there's sufficient support for the override. So this should be familiar to many Americans, for example, because it's a bit similar to what happens in Congress.

4 (23m 57s):
If there's exceptional support for an initiative, Congress can override the veto of a us president. The

17 (24m 2s):
Bill on reconsideration has passed the objection to the president of the United States. To the contrary, not withstanding.

4 (24m 9s):
The idea would be that if there's a veto cast, the UN general assembly then can have a vote and could potentially override the veto. If they have sufficient exceptional support in ways that would allow it to then pass the UN security council. And

1 (24m 23s):
How might your reform happen? How does this get done?

4 (24m 28s):
Yeah, that's the hard part, but not the, I think not the impossible part. So the big roadblock here is that this would require a change to the UN charter. And the way that happens is that two thirds of UN member states need to approve of the change through their respective constitutional processes. So, you know, in the us, I would mean going through Congress for example, and it also needs to be approved by all of the permanent members. My experience of looking into UN reforms is a bit like walking down a promising path and breaking from like a jog into a, a run and then slamming into the wall of the permanent members because all roads to fundamental reform at the UN lead through the permanent members, because they wield so much power, they kind of control whether the UN charter is amended or not.

4 (25m 23s):
There's another problem or challenge that there's 193 members of the UN security council. There are at least 193 ideas out there for how the UN and the UN security council should be changed. All that said, I do think there is a potential way that the United States could get on board with this. First of all, the United States is the biggest contributor financially to the UN. It has a stake in the international order that it created after world war II, which one of the major elements of that international order is the United nations. One way I could imagine this working is that the United States says we live in a time where we are facing existential threats that affect the whole world increasingly.

4 (26m 6s):
So things like climate change, pandemics nuclear weapons, that means it is a moment where we need to seed some power from the permanent members to the broader consensus of the UN's membership. And they could even say, you know, we're not afraid of the consensus of the world's nations on these big issues. We believe our enlightened national self-interest is in line with the interest of the vast majority of nations and Russia and China. If you're not supporting this, what does that say about you having the interest of the rest of the world in mind?

1 (26m 51s):
Today's show was produced by Jillian Weinberger with help from Tori Dominguez. It was engineered by Paul Robert mosey. It was fact checked by Serena Solan and Laura Bullard, and it was edited by Matthew Colette I'm Noel king it's today explained

KiwiCo (27m 29s):
Looking for a great hands on gift for the curious kids in your life, that tinker who can't stop exploring building and taking things apart. Kiwi COEs delivers super cool science technology and art projects for kids of all ages straight to your door every month, choose from nine different subscription lines, focused on subjects like engineering, art, and design science of cooking, and more, every crate delivered has everything you need to complete the project and they're seriously fun. Get 50% off your first month on any subscription line@kiwico.com slash Vox, 50 that's Kiwi co.com/v X five zero.