0 (0s):
On Sunday game of Thrones fans and also HBO hopes, people who never watch game of Thrones get to return to wild wild west roast for more politicking, more iron throne, grabbing more backstabbing, more front stabbing, more wildly distressing sibling relationships. Also there be dragons

1 (22s):
There. Power and men should never have tri through with

0 (25s):
House of the dragon is a prequel to game of Thrones. It's centered on the ice blonde ice collected targ clan and set 200 years before queen Danny loses her mind and burns it all down. But some things remain constant.

1 (40s):
I have decided to name a new a I'm your head.

0 (44s):
If you watch game of Thrones, you will not be shocked to learn. The family rivalry ends up destroying so much. Coming up on today, explained

1 (54s):
He's a foot. Do you think Ram will ever accept me? Aesthetic queen

2 (60s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them. The world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg.

3 (1m 44s):
Hey, I'm Sam Sanders and I host into it. It's a weekly show where we obsess about the culture that matters. Like how do you end a TV show these days, especially when it's part of a franchise.

4 (1m 58s):
Are you making it up as you go along? Are you just winging it? And the fans wanted the answer to that question to be absolutely not

3 (2m 7s):
Into it from vulture new episodes, every Thursday, subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

5 (2m 17s):
When people ask you what happened here, tell the north from members

0 (2m 22s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king James Hibbard writer at large for the Hollywood reporter. Did game of Thrones really change television.

6 (2m 31s):
Absolutely. It is arguably the biggest show of the 21st century so far and completely changed. What was considered possible in television

7 (2m 41s):
Season eight of game of Thrones is averaged 44 million viewers per episode,

8 (2m 46s):
And HBO fantasy epic game of Thrones also made Emmy's history, winning the most trophies ever in a season, including the top prize for best drama.

6 (2m 56s):
First was like the level of production. That's the most obvious, right? It's like the battle sequences in the latter seasons of the show are just as good. And I think actually in some cases better and certainly more, more coherent than what you often see in big budget movies.

9 (3m 11s):
I will not give my life for Jeff's murder and I know I'll get no justice here

6 (3m 19s):
And absolutely unlike anything done on TV before

9 (3m 23s):
I demand a trial by combat

6 (3m 28s):
And after Thrones, you saw this jump in budgets in terms of what companies were willing to, to spend

11 (3m 33s):
HBO spent 15 million on each individual episode of the eighth and final season of game of Thrones, making it the most expensive series on television at the time. In fact, a single season of television can exceed 150 million now for comparison, that is about the total budget of the new Spider-Man movie currently in theaters.

6 (3m 53s):
There was also, and this is something most people miss is the level of storytelling. Complexity was very groundbreaking. The show started very complex and critics complained early on. It's so hard to follow. And by season five, the show is jumping between eight different storylines.

12 (4m 10s):
You know, nothing, John Snow.

6 (4m 12s):
What they found is, is that fans actually liked that they, they, they liked having this really meaty story that them and that required, you know, a lot of dedication and thought. And then of course it was in terms of its genre, you know, fantasy, especially our rated adult fantasy, that wasn't considered a genre that that could attract a broad audience. I mean, there was the Lord of the rings, but those were massive movies that were also family friendly.

13 (4m 41s):
I thought I'd die side by side.

14 (4m 45s):
What about side by side with a friend?

6 (4m 49s):
And since Thrones, there's been this explosion and fancy projects like the Witcher and wheel of time and shadow bone and his dark materials entering the ring. So speak

0 (5m 5s):
So millions of people, myself included were wildly disappointed in the game of Thrones finale,

15 (5m 11s):
A change.org petition. That's calling for a remake of season eight has more than a million signatures. The creator of the petition has demanded a do over with some competent writers.

0 (5m 22s):
Do you get the sense that that response is at all shaping how HBO has gone about making this new show

6 (5m 30s):
To some degree? I, I, I think the season eight disappointment along with the rejection of the other Thrones prequel pilot, that was in the works before house, the dragon that was shot for 30 million and then scrapped, I think both of those things together were reminders to everyone involved. Just, just how high the bar is for executing a drama in Georgia or Martin's fantasy world. I think it really lit a fire. So to speak among all those involved in dragon, to know that this is not just another show, this is a make it or break it project and, and the expectations are gonna be sky high. And if it doesn't work, they're never gonna hear the end of it.

0 (6m 8s):
What's the space that HBO is hoping to fill now that there are so many of these big budget fantasy series.

6 (6m 15s):
Well, the, the show ended right as streaming was, was really starting to take off as, as this massive competitive thing. So, so you had two things going on at the same time, you had companies wanting to build up their streaming, you know, subscriber lists. And at the same time you have a show like game of Thrones setting. This example of, of here's what a, a epic show really needs to be.

1 (6m 43s):
There is only one war that matters the great war and it is here.

6 (6m 51s):
So I, I, I think that really boosted and incentivized companies to, to invest in, in content, you know, to an extent that they never had before. And, you know, in terms of what hole they're looking to fill, they're looking to fill the game of Thrones hole. They're looking to fill the hole on their platform that that was created when game of Thrones went off the air sooner than they wanted it, it to go. And now it's, you know, they don't just have the, you know, HBO Sunday night slot to fill, they have HBO max to fill, which isn't constrained by a, a linear schedule where you only have a couple nights to program. So, so that is, is very much what they're, they're trying to do.

0 (7m 33s):
How realistic is it that we are all gonna end up watching house of the dragon? Do you think?

6 (7m 39s):
I don't think anyone's expecting the numbers that we're, we're watching Thrones to watch house of the dragon. Ooh, what HBO needs dragon to do? They're not gonna be specific about the number it needs to hit. I'm sure they internally have a certain number that they're looking for for it to do. I think the odds of it getting a second season, no matter what are pretty high, because they're, they're going to figure that it's, it's better to keep going in hopes that the audience will build than to cut it off after one season. So, I mean, ultimately they wanna see a number that's high enough that incentivizes them to not just renew it, but also to green light, one of the other seven or eight projects that they have in development that are also game of throne spinoffs.

6 (8m 29s):
And, and that's, that's the real key.

0 (8m 31s):
Oh my God, they have that many.

6 (8m 34s):
Yes, yes. They have four scripted and at least three animated. And I mean, of course, no one will say there are fate hinges on, on, on dragon. You know, the refrain is, is they judge each project by its own merits. But of course they hinge on it. If dragon flops, the odds of HBO investing in another live action game of throne show, anytime soon, go way down, especially with the recent cutbacks. And if a dragon is a hit green lighting, while those other eight projects is going to be extremely tempting. So potentially decades of content hinge on this show, not just one show,

0 (9m 7s):
What would you say right now is going to be this show's big competition?

6 (9m 12s):
Well, the most obvious one would be Lord of the rings.

16 (9m 16s):
It's estimated Amazon acquired the global TV rights to the series for as much as 250 million,

6 (9m 23s):
Which is so ironic because George ARA Martin wrote his, a song of ice and fire novels to be a sort of reality check response to the Lord of the rings. Like what if you did the Lord of the rings, but people acted like human beings actually did during the middle ages, instead of acting like the heroic nights in shining armor that they do in, in tos land

17 (9m 45s):
Tolkien did certain things that, that are different than what I would do. And in the hands of some of the Toki imitators, those things have become cliches that I think have, have ultimately harmed the, the genre and made it made. People think that it's a, you know, entertainment for children or for particularly slow adults.

6 (10m 3s):
Now you have Amazon making the Lord of the rings in response to the success of game of Thrones that they're going to be rolling out episodes at the same time is almost bonkers.

0 (10m 15s):
What happens if house of the dragon is a flop? What are the stakes for HBO? What are the stakes for fantasy? If people hate this thing,

6 (10m 24s):
The stakes are pretty high for HBO and Warner brothers to discovery. HBO needs more tent pole shows. And, you know, as we talked about this, isn't just a one show, but potential franchise like Disney has with Marvel and star wars streaming is, is the business of selling addictive distraction, right? And if you have one show, then you have a, that people love. Then you have subscribers hooked for three months out of one year, and then maybe they come back after a year, year and a half passes. But if you have a franchise that has interconnected content and you keep green lighting shows, then you have potentially a situation like Disney plus has with Marvel and star wars where there's always another Marvel and star wars show coming within a few months so that you, that way you keep people subscribed and, and it goes on and on and on.

6 (11m 23s):
And that's definitely what HBO wants.

0 (11m 28s):
It is also what HBO's parent company wants after the break. Recodes Peter Kafka tells us about a sort of real life game of Thrones playing out at Warner brothers discovery,

2 (11m 46s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology, that money will help provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. But that's just a start. Having ambitious goals is what helps the world make meaningful progress. And it's going to take all of us working together to make sure we continue to move in the right direction because to address these worldwide problems, it's going to take worldwide action.

2 (12m 34s):
It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg.

3 (12m 47s):
Hey, I'm Sam Sanders. And I host a show called Intuit. It is a weekly show where we obsess about the culture that matters like revisiting the day when Beyonce dropped her self-titled album in 2013, by surprise.

18 (13m 4s):
And then we come out and the world is totally a light in a different way because this album has dropped

3 (13m 12s):
And viewing Beyonce, not just as a musician, but as a business executive

18 (13m 18s):
People talk about Ford. They talk about Nike, they talk about Coke and Pepsi, and they should talk about Beyonce

3 (13m 27s):
Or will deep dive into why the internet loves a 24 movies. Can you recall Swiss army man played

2 (13m 36s):
By Harry Potter? Yes.

19 (13m 37s):
Played by Harry Potter. And they realized that in the era of the internet, a movie about a farting Corp sells itself

3 (13m 44s):
Into it from vulture new episodes, every Thursday, subscribe, wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (13m 57s):
It's today explained I'm no will king Peter Kafka, senior correspondent at Recode and Vox covering media and technology. There are so many media companies, and I'm gonna start by telling you, I don't understand who owns, who

20 (14m 14s):
Join the club. We, we made a map by the way that shows all this stuff.

0 (14m 18s):
Oh, tell me about the map.

20 (14m 20s):
We, we literally made a sort of constellation of planets and they all represent big media distribution companies. And what's happening is the big things are getting bigger. They're slowly absorbing the smaller things. And in this case, you've got discovery, which was one of the smaller players in media has absorbed the thing that used to be called time Warner, which was one of the mightiest media companies on the planet. It's been shrunk over time. Most recently it was owned by at and T the giant phone company at and T bought it in 2016.

20 (15m 8s):
Finally owned it in 2018. And then in 20 21 18, he said, actually, we don't want to own a giant media company. We're gonna hand it over to discovery. And that is why discovery now owns a thing called time Warner. And the entire new company is called Warner brothers discovery. Simple, right? Easy to understand. All

0 (15m 32s):
Right. Tell me about Warner brothers discovery, CEO. David Zalo

20 (15m 37s):
Za is a cable guy.

22 (15m 43s):
I love the cable industry. And so my energy level is higher. I'm reading about it, even in my part-time, because that's, that's what I love.

20 (15m 50s):
He's a lawyer who went to work for what was then called NBC universal and helped them put together all their distribution deals for their cable network. So you could watch things like the sci-fi channel and USA network, or you could pay for them whether or not you wanted to watch them. And eventually he got put in charge of discovery, which is the CA group of cable networks that brings you things like 90 day fiance and other reality shows.

23 (16m 21s):
We're almost to the end of the 90 days. And now he's questioning things. And I feel like, yeah, it's a short amount of time, but I've always been honest about who I am.

20 (16m 31s):
He is not programmer. He's not a creative guy. He's a deals guy. He's a manager. A couple years ago. He bought another cable conglomerate called scripts that also does reality TV. Put those things together.

24 (16m 46s):
50 to 60% of the content that people consume is not scripted series of scripted movies. So for us, it's home food discovery, Oprah crime chip, and Joanna Gaines.

20 (17m 0s):
And he gets paid really well. Cuz the stock keeps going up. He made a couple hundred million dollars in salary one year alone, but he has always wanted to be a full-fledged media. Mogul

25 (17m 14s):
Ambition is the willingness to kill the things you love and eat them in order to stay alive. Haven't you ever read my throw pillow?

20 (17m 22s):
He gets paid like one, he hangs out with them, but he has never gotten really the sort of respect in the industry up until now had been, not considered a to tighten of industry. And if you wanted to play arm share psychologist, you could say he really, really wanted to be taken seriously. Not just as a guy who operates reality TV networks, but as a serious Titan of media,

0 (17m 51s):
What is he known for at Warner brothers discovery so far? What, what big moves has he made?

20 (17m 56s):
Well, the first thing he did is he came in after a guy named Jason Kyler. Who's ran Warner media under, at and T for a couple years and caused a lot of within Hollywood because he was pushing to really turn the thing from an old line media company into a new line media company, which really meant he wanted to make the thing into a Netflix. And that gave people a lot of angst in particular movie, he made during the pandemic to say all of our movies that are supposed to go into movie theaters in 2020 and 2021, we are going to actually bring them to streaming and right away

26 (18m 34s):
The world is changing and, and, and that's the way the world's supposed to work. And so we're gonna, we're gonna obviously adapt to that. And in many ways, lead the charge there.

20 (18m 42s):
Lots of people, including directors and actors and agents all freaked out about that.

27 (18m 46s):
The greatest contributions we can make as filmmakers is to give audiences the motion, picture, theatrical experience. I'm a firm believer that movie theaters need to be around forever.

20 (18m 59s):
So David ZLA comes in and says, well, all of that is out the window. I'm going back to the old ways. I love Hollywood. I love creative people. I love all of you. And I believe that he believed that. But on the other hand, I think people were a little naive because when you merge companies, you always have to cut costs. In this case, David Salo had promised wall street. He would cut 3 billion in costs. And if you just think about it for a second, that means he's going to have to lay people off and shut down projects. And sure enough, that is what he's doing.

0 (19m 32s):
Who's he laid off and what's he shut down.

20 (19m 34s):
The first thing he did was kill something called CNN plus.

28 (19m 39s):
Well, CNN's new streaming service. CNN plus is shutting down less than one month after it launched CNN's new management made that decision after the site attractive, fewer than 10,000 daily active viewers,

20 (19m 51s):
More recently HBO has started disappearing. Some of its movies that you probably don't remember existed, but were still out there. There was actually a good one called American pickle, a remake of a movie called the witches with Anne Hathaway. These were all things that HBO max had commissioned as HBO, max streaming movies. And apparently not many people were watching 'em and no one thought they would notice. And they just said, if we just take them off our service, we don't have to pay anyone for them anymore. We're gonna cut that. He recently killed off a movie. That's finished. It's a superhero movie called bat girl.

28 (20m 24s):
The company decided to shelve this 90 million bat girl movie rather than release it on streaming. A lot of backlash there, but I'm hearing this is due to a number of factors, including the fact they did a test screening and the reaction by fans was not positive.

20 (20m 39s):
And then we just started this week seeing layoffs first at HBO, but they're gonna run throughout the entire Warner media discovery company for the next couple months. You'll see layoffs at, at unit after unit, after unit.

0 (20m 52s):
Why does Z have to cut costs? Warner media and discovery seem like successful brands. What am I missing

20 (20m 59s):
When you, when you buy a company, generally you don't say this company is great. We're gonna not touch it. And even if you say that, by the way you touch it. And when you merge two companies that are doing the same thing, it is both reasonable to assume. And you definitely have to tell wall street. You say we're gonna make these two companies better by pushing 'em together. And one thing we're gonna do is cut costs. He's also taken on a ton of debt that came with a Warner media when he bought it, he's got 53 billion total in debt that he's got to bring down eventually. So he does have to find ways to pay that off as well

0 (21m 34s):
Between the consolidation, the viewers dropping off the people, going back to the movie theater, maybe how is all of this affecting other streamers in the industry like Disney plus apple TV plus.

20 (21m 47s):
So there's, there's two groups to think about. There's the people who are in the business of selling media. That's Netflix, that's all of the old traditional media companies. And for the last five years or so, Netflix has been king of the world. And everyone in traditional media has been trying to contort themselves into a Netflix company. That's Disney, that's Warner, that's everyone. And the question there is how do you build up enough scale to keep up with Netflix? Netflix is spending 18 billion a year on content. How are you gonna keep up with them? They've got 220 million subscribers. They are the future. That was the conventional wisdom up until late last fall. And then you can sort of insert a record, scratch sound and all of a sudden Netflix's numbers start looking not so good.

20 (22m 31s):
And wall street starts to sour on Netflix's grow, grow, grow, but don't make so much profit model. And then at the beginning of this year, Netflix freaks everyone out and says, not only is our growth slowing, which was the whole point of our company was to grow, grow, grow. We're actually losing subscribers.

29 (22m 49s):
Netflix is losing subscribers for the first time in a decade, the platform lost 200,000 subscribers in the first three months of the year and expects to lose 2 million more in the second quarter.

20 (23m 2s):
And so what you see then is, is something that I've been calling the Netflix chill. You can think of it as a cold that is now sort of, or a contagion that's affecting the rest of the media business. They are all saying, oh, this thing where we're supposed to grow our streaming business, cuz that's the future. We're no longer getting rewarded for that. We kind of have to go back a bit to what we were doing. So that's one answer. And the other answer is you have Amazon and you have apple who are also interested in streaming, but that is not where they make their money. And they basically have an unlimited amount of money to spend on it cuz they make their money selling shoes or iPhones so they can continue to spend as much as they want.

20 (23m 42s):
As long as they remain interested in this business business, Amazon explicitly wants to have a giant Netflix like streaming business. The reason they've got a Lord of the ring show is because Jeff Bezo said, I want my own game of throne show. And they went out and spent, if you, if you believe the reports, a billion dollars to make this thing

30 (24m 5s):
BAS congratulations,

20 (24m 9s):
They're not constrained by traditional business principles right now, the rest of the media economy is torn between saying, we know the future is streaming. We know that the existing businesses running today are going away, but those are also the things that are making money right now. And we have to balance those two things.

0 (24m 27s):
We've spent the last decade talking about the golden age of television peak TV, prestige shows some of this stuff's been really good, frankly, are we gonna see more crud and less good stuff?

20 (24m 40s):
That is an open question. So one scenario is, you know what? People like game of Thrones, but they also like reality TV. If you look at what people watch on cable TV and regular TV, a lot of it is actually fairly cheap programming. Doesn't cost a lot of money to make 90 day fiance. People like it. It's not gonna win you a lot of awards people. Aren't gonna come to your Hamptons party and ask how you made it, but that's a good business we're gonna, and we're gonna do more of that. And another version of it says, you know what? Everyone in Hollywood has been making too much stuff and it has diluted the talent pool. And instead of everyone trying to make as much stuff as possible, what if we all pulled back a little bit and concentrated the really talented people that work in Hollywood on waking a few less things, but they'll be better.

20 (25m 27s):
I had BJ Novak on my podcast recently, this is the former star of the office. He's got a movie out and he was, he was complaining about all the streaming comedies.

31 (25m 36s):
The shows suck a lot. And if they were promising, often you take a talent. That would be incredible as part of a show. And now they're not available to be on some dream team elsewhere. And you end up with a lot of cute shows that get well reviewed that no one actually cares about.

20 (25m 54s):
So there is a version where you say it's not so bad. If we just slow down the machine a little bit and we make a little bit less, consumers still have a ton of choice. You have way more choice now than you did in the old days of TV. Relax. It's gonna be fine.

0 (26m 12s):
It's gonna be fine. And we'll get another office is what you've just promised me.

20 (26m 16s):
That's what BJ Novak wants you to believe.

31 (26m 21s):
Convergence viral marketing. We're going gorilla. We're taking it to the streets while keeping an eye on the street wall street. I don't wanna reinvent the wheel here. In other words, it is what it is. Buying paper just became fun.

0 (26m 34s):
Today's show was produced by Amanda Lou Ellen. It was edited by Amina Elsa. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and Tori Dominguez and it was engineered by Paul Robert mosey. I'm Noel king it's today explained.