1 (0s):
It's Friday, March 20th. And the person in charge of this crisis is still Donald Trump. I'm Shawn Rama's Vermin. This is your coronavirus update from today explained more than 11,000 people have now died worldwide as a result of covid-19. We've got well over 250,000 known cases and is now Daily Press briefing President Trump continued to be cagey. A about whether he'd use something called a defense production act to compel American Industries to provide critical medical equipment during this crisis. He then attacked his own state department calling it The Deep State Department.

1 (43s):
Dr. Anthony fauci from the NIH looked like he wanted to disappear but it was a heck of a transition to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo who did not defend his employees but announce the United States borders with Canada and Mexico will officially close to non-essential Travelers at midnight on Saturday. Pale also reminded Americans abroad to come home or get ready to hunker down for a while New York's Governor told people to stay at home as much as possible. He also told all non-essential businesses to close down California's governor did the same thing last night to essentially the nation's now running low on blood the blood isn't for covid-19 patients specifically, but the American Red Cross supplies roughly 40 percent of the nation's blood and blood drives have been canceled left and right.

1 (1m 30s):
They're trying to pick up the slack and could use your help. And from the Department of Silver Linings Americans got an extension on their taxes. You've got until July 15th. Make it a hot tax summer get in touch with today explained via email today explained it box.com or on Twitter today underscore explained. I'm a traumas firm. This episode is brought to you by Lending Club on the off chance that you're looking to pick up a new loan right now. If you carrying revolving debt, which I hear some of the worst debt to carry, you can be paying thousands of dollars in interest every year, but you do not have to Lending Club is the number one peer-to-peer lending platform and can help you consolidate your debt and pay off credit cards with one fixed monthly payment.

1 (2m 18s):
If you want to learn more go to Lending Club.com explained check your rate and minutes and borrow up to $40,000. That's Lending Club Dot. Tom / explained all loans made by web Bank member FDIC Equal Housing lender We've been explaining covid-19 wall-to-wall on the show and there's still a ton of stuff. We haven't explained So today we're gonna do something we've never done before an entire episode dedicated to listener questions because you all have some really good questions. A lot of them too. We can't get to them all but we picked ones that don't overlap too much with the stuff. We've already covered and the stuff we'd like to cover in the future.

1 (2m 60s):
Okay, let's start with something essential something. We've all been thinking about Paper why is everyone buying all the gosh-darn toilet paper as if covid-19 were some kind of diuretic. I mean I get that if you're not planning on leaving the house for a while, you got to have TP but

2 (3m 16s):
a lot of it is also just about seeing empty shelves the more you see it on in stores on social media in the news that creates the perception of scarcity. So you think that there isn't enough and you want to make sure that you personally have control

1 (3m 31s):
Hillary George Parkin rights for the goods from

2 (3m 34s):
box. Stockpiling in general is really about control and people are really scared right now. This is probably the most uncertainty a lot of people have experienced in their lifetimes. They want to make sure they have everything they need at home. No matter what happens in the coming weeks. And so stockpiling toilet paper is one way to do that

1 (3m 52s):
Hillary. I'm on a few texts trains that include People from Utah people from Missouri and they're saying Costco is out there saying the grocery stores are out. We'll all of these shelves get restocked.

2 (4m 1s):
So manufacturers are still making toilet paper. They haven't Any issues with the raw materials, they're still delivering it to stores every day. They're running at capacity there in many cases taking new steps to replenish shelves as quickly as possible such as sending trucks directly to and from paper factories and cutting out distribution centers and based on all the information we have right now. There's no danger of the supply running out. If you do run out as you may have gathered Costco probably isn't the place to go unless you want to line up first thing in the morning and wait for For a long time in a large crowd of people but definitely check local retailers. Maybe you have a bodega a corner store a small independent grocery call ahead for sure.

2 (4m 46s):
And as far as one is actually going to go back to normal. It really depends on how we as consumers behave because this is more about demand than Supply if everyone is taking what they need. Supply will have a chance to catch

1 (4m 57s):
up. I guess while we're on supply and demand and Essentials will will there be enough food now that every Millennial who's like never Cooked in their lives is making their own meals at

2 (5m 7s):
home. So everything we've heard from the federal government from the agricultural industry tells us that the US has plenty of food. So the empty shelves you're seeing a really reflection of this surge in demand that we've seen in recent weeks when interesting quote. I heard from a supply chain resilience expert at CNA, which is a research organization was the more the stock market goes down the more grocery buying goes up.

1 (5m 28s):
We got an email this morning from Lori who's a grocery store employee and she said what measures are being taken to protect. At grocery store workers like me who can't buy hand sanitizer and can only wash our hands on

2 (5m 41s):
break. Yeah. So along with health care workers right now grocery store workers truck drivers warehouse workers. They're basically the front line particularly a city's start imposing stricter rules to help stop the spread of the virus delivery services have set up no contact drop-offs. So drivers can leave orders on a porch or at a front door without having to physically hand off a package and this is something we actually saw used extensively. In China over January and February and it's been so effective that some experts say that people will probably continue to use it even as these cities are largely returning to normal life. Hmm and then in terms of warehouses and grocery stores, what we've heard from companies is that they're following CDC guidelines around making sure workplaces are thoroughly cleaned and disinfected asking employees not to come in if they feel sick and implementing social distancing between workers were possible still.

2 (6m 31s):
These aren't really workplaces that are particularly. All set up to accommodate some of these Health precautions particularly as they're facing this huge surge in demand both an online orders and in terms of customers coming to stores. So we're seeing for instance Amazon warehouse workers in Seattle, which has been one of the centers of the outbreak in the u.s. Complain that the company isn't conducting daily screenings for Coronavirus symptoms, which is part of the cdc's recommendations for Seattle specifically and in Italy, there's actually been a strike at a fulfillment center where to employ These have tested positive for the virus.

1 (7m 8s):
Hillary George Park and rides for the goods from box there covering the shit out of all this toilet-paper stuff and other consumer angles on the coronavirus to find him at box.com. We got a ton of questions specifically about covid-19 about the myths about the conspiracy theories about the symptoms of the virus, but one question that felt essential to us was is this thing really just like the flu and if so, why don't we care this much about the flu? It felt like a good question for a

2 (7m 39s):
doctor. My name is Owen Albin

1 (7m 42s):
a fancy

2 (7m 43s):
doctor. I'm an infectious disease doctor at the University of Michigan.

1 (7m 49s):
So is it just like the flu is it's just like flew to the sequel

2 (7m 52s):
the novel coronavirus that's circulating right now is similar to the flu in the sense that it can cause symptoms that are very similar to the flu. So it causes fevers it can cause lots of chills and muscle aches it can cause people to feel really really crummy and tired and in a minority of cases it can cause a bad infection of the lungs which Makes it difficult for people to breathe the difference between the coronavirus in the flu though is that the coronavirus appears to be more lethal the coronavirus also appears to spread between people more easily than the flu does

1 (8m 35s):
I keep getting texts and emails from my older family members saying that if you keep your throat wet, you can't get covid-19. They are not doctors you are. Can you avoid the Rona if you keep your throat wet and If not, where should people be getting good information in a sea of gross speculation?

2 (8m 54s):
So for the first part of the question the answer is no that's kind of an urban legend viruses are kind of like little spaceships. They dock onto the cells in your throat often and so once they're inside they start replicating and they're going to keep replicating inside of cells. So gargling really anything in the back of your throat is really not going to Get rid of the virus that's already inside your cell in terms of what the most trusted sources of information are if you're looking for something online really anything that the CDC puts out. That's probably the best source of information in the United States

1 (9m 35s):
doc. I asked Hillary how we can keep grocery store workers safe how our health care workers like you staying safe. We've heard a lot of news that it's treacherous out there for y'all and we've heard from listeners who want to know too.

2 (9m 49s):
We're kind of doing the same thing that everyone else is doing we're trying to be careful about who and how close we get to that's often not possible in the medical field because you need to be fairly intimate for lack of a better word when it comes to examining people and taking care of them. So we're really trying to use appropriate personal protective equipment as much as

1 (10m 15s):
possible. Well, thank you for your work seriously and I want to let you get back to it, but one last important question before I let you go and this one might not be appropriate for the kids in the room parents. It comes from Michael Smith who emailed us can someone explain if you can contract coronavirus through sex, I don't kiss during sex parenthetical. I had a bad experience at Burger King. So I was wondering what fluids and organs can catch it. No,

2 (10m 45s):
not in the traditional. Chanel sense. There's there's not evidence right now that the coronavirus can be passed sexually and the way that you might think a sexually transmitted diseases. However, you know sexual intercourse often involves. Very close personal contact chances are that you're going to be exchanging respiratory droplets having sexual intercourse.

1 (11m 14s):
Mmm, is there anything sexier than respiratory droplets? I know what you thinking though. What happened to Michael Smith at Burger King. I asked him. He did not answer but the editorial director of vocs podcasts. Liz Nelson has a theory nothing happened to Michael Smith at Burger King. He was just making a reference to the Humpty Dance by Digital Underground got busy in a Burger King bathroom. Crazy in my defense. I was five when this song came out. So I'm going to give myself a pass for missing the reference more of your questions after the break.

2 (12m 5s):
This is Advertiser content climate change the global Refugee crisis cybercrime. The big issues are huge and we're just a notification away from more bad news. It's leading to something called headline stress disorder and the first notable spike in stress in a decade and a decade ago. We were knee-deep in a global recession. So why does scrolling through a Newsfeed leave us feeling powerless anxious even afraid we just get a little tired of seeing Some of the worst things that happen on the planet and then walking away that's journalist Nellie for her diet host of course correction a podcast presented by Doha debates and Qatar Foundation.

2 (12m 45s):
Now offer is part of a new generation of journalists who see the news as an opportunity to empower whether it's me trying to figure out how globalization has affected people where I'm from and I've want to stand in Kabul or challenging myself to figure out how much data and information I put out on the web. AB it's focused on trying to get the reality of these big gigantic problems down to an individual level because focusing on what we can solve decreases stress and improves mental health. Every single accomplishment is just it just makes you feel better. I'm hoping course correction is a little bit of shock to the system to make people realize the impact that we have be a part of the conversation for change.

2 (13m 31s):
Listen to course correction wherever you get your podcast.

1 (13m 41s):
There are all sorts of different kinds of people in the world, right? There are those who in times of great economic uncertainty want to be circumspect and then there are those who maybe want to apply for a loan. If you're caring revolving debt. That means you're not paying off your credit card every month and could be paying thousands of dollars in interest every year that you don't have to Lending Club would like to help you figure the whole thing out. If you go to Lending Club.com explained and tell them about yourself and how much you want to borrow pick the terms that are right for you and If you're approved for a loan, you're automatically going to get a bunch of money deposit into your bank account in as little as a few days. They've been helping people get on top of their debt since 2007 according to them and have given out millions of affordable fixed-rate personal loans.

1 (14m 21s):
You don't have to go to a banker open another high interest credit card go to London club.com / explained. If you are one of the people out there who are interested check your rate and minutes and borrow up to $40,000 that is lending club.com explained all loans made by web Bank. They're a member of the FDIC Equal Housing lender. Thanks.

2 (14m 47s):
It's

1 (14m 49s):
today explained. I'm Sean Rama's for him. You know what we haven't talked about in a while the election Tulsi gabbard somehow dropped out of the race yesterday. So now it's even more so officially Three super old guys running for the big job, which begs the question what happens if one of them gets covid-19 listener Linda emailed to ask what if one of them dies Ella Nelson at box has been thinking about that one to Linda.

2 (15m 14s):
So the answer is much clearer on the Republican side than the Democratic side because obviously we already have or republican incumbent president as well as a vice president who are already in place. So in the event that say, you know Trump got coronavirus or otherwise became unable to accept the Republican nomination. It could theoretically go to Mike Pence and the Democrats if a nominee were to get coronavirus before the Democratic National Convention takes place and the convention proceeds as normal, you know. Aren't necessarily bound to any particular candidate. So the delegates at the convention could potentially negotiate and debate over potential alternative nominees.

2 (15m 58s):
And then the majority at the convention could sort of choose who they want as the nominee going forward, but if a nominated candidates is to die after a convention the DNC would consult with high-level members of Congress. They would consult with other high-level members of the Party, like Governor's the Democratic Governors Association and there would be a group that would come together within the DNC to sort of choose who the nominee would be going forward and it's really important to note that this wouldn't necessarily be the Democratic vice presidential pick. It certainly could be but the DNC would have sort of more latitude to get together kind of confer among everybody and then ultimately choose a replacement nominee another

1 (16m 47s):
Related question we got from Ray in Australia was should the presidential election even really go ahead he wrote about concerns about Community spread at the polls in November and the concerned that Russia could get even more hacky. If we all went Evo

2 (17m 3s):
Ting, I think at this point is way too far off to say that the election is going to be canceled and I think that if if people were putting that out there, you know, it could be, you know, a big kind of constitutional crisis or crisis of democracy. I think that Instead people are focusing on ways that we can make sure that the election continues but to have contingencies in place like vote by mail so that people can still cast their ballots but not necessarily have to do it in a physical polling

1 (17m 30s):
place Katie from the Bronx tweeted with a question that didn't used to be political but has become so recently. How is the coronavirus outbreak going to affect the collection of the census for the answer? We reach out to an old friend of the show. This is Hans along. I'm a national correspondent for NPR covering the

2 (17m 47s):
people power and money behind the 2020 census and the coronavirus outbreak is definitely affecting the national headcount. The Census Bureau has postponed until April 1st all field operations. Meaning that training sessions for door knockers is postponed the count of people experiencing homelessness and living in shelters or living Outdoors that has been postponed so has door knocking in some American Indian Tribal territories as well as an operation that Involve workers leaving paper forms outside of homes

1 (18m 20s):
in Puerto Rico and

2 (18m 21s):
other areas recovering from natural disasters all that in-person activity on hold for the next two weeks. And that does resolve uncertainty about how the bureau is protecting its workers. But if throws off a very tight schedule to try to meet this constitutional mandate to get every person living in the u.s. Counted this year and the bureau right now is emphasizing that it needs the Public's help in needs as many people as possible to fill out a census form on their own either online at my 2020 census dot-gov by calling a toll-free number or mailing back a paper form if they receive one because the key here is that the more households that fellow form themselves now the less pressure on the bureau to try to bring onboard hundreds of thousands of workers during a Public Health crisis, the census already had a host of challenges to getting a good count the corner virus exacerbates a lot of those

1 (19m 14s):
challenges. That toll-free number for the census by the way is 8 4 4 3 3 0 2020 again 8 4 4 3 3 0 2 0 2 0 if you go to the site you can find numbers in about 15 other languages two hours of operation are 7 a.m. To 2 a.m. Eastern while we're exchanging phone numbers. Here's another one. We set up a voicemail operation for today explained listener questions at two zero two six eight eight five nine four. Or four if you want to get your voice on the show hit that number and we might feature you in the future again. It's two zero two six eight eight five.

1 (19m 55s):
Nine. Four four. Keep in touch. This last questions a question that I had and maybe it's a question that you have to how can I help I know people who are losing their jobs. There are many many more people who are doing even worse than that. People are sick. People are dying what can one of us do in this moment if we aren't hurting that badly and I thought I could ask Dillon Matthews because helping people is pretty much his beat at vaux Dylan. I should think first half Just like we don't know much about how this crisis is going to go in general. We don't know much about the best ways to help people yet.

1 (20m 35s):
Yeah, actually when writing up this sort of prep for this show. I wrote don't know where we get the answer to this one.

2 (20m 41s):
God question mark

1 (20m 43s):
God or Dylan down the hall Fillin. So yeah, so if you want to help people, I think the main thing to do is stay inside and Obey social distancing roles. I know that sounds Really cliche and you've probably heard it a million times, but it's really really important A good rule of thumb is that if you give to really effective Charities that do really important Health work, you can maybe save a human life for every two or three thousand dollars you spend and that's really good. That's that's a really good bang for your buck and with covid-19 social distancing is cheaper. You can save a human life just by not infecting people. You can save a human life by assuming that you're a passive

2 (21m 26s):
carrier

1 (21m 27s):
and Stay inside not being in crowded groups where you're at risk of transmitting and helping vulnerable people not get infected. But I think a lot of people who are social distancing like should they be giving blood should they be buying groceries and delivering them to the elderly who maybe are incapacitated or maybe are scared to go out right now because they might get sick giving blood is always good. I think if you have Community groups in your area like Meals on Wheels that are doing grocery. Delivery or other services for people who can't go out or who might not be physically mobile. That's a great thing that you can be doing. If you're interested in giving to people who are suffering from coronavirus with money.

1 (22m 12s):
If you're say anticipating the checks that the Trump Administration is going to be sending out probably in a few weeks and you think eh, I don't really need this check. Maybe this check should go to someone who needs a little more than I do. One thing you can do is donate to the group give directly. So this is a group of covered for many. Is I think they do great work and they specialize in giving cash to people who need it historically that's mostly meant people in really desperately poor areas of sub-Saharan Africa now give directly is starting to do cash transfers in the United States as coronavirus response. This is a new thing for them. But I think it's inspired by that same intuition that if you have money and if you get a check and you don't need it, it should go to someone who does need it.

1 (22m 54s):
Can I add one thing Dylan, please? Do I just want to stress that? Kindness can be contagious and these moments where we're all struggling in this thing together. I mean I go to the grocery store in DC. There's a lady behind me with a big hot pizza that she was clearly trying to take to some hungry kids somewhere. So I just said hey go ahead of me. You just have one pizza and then it like had this domino effect where the lady in front of me was like, yeah go in front of me to and then all of a sudden she's at the front of the line and she got to get out and take that pizza to her hungry kids and mean while I talk to my friends in New York City and they say like the gross Store is a nightmare people are mean people are pushy. People are forgetting each other's humanity.

1 (23m 35s):
And I just want to stress the little act of kindness can go a long way in moments like these for sure. I always like the David Foster Wallace lying that you have a choice in New York when you're on the road to assume that the guy who cut you off is is a horrible horrible person or to think maybe he had a reason for doing that and I don't really understand what he's going through and when you're interacting with people at the grocery store, Or or trying to get a test for yourself and in the waiting room at an ER just assume that other people are going through things too that you have a choice to assume the worst or assume the best of them and we're all going to get through this better if we assume the best of each other. You need to stay

2 (24m 17s):
six feet away six feet away

1 (24m 22s):
today explained is part of the VOX media podcast Network. The team is well over six feet away from each other right now. We're putting this podcast together remotely from our homes in and around Washington DC the team includes Halima Shah Bridget McCarthy. I'm gonna also body and Jillian Weinberger who all done a ton of work to help me answer these questions today the theme the dream should Row has the nightmare job of making our show sound good, even though none of us are using Studios anymore. Not me. Not any of our guests. Thank you so much a theme Cecilia Les is checking facts from San Francisco and couldn't be more ready for the weekend new album. It dropped today. The mysterious brake master cylinder would like all the partying spring breaker Bros in Florida to just stop already and no I'm hassenfeld wrote six feet away, which is gonna win the

2 (25m 12s):
Grammy.

1 (25m 16s):
Big big special thanks to Allison Rocky Liz Nelson Lauren cats and Jos Fang for all of their help with the song If you're looking for fun quarantine things to do this weekend or in the coming weeks make a cover or do the dance find the original video and song at vox.com today explained and don't forget to share your versions using the hashtag six feet away song. The one you're hearing right now is from Owen plant who posted it almost immediately. We after we published the song last night. We were all astonished on the team Owen. Thank you. We love it. You can find lots of music from Owen on YouTube just search for Owen like Owen and plants like

2 (25m 55s):
philodendron

1 (26m 9s):
6 feet away.