1 (4s):
This has all completely taken over my life.

2 (7s):
I have to plan out my days and weeks in terms of energy expenditure. Like it's a limited and finite resource.

3 (14s):
I really wish more people were talking about long COVID.

1 (17s):
It's like my whole life has trunk at the cottons Waller.

4 (24s):
I didn't need any medications at all before COVID I had no idea what life would long-term chronic illness was like before

5 (32s):
You have questions about long COVID. We have some answers from a doctor. What we know what we don't know and how we can help that's coming up on today. Explained

3 (42s):
There are millions of people like me who are living with this who have been looking for answers for over two years now.

1 (49s):
So I haven't completely given up hope. It's just hard to hold on to it.

5 (1m 6s):
It's today explained up new well king possibly the most important thing to understand about long COVID is that there is at this point, not even an agreed upon definition of what it is,

6 (1m 17s):
You know, we're still learning and we're trying to figure out what's going to be best for long COVID. We're just still learning what's happening in the body.

5 (1m 25s):
Doctors have learned somethings. And so to answer your questions, we called a doctor who has lots of experience with long COVID.

6 (1m 31s):
My name is Monica Verde scope Gutierrez. I am the chair of rehabilitation medicine at the university of Texas health science center at San Antonio. Here, I have a practice where I take care of patients who are struggling with the effects of long COVID

5 (1m 48s):
Dr. Gutierrez. We asked our listeners for their questions about COVID. Do you mind if I post some of them to you help the listeners out?

6 (1m 54s):
Sure.

7 (1m 56s):
Hi, my name is <inaudible>. I live in San Jose, California. What a long COVID symptoms and how they're different from quote-unquote regular COVID.

6 (2m 5s):
So what I say is, if I've seen a patient with long COVID, I've seen one patient with long COVID because the symptoms are so different. Meaning if you look at some of the studies looking at what are the symptoms of patients with long COVID, some of them have 200 symptoms that they're choosing from, but probably the most common thing is fatigue. And we hear about this overwhelming debilitating fatigue. That is not just, oh, I'm tired because I work full time and I try to work out and I don't sleep as much kind of thing, but no, this is truly a debilitating fatigue, general

8 (2m 41s):
Lack of energy.

3 (2m 42s):
I'll sometimes wake up as many as 15 to 18 times a night.

2 (2m 48s):
Exhausting.

6 (2m 50s):
I had one patient that had had cancer before. And this person told me that their fatigue from COVID was a hundred times worse than from when they had cancer. Other things that you might hear patients say is brain fog. The brain fog can be different things. It could be concentration issues

1 (3m 7s):
And focusing confusion.

6 (3m 9s):
I hear a lot of difficulty finding words, like really simple words, just can't come to people's minds that they would be able to say before memory issues, processing issues,

2 (3m 20s):
I had trouble driving and forget entire conversations that I had with my siblings or plots to movies that I had watched

9 (3m 28s):
The scrolling on my cell phone, trying to text friends would induce motion sickness, nausea, headaches,

6 (3m 35s):
Being able to handle as much work that they could do before

10 (3m 38s):
I began to get migraine headaches that I'd never had before in my life,

6 (3m 43s):
Pain and joints, back pain, numbness, tingling,

2 (3m 47s):
Body aches, chills, headaches,

6 (3m 50s):
Sore throat,

1 (3m 51s):
Lack of appetite, dizziness.

6 (3m 53s):
The other thing that we see a lot is post exertional malaise. And so what that is is when someone does an activity that may have been, you know, pre COVID, they would easily do something, but it actually causes afterwards a crash.

3 (4m 10s):
Anything that involves quick bursts of energy is almost completely off the table.

1 (4m 17s):
I know I have to stay under 3000 steps a day or I'll trigger a crash the next day.

6 (4m 25s):
And that's one of the Cardinal symptoms of, of long COVID. And also if myalgic encephalomyelitis or chronic fatigue syndrome. So we're seeing more studies that show that some of these patients with long COVID are meeting some of the criteria for Emmy CFS, as it's called. The other thing is cardiac symptoms. So their heart rate might start racing.

2 (4m 49s):
The heart rate would jump up to one 60. If I got up to get myself a glass of water,

6 (4m 54s):
Some patients might develop clots. Then there's also the respiratory complaints. So shortness of breath, not able to do activities that they're doing before. Exercising being very difficult. And you can say a system of the body and probably come up with a symptom that someone has that's related to long COVID. We're just seeing a lot of things across the board.

11 (5m 20s):
My name is Susan <inaudible> from Petaluma, California. What are the pre-existing conditions that make it more likely for a person to end up with long COVID

6 (5m 32s):
We're still learning, but things that we know is people who are overweight is at risk people. Who've had a history of diabetes or at risk people who have a history of asthma. If you were hospitalized, if you were in the ICU, you're intubated, you're gonna more likely have longer term symptoms than patients who had mild disease, but you could still have mild disease beat thin, be without asthma and get long COVID. The other thing is if patients have Epstein-Barr virus reactivation, so that's the virus that causes mano. A lot of people have had it in the past and COVID can trigger a reactivation of that.

5 (6m 13s):
If you do get COVID and here we're asking for the people who haven't had it yet, is there anything you can do to keep it from becoming long COVID

6 (6m 21s):
When I'm telling people, my friends has just like take care of yourself when you have COVID don't overdo it. Try to get healthy, try not to push yourself too much, because there is literature that says, you know, people who push themselves too much, then end up not doing as well. So I just tell people, like allow yourself to get better, allow yourself to rest, allow yourself that period of time to make sure that you get over COVID and don't try to push through it or do too much.

10 (6m 53s):
My name is Alita ILO, and I'm in very Vermont. For those of us who are already experiencing the effects of long COVID what additional complications or long-term consequences could potentially be triggered by a second COVID infection.

6 (7m 10s):
So there is now studies that show that if you have re-infection that it's not good, there's going to be more morbidity. There is more and more totality. These patients have more symptoms. They have more visits to their physician's office in the next months, you know, new development of diseases. I mean, some of this study came out of the VA. And so we know that population is mostly a little bit older, but you know, they have this data also from populations that are younger as well. So you do not want to continue to get COVID again,

12 (7m 43s):
My name is Eric honor, and I'm in Fairfax, Virginia, if I'm fully vaccinated and I get COVID then does my vaccination mean that I'm less likely to develop long COVID?

6 (7m 52s):
The answer is yes, but you can still be at risk of getting lung COVID, even if you're vaccinated, but I'm still encouraging vaccinations. Cause they're doing their job as far as preventing severe disease and death.

3 (8m 5s):
My name is Greg Rosen and I live in Baltimore, Maryland. I've had the unfortunate experience of dealing with long COVID since June, 2020. I dealt with debilitating symptoms for nearly two years until doctors listened to me and believe me and I got the treatments I needed. What should doctors and medical students understand about long COVID so that other patients don't feel like they are being gaslit by their doctors?

6 (8m 27s):
I know I'm a big fan of, we have to believe patients. So I think for patients continue to find someone that is going to believe you and want to help, or at least realize what their limitations are and send you to someone who may have more experience. And then for clinicians, just please believe your patients. And then the other thing is our probably our medical system needs to be able to acknowledge and better treat patients with chronic conditions is in general, a fee for service model means, oh, I need to just see as many patients as quickly as possible to make money. It doesn't reward physicians who need to take an hour with a patient to work through, you know, 10 plus symptoms and issues that they have.

13 (9m 13s):
My name is mark and I live in pedagogy, Argentina, my wife and I contracted COVID in May, 2021, the most obvious ongoing symptom of long COVID that we have is a loss of smell. It's not so much a loss of smell as just a general confusion and a rearrangement of the way we perceive smells and the associations that we make with them to catch a bug that has the potential to drastically change. One's perception of reality seems pretty weird. It makes me wonder just how much we really do know about the long-term effects of COVID. Is this something that's going to get better over time? Is it something that we're going to have to deal with for the rest of our lives?

5 (9m 50s):
Do we have any sense of when these symptoms go away

6 (9m 53s):
In some patients, especially if they had fewer symptoms, their symptoms seem to go away relatively sooner. And then there are other patients, especially more symptoms. It was going to last longer. So we need to see we're building this plane while we're flying it. We're seeing what's happening in real time to people with long COVID and some of them, it continues to impact them from the beginning of the pandemic.

5 (10m 20s):
What's one thing that we don't currently know about long COVID that's really bugging you. What's one thing that if you could snap your fingers and know the answer, you would want to know the answer to

6 (10m 32s):
Maybe one thing I do want right away is let's get treatment trials started right away. If there is evidence of viral persistence, can we try the antivirals? I really wish we magically had a biomarker already that we could check and just know on people right away.

5 (10m 47s):
So that if I come in, there's some biomarker in me that tells you my doctor, oh, Noel's got long. COVID

6 (10m 53s):
Exactly.

0 (10m 57s):
What

5 (10m 57s):
Is your best advice for people who have long COVID and who are finding it really, really hard to live with

6 (11m 4s):
That we're working on it as fast as we can. And I know it's not fast enough for you, but I don't want them to give up hope that you know, something can be done. I want them to be able to try to find some help. And sometimes the best help they get is from the community of people with lung COVID because it's an amazing community, full of advocates, full of people who have so much knowledge about what's going on with lung COVID. So find a community, find clinicians and practitioners who believe in you and her willing to try to help you as much as possible. And let's not give up and all work on it together.

5 (11m 44s):
Coming up, people who have long COVID are taking action. They're organizing. They're trying to get disability laws changed. That's all next Today's show is sponsored by Canva branding. Canva believes is its own language. Take our show. When you go to listen on whatever app you use, you see our logo with that bright, yellow and black. That's the same color as a bunch of other Vox podcasts. And whether it's our show or unexplainable or the weeds, it helps listeners know that they're listening to a Voxer story and branding folks. If you want to make visuals for your company that look consistent, professional and beautiful canvas for teams would like to help.

5 (12m 30s):
You will get access to endless templates and fonts for video presentations, visual assets and websites. You can add your brands, logos, fonts, and colors to everything you make. Plus Canva for teams can also help you streamline your social media content. I am told you can plan, create and share directly to all your channels from one place. You can even schedule posts ahead of time. All inside Canva for teams, you can collaborate with Canva for teams. Right now you can get a 45 day extended trial. When you go to canva.me/explained that's C a N V a dot Emmy slash explained for a free 45 day extended trial, canva.me/explained

14 (13m 15s):
Brain fog, anxiety, depression, according to social media, you can cure all of them by eating

15 (13m 22s):
Unsurprisingly social media. Isn't exactly right, but there is some really exciting new science showing that what you eat can affect your mental health that what's going on in your gut literally changes your brain chemistry.

14 (13m 34s):
And that's exactly what we're getting to the bottom of on this week's episode of gastropod, the podcast that looks at food through the lens of science and history, I'm NYCLA Twitter,

15 (13m 43s):
And I'm Cynthia Graber. And this episode, we go deep to sort out the science from the social media hype. It's a story that involves some very sad mice and a cutting edge, us military experiment, but it's also news. We can all use.

14 (13m 56s):
Should you be eating to combat anxiety, depression, and more follow gastropod and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

16 (14m 8s):
You're listening to today.

5 (14m 11s):
We're back with long.

17 (14m 13s):
I got it in March, 2020 on March 25th. It was in the first wave. One of the original long haulers. My name is Hannah Davis and I'm a co-founder of the patient led research collaborative, which is a group of long COVID patients that also researches on COVID. I, you know, I got sick and I wasn't actually too concerned because, you know, I was in my early thirties, I had, I really was convinced it would be two weeks and then I would be recovered, you know, which was the narrative that was being pushed at the time. I had really bad brain fog from the beginning. I basically completely lost my memory.

17 (14m 54s):
I lost all of my passwords and I had a, a low grade fever for 90 days. I had complete numbness and in my arms and hands, I was given a pots diagnosis, which is basically dysfunction of the autonomic nervous system, which is pretty common in lung COVID patients. I'm still not recovered. I still have pretty bad. Cognitive impairment still have tinnitus insomnia. So I'm basically not able to walk more than 15 or 20 minutes a day. And I've of course become extremely involved with this patient community and trying to do more activism because we see so many people basically going through the exact same thing that I've gone through.

17 (15m 37s):
And we, at this point know that many people with non COVID don't recover. And so the implications for our society are pretty massive

5 (15m 49s):
Long COVID ended. Hannah's previous career.

17 (15m 52s):
I used to work in artificial intelligence. I did a lot with generative machine learning models. All of that is pretty foreign to me. Now I don't have the capacity I used to. I'm very lucky that I have a partner who is able to work full time and has supported me through most of this. I now work with the patient led research collaborative. We recently got some grants that allow part of our team to be paid. But I, I feel like I'm only able to work with this group because they are so accommodating. They, you know, it's a, it's a completely remote group. We make our own schedules. We take as much time off as we need right now, we are doing a paper on mental health.

17 (16m 34s):
We did a really large systematic paper in 2020 on the multiple symptoms of long COVID and also the timelines like the trajectories, which symptoms resolve, which ones don't and also stigma and the way healthcare and the way providers and the community treats long haulers. We're working on a paper on re-infection, we're working on a paper on long COVID in lower and middle income countries working on a project phenotyping lung COVID, which means, you know, making different clusters of long COVID and seeing the patterns that people fall into. And more recently, we received several million dollars from a cryptocurrency founder that allows us to actually provide grants to external researchers.

17 (17m 25s):
So these are people who have more resources than we do, who can work with biomedical samples and things like that. And so we're actually in a position now to be giving out funding for research, which is really helpful, but we also do a lot of patient engagement. This is like a, a long history of patient involvement in research. You know, there was a lot of it in the HIV aids movement. There's been a lot of it in MEC EFS movement, which are both obviously post-viral conditions.

5 (17m 54s):
What do we still need to learn about long COVID? What are, what are the questions you want answered? Soon?

17 (18m 1s):
One thing we see a lot of is there is a amazing community of post-fire researchers and these people are not confused by long COVID. They don't describe lung COVID as a mystery. They understand what happens after viruses. They knew this was coming. So I would say that there needs to be a general public education program on post viral illness. What that looks like, how often it is, what to look for. But more specifically, I think we don't know for sure, a lot of solid treatments. So there's a couple major theories about what causes these kinds of conditions. And based on those theories, there are a multitude of treatments to trial.

17 (18m 44s):
So we really need a large scale clinical trial program to be able to recommend or not recommend each of those treatments while taking into consideration. What point in the illness the treatments are implemented because that's a factor.

5 (19m 1s):
So that's the research that needs to be done. I mean, from your perspective, what are the laws that need to change?

17 (19m 9s):
We absolutely need legislation that provides provider education and public education. One of the things that has shocked me the most is that only 6% of medical schools fully teach post viral illness. This is obviously something that needs to change after COVID. And the lack of understanding of post viral illness has created kind of bad long COVID clinics. And a lot of the long COVID clinics really need a improvement grounded in this historical and scientific knowledge. So I think, you know, legislation that funds really high quality clinics is really vital.

17 (19m 53s):
And the other thing of course is treatment. If we start clinical trials, now we're still are not going to see the outcomes of those trials for several years. So that would be my second huge priority.

5 (20m 5s):
Are you aware of any legislation being proposed to address those changes you'd like to see?

17 (20m 12s):
Yes. There's a couple, there's the treat long COVID act

18 (20m 17s):
Lawmakers, including representative Ayana Presley and Senator ed Markey are also behind legislation to address long COVID introducing versions of the treat long COVID act in both the house and the Senate

17 (20m 30s):
Would authorize HHS to award grants up to 2 million to healthcare providers, which would include community health centers. And there's also the care for long COVID act.

19 (20m 43s):
Senator Tim Kaine, who has lingering nerve issues due to COVID has introduced the care for long COVID act.

17 (20m 50s):
So that's more focusing on education and dissemination of information on lung COVID and also providing legal and social service assistant for people with long Kopin.

18 (21m 1s):
It's unclear whether the legislation will get the support it needs to pass

5 (21m 6s):
In terms of disability accommodations that you'd like to see in workplaces, give me the sort of top four or five that you think could really be life-changing for people with long COVID.

17 (21m 17s):
I think the first is that as of now we have no treatments for long COVID. The only thing we know that is even close to a treatment is early rest and pacing. So we know that early rest in the first month or two is possibly preventative of a more severe and more longterm long COVID. And we see so many employers rushing people to get back to work. We see so many people, you know, trying to exercise just a week or two after they got their COVID infection and trying to push through, you know, that's the big term that everyone tries to push through. And that's actually really harmful and really dangerous to getting this more severe form of long COVID.

17 (22m 3s):
So allowing not only adequate time off, but extensive time off, you know, allowing people to take six to eight weeks off, if they need to is really important. And then besides that, I would say working remotely and having a flexible schedule, a lot of people with long COVID, especially the form of myalgic encephalomyelitis on COVID have reverse sleep schedules. So you're up much later and you sleep much later. One of the major theories behind this illness is that there is a dysfunction in the way the brain actually drains at night. And this mechanism of brain drainage happens the most when you're sleeping.

17 (22m 48s):
So sleep is so key. And a lot of people, people who take care of kids, people who are working don't have the ability to adjust their sleep schedule. Even though it's one of the most important things. From our standpoint, we are looking at a future where just an increasing number of people are getting on COVID every year. And there's just no accommodation. There's nothing. I kicked myself all of the time because I am certain, I got COVID at the grocery store in mid-March when the CDC was saying, we don't need masks. That never made sense.

17 (23m 29s):
It don't know why I just listened to them, but I see that same thing happening right now. We should be masking everywhere. We should be implementing extremely high quality ventilation systems everywhere. I feel like people think that they are fine because this narrative of a vaccine only approach has really been pushed on us. But most studies that look at this are showing people who are vaccinated are still getting along COVID and there's a false safety to have if you had COVID once and got through it, okay. There's no reason to think re-infection are safer or not going to lead to long COVID.

17 (24m 12s):
We know they do. So I would say that reevaluate your risk level, reimplement, your safety procedures. Don't go anywhere. There are crowds. We're not protecting our society. And we are going to learn the hard way. I think in a couple of years, we are going to be a much, much sicker society. And this is all going to be pretty axiomatic. And maybe there will be protections put in place then, but right now you can only protect yourself. If you are putting these protections into place yourself, like no one is protecting us.

5 (24m 53s):
Henna Davis she's co-founder of the patient led research collaborative for long COVID. Earlier in the show, we talked to Dr. Monica Verduzco Gutierrez at the university of Texas health science center at San Antonio. Thank you sincerely to all of the listeners who sent us their questions and stories about long COVID. We wished we could have answered all of them. We appreciate you reaching out. Today's show was produced by Avishai artsy. It was fact checked by Serena Solon and Amanda Llewellyn. It was engineered by a famous Shapiro. Matthew collect edited the show I'm Noel king it's today explained.