3 (0s):
It's Friday, March 27th, 2020 and beaudreau has come down with covid-19. I'm Sean Rama's for him. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained the United Kingdom's prime minister Boris Johnson has tested positive. He says he has mild symptoms and will continue to lead the kingdom while in self-isolation in Italy almost 1000 people have died as a result of covid-19 in a single day. That's the highest daily death toll yet and brings Italy's National death toll close to 10,000 higher than anywhere else in the world.

3 (42s):
Only a few people have died at this point in South Africa, but there's been a surge in confirmed cases there. It's now the center of the pandemic on the African continent with more than a thousand cases the government ordered most of South Africa's 59 million people to stay at home for the next three weeks. It's the biggest Stay at home order on the continent, but it's the United States that now has the most confirmed covid-19 cases in the world almost 100,000 people here are known to be infected. The actual number of confirmed cases again is surely much higher than that. According to CNN. Michigan is seeing a huge surge in cases from something like 300 last week to something like 3,000 confirmed cases this week cities and states around the country are still struggling with critical shortages of medical supplies.

3 (1m 30s):
Eyes and protective equipment for health care workers. The president now appears to be pushing for American industry to make ventilators at least on Twitter. He tweeted earlier today General Motors must immediately open their stupid lie abandoned Lordstown plant in Ohio or some other plant and start making ventilators now Ford get going on ventilators fast at General Motors at Ford. There were a lot of all caps moments peppered throughout their he seems like he's handling this well, But it's not all negative millions of people across the United Kingdom took to their balconies and doorsteps and car horns on Thursday to applaud in unison the work of the National Health Service and you two can show your appreciation for your Healthcare sanitation grocery store and delivery workers restaurant workers everyone.

3 (2m 18s):
I'm sure every little bit helps. If you've got questions about the coronavirus pandemic will try and answer them tweet at today underscore explained her at Aramis firm email today. Explain it box.com or call. 0 2 6 8 8 5 9 4 4 keep in touch, but please don't touch.

2 (2m 46s):
This episode is brought to you by New Country Crock plant butter a dairy-free plant-based butter made with ingredients like olive oil avocado oil and almond oil you can substitute plant butter sticks for dairy butter in any of your favorite recipes because it tastes cooks and bakes just like butter. It's so delicious. Even butter lovers. Love it Country Crock plant butter is available at stores like Walmart Kroger to find a store near you visit Country Crock. dot-com plant - butter globally offices are closed and we're all practicing social distancing but one major way we're staying in touch with family friends and co-workers is through Zoom want to know more about the company and the leader behind the brand keeping us all connected.

2 (3m 34s):
Then you have to subscribe to 0-2 IPO a podcast from OCTA long before we all started taking video calls from 9 to 5 0 to IPO

3 (3m 42s):
interviewed Zoom founder Eric you on where he shared his journey and advice when you watch printers in the space subscribe to 0-2 IPO

2 (3m 50s):
To hear this episode and

3 (3m 52s):
catch up on season 1 of 0 to IPO. Last Friday, we tried something new on today explained. We opened up the show to your questions. We talked about TP and about sex and how to help others during this crisis today. We thought we'd try it again because your questions keep coming via Twitter via email and our Nifty new listener voicemail

2 (4m 28s):
line. Hi, my name is Grace. I'm calling in from San Francisco. For Nia, my question is why are so many people not paying attention to these shelter-in-place warning? I went to the the worst part one of the big parks in the city yesterday to do like a quick yoga and like hit glass off of this app on my phone that I downloaded. So it wasn't just stuck inside all day and I noticed that while there were a lot of people doing something similar going outside for walks there also seemed to be a good number of people still, you know, Hang out in big groups and not maintaining that social distancing one of those people thinking. Yeah, I think a lot of people probably think that they're

3 (5m 10s):
Invincible. We called Eleanor Cummins for an answer. She's assigned stir analyst based in New York

2 (5m 14s):
City. I also live really near a park. I live right on Prospect Park in Brooklyn, and I've been taking daily walks, which has been so great for my mental health. I imagine a lot of the people you're seeing are younger adults who have probably heard Based on data coming out of China that younger people aren't as Acceptable to the coronavirus that this is really a disease that affects people 60 and older but you know, there's new data coming out that suggests that in the United States 38% of people hospitalized with the coronavirus are under the age of 55 and they probably also are experiencing some, you know, basic human psychology, right like the optimism bias, which is this idea that's really pervasive that you are the exception to the rule.

2 (5m 58s):
So things that happen to other people that are terrible won't happen to you. You that's really hard to battle

3 (6m 4s):
and even more so when the president saying the Cure can't be worse than the problem while maybe your Governor or your mayor saying shelter-in-place lock it down. These are mixed messages.

2 (6m 15s):
Next messages have definitely been a big problem with the coronavirus. So a lot of state and local officials have been really clear on this threat from the beginning but a lot of people are following the national discourse and they're hearing messages from President Trump and the White House that have kind of consistently Underplayed the severity of this illness. And so I think that that has been a real contributor to people sort of taking this a little bit more casually than they should be and a lot of people have been pretty upset about what they see as an impingement upon their freedom and their Liberty and that is you know, a completely valid response to some of this this is something that most people in the United States have never experienced in their lifetimes, but that being said what we're dealing with here is not a sort of traditional personally held Out of morals or ethics what we're dealing with is a public health ethics, which is a completely different Paradigm for thinking through these problems.

2 (7m 10s):
So if I say, you know, I have the right to do these things. This is about my personal Liberty a public health ethicist would say, well I have the right to not be infected by you and that's sort of the the Paradigm that we have to think through is the risk we pose to each other and the rights of other people not just our personal

3 (7m 26s):
rights Eleanor Cummins. Wrote about why people aren't social distancing for Vox for piece is titled. I'll do what I want why the people ignoring social distancing orders just won't listen you can find it in vox.com. She also writes a newsletter about death called the pine Overcoat. You can find a link on our website Eleanor Cummins.com many of you wrote in with medical questions. And while we're not in the business of giving medical advice check local listings for a medical professional. We did find a doctor With answers to some of your more technical questions, but I'm stuck Jason Farley.

3 (8m 7s):
I'm Anna professor at the Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing and a nurse practitioner in the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine first up an email from John. What are the differences in people that allow some to walk around a symptomatically and lay others flat out on the floor in all honesty. We don't actually know what makes some people even young people develop symptoms and others do not at this point. We have a lot of theories and a lot of hypotheses first and foremost. We believe that children are exposed to multiple coronavirus has routinely particularly when they're in around a lot of other children in daycare and school like settings. So with coronavirus being one of the viruses that cause the common cold it is possible that repeated exposures have provided some level of protection for our youngest kids.

3 (8m 57s):
We also think that that might have some level of protection for younger adults. So we do know that as we age our immune system is less responsive. And so you add older age and a slightly less well functioning immune system with medical comorbidity like heart disease or respiratory disease and you've set the stage for The Perfect Storm another listener Kendra emailed to ask about obesity. She wrote I'm wondering if obesity is likely to cause complications in young or otherwise healthy individuals who act the coronavirus both Italy and China have relatively low obesity rates as compared to most of the US and I'm wondering if that could lead to a higher death toll for Americans obesity does put people at greater risk of having cardiovascular and or respiratory health conditions that might increase their risk of a negative outcome with coronavirus.

3 (9m 55s):
So obesity increases your risk of the disease has that when you get Coronavirus, If you have those diseases ultimately result in a bad outcome, but obesity by itself is not a risk factor for bad outcome. So let's say you got two adults both of which are overweight one with who's overweight and has hypertension and maybe another form of cardiovascular disease and or respiratory condition that person at the same way to someone else who does not have those conditions is that greater risk because of the other conditions that obesity caused not because of obesity itself and then one question we've gotten over and over once you get covid-19.

3 (10m 42s):
Do you have immunity

2 (10m 43s):
or can you

3 (10m 45s):
get it again? If and when you get over it? Yeah immunity is one of our most important questions right now. Do you get it? We think you will how long will it last we don't actually know but we're hopeful that it will last, you know through you know. Potentially up to a year maybe longer but we do believe as like most respiratory illnesses is that once you've recovered you do develop some level of protective antibody and we're trying to figure out and trying to explore how long that antibody will last related Hunter and Kim both emailed to ask how long you're contagious after you get it potential for spread after symptom resolution has been shown.

3 (11m 29s):
We have a couple of the original patients. Who came Back from Wuhan who developed active symptoms and we know from one of the patients. It was a 17 year-old male. He was positive on his test 14 days from the time his symptoms started. We've also heard from reports of patients who were on the cruise ship whose viral cultures remained positive for weeks, even though their symptoms had resolved. So the question is is one symptoms resolved. Are you developing antibody are those antibodies protecting you right or will they show us that you have recovered?

3 (12m 11s):
That's one thing we don't know yet whether or not it will coincide with also not being able to transmit for a certain period of time. So right now what we would recommend and what we've been suggesting to everyone is that if you become symptomatic, you self quarantine for a minimum of 14 days and that's based on the available evidence that we have at this point lastly. Steven emailed to say I've given blood all my life and I know my own negative blood is needed but no one addresses the question of coronavirus in donated blood. I have no symptoms but like most I have not been tested and may be positive but asymptomatic. How does American Red Cross ensure the safety of the blood supply so first and foremost if you have any symptoms at all don't donate blood if you do donate blood and you possibly had coronavirus it is very unlikely that you would be able to transmit Coronavirus.

3 (13m 2s):
We don't believe coronavirus is a virus that will be transmitted via blood. It is a respiratory virus on the initial evaluations of patients from Wuhan we found no evidence of virus after symptom onset. Now that's important. No evidence of virus suggest that it would be very low likelihood of transmission in the bloodstream and after symptom onset would be after someone had developed a fever cough and other symptoms of a flu-like illness, which would be something that would Screen you out from donating blood. Anyway, finally, we are experiencing a very large shortage of blood throughout the US and around the world. And so we need people to be donating blood who are asymptomatic fit and Norma meet normal blood donation criteria before we let the doc go we asked him what the biggest question on his mind has been lately.

3 (13m 55s):
The principal question is will we be back to work right now by Easter the prevailing epidemiology chest that that is not a realistic timeline right now. We are continuing to see cases increase in New York and around the country and I think in terms of the estimates of when case numbers might Peak is all based on modeling and when we do mathematical modeling to try to make estimates or really good educated guesses of how an epidemic will continue to you know, respond to all the things that we're doing to try to prevent it. It's hard to know what Assumptions of any model is but in general the estimates that I've seen agree with some time, you know may to June timeline.

3 (14m 43s):
But it's allergy season. We're moving into the spring and so many people give be getting upper respiratory symptoms from just general seasonal allergies. And so we also need to be you know cognizant that there are many reasons why people cough or sneeze that are not coronavirus related and just everyone take a deep breath and know that testing is coming not only for the virus itself, but also for antibodies to show that we have, you know, overcome the infection and hopefully develop some level of immunity. So I think that will help to allay a lot of Spheres once that testing is available and open and available widely. I'm going to take a deep breath now.

3 (15m 25s):
Dr. Jason Farley is a professor of Nursing and infectious disease trained nurse epidemiologist and a nurse practitioner in the division of infectious diseases at the Johns Hopkins School of Nursing and Medicine more of your questions coming after the break.

2 (15m 53s):
Tech has consequences and recode by Vox is exploring them all with the new multi-platform journalism project called open sourced through videos and articles open-source to explore and demystify controversial issues surrounding technology everything from facial recognition and surveillance to how add micro-targeting will affect the 2020 election. The project is supported by omidyar Network a Global Network of innovators entrepreneurs and technologists. And to addressing the most critical economic technological and societal issues of our time check out open sourced at vox.com open-sourced find out everything you need to know about the hidden consequences of tech box.com open sourced.

2 (16m 42s):
This is Advertiser content climate change the global Refugee crisis cybercrime. The big issues are huge and we're just a notification away from more bad news. It's leading to something called headline stress disorder and the first notable spike in stress in a decade and a decade ago. We were knee-deep in a global recession. So why does scrolling through a Newsfeed leave us feeling powerless anxious even afraid? We just get a little tired of seeing some of the worst things that happen on the planet and then walking away that's journalist Nellie for her diet host of course correction a podcast presented by Doha debates and Qatar Foundation.

2 (17m 23s):
Now, the fur is part of a new generation of journalists who see the news as an opportunity to empower whether it's me trying to figure out how globalization has affected people where I'm from and I've want to stand in Kabul or challenging myself to figure out how much Data and information. I put out on the web. It's focused on trying to get the reality of these big gigantic problems down to an individual level because focusing on what we can solve decreases stress and improves mental health. Every single accomplishment is just it just makes you feel better. I'm hoping course correction is a little bit of shock to the system to make people realize the impact that we have be a part of the conversation for change.

2 (18m 8s):
Listen to course correction wherever you get your

3 (18m 11s):
podcasts. Okay, we're back to the show. It's today explained. I'm Sean

2 (18m 24s):
ramas room and last week. I took a walk to a close by

3 (18m 28s):
Park to talk about social distancing with vaux's science reporter Brian Resnick and I promised him we'd do it again. And here we are guess who's here? Hey Sean, we are keeping six feet away as the song says, but we are also answering questions starting with a voicemail love voicemail. Here we go.

2 (18m 51s):
Hello. This is Sophia from Bloomington Indiana. I work in the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry.

3 (18m 59s):
My question is related to what does essential mean

2 (19m 3s):
who qualifies as essential.

3 (19m 6s):
I know that health care

2 (19m 7s):
workers and even pharmacies and groceries

3 (19m 11s):
count. I know that my industry will count

2 (19m 15s):
but for me to be able to go to work, I will require a nanny. So is that Nanny now an essential?

3 (19m 20s):
- yeah, I mean you've answered most of your question in your question that grocery stores pharmacies Healthcare centers. Those are all essential workplaces. But actually this is not necessarily a nationwide technical term. Every area is going to have to decide what it's essential workers are so whether child care providers are essential or not might depend on your area, but I do know a lot of child care centers daycare centers have been closed. Down and have been deemed non-essential Most states and District of Columbia are considering liquor stores to be essential but Pennsylvania has not so kind of sucks to be in Pierre right now and speaking of variation from state-to-state Brian.

3 (20m 5s):
We got a question from Emma in Portland who emailed to ask shelter-in-place stay-at-home lockdown. What's the difference what's allowed and what should we expect? She also attached a picture of Her dog scoop who has been training his whole life for a quote having me home for days at a time. Can I see the photo the dog scoop? I want to see scoop. Here's scoop. It's like a dog. He looks like you know when the dogs are in there, like I'm not sure if I want to be awake right now and you just want to pet them only one eye is showing because the other ones knee-deep in a comforter what a Scoops mom want to know Emma and Portland would like to know shelter-in-place.

3 (20m 50s):
Stay-at-home locked down. What's the difference? What's allowed and what should we expect? Okay, this is another one where at least two mics understanding all these terms are interchangeable and all these terms might mean something different depending on where you live. But you know, the thing is the effect is the same the effect is really think about like do I really need to leave the house do I really need to go there? And actually the nice thing about this is a lot of our decisions have now been made for us. Are we going to answer? Like we don't know for every question cuz I feel a little bad. I don't know Brian are we or not? We don't know but there's like I feel like everyone wants this like beautiful pristine.

3 (21m 30s):
We're living in a pandemic here like the terms to know the things to do and we're all learning at the same time and people are hearing slightly different things. But you know at the end of the day the message is the same stay home. Stay safe. Stay healthy. It's sad because I think I'm about to ask you a question that you won't know the answer to but here we go it comes From Noah via email, how are celebrities like Idris Elba and senators getting tested when they are not symptomatic or don't have all the symptoms and seemingly everyone else gets turned away from testing and just told to stay home unless they're getting really really sick. It does seem that in America celebrities get what celebrities want.

3 (22m 14s):
We should add that Idris. Elba is not American and probably got tested out in the UK. Idea where he is also. Sorry. No, I don't really know the answer to this question. Do you know who interests elbows? Yeah, I do he was he was going to be James Bond a thousand times and never never was and maybe will be one day Uptown problems. If I ever heard of one, huh, you know something that we are seeing which is disconcerting. There are some hoarding going on of medical supplies and doctors even prescribing their families chloroquine, which was that drug that was hyped up by the Trump Administration, but there was no evidence behind it to say it works or not. And so, you know, you do see in a situation like this inequalities that arise and yeah, so is it unfair if some doctors some dentist can write a prescription for chloroquine for their family when like people with lupus who get this medicine prescribed for them to treat their chronic illness cannot so I think like the answer to your question is basically like America is a land of inequalities and like certain people will always find ways.

3 (23m 20s):
Is to take advantage of that. Okay, here's one from Sam Looney Brian. The last question I'll have for you today Sam writes. Hi. I have a covid-19 question. I'm a 17 year-old high schooler in Indiana and my anxiety has been spiking because of this pandemic. How worried should I be about it? How worried should I be for my grandparents who have autoimmune issues? Yeah anxiety is real I couldn't tell you how many people I've talked to who are Aren't usually anxious people who are telling me they're having trouble sleeping. They're feeling like the initial stages of a panic attack.

3 (24m 2s):
This is also new for so many people and you know scary to not be able to leave your house and something I've been thinking about is like I've been at home and my routine is broken and there's just so many things in my day that were invisible to me but like there are things that fill you up but now like they just leave you empty like You don't see the familiar faces everyday. And so like we know this in from psychologists who constantly tell us isolation as a health risk factor. It's a scary thing, but just to know like you're not alone and that anxious space it's weird. We're like all alone together and it's hard to really understand.

3 (24m 45s):
You know what this is doing on like at the psychological level to all these people that you know, that's if it helps to know you're not And that's where we'll start. Can I add something? Yeah. I think you gotta like remember to laugh or stuff like this will really just destroy you and I don't mean to be Flip or like reductive of what everyone's going through right now, but there was a time not too long ago that the news is really killing me and I stopped laughing and I ended up in the hospital for like a day thinking I maybe had a heart attack and they said like well as your behavior been different in the past few days, and I was like, yeah, like I haven't laughed or smiled in several days.

3 (25m 29s):
And I just think like try and find ways to like have the full breadth of Human Experience. Even as you're Sheltering at home even as you worry about your grandparents, even as you maybe are dealing with serious anxiety. Is that okay? I really want to give you a hug right now, even though I can't and I won't that hugs just going to be all the more sweeter when we get to have it in like six months or or 12 months or hopefully not 18 months. It's in my calendar July 20 22 whenever it is Shawn gets a hug. Thanks, Brian.

3 (26m 11s):
You're welcome. Brian Resnick is a senior reporter at vaux the today explain team includes Bridget McCarthy. I'm not al-saadi Halima Shaw a theme Shapiro Gillian Weinberger and no MM hassenfeld who also makes music for the show here and there the mysterious brake master cylinder makes the rest of the music Cecilia lay is our fact Checker Liz Nelson is the editorial director of vocs podcasts. And today explained is part of the VOX media podcast Network. It is unfairly beautiful out right now and it's kind of like you almost look like you're trying to independently communicate with the satellite like holding a microphone in the sky and you have your headphones on it's a little out of place for this playground.

3 (27m 1s):
I'm really glad we could do this though. Yeah

2 (27m 3s):
course. If there was a spreadable clickable bakeable plant-based butter that was better for your body and the planet what would you make with it butter cookies butter pie? That's a thing by the way, whatever. It is Country Crock plant butter makes it happen and makes it delicious Country Crock plant butter is so tasty even butter lovers love it. You can use it as a one-to-one substitute for dairy butter in all of your favorite recipes and enjoy it knowing it has 25% less. Saturated fat than regular old dairy butter to try it for yourself. Use the store locator at Country Crock.com plant - butter today.

2 (27m 48s):
Hey everyone. This is Kara Swisher editor-at-large at

3 (27m 51s):
recode and I'm Scott Galloway and why you business school

2 (27m 54s):
professor and we want to tell you about pivot are twice weekly podcast. Yeah,

3 (28m 1s):
you're right. It's a chance for the jungle cat and the big dog to break down all things happening in Tech business politics and among our canine

2 (28m 10s):
friends. Oh my God Scott. This is where like basically where I keep you in check. So people can make it through each episode which one of our fans The yelling podcast

3 (28m 19s):
unleash the hounds release the Hound Cara release the

2 (28m 23s):
Hound got it. I spent all week in the trenches holding Business Leaders feet to the fire fearlessly tweeting at the Zuckerberg the world and then we come in the student argue about which one of us knows more about what happened that week. Typically, it's me, but not for lack of trying on Scott's part

3 (28m 38s):
if typically means one to two percent of the time, yes, typically every Tuesday and Friday morning. We drop a new episode about some of the biggest stories that have happened to give you context. Or how those stories affect your life your portfolio your personal well-being and your Landscaping. Oh

2 (28m 55s):
my God, we're on top of the big stories. Like have Facebook is monitor your not monitoring misleading political ads including coronavirus as we're watching the big companies like Airbnb try to battle with cities over renting rules. We talked about how ride-sharing companies are navigating the gig economy. You name it and we will walk you through the story.

3 (29m 13s):
Also, we like to pick apart the winners and losers of the week. We talked to experts Smarter than we are pretty low bar there about important issues. And we take your listener questions to provide Nuance care. We do by Nuance one wants to anyone ever accused us of being Nuance. That's the copy. They gave

2 (29m 32s):
us. Oh my God and Scott, even though I give him a hard time because in fact a prediction machine how many things have you gotten right Scott? Do you keep a tally?

3 (29m 40s):
I think I've gotten exactly 50% right? I'm almost sure that okay exactly. 50% bonus super probably by the way. I'm not a prediction machine. I'm just a machine. Oh my God, and I don't dance for nobody but the jungle cat. Oh, that was good. Oh my God, that was good

2 (29m 57s):
that is disturbing and every format. So if it sounds good to you, how could it not subscribe to Pivot with Kara swisher and Scott go away for free on Apple podcasts or in your favorite app.