2 (5s):
It's Thursday, April 16 2020. Happy Birthday Dad. I'm Sean Rama's firm. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained. Let's spin the globe will start with the biggest planet on Earth Facebook. The company today said it has removed hundreds of thousands of posts featuring conspiracy theories and medical misinformation about covid-19 people who interacted with the bad stuff are going to get notifications and links to good stuff from the World Health Organization. Check your sources people. Pans prime minister Shinzo Abe a declared a nationwide state of emergency today extending one that was already in place in the country's major cities covid-19 is spreading their but the country has not imposed lockdowns.

2 (48s):
Like we've seen elsewhere despite sharing a border with China Vietnam has fewer than 300 covid-19 cases and 0 reported deaths according to NPR. That's because of early quarantining aggressive contact tracing and some serious consequences from a One party communist state one guy is spending nine months in jail for failing to wear a mask. Russia's postponing a big military parade, even though Vladimir Putin really really didn't want to he's now saying the risks are just too high infections continue to rise their the United Kingdom is extending its lock down by at least three weeks. The British government thinks the country is nearing its covid-19 peak and back in the United States.

2 (1m 32s):
We got new jobs numbers today 5.2 million. People filed for unemployment last week bringing the total over the last month to about 22 million The Washington Post is reporting that millions of Americans who were expecting stimulus checks via direct deposit on Wednesday didn't get them due to a glitch in the IRS payment Matrix. The post says a number of parents didn't get their 500 dollar checks for dependents as well. The IRS and Treasury Department say they are working on it. The president is scheduled. Jewel to speak about reopening the country later today that's all while the governors of several states on the East Coast are extending lockdowns until mid-may much more on what it will take to properly and safely reopen the country in today's show.

2 (2m 20s):
And before we get to the show, you've probably heard that New Yorkers applaud their essential workers from their windows and doors steps and Stoops every night at 7:00 tonight A group called piece of heart choir wants to dial it up a notch. Here's the idea after To clap and cheer everyone does their best Sinatra and belts out, New York New York at the top of their lungs. You can sing along to the song tonight at seven via WK C R8 8/9 WBAI 99.5 or join in from just about anywhere on the planet at the New York sings along event page on where else Facebook

3 (3m 1s):
Greatest city in the whole world God Spreading the News I'm leaving

2 (3m 11s):
today.

3 (3m 14s):
I wanna

2 (3m 15s):
be a part of it,

3 (3m 18s):
New York New York these Vagabond shoes. They are longing to stray right through the very heart of it, New York, New York.

4 (3m 46s):
Have you guys heard science versus not science versus something? It's just called science versus it's a podcast from gimlet. It takes on the messy world of news and internet fights to find out what's real. And what's not and what somewhere between maybe you've heard about all the conspiracy theories related to this coronavirus science versus might be a good place to go figure out. What's what in that Arena this season. They are tackling the Coronavirus. After answering questions, like should we all be wearing homemade masks? Should you be disinfecting everything you bring home from the grocery store science versus takes on fads and Trends and the opinionated mob that you keep hearing from on WhatsApp to find out what's fact what's not and what somewhere in between check them out for free on Spotify.

4 (4m 55s):
The only thing President Trump really wants to talk about is when and how the country opens back up one day. He's got all the power to do it the next day. He's gonna cooperate with Governor's the deadline keeps getting punted what's clear is he doesn't really have a plan to fight this coronavirus, but Zeke Emanuel does he's an oncologist a bioethicist and was a health policy advisor in the Obama Administration. The first thing I asked him was is the country even ready to open back up.

1 (5m 24s):
No, it's not ready on two accounts. First of all, we have too many new cases still of covid-19 worst while we've probably bent the curve. We're still high up and you can't even think about reopening the country until you've come down the back end of that curve. Irv, that'll take another four to six weeks. It's a bell-shaped curves for your audience. So what goes up has to come down and exactly the same Arc. So that's part 1 and part 2 is we need a kind of infrastructure that allows us to move from mitigation that is reduced the number of new cases and deal with the cases. We have to containment when a new case pops up isolate them find the other people they've been involved with and try to Limit the spread of the virus.

1 (6m 16s):
So that's a really important infrastructure and we're far from that infrastructure to so what we really need to do is to take the time we have now and get that infrastructure ready. And there's no evidence. We're doing that.

4 (6m 31s):
What we know is that testing is it something like a hundred and fifty thousand people per day, which is a slight improvement from a few weeks ago when it was a hundred thousand or so a day so So we've gone from doing not remotely enough to slightly more than that.

1 (6m 48s):
We need to change substantially the who we test not just the numbers when I tell you how we change the who you'll see that the numbers have to go up substantially. So right now we're testing people the top categories are all people who we suspect have covet 19 because of symptoms healthcare workers Frontline healthcare workers because of symptoms new patients because the symptoms people over 65 because The symptoms people with comorbidities like hypertension or heart disease or diabetes because of symptoms that is were using the test to treat people really important but bad if what you want to do is open the economy and limit the spread of the virus.

1 (7m 29s):
If you want to limit the spread you have to do a different form of testing and testing different people. You have to focus in on testing Frontline workers who are actually interacting with a lot of people everyone in the hospital grocery workers. And you know Frontline responders policemen firemen people who are going to go back into the office people are going to work in restaurants. Those are the people who need to be tested because you gotta clamp down if any one of them is positive because they're interacting with if not hundreds of other people certainly scores of other people then when you say, all right, if I got to do all these Frontline workers and grocery workers and restaurant workers how many of them are there and let's say I want to test them every week to be, you know reasonable three to four million Frontline Healthcare.

1 (8m 12s):
Who have contact with patients every day 3 million grocery workers, you know, you're already at 7 million people that's a million tests a day per week and you haven't even talked about the policeman the fireman the people going back into their

4 (8m 26s):
office. Is it your sense that we're never going to get there that the president doesn't see that as a

1 (8m 31s):
priority. I don't quite you know, a people have been asking me this question and I just can't figure out what the Dilemma is. It is an FDA dilemma. Is it now that LabCorp? Or and Quest just have run out of reagents. They haven't done it. I just don't know what the limit is but there's clearly a big limit out there. I also think that the federal government, you know, there is some way in which its abdicated its lead and responsibilities and coordinating the national effort and I do think that we need more careful where all the resources are. We putting them in the right places. Let's bring on more testing capacity and that needs to

4 (9m 11s):
happen. Your sense of the supply of personal protective equipment at this point. I mean you're talking about a massive ramping up of testing that we still haven't reached but obviously all of the medical professionals health care workers front line workers grocery store workers. EMT workers are going to need a ton of PPE if they're going to be helping us facilitate all of this. Do they have it yet. It

1 (9m 34s):
depends what you mean by have it. One of the habits is are you changing your n95 masks between patients the answer to that is clearly know. No, people have been given an n95 mask. And you know, this is your mask for the year kind of thing. Well that that is not a good practice.

4 (9m 50s):
I watch to CBS reporter in a News segment go into a New York hospital and he was interviewing a nurse and she was telling the reporter.

3 (9m 59s):
I'd like a mask like yours. I'd like all of us that have mass like yours and these white suits like you

4 (10m 4s):
have look at your hazmat suit. Look at what I'm wearing And the reporter says

3 (10m 8s):
what is that? It looks like a garbage bag. This is about it is about that. I'm wearing a trash bet garbage bags and you have one very fancy stuff.

1 (10m 20s):
Yeah. Yeah, and I think that's part of the problem. We just don't have enough or the right amount in the right places. I mean clearly the underserved hospitals the public hospitals. They just have not had sufficient amount and we also needed in places that haven't blown up yet, but are very much likely to blow up that have sort of I've taken a laissez-faire attitude, you know, we saw this in South Dakota with the Smithfield the pork packing plant. We're not doing shelter-in-place. The governor's been resistant to it. And then boom you have hundreds of cases all from one plant and other cities are going to have that too.

4 (10m 58s):
Yeah. Are you talking about just the states like South Dakota North Dakota, Nebraska that haven't made formal shelter in place policies. Are you talking about cities and states that have them in place to

1 (11m 8s):
studies and States had were late to put them in place. You're still on the Growth curve may be delayed a few days than what you would have done with no shelter in place, but you didn't do shelter in place in time. You know, that was clearly the case in New Orleans where they let Mardi Gras happen. They you know, then got on the exponential curve parts of Florida. You're going to see a lot more. So, you know, it's going to pop up around the

4 (11m 33s):
country is the United States particularly disadvantaged here because of how much autonomy the president has given the states in the situation. I In Italy was late to implement social distancing. But once they did they really clamp down. Obviously, we're not doing that. Well that affect the entire country's ability to

1 (11m 52s):
proceed people travel and if you don't clamp down everywhere and have a national shelter-in-place policy and have a president who's trying to persuade every governor and giving Governor's cover to do it. That's how you get a national policy. And if you don't have a national policy in someone from you know, South Dakota who happens to be positive but asymptomatic goes to Someplace that doesn't have a high level interacts with a lot of people you could have a another explosion and in those places and that's how it's happened. I mean, that's how we got it in the United States in the first place people who were in China came back or people who were in Europe and got it in Europe came back and you know, just a few people spread it around and all public health people think all right.

1 (12m 34s):
We relax the physical distancing. We allow rest non-essential businesses to open people. Go back to work we even allowed Some large crowds like religious services and you will definitely have a recrudescence of the disease.

4 (12m 59s):
If we can't get our testing ramped up, we're never going to get to contact tracing and contact tracing is the next step that's after the break on today explained. Hey, so I've been getting emails from listeners and sometimes even tweet saying like how can we support the work that you are doing that today explain is doing that Vox is doing and usually I'm just like I don't know share it. But now there is a different way to support today explained and box Vox is launching a contribution effort right now and vox.com give you can give money you can contribute to help Vox make podcasts to The explanatory journalism that you depend on and right now in this crisis is more important than it's ever been so you can choose what that work is worth to you and give to support Vox and today explained and all the stuff that you love that we do go to vox.com give right now and make your contribution just a heads up.

4 (14m 14s):
It's not tax deductible. But thank you so much for your

3 (14m 17s):
support. Hey, it's Kara Swisher. You may know me as the only person who looks cool wearing sunglasses indoors. But in my spare time, I host a podcast called Rico decode every week. We talk about power change in the people. You need to know around Tech and Beyond some of my recent guests include Edward Snowden Megan Rapinoe and the cast of The L Word which was a huge thrill for me. If any of these sound interesting to you, you should listen them now on Rico decode subscribe to the

4 (14m 45s):
show for free on Apple

3 (14m 46s):
podcast or in your favorite podcast app to be the first to hear new interviews every week. covid

4 (14m 58s):
alright, so my understanding is that if we can't really get the social distancing piece figured out and the testing piece figured out we're never going to get to the place where we can properly Implement contact tracing figuring out who's come into contact with people who have covid-19. Do I have that wrong

1 (15m 16s):
not out contact tracing depends upon being able to identify covid positive people and then look at their contacts rapidly. That's where technology really needs to have come in and then get those Tested that is the nature of the game and in this situation because of virus travels so fast, you really need to have technology augment basically old-style gumshoe contact tracing. Okay. So

4 (15m 41s):
if we get the extended Nationwide shutdown, we need and testing on the massive scale. We need and the PPE are essential workers need none of which we have yet. How do you then Trace

1 (15m 54s):
contact you need technology to help? Help us identify people who are connectors who interact with a lot of people and come have come close to a lot of people that technology is, you know, Facebook and Google already have it and they can probably give you a list of everyone you've come in close contact with

4 (16m 13s):
and this is the thing that Google and apple say they're going to collaborate on

1 (16m 16s):
to yes because you'll have it on the Android you have it on the iPhone, but you don't need an app. They already know, you know, and then you need to have a list for everyone who's positive be able to detect that. Since probably send out a message that says you've come in contact with someone who's covid positive that doesn't mean your covid positive. But you need to test you know, that's not rocket science. That's something the Google and Facebook Engineers could probably do over a weekend if they really wanted to and that is very very important. But of course, none of us trust Google and Facebook with our data and we'd be very suspicious. So we need some independent public trusted organization to do it to See us.

1 (16m 58s):
It's not going to be commercialized. They're not going to keep the data on us. They're going to erase it so that our individual privacy is protected.

4 (17m 6s):
So a whole nother host of problems here, even if we get to the point where we had the infrastructure we have the third party. There's a good chance that Americans still won't want to volunteer their information to the government to Google to Facebook voluntarily right

1 (17m 20s):
right trust is a big issue here and you know, there's probably half the population doesn't trust the government and half the population doesn't trust the tech. Tunisia and so, you know, you have to find some other group that collapsed, you know, a three-way collaboration where one group that controls the data is some group that the public will

4 (17m 39s):
trust in rumor has it the president's gonna seriously speak about contact tracing for the first time later today. I'm guessing it's because he's what just been preoccupied with trying to reopen the

1 (17m 52s):
country and maybe it's just that the attention has been on the testing issue both the viral. Testing and now the serology testing that everyone seems to be focused on the antibody testing both are important, but they're not the only thing that they enable the contact tracing they enable isolation. But you know, remember the real threat here the real threat to opening our the asymptomatic infected people. Yeah, because they're the people unwittingly just go and spread it around and any one of us could be that person and we need to basically focus in on that person. And make sure that they isolate themselves for at least 14 days,

4 (18m 32s):
which we can't do without dramatically ramping up testing. Correct, which we show no signs of doing right now,

1 (18m 38s):
correct. And by the way, the Third Leg of the stool is to protect the particularly susceptible those who are older those with serious comorbidities that we know give you a predilection towards getting the disease vascular problems diabetes. Obesity heart disease. Asthma

4 (18m 55s):
does this keep you up at

1 (18m 56s):
night? Wow, you know, you got me on a day when I'm not particularly depressed last week. I was particularly depressed the whole week because of this because I couldn't see a way out. I do think we have the capacity to ramp up testing. I think the pressure will grow to ramp change the the guidelines under which were operating have the CDC change those guidelines. I think there are ways of other solutions to the testing problem

4 (19m 22s):
is someone going to have to drag the president kicking and screaming and if so, who is that someone is it is it felt Chi It Burke's is it Newsome Cuomo? Who is it

1 (19m 31s):
Inslee? If I were a betting man, it's probably going to be the business Community. Here's what you have to do. If we're going to open up. He's got all these business guys. He's talking to I think they're mostly guys. So I think if they say listen, I'd be happy to get my people back, but I need you to do something to make that more viable and safe. By the way process for me. Here's what I need that may be the dance that we End up having

4 (20m 1s):
and if that doesn't happen, can you just remind us in your estimation? Yes what this looks like. Is it a second wave. Do you even do we even get out of the first wave?

1 (20m 11s):
Yes, well get out of the first way because we're sort of Sheltering in place in it. Looks like the president has backed away from the Mets first opening. It'll be sometime in May or June for something like that. The numbers will have come down substantially. Then we're gonna you know, we're not going to be prepared. We're going to Relax, the physical distancing guidelines and rules people are going to go out and you're going to have a second Resurgence. Probably sometime mid-july and the July or early August kind of thing that will depend heavily on how much risk people are taking. I think in the last couple of weeks.

1 (20m 51s):
I've heard more hesitation like hmm, you know 41 people who were grocery store clerk. X died

4 (20m 60s):
maybe

1 (21m 1s):
there's something to this and I don't want to rush out and be the first person out there going to a restaurant sitting at a table, you know, if the American public is hesitant and not assured that the safety precautions and they might actually be very slow to restart the economy. And so I think we don't know how fast that Resurgence might take place, but if we don't have the proper regime to actually Contact rate. I can see Americans being hesitant. I've seen enough 27 year old who aren't supposed to get sick from this thing that I maybe I'll be a little more cautious. We'll see

4 (21m 40s):
have you had an opportunity to speak with the president since this pandemic became you know

1 (21m 46s):
crisis, I'd prefer not to answer that question the answer. Yeah, the answer is I have spoken to him but not in the last four weeks, huh? What did you guys talk about? Covid-19 various proposals to intervene.

4 (22m 2s):
Did you feel like you convince them in any in any particular regard?

1 (22m 6s):
I don't want to go into the details.

4 (22m 7s):
If you could talk to him today considering everything you just told me about how far behind we are on testing still how far behind we are on PPE still what would you say?

1 (22m 21s):
Well, I completely agree with him that we need to reopen the economy. It's really important for all the Americans who lost their job. It's important to everyone and try to explain why I think the testing has to go up and contact tracing and how you might do that and make a big impassioned plea that you know, the only way you're going to convince Americans to do these things is if they have the assurity that they can be tested and the the healthcare system will be there. Or

4 (22m 50s):
them. Did you ever think you'd see a pandemic like this in your lifetime in this country?

1 (22m 57s):
I wish of two minds. So I began teaching at the University of Pennsylvania. And I used to teach a course called rationing and resource allocation where the rationing part was all about pandemic planning and how you would distribute all these Goods like a vaccine and ICU bed and ventilators. And so I've been thinking about this and my students have been learning about this and I there's a line in that course. Slides that I show all the influenza pandemics in the 20th century 19 18 1957 1968 and I had a line that I would say, you know, we're overdue for a pandemic in this country. We've gone 50 years without a one of these we're going to have one and you know, we had a near Miss in 2009 with H1N1.

1 (23m 45s):
I'm worried. So I'd always been thinking about it and always knew that there is a remote. That possibility but if we have this remote possibility the consequences are huge, but I also was like hmm, you know, like everyone else it's a low probability event huge consequences, but low probability and I think as human beings were kind of crappy at planning for low probability high impact events, and I think we need to be better at that. It's like insurance. I don't buy insurance for a high probability of it. I buy my insurance for a low probability event, but high end. Yeah, we need to think about these kind of planning things like insurance. So I've been thinking about this for 15 years.

1 (24m 27s):
Did I actually think I'd live through this and have a role in it.

4 (24m 30s):
No. Hmm. But I mean this pandemic has made so painfully obvious so many dysfunctions in the United States from our social safety net to government preparedness to you know, gross inequities. It feels like an opportunity to maybe hit reset on so many things we're doing Poorly or just not doing it all do you think we will there

1 (24m 55s):
are three or four things at this pandemic has really made clear. I think first it's made all of us insecure the uncertainty. The insecurity is just palpable to everyone constantly second. It's made clear that we're social beings and social life is critical to all of us not being able to be in the same studio with you doing this over the phone. It's like I want to be with people. Having a zoom, you know happy hour is not happy hour. Right and I think people are really feeling hungry for that. And the third thing is we're all limited in our experience. Yes. I can be in my house and I can go out for the same F and walk over and over again.

1 (25m 38s):
Yeah and not being able to have it new experiences is degrading substantially people's happiness. So I think the first part of your question is critical it's security people want so I do think we're going to have a reset and I think we're going to have a reset around security our government our country has to give us some security. What is that security look like clearly health insurance clearly Family Leave clearly unemployment insurance whether you're in the gig economy or not similarly on social life when this thing is over you can forget virtual reality what we want in reality. We want people we want to rub shoulders with real other people.

4 (26m 19s):
Thanks so much that

1 (26m 20s):
care, man

3 (26m 26s):
I miss you. Can't wait for the shit show. So that I can touch people drink was people and have the best life ever

4 (26m 40s):
Zeke Emanuel is vice Provost of global initiatives at University of Pennsylvania. He's also got a new podcast making the call. It's Zeke and another bioethicist answering big questions about covid-19. Go subscribe for more Zeke wherever you listening to this again. It's making the call. I'm Sean Rama's for him. This one's today explained.