0 (1s):
If there are friends and family members you haven't talked to in awhile, don't worry. It's never too late to reconnect to help at. And T is offering deals on the latest smartphones. It's not complicated. Everyone deserves something new. So at and T is giving new and existing customers their best deals on every smartphone. Even the latest ones, restrictions and exemptions apply. Visit att.com for details.

2 (27s):
Yo, this is Marquez Brownlee, AKA MKBHD, and this is Andrew manga Nelly. And we want to introduce you to our podcast way form the newest addition to the Vox media podcast network. So I've spent over 10 years reviewing tech products and consumer electronics for millions of people on the MKBHD YouTube channel. And now on the wave form podcast, Andrew and I use that experience to dig even deeper into the latest tech from smartphones to IMAX, to electric cars. So if you're a gadget lover or a tech head, or if you just want to figure out whether the latest gadget is worth your hard earned cash, give us a listen. So you can find a way for them at the MKBHD podcast on your favorite podcast app every Friday, see over there,

3 (1m 12s):
I explained I'm Sean Rama's from last Friday, just as we were wrapping up our show and getting ready to start our weekends. I watched this investigative video from New York times that suggested a drone strike executed in Kabul. On August 29th may have hit the wrong target. It was extremely compelling journalism. I wanted to talk to the reporters behind the video. And yesterday I did Matthew Akins, a times writer based in Kabul. We were about to publish our episode with Matthew today when general Kenneth F. McKenzie confirmed that this attack was indeed a tragic and fatal mistake.

4 (1m 53s):
I mean, thoroughly reviewed the findings of the investigation and the supporting analysis by inter-agency partners. I am now convinced that as many as 10 civilians, including up to seven children were tragically killed in that strike. Moreover, we now assess that it is unlikely that the vehicle and those who died or associated with ISIS K or were a director at the U S forces

3 (2m 16s):
On the show today. Our conversation with Matthew that we had before the military admitted their mistake, what the hell happened on August 29th,

0 (2m 27s):
Part one, the strike.

5 (2m 30s):
So I actually heard the explosion from the strike on the evening of August 29th. And the first report was that it was a rocket, you know, so when I launched a rocket at the airport, probably, and it misses target and land on the house, we could see video on social media of a house burning in a crowded residential neighborhood. But later on, it came out that that had actually been a drone strike by the

6 (3m 7s):
Yesterday. A us military forces conducted an over the horizon. Counter-terrorism operation against an ISIS K planner and facilitator.

5 (3m 22s):
So the next morning woke up quite early and jumped on my motorcycle. I was driving and photographer with times Jim harlot, Brooke was on the back. That's how we like to get around here because the traffic and it's more low profile. So we wrote out to the area where the strike had taken place. And we asked some local residents who pointed us in the direction of the house. And as we got there and these narrow little streets alleyways, basically we saw a crowd of residents gathered neighbors, you know, at the gate of the house. And we went inside, introduce yourselves as journalists, of course, and there, we could see the wreckage of this car that had been hit by a hellfire missile.

5 (4m 9s):
There was a twisted, massive steel and kind of black and material around it though. I did notice pretty much right away that the walls of the courtyard were still intact, which became important later. And there was actually still human remains at the site, you know, their body parts and blood and flesh spattered on the walls ceilings. And so, whereas we're taking this in and we started talking to the family members, you know, asking who the witnesses were. And they were very upset because they told us that 10 members of their family had been killed including seven children.

5 (4m 51s):
So it was immediately apparent to us that there had been cause civilian casualties in this strike. So the house belonged to <inaudible> who was the target of the strike. It was his car that had been hit inside this courtyard as he was coming home. And his brother told me that what had happened was it normally the kids in this house because he lived with his three brothers who all had families. So there's a lot of children in this home. They ran out in the street, you know, to greet him coming home. They're excited, they'd get in the car. You know, one would sit behind the wheel, maybe in his lap and they would help him back the car into this title, little courtyard.

5 (5m 35s):
And he said the motor was still running. He was sitting in an adjacent room and he heard the sound of his brother coming in, very familiar sound. The motor was still running when there was a blast and the windows blew out. He got to his feet and asked his wife where the children, and then went outside and saw, you know, a dead nephew and badly wounded in the face and torso by shrapnel. And he saw another kid who was dead and a lot of fire and smoke. And that's when the neighbors came and pulled them out of there. There had already been reports on social media. And I think some local Afghan journalists had reported that there had been children killed and civilian casualties.

5 (6m 19s):
So we were definitely aware that that was what might've happened. But when I got there and saw for myself, you know, that this was his family's home and that they were an agony, you know, grief-stricken, and that all their neighbors were gathered around sort of angrily saying that, how could the us have done this to this family? It made it real. And it made it very obvious that there had been civilian casualties. So what we now know is that the 10 people who died in the strike, whereas MRI D you know, who was 43 years old and then three of his children, Zamir who's 25, 12, 16, far as 10 years old, Mr.

5 (7m 5s):
Ahmadis cousin Nassar, who's 33 of his brother's children are ween seven Benyamin, six and Hyatt. Who's two years old and a two three-year-old girls Mylicon. So Maya got back on the bike, headed home and started working on the story. You know, I'm trying to get it out. And there was many other stories written that day by different media organizations. You know, this was a fairly accessible site in Kabul, even though obviously it was under Taliban control and, and in a war zone in a sense. And I think it kind of dropped off the news for a bit. There was a, there was a lot happening in Afghanistan during that time, but we definitely felt like this needed to follow up.

5 (7m 50s):
So we, and we, I, you know, told the family that I would keep investigating. So we did

7 (7m 56s):
Part two, the investigation,

5 (7m 59s):
While I was at the scene of the strike, I was shown a business card that belonged to samurai. The man who'd been targeted in the strike showing that he was an engineer for nutrition education, international California-based charity that was using soybean production to fight malnutrition Afghanistan. So I wrote in the office of this company, which was closed, you know, they, after their colleague had been killed, they shut it down. But his boss would actually seen at the side of the strike, came in and sat with me and another coworker. And they also wanted to clear their colleague's name, because they were certain that this guy who had worked for the company since 2006 and was the nicest guy to them was not a ISIS facilitator.

5 (8m 46s):
So I went in and sat down with him and we looked at the camera footage and kind of it, the different scenes that would show what he was up to that day. And ultimately, you know, appear in the video that we published in the times. And, you know, we started seeing him show up in the morning with his colleagues, get out, you could see him go into the office, wave to the cleaner and, you know, come out again. And he went for a drive with some other colleagues on pre-planned visit to basically arrange, to deliver some food to refugees who had camped out in a park. And crucially, what we saw was him fill up some containers of the water.

5 (9m 29s):
You can actually see the water streaming from the hose. And he put those in the trunk of his car. These are actually containers that I had taken a picture of at the site, shredded these plastic, Jerry cans, sort of, that you could use for fuel or for, for water. And you know, that are also commonly used for improvised explosives in Afghanistan

3 (9m 49s):
At this point, tell me, are you sure this is the wrong person? Are you unsure? Are you thinking this could be someone involved with ISIS? K, what's going through your head as you're doing this investigation.

5 (10m 2s):
I mean, one of the things you try to do as an investigative journalist is always doubt your story. You know, what's the saying, if your mother tells you, she loves you fact check it, right? And so, even though it's being with his colleagues, family members who really loved him and were, were grief-stricken, I was open the possibility that he had some connection with ISIS. I'm still open to that possibility. We don't know if he maybe had had some calls, some Dave and associate with the wrong people, whatever, that's a possibility, but it doesn't really justify the, taking a strike in a crowded area when there were no exposes in the car.

5 (10m 44s):
I wasn't sure what I would see that day. I wasn't sure what it would prove or disprove, but when I saw the water jugs, I was like, wow, this is significant. You know, this is something being loaded into the trunk of the car that maybe to a drone could look like a bomb, but it's actually just water. We see him with the hose with running water. And as his colleagues explained to me, he would do this from time to time. He would take home water to his family because since the collapse of the government, the deliveries water truck delivers in his neighborhood stopped. And, you know, like I said, it's a big family. So he was bringing home water from the office. And I think the timing of him coming and going was also very important, you know, later on it allowed us to kind of piece together where he actually was where the military said he was or where they, you know, the compound they identified, for example, as a, being a place where potential explosives are loaded on board.

5 (11m 37s):
Well, based on the timing, he was definitely at the NDI office. So that was the compound. He's at the office. We put together a timeline of his day by interviewing everybody who was in the car with him that day that we know of. And I spoke to all of them and I spoke to more than a dozen of his coworkers and family members. So we established the here had actually gotten a call from his boss at quarter to nine, his boss, and I can see this, I was on the camera and showed up to work and forgotten his laptop.

5 (12m 18s):
So the boss calls me, he's like, Hey, are you at home? Okay, good. Can you get my laptop on your way to work picked up the laptop? And, you know, I got the location of that house and it turned out that that house is two blocks away from where there would be a rocket attack the next day, the day after the strike by ISIS using a similar vehicle. So that could possibly account for how the us got interested in Zimride in the first place, then maybe got their wires crossed. Was it, there was ISIS activity in this neighborhood? There was a definitely a threat against the airport.

5 (12m 58s):
I mean, there'd already been a devastating suicide attack a few days earlier. So that also was very suggestive, but it was, I think, just quite important for us to have a kind of exhaustive as possible timeline of his day. So again, just interview everyone who he met,

7 (13m 21s):
Part three, what the hell happened here?

5 (13m 25s):
I went back, you know, four days later and after the strike and I took more photos and videos of the scene, where there was also some fragments that they had found of the hellfire missile. So we passed all this up to the visual investigations team. They were meanwhile hard at work. They spoke to a bunch of experts in airstrikes and munitions. You know, one was a former British army officer, again, who were all unanimous and saying there was no evidence of a second bigger blast. You know, they pointed to the fact that the walls nearby were intact, those intact vegetation, the courtyard, the car next to it, hadn't been shifted single crater, a single dent in the gate indicating a single blast wave.

5 (14m 9s):
So there was not a second bigger bomb based on this evidence. It's possible. The, what the drone saw, what the us military saw was the, just the fuel tank of that vehicle or the vehicle next to it, going up in a fireball because there was definitely evidence of fire that it burned there and melted a bunch of plastic and stuff like that. So that was the perhaps most important conclusion of our investigation, which was that there was not evidence of a secondary, large explosion. And that contradicted what the military had repeatedly said at the time

8 (14m 43s):
Time. And I think this is still valid. We had very good intelligence that ISIS K was preparing a specific type vehicle at a specific type location. We monitored that through various means and all of the engagement criteria were being met. We went through the same level of rigor that we've done for years.

5 (15m 3s):
So the military basically doubled down in the days that followed

8 (15m 8s):
Because there were secondary explosions, there's a reasonable conclusion to be made that there was explosives in that vehicle. The third thing is we know from a variety of other means that at least one of those people that were killed was a ISIS facilitator. So were there others killed? Yes, there are others killed who they are. We don't know. We'll try to sort through all that, but we believe that the procedures at this point, I don't want to influence the outcome of an investigation, but at this point we think that the procedures were correctly followed. I know it's a righteous strike

5 (15m 39s):
And this was after our story had run about the civilian casualties, including seven children. Decision-making for this kind of strike the authority to pull the trigger had been delegated to a lower level of command than normal over the course of the airport evacuation, I think because of the urgency of the situation that, so that meant that the strike was probably subject to less vetting the normal and less levels of approval than normal. I don't know what's in the classified materials that they have the intelligence, and I don't know whether or not Zimmer I made the wrong phone call that day, whether he was secretly an ISIS sympathizer though, it seems odd because he wanted to go to America.

5 (16m 28s):
You know, this is someone who had an active refugee resettlement case. He was being sponsored by this California-based company. He and his whole family desperately hoped to be evacuated to the United States. So I don't understand the motivation for a terrorist attack, but if we're asking whether the strike was as merely put in a righteous strike, whether it followed the proper rules of engagement, you know, we can say that there was no evidence of a larger bomb in this car. So how could it have posed an imminent threat, especially when it was at a house away from the airport where he was actually parking for the night. And so then if that's the case, what's the justification for taking an airstrike in a crowded civilian area, residential area where there's a very high likelihood of collateral damage.

5 (17m 17s):
And as it happened, seven children were killed. In that sense, I think we can be fairly confident that this strike was, was a mistake. And it's a mistake that was denied by the military. And that was nine days to the official account. And I think it's only because of the reporting that we and other media organizations were able to do on the ground. Cause it's happened in Kabul, that the militaries account is being challenged. And that's the thing is that, you know, most of the time it's not

3 (18m 37s):
Support for the show today comes from Wondery and their podcast business wars. We might remember in the nineties to hip hop record labels, shocked parents, and won over fans, worldwide selling tens of millions of albums. Those record labels were bad boy and death row. And the business wars podcast from Wondery has the story of how these two labels changed American music and American business. The battle between the two labels escalated as they fought to reach the top of the charts. People died. You'll hear about Tupac and biggie and Dr.

3 (19m 20s):
Dre and Snoop Dogg and puff daddy and shook night. The story of these record labels and their rivalries is a textbook for financial success, but also how that success leads to Mo money, Mo problems, business wars, death row versus bad boy. You can find it wherever you find your podcasts, or you can listen one week early and add free by joining one repless in the Wondery app.

0 (19m 55s):
If there are friends and family members you haven't talked to in awhile, don't worry. It's never too late to reconnect to help at. And T is offering deals on the latest smartphones. It's not complicated. Everyone deserves something new. So at and T is giving new and existing customers their best deals on every smartphone, even the latest ones, restrictions and exemptions apply, visit att.com for details.

3 (20m 24s):
Matthew, we did an episode recently on the cost of nine 11, where we were sure to point out that, you know, something like 3000 people died on September 11th, 2001, but, but nearly a million, if not many more have died in the subsequent war on terror. How often does stuff like what you described in the first half of the show happen in United States, drone warfare?

5 (20m 50s):
Well, I think it happens far more often than we know. And the reason I say that is because only a fraction of these incidents can really be investigated. They typically happen in areas that are remote and difficult, it's even dangerous to access. So in most cases, we just have the official version. And yet we have many incidents that have been documented of civilian casualties. So it stands to reason that there are more, these strikes have been going on now for almost two decades. And it's very rare that we can put the faces and names on the innocent victims. Tell me about

3 (21m 26s):
Another incident that didn't go under the radar. One that was documented

5 (21m 31s):
Well in 2015, which seems like a lifetime ago, Kunduz city felt the Taliban. That was the first provincial capital

9 (21m 44s):
NATO trained Afghan police and army say they're doing what they can to thwart the attack, both sides. They say taking casualties

5 (21m 53s):
And the Afghan troops backed by us special forces, took it back fairly quickly. But in the course of this, house-to-house fighting the U S special forces on the ground. Call it an airstrike on a doctors without borders hospital, an AC one 30 gunship, which is a very powerful, special operations aircraft wiped out this hospital on October 3rd at about two in the morning

10 (22m 20s):
Earlier today, the international medical aid group doctors without borders accused us forces of deliberately bombing that hospital in Kunduz city, the U S

5 (22m 28s):
And at least 42 people were killed in the attack. Many of them medical staff from doctors without borders and patients. So it was a horrific incident. In this case, it was immediately apparent that a terrible mistake had been made and the us military promised it would investigate. Soon after the strike, I went to Kunduz and I ended up writing a story about it for the New York times magazine.

3 (22m 57s):
What did you find out?

5 (22m 58s):
Well, the U S military ended up saying that it was an accident.

11 (23m 2s):
The hospital was mistakenly struck. We would never intentionally target a protected medical facility.

12 (23m 10s):
The head of U S forces in Afghanistan, general. John Campbell told Congress this week that Afghan troops had requested the air cover because they were facing a Taliban attack.

5 (23m 20s):
They released a heavily redacted version of their report, and it was wasn't until seven months later that this came out saying that we made a series of errors. You know, there was some technical errors with the gunships, you know, navigation and targeting system. There were failures to report certain things. There was errors on the ground, but it was a mistake. We didn't mean to hit this hospital. This happened in part because the authority for the strike had been delegated to a lower level of command, which is the same thing that we're told happened with his drone strike. Now, in the case of canoes, it was because its strike was carried out under self-defense rules.

5 (24m 3s):
When U S forces are in imminent danger on the ground, you know, they have the ability to call in airstrikes to protect themselves. You know, that aren't subject to the normal levels of vetting and oversight because, you know, there have been many egregious instance of civilian casualties from airstrikes in Afghanistan, you know, where us war planes have wiped out wedding parties or convoys of civilians. And, you know, this was seen as not only something that was awful, but it was something that was turning the population against the U S occupation. And so there were these rules for oversight that were implemented, but these were waived in the cases of urgent self-defense and that's what happened in Kunduz.

3 (24m 52s):
How much does the U S military just accept this level of civilian death when it's conducting these airstrikes? How much has it seen as well? We're saving boots on the ground, so it's worth it.

5 (25m 6s):
Well, the military would say that no other military takes the same amount of steps to prevent civilian casualties,

3 (25m 14s):
But does any other military conduct as many airstrikes in foreign countries?

5 (25m 19s):
Exactly. No other military conducts this many drawn strikes overseas. So we definitely have a responsibility to be the best at avoiding civilian casualties. But the idea that <inaudible> casualties are avoidable. I think that if you carry out these kinds of airstrikes, eventually civilians are going to die. And therefore, in a sense, their deaths are intended.

3 (25m 48s):
The bombing outside the airport in Kabul was so brutal. So inhuman, it was easy to see the U S strikes some ISIS K fighter and prevent another attack and feel a sense of relief to maybe even feel good about it. I mean, the word general Millie, the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff used was righteous. And now of course, this feels very different. How are people reacting to your reporting?

5 (26m 18s):
Well, it's, what's interesting is the contrast in responses between the two stores. You know, the first one that we did, where it was sort of the civilian say that, you know, children died, which is a story that commonly comes out. There was a lot of people saying, well, you know, it's their fault for cause their dad was a terrorist or, you know, this is what happens. He probably had explosives in the car and that's why they die. That's the military saying, but when this investigation came out, I, I didn't really see that kind of response. I think that it just became obvious to people that there was no larger explosives in the car. So the civilians, the children were killed by a us missile.

5 (26m 59s):
And also that this guy just didn't really seem like a terrorist. I think a lot of people believed his colleagues and family and not the military.

3 (27m 9s):
I think that makes a difference because it's not like the United States is going to stop using drone strikes tomorrow. Right?

5 (27m 13s):
I think it may make a difference in this case. But the fact of the matter is these kind of airstrikes continue because we don't know much about the people were killed. You know, there are people coming from poor or torn countries and their lives really don't matter in the order of things, you know, not compared to American lives compared to, you know, not in a system where we have such vast inequality of wealth and power between different countries. So this is a wealthy country bombing a poor country. This is the richest country in the world bombing one of the poorest countries in the world. And so you can manage the investigation like that. And I think it all, you know, not just these investigations, but the efforts of activists, human rights organizations, legal groups, you know, lawmakers, ordinary citizens, and especially, you know, Afghans and Iraqis and other people themselves who are trying to tell their story.

5 (28m 11s):
I think all that matters, all that makes a difference. But at the end of the day, there's just a huge imbalance of power that allows for these wars and this lopsided killing to continue. I think some people, when they see this information, they do care. I think hopefully your listeners right now care. But I think a lot more people probably were excited about the start of the football season. It's an uphill battle, but we are killing people. So we need to know something about them.

4 (28m 54s):
I offer my profound condolences to the family and friends of those who were killed. This strike was taken and the earnest belief that it would prevent an imminent threat to our forces and the evacuees at the airport. But it was a mistake and I offer my sincere apology.

3 (29m 21s):
Matthew Akins is a writer for the New York times based in Kabul, Afghanistan, you can watch the video investigation he made with his colleagues@nyutimes.com. It's titled did a us drone strike in Afghanistan, kill the wrong person. Our episode today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain edited by Matthew Colette's engineered by a FIM Shapiro. In fact, checked by Laura Bullard. The rest of the tape explained team includes we'll read Heidi, Milwaukee, D miles, Brian and Halima Shaw. Our supervising producer is almond Al Saudi boxes. Veep of audio is Liz Kelly Nelson. Our deputy is Jillian Weinberger. We had extra help this week from Paul mousey.

3 (30m 2s):
We used music by Breakmaster cylinder and some from nom Hassenfeld today explained as part of the Vox media podcast network.