0 (1s):
The governors of Texas and Arizona, Greg Abbott, and Doug Ducey are spending millions of dollars to make a point. There are too many migrants arriving in their towns and cities. They say they can't handle all of them. And

1 (13s):
So we're sending the border to Biden and his administration. So they can begin to grapple with the challenges that we are dealing with.

0 (19s):
They're giving recent arrivals, free bus tickets and sending them to points north Chicago, Washington, DC, New York. This has caused some amount of chaos for those cities and for the new arrivals. And just last week, it forced Washington. DC's mayor mural, Bowser to declare a public emergency and to create an office for migrant affairs, which is something much more commonly seen in places like San Antonio and San Diego near the

2 (42s):
Border. We're not a border town. And so what we're doing today is a new normal for us. We have to have an infrastructure in place that allows us to deal with the border crisis that has visited us in Washington. DC

0 (56s):
Coming up on today, explained support for today's show comes from Samsung. If you are not quiet, quitting, but instead looking to supercharge your productivity. Here's the thing to know. Samsung's new galaxy Z fold four offers a world of possibilities with an expansive foldable screen. It's more than just a phone. Z, Z fold four is a full on multitasking powerhouse that lets you do more than ever, right from the Palm of your hand, the large and I'm told immersive screen folds out. So you can watch your favorite content while using your phone to take notes or to take a selfie. All of it. Hands free. You may visit samsung.com to learn more about the galaxy Z fold four.

3 (1m 39s):
Hi, I'm Kara Swisher for decades. I've covered Silicon valley, Washington and Hollywood making sense of those worlds by talking directly to the people who shaped them. Elon Musk, Barack Obama, Tony Fauci, Kim Kardashian. I've had the pleasure of grilling them all. Now I'm launching a new show called the Joe Rogan experience with Kara Swisher. Just kidding. It's actually called on with Kara Swisher. And let me tell you, it is on no holds barred on the tough questions or on my opinions on with Kara Swisher launches September 26th from New York magazine and the Vox media podcast network. Just look for on with Kara Swisher in your podcast app and hit follow or subscribe

0 (2m 25s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king Halima Shaw today explained senior reporter and producer. You went looking into the reasons that governor's Abbott and Ducey are doing this. What is happening? They say they don't like Joe Biden's immigration policies. And so they're basically trying to stick it to

1 (2m 41s):
Him. The Biden administration has been dumping off these migrants by the hundreds in local communities that do not have the ability to take care or deal with these migrants that are being dropped off. And as

0 (2m 52s):
Opposed to they claim Biden has an open border policy. That's causing chaos at the us Mexico border. There definitely isn't an open border policy, but the Biden administration does want to lift title 42. And this is the public health order that went into effect under president Trump. And it allows border officials to turn migrants, including those who say they want asylum away in the name of COVID 19 precautions. And since it went into effect two years ago, there have been over a million migrant expulsions. So if Biden lifts that policy, which Republicans really don't want him to do, officials would lose the legal justification to send migrants back to Mexico or their home countries.

0 (3m 37s):
And there could be a big increase in arrivals at the border. You went to see some of these arrivals, the buses coming into DC, the people getting off of them. What does it look like on a Thursday morning at about 6:00 AM? I saw this huge coach bus that said wind transportation pull into a parking lot in front of union station, right across from the capital building.

6 (4m 4s):
More time

0 (4m 8s):
When the bus stopped, I saw about 50 people get off and then the bus pulled away almost as quickly as it had arrived. The people I saw were mostly single men and boys who got off. There were some women and families who had children and babies. I even saw somebody, you know, snap a picture of the capital on their phone. Hmm. No one there really had that much. At the most. I saw somebody with a clear plastic bag. It held one of those emergency silver, Thermo blankets and a snack

5 (4m 44s):
Washington DC.

0 (4m 48s):
And this is right near the us capital. Who's there to greet them. Are their government representatives? No, I mainly met community volunteers and the groups at the forefront of this have been the migrant solidarity mutual aid network and another group called sanctuary DMV. But what I saw last month could change now that the mayor has declared a public emergency and pledged more support from the city because as migrants arrived, the closest thing I saw to government presence were workers from the emergency relief, nonprofit called SAMU, which has a FEMA grant.

0 (5m 29s):
After greeting the migrants. I saw a SAMU worker ask the group. If they were planning to travel beyond DC, almost everyone raised their hand. That's pretty typical. Only 10 to 15% of the migrants that actually arrive in DC. Stay here. That's what the volunteers told me. And then I saw a second bus arrive about 30, more people got off,

8 (5m 59s):
They just arrived. So what we do here is like welcoming them. And then

0 (6m 4s):
This is Diana Pula. She works with a local immigrant, nonprofit and volunteers here.

8 (6m 10s):
We're gonna try to get to the church where they can change. If we have some clothes and choose, we will have like food for them so they can eat something and rest a little bit. And then we're gonna do like the

0 (6m 23s):
Intake volunteers almost immediately started counting off migrants and organizing them into cars or vans to get to a nearby church.

8 (6m 32s):
They are coming with me because I have four spots on my car or trying to give priority to families and kids to use our cars. And there is another group that is gonna walk. It's like 20, 30 minutes from here walking.

0 (6m 47s):
So what's it like inside the church where Diana's bringing them, the migrants are basically sent into the church basement and inside the basement, there are bins of donated clothing for kids, for adults. And there's also diapers and toiletries. There's also a hot breakfast waiting for them. There's now 80 migrants here. And most of them have not had a hot meal since they got on to the bus. Oh, Jessica, who is a volunteer that you heard welcoming the migrants outside the bus. And she said, it's really hard to know how many migrants to prepare breakfast for because the numbers are always changing.

5 (7m 27s):
We never know exactly how many people will come because they're allowed to get off once they leave the state of Texas. And so they can get off a different spot. So sometimes the numbers are different than what we expect. We had people arrive last night. It was only 19 on the bus. The most I've seen is six buses in 24 hour period.

0 (7m 42s):
How do you know buses coming in?

5 (7m 44s):
We have contact with some organizations where someone gives us a little information. The frustrating thing is it's like the design of this is that they won't tell us officially. And so that is not an accident. You know, they're trying to create chaos here to approve a tical point. So we get a little bit of information fed to us, but not through official channels.

0 (8m 2s):
So after getting a hot meal and their essentials migrants can kind of get onto the wifi here at the church and call home, they can talk to volunteers about getting a train ticket to their final destination, a place that they actually have friends and family waiting for them. When things finally settled down, I was able to talk to a family of four that was at the church. There's a dad, Carlos, the mom, Jamie, their daughter, and their two year old

9 (8m 29s):
Santiago.

0 (8m 30s):
Their journey started in Columbia and they crossed the us Mexico border less than a week earlier. And this is why they decided to get on the bus from Texas.

9 (8m 39s):
Hey, I,

0 (8m 42s):
Jamie said they have friends in New York who are going to give the family a place to stay until they get on their feet. It's good that they have a place to go. How was their journey from Columbia to the us? It was very difficult. Carlos said the hardest part of the journey was actually in Mexico because the country's military is really cracking down on migrants. He even took his shoe off and showed it to me. And I saw that the side of his foot and heel had turned blue and purple.

11 (9m 13s):
I think it was because of the walking because of walking so much since I would keep walking with my swollen feet, they would get worse. In fact, my other foot is the same.

0 (9m 24s):
There's often a need for medical care. When migrants arrive in DC and that's something, the new office of migrant services is supposed to provide. I also ask the family why they're seeking asylum. And Carlos said they received some kind of threat from an armed group when they were living in Columbia. Are most of the people you met coming from Columbia or are they coming from all over central and south America? The largest group is actually from Venezuela. There are people coming from Columbia, as well as Cuba and Nicaragua. So this wave of migration is actually not from central America. As we saw in past waves. Most of these people are coming from south America and the Caribbean, which means that their journeys are longer and harder.

0 (10m 7s):
And when they get here, their immigration status is uncertain. They want asylum and they've been admitted to the us. But at some point in the next few years, they're gonna have to stand before an immigration judge and make the case that they should not be sent back home. Do the migrants coming in on the buses, understand what the governors of Texas and Arizona are doing. There's been a lot of reporting on this. And a lot of people feel like the state of Texas has been so generous to them by giving them this free ride to the east coast, where they have family or friends, the migrants I spoke to once they've spent a little bit of time in DC, have talked to the volunteers.

0 (10m 46s):
Then they start to understand that they're basically being shipped to another part of the country because the governor of Texas doesn't want them there. So the target of this is president Biden. Governor Abbott has made that clear has, has Biden said anything at all. I did reach out to the white house for comment and a spokesman. Abdu Hussan said this in a written statement.

12 (11m 9s):
As we have said repeatedly, there is a process in place to manage migrants at the border and Republican governors meddling in that process and using desperate migrants as political tools is shameful and it is wrong.

0 (11m 22s):
He added that the white house will continue to support migrants by giving FEMA grants to cities. But it's really been the mayors of DC and New York city. Who've gotten into a public war of words with

13 (11m 33s):
Abbott. It's unimaginable that what the governor of Texas has done. When you think about this country, a country that has always been opened to those who are fleeing a persecution

0 (11m 47s):
And other, and for months, the mayors have said that they are overburdened and want more involvement from the federal government.

2 (11m 54s):
Now mayors do a lot of things, but we are not responsible for a broken immigration system. What we need in this country is we need the Congress to do is job and fix this immigration system. Now,

0 (12m 7s):
Both Democrat, mayors and Republican governors are telling the federal government that they've left them holding the bag on immigration. When we come back, who should be supporting these people? Hey, folks, I wanna tell you about another show that I have heard is amazing.

0 (12m 47s):
It's called this is love. It's a podcast that takes a very broad view of love sharing stories, not just about romance, but also about people doing strange things. That mean a lot to them. Like someone who digs up old backyard outhouses to find hidden treasure and a group of people desperately trying to keep one type of tree alive. Some of the stories are really funny. There's an episode about a guy who puts on a huge pair of fake feet and makes tracks up and down the beach. He spends decades fooling his neighbors and some of the stories are heartwarming. They have won about a man who found a baby on a subway platform. Listen for stories about love and all of the surprising forms it can take.

0 (13m 27s):
You can subscribe to, this is love wherever you get podcasts.

15 (13m 36s):
The Iowa lottery was out there saying on a regular basis, Hey folks, check your ticket. Somebody's got 16 million bucks and it was sort of this mystery. Why hasn't anyone come forward?

16 (13m 47s):
I'm Phoebe judge host of the podcast, criminal, true stories about people who've done wrong. Been wronged or gotten caught somewhere in the middle, told by people who know them best like a man who successfully figured out how to negotiate with his father's kidnappers. After some trial and error,

17 (14m 4s):
They were just like, for that price, we won't even tell you where he's buried.

16 (14m 7s):
And a 12 year old who solved a family mystery.

0 (14m 10s):
There were three little fingerprints. And I remember in junior da camp, I was like, oh, fingerprints. This is definitely some evidence. Then we can find whoever broke into my grandmother's house,

16 (14m 21s):
Discover the unexpected side of true crime.

18 (14m 23s):
There were no security alarms whatsoever. The file cabinets were not even locked. So that gave us enough information to plan the actual break in,

16 (14m 33s):
Listen to criminal. Now, wherever you get your podcasts,

0 (14m 43s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. Hamaha the governor of Texas. Greg Abbott is trying to make a point. He says that border towns and cities are overburdened by the arrival of migrants and that the federal government needs to do more. Which raises a question that comes up a lot is the situation at the border today. Really any different than the one we've seen over the last years or even decades, if you consider the us Mexico border, it is true that there is a record number of attempts cross this year,

19 (15m 14s):
The us Mexico border and the capacity of DHS and C and ice and other agencies at the border has been overwhelmed.

0 (15m 21s):
This is Ariel Ruiz's Soto policy analyst with the migration policy Institute.

19 (15m 27s):
After we saw a decrease in 2020 from pandemic mobility restrictions, we're now beginning to see an increase again of numbers.

0 (15m 34s):
There have been about 1.9 million encounters at the us Mexico border. An encounter means the number of times, us customs and border protection observes people trying to enter the us. But that 1.9 million number as high as it sounds has a huge caveat.

19 (15m 52s):
Many of them include repeated attempts to migrate.

0 (15m 55s):
In other words, there aren't 1.9 million people trying to cross the border. There's 1.9 million attempts sometimes by the same people. So title 42, that pandemic public health order we talked about since it went into effect the us isn't detaining migrants for long periods of time, when they attempt to enter illegally it instead just pushes them back across the border. So say you're a person who has made this desperate attempt to cross the us Mexico border before you were pushed back. And now you've been stuck in a squalled camp or shelter in Mexico for months, you might try to cross again a second time, a third time, maybe even a fourth time.

0 (16m 38s):
Okay. So Greg Abbott and Doug Ducey put people on buses that forces DC and these other cities into difficult positions, DC then did what and does what well for five straight months, DC got a lot of flack from volunteers who are relying on private donations to feed in shelter migrants, but we're starting to see more action. Now, the attorney general announced a $150,000 fund that groups supporting migrants can apply to for financial assistance. But it's the emergency announcement from mayor Bowser on Thursday that got the most attention. The district is going to allocate 10 million for an office of migrant services.

0 (17m 23s):
And they said they will seek reimbursement from the federal government. For that,

2 (17m 27s):
I am creating, establishing a new office within the department of human services called the office of migrant services. This new office will, as I said, be housed in DHS and it will help us tailor our needs for migrants to provide reception services, reps, spit services, meals, transportation, urgent medical needs, transportation to connect people to resettlement services. And the, like

0 (17m 59s):
The mayor said in a press conference that the office is going to start operating soon. But it's really not clear when soon is to volunteers. This should have happened a long time ago in part because only 10 to 15% of the almost 9,000 migrants who are on these buses bound for DC actually stay in DC. So 10 to 15% of 9,000 is less than 1400 people

19 (18m 25s):
In total. Those numbers are not significantly high. You would expect that New York city, as well as in DC, even though smaller, that the both of those seas would be able to absorb this number of migrants and integrate and provide services for them rather easily.

0 (18m 41s):
I met two people who you could say are the reason Bower had to act. They arrived in DC a few months ago after a really difficult journey from Cuba.

21 (18m 53s):
When I started Antonio,

0 (18m 57s):
Anna and Antonio, aren't using their real names while their immigration status is still to be determined. Their young couple 28 and 30 years old and their babies only 13 weeks.

22 (19m 10s):
Were you pregnant when you were making the journey to the

20 (19m 13s):
Us?

23 (19m 16s):
Well, I just recently found out that I was pregnant. When I left Cuba. I left in January and I spent the entire journey with my belly growing. By the time I got to the border, I was already eight months pregnant, ready to give birth.

0 (19m 31s):
So they made the journey to the us by flying to Nicaragua. Then by walking and taking a series of buses to the us Mexico border,

23 (19m 41s):
It was the only option we had. Every time I talk about this, it makes me cry because it was hard. Our journey was hard, but here we are in the land of opportunity and we want to get ahead.

0 (19m 54s):
They didn't have any connections in the us. They didn't know where to go. So when they found out that there was this free bus, that would take them to the capital, it meant they could land somewhere. That wasn't the border. So they took the opportunity.

16 (20m 9s):
I was in the group that received the message that there's this couple with a pregnant wife.

0 (20m 15s):
This is Mera. She's a mutual aid volunteer who took the couple in, when they didn't know anyone else in the city.

16 (20m 21s):
I'm not even Christian, but all I could think about was the nativity story and how there was no room at the end for this eight month pregnant woman. And I just knew that they were going to be mine. And I would make sure that there is room at this in

0 (20m 36s):
The, in that Mera is talking about is her apartment.

16 (20m 41s):
We are four adults in one house. Yeah. And it's just a two bedroom, one bathroom. So it it's a

0 (20m 46s):
Little full, me's got her room.

16 (20m 49s):
And then we have my guest room. We've got our crib in here. We've got a big recliner chair that is great for mama breastfeeding.

0 (20m 58s):
The guest room is for mom, dad, and baby. And the couch downstairs is for their friend,

24 (21m 4s):
Jose,

0 (21m 5s):
Manuel Jose. Manuel is not his real name either. The couple says that Jose Manuel is like a brother to them. He arrived in DC shortly after they did. And after finding housing with me and being welcomed by volunteers, the city has really left a mark on him. And he's going to stick around until his case is adjudicated, which will take at least two years, he'll need a job, but he can't do that until he gets a work permit.

25 (21m 34s):
The first thing I would want is a work permit for them to help me get work, to guide me to my destiny.

0 (21m 43s):
There are other big order of businesses going to be staying on top of their immigration cases. The hard work for them is not over just because, you know, they've made it through the interior of the country.

19 (21m 54s):
There is a false sense of, of relief for many of the migrants who are arriving in New York city and Washington DC. Because a lot of what still is going to continue for them is to ensure that they actually attend their court hearings to seek asylum.

0 (22m 9s):
Basically migrants are responsible for keeping the courts updated about where they're moving. If they don't tell the courts that they have moved from Texas to the east coast, they might still be expected in a Texas court. And it's on them to arrange for a hearing that's somewhere closer.

19 (22m 26s):
The worst case scenario is if somebody who is coming on, these buses had originally a court hearing in Houston and ends up being in New York city, but doesn't find out about their court hearing. And then they unfortunately will miss it. They will then be considered removal in absentia because they did not show up to their court.

0 (22m 44s):
In other words, they can be deported. What is the best case scenario for Anna and Antonio and Jose Manuel, going to immigration court on the east coast could actually yield favorable results for them.

19 (22m 57s):
They actually may have a better chance of receiving a protection status either by refugee or to asylum. If they go to a court in New York state or New York city, for example, they tend to have larger approval ratings than in Texas or other states along the us Mexico border.

0 (23m 14s):
But more broadly, this could also be a chance for the Biden administration to implement that orderly humane policy that they've been talking about. The administration says it wants a whole of government approach where it will work with nonprofits, state, and local governments to address migration flows. Hmm. There are states out there that could be interested in receiving migrants and refugees because they've actually done it before.

19 (23m 39s):
We're talking states like California, Texas, Oregon. Usually the west coast has done this for Ukrainians and for Afghan refugees that it could be doable and possible in the future to see this as a potential mechanism of assistance. Instead as one that has so many logistical barriers,

0 (23m 55s):
I mean, that would be a terrific outcome for everybody involved here. If, if states are, if states are saying, we would like to take these people in, how likely is that to happen? It's a matter of whether or not there's the political will to make this happen. There is a midterm election around the corner and a poll shows that about half of Americans believe it's somewhat or completely true that there's an invasion at the border. So if the Biden administration decides that this is not a winning issue for them and doesn't act, and if governor Abbott is reelected for a third term, this will probably keep happening. Abbott has said, this will keep happening. And we're seeing that play out. I mean, just last week, migrant buses started arriving in

14 (24m 42s):
Chicago,

0 (24m 43s):
But regardless of how the government responds, volunteers are planning to continue being there for migrants. If you look at the lives of people like Anna, Antonio and Jose Manuel, it's very intertwined with me's. Now

16 (24m 57s):
They are helping me just as much as I'm helping them cooking dinner every night is a great example of that. But also they worry about me. They ask me if I'm okay, this is not a charity situation. This is humans being with other humans and taking care of each other.

0 (25m 19s):
And remember I mentioned that Anna and Antonio have a baby, that baby was born in the United States. She's American. Her parents said they want her to go to school here. They want her to go to college here. So even though Anna and Antonio's future is really uncertain in the us, they are really hopeful for their child today explains senior producer and reporter HOA shot. Thanks Halima. Thank you. Noel today's episode was reported and produced by Halima shot.

0 (26m 2s):
It was edited by Matthew collect and fact checked by Tori Dominguez and Serena Soland. It was engineered by AEM Shapiro and Paul Robert mosey special thanks to Claudia Hernandez and Diana who provided interpretation. It's today explained I'm Noel king.