1 (9s):
Bye. Now you've surely heard about Florida's don't say gay bill

2 (13s):
In Northeast Florida, district officials confirmed that students have at least four Duvall county schools and at least one St. John's county school staged similar demonstrations.

1 (22s):
It's understandably got a lot of people upset and it's left a lot of people confused.

4 (28s):
Yeah. Yeah. Like teachers can't speak about gay people in history, or if a kid has a gay family member

1 (36s):
And now Orlando's biggest employer is in a lot of hot water.

5 (42s):
I C K E Y. And on USC

1 (46s):
Today, we're going to try and understand what Florida's got against gayness and how the Walt Disney company got dragged into the middle of this culture war mess. It's today explained.

5 (59s):
Okay, bye. Have a USC

1 (1m 3s):
Support for the show. Today comes from a thorn. They're a health and tech company that saw the need for a science backed approach to preventative wellness and came up with the solution. Thorns testing helps you figure out what you need based on your results and your personal health goals. Instead of trusting you'll magically find the right products on your own thorn offers. High quality nutritional supplements, all backed by science. According to thorn to learn more, visit thorn.com that's T H O R N e.com to start your personalized health and wellness journey.

7 (1m 36s):
The number one half hour comedy on prime video is back in this futuristic satire. People can upload their consciousness to a luxurious digital afterlife. I

4 (1m 46s):
Can use a little vacation to

8 (1m 47s):
Me. Your life is

7 (1m 48s):
Vacation

9 (1m 48s):
And it's exhausting.

7 (1m 50s):
This season, Nathan, Noah, Luke, and Alicia team up to make uploading accessible for everyone.

10 (1m 55s):
We're taking this place out

7 (1m 57s):
From the guy who brought you the office and parks and recreation watch upload season one. Now, before season two comes out on March 11th, only on prime video.

1 (2m 13s):
All right. Robin's from today. Explain the first thing you got to know about Florida's don't say gay bill is that it's not actually called, don't say gay.

11 (2m 21s):
No, it's the parental rights and education bill.

1 (2m 25s):
Danielle prior is a reporter with 90.7 w M F E public radio in Orlando. She's been covering the story.

11 (2m 32s):
The idea is that parents should have more rights to decide kind of what children learn in classrooms. It's a big push of governor DeSantis and Republicans here in the state of Florida. And the idea is that parents should have some say in, you know, whether kids are learning about things that are considered age appropriate or depending on kind of which camp you're in.

12 (3m 2s):
So I think we've strengthened parental involvement to say, look, you're in charge. And so we're going to Petra protect your rights to be in charge and give you some tools in which to carry that out.

1 (3m 14s):
It turns out this isn't the first time Florida has tried to sensor what schools can talk about in the classroom.

11 (3m 20s):
We've seen bills, like don't say gay, we've seen bills like the stop woke act a bill. That's also on its way to the governor's desk. And that bands critical race theory and classrooms and bands, conversations about history that makes students uncomfortable. Right? So if you think about, you know, teaching slavery in classrooms or the civil rights movement or things like that, you would have to be very careful about how you talk about certain things in the activities that you do to teach that history. So as not to make someone quote uncomfortable. And so we've seen bills here in Florida, which are all trying to kind of decide what kids learn, what they can discuss and what they can read in classrooms, whether that's talking about LGBTQ people or black and brown people.

1 (4m 11s):
And what is the parental rights and education bill, or don't say gay explicitly say about, I don't know, saying gay, I guess,

11 (4m 19s):
You know, it's so vague, Sean. It really is. It's this idea that, you know, kids in kindergarten through third grade classrooms, won't be able to discuss gender identity and sexuality. Hm.

13 (4m 30s):
So the bill at its core prohibit schools from discouraging or prohibiting parental notification and involvement in critical decisions that affect the student's mental, emotional, or physical wellbeing, but it is the clause about restrictions on teaching LGBTQ topics. It's gotten the most attention

11 (4m 46s):
That could mean so many different things, right? It could mean, you know, a kindergarten or maybe couldn't read a book about someone having two mommies and two daddies, or it could be, you know, a second grade classroom, if they usually do, you know, one of those like family tree craft projects that will they be able to talk about their transgender brother or sister, right. When they're, when they're kind of displaying their family tree proudly in the classroom. And another part is that even the older kids in middle school and high school, won't be able to talk about LGBTQ content if it's considered quote, age inappropriate. Hm.

13 (5m 23s):
Initially the Bill's language said that schools could not encourage discussion, but that was criticized for being way too broad. So discussion was changed to instruction.

11 (5m 32s):
And also the bill allows schools and school districts to out a child, to their parent or guardian. So if a child was to talk to a teacher or a counselor and say, Hey, I think I may be gay. Or I think I might be trans districts unless this information would cause harm in some way to the child are required to share that with families. But the

13 (5m 55s):
Bill sponsor did file a controversial amendment that would have essentially erased that exception, that amendment, however, was withdrawn before the vote on the bill

1 (6m 4s):
With how much our schools and children talking about sexual orientation and gender identity in kindergarten through the third grade as it is,

11 (6m 14s):
I would assume not much. I was a high school teacher actually, before I was a journalist. And I can tell you that the only time we really talked about those issues, at least in my English classroom is, you know, it would come up in books. So there would be gay characters. There would be trans characters in books. But other than that, not much, I mean, I could imagine like maybe a history teacher would talk about maybe like LGBTQ civil rights, history, Stonewall, Harvey, milk, that sort of thing. But I can't imagine, especially in the lower grades, unless like I said, it's in a book or maybe like in a movie or something like that, but even then I would assume it would be pretty rare.

1 (6m 53s):
What does the bill say about what happens if a teacher does bring up sexual orientation or, or, or gender identity in say a third grade classroom, what happens to that teacher?

11 (7m 6s):
So basically it opens the door for lawsuits on surprisingly. And so school districts and school boards, I think are very nervous right now to see what will happen. If a parent decides, you know, what my child, you know, like I said, read a book about gay people in class and I'm upset about this. And now I'm going to Sue the school district, Sue the school board, whether that'll be found to kind of hold water or not is uncertain at this time. But I think it's a concern. And unfortunately it'll probably have a chilling effect on teachers when they're lesson planning,

1 (7m 38s):
Unlike the stop woke act, though, which I suppose we've been seeing stuff like that against critical race theory across the country. Now governor DeSantis and other legislators in Florida want to police conversations about queerness. And last time I checked, there are a whole lot of queer people in Florida.

11 (7m 59s):
There are, there are, and there's even out people in the state legislature, some of whom you've seen like Carlos Guillermo Smith, who has been fighting against this, don't say gay bill for four months. Now,

14 (8m 13s):
There is nothing inappropriate about a visibility for LGBTQ families. LGBTQ Floridians are a healthy and normal part of every society and every school

11 (8m 26s):
And is really concerned about how this is going to affect LGBTQ kids, mental health. We know that those kids tend to have higher rates of anxiety, depression, and suicidal ideation, and they also tend to have higher rates of homelessness. And so I think he's really concerned. And a lot of LGBTQ advocates in the state are really concerned about, you know, if you are telling kids that innately who they are is inappropriate and making them scared to come out in schools, you know, what is this going to do to this very, very vulnerable set of kids throughout the state?

16 (9m 10s):
Over 200 people gathering outside Disney calling for action, The aids healthcare foundation, holding two rallies, one in Florida and the other in California, the goal call on Disney to speak out against the parental rights and education bill.

11 (9m 27s):
They are taking to the streets. We have kids throughout the state who have staged walkouts

2 (9m 32s):
<em></em> Even in the holes of the state

0 (9m 38s):
Capitol.

2 (9m 41s):
Just one bill was on the minds of thousands of students across the sunshine state. The don't say

11 (9m 46s):
We've seen caravans honking and holding signs. I think my favorite was trans kids are magical to Disney, but basically, you know, the idea that like, there are a lot of people in this state, not just gay people, but allies as well, right? Their family and their friends who are really taking to the streets and letting people know that they don't support these measures. There's people, you know, boycotting Disney now because of it's kind of late addition to the game, huh?

1 (10m 16s):
What's up with Disney. Well, how does Disney get involved here?

11 (10m 19s):
Disney has been called on for several weeks now to oppose this bill. And it took CEO, Bob CapEx, several weeks of demonstrations, not just here in Florida, but also in California at the theme parks there to finally speak up and say that he was concerned. And you know, the problem is that it was only after the bill passed both the Florida house and the Senate that he kind of came forward and said, okay,

17 (10m 44s):
Called governor DeSantis this morning to express our disappointment and concern that if legislation becomes law, it could be used to unfairly target, gay, lesbian non-binary and transgender kids and families.

11 (10m 58s):
So it's like a little too late type thing there's walkouts happening all throughout this week. There's going to be a huge walkout throughout the country on March 22nd at Disney theme parks. And the idea there is like, why did it take so long for <em></em> to oppose this bill? And because he's waited so long, will it be enough to really stop it from becoming law? He's supposed to meet with the governor still and a small delegation of castmates who are LGBTQ, but we haven't seen that yet. And it's very unclear of when the governor is going to sign this into law. And so I think a lot of people are just very concerned because Disney is one of our biggest employers here in Florida.

11 (11m 39s):
They're one of the biggest kind of economic players in the state. And they have a lot of LGBTQ employees.

1 (11m 45s):
And is the thinking here that Disney has enough power to throw around in flora that they can just shut this legislation down.

11 (11m 53s):
I think the thinking is that maybe if they'd spoken earlier, they would have been able to write kind of as Disney goes. So does the rest of Florida. And I was so fascinated by this cause I'm not from Florida, I'm from Michigan, but at the beginning of the pandemic, when Disney closed down their parks, that's when everybody else closed down their parks, you know, then you saw universal and SeaWorld.

1 (12m 14s):
Does Disney try and stay out of politics in Florida or, or is the company very involved?

11 (12m 19s):
No, for the most part, at least with the new CEO Bob Tapad they have. And I think that, you know, this is a tricky bill in, in the sense of, you know, there are some parents that are forward and some parents that are against it, and I'm sure that the company feels like they have to walk a fine line, but I think you're going to see more and more protests and demonstrations from workers. And not only does Disney support every single sponsor and co-sponsor on this bill politically with their contributions, but also have effectively censored any same sex attraction in recent movies and scripts that have come forward. And so they're arguing that like not only does the company support this legislation, but also really kind of is not letting them tell stories that are, you know, stories that should be told of LGBTQ kids and families, because those people are watching movies as well.

11 (13m 12s):
Right? And they love Disney too.

1 (13m 14s):
So Disney tries to remain above the political fray, but it's actually sponsoring a bunch of these legislators who are behind this, don't say gay bell.

11 (13m 23s):
Yes. They've actually politically contributed, let's say two campaigns of every single sponsor. And co-sponsor on this bill. They've directly obviously supported governor DeSantis, the Republican party of Florida. They also sponsor and support a bunch of Democrats. You know what I mean? We saw last week that they came out and said, you know, they're going to pause political contributions. They're going to reevaluate their framework of political giving and that they're going to support more LGBTQ non-profits. But then we saw, you know, they tried to donate to the human rights campaign and the human rights campaign wouldn't take the donation.

1 (14m 0s):
Sounds like it's not going to be the happiest place on earth for awhile.

11 (14m 6s):
I'm not sure. You know, I think that sometimes it's through these difficult times, right. That you can come out happier in the end. I hope maybe that it is through this hard moment, that it becomes a happier place maybe for all workers and for all people. And especially when it comes to the content and the stories that they tell, maybe this will finally make the difference that so many people have been waiting to see

18 (14m 33s):
When you wish up on his door,

1 (14m 37s):
Disney's complicated relationship with the gays in a minute until they explained

19 (14m 54s):
This is advertiser content from the American cancer society.

20 (14m 58s):
My name is Tracy Kimbro, and this is a letter to my sister. Cheryl, we've always known that cancer runs in our family. But when you were diagnosed in 2002, I struggle to believe it through surgery, chemo, radiation, and all the treatment side effects. You found ways to help the family process what was happening. You never let us see you be afraid though, looking back. I know you must have been, it was five years later almost to the day when I got my own breast cancer diagnosis. You were the first person I called later. We found out a BRCA gene mutation is why our family is at such high risk for breast and other cancers.

20 (15m 40s):
I am thankful my cancer was detected early and that we acted quickly because of your experience. You helped me get the best possible care. I never thought I could be here without you, but after being in remission for 12 years, your cancer returned, I will forever fight to help others. So no one has to go through this alone. You were the best sister in the world, my best friend and my rock. I miss you. And I love you. Love

21 (16m 11s):
Tracy.

19 (16m 14s):
Black women are 41% more likely to die of breast cancer than white women. Despite lower incidents. There are systemic factors like racism and barriers to healthcare that make breast cancer outcomes worse for black women to learn more about how the American cancer society is addressing cancer disparities, visit cancer.org/health equity

1 (16m 40s):
Support for the show today comes from Pushkin industries. And maybe you're wondering like, what do they make? You know, sneakers lawnmowers. Now they make podcasts. Their new podcast is called against the rules. Bestselling author. Michael Lewis takes a hard look at what's happening to fairness in American life. He's explored referees and coaches. And now he's taking on a new group experts. When some people think of an expert, they might think of a person who's dedicated their life's work to learning about a specific subject. But why is the less people are willing to hear what they have to say? Michael Lewis wants to know y'all Michael ventures around the world to meet experts in their field. Like the oceanographer who has saved countless lives only to have survivors be unaware of who he is.

1 (17m 25s):
You can listen to against the rules wherever you get your podcasts. Michael Lewis Pushkin industries, experts against the rules.

22 (17m 43s):
Oh my gosh. You ever seen anything so wonderful. Your entire life

1 (17m 52s):
Today explained we're back. Alex Abad Santos writes about culture for VOCs, which means he sometimes writes about Disney critically, but he's not going to lie. He's got a favorite Disney movie,

23 (18m 6s):
Obviously little mermaid, Sebastian flounder.

1 (18m 10s):
And as a kid, he had a little Disney obsession.

23 (18m 14s):
I grew up in orange county, California, 20 minutes away from Disneyland. I almost didn't graduate because I skipped so much school and was just always at Disneyland or oh, is at the mall. And so those are the, like, if you ever have children growing up closest to the scene and know that they're going to probably skip school one day and go enjoy a ditch day at Disneyland.

1 (18m 37s):
Now he's less of a Disney adult.

23 (18m 40s):
So I think when you think about Disney, you hell so have like Disney adults, right? Who like spend a lot of their money and disposable income on going and having these vacations at the park of those Disney adults. There's probably a subsection of like, we'll call them Disney, gays, or queer people that love Disney. And it's just something about Disney resonates with them When it comes to LGBTQ Disney people there's even like a holiday. Well like an unofficial holiday where it called gay days.

24 (19m 13s):
Hey, what's up? It's been said to be that here. And I'm at the magic kingdom very obviously. And I'm having a great time. It's gay days having the gayest updates.

23 (19m 24s):
And it happens at Disney parks in the U S so not officially sponsored by Disney started in the nineties. Gay people go, they wear a red t-shirt

24 (19m 33s):
Straight people. Don't wear that.

23 (19m 35s):
It's this day of visibility. And you all go and celebrate like a day of gay pride at the park. When you talk to LGBTQ Disney fans, you talk to them and you get the sense that like these stories resonate with them. And so I think like when you take the little mermaid Ariel lives in this under seeking dumb, where she just is, I guess doesn't want to sing in her dad's and musicals. Her dad is a giant buff guy, but she falls in love with a man who there everyone's like, you can't go up there. You can't live in that world. It's not for you. That's the bad place. And I mean, that's the metaphor. I think for queer people who have ever been told, like, you have to live with us, but deep down, you know, that you can't really survive.

23 (20m 19s):
And all the stuff that you love is somewhere else. And so I think there's an allegory there, a seamless allegory, same thing with beauty and the beast. It's just like, you're supposed to fall in love with someone that they say you're supposed to fall in love with not a beast. But I also think that like, if you look at any Disney movie, even like frozen, or even like in condo or even marijuana, there's this whole idea of like, if you're yourself, that's like the most powerful self you can be. And I think for people who have often been told that is something wrong or that this world isn't built for them, those are very empowering things that resonate with them.

1 (20m 57s):
So does Disney do anything to more proactively support the LGBTQ community or is it all sort of suggestion and innuendo and some pride merchandise?

23 (21m 8s):
If you look back in like the nineties Disney has been kind of good to its employees, like when partner benefits and domestic partner benefits for gay people, wasn't really a thing. They extended those health benefits to their employees. If you look at the company, there are some key LGBTQ creators who played a part in creating some of the best movies or what we associate with Disney today. Like the little mermaid beauty and the beast and Aladdin,

25 (21m 38s):
I think I've been quiet. You know what I mean?

23 (21m 42s):
The big touchstones for queer people who are fans of Disney as Howard Ashman,

27 (21m 48s):
And my background is in musical theater. And it's interesting, cause I do think there's a very, very strong connection and application between the two.

23 (21m 57s):
He's a lyricist genius. He wrote little shop of horrors

28 (22m 2s):
On feed me now

23 (22m 4s):
And then went to Disney and help create songs for the little mermaid and Aladdin

30 (22m 10s):
Prince Ali,

31 (22m 13s):
Prince Ali Baba.

23 (22m 15s):
He died of aids before Aladdin was finished. But before then he was working on BD and the peace, which, I mean, a lot of queer people take as an allegory for living with aids or falling in love with the gay person. I think there's a line in the beauty and the beast song. That's like everyone's a little bit scared and neither one prepared. I mean, not dry from my own experience, but what queer person isn't scared to fall in love with someone that they're not supposed to. I feel like those are very like distinct parallels between Howard Ashman songwriting. And I guess like the queer experience.

26 (22m 51s):
Oh, to say the least that little scan, not a one trip beauty and the beast

1 (23m 2s):
Does Disney acknowledge the fact that Howard Ashman was gay, that he died of aids.

23 (23m 9s):
Disney released a documentary about Howard Ashman it's streaming on Disney plus I believe,

29 (23m 14s):
But it was such a poignant contrast, the joy and the magic of that movie and the, and the, and the fact that he was literally staring death in the face of the age of 39.

23 (23m 30s):
But one of the big criticisms of that documentary was that him being gay was such a small part of it. And him dying of aids was such a small part of it. And I don't think that people wanted like Disney going long and hard and deep on the aids crisis, but they wanted like it's queer fans wanting to see like, Hey, well this is a man who probably drew from his own experience

1 (23m 50s):
Fair to say that like Disney supports the queer community to a point that's the vibe I'm getting what their sort of treatment of Ashman in this documentary.

23 (23m 58s):
I mean, I think a lot of the criticism that comes with Disney as a it's earned, and if you talk to it, the biggest fans, it's like, they're always waiting for Disney to kind of catch up. You have all this subtexts in these stories and you have all this like rich history of some key creators being LGBTQ and helping to make some iconic movies at the same time, visible representation and visible inclusion has kind of been lagging. And so those, I guess those queer fans are just like, well, when are you going to catch up to us? Like, we've waited a very long time. And I think that's happening with this bill kind of it's, it's kind of this realization that this company that you've been waiting for and you've been like, hoping for is kind of like dragging its feet a little bit.

23 (24m 46s):
And it's not just Disney, but it's also star wars and Marvel. And, and like, you have to think about those two. And it's like Disney as the company has said like, well, we want more diverse stories. We want more inclusive movies. And then there's an expectation there that like, okay, well, let's see if your company matches up to that. And then you can't support your LGBTQ fans and your LGBTQ employees against the spill. That's basically saying we don't want our children to learn about like how someone having two moms basically, or someone having two dads and that's, that's hurtful. I could see where that hurt comes from from people who were expecting better.

1 (25m 27s):
Alex Abad Santos is a cultured writer at Vox. He's not, not a Disney game earlier in the show you heard from Danielle prior, she's reported with 90.7 w M F E public radio in Orlando, you can find and support her work at w M F E dot O R G Halima shop made our show today. She had the Velcro Milan shoes as a kid, not the light-up ones though. We were fact checked by Laura Bullard. Here's a fact, the back room in Homeward bound was one of the first things Laura ever had nightmares about. Another fact, Peter pan was the first movie. Our engineer, a FIM Shapiro saw in the United States after immigrating from Israel.

1 (26m 8s):
I'm Sean Rama's for him. I went to see toy story three in the theater alone, 12 years ago in Santa Cruz, California, and sobbed in the dark at the ending. I edited the shutter day. Along with Matthew Collette, whose favorite Disney movie is the empire strikes back. He'd like to remind you, the movie has a princess it's today explained