0 (1s):
Last November today explained, did an episode about Argentina's runoff election. On one side you had a colorless economic minister. I

1 (9s):
Mean, SGIO Masa has about as much as charisma as a wooden

0 (12s):
Plank on the other side, a chainsaw wielding, mutton, chopped and narco capitalist who cloned his dead dog five times. And guess which guy won?

3 (22s):
Javier? Malay won. And this past weekend, Noel, he paid us a visit in Washington DC at cpac. On stage, he was talking about his economic agenda. Backstage, he was awkwardly hugging Donald Trump. They kept repeating this refrain that they're gonna make Argentina break

0 (37s):
The game

3 (38s):
Back home. He's inflicting a ton of economic pain on Argentines and the majority of them are okay with it.

0 (46s):
At least that's what we heard. So Sean, I put you on a plane and sent you to investigate.

3 (50s):
I went all the way to Argentina to find out what their crazy inflation can teach us about hours. And I'm gonna tell you all about it on today. Explained

‎The Gray Area  (1m 1s):
Is AI really a threat to humanity? This week on the gray area, Tyler Austin Harper gives us his take on today's extinction panic. I think we need to resist panic, and I think we need to resist pessimism. And. we need to be realistic and not pink glosson. But there are ways in which we can meet the challenges. And we've met similar seemingly unthinkable ones in the past. That's this week on the gray area available wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (1m 41s):
It is today explained ab Noel King with our man in Argentina, Sean Ramas firm. You leapt headfirst into the economic crisis in Argentina, where?

3 (1m 51s):
Yeah, I started in Florida. Florida Street, Buenos, Aires. It's the sort of center of currency exchange in the city. All you hear up and down the street is, it means change. Everyone is offering change. All these people yelling cambio, they call themselves Atos, which means little tree. And I asked one ar Edgar, the atos says he's called a little tree because he's stuck all day working in one spot until someone wants to do some currency exchange.

3 (2m 35s):
That's when he'll take you to a close by Cueva, which means cave. But in this case, the Cueva looks more like a janky western union

0 (2m 44s):
And people exchanging what for what

3 (2m 46s):
They're exchanging Argentine pesos for US dollars. This is probably the biggest black market for US dollars in the country. Maybe in the hemisphere it's illegal because they're changing currency for a different rate than the official government rate. But literally no one cares. There's cops everywhere. Just watching this happen. Everybody's doing it. The second Argentines in Buenos Aires get paid. They figure out their budgets, how much they need for groceries, how much they need for the nanny, what have you, and then they try and convert the rest into a stable currency so they can save AKA US dollars. It's estimated that Argentines have something like 250 billion US dollars in cash under their mattresses stowed away and, and people are especially in need of Atos Right now because inflation is out of control and prices for everything are jumping just about weekly.

0 (3m 49s):
Give us an example of that.

3 (3m 50s):
Yeah, lemme tell you actually, from my own personal experience, I was in Argentina reporting the story. Everywhere I go, there's no spice, there's no hot sauce on the table. It was very painful for me, but, but one day I'm walking by this small scale, whole foods type, little natural grocery store. And they have all the things I've been missing in Argentina. They've got my hot sauce, they've got my oat milk, they've got my spicy water. But what they don't have is any prices listed anywhere. Not a price in sight.

0 (4m 22s):
Sorry. Are they just winging it? Are they just winging

3 (4m 25s):
The prices? They're not, no, they, they know what everything costs, but none of the customers do. So if you wanna know, you have to ask. But I didn't because I wasn't trying to be like the annoying foreign guy in the store where no one else was asking. So I just picked up like six items, took them to the counter, and my total was 42,000 pesos, which is like over 40 bucks. And then I really wished that I had been the annoying foreign guy asking what each and every item had cost. Several days later I decided I had to go back to natural soho, this grocery store in this neighborhood called Palermo, to ask Marcelo Gomez, who runs it, CIOs Balo and se, he said his story had been operating for six years.

3 (5m 8s):
So I asked him if the prices had ever gone down in that period. Never since I was born, prices have never gone down. But prices had been displayed at Soho Natural until recently until Malay entered office.

9 (5m 26s):
It's

3 (5m 27s):
A little uncomfortable for the client to have to ask us. They don't like doing it. It doesn't bother us, but we see that they don't like doing it. There's no alternative.

0 (5m 36s):
Alright, so you have a situation in which Argentina has terrible inflation, Javier, Malay, trots into office saying he's gonna make the economy better. And what you're telling me is instead terrible inflation got even worse. What did Malay do?

3 (5m 51s):
Well, yeah, so inflation is bad. Before Malay enters office, you could say that's probably how he entered office in the first place. People wanted change. Mm. But he actually promised that things would get worse before they got better. Ah-Huh? This is something he's calling shock therapy.

10 (6m 11s):
The bottom line is there's no alternative to austerity and no alternatives to shock treatment

3 (6m 17s):
Fuel the pain now so we can reap the gains later. So Malay gets into office and immediately cuts government spending, lays off thousands of government employees, cuts, transit subsidies, and probably most important of all, he devalues the Argentine peso. He cuts the value of the country's currency in half to bring the government rate closer to what people are getting from that black market. On Florida Street.

12 (6m 44s):
We have inherited what we call a repressed inflation that is already inf furling. And that, as I explained earlier, is a consequence of the lag of the ultra expansionary monetary policy of the last four years and of price controls that never work in the long run,

3 (7m 0s):
Which meant everything immediately got way more expensive for everyone. Inflation shot up to 250% and more than half the country now is living under the poverty line

12 (7m 13s):
For a few months. We will be worse off than before, particularly in terms of inflation.

0 (7m 23s):
Alright, so he made a promise. People elected him, he made good on the promise, it's gonna get bad. And what's been the response? Are Argentines furious?

3 (7m 31s):
Hell yeah. They are. Ah, in fact, labor groups and a ton of state employees and students who feel like their jobs or benefits or or status were under attack, banded together to stage a historic general strike on January 24th.

0 (7m 50s):
What was it like? What

3 (7m 51s):
Did you hear? I was most impressed, firstly by the fact that it felt like a political protest. Yes. But it felt like it was mixed with Mardi Gras or something. Hmm. There was chanting, there was music. People were like moshing, there was pyro. People were drinking, people were smoking. There were posters of Che, there were posters of Evita and there was a retiree named Eduardo Mamu walking around chanting something very specific, which means I need shade.

3 (8m 34s):
I need shade, because it was a super hot sunny day. But he seemed hilarious. So I asked him why he decided to come out,

14 (8m 45s):
Eh?

3 (8m 46s):
He said he didn't wanna sell off the country. Millet wants to privatize just about everything and sell off Argentina's natural resources to the highest bidder. There was another guy, Juan Nunez, who was walking around banging on a casserole dish. He's, he's called a cas. I asked him what he was doing out there on that hot day

14 (9m 12s):
Ca Toyota.

3 (9m 14s):
And he said he was actually out there every day. He was protesting this huge on thebus Bill Malay was and still is trying to pass. That would completely cut a bunch of state agencies slash energy subsidies and extend his executive powers. Belay wants to be the king. He wants the power of Congress. That's why I protest. I'm a liberal thinker. I want there to be a budget surplus so that taxes come down. But I wouldn't make myself king to do those things. We have democracy, the legislative branch, the executive branch, the judicial branch, are all supposed to share power. Malay wants all the power to himself.

3 (9m 55s):
I heard this particular critique over and over from young and old and worker and retiree and student. Most countries try to protect their industries and protect their own. This man is not doing that. What he's doing is increasing hunger, poverty, and inequality.

0 (10m 15s):
Okay? And yet a majority of Argentinians decided when they voted for the president, this is the guy, we want, the guy who wants to privatize everything. The guy who's like, get the government out of our lives, what are they saying in his defense?

3 (10m 28s):
What I couldn't get over was how many people I spoke to who were kind of down to clown. Hmm. People who wanna let this anco, capitalist, hardcore libertarian, cook, Right. now basically outside of the general strike, almost all I heard was that, you know, we should give him a chance. I heard this from a guy named Fado at a Japanese cafe just off Florida Street. At least he's an economist. He's also an expert that should be enough to make a solid foundation for the country's economy. I heard this from Claudia back in Palermo. We have to give him some time, right?

3 (11m 8s):
He just took office. So we'll see. He has four years to govern and to show what he can do if he follow his policies. So we'll see, in four years, and I heard this from Marcelo back at the grocery store with no prices, a country like Argentina, which is a rich country in so many ways, if everyone goes along with this plan to make things better, we'll all benefit time. And again, I heard from Argentines who whether they proudly voted for Malay or held their noses while they were doing it, or whether they didn't vote for him at all, they were willing to suffer through his shock therapy to see if his policies might work in the long term.

3 (11m 55s):
And it wasn't just people I spoke to. Polling suggests that even though half the country is now living in poverty, even though prices everywhere are going up, a majority of the country wants to give Malay a chance.

17 (12m 8s):
That's

0 (12m 9s):
It. And you're gonna tell me why when we come back, you're

3 (12m 12s):
Gonna have me back.

0 (12m 13s):
Sure am.

Mint Mobile (12m 26s):
Support for the show day comes from Mint Mobile. Some of the best things in life are made way better with a good sauce. I actually really agree with that. Mint Mobile, I was recently without sauce and life was bleak. Anyway. Mint Mobile secret sauce is that they sell their wireless service totally online. That's how the company says they can save on retail costs and pass those savings onto you. And that lets them sell premium wireless plans starting at just $15 a month. To get this new customer offer and your new three month unlimited wireless plan for just 15 bucks a month, you can go to mint mobile.com/explained. That's mint mobile.com/explained. You can cut your wireless bill to 15 bucks a month at mint mobile.com/explained. Additional taxes, fees and restrictions apply. See Mint Mobile for details.

0 (13m 29s):
Hey, before we get back to the show, here's something fun today explained is going to South by Southwest in Austin this year I'm interviewing Charlemagne, the God host of the Breakfast Club. We're gonna talk about President Biden's problem with black voters, polls, also vibes. And a data suggest that black men are growing more interested in Donald Trump this election season. What's going on?

Atlassian (13m 50s):
I'm hosting a special live show on March 10th on the official Vox Media podcast stage at South by Southwest, sponsored by Atlassian. The stage is also gonna host live episodes of Stay Tuned with Preet on with Kara Swisher. Where should we begin with? Aire Perel. Brene Brown will be there. What? And other shows from the Vox Media Podcast Network. If you can't make it to Austin, I completely understand. You can hear my interview in your podcast feed on Monday, March 11th. Two Radio, Hosts, Charlamagne, and Noel. For the price of one, it's gonna be great. Visit Vox media.com/live to learn more. That's Vox media.com/lot.

0 (14m 34s):
It's today explained. We're back with Sean Ramesh Ramesh Rum Rames. Sean Rameswaram.

3 (14m 41s):
It's pronounced Ramis Swami.

0 (14m 45s):
Okay, in in these United States, Sean inflation hit about 8%. Two years ago it felt very high. It was very high. But meanwhile, you're telling me that under Argentina's President Javier mullet inflation peaked above 200%. And yet you got people out in the street telling you, let's let him do his thing. Let's see what happens. How, why? What

3 (15m 10s):
I asked Mariana Luzi, she's a sociologist based in Buenos Aires who writes a lot about the economy in Argentina. She actually wrote a whole book about it. She said, if you knew Argentina's economic history, you would not be surprised by people's support of melee Right. now, so

18 (15m 25s):
For us, inflation, it's a very particular thing I think that we fear, of course. But compared to the time when we had 3000% inflation a year, this situation, it's not the worst. We, we can imagine

3 (15m 41s):
Like 3000% inflation. We cannot forget that Argentina in living memory had 3000% inflation. Jesus

0 (15m 49s):
Murphy. Is that, is that recent?

3 (15m 51s):
This was in the late eighties Noel when you and I were listening to the Cure or whatever it was after a series of unsuccessful economic programs from left leaning governments that this country found itself in like terrible economic shape.

18 (16m 10s):
You go to the supermarket in the morning and the prices of the groceries are at some point. And when you go back in the afternoon, the prices are different, are higher. People

3 (16m 21s):
Couldn't buy food. So they were stealing it. It was a chaotic time. But the government manages to recover by pegging the Argentine peso to the US dollar. $1 equals one peso that works for a while until there's a recession and people start trying to pull out all their pesos from the bank to convert them into dollars.

19 (16m 43s):
They scream at deface and kick the metal sheeting, shielding bank windows.

20 (16m 48s):
The banks don't wanna return our our money. They wanna to ruin our money.

3 (16m 56s):
The government freezes people's bank accounts. People cannot take their own money out of the bank.

18 (17m 1s):
They turn what was at the beginning deposits in US dollars. Two deposits in Argentina pesos not respecting the original equivalence between the two currencies.

3 (17m 16s):
Eventually people are allowed to access their savings again. But by that point, their pesos had lost half their value.

21 (17m 23s):
One of the headlines, Washingtonians are waking up to this morning from the Washington Times Argentina Beyond the Brink. Argentina is in a free fall. Its economy is shattered. It can't pay. Its huge debts at home or abroad. Its political. Leaders are befuddled and desperate military leaders are grumbling. There's looting riot and death in the streets and nobody sees the end of it yet.

3 (17m 45s):
I try to imagine Joe Biden confiscating savings accounts. It'd be January 6, 6, 6 out in dc. Noel

0 (17m 54s):
Would never happen. Would never happen, we hope. But, but in Argentina you're talking about things that happened in the 1980s, long before I was born in the 1990s, in the two thousands, still a long time ago. What's been going on more recently?

3 (18m 10s):
Well, Noel, do you remember the global COVID-19 pandemic?

0 (18m 14s):
I knew her well. Yeah,

3 (18m 15s):
It was rough everywhere as you'll recall. But it was extra rough in Argentina because they didn't just like have pandemic related inflation. They were going into the pandemic with inflation.

18 (18m 27s):
Inflation was already around 45% a year in 2019. So when the pandemic hit and all this inflation related problems started to be a concern everywhere else in Argentina, we already had a quite serious problem with inflation. So the situation of course got worse.

3 (18m 51s):
And actually during the pandemic, when everyone was just sitting around watching TV with nothing to do, there was this guy with a funny haircut and, and huge sideburns who would show up on all the talk shows talking mad smack about the leftist government and its policies and how everyone was corrupt and needed to be chased out of office. And guess who it was? Noel

0 (19m 14s):
Was his name. Javier.

3 (19m 18s):
Javier. Melay. Nailed it.

22 (19m 22s):
They are desperate. They are losing the cultural battle. The shitty lefties are cornered for the first time. The shitty lefties are cornered.

3 (19m 30s):
Malay got on the TV and said, look at what these corrupting lefty governments have wrought. Their policies are bunk, their economies are bunk. And fast forward to December, 2023, he becomes the president in a runoff election.

23 (19m 44s):
Mr. Melane known as El Loko or the madman pulled off a major upset provisional results show the self-styled, an Arco capitalist won with 55.7% of the vote compared to 44% for his rival.

3 (19m 57s):
Voters were so cynical about politicians' ability to deal with inflation that they were willing to try this far right. And narco capitalist tantric sex teacher who

0 (20m 10s):
Got elected, not because he's great in bad, he might be, but he got elected because he was like, I can fix the economy. I've got a program. Here you are down there. Are you seeing any evidence that Malays program is working?

3 (20m 22s):
You know, it's early, but he has had a few small wins already. The country has more cash on hand and it's got a little less debt. Hmm. But as far as how people are responding, a lot of people say he's still in his honeymoon phase. He entered office in December and then people immediately went on vacation. It was Christmas, it was New Year's, it was just carnival. Kids are only now going back to school and parents are just getting back to business in Argentina. So it's in March that people think. We might see how the country really responds to how hard a hit they're taking economically. And we'll see where it goes from there.

0 (21m 0s):
Hmm. I mean, it's tempting to think we might find something instructive here. Inflation is on the top of everybody's mind in the United States. But you're talking about a country that has experienced in our lifetime 3000% inflation. Argentina seems to just be Argentina, which is not to discount or give up on Argentina, but there's not like a lesson here. Is there?

3 (21m 24s):
I think there is. Yeah. Courtesy of my sociologist Mariana Luzi.

18 (21m 27s):
One of the things that is very important is to not consider inflation as the only problem. One of the problem with inflation is that it keeps all the attention. It gets all the attention It appears to be as the main feature we have to attack as the only problem, as the only concern we should have. And what Argentina's history tell us is that you can solve the problem of inflation and still have very heavy economic problems.

3 (22m 3s):
Argent has got plenty of other problems beyond inflation. They've got government debt coming outta their ears. They've got government spending problems that Malay ISS trying to address. Malay wants to do with all of this stuff, but at this point it doesn't seem like he's terribly capable of building coalitions in Congress to do it. He doesn't have experience. He's antagonizing. He's learning on the job and he's still got a lot of learning to do. But, but one thing that's working in his favor is that Argentina has kind of seen it all here. Nothing makes sense. Everything is like a lottery. It's fun sometimes because sometimes you win the lottery, but in general you lose.

9 (22m 42s):
No,

3 (22m 43s):
This is Marcelo again from the grocery store with no prices. Even after everything his country's been through, he has faith in his government. He has faith in its institutions. We have to be patient and wait anyways. We made our choice democratically. This is the system of government we have. We chose a president so that during his term he would lead the country And. we have to respect that. We will have the opportunity to vote again and show whether he did good or bad.

5 (23m 15s):
Hmm.

3 (23m 16s):
It was kind of incredible to me that this dude who runs a grocery store with no prices on display, where where prices are doubling month to month, was advocating for patients that he still had time for patients.

0 (23m 30s):
So as Americans go to the polls in November and and are thinking about inflation and debt and spending and a paralyzed Congress and potentially a leader that only half of us really want, do you think we should remember Marcelo and Argentina?

3 (23m 48s):
I think so. I mean, I was constantly comparing everything I was hearing and seeing in Argentina to what we've got in the United States. Not just because melee is making all this noise, but because you know, 8% inflation in 2022 was pretty shocking for a lot of Americans. And I don't want to knock that response. It was comparatively bad for us. But when you compare it to what the rest of the world went through, what the rest of the world is still going through, it's not that bad. And then you look at how the United States has rebounded. Most countries would love to be in the state. The United States is in Right now. So it's gonna be interesting to see how much inflation influences voters in November versus how much they'll think about everything else.

3 (24m 30s):
Because just like in Argentina, just like most anywhere in the world, there is a lot more on the line

0 (24m 46s):
Today. Explains Sean Rameswaram firm. Thank you,

3 (24m 49s):
Sean. Thank you. Noel.

0 (24m 51s):
Sean Rameswaram firm reported today's show. Miles Bryan produced Matthew Collette edited Rob Byers mixed with David Herman, who also remixed Laura Bullard and Jesse Alejandro, Rell FactCheck and Sean. You have some people to thank

3 (25m 5s):
Lanka, Amanda Arran, Lucia Rera and Fado Acia and Mariana. Lui's got a book called The Dollar, how the US Dollar became a Popular Currency in Argentina. There's also, of course, the original Spanish version Elara might be especially worth reading, considering another one of Malays plans to Dollarize Argentina's economy.

0 (25m 28s):
I'm Noel King. It's today. Explain.