1 (0s):
Before we begin the show if you're trying to keep up with everything that's going on in our economy right now. You probably feel like your heads about to explode but you can stay on top of financial news and learn how to manage your own money better with NerdWallet smart money podcast experts Liz Weston and Shawn piles will walk you through the IRS and the aarp's and all the other three letter acronyms. You need to know to get your money right to start listening head to Apple or Spotify or whoever you do this podcast thing with and search for NerdWallet smart money show. No.

4 (32s):
This episode is brought to you by Samsung. Hey, I'm bows. I'm a streamer gamer and all around internet person a little later in the show. I'm going to be taking a look at not the future of 5G, but the present how this technology affects us right now because when you upgrade to a 5 G phone, there's so much you can do you can be one of the first to Crystal Clear video or the first to stream with virtually no lag be one of the first to buy G today with Galaxy 5 G now. Now available on Galaxy S 25g and a 71 5G feels good to be first with Samsung.

1 (1m 23s):
Some are just started but the entire countries already talking about going back to

3 (1m 27s):
school. There has been a lot of

4 (1m 30s):
guidance written a lot of practical thought given to how this can happen

1 (1m 36s):
whether it's schedule class size. How you space seeding the you Barriers in the school to maintain social distancing

4 (1m 44s):
obviously close each year

1 (1m 45s):
and communal spaces.

4 (1m 47s):
Now. It's time to be open. It's time to stay open and we will put out the fires as they come up, but we have to open our schools. It's so important to open our schools there. When you said from a psychological standpoint with respect to staying home any longer you can do it. You can do it that has great dangers. Also,

1 (2m 5s):
even though we just hit 3 million cases in the United States today the Can't can't wait to get the kids back in the classrooms and in keeping with tradition, he's got no real plan on how to do it. But across the country. Everyone's trying to figure it out from daycares to universities parent-teacher associations to pediatricians Mayors Governors the CDC

3 (2m 27s):
and unsurprisingly, no one's really

1 (2m 30s):
cracked that nut yet. But today we're going to try and explain what it's going to take to do it safely and what teachers are going to need to do their jobs, and we're going to start with the Just School District in the country. Nyc's Dio e here's the deal for the vast majority of kids in the

4 (2m 46s):
vast majority of schools. You'll be

1 (2m 49s):
going to school to

4 (2m 50s):
the classroom either two days a week or three days a week depending on the week

1 (2m 55s):
today New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced the city's Public Schools will not fully reopen in September instead. They're going to try and do some kind of hybrid systems School a few days a week with fewer kids in the classroom at the same time. We got in touch with Lauren Gardener to ask her what she thinks about going back to school in New York. She's an eighth grade teacher in Brooklyn and we spoke with her back in March when schools were just shutting down. She was telling us how challenging that was.

3 (3m 23s):
Overall. I would say it was it was really difficult. I mean in some ways it felt like teaching remotely was suddenly like a 24-hour day job communicating and getting texts and emails it all the time. And in other ways there were times where it felt like you had completely Lost access to your kids and we're like working alone in a vacuum one day, you know, you're spending an hour on the phone trying to figure out like why a kid can't like edit a Google doc on his iPad that the deal we gave him and the next day you're spending hours making a digital Museum and learning trying to learn all these like new new tech skills.

3 (4m 4s):
I mean teaching has always been a lake about wearing a lot of different hats but so many Ee times during this experience. I was like, okay, this hat is not what I signed up for. I was like a film editor and like a solicitor cold calling people's houses like a graphic designer a YouTube actor. So many of these roles. I was totally not prepared for in just had to kind of Jump Right In and I mean I joke, but I'm let you know sometimes I stop and think I'm like if I had read a job description for like this job. What I've taken

1 (4m 41s):
it, what was the experience like for your students? How did they cope with this totally new and you know unforeseen unprecedented experience.

3 (4m 50s):
The true thing is that it was really really varied. There were kids who had really really really little access to technology. There were kids who moved from place to place during this time their work. Kids who were not supervised and we're sleeping until four o'clock in the afternoon as much as there were kids who thrived in this environment more. So even than when they were in the classroom who totally knew how to do everything technological that we were asking them to do who benefited from having the responsibility of managing their own schedule, but you know, it was just it really changed the way that I had access to.

3 (5m 38s):
Like my students as a whole and you know one thing that I think about is like I feel lucky to be at a school where we had invested in like prioritized building Community regardless of this, you know crisis having

1 (5m 52s):
happened. And now that the country's attention has turned to going back to school. What's on your mind. Do you feel safe going back into the physical building? Do you feel like it's safe for your students? Is there a way to social distance and a classroom with kids?

3 (6m 8s):
The video we went and audited school buildings and to to the kind of try and see why it like a thief ratio. I guess would be and our faith ratio in our building at least in my classroom is nine students and one teacher huh, but it kind of feels like they gave us that number and we're like, all right, 9 to 1 you guys can go ahead and figure that out by what do you mean figure it out? Like figure out which 9 yeah, which 9 who comes when I mean supposedly you could infer that this means some kind of staggered schedule but no no one's going to tell us how to do that at least as far as I can tell so there's at my school and I've heard it other schools like cohorts of Really Brave Valiant teachers forming committees to work over the summer with no pay to try and outline a plan for some of these Logistics, but we also know that there's supposedly a Guidance that still forthcoming so there's definitely a Vibe right now that feels like we're still kind of waiting maybe waiting for the other shoe to drop like what will happen to students who have legally mandated special education services what will happen to Transportation like food cleaning requirements.

3 (7m 28s):
None of those have been outlined that I know of and in the meantime, we have these like wonderful committees working over the summer trying to make sense of this 9 to 1 ratio and Trying to make sense of teachers who have pre-existing health conditions or teachers who have small children who I mean think of it, like it's if teachers have kids who have their own staggered schedule to work with, you know, what will that mean for the teachers availability right? It's the kind of problem that you just can't look at for that long because it starts to seem just so unwieldy. And so

1 (8m 4s):
insane, I guess it's summertime. So maybe you're not talking to your fellow. Teachers all the time. But when you check in with them, how's everyone feeling about all the

3 (8m 13s):
uncertainty? I think we have some comfort that we can take from being in a supportive specific School Community, but on the bigger picture, it's it's really concerning because I think there's also an assumption especially when I don't know watch the news or hear politicians talk. I think there's an assumption that kids can make this transition really seamlessly, right? Like if teachers can just show up and have your nine to one classroom or put some stuff online like kids can make this transition really seamlessly because what do kids do all day they're on technology, right?

3 (8m 55s):
But like in my experience there can be a really big like Equity Gap in technology. Also that gets totally overlooked and I think it's really ridiculous just to assume that like you Kid an iPad and you've done your duty, you know, they'll be fine.

1 (9m 13s):
I mean if there is some way that you guys pull this off and you figure out equitable. Logical way to bring in the nine students everyday whomever they may be what are your concerns about a system

3 (9m 29s):
like that? Oh boy, where do I start in terms of teacher safety like especially teaching in New York City. I don't see how there can be any kind of nine to one classroom where I would ever really feel like isolated. Like I don't you know, nobody just drops out of the sky into this room with nine to one people wanted all the nine children and say, okay. Well this is relatively safe. I mean a lot of my kids live with older people and small children. Are they taking the subway? I suppose they are right. Not to mention teachers who also live with older people and younger people just like everything about the job is so especially New York City feels so I don't know like interconnected it there's there's no safe isolation chamber of 9 to 1 ratio that feels realistic.

3 (10m 26s):
You know it is it is so important for kids to be together. I completely get that in every teacher that I know I think would be willing to do whatever they have to do to facilitate. That happening for kids in the safest way that we know how but with all this uncertainty. It's really it's really easy

4 (10m 48s):
to say can we please just forfeit all of this anxiety and this unknown Blended hybrid Mantra that we've been given and just be like, you know what let's just be remote until January. There's

3 (11m 1s):
I mean, I can't

4 (11m 2s):
say that that wouldn't bring a certain amount of comfort, you know.

3 (11m 13s):
Quick break and then we'll talk to a

1 (11m 14s):
pediatrician who has been trying to figure out how to get American kids and teachers back to school safely. What are you been doing during your you know extra time at home your quarantine time your shutdown time your lockdown time. Have you been you know making the sourdough bread. Have you been watching lots and Netflix? Did you check out that Ken Burns documentary Zoom yoga, maybe no judgments. All good. But how about doing something that will stick with you forever into post quarantine whenever that is or you know, maybe even something you can pass on to your kids.

1 (12m 2s):
How

3 (12m 2s):
about learning?

1 (12m 3s):
A language think about it. There's a service. It's called Babble Babble can get you speaking truly really speaking a new language in mere weeks their daily lessons are just 50 minutes long. And if you're thinking it's going to be like an endless stream of random vocab. Don't worry. This is Babble Babble teaches real life conversations and focuses on how people actually communicate they got the French Spanish Italian German. They've got over a hundred language experts working. On lessons that cover 14 different languages right now when you purchase a three-month subscription Babble will give you three additional months for free with the promo code explain that is three additional months for free.

1 (12m 47s):
If you go to babble.com and use the promo code explained be a BBE l.com promo code explained for your three-month subscription.

4 (13m 2s):
This is Advertiser content. Hey, this is Bo's. I'm a podcaster a streamer gamer and I'm basically all over the Internet. So one of the things that I'm super interested in is how new technology affects our lives today with the help of Samsung Galaxy 5G. I'm looking at how technology connects us. Let's get into it with dr. Jennifer gold back. She's a professor at the University of Maryland studying how our online interactions affect their daily lives doctor. What do you see as the biggest promise of 5G but I think it's going to really open a new way of thinking about how do we share these real-world offline experiences that were having

3 (13m 42s):
now is 5G. We're going to take this next Leap Forward. We're going to be able to do stuff that we couldn't think of with slower connections

4 (13m 49s):
psychologically. How do you think that this affects us? Yeah. It's such a good question if things kind of get in the way of us doing what we're trying to do, it can be so frustrating because it builds up over the course of the day. Day, and so if we have

3 (14m 2s):
seamless video If we don't have those little delays it's going to make us feel better. It's

4 (14m 8s):
going to reduce that

3 (14m 8s):
frustration that's going to make us nicer to everybody else. It's going to make us

4 (14m 13s):
happier. Wow, it's seriously been so interesting talking to you today, and I have a million questions, but that's all the time that we have for Samsung and my guest. Dr. Jennifer go back. Thank you so much for joining us be one of the first to start enhancing Your World online and off with Galaxy 5G now available on Galaxy S. 25g and a 71 5G feels good to be first with Samsung.

1 (14m 50s):
The CDC issued guidelines for reopening schools back in May the president doesn't like

4 (14m 56s):
them the president tweeted out this morning that he disagrees with CDC guidelines on reopening schools calling them tough and expensive and he says that the CDC is asking schools to do very impractical things

1 (15m 7s):
Pence says the CDC will be issuing new guidelines next week. The CDC will be issuing new guidance for next

4 (15m 13s):
week part of a five part series.

1 (15m 17s):
Recommendations

4 (15m 18s):
that will give all

1 (15m 19s):
new tools to our schools sounds dysfunctional but the cdc's not the only organization trying to figure this out. There's also the Council on school health at the American Academy of Pediatrics. Dr. Nathaniel beers serves on the small Council. I think that before we return to classrooms schools need to have the hard conversations about how they're going to make sure that students the family's staff teachers are all going to be safe. And so that means that while the American Academy of Pediatrics has put out guidance that we should be encouraging all kids to be in school to receive in school instruction as much as possible.

1 (16m 2s):
We also need to recognize that there are limitations relative to different school districts as well as the different issues around disease. And different areas that we need to take into account. So you helped develop the school reopening guidelines, right? Correct. Would you say that schools are ready to reopen many are not and so that is part of the reason that the American Academy of Pediatrics put that guidance out because the conversations need to start now if we have any meaningful chance of actually getting kids back into school safely and having the teachers.

1 (16m 46s):
Be safe as well. I guess I still wonder just as a pediatrician seeing what you're seeing across the country right now a lack of leadership a lack of clear guidelines a lack of responsible shutdowns. Are you afraid we'll get this wrong. I think we would be naive to be not be afraid that there will be places that get this wrong based on our current experience. I think that we as pediatric health professionals need to make sure that we were reminding this country that closing schools is more than just missed academic opportunities. There are large percentage of our children and used in this country who are dependent on schools for nutrition social emotional development Mental Health Services, all of those in addition to others are lost when we provide virtual education.

1 (17m 44s):
And so if we don't figure out a mechanism to first open schools, we are not going to be successful in addressing the other portions of our economy that need to be opened and so there are some hard conversations that we have to be willing to have As a country as leaders in this country that stem around. How are we going to step into the space and acknowledge the needs for facial coverings in order to keep other people safe from us. How are we going to make sure that people understand what the actual recommendations are around physical distancing and cleaning of surfaces to make sure that we can do this as safely.

1 (18m 31s):
As possible opening schools is not without risk and our job is to minimize that risk as much as possible and help families feel like their children can feel safe helps staff and teachers know that their school system is taking care of them and keeping them safe because the data shows that children are actually must much less likely to spread disease to adults if you look at family studies out of Iceland. You also have studies out of Australia that suggests that in fact in schools teachers are more likely to get covid from another teacher. Then they are actually from a student.

1 (19m 13s):
And so that what we know about the risk for kids has been growing and growing as we look at other countries and the way that they've been able to implement but it will require some hard decisions as local public health officials at state and federal level about Imitation of testing and masking and resources to schools and teachers to make sure that this can be effectively done because it doesn't just happen because we announced that we want it to happen. Right? I mean speaking to Lauren Gardner the teacher we had in the first half of the show she's talking about

3 (19m 53s):
A lack of clear

1 (19m 54s):
Direction and guidelines in the biggest school district in the country in New York City. I mean, do you see anyone who's communicating well to teachers about how to go about this right now, are there any positive examples for the country? I think that there is lots of growth opportunity in that space for school districts to effectively communicate with teachers as well as with students and families. I think that school districts have been flooded with information and recommendations and guidance and have been trying to do their best possible to develop a plan many parents and families are frustrated with the lack of plans in some school districts and yet there are parents and and families and students who are frustrated by the quick jump to

4 (20m 52s):
This

1 (20m 52s):
hybrid model of some kids in school some kids out of school without clarity about what that means without clarity about what that virtual education looks like. And so I think that it the school districts that are taking their time and being deliberate we need to give them that space to do it. Do you have faith will whole pull this off doc? I think that there are many jurisdictions around the country that are are stepping into this hard conversation and are really willing to make some of the hard decisions that need to be made to ensure that we can do this and there are those that are unwilling to have those conversations and they will suffer accordingly.

1 (21m 42s):
Dr. Beers is a pediatrician at Children's National Hospital in Washington DC. I'm Sean Rama's broom today explained is for the children and the teachers protect them, please.

3 (22m 26s):
No one would ever thought

4 (22m 27s):
an entrenched immunity like Hollywood could let someone come in and completely disrupt the content. I'm Ronnie Mo Le and I'm Peter Kafka and we are the host of a new season Land of the Giants the Netflix effect for exploring all things Netflix by talking to the people who started the

1 (22m 44s):
company will get into their bruising battle with Blockbuster. It was 20 times larger than us,

4 (22m 49s):
which is not a good place to be. Okay. So in many as

1 (22m 52s):
five, I feel like so randomly lucky

4 (22m 54s):
to have survived. Well look at mistake that could have ended the

1 (22m 57s):
company in hindsight. It was incredibly tone-deaf and it blew up in our faces as it should have and we'll talk about how Netflix took over our screens and how they plan to win the war for our attention

4 (23m 7s):
Land of the Giants the Netflix effect from recode and the Box media

1 (23m 11s):
podcast Network first episode drops, June 23rd. Listen And subscribe on Apple podcast Spotify or wherever you get your podcasts.