2 (7s):
I've been watching the academy awards for as long as I can remember. It was the thing we did as a family. When I was a kid

3 (15s):
And the Oscar goes

2 (16s):
To, then it was a thing I did with roommates in college. Then as an adult in my twenties, we'd throw us good parties. But over the years, the Oscars have begun to feel less and less relevant. There's a mistake. They get so much wrong.

5 (32s):
This is not a joke. I'm afraid they read the wrong thing.

2 (34s):
Not as funny as they used to be zero hosts, three hosts. And so as I made time to sit down for hours on Sunday, after my friends made fun of me for watching the Oscars, I asked myself, why am I still doing this? And then something happened

6 (48s):
Greatest night in the history of television.

2 (51s):
And I said to myself, this is why I watch the Oscars. I'm Sean Robins for him. That's today explained The Oscars opened with Beyonce. Last night, queen bee was performing her song, be alive from the movie king Richard. She performed with a full band and orchestra on a tennis court to honor the film subject matter. And it wasn't just any tennis court. It was the very court in Compton, California, where Venus and Serena Williams used to do tennis drills with their father.

2 (1m 34s):
Richard Williams, Beyonce was wearing tennis ball green. The entire orchestra and band was dressed to match. It was luscious. It was ornate and it was unlike any other opening to the Oscars in the history of the show.

7 (1m 48s):
<inaudible> huh.

2 (1m 54s):
And though king Richard was far from the most talked about movie of the year. Certainly not the most acclaimed beyoncé's opening performance set the stage for Hollywood's biggest night. It seemed to say, you will remember king Richard. And by the end of the night, everyone would, but maybe not for the right reasons.

6 (2m 12s):
Wow, dude, it was a GI Jane Jones,

2 (2m 17s):
As you may have heard extremely famous actor will Smith got up on stage and slapped extremely famous comedian. Chris rock across the face, making the 94th annual academy awards among the most memorable in nearly a century on the show today, we're going to try and understand what exactly happened and how it may have somehow been a good thing for everyone involved. I think to start, we have to go back to 2016

8 (2m 41s):
It's tonight, the new message to Hollywood spike Lee and Jada Pinkett Smith boycotting

2 (2m 45s):
Oscar. That was when there was a protest movement called Oscar. So white going around to boycott the show because of the lack of diversity in the nominations for

9 (2m 54s):
The second year in a row, only white actors have been considered for the most coveted award Hollywood snub for nominations. This year, Aegis Elba will Smith and Michael B. Jordan

2 (3m 5s):
Jada Pinkett was a big proponent of the protest. And Chris rock hosted the show that year,

6 (3m 11s):
Jane is going to boycott cotton. The Oscars is like me, boy, cotton Rhianna's panties. I wasn't invited

2 (3m 23s):
Fast forward six years. And the Oscars have become a more diverse award show. Will Smith is nominated for best actor for the third time in his career and is the favorite to win. He walks the red carpet with his wife, Jada. They both look incredible, but if you've been following their lives, you know, they've had some marital problems.

10 (3m 42s):
I mean, cause this is your red table and you like brought yourself to the red table. I think you need to say clearly what happened

2 (3m 49s):
That would of course seemed like a private concern, but the Smiths have made a public on a Facebook show. Jaeda hosts called red tabletop.

11 (3m 56s):
And then I got into an entanglement with August. That's what I said,

10 (4m 2s):
Then entanglement.

11 (4m 3s):
Yes.

10 (4m 5s):
Yes.

11 (4m 7s):
It wasn't a relationship. Absolutely.

2 (4m 9s):
Which probably makes it seem like fair game. If you're hosting the 94th academy awards.

12 (4m 15s):
So when I call your name, I'm just going to need you to come with me.

2 (4m 18s):
Fair game for the host to refer

12 (4m 23s):
You're married, but you know what? You're on the list and it looks like Jadah juice.

2 (4m 29s):
The Smith's seem to take that one in stride. Will's doing a lot of action with his arms being like, no, no, no, no, no. That's over what certainly seemed like a few hours later. Chris rock is on stage to present the Oscar for best documentary feature. But before he does that, he's got a rock, some jokes.

6 (4m 45s):
Wow. What a night, everybody just breathe. And raw Dawn connect.

2 (4m 55s):
He starts with coven. Danny starts talking about couples,

6 (4m 58s):
Javier Bardem and his wife are both nominated. Now, if she loses, he can't win.

2 (5m 8s):
Then he pivots to the Smiths and he zeroes in on Jayda and her bowl, dish head, which we should know. It looks pretty good on her

6 (5m 15s):
Jayda. I love you. GI Jane too. Can't wait to see it. All right.

2 (5m 22s):
Okay. I just want to pause here for a moment because we'll laughs at the joke comparing his wife's Baldus head to demean Moore's shaven head in the 1997 movie GI Jane and that's important Jayna, however does not. And that's maybe more important. Turns out she's got alopecia, her bald head. Wasn't a choice. And Chris rock should maybe know a thing or two about black women and their hair. Since he made a whole documentary about it in 2009, I digress. They cut back to Chris and maybe we'll never know what happens in the intervening seconds. Maybe we'll find out in the coming days, weeks or months. But what's clear is that will Smith goes from finding the joke. Funny to seeing his wife not find the joke, funny to finding the joke extremely unfunny.

6 (6m 5s):
Oh Wow.

2 (6m 12s):
Here's what happens next. If you're watching in the United States.

6 (6m 16s):
Well scripted

2 (6m 19s):
Now it was of course censored because there's a lot of salty language, which you're about to hear. Here's what you heard. If you were watching in Japan with translation,

6 (6m 28s):
Wow. Will Smith to smack the shit out of it. Wow dude. It was a GI Jane joke. I'm going to okay.

2 (6m 51s):
A lot of people watching last night had no idea of what they had just seen was a bit or a real reaction to a joke. I knew the second that Chris rock tried to get back on track that it was indeed the genuine article.

6 (7m 3s):
That was a greatest night in the history of television. Okay.

2 (7m 10s):
It takes a few seconds to compose himself and somehow pulls it back together on live TV, to hand out the trophy for best documentary.

6 (7m 19s):
Now the beauty of documentaries, because they make you, when you watch, when you feel smart, like your watch, the,

2 (7m 26s):
The show goes on after this explosive moment and hardly anyone even addresses it. Diddy comes out and says, he's going to mediate. Amy Schumer. One of the shows, three hosts comes out and ask if she'd missed anything. And then a few commercial breaks later

13 (7m 40s):
And the Oscar goes to

2 (7m 42s):
Will Smith himself wins the Oscar for best actor. A moment he's been chasing for roughly 30 years.

10 (7m 54s):
Oh man.

2 (7m 56s):
And it's awkward as all hell

10 (8m 1s):
Richard Williams was a fierce defender of his family.

2 (8m 11s):
At times he tries to excuse his behavior. He says something like he wants to be a vessel for love.

10 (8m 16s):
I want to be a vessel for love

2 (8m 20s):
With tears in his eyes. He apologizes to the academy. He apologizes to his fellow nominees, but he does not apologize to Chris rock. Instead he imparts some good advice. He got from a friend,

10 (8m 32s):
As L said to me a few minutes ago, he said at your highest moment, be careful. That's when the devil comes for you.

2 (8m 51s):
Y one of the biggest movie stars in the world felt compelled to get up on live TV. And one of the biggest comedians in the world, or at least a theory, why in a minute on today explained,

16 (9m 21s):
Wow, dude,

6 (9m 23s):
It was a GI ganja.

2 (9m 25s):
Then I explained Sean Rama's room. The second people realized will Smith really did slap Chris rock. Everyone had an opinion, including our guests.

17 (9m 34s):
My name is Shamira Ibrahim. I am a culture writer and reporter from Brooklyn, New York.

2 (9m 39s):
And Shamira do you always watch the Oscars? How long have you been watching the Oscars?

17 (9m 44s):
I actually regularly watched the Oscars. The funny thing is I actually slept through last light's Oscars. I woke up in the middle of the night,

2 (9m 53s):
Like you bet to go to sleep or you accidentally fell asleep.

17 (9m 55s):
I accidentally fell asleep because I had a long weekend. I woke up in the middle of the night to a bevy of text messages from friends and colleagues.

2 (10m 4s):
What were they saying?

17 (10m 6s):
Some version of you saw that, right?

2 (10m 8s):
Why do you think so many of your friends are reaching out to you specifically to ask you if you saw what just happened?

17 (10m 13s):
Oh, one, because I texted entirely too much, but I think the second reason is it was just a time for everyone to just get a collective kind of watering hole reaction. Right. You know, we're all remote, right? So there's no equivalent really still of like coming to the workplace, you know, coming to the water cooler of like, yo, what the hell is that? Right. How do you feel about that?

2 (10m 36s):
I can hardly count how many takes I saw last night from like, this is a huge moment for free speech. This is about cancel culture. I think I saw Judd Apatow saying that will Smith could have killed Chris rock with that slap. There was like, you know, defend black women. There was every version of, of take you want it. You could have probably found on Twitter. And yet this morning a friend sent me one of yours and you had something to say that I didn't see on Twitter last night or anywhere else this morning. What was your take?

17 (11m 5s):
Well, first of all, I do need to say that if that's lap is the most violent thing that you've ever seen in your life, you are living a very charmed life. And I would love to live your life indeed, but in general. But my take was really that I think the last couple of years of comedy right there, of course been an escalating conversation of how a lot of marginalized communities have been feeling about how comedians have been engaging their sets. Right? The Oscars is a little bit different. Yes. We've had comedians and these like really, really trite comedy bits that are been ongoing from show men of different sorts, but it's still supposed to be a relative equal brown. Right. Everyone's rich, everyone's successful.

17 (11m 45s):
We're all kind of at a version of prom, right? It's like a homecoming party, you know, look at us, look at how we're celebrating. Some of us will get awards. Some of us would get some purlative some of us won't, but we'll all get drunk and go home at the end of the day. Right. And we can do a little bit of rebate.

2 (12m 1s):
Yeah. We're all beautiful. We're all wearing custom deal or custom Gucci, custom, Tom Ford, whatever it is.

17 (12m 9s):
Right. How visible can you be with a swag bag that's worth more than my annual salary. Right. You know, so it kinda is supposed to be this level of playing field. Right. But the Smiths are a little bit of a different case. You know, you have will and Jada Pinkett or, and Smith rather, who are the closest thing that I think black America has to legitimate black royalty, you know, outside of maybe like Jay and Beyonce, right. Where you have like a couple who can pretty much do whatever they want on the level of, you know, white celebrity. Like if will, and Jada had a kid tomorrow and named them, I don't know, like equals MC squared.

17 (12m 53s):
Like you might let them get away with that

2 (12m 57s):
Rhymes and Ilan stuff. Exactly.

17 (12m 58s):
You know, you know, they are fully leaned into autonomy of self with their children. You know, they let them homeschool their children. They lean into, you know, sometimes very erratic conversations about self-actualization and mathematical education to interviews. And we just kind of let it rock

10 (13m 16s):
Failure is a massive part of being able to be successful. You have to get comfortable with failure. You have to actually seek failure. Failure is where all of the lessons are,

17 (13m 29s):
Whatever, you know, and, and that's fine. Well, as a bonafide movie star, right. And I think that's like irrefutable at this

2 (13m 36s):
Point, he has his own weekend. Yes

17 (13m 39s):
He does. He has literally crossed over for being a bonafide music star to TV, start to move you start. But that thresholds has been really that prestige actor status. He's tried it since Ali. Right.

2 (13m 53s):
I could argue that he's been trying it since six degrees of separation.

18 (13m 57s):
I'm so sorry to bother you, but I've been hurt and I've lost everything. I didn't know where to go. We, the children, I'm a friend of your children. He

4 (14m 7s):
Mentioned our kids' names,

17 (14m 9s):
Which I actually think is one of his best performances.

2 (14m 11s):
1993.

17 (14m 12s):
Exactly. Exactly. Right. Then we continued and persisted. Right. We had a concussion, which didn't really get him what he wanted. So he's constantly kinda been looking for his white whale. Right. Which is that Oscar award,

10 (14m 24s):
You know, it's, it's so amazing to all of a sudden start hearing Oscar nominee before your name. You know, it's just, it's really, this period is the best period. Even I'm sure more than winning or losing the fact, the Oscar nominee. Is there the anticipation, how people look at you. I mean, that's great.

2 (14m 47s):
Th this is a part of what you tweeted about, and this might be hard for people to wrap their heads around, even though will, and Jada are black royalty, they still felt like they needed this validation.

17 (15m 0s):
Exactly. And it's been a consistent, I think, point of contention that they've tried to express and will himself has also expressed that he is someone who seeks acceptance and seeks validation. And it's why he constantly kind of pushed himself as hard as possible. Right. It's part of his own mentality, his own drive. He's spoken about it. And the barriers red table talk she's appeared in. He's spoken about it. And the various times he's talking about his books and his memoirs.

10 (15m 27s):
I think that diversity is the American superpower. That's why we are great. And for me at its best Hollywood creates the imagery for that beauty. But for my part, I think that I have to fight for the ideals that make our country and make our Hollywood community great.

17 (15m 53s):
So there's a level of pattern to his approach to actually seeking approval, seeking acceptance, and showing that he can perform at the top tier of whatever he wants to do.

2 (16m 3s):
Okay. So you have these two competing phenomena here. You've got comedians have been punching down though at the Oscars, it's kind of more level playing field. You've got one of the most famous comedians in the world up there on stage. He's making jokes, people are laughing, then you've got the Smiths and they're really looking for validation this night. And how do these two forces clap?

16 (16m 27s):
Wow.

6 (16m 30s):
Well, script is smack the shit out of me.

17 (16m 34s):
And I think that's a combination of will having a confluence of emotions right. Of, oh, my status is being put in place here. I feel like I'm being affirmed as someone who can be spoken to in this way. And my family can be spoken about in this way and still homies to kind of have these things poked at. I'm sure it's just in some ways, infuriating for him and his ego. Right. In addition to infuriating that he has to kind of speak in defendant's wife. And I think there's a lot of confluence of, even from my class status, I am still having to have this insurer class conversation. What I think I should be above this. And I should be able to kind of go off into the night and like ride into the sunset with my triumphant moment with my family,

2 (17m 20s):
Which he ultimately sort of still gets on some level. There's some videos circulating, dancing after parties. It seems like he still had his night.

17 (17m 28s):
I think he, in some ways I think he felt a little bit more bad-ass for it. Right. And I won't want to speak for him, but like, it kind of felt like his family was kind of doing like an even more triumphant stance. Right.

2 (17m 38s):
Is it that same Hollywood, a list superstar status though that allows will Smith to get up in the middle of, you know, the biggest night in his industry and slap the person onstage and then just go sit back down. Like nothing happened.

17 (17m 52s):
No, cause I don't think he does that. Let's say if it's Neil, Patrick Harris making that comment. Right. I really don't think that happens. Right. I think that becomes an even more dramatic circumstance. You can

10 (18m 3s):
Find them,

2 (18m 7s):
You think the world's way and in so heavily, because after two years of, you know, war, pandemic, crumbling, democracy, insurrection, people just needed some silly celebrity nonsense to happen to just give them that water cooler moment. They'd been pining for for years.

17 (18m 27s):
I think people are waiting in for different reasons. People love mess. Absolutely. Right. And so it's great. I don't know if great should be the right word I use there, but it's definitely stimulating for people to have an event to just gossip about right. To be like, oh, a celebrity is doing something unexpected in a time when celebrity image is so carefully constructed. Right. You know, everyone has such control over how they're perceived to the public and because they want to be so carefully curated, you know, there's no level of insight or no level of just examination. Short of being one of those people who sits and Combs through people's likes all day. Right. And I'm, I'm not going to be one of those people.

17 (19m 9s):
I have a job.

2 (19m 10s):
Ultimately the big winner here is the Oscars.

17 (19m 14s):
Oh

2 (19m 14s):
Yeah. They were, they were suffering from a huge ratings dip last year. But I, I feel like I'm willing to bet that next year more people are going to be watching,

17 (19m 24s):
Oh wait, is the Oscars, the big winner, Chris rock is the big winner. Right. If you don't think he's making two years worth of specials around this incident, right? Like the amount of separate content that will be developed by the individuals participating in the event is infinite. Right? Yeah. Well, and data have massive, the ability of creating content about moving through scandal and complex. That is something that they have been able to generate as they've had to ride through the last couple of years. I definitely think that is something that's going to happen out of this.

2 (19m 59s):
So maybe the three of them at least come out on top.

17 (20m 2s):
Yes that's for sure.

10 (20m 7s):
Thank you, Bob. Bob, Bob, Bob, it

2 (20m 10s):
Sounds like Chris rock isn't pressing charges.

17 (20m 12s):
No, I don't think, I think he'll be fine. And for the record, eat the hell out of that flap. I'm just saying,

10 (20m 18s):
Like I told you any damsel in distress, <inaudible> meet Jim west rough. Next to go check them on a buy watches that will flex and get a hold of your sides while you're abroad. Don't let you let reaction. You don't want to see my hand where my head be with autonomous farm started running again, James West, same in the west. So remember the name

2 (20m 36s):
You can find more of Shamira Abraham's work@shamirathefirst.com. That's S H a M I R a. The first.com. Our show today was edited by Matthew collect fact, checked by Laura Bullard with help from Victoria Chamberlain engineered by a theme Shapiro and produced by we'll read and Hottie. Milwaukee who thinks all this drama was bad for the Oscars, but more importantly, bad for the movies. Coda winning best picture was a big deal. And Hottie would rather that be the thing we're talking about in a week or two with any luck, it will be it's today. Explain

10 (21m 12s):
Julie shadows in the saddle. Ready for battle. Bring all your poison, poison my back on everything you did front and center. Now, when you look back and your health looking damn good, though, if I can say it myself told me level, this is a man, man. He got mad weapons too. Ain't trying to hear that. Trying to bring down me to champion when y'all class foresee that it can't be done. Understand me, son. I'm the slicker Sanders. I'm the quickest that he is. So if you block it up the wrong tree, we come in, you don't be starting to test your chest. Loveless. Can't stand the heat to get out the bottom.

6 (21m 48s):
I don't understand. You're mad is mad. Her man will was not nominated for concussion. I get it. I get it. Tell you tooth. I get it. I get it. You get mad. She said, it's not fair. That will was this good. And didn't get nominated. Yeah, you're right. It's also not fair. That will was paying 20 million for a wild wild west.