0 (0s):
If you're a regular today explained listener, you already know that 2024 is a historic year for elections around The world. Over half of humanity lives in a country where there'll be an election this year, but that doesn't guarantee all those elected leaders will be super democratic. In El Salvador's big election this past weekend, sitting President Na Bukele showed up to vote blasting. It's the end of The world as we know it. It was a bit of a troll for all the critics of as many anti-democratic reforms as president, including changing the Constitution to allow himself a second consecutive run at the top job. And of course, he's claiming a landslide victory.

5 (44s):
This will be the first time where one sole party rules a country in a completely democratic system. We pulverized all of the opposition

0 (53s):
Why the whole wide world would be wise to pay attention to what Bukele is up to. An El Salvador coming up on the show

BetterHelp (58s):
today, support for today explain comes from better help online therapy. They say humans are social animals, but if that's the case, why are relationships so hard? The best relationships with friends, family, or partners happen when both people put in the time and commitment to make them great. Therapy can help. Better Help provides easy and affordable online therapy. You can start the process in minutes and switch therapists anytime. Give your relationship some love with Better Help. You can visit Better help.com/explain today to get 10% off your first month. That's better. hlp.com/explained.

The Weeds (1m 34s):
Getting evicted can often be a life changing event, and some of us are more vulnerable than others. Black women just typically have less money available to pay their rent, less money to go around period. Really affects the chances of building longer term financial safety nets like an emergency fund for job losses. What do the disproportionately high eviction rates for black women tell us about housing stability and how we can make it better. That's this week on the Weeds. New episodes every Wednesday.

5 (2m 9s):
That's

0 (2m 9s):
Great. Today. Explained Sean Rameswaram for, but Bukele is the star of the show today. He's from a ritzy neighborhood called Los Enos, which if you didn't take Spanish in high school means the dreams. The dude is literally dreamy. Sylvia Benjas is the co-host of the podcast, Bukele El Senor de Los Enos. We asked her to tell his story.

3 (2m 30s):
He comes from a family of Palestinian immigrants. So after he finishes school, Bukele went to a small bilingual private school. That's why his English is, is so good. He started working for the family's advertising agency. He actually became the president of the company when he was 18 years old. Wow.

0 (2m 48s):
So he's a nepo baby.

3 (2m 50s):
Yes, he, he definitely is. The agency actually began to manage clients for the fm, the traditional left wing party. So thanks to these ties with the fm, he finds a way to enter politics. So at this point, he's in his early thirties, so he's very young. He wins the mayoral election for San Salor, which is the most important mayorship. It's the one that has the biggest budget and that gets the most media coverage. As mayor of El of San Salvador, very quickly and very visibly, one of the main things he does is that he recovers a small part of the historic downtown in El.

3 (3m 34s):
Salvador and I, I went there with our colleague, Gabriel Rador, from the digital newspaper, El Farro, and he showed me how Bukele had modernized a very small area that used to be controlled by gangs and informal commerce. But we later found out the press revealed that in order to get street vendors off the streets, he had to negotiate with gangs. So of course, this is something that he has denied, but it shows how he was willing pretty much to do anything to get things done. And that kind of started when he was already mayor. And this is what catapults him to the presidency being known for being this young hip politician who gets things done When he announces he's running for president.

3 (4m 29s):
It's not clear what his ideology is or what the ideology is behind this new political movement that he says he's creating. His message is mostly against the two traditional parties that have governed the country for decades and had not been able to solve basic problems. And the major issue of El Salvador, which is security,

0 (4m 51s):
He's the youngest president in the history of El Salvador when he's elected in 2019, a millennial president. What's he like when he gets into office? Is it all avocado toast and Instagram or what?

3 (5m 4s):
Well, he continues to sell this image of the young hip millennial president who is different from the other presidents in Latin America. He was 37, as you say, he looked very different from other presidents. He didn't wear suits, he wore leather jackets. You know, he used social media to even conduct state business, you know, like to fire government employees or to ask them to take care of an issue. He goes to the un, he takes a selfie.

8 (5m 33s):
Believe me, many more people will see that selfie once I share it, then will listen to this speech. And I hope that I took a good one. The,

3 (5m 41s):
When he takes office, the Congress is doing their job of being a counterweight and checks and balances as, as they should in a democracy because he doesn't have a majority there. So during the campaign, his first campaign, his narrative was against the traditional parties. Now he starts a new fight, and that fight is with lawmakers because he wants them to approve a loan to finance his plan to reduce violent killings and to fight the gangs. So the Congress asks for more details about how he's going to spend this money. And Bukele gets tired of this back and forth of legislators delaying everything.

3 (6m 26s):
And he dials up the pressure a lot. He calls for an extraordinary session for Sunday, February 9th, 2020. He

0 (6m 37s):
Calls everyone to work on a Sunday. Yeah, that sounds tyrannical.

3 (6m 40s):
Yes, yes. Beginning there, right. So we spoke to a legislator from that Congress. His name is Leonardo Bon, and he's the only independent legislator the country has ever had.

9 (6m 52s):
El Republic.

10 (6m 54s):
The President had called his supporters to descend upon the national legislature to pressure

9 (6m 58s):
Us

3 (7m 0s):
That February 9th, some legislators go, but they don't have enough people to actually carry out a session to vote on the loan. And Bon says that it was very clear that that's not really why Bukele wanted them there. So Bukele advertised on social media that he was calling on this extraordinary session and he told people to go with him. He told people to go march to the Congress. So people gather outside the building and it's not like a spontaneous gathering. The government sets up a stage with a sound system. You know everything for Bukele to give a speech outside the building. They use government buses driven by military personnel to bring people to this gathering.

3 (7m 44s):
And inside the legislators are just waiting for the sessions to start. And while they're waiting, armed military personnel start marching inside the building.

10 (7m 55s):
The military surrounded the legislators in the legislative hall. We didn't do anything. We couldn't do anything because we didn't have quorum.

3 (8m 2s):
And they stand around the room, were where they vote. Bon this legislator tells us that they feared that this was a coup military entering the Congress.

0 (8m 14s):
It sounds like it's got like January 6th vibes if it worked.

3 (8m 17s):
Yes. Meanwhile, outside Bukele speaks to the people

10 (8m 24s):
We are making history. Those who say we aren't. Look at these people in front of the legislature with their president, speaking to them with the support of the armed forces, the national police, not to punish the people, but rather to support the people.

3 (8m 38s):
You know, he says, will you let me enter Congress? And people are like, yes. So he enters the room where the legislators are waiting with the military already inside. He sits in the chair where the president of the Congress would sit during a session and he says, let's say a prayer. He puts his hands on his head and he prays in silence. You can't hear it. And then he just gets up and he leaves. It's like a show of force, kind of like, this is what I'm capable of doing. I didn't go all the way. I didn't, you know, instigate a coop. But it was a fear tactic.

0 (9m 17s):
Does he find a way to consolidate power after that?

3 (9m 20s):
Yeah, he does. And he does that the following year when his party and the allied parties win a majority in Congress,

0 (9m 31s):
El parties, B'S party premiered its parliamentary majority by getting rid of two of B's biggest obstacles, the attorney general and the judges on the constitutional court.

3 (9m 43s):
So in, in just a few months after winning that election, after his party won majority, he was able to get ahold of legislative power and then the judicial power. And so after that it's like, okay, he can do anything he wants. He controls everything.

0 (10m 3s):
It's my understanding that one of the reasons people back Bukele, it's because he's taking a stand against the gangs and the gang violence in El Salvador. How does he as president oppose the gangs?

3 (10m 19s):
So you might remember these images of prisoners in Salvador, in jails with, you know, their shaved heads without a shirt, with their hands behind their back, like sitting very close to one another in lines.

13 (10m 36s):
Hundreds of inmates barefoot and stripped down to white shorts, scurry into El. Salvador's new mega prison ordered a crouch down on the ground, one after another.

3 (10m 46s):
Those images kind of went around The world. But that was a reaction from President Bukele his government, because in April, 2020 there was a surge in violence. There were 76 homicides in four days. So his response was to crack down on gang members in jails. So he authorized the use of lethal force, meaning that, you know, he gave security officers permission to shoot inmates or suspects in self-defense or to protect citizens. He mixed members of rival gangs in the same cells. He installed metal sheets to seal off cells. So he was showing, I am treating these guys terribly because they've done so much damage to our society.

3 (11m 29s):
But the, the trigger is that just months after he does this, the digital newspaper, El Fado revealed that Bukele had been negotiating with gang members since June, 2019, since the beginning of his presidency. And how these negotiations would work is that he would give them privileges in prison. In exchange they would reduce murders and tell people in their territories to vote for Bukele party in the legislative election. Of course, Bukele denies it, but then there's another big wave, and this is even bigger during a weekend, 87 murders in three days.

3 (12m 11s):
Wow. And that, that weekend, Bukele requests Congress to declare a state of emergency. And that's kind of the beginning of this state of emergency that has been renewed every 30 days, 22 times. We're almost at a two year mark. El Salvador has almost been two years under a state of emergency in the name of fighting the gangs.

0 (12m 39s):
And what does the state of emergency get him in terms of power?

3 (12m 44s):
This one suspense basic rights like right to defense or the presumption of innocence. So during this time, there are more military on the streets. He has increased the military, he has given them more resources, and the government so far has imprisoned over 75,000 people. That's more than 1% of the population. Wow. El Salvador is the country with the highest incarceration rate in The world. The issue with this is that there are thousands of reports of arbitrary arrests of abuse, of torture. But again, this is possibly his most celebrated measure and the one that has ultimately made him one of the most popular politicians in, in the Americans.

3 (13m 30s):
And so after that, it's like, okay, he can do anything he wants. He controls everything

0 (13m 37s):
Except for the constitutional term limit on his presidency,

3 (13m 41s):
Yes, but remember that now. He also has control of the people who make decisions about the Constitution and who interpret the constitution.

0 (14m 0s):
Bukele uses democracy to make El Salvador less democratic. When we're back on today.

Shopify (14m 6s):
Explained Support for today explained comes from Shopify. Being an entrepreneur in 2024 looks a lot different than it used to these days. All those business tricks of the trade and insider know-how are a lot more accessible. That's thanks in part to platforms like Shopify. You're welcome. Shopify is the global commerce platform that wants to help you sell at every stage of your business. Whether you're just starting out or are years down the line. They support online as well as in person with their point of sale system. And according to Shopify, they have an AI tool called Shopify Magic that can help make things even easier. You wanna find out what Shopify Magic is? You can sign up for $1 per month. It's a trial period at shopify.com/explained. All lowercase, go to shopify.com/explained all lowercase now, to grow your business, no matter what stage you're in shopify.com/explained, all lowercase

Quince (15m 27s):
support for today explained comes from quince. It rhymes with, since have you ever cleaned out your closet and realized you still have those V-necks and skinny jeans you haven't worn since 2009? They say trends come and go, but sometimes they go and they stay gone. Quince creates timeless essentials that you can have in your closet forever and still wanna wear 'em. You know, costing 50 to 80% less than similar brands. Plus Quince says they only work with factories that use safe, ethical, and responsible manufacturing practices. I've never had a timeless essential, but Sarah Frank has. A few weeks ago I got the Mongolian Cashmere fisherman Crewneck sweater from Quince. And it's really become a regular staple in my wardrobe ever since it's super soft and versatile. Whether I'm lounging at home or going out, You can upgrade your closet with Quince by going to quince.com/explain for free shipping and 365 day returns on your order. That's QUIN c.com/explained to get free shipping and 365 day returns. quince.com/explained

NetSuite (16m 41s):
Fox Creative. This is advertiser content from NetSuite. I've never worked in media before and it's really fun to see deals come through, especially when we signed with M-K-B-H-D and the Waveform podcast. That was one of my favorite shows on YouTube and I've loved that we've partnered with him. I'm Christina Ho Rodriguez, and I am a senior manager of revenue accounting at Vox Media. At Vox, I'm not so siloed in my own revenue accounting department. I'm getting to see the big picture of of what the company is working on. In my first year, the company went through a really big merger with another media company, And. we switched from our old ERP system to NetSuite. We had to integrate NetSuite really fast. It was very user-friendly right out of the box. Over the last couple months, our team developed a new revenue reporting module that makes our reporting much faster, much more automated. I have a lot of hope with what we can do in the future with NetSuite so that we're able to optimize, make our team a lot more successful and improve our processes. We're only as good as our best data and NetSuite allows us to see it all. Discover the power of NetSuite, a leading cloud financial system serving more than 37,000 businesses. Download NetSuite's popular KPI checklist designed to give you consistently excellent performance, absolutely free at netsuite.com/explained. That's netsuite.com/explain to get your own KPI checklist Today explained.

0 (18m 21s):
So Sylvia Bukele seems to have consolidated so much power while in office, but he is still restricted by a constitutional term limit. How does he get past that? Yeah,

3 (18m 35s):
So the Salvadorian constitution is very clear. Reelection is prohibited. So basically you can be president as many times as you win in El Salvador, but just not consecutively. So in September, 2021, the constitutional chamber, you know, is already controlled by pro magistrates. They issue a resolution that says that it's only up to the people to decide whether the president should continue. And they basically ignore the articles of the Constitution that say very clearly that reelection is not allowed. And they focus on a specific article that refers to requirements to be a presidential candidate.

3 (19m 19s):
And so the Chamber basically interprets this article to say, you know, the requirements for Bukele to run for reelection. The only requirement is that he stepped down from his position as president six months before the beginning of the new presidential term. So the new period, which he will begin now, is June of this year, 2024. So he had to step down from office before December 1st, 2023. And that's what he did.

0 (19m 51s):
As you know, in three days, I'll be asking for a license from the legislature to dedicate myself to the campaign and I won't be functioning as president.

21 (19m 59s):
No way of starting.

0 (20m 2s):
Was it controversial as he went through this process of getting rid of the constitutional term limit?

3 (20m 7s):
So political parties and lawyers, they tried to challenge with the electoral tribunal because even though the the constitutional chamber did this resolution, the institution that had the final say, let's say is the electoral tribunal. The electoral tribunal is not under complete control of Bukele, but they're under immense amounts of pressure. Bukele Congress passed a law that said that if you interfered with a candidate wanting to run for office, you can go to jail. So if you are an official who works for the electoral tribunal and you go against Bukele, the most popular, you know, politician wanting to run this law could be applied to you.

3 (20m 60s):
So their hands are tied. He

22 (21m 1s):
Styles himself as the most popular dictator in The world. And El Salvador's general election may have proven it.

0 (21m 10s):
So he changes the rules democratically to get a second term consecutively, which is inherently undemocratic. Is El Salvador still a democracy?

3 (21m 20s):
That's a big question. I guess it depends on how you define a democracy. If you see a democracy as being able to go to vote and make a choice, then maybe you can say, yeah, Elva is a democracy on the surface, the problem is that democracy is a lot more than that. And when one person and his government has made all these changes to debilitate other political parties, then it's not a fair fight. Is it a democracy? If he still controls everything, you know, if there are no checks and balances, is it a democracy?

3 (22m 2s):
And I think the concern is, okay, this election confirms that this is the path that he's taking and what comes next? That's, that's the big question and the big concern. What, what is he gonna do now?

0 (22m 18s):
What does he say he's gonna do? What do people think he's gonna do now that he has this? Yeah, historic second term.

3 (22m 24s):
When he announced that he was running, he said, you know, we have shown that this is the only correct path for El Salvador. So his excuse kind of to say, I need to be reelected is that we need to continue this path. We can expect the state of emergency to continue. There's no indication that Bukele plans to dial back his policies. There's a concern that several experts mentioned while we were reporting that if les's popularity decreases, because the question is really how sustainable is this popularity when there are so many people being arrested?

3 (23m 6s):
The concern is that as his popularity decreases, he will use the military even more. He will become more iron fisted and he will implement more of these policies to maintain his power.

0 (23m 23s):
You know, I saw an article in the Economist from a few years ago that said, ye Bukele may want to become Latin America's first millennial dictator. Do you think he's done that now four years later?

3 (23m 38s):
Well, he is, he's self-proclaimed the coolest dictator, and he likes to play with that. So that's

0 (23m 44s):
A yes

3 (23m 44s):
No, he likes to play with that. I think, again, this goes back to your question of what is a democracy? So in Latin America when you say dictatorship, it kind of evokes the military dictatorships of the eighties. You know, you think of like military overthrowing a democratic government and not supporting a very popular president like, like they do now. So this historian Lindo told us that popularity doesn't define whether it's a dictatorship or not, so you can have a popular dictator, basically. Dictatorship also refers to governments that function without the limits that come with this system of checks and balances by three independent powers of the state.

3 (24m 28s):
So if you look at it that way, then yes,

0 (24m 31s):
You think other leaders in the region and even the hemisphere, and maybe even around The world on this historic election year globally, are paying attention to what Bukele just did in El. Salvador.

3 (24m 46s):
I'm not sure about the rest of The world, but in Latin America, yes, because even before this election, Bukele has become a model you hear in, in several countries, even in con, I mean, in countries with very important and challenging problems with security, they say we need someone like Bukele. So it's either candidates or the opposition. When there's a president who is not using these man Luda tactics, they say, oh, the the opposition will say, we need someone like Bukele because this guy is not getting anything done. And so he has already become kind of a model. And not just politicians, but people, you know, citizens.

3 (25m 28s):
If you see on social media, you know, you have Mexicans, you have Chileans, you have Peruvians saying, we need a Bukele. So the concern is that other Latin American countries will interpret his victory in this reelection as a sign that anti-democratic narrative and anti-democratic policies work that you can give up on democratic and human rights and people will support you as long as you are bringing them security.

0 (26m 2s):
I just wanna take it back to this unknown nepo baby rich kid. Do you think he sees the path to the presidency to maybe the dictatorship in El Salvador? Or do you think he's just making it up as he goes along?

3 (26m 22s):
So there's a very interesting moment back in 2013, and he goes and he speaks to a group of university students, kind of like in a TED Talk situation. And during this, you know, sort of Ted Talk event, he says that the country needs a paradigm shift. And one of those things has to do with populism, with the idea that populism is bad. So he asks the students, does anyone want a populist president? The students don't say anything, but B raises his hand and he smiles and he asks nobody, well, I do.

3 (27m 7s):
And then he reads out a definition of populism and the definition that he gives is something like a political doctrine that seeks to defend the interest and aspirations of the people. And he uses that to question why we would think that that's bad. So he's right there in 2013, more than 10 years ago, telling these students what he aspires to. And I think that that's what he has shown, that he believed in this sort of populism, that this was the way for El Salvador in order to change things for everyone, as he says.

3 (27m 52s):
But I think the concern for everyone, you know, whether in the US or in other countries, is seeing a politician use authoritarian tactics with the support of the people. I think that's the most concerning thing. Whether the those authoritarian practices are to crack down on immigration or to, you know, end gangs, whatever, whatever that might be. The holding onto power no matter what and doing everything you can to hold onto power is the scary part. I think

0 (28m 37s):
Sylvia Ez, she co-hosted a series called Bukele El de los Enos. If your Spanish is up to it, you can find it by searching Al wherever you listen. Cental comes from Radio Ante studios, thanks to Daniel Alcon from Radio Ante for his help with today's show and FYI El Salvador's highest electoral court says the votes from Sunday's election need to be recounted due to some irregularities, but at this time it doesn't look like anyone's holding their breath for a different result. Jesse Alejandro Trell produced our program today, Amina Aldi edited Laura Bullard FactCheck and Patrick Boyd. Engineered asta manana on today explained.