Northern Trust (0s):
Support for this American life comes from the Northern trust. Financial planning is especially complex when your business is the primary source of your wealth gain a competitive edge with advice that recognizes the unique challenges you face, whether you are growing your business or getting ready to sell Northern trust can help your business and family flourish for generations to come speak with an advisor, to explore strategies that have proven most effective for generations of business owners.

1 (28s):
It's hard after on the road, again in six days on the road and hit the road, Jack and road runner and born to run and running on empty and life in the fast lane and lost highway and highway one revisited after let's get away from it all after easy writer and Thema and Louise, and was America and too many road movies to name, or even remember after Jack Carac and route 66. And as long as we're at this after Huck, Finn, and the journals of Lewis and Clark after all that, it is hard for an American to just hit the road without some expectations take Jamie. After his mother died, after three months of visiting her in the hospital and three years in which she'd been sick, he hit the road and the car that used to be hers.

3 (1m 10s):
I kept trying to be like, you know, what is, what is the realization I'm gonna come to? Or what is the feeling that I'm gonna settle on? And that was what I kept feeling was like, am I feeling something? Am I experiencing something?

1 (1m 25s):
Oh, really? Like you feel like, okay, I'm on this big road trip. I'm supposed to have a revelation.

3 (1m 30s):
Yeah. That's what I, I thought, you know, I, I, you know, I was hoping that I would, yeah. Be somewhere I'd step out of the car and experience the grandeur of the place and just be like, yeah, this is what life is. And like, this is like my mom dying. And this is like where I am in my life. And like, you know, but it didn't happen like that.

1 (1m 54s):
Any road trip is gonna feel longer than you think it will. And you'll be tired and you won't get a meal. Exactly. When you're hungry, you never find a bed exactly. When you wanna go to sleep. And you're probably not gonna find out what it is that you got on the road to find out in the first place. And you know, all that, you know, all that going into it. And you still, we all still buy into the cliche about road trips. That what a road trip stands for is hope. Hope that somewhere anywhere is better than here. That somewhere on the road, I will turn into the person that I want to be. I'll turn into the person that I believe I could be, that I am and come Memorial day, we hit the road, you and me and our whole great nation with high hopes and no expectations for the future.

1 (2m 41s):
And to hasten the journey. We bring you now this hour of radio today from WB easy Chicago, it's this American life am I glass today's program road trip F one on the road in tuxedo at the age of 92 comedian George Burns was still traveling all the time. Margie rock on briefly traveled with him. What's it like when being on the road has been your job for decades? Act two, male, C am I saying that right? Mercy, male, C can a road trip in Europe, save a marriage answers with one case study at three busman's holiday dishwasher.

1 (3m 30s):
Pete loved riding the bus from city to city to one less seven day trip took 'em off the whole deal, like four Paul for Jesus shelter achieves what everybody wants when they hit the road. She actually finds adventure. And it is not pretty this summer. When we've had reruns, we've been playing something. The earliest days of our radio show decades ago. This show today is one of those stay with us. Aquin on the road in a tuxedo,

4 (4m 11s):
There are two ways you feel when you interview a celebrity, there are those that make you feel like a person. Then they're the kind who make you feel like a blip. There's nothing wrong with a blip interview. In fact, it's liberating. You can say whatever you want to them. They will not. Remember you.

1 (4m 27s):
Years ago, reporter Mar Rockham was sent to do a magazine story about George Burns, who at that point had been a movie star, a star of early television, a star of radio, a vaudevillian, a comedian. He was 92 and for a 92 year old, he was spending a lot of time on the road. 25 shows a year at conventions, other one night gigs plus week-long stints in Vegas and Atlantic city. This is the story of road. Trip is business, not pleasure. George entourage and its entirety at that time included Irving fine is then 77 year old manager and Mory Jacobs, his piano player for at that time, 23 years from the start, it was Corda Margie.

1 (5m 10s):
They were kind men. They were polite men. They called her kid the way they called everybody kid. They reminded her a lot of, some of her older Jewish relatives, but this was a blip story.

4 (5m 29s):
Nine o'clock Friday night, Moscow, Idaho university Inn. We sit around in the common living room that connects George and Irving's bedrooms. George and Irving always get connected bedrooms with a living room in between if they can in the late afternoon, when it's quiet, this is where George and Irving like to sit. They watch television, they read the trades right now. Morty's here. The sun is set in its early evening. In general, they have three main topics of conversation. The act, the schedule and where they want to eat. Here's some typical dialogue. Mory will say, where should we eat? And Irving will say the broiler room. That's the hotel steakhouse.

4 (6m 9s):
And then George will say, John will know John's the handler who picked us up at the airport and drove us to the hotel. And then Irving will say, I think we should do the broiler room. And then George will say, John will know, ask John. And then Irving will say, I'm making a reservation at the broiler room, but not move towards the telephone and on and on and on. It's like dialogue that David mammo would write. If David Mammot wrote scenes where absolutely nothing was at stake, We head down to the broiler room all through dinner. There's this constant traffic of fans, including at 1.4 cheerleaders, they're wearing short skirts and tight sweaters and their nervous energy fills the room.

4 (6m 56s):
Go, George, go. They scream over and over again. While they shake and wiggle and do air splits and rattle their Cray paper pompoms, then floor show over. They run out in a single file. As if everything they do is part of a routine. Then in comes the chef to ask for George's autograph. But George Burns likes these intrusions. He's nourished by them. When it's finally quiet, he says to me, aren't people nice because I'm a reporter. I'm a blip, but the public gets his full attention. He establishes eye contact with each approaching fan and he smiles at them and he asks how they're doing. And when he leaves the Royal room, he'll choose the most complicated route, slowly threading his way through the tables of the main dining room, touching people on the shoulder lightly and saying things like don't pay the check,

6 (7m 56s):
Like be anywhere

4 (8m 0s):
While we're on the road. I probably see him do his act five times each time. It sounds totally spontaneous. Like he's making it up right there. Just riffing for the crowd. Even though give or take a gag or two, it's the exact same act he's been doing for 15 years

6 (8m 16s):
And thanking for that standing ovation for maybe he has a rule against the standing end of the show. You were afraid. I wouldn't laugh.

5 (8m 31s):
That

4 (8m 36s):
What's amazing about all this is that on the surface, the act doesn't seem to vary from city to city, but to George, it's an eternal work in progress every night he makes microscopic changes. Maybe he'll decide to sing young at heart before old bones. When he does this, he gets all worked up about it. Thinks about it all day long, but this is how he's been able to be on the road for so long. This is how he keeps the act feeling fresh for himself. Sometimes he'll change a punchline. He has a gags act about people having to retire when they're 70. He says when I was 70, I had pimples. But one day George tries out a new line on me.

4 (9m 16s):
He says when I was 70, I had Cubit's eczema. I think that sounds sort of dirty, but I'm not gonna be the one to tell him. In fact, I have tape of this, of myself lying to the nicest man on earth.

7 (9m 29s):
Why, what would you think that is? Cubit's eczema.

8 (9m 32s):
Is that like, I

4 (9m 33s):
Don't know, young.

8 (9m 35s):
You

7 (9m 35s):
Know what I mean? Doesn't sound dirty. Does it? No. Good. Okay. Is it? No, it's not supposed to be, oh,

8 (9m 41s):
No, it doesn't sound dirty

7 (9m 43s):
At Cuba when I was 70 at Cuban's examiner. Well, that is dirty. Most dirty. You're making it dirty is you're not what Cuban's examiner is. Could be anything. Well ZMA is a rash. A rash cubit is the love. They love rash. Okay, love rash. What's study about a love rash.

8 (10m 4s):
That's true.

4 (10m 8s):
George and Irving can go on like this for hours. They go back and forth and back and forth. And that night George tries out the Cuba's eczema line. It doesn't get laughs on the way home in the car, we're silent. George and a driver in the front, me in the back squeezed hip to elbow between Irving and Morty. Suddenly George's rumbling voice cuts through the darkness. I'll never do that again. He says, it's quiet for a while more Marty. He says tomorrow night let's and then the conversation starts all over again.

4 (10m 53s):
Normally when I think of going on the road, I think of waking up at any hour of not having to be anywhere at a certain time. You're on a big adventure. The rules no longer apply. There's no accountability, but that's a civilians road trip. I am on a very different kind of road trip. The road trip I'm on is not about adventure and unpredictability. The road trip I'm on is about making sure that everything is the same. This is the secret to George burns' longevity of how he's been able to stay on the road for so long, without going crazy. He wakes up at a certain time. He goes to sleep at a certain time. When he goes on the road, he likes his driver to take him to the airport in the late morning.

4 (11m 37s):
When he agrees to a booking it's stipulated in his contract, that he'll be provided with a back list. Still to sit on a lightly rehearsed orchestra, an astray to flick his ashes in and a pre-show speedball made up of a couple of martinis chased by a cup of black coffee. He will only smoke. I productos in the afternoon. He likes to take a two hour nap. He hates fresh fruit and vegetables. By the end of our time together, I could order for him in a restaurant if necessary. He likes BES shrimp cocktails. He likes roast chicken. He likes his martinis, but doesn't care. What brand of liquor they're made with. He just wants 'em to come one after the other. He is 92 and no one can tell him what is good or bad for him to put in his own mouth.

4 (12m 20s):
Same goes for what comes out of it. As the Jennifer Mo kick in his conversation tends to get naughty. One night, he recites to me a particularly memorable Limerick that involves a mouse, the phrase, Hickory Dickory doc, and a reference to his own private parts, Marty and Irving laughed. But I don't know what to do if I laugh too hard, I'm scared. They're gonna think I'm some sort of slight girl. And if I don't, then I'm a pill, no fun at all. I feel as if I'm in another country with different customs and morays. And so I simply try every possible reaction one after the other laughing, groaning, shaking my head, waiting for something that works.

4 (13m 5s):
The pace is very slow. I wake up in the morning, drink coffee, wait for Irving's call. Mostly I have free time. I lay on a variety of queen size beds in a variety of SHEG carpet, hotel rooms, and stare up at the ceiling one day Irving calls to invite me to talk to George. As he eats breakfast,

7 (13m 27s):
You want something kid? Nah, I'm just gonna wanted something for you. It's okay. I already had breakfast. You did, right? Yes I did. Did you do your cereal already, George? No, I don't like cereal. Yeah, you can do the cereal. George George

4 (13m 50s):
Is wearing a thick beige Terry cloth, bathrobe, beige pajamas and slippers. His stiff gray to pay is somewhere in the other room. It's startling to see the man that lives underneath the hair. The stacked healed shoes. The Chris tuxedo, he looks vulnerable. Bird-like I have this realization. This will be a man who I will get to know in the moments between words, even on a road trip designed to avoid surprises. I find myself surprised by these men. My view of them comes to change. As we spend more time together.

4 (14m 35s):
11:00 AM Reno, Nevada Valley's hotel. I'm trying to keep my focus, but I'm tired. Tired of the empty hours. Tired of waiting for Irving to call. Whenever I call my boyfriend, his answering machine picks up. Finally, I take the elevator to the hotel casino. I play the slot machines, mindlessly pulling down the handle. Somehow Irving finds me. I'm playing the quarter slots. I'm risking a grand total of $10, but he's positive that I will return home. Having handed over the title to my car.

4 (15m 16s):
He goes away. Then comes back and tells me it's time to quit. He goes away. Then comes back 15 minutes later and tells me again. I'm annoyed at his nagging and touched to save me from financial ruin. He asks me to take a walk with him. Irving takes my hand and loops it past his bent elbow, arm, and arm. We stroll past places with names like the Mapes hotel and the Liberty bell saloon. The way Irving is almost bouncing down the street, lets me know. He's enjoying that. We come off like a mismatch couple that I am his babe. And he is my silver haired, energetic sugar daddy. Most of the time Irving does the talking. He tells me about his past.

4 (15m 57s):
It's a history of 20th century show business, big jobs at CBS radio in the movie studios, Jack Benny hired him to be the president of his production company. It's a long story. Every once in a while though, Irving asked me personal questions about my family, about my friends, about my boyfriend. And then we head back to the hotel. And when we get to my room, he drops me off with this thought. He says, leave your boyfriend. He's no good find someone else. And he walks away and I stand there feeling conflicted. I think I'm no longer a blip Irving, but who does he think he is? He doesn't know me. He's never met my boyfriend a couple of years later.

4 (16m 40s):
I follow his advice. And every once in a while, I think back trying to remember what it was that I said to him. What allowed him to distill this conclusion for my small talk? How come he knew something that took so long for me to figure out? All I could come up with was how transparent I must have seemed to these men. Transparent like teenagers are to me. I mean, how many different human stories are there? These men had already been there. Finally we're on the road for so long that George is treating me like old news, which is where you wanna be with George.

4 (17m 22s):
When Irving lets me into George's suite before a show, George emerges from his room wearing shiny patent leather loafers, a crisp white shirt, a bow tie and a knee length, Paisley dressing gown. He is pantless. He doesn't wanna put on his tuxedo slacks until the very last minute. So they don't lose their knife. Sharp crease in the pocket of these pants is a watch chain on the watch chain is Gracie's tiny gold wedding ring. The way he tells the story of their marriage is that he discovered his one true talent. When he met Gracie Allen and he stayed married to her for 38 years, he was the brains of the act. The one who wrote almost every word she said, but she was the one who the public loved.

4 (18m 6s):
He tells me that since death in 1964, he visits her once a month at forest lawn cemetery. So he can tell her what's been going on in his life. But at first his need to see her was so great. That he'd go every day tonight, he shows me the ring,

7 (18m 22s):
What grace? He died. It was terrible, terrible he'd cry. And, and finally I started sleeping in Gracie's bed and that home for a lot when night when Gracie died that night, Bobby down said to be judged, Mr. Burney always called me. He says, you don't want to sleep alone. I said, always, I go home, sleep with me. I said, Bobby, I love it.

8 (18m 44s):
That's a wonderful thing to do. Yeah.

7 (18m 47s):
Slept with that. Yeah.

8 (18m 50s):
But I mean, did it take you a long time to sort of put your life back

7 (18m 54s):
Together? Well, I was shocked when grace died. I didn't think grace was gonna die. Sure. But good. Catherine.

8 (19m 3s):
So you sort, did you just sort, how long did it take you to sort of get back to work?

7 (19m 7s):
Oh, I started to work right away. Yeah. That got nothing to do with the show. Business has got nothing to do with that. That's you're doing your act. You're making a living. It's a different

8 (19m 18s):
Kind. But at that time you were financially solvent. I mean, you had plenty of money, wasn't it more just to sort of take your line, not

7 (19m 25s):
Plenty of money now and I'm working,

8 (19m 27s):
But you enjoy it. That's right. Okay. So at that time, was it more to sort of, you know, to, to not, what are you gonna do

7 (19m 34s):
Around? What would you do to somebody die? You sit on and cry. That's how long can you cry? Cry for two hours, you cry and you cry and you cry and find no more tears, how you go to work and you feel bad, but every time you come home, you feel bad. Grace isn't there.

4 (20m 2s):
One night years later, I was sitting at a restaurant in west Los Angeles. When I saw George come in, he was with a couple of men and a youngest woman. And they all hovered around him. He had aged so much. He moved slowly and was so tiny that he seemed to be lost inside of the dark suit. He was wearing. They all slipped into a red booth and ordered dinner. I think the waiter brought Georgia martini when it was time to go. I walked right by him, but I didn't say hello. The George. I was always a blip, just another friendly face on the road.

1 (20m 42s):
Margie Rocklin in Los Angeles lately. She is the cohost of the food podcast. Linoleum knife four, not two male C A road trip can be a profound test of any relationship. Expectations are high. Everybody's looking for a break from regular life looking for a good time. And yet at the same time, you're in circumstances that can make anybody irritable. And you're together all the time. All the time, cuz of this road trip can save a marriage or destroy it. We bring you this case example told by common Rivera and Cando Toronto at the Newan cafe in guess which east coast city they say that a friend of Carmen decided to get married in Italy.

1 (21m 30s):
The friend was already married, but the friend did not hold her parents. So she decided to get married again on her anniversary, in Italy with her parents present.

11 (21m 42s):
So we think it's a good idea, but we're not really sure if we wanna go with, she invites us to the wedding and we're not really sure cuz we had gone to Italy the year before and we're kind of not getting along. We we're, we're not communicating and we're kind of angry at each other. And it was like this at this atmosphere of a general malaise in the house

10 (22m 2s):
Malaise.

11 (22m 6s):
That's what it was. What would you wanna call it?

10 (22m 10s):
Fighting. Okay. Changing the TV channel. I mean we fought about

11 (22m 15s):
Everything. Yeah, but that was like a malaise.

10 (22m 16s):
Okay. Whatever. Okay.

11 (22m 20s):
Okay. So we're in this malaise. And so we, we haven't decided yet and we get a phone call from Paris, from a friend of ours, Malika who invites us to stay in her house in Paris. And we tell her about the wedding in Italy and she goes, well, why don't you come stay with me? And then we'll all go together to Italy. So I think that's a great idea, but we can kind of be with friends. I

10 (22m 44s):
To interrupt here when she says Paris, so you don't get the idea. This is an obsession ever since I know her, she says, I wanna go to Paris. I wanna go to Paris. True. That's don't exaggerate every movie that has Paris in the backdrop. We see every magazine article look, Cando Paris. So I decided to quench this thirst.

11 (23m 6s):
All right. That's kind of true. Okay. So I'm really psyched and I'm thinking, okay, maybe if we go to Paris, we can work on our, you know,

10 (23m 14s):
Malay.

11 (23m 18s):
So next thing we know we're in Paris and it's better than I ever thought it could be. The light was amazing. And the architecture's amazing. The art, the food, it was, it was

10 (23m 30s):
Wonderful. West Malika, the person that was gonna give us the apartment to stay in,

11 (23m 36s):
She's nowhere to be found and we call her apartment and they say the number's disconnected. So we're so we get, we get a hotel room in the, in the left bank and I'm just really overly excited. And one day in our way to the Eiffel tower, we, we go through the Jina Luxemburg, which is a beautiful park and outta the corner of my eye, I see chest tables. And like we said before, he's a chess master. He's a national master. He ranks he's in the top 1% of this, of the United States. So the last thing I wanna see is the chess table. So I tell, so I tell him, look, Candi, look at the puppet show over there.

11 (24m 17s):
Isn't that really great. All these little kids look, tennis courts. Wow. There's so many things to look

10 (24m 22s):
Chess tables over here. So let's go see.

11 (24m 25s):
So we're in this great romantic city, city of love and we're supposed to, you know, trying to reconnect and, and cure our malaise. And he spent all his time in Paris playing chess. And I spent my time

10 (24m 38s):
Going to museum, stuff like that, who cares? I mean,

11 (24m 44s):
So then it's time to go to the wedding

10 (24m 46s):
The week passes and we take a train overnight to Paris now to Moderna, to Moderna excuse me. But we get to Moderna and her friend, we call her and she says, yeah, I'll be there in 25 minutes comes to pick us up in three hours. And I saw that as a sign that we shouldn't be there. We should be in Paris where I could be playing chess. And Carmen didn't wanna go back because

11 (25m 13s):
He, because I knew that as soon as we got back to Paris, he would play chess. So I was like, no way, I want a vacation. We're gonna be here in Italy. We're gonna support my friend. I don't wanna hear any, I don't wanna hear the word chess.

10 (25m 22s):
So her friend lives, like we thought she lived in the city, but she really lives like in Arkansas, you know, cow country. So now we get stuck in this house in Arkansas

11 (25m 35s):
For the Meine,

10 (25m 36s):
For Meine and, and she drops us there with her non-English Spanish speaking parents. And she lives to the country house and leaves us there.

11 (25m 49s):
And then she cancels the wedding and she decides not even to tell her parents that she's married. So, so we spend that week along with her parents and

10 (26m 5s):
We wasn't that bad

11 (26m 6s):
Cause they were pretty nice. And, and

10 (26m 8s):
We got drunk a couple of times and, but

11 (26m 11s):
On lament, out of chestnuts and they were very nice to us, but he's complaining again. There's no chess. Everything's old. It looks like a tomb. I'm upset. There's no chess players here. I wanna leave. I

10 (26m 20s):
Get close to folic. You know, so, but we start fighting more

11 (26m 25s):
And more start. So we start fighting more and more. My friend asks me if I support her decision about the sweating. I tell her, no. I mean, you're, you know, you're 35 years old. You should tell your parents you're married. And so she's mad at me. So she stops talking to me, he's him. And I have the, one of the hugest fights and we break up and he says, you know what, I'm going back to Paris. I'm going to Paris. And I'm like, go. So I'm like go. But I'm in. I have all the passports. I take care of the tickets. I'm the one that made all the phone calls in French and Italian. So I tell him, okay, if you can figure out on your own how to get back to Paris, you can go. So he couldn't figure out how to get back. So he stayed with me.

10 (27m 4s):
I knew how to go back. I just didn't know how to speak the language to get back, you know?

11 (27m 9s):
Okay. Alright. So the next stage of this whole trip is to go to Corsica and we had made plans. So we all go. So my friend is mad. They're, they're fighting and we're fighting. And we wind up in Corsica.

10 (27m 21s):
Now, Corsica, I don't know you've been there, but it's like the ugliest place I've ever been to. And it's these ugly rocks coming out from the ground. And so I'm not really happy here. And I feel more and more close to fall because now I'm in another country. So we drive down and we turn the mountain and we go to the south of Corsica Corsica, which is Bonifacio

11 (27m 47s):
Bon Fatio, it's the Southern most city.

10 (27m 50s):
And they turned and we come up into this beautiful town and the other people, they went camping. So we wouldn't go camping with them because I don't camping in New York. You know, I'm not traveling across the world to go camping. So they get very angry at us. Of course, you know, that's another thing to be angry about. And we get to manufacturing. It's like the most, one of the most beautiful places I've ever been to.

11 (28m 16s):
It's built into the rock, but it looks like Monica has those kind of lights. It's very romantic. And our friend drops us off in, in our hotel and she goes, well, I'll see you next week. And she just drives off.

10 (28m 27s):
Now we don't have work. We don't have chess. We don't have her friend. And all we have left between us is our general malaise. Okay.

11 (28m 39s):
So we, so we start first. We're not really talking to each other and he's really upset. He's like, you know, this really sucks. I can't believe that you did this to me. You know, I could've been in Paris and, but then we start taking walks. I mean, we have, there's really not much else to do. And so one

10 (28m 54s):
Morning

11 (28m 55s):
We go to, we even go to, there's a beautiful prehistoric town and, and we start kind of connecting and talking about the history. One morning, we, we eating in a, we're eating breakfast in a beautiful restaurant. That's built into the rock and it's a very clear day and we're in the patio and you can see Sarnia and it Dawn me's like, wow, we're, you know, two Puerto Ricans from the Bronx and we're here. And, and we see Sarnia and this beautiful day and I look over to candy. I'm like, wow, I'm really glad I'm sharing this with him.

10 (29m 29s):
I was feeling the same way.

11 (29m 31s):
So Sunday morning was the seventh day she calls and she says, okay, be downstairs in 20 minutes, we go downstairs, 20 minutes. She comes and we get back in the car and it took 12 hours to get back to for me, cuz there's a long ride, there's a ferry. And then there's another long ride in Italy. And in those 12 hours, nobody said a word. And she, they, she was really upset and we, we we're kind of feeling good, but we just reading the vibe and we're like, okay, we shouldn't say anything.

10 (29m 58s):
The next morning we pack and we supposed to be leaving about four to catch the five o'clock train. And,

11 (30m 5s):
And she, well, she comes

10 (30m 6s):
To somewhere about 12 o'clock. She calls Carmen over.

11 (30m 8s):
She wants to talk to me privately. And she brings me into this office and her, she has a, a really big house. And she says, and you know, I'm really mad at you because you know, you didn't talk to me in the way back from Corsica. And you know, I don't know what's up with you and, and you

10 (30m 23s):
Didn't go camping.

11 (30m 24s):
You didn't go camping with me. You, you, you went to Paris first and you said you were gonna come here earlier. And, and, but you then you were here too long in my house. And you used every, you know, used up two, you used the washing machine and like my God make up your mind while you, you know, if you're upset at me, just pick something, just, you know, I was so confused. And then it dawned me kind of, you know, this, this might, this is not the friendship. I thought it was. And I'm like, well, you know what? I can't, I'm not gonna deal with this. I'm outta here. She goes like, fine. Get outta my house right now. So I get go Gandhi. Who's in the backyard playing chess, studying

10 (30m 57s):
Chess. I carry my chess books with me. I mean my chess book and my chessboard,

11 (30m 60s):
But you know, we we're happy. So I don't feel like a chest window anymore. So it's okay. So I got told we have to leave.

10 (31m 6s):
So we pack and now as we're packing and I know something's gonna happen, cuz we have to have that blow up. You know, we go outside and there's a black cloud, right? Top of the house and starts to rain on top of the house. It wasn't raining any other place. There was sun all over the place except on top of the house. So I said, okay, this is the universe. You know, playing the trick in us or God laughing at us. And her mother says, take them to the train station.

11 (31m 32s):
Now her mother doesn't know anything,

10 (31m 35s):
Anything. So I know we not gonna make it to a train station cause in the car we're gonna come to blows. So she takes the back bros down the tomato fields and she begins to berate us. And she, and she says starts

11 (31m 47s):
Argue. She just rehashes the whole argument all over again. And how that we couldn't make it on our own to the, to the train station. We had done it every

10 (31m 54s):
So smart. Why don't you make it on your

11 (31m 56s):
Own? And we had just done it before

10 (31m 57s):
In Arkansas. That's why

11 (32m 3s):
That true. So, so she, she says, well, if you don't let me speak, I'm gonna throw you outta the car.

10 (32m 9s):
So we said, throw us out, throw us out. Well she did,

11 (32m 12s):
She gets outta the car. She takes all our bags out. She's like, get outta here. I never wanna see you again. Stop

10 (32m 17s):
Traffic. I mean, that's like 50 cars now looking at us people, getting out the cars

11 (32m 22s):
And leaves us with our bags, walking down this, this, this road,

10 (32m 26s):
But we have a cart. So we put all the bags in the cart and suddenly we feel free.

11 (32m 31s):
We start laughing,

10 (32m 32s):
We start laughing and we never felt so free in this three weeks. And as we walked down this, you know, it was like five miles away from the train station. So we walked down this straight narrow road. I started thinking about the soldiers in world war II when the war was over and they were going home and they had won the war and Carmen and I are

11 (32m 58s):
Walking. We looked at each and we talked about that. This war that we just been through and, and it just felt so peaceful and, and that's so right. I fell in love again. It was really beautiful.

10 (33m 13s):
Thank you.

11 (33m 14s):
Thank you very much.

1 (33m 17s):
I remember Rivera and Cando. Toronto told their story during an evening of traveling stories held by the moth. They are still together this year long after telling that story on stage, they celebrated their 28th wedding anniversary. They say this trip taught them how to travel together. Their playwrights Carmen's play lo gringa just marked its 26th year running off Broadway in New York city coming up the retail price of one wish. Is it $5, $10 more. Now other discoveries on the road. That's in a minute from Chicago bubble radio. When our program continues

BetterHelp (33m 53s):
Support for this American life comes from better help therapy online. When life gets challenging, it can be difficult to stay in a positive problem solving mode without getting stuck on the negative. A therapist can help you work towards becoming a better problem solver, making it easier to accomplish your goals, big or small, whatever they are. If you're thinking of giving therapy, a try better help is convenient, accessible, affordable, and entirely online. When you wanna become a better problem solver visit better help.com/t L for 10% off your first month of therapy online, that's better. H E L p.com/tal

Shopify (34m 31s):
support for this American life comes from Shopify. The all-in-one commerce platform to start, run and grow your business. Shopify gives entrepreneurs the resources once reserved for big business so they can sell everywhere, synchronize online and in person sales and effortlessly stay informed, reach customers online and across social networks with integrations and apps, including Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, and more Shopify powers, millions of businesses from first sale to full scale, go to shopify.com/this American life. All lowercase for a free 14 day trial, shopify.com/this American life.

Modern Love Podcast (35m 7s):
Hey, this American life listeners, I'm Anna Martin, the host of the modern love podcast. In every episode, we peek into an intimate corner of someone's life and learn about what love means to them. You know, I can tell you 35 years with another person, I've never spent that much time with anyone else either. So we both kind of said, I love you pretty fast. My advice is that it's okay. If it's hard, you can listen to modern love wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (35m 38s):
This is American life, Myra glass, each week program. Of course, we choose a theme, invite a variety of writers and performers to tackle that theme today's show while lots of people are still out at beaches and mountains and far from their own homes road trip, the pleasures and disappointments of life on the road. We've arrived at act three of our program act three busman's holiday. So today's show is a rerun and very long time listeners to our program may remember dishwasher. Pete Pete spent years traveling from state to state washing dishes and publishing this zine that he made called dishwasher, which he would mail you back then, if you would send him $1, his goal was to wash dishes in all 50 states.

1 (36m 22s):
And to do that, what he would do is that he would usually get a job and stay in a place for a few weeks and then take the Greyhound bus to the next town and get another job. And so he spent a lot of time on buses when he put together this next story, he was living in Portland, but he was only too happy to get back on the bus.

15 (36m 41s):
I like riding Greyhound over the last eight years. I figure I've ridden at least a hundred thousand miles on Greyhound in total, about four solid months of my life have been spent cooped up in their buses. I would consider it my home away from home. If only I had home, what I like most about Greyhound is how long it takes to get anywhere on the bus. Airline passengers love to complain about the five excruciatingly long hours. It takes to fly from coast to coast, but on the bus that same distance takes three full days to cover, which is what I think is about the perfect amount of time for such a trip. And unlike airplane flights, no movies are shown on Greyhound. No headsets handed out, no free magazines available, no waitresses, forced bags of peanuts on you.

15 (37m 24s):
Every five minutes on the bus passengers are largely left alone with their thoughts. I have this theory about people who ride Greyhound, about how, as we sit on the bus for hours and days waiting to reach our destination, we travel in what I call a transitional state thinking about where we're coming from and where we're going to. I know I do. And from my talking to other people on the bus, I know many others do as well. For example, this one route I've ridden a lot, go south through Crescent city, California, home of the Pelican bay, maximum security prison.

15 (38m 7s):
I rode next to this guy. Who'd been locked away for 14 years and had just gotten out across the aisle from me was a teenager with a buzz cut on his way to bootcamp. We talked for a while, but mostly we just sat and thought about the different places we were headed for a long time. I've been wanting to tape record the stories I've heard on the bus to document this phenomenon that I've been trying to figure out. So I was pretty excited when this American life offer does send me on a Greyhound trip with a fancy tape recorder and a seven day Amara pass for a week. I could wander any Greyhound route I chose and test my theory about the bus. So I packed up a loaf of peanut butter and jelly sandwiches and a bunch of bananas and stepped on a Greyhound.

15 (38m 50s):
I spent the first 10 hours traveling down the coast of Oregon. I was so eager to talk with the other passengers. I stayed awake all night, even though everyone else was sleeping, it wasn't until we stopped for breakfast in Crescent city, that I was finally able to strike up a conversation. Steve was about 50 years old, sported, a bushy beard, and wore an olive green army jacket, a large wooden crucifix dangled from his neck. He said he was an itinerant preacher in that Greyhound was his chapel.

16 (39m 17s):
Well, I just preach in my own time, you know, not any specific times and usually try to avoid audiences when I do speak, cuz that way I, I reduce the possibilities of rejection or mockery.

17 (39m 29s):
So you, you avoid

15 (39m 32s):
You avoid audiences and then who are you talking to?

16 (39m 34s):
Well, see, I believe in transmission of voice or spirit can transmit 360 degrees into the world. Times 360 degrees.

15 (39m 44s):
And, and Greyhound's conducive for, for your traveling ministry.

16 (39m 49s):
Most of my preaching is done by myself. Just speaking into the air though, without another human being, being there, you might be one of the first human beings that's that's ever really listened to me or acknowledged that in, in my presence

15 (40m 3s):
Steve's ministry was not limited to the teachings of Christ, but also included a healthy dose of praise for natural medicines like cannabis and opium. I thought I was agreeing with him when I said that it did seem ridiculous that pharmaceutical companies simply sold nature back to us. But Steve took a fence and pulled out a bottle of Amol, which he described as 60% grain alcohol plus Benza can,

16 (40m 25s):
Which is a chemical as a chemical, similar to the naturally occurring cocaine. And so if a person likes, well, it's just a little topical anesthetic, which is like a local number. And so they, they talk about too thick and things of that nature, just something certainly not a central nervous system relaxant like the opium poppy, which I consider more of a valuable plant cuz of it's pain relief. But

15 (40m 58s):
So good luck.

16 (40m 59s):
Just a little nip, just a little nip now.

15 (41m 3s):
So is that numbing your whole mouth now?

16 (41m 5s):
Well it takes takes about 10, 15 seconds. It's not actually there isn't immediate effect, but yes it is. It is actually believe it or not numbing and very pleasant.

15 (41m 20s):
Steve continued talking, but it became increasingly difficult to understand what he was saying as his speech slurred by the end of our 15 minute talk, he told me it was the longest conversation he had in the last three and a half years. Then Steve got on the northbound bus bound for Portland. And I continued on to San Francisco from San Francisco. I rode 10 hours to Los Angeles sitting next to an 11 year old kid that didn't want to talk to me at the Hollywood bus station. I saw a bus headed for San Francisco and figured what the heck. Maybe I'd get lucky on that bus. So I spent the next 10 hours retracing my route back north sitting beside a guy who slept the whole way.

15 (42m 1s):
I had to wonder where were all the talkers, all those chatty passengers that usually sit next to me and share their stories about where they're coming from or going to in Reno, I switched to a bus route. I've always been curious about the one that headed south through old mining towns, down to Las Vegas. My attempts to find out who rode that particular bus led nowhere. I approached the other half dozen passengers one by one, but no one would talk to me On the bus from Las Vegas to flag stuff, Arizona. I asked the woman sitting next to me. If I could record our conversation for the radio, she acted like I was nuts. You want to talk to me about Greyhound for the radio?

15 (42m 42s):
What radio station is that? Well explained? It's a show that's on different stations in different cities. What station is it on in Los Angeles? Then she asked Los Angeles. I'm not sure you wanna record me for the radio. And you don't even know what station it is. Yeah. Right. She's scoffed. Give me a break. She alerted the other passengers around us that I was trying to pull something over on her soon. I was verbally assaulted from all sides. The butt of everyone's jokes. I put the tape recorder away and stared out the window. My enthusiasm for this trip was rapidly dwindling at a rest stop.

15 (43m 26s):
I slinked away from the pack of passengers who were smoking their cigarettes and ridiculing me and stood off by myself. Maybe I'd been wrong. Maybe there wasn't anything significant on the minds of Greyhound passengers. After all, when the smoke break ended, I reluctantly got back on the bus On any bus. There's usually some sort of outcast like the drunk guy who smells like urine or the woman babbling to herself. Then it dawned on me with these dorky headphones on my head, this foot long microphone in hand, trying to get people to let me interview them about where they're going. It was me.

15 (44m 6s):
I was the weirder on this bus. Hello. Well, I guess since nobody else will talk to me on this bus and there's only a couple people on this bus and we've got about nine more hours to go and it doesn't look like anybody else could be getting on the bus cuz we are in the middle of the desert. So let me as well talk to myself. We are somewhere in the desert. I can see while we're traveling under clear blue sky, I can see about 30 miles and a whole lot of dirt rocks.

15 (44m 59s):
I guess I didn't have much more to say than anybody else on the bus. All these years, I've boasted up being some sort of hearty, Greyhound, passenger impervious to all those things that many people complain about. The seemingly never ending rides. The annoying passengers, the claustrophobia. I mean I've sat next to a guy, vomiting on himself and is no big deal. I've sat across the aisle from people having noisy sex and it didn't bother me. But now on this trip, grey hand was starting to get to me On the bus to Phoenix.

15 (45m 43s):
I found myself wedged between the window and a guy who took up way too much of my seat. I tried to sleep for the first time in days, but found that I couldn't, my whole body was sore. I had shooting pains in the back of my thighs. My back ached. I had a headache. The baby in front of me cried the whole way. The toddler behind me got smacked around for not sitting still after having been pumped up on candy, I was becoming increasingly claustrophobic. I was beginning to lose it. Normally I survive long bus rides by concentrating on my destination. But now I didn't have a destination. I wasn't really going anywhere. How could I expect to find anyone in the transitional state when I wasn't even in transition myself, maybe this was the problem with the whole mission.

15 (46m 28s):
I had ceased being a regular Greyhound passenger. I was an outsider. I stood in line for the bust of Las Cruces, New Mexico, trying to calm down. I thought I was in control until I watched a mother drag her kicking and crying toddler across the bus station by the kid's hair. I snapped. I couldn't take it. I couldn't handle being constantly surrounded by so many people anymore. I sure wasn't feeling at home. Like I usually do. I stepped outta line for their last Cru bus. I had to get home. Sadly Portland was still a 36 hour ride away At the Arizona, California border.

15 (47m 16s):
A new passenger sat down across the aisle from me, not needing any more abuse from strangers. I resisted my initial temptation to talk with her a couple miles down the road. I watched her pull a Polaroid photo from her purse, stare at it for a half minute and then tuck it back in her purse. A minute later she had the photo out again. And this time I snuck a peek and saw that it was a photo of her sitting in the lap of a guy wearing prison carb. Since she had boarded the bus in a prison town, I realized she had probably just visited a jailed boyfriend or husband. Now she had to sit on the bus for who knows how many hours and dwell upon the person she had just left. At last, I thought the one person I had been looking for on this whole trip, someone in transition, someone who could help me prove my theory about the bus, her name was Lisa and she was just as suspicious with me as any other passenger had been, but she did consent to let our conversation be recorded,

18 (48m 9s):
Arizona, Arizona, nothing great. No,

15 (48m 21s):
The conversation didn't get very far. She gave only one or two word replies to most of my questions. Eventually she ended up asking me the majority of the questions. After a couple of awkward minutes, I put the microphone and tape recorder away. She stared at her photograph some more. While I watched the desert and the fading sunlight a half hour later after the bus had darkened and people dozed off, Lisa tapped me on the arm and told me she had inherited powers from her grandmother powers with which she could grant me any wish I desired for this service. She would only charge me $5 at my shop.

15 (49m 3s):
She said, usually I charge 10, $20 for a wish. She said it just like that. 10 $20. Well, $5 for a wish seemed like a bargain. So I started counting out the hundreds of nickels. I had one in a Las Vegas slot machine, but she said, it'd only work with a $5 bill. I didn't have any fives, but I did have a 10, a 10 will work. She said, I followed her instructions, folding the bill into a little ball and handed it to her. She squeezed it in her fist and said, now make a wish, but you can't tell anyone what it is. So I made a wish. Then she told me, I tell her my second and third wishes that these wishes were important too, but not as important as the super important first wish.

15 (49m 47s):
Well, in my state, I only had one wish that I needed fulfilling. So I just made stuff up for the merely important second and third wishes, wishing for better health and a new romance in the dark bus. She whispered across the aisle assuring me that I was now in better health and that I could expect a new love in my life. Then she asked me to tell her my super important wish my number one wish, but you told me not to tell anyone. I said, you can tell me. She said, but don't tell anyone else. So I told her, I wished I wasn't riding the bus anymore. Oh, she said, you're tired of riding the bus.

15 (50m 28s):
I can see it in your face. That you're very tired. You have a kind face. She whispered about my face and described how tired I looked for five minutes mentioning three times that while I might be laughing on the outside, I was really crying on the inside, but I wasn't laughing. Not even on the outside. When she was done, I watched her slip my tent in her pocket. Meanwhile, I was still on the bus.

1 (51m 1s):
Dishwasher peed is Pete Jordan. After years of making the zine dishwasher, he collected his adventures across the country in a memoir dishwasher. One man's quest to wash dishes in all 50 states. These days he runs radical honesty workshops up in Amsterdam

19 (51m 26s):
Running. So wherever I go from sea smell, smiles are lovely. Treating windows, mumbling, freaks, crying, breath, and orange feeling like I'm wearing. I'm going now

1 (51m 41s):
At four for Jesus. So what we want on the road, many of us is adventure. And what is adventure, but a moment or series of moments that you never could have predicted before you left home. We have this story about one such moment from Cheryl trick a warning. If you're listening with children right now, this story contains a lot of anti-social behavior.

20 (52m 5s):
It's 1990 and she's wearing a 1977 bleach blonde fair faucet, feather do, and Electrica blue, Maybelline mascara, which contrasts nicely with the lime green polyester manager's pants suit she's got on. And she's telling me no, not for under $50 a night, not for under $50 a night. Will she let me leave my car in the parking lot of her P paw, Michigan Speedway, convenience store gas station this after an hour and a half of my going in and out buying chips and juice and cigarettes. Wondering what I'm gonna do with the Ford links. I've borrowed from a friend which has now got a split valve or something and has busted all to hell.

20 (52m 47s):
And I'm in the middle of God. Nowhere on the other side of duo on my way to Kalamazoo for a getaway weekend, I wanted to see America. I ask her why I can't leave my car in the parking lot. She says, it's the rule I ask. Who makes the decisions about that rule? She says she does. She says company policy. Well, whose company is it? She tells me it's her company. And she doesn't break the rules. Why you little and can't you be a friend I'm thinking to myself.

20 (53m 32s):
I don't say it, but boy, I'd like to. Instead I remind her very softly about American hospitality and how Americans are known the world over for their friendly, peaceful, helping nature. I tell her that I noticed on my way in, through her charming little town, a sweet and simple church with a banner out front that red bold yet humble pop off for Jesus. There are a few customers in the store. So I say it again. Louder, pop off for Jesus. Pop off for Jesus. An older gentleman with an Abraham Lincoln beard and an Elvis Presley, K stares at me, blankly. The manager tells me to cut the crap and get outta the store.

20 (54m 14s):
Okay? I say to her, I look at her name, badge Maryanne. I'll get out of your store, but I ain't never coming back to Papa and I turn and walk away. As I walk away, I accidentally shove my body against a candy bar display case, knocking over hundreds and thousands of three Musketeers Reese's special, dark and Snickers, sweet tarts, fly and spill a grand gesture of public nuisance. That's it misses Maryanne says from behind the counter, your big city ass is cooked. I'm calling the police. You idiot. I think to myself on my way out the door, do I look married to you?

2 (55m 1s):
I

20 (55m 1s):
Make it to the highway in no time. Flat speed. Walk backwards with my thumb in the air, calling out to passing cars, Papa for Jesus, pop off for Jesus. A few cars, honk and wave, but nobody stops. I can't imagine it might be what I'm wearing. The same jet black cocktail dress I wore the night before. Maybe my lipstick is too blood red for broad daylight in a small town like Papa. Maybe I just don't seem like I belong here. Finally, a van pulls over. It's a Chevy van, one with a mural painted on the side, depicting what king Arthur and GWE Avir might look like in the near 2,500 king. Arthur wears a gold mash nuclear cleanup suit. He carries a sword in one hand and a laser gun in the other GWE Ave is nude an amply bucks.

20 (55m 47s):
Some where her pubic hair might be. She holds the holy grail. The driver leans over and opens the door. It's a man. What a surprise I get in. He asks how it is. He's never seen me before, maybe because I don't pose nude for Playboy. At the mention of Playboy. He steps on the gas, speeds it to 105. I've never gone 105 in his Chevy van before it feels pretty good, faster. I say, and we both start laughing. I roll down my window, stick my head out and yell, pop off of Jesus to the wind. I feel like taking off my top, but I don't.

20 (56m 29s):
Instead I sit back down into the passenger seat bucket, severely vinyl, light a cigarette, and enjoy as best I can. The REO speed wagon tape. He's got blasting. He asked me why I'm hitchhiking. And just as he does his Sheriff's car speeds past us on its way back into town. That's why I say cops, what have I got against cops? He wants to know nothing. It's just that I'm allergic to pork. It occurs to me at this point to shut up. I really don't know this man. And in all likelihood, he is brother of Maryanne manager of the Speedway who is daughter of the sheriff of Papa.

20 (57m 9s):
And that I am headed for a trap and in one great whirling moment of brilliance, it becomes very clear to me what I must do. And that is sham. This Vic, it isn't all that difficult. I've seen it in the movies just before treat Williams, get its his hair shaved in the woods. Beverly Danelo steals a four door Ford from an army officer by seducing him down to his underwear. She takes off with his car, his money and his clothes, which is exactly what I mean to do, To prepare myself for this role of a lifetime. I changed the tape to hotel California.

20 (57m 52s):
The Vic's neck is nasty with sweat, which I ordinarily wouldn't mind, but it has the stale sweet taste of a flat mountain Dew. I force myself to enjoy it by the end of the last resort, new kid in town wasted time and wasted time reprise. He is down to his fruit of the loom and I am wearing dark blue, quarterly Levis, a queen concert t-shirt and a feed cap with an American flag that reads dry burning. This one mother shortly, I create in him the most urgent desire to pull over to the side of the road. And while I'm straddling his lap, I somehow open the door with my foot and with my very strong legs, kick him out of the van, down onto the asphalt, his stunned, sorry, eyes looking up at me in surprise.

20 (58m 38s):
Did you lose something 30 miles or so? Up the road. I spotty hitchhiker with a shaved head and a backpack. Hmm. Somebody needs a ride. I pull over, she asks me where I'm going to hell. Wanna come

1 (59m 2s):
In Chicago,

21 (59m 11s):
We

2 (59m 22s):
Until

1 (59m 24s):
Was reduced today by Julie Snyder and myself with Elise Spiegel and Nancy EG our senior editor for this show. Paul tough contributing editors, Jack hit Margie Rocklin and consul her how special. Thanks today to Joey Sanders at the Mo production up on this rerun from Valerie KIPP stone Nelson and Matt Tierney in the years, since we first broadcast today's show all the older gentlemen in Margie, Rockland story have all died. George Burns Irving fine and Mory Jacobs, our website, this American life.org, where you can stream our archive of over seven 50 shows for absolutely free. Also there's videos. There's lists of favorite shows to listen to on your road trips and tons of other stuff there too. Again, this American life.org, this American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX.

1 (1h 0m 8s):
The public radio exchange makes Zoe show programs co-founder to mal who says yes, yes. Call pledge all the money you want to public radio. Just as long as you don't pay the checker glass back next week with more stories of this American life.