Michigan Business (3s):
Southeastern Michigan put the world on wheels. It's only fitting that it's also where visitors can see the past present and future of the American automobile. Take a spin and a restored model T in Greenfield village or board, the Rosa parks bus, and a tour of the Henry Ford museum of American innovation in Dearborn drive a Michigan made electric vehicle to the bungalow. Henry Ford used as a getaway available for rank. Year-round pursue your pure in pure Michigan. Go to michigan.org for more information.

2 (35s):
It's a typical camp. All the normal activities, canoeing, archery sports. There are two girls who everybody calls the homesick girls who will cheerfully identify themselves that way to anybody they meet.

3 (48s):
Oh, I do. I swear to God. I want to go home. I want to go

4 (51s):
On to glutamate

2 (53s):
Because it's a pretty upscale camp. There's also horseback riding and on the rifle range, suburban girls from Chicago's north shore lay on their bellies in sniper position while a real former Israeli soldier barks orders about how to shoot.

5 (1m 6s):
I know it's really hard for you ladies to keep it quiet, but to try okay. Pain higher,

2 (1m 16s):
The boys' cabins are all named after native American tribes. The girls' cabins are all named after women's colleges. So perky little suburban kids are constantly informing you. I'm an Apache I'm Mohawk. I'm in Vassar. I'm in Bryn Mawr and it seems pretty simple, but everybody here will tell you no one back home understands it. None of their friends, nobody there is just a gap between camp people and non-camp people

6 (1m 42s):
I know like all the time during school, I'm like, I don't want to go to camp. I want to do this

4 (1m 45s):
Camp is all I talk about during the year. Yeah. My friends get so mad at me. They're like, we don't want to hear about camp anymore. Cause like everything that goes on at home, you can always think of something that like relates something that happened at camp. And so then you tell that and there'll be like camp. We've heard about camp way too much.

6 (2m 8s):
It's also like little stories you tell. And like, you think they're so funny and everybody and you're Kevin understands them and then you go home and you're laughing and they have, they'll give you like a look like what are you talking about? And like that stupid.

2 (2m 23s):
Well today in our program, we try to bridge the gap between camp people and non camp. People who try to understand what is the cult-like mystical connection. Some people feel with their summer camps from WB, easy Chicago, public radio international. It's this American life I'm IRA glass today on our program notes on camp, six different notes, some recorded at a summer camp and some amazing stories that actually came from you. People who've listened to this program and called us up to talk. Camp, stay with us. Most of today's program takes place in Michigan, not far from Papaw two affiliated camps Greenwoods and lake of the woods. One is a boys camp. One's a girls camp, but they sit on the same land.

2 (3m 5s):
They share everything. Basically they function as one camp producer, Julie Snyder. And I spent a fair amount of time there. Julie usually hung out with the girls. I usually stayed with the boys here. Then our findings note, number one, Mr. Popular.

7 (3m 22s):
Let's try the course again, something in that last part is weird.

2 (3m 25s):
Counselors. David Hammel and Dean Heinz practice a song for Saturday nights, camp show.

7 (3m 30s):
All right, ready? Okay. Annie van hit. I had a girlfriend who he could always come. She'd always be there. Phone him in spite of all his foods, he was the worst guy ever file. And his spies even Hitler had a girlfriend. So why can't it goes too high then that's the problem. It's going to high VIN. Hitler had a girlfriend. So why can't you do it?

2 (4m 2s):
David Hammel has been coming to this camp since he was 11. Now he's a counselor and a sailing instructor, college, sophomore boy with blue blue eyes who actually has no trouble getting a girlfriend like a lot of campers and counselors we met at this camp. He says that all the best moments of his life have either been at camp or with camp people,

7 (4m 19s):
Camp. It's just it's number one with everything I do. I guess that's like camp is just it's. It's kind of ridiculous, but it's like everything. It, it changes people's lives. Like people base their life around camp. Like I would not be who I am. It wasn't for camp.

2 (4m 34s):
Who would you be?

7 (4m 37s):
I don't know. I think I would. I enjoy things better now because of camp, you know like when you live so close to people like this and it's sort of a college, but it's like everybody camp, it's just real close knit. It's like a bond that just happens. And that's why like a day at camp is like two weeks in real life. It's like a time warp here

2 (4m 60s):
And people at summer camp, tree David with a deference that few of us get in real life. He and I are walking around camp one day when a group of 13 year old girls comes up to us.

8 (5m 12s):
He's the best counselor in the world. And we love him so much.

2 (5m 15s):
What makes him the best counselor in the

7 (5m 16s):
World?

8 (5m 17s):
Spelling. He takes a sailing. He's cool. We made him all this food, made him a song and I'm live a song for him. I'll sing it all across the big lake Davies. The one that keeps us awake. We got the rider. We got the sail Davey. He's our mail. We got a D a E Y. We got a D a V E Y. We got a D a V E Y Davy. He's a guy. <inaudible> number one, Davis. Number one. There's number one. D I V E Y. Dave's number one.

9 (5m 59s):
I remember when I get out of your cabinets, please immediately and head over to get some <inaudible> right now I'm wearing Potter fall. Like <inaudible>,

2 (6m 19s):
That's an extra David lunch. One day in the mess hall. Everybody at camp beats together, and it is constant singing. The girls have their own traditional songs. The boys have theirs. Most of the cabins have songs of their own. After the oldest girls, Kevin sings their cheer, which by tradition has chanted so quickly that none of the boys and none of the younger girls can figure out what the words are. The oldest boys cabin, the Mohawks stands to respond. Dave turns to me,

7 (6m 52s):
I made that up.

2 (6m 53s):
What do the words?

7 (6m 56s):
Well, it's a radio version of the original high it's called the Mohawk song and it goes Mohawk. Once Mohawk, twice, wholly jumping, golly, gee, Cheez whiz. We're the best that ever lived. And it's a clean version. There's a, there's a dirty version with swear words in it. And we started singing at lunch. We kept on getting in trouble. I said, well, we gotta make a clean. We gotta make a clean one radio at it. And it just popped into my head. And it's, it's kind of cool hearing that. Like I started all these things and

2 (7m 22s):
Like, what else?

7 (7m 23s):
Well, when, when somebody has a birthday, you, we sing happy birthday to him. And this is kind of dumb, but I got a kick out of it. We go happy birthday to you. And I last year I went woo. And now everybody does it. And that's, it's just kind of cool. He makes stuff up and

2 (7m 39s):
Survive. David's a force. David is the one who people turn to David is the man. At least when it comes to some things, the night of the last camp, dance, David wanders, the grounds, keeping his eye out for the 13 year old boys in his cabin. He spots two of them sitting with two girls. And he says to me,

7 (7m 56s):
You got four 13 year olds just chilling in circle,

2 (7m 60s):
Sitting on the

7 (8m 0s):
Ground, sitting on the ground. And Dan is with Amanda. And he's gonna try and kiss her tonight.

2 (8m 6s):
No. Has he ever kissed a

7 (8m 7s):
Girl? That's asked when I say, have you ever kissed a girl? He said, well, not, not French, but he said, dude, you got the, the God of the dirt. Can you, you know, can you do it if you need some pumping up? He's like, no, I got it.

2 (8m 17s):
So which one is Amanda?

7 (8m 18s):
Amanda is the one with the hair braid.

2 (8m 22s):
They're the beads Dean is just sitting there kind of clever, but he's not really synchronized.

7 (8m 27s):
He's a quiet kid. He started, I mean, he doesn't really say anything unless he has something to say. So, Hey buddy, he's a cool kid.

2 (8m 37s):
He's anything he's doing

7 (8m 38s):
In the cabin? Or like in general? No.

2 (8m 40s):
How do you think he's doing over there right now?

7 (8m 43s):
I think he's doing good. She's really into him in that, in that hair, a hair. I think she's got two or three beats has a heart. D Amanda loves Stan. So, and I talked to her, you know? Cause I'm like, so how's Dan. Oh, he's fine. He liked him. Yeah. You know, so I think he's doing good.

2 (9m 1s):
One of the things he most likes about camp David tells me is the constant ongoing drama. It is a soap opera. And David is one of the people who's always making up skits and songs based on the hundred inside jokes that are at the heart of any camp. Humor noted that night after the dance, all of David's 13 year olds are back in the Cheyenne cabin, getting ready for bed. And David gets a report from each one.

7 (9m 23s):
Keith, what are you smiling about? And Dan nothing.

11 (9m 36s):
Well, me and we're just sitting there the whole night. We were just talking the whole night and then about really nothing. And then just after, after we, I didn't get anywhere. I just hugged her at the end. I didn't really get anywhere.

7 (10m 2s):
If you would try to think you could have.

11 (10m 4s):
Yeah, I would have, but no, it was her fault because she didn't, well, I could've made a move I guess, but she didn't, it's her fault. She,

7 (10m 14s):
She's not going to make a move.

12 (10m 17s):
I think she likes you gotta go for it.

2 (10m 20s):
She's got that thing in her hair. One of the kids says they all resolved the damn we'll get another chance. David's got his back. David will see the things go okay. For him.

13 (10m 36s):
It may said stupid, a shade. Like I'm just jealous of his silver clad. He looks real good. He drinks, diet Coke. <inaudible> I wish I was <inaudible> I wish, I, I wish I wish

2 (11m 3s):
That number two fear. Sure. Kids today. So sophisticated. They have game systems and a million different game apps. It is encouraging them to realize that if you get them living in the woods a few weeks, they can be entertained by some of the most stupidly primitive forms of entertainment available. Since the Dawn of civilization, I'm talking about scary stories. Every camp has got them. This is so true. You do not even need me to tell this to you. 12 year olds know this,

12 (11m 33s):
Like I, you know how every camp has a little ghost story. We have a story of turtle, man,

11 (11m 39s):
The turtle man story. All right. I'll tell it

12 (11m 43s):
Long you help me out. If I do it a long, long time ago, there was this counselor who's really mean to all of his campers and everything.

11 (11m 51s):
I can't remember how many years ago it was supposedly there was a saw a counselor and he was a dishonorably discharged from the military. And he was real real mean to all the campers. He always took the food and stuff and like stole their clothes and stuff like that.

12 (12m 6s):
He would like beat them and everything in his campus are so afraid of them. And he said, if you tell anybody, he said, if you tell anyone about me, then I'll kill you. And he, and they would read their letters. So you couldn't write home and tell about it.

11 (12m 19s):
And like one year these campers had AI, Footlocker filled with fireworks and he found them and he took them from him.

12 (12m 27s):
And so on the 4th of July, the guys were like, oh, well he's so mean. We should like try and kill him ourselves. We're not really this vicious here. But so they put like fireworks under his bed. And once he had fallen asleep, they all went up there and they liked him. He was smoking. He was smoking a cigarette.

11 (12m 43s):
And then I guess they could smoke in the cams. Cause it was, I mean, it was many, many years ago there weren't I guess there wasn't a law. And he took him in. He picked off fireworks underneath his bed and he fell asleep.

12 (12m 56s):
Well, a cigarette bar in his hand and into the Footlocker, the fireworks got lit and he exploded. He ran into the lake. He ran into the lake. I'm fired.

11 (13m 4s):
Supposedly he's still alive.

12 (13m 7s):
Every 4th of July, he comes back and he takes revenge on a camper and pulls him into the lake. Every 4th of July. He comes out of the lake and take someone in for his next victim. But what really happens on the 4th of July is either a counselor or one of the Mohawks without asking anyone goes into the lake and comes out and scares the heck out of everyone. Yeah. They some really believe it. So it's cool.

2 (13m 34s):
The older kids are funny and how they handle the ghost stories with the little kids. When producer Julie Snyder was interviewing a group of girls about turtle man, during arts and crafts. One day there was this moment. Twelve-year-olds Rebecca stern and Sarah Turkish shirt were talking about how they used to believe in tournament a few years ago when they were little, when suddenly some of the younger girls sitting around Jenny Mayer and Nicole Horn piped up asking, well, is it true? And then the older girls unsure of what to say in the course of 17 seconds, take every possible position on the issue. Here's the tape.

12 (14m 6s):
And then you tell all the little kids, but you're kind of cautious. No, it's true. It is true. There's always a legend of care. Isn't that true? It's nice to know. You'll find out

2 (14m 28s):
The ten-year-old seemed to sit on the cusp of belief and disbelief when it comes to stories like this, for them talking about these stories is just part of the process of trying to puzzle out. How does the world exactly work when you're 10, remember people are constantly telling you scary stories. And the thing is a lot of those stories are true. So you're still figuring out where is the line between fiction and nonfiction? One Saturday night, Aaron Eschler had all of his fellow ten-year-olds in the Sioux cabin, completely worked up by telling them the story of Candyman Candyman. If you know this story appears and kills you. If you say his name 10 times, Aaron said that a friend of his had died this way.

12 (15m 8s):
He said his friend died from Kenny man. He was crying last night because we can't even get as close to killing myself. Cause it was so scary. And that like freaked me out like hysterically. I'm like to leave the bathroom light on last night. Cause I keep on saying the bathroom light on man. I'm so scared. Like you're gonna come in and do

13 (15m 29s):
The whole

12 (15m 29s):
Night because you're so

13 (15m 31s):
Scared. Bathroom light.

2 (15m 33s):
What could be more fun than getting scared like that? Nearly all of them had trouble sleeping so much trouble that they were not allowed to tell any scary stories. Sunday night lights out. So instead they tried something else and experiment. I joined them after dark after evening activity, right before lights out in their cabin.

12 (15m 60s):
I'm Alex and we're here to do a little sanse over bloody Mary. We're going to go into the bathroom. I think our whole cabinet is going to, because this is going to be a great time. What you're going to probably see is a bloody Fisk. When you say bloody Mary 40 times, you'll see the bloody face of bloody Mary

2 (16m 20s):
In the mirror.

12 (16m 21s):
Yes. Fraser the blood a very ugly. It's going to be scary.

2 (16m 26s):
I squeezed into the tiny bathroom with 12 ten-year-old boys. Some of the boys hold their arms as if the cradling a baby,

12 (16m 34s):
A baby in your hands. And you say bloody Mary, 50 times, you will have actually a dead baby in your

2 (16m 41s):
Hands. Why a baby

12 (16m 44s):
Boy Mary's baby. They say she filled up and she didn't catch it to him fell.

2 (16m 50s):
That's a story.

13 (16m 52s):
It's called

12 (16m 52s):
Blue baby. It's called boobie.

13 (16m 56s):
Not blue baby. It's time to do bloody Mary bloody, Mary bloody, Mary bloody, Mary bloody Mary,

2 (17m 12s):
The 10 and a couple of years, there'll be cynics in the bunch and they'll all be competing to prove the too cool to believe and stuff like that. But for now we all watched the mirror,

13 (17m 24s):
Mary bloody Mary's doc crap. How many times did you do? Like 40 times.

2 (17m 32s):
They're so ready to believe that when the face doesn't appear in the mirror, their first explanation is that maybe you need to chant 50 times, not 40. And then,

13 (17m 43s):
And my hands

12 (17m 46s):
With the baby in my hand, supposed to go like this.

2 (17m 49s):
So did it work?

12 (17m 51s):
Yeah, it worked in a different way than we expected it to. But you felt baby blue pants

2 (18m 5s):
It took a while after that, for them to settle into their beds. When I left half an hour later, it did not seem like anybody was going to be fine very quickly. Notes on camp three. You, well, a few weeks ago we invited your stories about camp and you responded so many of you with so many great camp stories. Here is a selection.

14 (18m 31s):
When I was five, my parents got divorced and my father remarried the day after. In fact, he eloped to South Dakota because in Minnesota you had to wait six months between your divorce and remarriage. And then when I was eight, my mom died and we were adopted by, you know, a nice young couple, my sister and brother and I, and I remember one year we went to like a weekend long weekend type of religious camp that was sponsored through our church, but it had counselors there from a lot of different churches. And there was this one guy there that looked just like my dad and I must've been, I don't know, nine and a half 10. I was convinced that that was my father and that he had realized Eric his ways.

14 (19m 15s):
And I had imagined that there must be some prohibition on him contacting the kids after he put him up for adoption. And I just thought this was his way of checking on us. And I would say things like leading statements. Like, do you remember when I was little and you fix my Dolly peaches? Well, of course he just looked at me like I was not. I mean, he must have thought what an odd little girl, but I was sure. And I told my sister, you know, Tracy, isn't that dad? And she said, no, of course not. But I was sure, you know, somehow it made me feel better as strange as that themes for that long weekend. That was my dad. My mother immigrated to the United States from Germany in the fifties and her understanding of American culture and traditions.

14 (19m 56s):
Wasn't always quite clear. And one of her, one of her confusions was about summer camp. She knew that kids should go to summer camp, but she didn't realize that it usually involved 24 hour adult supervision. So one week she drove us up to a campground on the coast of Malibu and set us up in this tent and left us some groceries. And then she drove home to go back to work. And so I was left in charge of my brothers and I was 12 and my brothers were 10 and seven. And we were at summer camp. We played in the ocean. We played in the little stream that ran by our camp site.

14 (20m 39s):
We picked things and try to figure out whether they were edible. And the only problem that we had really was we had to keep it a secret that our parents weren't there and this involved lots of stealth and subterfuge, we would notice that campers were looking over in our direction at some point and kind of wondering where our parents were. So in the morning when we got ready to go to the beach, I would unzip the tent and yell into the tent. Bye mom, bye dad. We're going to the beach. See you later and hope that we'd be overheard doing this. And my brothers kind of picked up on this.

14 (21m 20s):
So one of them, when he would see a man in the car driving out of the campground, he would, if he was alone, he would yell after him. Bye dad, don't forget the popsicles. As if the guy in the car we're going to get us some groceries. We were pretty obsessed with groceries. And then a week later, my mom came back, we'd called her and told her how much we hate the summer camp. And she thought that we were extremely spoiled because we didn't appreciate this great outdoor experience. That was obviously a big part of American life. The first year I went, I was 10 years old and that was a kind of a fluke because my parents were very committed left-wingers and they wouldn't let me join the girl Scouts because my mother called them a bunch of little brown shirts.

14 (22m 9s):
And they wouldn't let me go to a fashionable summer camp because they didn't believe in fashion. So my father asked her friend where his kids went and his kids went to this very left wing Zionist camp. And so they got me in, but we had one day at lunchtime, a rock came through the window of the dining hall and it landed in my soup. And there was a note wrapped around the rock and it said, we don't want no two camps in Wisconsin. And so of course being a highly political group of people, they got together and they had discussions and they went on and on and they posted guards.

14 (22m 50s):
We had to pay their faces blacks. So we wouldn't show up at night and so on. And so a bunch of us were sitting in the dining hall and somebody said, look out on the lawn. And there was this large cross burning out on the lawn of the campgrounds. And these people came in and they were all wearing white sheets. And they had these white things over their heads like pillowcases. And they made us all go outside. And there was another guy in a white sheet and a white pillowcase riding up and down on a horse. And they started to yell at us that they wanted the lousy twos out of Wisconsin and that they didn't want to know two camps in Wisconsin.

14 (23m 31s):
And they said, don't bother trying to call the authorities because in this neck of the woods, we are the authorities and everybody was just petrified. And we all stood around shaking in our boots. And all of a, one of the counselors said, I'm an American citizen. You can't treat me like this. So two of the guys in sheets grabbed him by the arms and marched him away. And another counselor said, I'm an American citizen. You can't treat us like this. And pretty soon all the counselors were being marched away. And we were all left there and I got really frightened. So I went, I'm an American citizen too.

14 (24m 11s):
And somebody came over in a white sheet and took me down towards the beach. And as he was marching me down to the beach, he said to me, Edina, couldn't you have kept your big mouth shut. And it was all a political lesson that we were supposed to be learning.

2 (24m 33s):
Thanks to everybody who called thanks to everybody who wrote no number four, which was down by the lake. Some of the Brinmar girls explained it all to me every year. It's the same, the same songs, same ceremonies, there's circle and Olympic days. There's color days. There's Mohawk privileges and cabin nights. And here's the dance where the girls choose a boy who they'll marry for one day. And there's the powwow

12 (25m 1s):
Last year for a session. They took power away from us because it was like politically incorrect or something. And we were all really upset because power. I was like one of our biggest camp traditions. Cause we have like a little song or whatever in the beginning. And it's just now And you do like different hand motions and everything to it. And it's really fun. And then you like challenge other teams. It's fun. But then second year,

2 (25m 38s):
Can I just say that it's really interesting that you can't even tell the story with that suddenly bursting into song.

12 (25m 44s):
Our camp sings a lot,

2 (25m 46s):
As you may know, or some of the most important cultural events for native American tribes all over the country each year, this one really thinks about it. Like talent competition, one girl, her talent. She crosses her eyes

12 (25m 60s):
And like Jolie can like snap her belly button. I can think out of the vows and twinkle, twinkle little star, and you just do weird talent. You just do weird talents and you challenge other teams at the end. If your team's the best you get a piece of feather.

15 (26m 15s):
The reason that got taken away last year was because a lot of the counselors felt that it was politically incorrect because

2 (26m 21s):
Indianness has been a part of camping in America since organized camping began a century ago. One of the co-founders of the boy Scouts of America ran a camp in 1901. In which you organized boys into a make belief tribe called the Seanna ways. The Redman is the apostle of outdoor life. He wrote back then his example in preceptor, what young American needs today above any other ethical teaching Indianness and a real connection to nature and appreciation for all that was being lost with industrialization and urbanization. Just one generation after Custer's last stand fake Indianness was an integral part of the early boy Scouts and girl Scouts organizations in this country by 1910 camps with names like camp men, a Wawa can't Miramichi can't Pocono kit, which bringing up everywhere from middle-class and upper-class children.

2 (27m 8s):
It is still a big part of camping all across America. And after a year without powwow camp lake of the woods brought the Powell back. The ratio is a rebound. The first broadcast this episode back in 1998, and in the years, since then camp lake of the woods permanently dropped most of the native American stuff. That was part of the camp traditions, powwow. There aren't totem poles or TPS at the camp anymore. One thing they did keep where the bunk names, the bugs are still named after native American tribes. These days when people running the camp told me the campers in each cabin are told the history of the tribe, that the cabins name for the ideas to honor the tribes, whether I guess the drivers want to be honored that way or not a historian.

2 (27m 57s):
Phillip Doria read this book, playing Indian that does a story of non native people in America, dressing up as an idealizing native tribes in various ways, bring all the way back to the Boston tea party, where some of the protesters dressed as Mohawk, Indians. He points out that by the 20th century, when these kinds of camps were founded, what non-indigenous Americans generally did was romanticized vision of native people in the past while simultaneously completely ignoring the actual living native Americans among them, who they are, what their lives are like. Now, today, there's still a lot of fake native Americans and camps across America. Non-indigenous children. They're being sorted into fake tribes right now, probably for the same reasons the campers told us.

2 (28m 40s):
They'd like this kind of thing back in the nineties.

4 (28m 43s):
I think it's a really important part of camp.

15 (28m 45s):
I mean, I personally, like I liked the traditions, like, cause it's like, you know, what's, you know, what's going to happen and you, you can like trust things like that. It's like, yeah,

6 (28m 55s):
I come back like for the traditions, like, like I expect everything to be here, like the way it was last year. Cause that's the reason I come back. Like if everything changed, I don't think I would like it anymore.

2 (29m 15s):
Well, coming up war, what is it good for answers. Also the second mention of the Israeli army in one radio show, that's in a minute when our program continues,

16 (29m 27s):
When I was growing up in Haiti with my family, we didn't have a lot. And when we moved to America, we were always relocating as an adult. I realized that stability was the most important thing to me in order for me to thrive after giving many to my job, I am financially set up to focus on what makes me happy.

The New York Times (29m 46s):
USBank supports each step on the journey to thrive, to learn how the bank can help you celebrate wins both big and small visit www.nytimes.com/usbank Thrivers

CarMax (30m 1s):
Support for this American life comes from CarMax. Re-imagining new ways to buy your car. Shopping for a car has never been more flexible head to carmax.com and check out current inventory and view cars in 360 degrees. And because CarMax gives you a money back guarantee for up to 30 days or 1500 miles, you can buy online or on the lot with confidence, see carmax.com for details. It's car buying re-imagined

First Person on Apple Podcasts (30m 29s):
I'm Lulu Garcia, Navarro the host of first person, a show from New York times opinion. When we hear the word opinion, we often think of hot, takes a point of view in reaction to the news. But what about the experiences that shape people's opinions? And we're like, yeah, we should unionize. And it's like, yeah, I'm pretty sure that's actually a felony. That's a, the heart of the story in a lot of ways. How did I find myself pregnant? First person, listen, wherever you get your podcasts.

2 (31m 0s):
It's this American life from our glass each week in our program, of course we choose a theme, bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program notes on camp, summer camp today's program is first broadcast years ago, but so much about camp has not changed at all. For instance, a lot of the pleasure of being in camp is the pleasure of being part of a group. This team that lives together, does everything together that you feel loyal to when it's 15 years old, Adam Davidson definitely got that feeling at the camp. He went to he's half Israeli, but grew up in America. And that year he went to a camp run by the Israeli army in Israel on their own training facilities.

2 (31m 41s):
The camera's ran the same drills as the real soldiers. They shot M sixteens slept in the same tense. Part of the idea of this camp was to convince young Jews from around the world to move to Israel and serve in the army. Once they were there, like most Israelis do and Adam loved it just offered it. Years later as an adult, he would go on tour in Arabic and live in middle east and took on a much more complicated view of Israel and what its army does.

22 (32m 10s):
But that summer, it was just black and white. Like the Israeli army is this amazing force of heroes for good.

2 (32m 20s):
Nobody seemed like they could be cooler to them at the time and a soldier in an elite Israeli army unit. And he got to be there with them, train with them.

22 (32m 29s):
It's so exciting. I loved the fact that we would go to the bathroom and the toilets wouldn't have a seat because that's a place where a terrorist could put a bomb and it just felt so Joe crouching on top of the seat and showering and these freezing cold water, because what a say that mud car would need hot water. What now for me, for the first few weeks, what was tough about this was that I was really a nobody there and I'd always be bringing up the rear. I'd always be kind of slow. And I wasn't showing myself to be macho.

22 (33m 9s):
Even though there were so many opportunities in a given day to prove yourself macho. I mean, we were always for no apparent reason, running like crazy from one tree to another tree or up some mountain, every few minutes or something, you could be the best. And I was never the best, but all of this changed, my geek status was completely transformed. One night, the different units would put on plays and we were supposed to do takeoffs of fairytales.

22 (33m 59s):
And this was some kind of a competition there was voting over who did the best job. So my group who at burdock, our fairy tale was Steve white and the seven dwarves. And I would be Steve white, this fabulous gay man who lives with these seven tours and the prince who comes to rescue me, it would be Rambo This was one of those moments where I just knew that I was, I was in the zone. I was in my element. I mean, I was from Greenwich village. I had been an actor all through my childhood. My dad was an actor, but more than that, there's a way that Americans can be very free.

22 (34m 48s):
That Israelis can't be Precisely because they have to be macho. And no matter what they're doing, even if they're mocking themselves, they have to maintain that deadliness. And I had no obligations in that area. I dress myself just, you know, I tried not to be too outrageous, but I had to be kind of outrageous for them to get it. So, you know, a little bit of Rouge, a little bit of eyeliner, my hair kind of slicked back with moose and you know, sort of ridiculously short shorts. And so I'm lying there and I hear a knock on the door and I just stand up and I remember the entire crowd is howling, just howling.

22 (35m 38s):
And I just do this big campy gay voice, who is it? And my friend, who's a skinhead from Toronto whose parents happened to be Israeli. He says, it's Rambo. And I say, oh, Rambo, you sexy beast. And everyone is freaking out. They're laughing hands on faces. You know, just the crowd is fully with me. And I start making jokes about people in the camp and which of our commanding officers are hot and everything. I said, the whole crowd is just right there, laughing and laughing.

22 (36m 26s):
What happens to snow white to Steve? Right? I eat the apple. I pass out and I need to be resuscitated. So Rambo comes to kiss me. And what we'd worked out is he put his hand in front of his mouth and I put my hand in front of my mouth and we just, you know, touched hands and we're kissing our mouth. But from a distance, it looks like we're making out. And I mean, at this point, the camp is like, they're standing up there. How humbling? I mean, I've transgressed every boundary that the Israeli man sets for himself and, and they are loving the other side.

22 (37m 11s):
And from that point on, I was no longer the unknown American bringing up the rear of the obstacle course. I was like a movie star. I mean, everyone, the Israeli guys, particularly like the macho, his toughest Israeli guys constantly wanted to do this make-out thing where we put our hands over our mounds and make out, you know, we'd be like relaxing after some really long hike in the negative desert or something. And, you know, met you or shut Uhler, whatever would come up to me and say, it's very funny, the way you do this make-out thing, show me do it.

22 (37m 51s):
Let's do it. And the first few times I would do it. I mean, I guess part of me was like flattered that like the macho future, Matt, Kyle guys were into me in any way. But after a while, it was just so weird. I just be like, look shell a little bit. I'm just not going to do that. I don't do that anymore. I'm just not going to do it. And they'd be like, why not do it? It's very funny. That's all. It's not for anything. But just the funny, That's real important to me to mention, I completely grew up in a gay world. I grew up in Greenwich village, 1970s, 1980s. Stonewall was just down the block. The gay pride parade was all around us.

22 (38m 32s):
I would guess around half the grownups I knew as kid were gay. And I don't look back on those guys and think they reacted this way because they were homophobic. I think it was something else. It was like a freedom, like a playfulness. Like it was really exciting to break out of this like masculine requirement. You know, they're like stuck in this box and I'm out in the field, dancing in the rain or something. And they're like, holy crap. I get to dance in the rain too. That's really funny. That's exciting.

2 (39m 10s):
Adam Davidson, he's been a frequent contributor to our show. Other, we joined the Israeli army back when he was 15. He never worked out No on camp. Number six of our days, it is impossible to overstate. What a big deal color days is at the camp in Michigan, Julie Snyder. And I visited it is like any color words at any camp, except that it's three days. And once you're assigned a team, a blue team or white team for girls, black or red for boys, you will stay on that team all your years at camp, there are legacies. Your brothers and sisters will be on the same team. As you are being named a captain of the color days. Teams is considered such a big deal that many older campers can name all the captains of all the color day teams going back years, two girls and two boys are named as captain each year for each team.

2 (39m 57s):
Only campers from the oldest bunks can be captain Bryn, Maurice for girls Mohawks and Blackhawks for boys counselors who were once named as captains. If you talk to them about it, they get all choked up. When they tell you about the moment they were chosen, even Dana harden, the 29 year old owner of the camp went to this long explanation of the ceremony with me at one point, her voice cracking ending with

23 (40m 17s):
I'm almost in tears right now because I mean, it was the biggest honor in my life.

2 (40m 23s):
Julie Snyder watch the girls cover days this year,

24 (40m 26s):
Just to give you a sense of the intensity of color days a month before it all begins. An 11 year old blue team member tells me color days, isn't all that competitive. I mean, she talked to a girl on the white team and everything. And all I could think was, if you have to say something like that, you know, there's going to be trouble. The speculation about who will get the honor of being captain of the color days team. The biggest honor at camp is so intense that weeks before color days begins. Lindsay say what's in some friends in Bryn Mawr, east decided to consult Lindsey's Weegee board.

12 (40m 56s):
Is that even here? Hello? Who is this? B L a I R Blair old friend. We talked to her. Hey, can you, do you know who the card is? Cabins are for girls. Could you name one of them? Okay. A O I S S a Alyssa. Well, just job. She'll get it. I bet

24 (41m 26s):
Everyone thinks Alyssa is a shoe-in and the Weegee board also picked Jamie stream. Another favorite. And Lindsay say a wits who coincidentally had her hands on the Weegee pointer at the time, two weeks later in the middle of the night, all the girls counselors snake through the cabin area with lit kerosene torches and wake up the girls for the opening ceremonies of color days, 1998,

12 (41m 54s):
Everybody up out of bed,

24 (42m 1s):
Little girls stumble out onto the sidewalks, rubbing their eyes, wearing mismatched shoes and looking confused across the way the Bryn Mawr girls have never even gone to sleep anticipating this moment. When they find out which one of them will be named color days, Camden, they stand with their faces, pressed up to the screen door of their cabin, holding hands and silently crying counselors with torches lead 120 girls. They marched down to the lakefront and surrounded enormous bonfire, 10 feet high. It looks like some cross between a debutante ball and a Klan rally.

12 (42m 33s):
We are here tonight to usher and our three days of competition known as color days, I call forth the first spirit. Do you hear me a spirit come forth and tell us who you are and why you are here.

24 (42m 50s):
Like a summer stock Grecian play. One of the counselors dressed in a white Toga, comes out of the forest and stands behind the fire.

12 (42m 57s):
I am the spirit of the white. I represent the clouds of a summer's day, white cabs in the water and the dove of peace and security. What is the message you bring oh, white spirit. It is a difficult thought to convey, but, and meaning in every way, one can't find peace in a world of dream. Each person is a fraction, a part of the team. We have no choice. Everyone must belong. If known as we can, the team be strong, I called forth the next spirit. Do you hear me a spirit,

24 (43m 31s):
The spirit for the blue team, another counselor, and a Toga appears before the fire and talks about blue and blueness candles are lit. And the girl's about to abide by the camp. Seven virtues during color days, those virtues friendship, determination, sportsmanship, tolerance, enthusiasm, patience, and unity.

25 (43m 51s):
In order that you may have time to consider carefully the meaning of these next few days, we ask that you now take a vow of silent.

12 (43m 59s):
Please repeat after me. I will be silent.

24 (44m 4s):
Finally, the camp director, Dana picks up four whistles, two on a white string and two on blue. This is the moment everyone's been waiting for and guessing about the moment Dana remembers so well from 16 years ago, when she was a Bryn Mawr, she walks behind all the girls to the last row where the Bryn Mawr sit and silently places. The necklaces over the heads of the girls selected to be the captains of color. Day's 1998. The chosen girls stand up sob and cling to each other.

24 (44m 46s):
The other girls stay seated, sobbing, cling to each other. It turns out that Weegee board was only right about one of the captains, Lindsay Sagan, Reich, Alissa, and Jamie look shocked and heartbroken. There's so much crying. Some of the girls can barely walk straight as they stumbled back to their cabins. After the ceremony, because of the vow of silence, there are lots of sniffles gas and blowing noses color days hasn't even started yet.

12 (45m 19s):
Okay. For those you don't know yet. I'm Jamie. I'm Lindsay. I'm Beth. We have an awesome

24 (45m 28s):
It's the next morning. And the white team has gathered for their first team meeting. The veteran campers are dressed entirely in white, white shoes, shirts, socks, bandanas. Their faces are painted white. Their hair is painted white Lindsay and Jamie, the white team captains are in charge of organizing all the girls, raising their spirits and motivating the team. But it's difficult to hold your first pep rally within the confines of a vow of silence. Under the vow only team captains are allowed to talk.

12 (45m 55s):
Okay? You guys excited, just nod your head like that.

24 (46m 2s):
After the flag raising on the first morning, the vow of silence is lifted. And then you realize why it was instituted in the first place. What follows are three days of solid wall of sound screaming. The girls cheer at the individual and team competitions. They cheer while standing around and waiting for their events to begin. They cheer on the way to the mess hall. They cheer outside the mess hall and they cheer on the way back from the mess hall. They have constant team meetings where they talk about the importance of chair.

12 (46m 29s):
You guys cheering tonight is the most important that to share. That's why I cheer so loud. You guys, it's not normal. If you don't lose your license, this is really important. You guys really important tying your basketball and thing right now,

8 (46m 45s):
You run your butt over here, like as fast as you can, because it is so important that you guys don't miss any of our meetings.

24 (47m 1s):
But some of the girls, the older girls are having a hard time cheering.

12 (47m 6s):
Like it is really hard to get in on it because I'm telling people to be louder because I know they're not being loud enough, but yet I can't do it myself.

24 (47m 14s):
Lexi's on the white team. She's a Bryn Mawr was eligible to be a color days, captain and spent the last night crying because of being chosen for color days. Captain means you're a leader, an intelligent and caring person who looks out for other people. What does it mean if you're not chosen? I didn't

12 (47m 30s):
Expect it, but I really, really want him captain. And I mean, it is a disappointment because I was out. It's something that you're eligible for. And if you don't get it, then you think about, or at least I think about what I did to not do it and what I did wrong and how I'm not as decent as a person, as other people. And it's just, I mean, it's a let down, but it's not everything. And that's like, what? A lot of people lose grip up. That's what I always those grip of is that it's not everything as much as it means, but it means a lot.

24 (48m 16s):
Over the next two days, it's basically what you'd expect. And all camp competition would be like the younger girls and older girls split off. They do track and field events, swimming and boating events, scavenger hunts, and an all camp song Fest. Both teams seem pretty evenly matched. And for the most part, the girls win and lose with grace. Most of the girls, I talk with all say color days as their favorite part of camp, they like the cheering. They like the games. They like feeling a part of a team. But one night after an intense capture, the flag game where blue team pulls it off by 1.1 of the white team girls doesn't take the loss too. Well,

12 (48m 56s):
Why things? I talk to you for a second. The blue team is pine, very dirty and none of us should point like that at all. That was like, they knew I was already over yet. They still felt that they needed to trip me. So, but just don't complain about it. I'm just going to kill them. I say, we get them back right now by screaming so loud that they were at their ear because that is how upset I didn't run out.

24 (49m 31s):
The climax of color days is on the last night of camp, the obstacle course relay where every member of each team takes part. Usually whoever wins, the relay wins the color days. The blue team gathers at their meeting spot on the go-kart track to organize all of the team members for the race. Certain things are clear. Alyssa Strom does the longest run. Carly seagull always does the math problem. Rebecca stern rules, the pirating contest, but there's some open spots which require careful consideration.

12 (50m 1s):
Okay? You guys quiet? Okay. This is really important. You guys really important. First person is at the flag pole and they have to eat one peanut butter and jelly sandwich as fast as they can. And it seemed, she was like the words like so fast. You guys, you are up against Lexie Gorge. She is the fastest eater I've ever seen. Yeah. She can shove it in her mouth. It's crazy. And so you have these guys who couldn't eat really fast. Jamie might try that <inaudible> tonight, but it's pizza night

24 (50m 43s):
After dinner, the captains and the two peanut butter and jelly sandwich leaders gathered the flagpole to begin the race that will last over an hour

12 (50m 50s):
On your mark, how much it takes to keep up with

24 (51m 12s):
The relay. Race goes all over camp. One camper has to wait for the runner, with the Baton, the jump in the shower, wash her hair, get out and passes the Baton to the next runner who goes to the waterfront where a little girl will do 25 jumping jacks with a life jacket on who then passes the Baton to another girl who goes all the way back to the other side of camp, to a cabin where a camper and makes and makes a bed all along the way. The girls are yelling for their teams jumping up and down and trying to control their nerves.

12 (51m 39s):
Oh, I am so scared right out. Like I am like, I'm like here, but I'm not. I'm like somewhere else, go blue.

24 (51m 51s):
As an outsider, watching three days of all of this, I have to say what was shocking was how gung ho everyone was camp is this unusually safe bubble where kids can let themselves go crying and screaming and singing. They all buy into this. None of them stands back. Nobody thinks they're too cool for it. Back at school, the rules are completely different everywhere. The rules are completely different. Down at the waterfront. The white and blue team stands side by side with dueling cheering, waiting for the final leg of the relay race.

24 (52m 31s):
When the last Baton is passed, the two captains from each team have to build a fire under a rope. That's suspended between two sticks, about three feet off the ground. The first team whose rope catches fire and burns all the way through wins the race. Some brim, our girls have been saving wood for the burn, the ropes. Since the second day of camp tonight, the blue team has about a full two minutes on the white, as a runner, hands off the Baton, the blue team, captains, Carly and Dana dropped to their knees and began with the kin line. They get only one match a minute as they add twigs and sassafras to the fire. So you and the white team starts on their fire.

24 (53m 11s):
The captain's hands are shaking. Both teams are jumping up and down, cheering and hugging the first pile of sticks to become like a real fires, the white teams, and the moment it catches tears start streaming down, Carlene Damos cheeks on the blue team, both look close to hyperventilating. As they lie down on the dirt, their cheeks on the ground, blowing on their fire, crying and frantically moving sticks around. But the white team's fire rises. Their rope starts burning. And once it snaps, the race is pretty much over. The girls are jumping up and down collapsing into each other's arms sobbing and laughing.

24 (53m 55s):
The younger girls. It's almost as if their little bodies can't take all this emotion. I watched one girl about eight years old, who stands off to the side, begins to tremble and her face gets redder and redder. As tears pour down her cheeks, a teammate tries to comfort her. It's okay. She says we won. It might seem strange standing in the middle of a hundred crying girls that most of them will tell you, this is the best day of camp, but it's the best day of camp precisely because it's a hundred girls all crying together. If the point of camp is to feel this comradery, to feel like you belong to something, that feeling is at its most concentrated during color days.

24 (54m 40s):
This is also the last day of camp.

12 (54m 42s):
It's strange. It's this whole thing. There's so many things to deal with, you know, and then it's just all jumbled in at once. And it's confusing. I don't know.

24 (54m 55s):
I talked to Jamie stream and lexicon words. Jamie's been here for seven years and can't come back as a camper. Again. Lexie starts high school this year. And for her, this isn't just the last day of camp, her last day, living in the safe little bubble in a way. It's her last day of childhood.

12 (55m 12s):
Aye, aye. One camp somewhere has never meant so much to me now that we're getting older. And like, it's just, I'm so frightened of going into high school that like, I, I don't want to leave here anyway, but I'm so secure here. It's such like a Haven for me that I, I can't imagine going home. Like also, I think it's hard. Maybe not for you, but for me, it's like, since this is my, this is my last year. These are my last, like three days of ever being a camper. And it's like, it's so weird. It's like, this is my last Tuesday at camp. This is my last dinner with my cabin.

12 (55m 53s):
This is my last time ever being in a cabin with my friends. And it's, it's like, that's, what's so weird about it. Cause you're just thinking about the last, this last day. Like I, I'm kind of scared to go home in a way, because like my friends at home are so different from my friends here and it's going to be scary. So doll that like the people I like, I don't mean that as in like, I mean, I love my friends to death, but when you think of the things that we go through here, we're not really living at home.

12 (56m 36s):
We go to school and we go out and it's not their fault, but the environment is so different that it's dull living at home. I just, I'm perfectly content here with being, you know, just sitting here, getting mail. I don't really care as long as I, as you know, like it's so it's so strange. And like, I don't want to miss, like walking. Like I was just talking about Laura, Tershia by this, I'm going to miss walking down the path. I'm going to miss the doors slamming. I'm going to miss the overflowing bathroom. It's just, it's unreal that we have to stupid little things are, is what you really most

2 (57m 41s):
What program is Peter's today by Julie Snyder and myself with the, we speak on Nancy update, senior editor for this show, Paul tough considering editors, Jack hit marquee rock and then constantly serve out, but I can help from Laura Doggett. And so you need to have import harmonica music throughout the hour today by Howard levy, thanks to the staff and campers of lake of the woods and Greenwood camps in Michigan program today was recorded there in summer of 1998. Now putting together today's rerun from Valerie kidness Sierra crane Murdoch, Mashama Barstow Nelson, Matt Tierney, and Barstow Chesky special shout out today that Emily Bernstein, who stories about summer camp years ago and the New York times were an inspiration to us. As we put together today's program our website, this American life.org.

2 (58m 22s):
You can stream any of our over 750 episodes for absolutely free videos. There's lists of favorite shows. There's tons of other stuff there again, this American life.org. This American life is distributed by PRX, public radio exchange. Thanks as always drove programs. Co-founder and Mr. <inaudible> who still after all these years, because our contributor, Adam Davidson, once a day full of hope to demand.

22 (58m 47s):
It's very funny. The way you do this, make out things, show me doing

2 (58m 50s):
I'm Eric Glass back next week with more stories of this American.

22 (58m 55s):
It's very funny. That's all. It's not for anything, but just the funny

2 (59m 6s):
Next week on the podcast, this American life, a town where they need half the registered voters to show up at a special meeting, they're going to keep funding for schools.

26 (59m 14s):
We are out chatting with people about coming to the meeting on Saturday. You're not going okay.

0 (59m 21s):
Can you tell me why this is my choice? Okay. I don't want any hard feelings in this little town

2 (59m 28s):
Democracy at work so difficult next week on the podcast or on your local public radio station.