1 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Progressive. One of the country's leading providers of auto insurance with progressives Name Your Price tool you say what kind of coverage you're looking for and how much you want to pay and Progressive will help you find options that fit within your budget use the Name Your Price tool and start an online quote at progressive.com price and coverage match limited by state law. A quick warning. There are curse words that are unbeaten today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version, you can find that at our website This American Life dot-org. Hi, everybody, Ira Glass here and put this Fourth of July weekend. We bring you one of my very favorite episodes of our program This American Life sometimes when I meet somebody who has never heard our program and I need to find an episode to recommend to them.

1 (49s):
This is the episode that I recommend as the first one they should hear and we thought it would be good for the Fourth of July because this episode is about something that seems so very American and that is going out and buying a car the old-fashioned way in a showroom. We first broadcast today's program in the fall of 2013. Hope you like it and happy holiday. Freddy is the general manager of a car dealership these days but he used to be a car salesman. And here's a good one partly because he's got what he calls the gift for the gab his go-to move and lots of situations is to finish a sentence and then laugh even when the sentence is bad news. Like here he is assessing his chances of making sales goal for the month.

1 (1m 31s):
I'll give it a 50/50 right now because it's early boy. This is him talking about a month when the car dealership did not make it sales goal and I'm strictly commission. So I make nothing. So on Friday is not laughing, you know, it's bad and made October but it did not last much at his weekly meetings for the guys who sell cars for him. All right. Good morning. All right in the beginning of the month, I went through the room and I told everybody where they had a baby. Jason you have 16 cars out. You need 10 more for the month for 26. I want to see you there. Bob lender.

1 (2m 11s):
You have six out you need nine more Scotty you're at 10 right now. You need to be at 18 last month. They didn't make their sales goal. That was September first week of school is always bad for car sales in the suburbs. They were supposed to sell 127 cars and trucks they sold 82 so they have to make October and when I say have to make This is not some sort of abstract feel-good compete with the dealership down the block just for fun kind of competition the part of Chrysler and if they sell 129 cars and trucks by the end of October Chrysler will pay them a bonus. That's pretty much the difference between the dealership being in the black or being in the red for the month somewhere between 65 and 85 thousand dollars depending on which models they sell different cars are in different amounts if they sell 128 cars fall just one car short.

1 (3m 4s):
They get nothing.

2 (3m 5s):
That's the worksheet that the Chrysler sends us to show us what money we can earn by how many cars we sell and there's a new one every month every month

1 (3m 14s):
in the middle of the month. The owner of this dealership sweet face guy named Mark braud web and Freddie show me the document with Chrysler set the rocktober sales

2 (3m 21s):
goal. Oh, no this changed with every month at their whim. That's another frustration. We have no idea what the numbers going to be and really have a computed we've had Numbers as high as 159 and we fight we go crazy. It's cockamamie. The anyone knows what that means is basically they

1 (3m 42s):
shift around the ground rules on you every month. I'll make sure this tricky is that there are four other Jeep dealerships within 10 miles of Mark and Freddie Mark says that most customers will shop price at two or three of them. So stay competitive Mark and Freddie do what pretty much everybody else does they set lower prices not hundreds of dollars off the price of the cars sometimes sell them for less than they pay Chrysler for them with the The going to hit their sales goal and get the bonus to make up the difference but there's no guarantee. We will hit this number. So the pressure is huge because we have already given away the money to the consumer using that to sell a car. So I need a big day today. I need a big day. No, bull. I really need a big day today. So with 12 days left to go in the month numbers wobbly pretty laid it on thick during his weekly meeting with the sales team.

1 (4m 28s):
You told him he sees them over the dealership security cams. You know, I look through the video I watch you guys in there. r All on you computers going to different websites chilling dude get on higher gear. This is no joke. I gotta be at that number or it's telling you it's not going to be a nice guy. So put your nose right to the ground and come out shooting today everybody. I want balloons and all the Departments. I want the radios down on put the convertible

2 (4m 59s):
tops down all over the place. I want tons of balloons in the showroom. I just don't want one balloon to a cook-off balloon the whole freakin place. So it looks like a circus make it seem like we're having a monster sale and it's a party because we gotta be at the big number by the 31st midnight period no ands ifs and buts so everybody grabs balloons grown man inflate and tie and decorate its truism in their business balloons sell cars and then nobody

1 (5m 36s):
shows up. for an hour two hours three hours four hours

2 (5m 44s):
Saturday should be one of their busiest days and it's empty Freddy. How's it going today? So far shift really bad really slow really really

1 (5m 55s):
early afternoon Freddy told one of our producers Prime read that it was way slower than usual. I don't know if you can catch this, but try to notice the song that is playing over the radio in the background as they talk. What do you think it is what's going on?

2 (6m 8s):
Not a clue what all the advertisements out there and everything else. We should be swamped. dressing dressing

1 (6m 25s):
He's a little song I

2 (6m 26s):
wrote you might want to sing it note for note Don't Worry

1 (6m 34s):
Be Happy Mark runs this dealership and Freddie who runs it but know that most people do not trust car dealers. Most people think they're ripping us off throwing on extra charges milking us for every dime and they say if you and I only knew the reality we would see that in fact, the dealer is not making a killing off of us. In fact, the Is often squeaking by with a very thin profit margin they say it is all very different from what people think and to prove their point. They let us watch a bunch of us from my radio show. We

2 (7m 7s):
recorded them as they headed towards the end of the month trying to make their goal trying to sell 129 cars which you know, you would think it would be very straightforward very businesslike

1 (7m 18s):
after all new cars and trucks. They're fifteen percent of all retail

2 (7m 22s):
sales. But if what we saw is typical what that means is that hundreds of

1 (7m 28s):
billions of dollars in economic activity and nearly two million jobs exist. Thanks only to millions of messy seat-of-the-pants deals many of which barely come together as salesman sweat out there end of the month quotas. It is way

2 (7m 43s):
more chaotic than we

1 (7m 44s):
expected and we saw some things it's true. We think will surprise a lot of car

2 (7m 49s):
buyers from WBEZ Chicago is This American Life today.

1 (7m 53s):
One car dealership tries to sell

2 (7m 56s):
129 cars we get to know the Resolute men and women who try to pull that off stay with us. So I wish I could pretend that we got interested in this subject at a radio show because we realize what an important part of the economy car sales

1 (8m 20s):
are and I wish I could pretend that we did a huge survey to find the most typical dealership out there. But in fact we got interested in this topic and this particular dealership Town & Country Jeep Chrysler Dodge Ram is what it's called in graviton, New York along I And one of our co-workers here at the radio show Robin semyon, but a used car there. Here's how it happened a friend of hers who knows all about cars told her that the only vehicle that she should even consider for her young family is the Honda Pilot and she went looking online. She saw one listed on cars.com. It was a Town and Country and she called and she had no intention at all of going to look at the car but a Salesman convinced her or you know, what you should come out today right today talked her into it, which meant an hour long ride on a train from Brooklyn with her husband and her four-year-old and then once she got there.

1 (9m 9s):
The episode ER to a newer more expensive vehicle a Jeep Liberty which he drove off the lot 24 hours later. Robin told me the story in the car in question on our first ride out to the dealership. Yeah, I mean the Honda Pilot I

2 (9m 23s):
think it is.

1 (9m 27s):
Across-the-board like less

2 (9m 29s):
problems last longer better gas

1 (9m 33s):
mileage. I know I know I

2 (9m 38s):
know. I know but I love this car

1 (9m 44s):
you got that. These people are such good salesman. Not only did she pay more not only did they put her into a Jeep which meant that since they are a Jeep dealer they could sell her a warranty which they also did for a few thousand dollars. She came out of this loving her car and loving them. How did they do this? Well, before we go any further, I think I should give you a quick primer on the basic setup and cast of characters at this dealership new cars are sold at Town & Country and we're gonna be spending most of our time with new cars today by seven men and one woman who by the way constantly make fun of each other in this raunchy way that we cannot pay you over the radio. Just know that that's happening. Plus there are two guys in the finance department and then overseeing all of them.

1 (10m 25s):
There are the general manager fredi who you already met and then

2 (10m 29s):
On the showroom

1 (10m 30s):
floor all day every day are two managers who you're gonna be hearing from a lot over the course of this hour. These are Mike Perez and thousands of odda of the to sow is the more complicated figure

2 (10m 42s):
voting with a gray goatee. He's got this vibe. That is halfway

1 (10m 45s):
between Ben Kingsley and Gandhi and other kind of Hit Man Mike from Breaking Bad was how gets up to speak at the weekly sales meetings meeting by the way is in the middle of the showroom. He Paces

2 (10m 58s):
around A red convertible as he

1 (11m 0s):
talks reminding everybody of the basic tenants of car sales customer says they're not ready to buy a car. They're all not ready to buy a car. Let's go over it again. They're in a car

2 (11m 13s):
dealership. They got in their car drove through hell to get

1 (11m 19s):
here. Look for a parking spot for 10 minutes parked got out of the car and walked into a car dealer not because the coffee is good. We went over this because the coffee here is not good.

2 (11m 31s):
They came here because we sell cars and they want to buy one.

1 (11m 36s):
Nothing's changed in a hundred years of selling cars. He tells them at one meeting the customer wants to pay as little as possible. We want to make as much as we can you

2 (11m 45s):
guys know. Job, right? We've all done it before the aggressive be aggressive ABC Bob. What's ABC always be closing always be closing. Okay, so these guys

1 (12m 1s):
managers sow and Mike sit near the front door of the

2 (12m 5s):
showroom at this elevated platform that

1 (12m 7s):
everybody calls the podium or the desk

2 (12m 10s):
and they oversee all the terms of all the deals and okay, if you've ever bought a car, maybe you've wondered what really

1 (12m 15s):
happens, you know, when the salesman leaves you and they go back and they talk to their manager. They talk to the boss. Look at what do they do? What would they do is we were told they glowed the Reps. He's ready. We tell them what to say.

2 (12m 27s):
To the customer and

1 (12m 28s):
we load their lips send it back to the customer and see where we can

2 (12m 31s):
commit. So for instance when one of the

1 (12m 34s):
salesmen wants to get a woman to bring her husband in today to test drive the car that she's chosen. They huddle at the desk a bunch of them and Freddie starts to improv

2 (12m 42s):
some lines for the salesman to say listen, if you can take this call by Monday what happens if I can I'm not sure if I can do it. I have money for the weekend that I'm giving away from Chrysler as long as your purchase. It by tomorrow and pick it up by Monday you win. He's totally making this up. There's no weekend money like this money over the weekend through Chrysler. I want to use it. I want to give it to you. Get your husband and that salesman heads off that's loading the lips. You just seen it loading your lips. But before the managers can go to their lips. They have to figure out what

1 (13m 22s):
price they're going to ask for in the terms of the deal and all that and this works differently. I think than the way that most of us imagine is happening when we buy a car. We assume that the managers and the salesman are a unified team and it's you know us versus them. But in fact managers and sales people are often at odds with each other and they spin information and they lie to each other. Here's a Peter process of very experienced salesman who at the time Time of this recording was three cars shy of the 18 that he was supposed to sell in October and what he's doing here is he's asking a couple what they want their monthly payments to be on a new car.

2 (13m 59s):
What if I can get you the same payment you right now? $1.99 for 39 months something like that. Okay here

1 (14m 10s):
that 199 a month then Peter marches over to talk to the managers at the desk and listen to the number that he tells how the customer

2 (14m 19s):
wants. She wants to be about a hundred fifty bucks a month

1 (14m 23s):
a hundred fifty nine hundred ninety-nine. Cinestyle is out of earshot Peter turns to the reporter who's trailing them. Sean

2 (14m 31s):
Cole. You see what it did now so so hard Well, you saw what she told me. He wants to be at $1.99 a month. Well, I'm telling him 150 because I got to work him too with the same kind of love something lower with him.

1 (14m 44s):
Why do this? Well later when negotiations get tough the managers. How may I ask Peter to squeeze the customers for a lower number on their trade in or maybe a higher price for the car something that might be hard to talk to customer into but Peter now has wiggle room. He knows he can push the couple up to $1.99 a month in payments because they already said yes to it. It you can make up the difference there. In fact as the deal precedes, it runs into a problem the desk the couple and the salesman cannot come to an agreement about how much the dealership should pay. The couple for their trade in Sal says it is worth One Price. The customer said that another Jeep dealer offered them a lot more than that for the trade end. But of course that may be a lie.

1 (15m 26s):
There's a saying in the business buyers are liars or it may be the other dealership is lying to the customers. Maybe the other dealership told them an unrealistically high price that they never intend to pay that happens to Everyone is playing

2 (15m 37s):
everyone. So at the desk tells a Peter salesman that

1 (15m 42s):
the customer cannot be getting that trade in price from the competitor. It can't be true

2 (15m 47s):
Stop Believing with the customers telling that car does 16-5 at the auction. There's no way they're paying him 20 grand on a car that they could sell at auction for 16 bucks. Then I guess he's a better negotiator than just a better lie on your mind. That's the difference. So to summarize the

1 (16m 3s):
managers and the sales people are playing each other the customers playing them. Both. Each dealership is playing the other dealerships and the manufacturers

2 (16m 10s):
playing all the dealerships

1 (16m 12s):
with this quotas and it's

2 (16m 13s):
incentives Chrysler sold

1 (16m 15s):
140,000 83 cars and trucks in October.

2 (16m 19s):
This is what it took to sell one of them. Like I said earlier several of us

1 (16m 30s):
came and recorded at this dealership and each of us chose different salespeople to follow Robin semyon chose Bobbie tantillo when he's listeners, somebody uses a word in an offensive way in her story. We're going to leave that in because we're trying to document what really happened Robert tantillo Bobby T around the dealership is in last place. He doesn't like talking about it. How many cars?

2 (16m 54s):
You sold I can't keep track. I know someone here just keeping track. Well, then you'd have to ask them. I didn't have to ask

1 (17m 6s):
them Freddy makes it clear in that Weekly speech he gives every Saturday remember that meeting he goes over everyone's individual sales gives them new goals. Nine more Bob's there that morning to Freddy is keeping track Bob T. You're at three. Thanks for stopping by Bob doesn't Flinch sits poker-faced in a chair couple of guys look down or stare at their hands.

2 (17m 30s):
I'm like 15 Bob 12

1 (17m 32s):
more diabetes new here before this. He was in the Wholesale Food business for three decades beginning car salesman a few years ago after he retired Bob says last month the other most sales for a couple weeks, but last month was last month Freddy needs this month. Bob says the issue is Just so much about selling cars. It's out of his control. He says his biggest problem as month is a lack of leads one way salesman get leads is from the internet Town and Country list all the cars that has online when people see when they like they usually call before they come in to make sure the car is really there.

2 (18m 9s):
But those calls go to guys in the back in the internet

1 (18m 12s):
Department. Then when the customer show up at the store, they meet whoever they talked

2 (18m 17s):
to on the phone and one of the bosses at the desk hands

1 (18m 20s):
them over to a real

2 (18m 21s):
Salesperson like Bob

1 (18m 25s):
except the Bob says, he's never been handed one of those leads.

2 (18m 28s):
They gotta give it to a guy that they know is you know that's been here and they feed him the deal. That's pretty much how it works. It really be tight with the desk. Yeah, Bob's not tight with the desk, but Freddy in an attempt to help

1 (18m 44s):
out gives Bob exactly what he

2 (18m 46s):
wants his first internet lead.

1 (18m 49s):
He tells Bob go on back get Dan marks in the internet office. So these words go get Dan. That's the signal for taking over an internet lead Freddy raises his eyebrows at Bob and not just head slowly like you got that Bob misunderstands the queue he gets them from the Internet Office who comes up to the desk to greet the customers and hand them off to

2 (19m 13s):
Bob who is suddenly disappeared. No one knows where he wants. Oh Freddy gives a customers to another salesman a bewildered Freddie calls. Over to Dan and I sent five T over there to get your whatever and then come back and when you go plus my said he busy come on. He kept going to the office like we call you sweetheart. I know I don't go get it and come right back box at minutes later. The whole idea was to get dealing come back and then take over the sale. That's what Dave does wanted me to get him. That's what does he comes in he gets the sale and then he gives it to the salesman. So it's dead now Manny got it. I'm sorry. I was talking to prison on the office.

2 (19m 53s):
Yeah. Yeah exactly. Three cars have I would it's hard to watch someone with a lot of experience for

1 (19m 60s):
rate someone with much less

2 (20m 1s):
experience for not knowing better. There's a line from the movie Glengarry Glen Ross.

1 (20m 7s):
You never open your mouth to you know, what the shot is when you don't know the shot. It's not like you don't want another shot. Bob doesn't notice shot but he's trying

2 (20m 17s):
in say there's a customer here take care of the customer. He said go get Dan so I went and got Dan. I'm supposed to know what he's thinking. It's hard you get bullied you get pushed around but you let it go move on. It's a tough job inside for everybody. I told you that you know, you got to be thick-skinned. You got it to be able to take a lot of absorb a lot these well now I gave it to the other guy. Okay, you want me to say?

1 (20m 58s):
So there actually is a place of town and country where they keep score of who has sold

2 (21m 2s):
what it's in Freddy's office general managers office. It's a whiteboard with each person sales for the month to date on it every car or truck that they've sold is represented by a little magnetic rectangle. That's roughly the size of a 9-volt battery. Everybody calls these chips and the different colors of the chip stand for different models of cars and trucks and they're at the day salesman calm and they hover around the Whiteboard seeing where everybody stands and generally everybody is Shooting for at least 15 sales a month at 15 sales your commission for the next month jumps from 20% to 30% There's also a bonus of $600 when you hit ten cars $250. If you sell seven cars in the

1 (21m 43s):
first two weeks of the month, there's money you get directly from Chrysler and I could be anywhere between fifty and two hundred fifty dollars per car mid-level salesman here at Town & Country make around $60,000 a

2 (21m 53s):
year top performers are closer to a hundred thousand most of that is commissions and Bonuses the number-one salesman the kind of country is always the same. Sometimes he has twice as many sales as whoever is in second place guys. I've been doing this twenty eight years. This guy is like one of the best I've ever seen. It has my peter pasta standing at the

1 (22m 12s):
board. It's the middle of the

2 (22m 13s):
month. Well, he's got a hundred and fifteen to pending 17 cars unbelievable. This guy's a born of born salesperson all the bedrooms sales guys at Town & Country say these things about this guy. He also happens to be the youngest salesman of dealership 28 Jason Mesilla reporter Sean Cole followed him around Jason stands out from everybody else on the sales floor in pretty much every way. He's taller than everybody

1 (22m 43s):
else and way more focused on his appearance always a full suit and tie double windsor knot gelled hair. He's

2 (22m 48s):
handsome and he isn't just the

1 (22m 50s):
best seller at Town & Country. He's one of the best sellers of jeeps Chrysler's Dodges and Rams in America.

2 (22m 57s):
So I'm to go on my I'm going to go on my my log in you. And then boom he showed me this internal Chrysler company website that ranks all the sales people talk and thousands of people you see this National inaudible there is 29,000 salespeople in the whole entire country and and you were um, 108 108 out of 29,000. You have a shocked look on your face because I look at it. I say that's freaking crazy. You know what I'm saying? You would think a guy that's in this business for 15 to 20 years should be doing that stuff. Jason's barely been in this

1 (23m 31s):
business for four years. When I met him on the last weekend of October, he had already outsold everybody for the month including a guy who's been doing this since Jason was a toddler, but he says he's not competing with the others. He's competing with himself. You know, I'm trying to excel I have my own goals that nobody would even know about you know what I mean? So like I just

2 (23m 49s):
I'm like my own little celebrity in my own little body. Ever sitting there talking. He pulls out a piece of paper and starts writing down everything. He's saying as he says it he always does this. I have 10 pages of notes from this interview his notes. So most of the

1 (24m 11s):
sales people that town and country are shooting for 15 to 20 sales in a month that's considered a solid performance. And Jason is not satisfied with a solid performance

2 (24m 21s):
is a digit number that I really want to

1 (24m 23s):
hit. He writes down that number in circles it and then moves on and I would love to just a child like I've achieved If 30 cause several times writes down 30 underlined several that is 30 cars a month. Alright, so I've done that enough to say I could do it. You know now I'm trickling writes down 30 plus sign, you know, 30 plus 4 October hoping to finish the month in the mid-30s somewhere, but Jason's own personal Olympic goal. Say what this number is that you wrote This is 40. 40s a big number, you know what I mean? If you can hit 40 cause that's more than a call per day. That's sick. That's crazy.

1 (25m 3s):
Especially when you sellin cars, you know what I mean? It's not like I'm selling suits what took me a while to understand is how Jason cells so many cars or what he's doing differently than everybody else and we asked pretty much everybody else this question, but their answers were kind of generic. He's a good-looking kid good personality got the

2 (25m 23s):
Again, even

1 (25m 24s):
Jason sort of defaults to truisms when you ask him what his secret is says he treats every customer like he would want to be treated but

2 (25m 32s):
as much as you can figure out anybody in less than a week, I think Jason success is

1 (25m 36s):
due to three basic attributes three characteristics. He has that have propelled

2 (25m 41s):
him to the top. So I'll go through those now number

1 (25m 44s):
one constructive delusion.

2 (25m 47s):
Now Jason knows that a certain percentage of customers depending on the month will walk away from him without

1 (25m 53s):
buying a car, of course that happens and

2 (25m 55s):
yet paradoxically he enters every negotiation pull in the knowledge that it will not happen as we're sitting there. He drew a picture of a very lopsided hourglass with a line across the skinny Park, you know, you looking at it half empty or half full. You know what I mean? Are you optimistic or you you know, what's the other word pessimist pessimistic to Jason? The glass is not half empty and it is not half full. You know me. I'm always at a hundred it is 100% full yeah, it's full and you're like what the hell? No, it's not. There's only half of the water there. No, no, it's folded. But for someone who barely possesses the word pessimistic in his vocabulary, that's not always how he seems on the sales floor more than any of the other sellers Jason's anxious own crazier and bite my nails my nails off just biting his nails hovering around the

1 (26m 49s):
managers desk. It's like the dealership making its quota is personal to him Jason and this is number two on our list of attributes. Jason doesn't just want to sell cars.

2 (27m 0s):
Jason needs to sell

1 (27m 2s):
cars. Case in point, I watched him work this one deal the lease on a Jeep Liberty. He played it totally cool at first

2 (27m 8s):
but when the haggling started it was

1 (27m 10s):
like someone had clamped a set of jumper cables to his

2 (27m 13s):
ankles and between 375 and 329 is 46 times 39 is another 1700 but you got to put the value point on it you now have a sunroof and you have

1 (27m 22s):
the the guy in cysts for an hour that he can't leave a deposit without talking to his wife and then he leaves a deposit. Jason

2 (27m 32s):
wins. Like I really don't runs outside to chat with another customer and he's already closed we're guiding here. And at this point he's completely dosed up on adrenaline jabbering like a speed freak. I just I just I just I just closed one eye just closed one that I didn't think I was going to close. The guy was like you on the fence. He's like my wife my wife my wife my wife and I like I get like, I threw something at him and he was like and you know those intense moments where you're like fuck is we're gonna do it our way and we did it so exciting. It doesn't matter. How many cars you do. It's like the first Delia life

1 (28m 7s):
two hours later. He's already

2 (28m 9s):
crashed. It's like that deal never happened. I'm struggling right now to get these deals out really strapped. I feel like I told him back on that feeling I'm back on that grind again. Like I need another ten cars the highest fleeting green eyes gone. I'm ready for the next year ready for the next one. So that's two and then the third and final attribute that I think has led Jason to being the top seller at Town & Country ABC always be calling your girlfriend to say baby. I just have a couple more things to take care of and then I'll be home. We got into an argument about it last night. And I don't know this is Jason's girlfriend Gina.

2 (28m 51s):
She stopped by to say hi to him at the shop. One of the days. We were there the night before that. He had come home too late and screwed up their dinner plans. Gina says there. Always running into a store five minutes before it closes. She's imposed a no work talk over dinner rule, but Jason always has just one last thing to tell her about something that happened at work. They've only been together a year so they can both still laugh about it at least with me.

1 (29m 15s):
But of course working long hours can threaten

2 (29m 18s):
everything else in your life and the entire business of selling cars is built

1 (29m 22s):
on working long hours working

2 (29m 24s):
weekends when more customers come in coming in on

1 (29m 26s):
your day off when the store needs to meet its quota and the the damage that can do is all around Jason the sales guy in the cubicle next to him. Peter passes told me managing a sales team at a dealership in Florida is what

2 (29m 39s):
led to his divorce. Yeah, of course he did. I was never home. I missed all functions and stuff because you know, like I married my job Manny who sits next

1 (29m 47s):
to Peter is separated from his wife partly due to the business Teresa and finance at her job caused her divorce Sal one of the managers you heard from before says the job was a factor in both of his divorces. Jason and Jeana wouldn't even be together if it weren't for the job. They met at the dealership when she was buying from another salesperson and now here they are both driving the exact same kind of car. You know, it's funny. We both got way Jeeps. We

2 (30m 14s):
love she hasn't thought 12. I got a 14 and we just we have a good time with and they create trucks. They got everything you

1 (30m 20s):
need all the luxury the right size

2 (30m 23s):
and they last forever like you're trying to sell me now. Yeah, and if you've ever been you're gonna go out and buy a car before the end of the night. Night, they're going to be like I wrote I wrote. You know what I'll be back at the office in about two hours. I'm picking up my new Jeep. All right, I mean this product is like on flyer. The second half of October Town and Country sales stay

1 (30m 52s):
slow and going into the last two days of the month. They

2 (30m 55s):
still have so many cars

1 (30m 56s):
to so that when Freddy sees me arrive in the morning on the next to last day of the month knowing what it is that I'm about to ask him. He starts laughing.

2 (31m 5s):
Oh boy. Here we go. We're behind 16 cars for the month so far and that's not good. That means 16 cars between today and tomorrow here's how hard that number is Freddy tells me that he only expects 15 or

1 (31m 19s):
16 customers to show up in the store

2 (31m 21s):
each day visit to get to his number he's gonna have to sell a car to every other person who walks in the door

1 (31m 28s):
and what my fellow radio producers and I witnessed over the next two days. Okay, some deals do go through but it's almost a catalog of all the ways that a car deal can fall apart over the obvious ways a young woman doesn't get

2 (31m 40s):
approved for her car loan a father and son. To come back tomorrow to sign the papers and take the car. They never come back but the turn out to be all sorts of other ways that a car deal can implode that we had never imagined or conceived. For instance Bob T. Remember Bob T the salesman with the lowest sales of anybody this

1 (31m 59s):
month. Okay a deal of his starts to unravel after the paperwork is signed after the deposit is paid basically what happens is he told a couple that their new

2 (32m 7s):
car is two thousand dollars cheaper than it actually is they found Truth while talking to Rich the finance manager and kind of Hit the roof. Why am I thinking I'm getting screwed in and they have he was also surprised he himself thought it was two thousand dollars cheaper the finance manager Rich tells Bob T. The bumpy should have okay first better

1 (32m 29s):
understood which rebate the couple's qualified for that's where the mistake

2 (32m 32s):
was and second. He should have explained it to the couple. He left the middle out. You left the me to the sandwich app. That wasn't told to me it was It was that we were going to give him the same discounting of what I understood. I'm only going by the numbers that were given to me and I gave him the numbers and he signed

1 (32m 52s):
it started with 28 9 9 6 which manages to save this deal a barely there at 7:00 at night on the next to last day of the month one of the salesmen Scott Froehlich get some weird news about one of his sales. He doesn't have our producers Jonathan menjivar that some customers that he had just sold a car to work.

2 (33m 13s):
Now coming

1 (33m 13s):
back to the dealership, but not to pick up their new car and take it

2 (33m 17s):
home. No. No, they have to pick out another car because I the other car was sold and nobody marked it. It was sold. Yep. That's right. They accidentally sold the same

1 (33m 28s):
card twice to different customers. Here's how it happened. Scott had sold a red Jeep Grand Cherokee to this customer. This guy who came in with his dad. They don't deposit but another salesman Mike Lester everybody calls him Michael had already sold that same car the day before the customer hadn't picked up the car yet and the little magnetic chip that they use to keep track of the sales the one for this car. No.

2 (33m 54s):
It

1 (33m 54s):
put it on the whiteboard in Friday's office the board that keeps track of Who Sold what Scott is not happy

2 (34m 1s):
drink. You're welcome to come over for a fucking drink, or maybe this does a better job capturing is Mode God. I want to shoot myself right now. Now we're Vader customers back on the lot with his dad.

1 (34m 15s):
It's got walks up to him. And maybe this is the time to tell you that Scott moonlights as a mortician

2 (34m 20s):
which means he's used to handling

1 (34m 21s):
all kinds of situations with customers. And so even though he did absolutely nothing

2 (34m 26s):
wrong. Here's what he says I fucked up and I sold us old car. I'll admit it broke. My heart Fredo broke my have you got customers Godfather reference there? Scott tells him that if the other cell phones through the car is his but the other deal does not fall through so Scott and the guy go wandering around the lot in the dark looking for another Grand Cherokee read the guys set on red and they find one. What is this one? Yes, it is. Another red Grand Cherokee Scott writes down the

1 (34m 58s):
stock number runs to the desk to check it out and

2 (35m 2s):
it has also been sold. It's got so many. Hope is

1 (35m 5s):
that that deal will fall apart and you can sell the card to this customer. We sends

2 (35m 10s):
home fingers crossed. And that however is still not over and around quarter to 8:00 that night something happens at the desk that really really takes

1 (35m 27s):
off the manager

2 (35m 28s):
sow the amount of stupidity that just happened far exceeds anything I have ever experienced in the car business. Okay. Here's the short version Steven Brown

1 (35m 40s):
a computer engineer from New

2 (35m 41s):
Jersey has come in to finalize a deal on a

1 (35m 43s):
new Dodge Challenger Coupe. Its

2 (35m 46s):
algorithm are you doing All right. Stephen is worries customer one woman on the sales team. But Lori is out sick Stephen. Tell Sal that she texted him and somebody else was going to be taken care of the deal. No, she just sits like message about Agony for a few minutes. If you want, you can grab a seat in the waiting area over this Stevens it down takatori on the phone. I have a customer of yours ESS. Someone else is supposed to take care of them who's supposed to take care of him. Good Michael S is gone for the night. So now what do I do? He's gone to

1 (36m 18s):
Savages Scotty, but he's not around Peter's around but he's working another deal

2 (36m 22s):
then you know, how in every shop have every kind everywhere. There's that one team playing late

1 (36m 27s):
staying extra go get every kid you can turn to who always helped clean up. Whatever

2 (36m 31s):
weirdo mess. Just erupted one hour before closing. Yeah, in this case that would happen to be Jason. What are you doing? Right now? Jason comes over to the podium Shawn Cole who is trailing Jason picks up the story from here, so Jason comes over to the desk

1 (36m 47s):
and Sal explains what's going

2 (36m 48s):
on? Here's the rundown. You ready? This is Lori's customer a customer came in to see Lori. Lori is not here today. So she set it up with my class to my cluster went home. Mike

1 (36m 56s):
Perez knew about the deal Mike Perez went home. TK's a finance manager on a deal he's off

2 (37m 0s):
today. So now I'm supposed to piece this together. What are we doing? I'm not quite clear. Is it ding build out? I'm not quite clear. Okay. So what am I doing right now? He's not quite clear. I know the call was ready list. How you doing? Sir,

1 (37m 17s):
now this isn't a situation where Stephen just needs to sign some papers and pick up the keys to his new car. There are still a lot of steps to March through defines the folder and learns that Steven and Lori never got to a final final offer for his trade in in order to do that. The car has to go up on the lift for a full inspection in the service department, which is inexplicably closed on this the second to last day of the month when they need absolutely every sale they can.

2 (37m 46s):
Nobody didn't call me see if they

1 (37m 48s):
can leave. We're gonna lose this deal with no inspection. There's no trade in and with no trade in There's No Deal. Somebody finally does a cursory inspection on the car without the lift in the dark all the while Stephen is getting more and more anxious that no one seems to know what's going on. Jason tries to get him in with the finance guy to work out the terms of the deal, but the finance guys busy Jason explains this to sow which sets sell off

2 (38m 14s):
again. He needs to sit with that customer. Okay, this is a Don't get excited. Don't get excited. I'm about ready to walk the fuck out. No don't like no bullshit. No don't get excited. Okay, I've never been in a store this fucked up in my life. Don't get excited don't want you to get excited. I want you to just remain calm.

1 (38m 32s):
This is actually the third time Steven's made the Trek out here from New Jersey.

2 (38m 36s):
It's a two-hour drive. He does not want to make again. I

1 (38m 39s):
love the car, but they don't get it. They're gonna have to get it done. They cannot lose this deal. There's still 10 cars short of their monthly goal when Stephen does sit down with the finance manager. He can't get the interest rate. He wanted 3.3%

2 (38m 56s):
They finally resolved that but then he doesn't have

1 (38m 57s):
insurance for the new vehicle or he hasn't called Geico to transfer the policy from his old car and takes care of that too. But then as he's transferring his stuff from the trunk of his old

2 (39m 7s):
car into the new one the billing office notices a glitch something's wrong with the

1 (39m 12s):
Insurance card from GEICO Stevens

2 (39m 15s):
address isn't on it and the date on it says

1 (39m 17s):
October 31st, even though it's October 30th. That means Steven won't be able to legally drive the car until the following day

2 (39m 25s):
Tiffany good effort. Good evening. This is Jason. I'm a sales representative at Town & Country Jeep. Jason gets on the phone with Geico thinking maybe it'll be an easy fix. It won't be we all stand around and watch him work this thing. I'm sitting with a client of yours and he's purchasing a vehicle picking it up tonight. I have the ID card and the it's quarter past. At 10 at this point but it's not like he's opening up a new policy solely doing it then it's 10:26. Well, we gotta try to make an exception. If you can please talk to your supervisors one will have you can finally Tiffany comes through. Oh my God. Geico says it will email a new insurance card. Jason keeps Tiffany the operator on the line until everything is squared away with the billing office. How long you been working for Geico?

2 (40m 6s):
You sound like you really got a lot of enthusiasm Billing gives the all clear we all follow Steven out to the parking lot. It's about eleven o'clock at this point. Jason get Ali watches him tear out of the parking lot and hang a right. Judge sees that way. You went East jerseys West Oh my God,

1 (40m 39s):
we're coming up Car Talk continues. It feels really weird to say but it's true. That's in a minute. I'm just like a public radio when our program continues. Support for This American Life comes from Progressive saving money on your car insurance is easy with Progressive. It's an average savings of over 750 dollars for customers who switch and Save in fact customers can qualify for an average of six discounts on their auto policy with Progressive. This counts just for starting a quote online or having multiple vehicles on their policy get your quote online at progressive.com and see how much you could be saving National annual average auto insurance savings.

1 (41m 19s):
By new customers surveyed in 2019 potential savings will vary discounts vary and are not available in all states and situations. This American Life Myra glass for this Fourth of July weekend. We are re running a program about something that feels very American even though it happens all over the world, of course and that is selling cars Today's Show is a rerun we did all the reporting for today's show in October 2013 a month when car sales are strong 1.2 million new vehicles sold that month, but that doesn't mean that every dealership in every town had an easy time of it and today in our program. We watch one dealership just one on Long Island Town and tree Jeep Chrysler Dodge Ram is what it's called.

1 (42m 0s):
Is it try to make their sales goal of 129 cars for the month if they sell 129 cars Chrysler's going to pay him a big bonus and they need that money to be in the black for the month if they just sell 128 bupkis.

2 (42m 15s):
So it's a 9:15 in the morning on the 31st. How many cars you got to get going?

1 (42m 22s):
That's pretty general manager here lying more. Anybody have to say about that

2 (42m 29s):
God help us. God help us now. It's going to be it's going to be

1 (42m 35s):
hard. Okay, Monty would State the last day with just two or three cars to sell nine. That's crazy. And it's Halloween which means that lots of potential customers going to be out with their kids today. Everybody is so tense that it's not even 10:00 in the morning and a customer walks out without buying a car.

2 (42m 55s):
Sorry. I came in to make a deal and that's not working. Thank you. Have a good day. And one of the managers sow has this edgy little conversation with the salesman who let him walk out we have to go. Org,

1 (43m 10s):
you gotta stop doing that row. I stopped doing it. You don't count as you do so you don't even come up here. And how am I supposed to help? Where's my crystal ball? And the shop do it again? You're following them. Good pack up go. He doesn't go. fucking real the morning still young when I find Freddy and his office selling a car to himself alone a car for the maintenance department to lend out to customers are getting the car is repaired. He's like to count that in a sales total.

2 (43m 43s):
So now we only need eight more. She's got to come together.

1 (43m 47s):
They made afternoon who buy a second Corner car for the dealership back in February if anybody Durango for his wife to make the number that month replacing a car that he had just bought a year before for her for the same reason. Yo, what's the story with you? Cause fed he's going Joe Monte one of the guys who runs the used-car side of the business at Town & Country. Joe has got his own goal to hit for the month. That is separate from the new cargo 70 used cars. That's the number of ready set for him. I wasn't even going out yet a what-what are we going on?

1 (44m 27s):
Okay, but how come none was even delivered to have still sitting at six your he's delivered the Chevy Trailblazer. Hold on. Well, we were at Town and Country. We asked everybody what it would mean for him or her personally. If the team did not make it sounds call. There's actually this guy Joe Monte over in used cars who gave us the best picture of that Sara Canning hung out with him for a while Jose particularly stressed out this month half the time I'm with him. It feels like he's fighting even with customers.

2 (44m 53s):
Nobody's giving you a run around Jessica, okay, yelling and screaming and being

1 (44m 58s):
rude and threatening is not going to get you anywhere the

2 (45m 1s):
car the car the car is a great car

1 (45m 5s):
next fight and calls a

2 (45m 6s):
woman in the back office. Who

1 (45m 7s):
he thinks ratted to Freddie about a deal she

2 (45m 9s):
didn't like. Teresa what can you pick up the phone Nails can get them later? Why did you run? Why did you run to Freddy? Why did you run to Freddy and tell Freddy about a Chrysler 300? What whose conversation why were you talking to Eddie? first of all, if a manager writes off on a deal and signs it Old cautious and she hung up the phone.

1 (45m 35s):
I'm sorry surprise anyone would have the balls to fight with Joe. He's a big man

2 (45m 40s):
350 pounds large and in charge the day. I meet him he's wearing a grey tracksuit. But what I quickly find out is that he's wearing a track suit because it's his day off. He's supposed to be at a son Mike's football game against Malvern. He hasn't been able to catch an away game all season and he took this one Sunday off to do it was important to him for so many years. He wasn't around enough for his kids. He's working all the time.

1 (46m 3s):
Joe Knows, Mike will be looking for him in the stands right about

2 (46m 5s):
now and he's not going to be there because he's here with the car lot. We're a little short-handed. So I got to be here which is not a problem. Listen. I'm making money making money just Catch-22 we missing a game and but that's that's the call business. That's the call business. I'll make it up to him later yesterday. Joe was late to his mother-in-law's

1 (46m 28s):
surprise 70th birthday party

2 (46m 30s):
last week. He was late for his own Mother's 60th, the used-car side of town and country is supposed to sell

1 (46m 35s):
70 cars by the end of the month. That's Joe's version of the 129 on the new side. When I first met Joe used was at 35 at stake is Joe's big year-end bonus, Joe wouldn't tell me the amount of the bonus, but he made it clear. It's very very nice down payment on a house noise since he felt so behind the last Once this month October is make or break for Joe. He's got to get to at least 70 cars if he wants any hope of reaching that bonus by the end of the year and it's not looking good 20 years in the business Joe's never seen a stretch this slow for this long Joe believes it mostly on Hurricane Sandy a year ago tens of thousands of people lost their cars all at once and they got new ones all at once.

1 (47m 18s):
So now you're later tens of thousands of people are out of the used car market who normally would be buying and selling right now. Now we had two weekends in a row. We sold one car.

2 (47m 28s):
For two Saturdays and two Sundays. We sold one

1 (47m 31s):
car between the whole weekend a weekend whole two

2 (47m 34s):
weekends. We sold one car

1 (47m 37s):
there was days we can see a

2 (47m 38s):
customer. Joe goes outside to do an appraisal on a Nissan Quest. This also gives them a chance to have a cigarette one of about 40 parliament's he'll smoke today

1 (47m 50s):
his wife and kids get on him about the smoking. He's got six kids six kids to her grown for them still at home

2 (47m 56s):
Jose. The only Breadwinner in the family always has been so it's all on him even in the best of

1 (48m 2s):
times Joseph Warrior like his grandmother. He's 42 years old, but he looks

2 (48m 6s):
older in the past year. He's gained about 80 pounds. In the parking lot Joe throws away a half-smoked cigarette and then looks over the Nissan Quest

1 (48m 14s):
tires are so so need some detailing. It's got a crack taillight and a bad Carfax report. Meaning it's been in an accident.

2 (48m 21s):
$2,000 is

1 (48m 22s):
fair for this car, Joe says

2 (48m 24s):
so what these are going for at auction. He tells me the customers are going to want at least 2,500 but there's no way he can do that

1 (48m 31s):
2500 is just too much. He heads back inside

2 (48m 34s):
$2,500. That's everything instantly caves. That's what I will do. He

1 (48m 39s):
needs the deal.

2 (48m 40s):
The shake on it

1 (48m 42s):
Jose about 22 when he started in the car business had a baby at 18 his son Joseph then four more kids Dean Chris Michael and Adriana plus his stepson Louis Joe himself was one of five kids his mom raise them by herself. No dad around no money and moved around a lot

2 (48m 60s):
with his own kids. He's the

1 (49m 1s):
uptight parent the one who doesn't laugh enough the one who hammers them about consequences.

2 (49m 6s):
He wants his kids to fear his wrath,

1 (49m 9s):
but also to know he Loves them Sometimes It's Tricky for him to balance that or even to talk about it. I

2 (49m 15s):
have I have a good relationship with my children. Not as I didn't have a father so

1 (49m 21s):
I it's hard to to do something when you don't know how to do it. Sometimes you don't know how to

2 (49m 30s):
I'm like a manly man. So I love them very much, but I don't know how to

1 (49m 34s):
sometimes show it to them. I Kissed A my hug them, but you know, I'm saying, you know something. I have to adapt to but that's it. Good. They're good kids. Joe wants his kids to have more stability than he had growing up and a better standard of living for 16 years. They all lived in a big house in Smithtown in a fairly wealthy neighborhood. And Joe says there was pressure there some other kids at school had fancy clothes and extravagant vacations blowout sweet 16 parties. He didn't want his kids to feel less than so. We made sure within reason that they had with the other kids had but three years ago. He left town and country for another job at a Toyota dealer and it didn't go well at all.

1 (50m 16s):
All he lost while he says he lost everything but in any case it was a lot of money, they sold their big house in Smithtown and moved to a smaller house in Levittown about five minutes from the dealership. And in a lot of ways Jose glad about that. It's made them closer as a family he says but he's also trying to work his way back up. He'd like to be able to buy them all a bigger house. Give everyone a little more room. That's why he's so worried about this bad stretch of business and about getting that bonus. For the end of the day his son might

2 (50m 46s):
call Jose already spoken to the coach about how the football game went to Saks and two tackles. That's great. What? Yeah. All right, I'll be home in probably like hopefully like 20 minutes and I'll give you money to go out to eat. All right, but every one of them. It's hard to say no and you try your best

1 (51m 20s):
and you doing well. It's no big deal and you can take care of them.

2 (51m 23s):
And then there's just doing well to where

1 (51m 26s):
you're making. You're making it

2 (51m 27s):
by. What is it? Today is October what's going to happen in a couple of months on my son's getting ready to leave for college. Am I going to have the money? It's mid-afternoon on the new car side of town and

1 (51m 56s):
country. So what do you do all day on the last day of the month when you need to sell everything you possibly can well instead of waiting for customers to come into the store you call up any weed you

2 (52m 6s):
have and try to close deals right over the phone if you can one of the says people Lori does this with previous customer

1 (52m 13s):
Jason also sells to a guy he knows over the phone Peter gets the lead from a cop Upstate that he sold the Durango truck to the lead is a friend of the cops. Also a cop who wins the same deal as friend. God Peter gets him on the phone and says they'll give him the deal for two reasons.

2 (52m 28s):
One of them you were referred and the other one is you're an officer of the law respect that over here big time just so you know. All right. He's

1 (52m 35s):
Christmas leaves out the third and main reason for the great deal that he's getting they need 8 more sales by Nine o'clock and the cop ends up buying his Durango for 2214 dollars less than the dealership paid for it. Even if to finance charges and hold back and all the other ways. They make money. They still lost on this one. Did I this guy Richard masana? He was going to get an oil change this morning and stopped in on a whim and they showed him numbers way lower than any other dealer that he'd been to Richard called up his wife to go to know. Hey surprise. We're getting a new truck when it's test drive. He still seemed amazed at what was happening

2 (53m 9s):
who would have thought between buying a truck never thought it would happen.

1 (53m 17s):
His payment will be for 25 a

2 (53m 18s):
month. The salesman says later

1 (53m 20s):
that it should have been 525 but the end of the month turns out yes, it is true that you do get a better deal at the end of the month in Town and Country as we any month that they're struggling to make their goal when you actually look at the numbers the cars that they sell in the last two days. The average deal actually loses money versus the deals of the make of the beginning of the month where they made about 900 dollars per car. Okay for car people I'm not going to say these words. I am factoring in everything they made on financing and warranties and Extras and hold back and the one percent that get some Chrysler and every car when I make that statement. I am not factoring in any money they would get if they hit their number and get their bonus from Chrysler that would add about five hundred dollars per car which still does not give them a huge profit per car.

1 (54m 6s):
It used to be a lot higher but today because people research prices on the internet profit margins on new cars are lower than what they used to be. Not just here at this dealership, but everywhere in the car business the owner of town and country called me that he used to make five hundred dollars more per car and each salesman made more per car. Now. They'll have to make it up in volume. So it's more of a grind a harder job with tighter deals unless reward and if you're wondering car dealerships make less profit than other businesses

2 (54m 36s):
a recent study by an outfit called sageworks found the car dealers end up with less than three cents on every dollar they

1 (54m 42s):
make as profit Which is less

2 (54m 44s):
profitable. Then furniture stores office supply stores

1 (54m 47s):
restaurants lower than pretty much everything but grocery stores on car dealers say that they are not making a killing on average.

2 (54m 55s):
It's true

1 (55m 1s):
at some point during this last day of the month one of the deals that they had been

2 (55m 3s):
counting on false through my clusters sale of a red Grand

1 (55m 7s):
Cherokee, but turns out that's no problem for the dealership because Scott has a customer who wants that exact same truck. Do you remember that deal the day before we're to salesman? So the same card of to different customers the mortician. It's that salesman and that customer and the salesman Scott is very very happy and the only bad news about all this is what it does to my questers sales total for the

2 (55m 29s):
month that drops me down to 14

1 (55m 33s):
14 sucks because like I said earlier 15 is the magic number 15 is where the serious bonuses and commissions kick in most of the guys count on getting

2 (55m 42s):
those could add up to big. But then Scott

1 (55m 47s):
he's customer is now going to get the red Grand Cherokee Scott realizes what this means for my ancestor

2 (55m 52s):
Mike. Wait, is that you 15 car? Yeah, you take the check switch it around. Okay, split it with me. Okay. Now Mike will get the credit for the sale. He's at 15 again. Okay, good. Love you Scott Scott kisses Mike on the cheek producer Brian Reed Witnesses. All is your a 15 now. Yes. Did he owe you one or? No, but we always help each other out, especially on the last day of the month. How do you feel? excited so I missed anxious salesman and

1 (56m 31s):
salesman literally running to the desk or to finance. There is one salesman who was a model of calm even his cubicle is different from everybody else's there's no swag. There's no pictures of family. They're no good luck charms. It's bear the salesman. His name is Manny resada has says he doesn't like the distractions one of our producers Brian. You just heard got to know many as 58 born in Peru. He has gray hair and glasses one morning at the showroom. He gestured cryptically for me to come. To his desk as if he had a secret to tell me turn that off. He said pointing to my tape recorder. I explained that I was a radio reporter and I needed to record whatever he was going to tell me for it to be useful, but he wasn't having it.

1 (57m 11s):
He seemed unimpressed by our little radio story. He said my colleagues and I were like fisherman who had no idea what we were angling for. We had no Focus. We were just casting blindly Manny I soon learned is a man of many metaphors. I put that my recorder the thing you need to be paying attention to he said his the negotiation the salesman is the tiger and the customer is the deer the Tiger has to eat and you can't eat if you don't kill that dear. He moved his right hand up and then clamped his fingers around his own neck. You have to go for the neck he said but if you try to kill him too early the deer will wake up and run away.

1 (57m 55s):
As the day went on I kept trying to get Manny to let me record him, but he wouldn't instead he'd come up to me while I was interviewing someone else point to his head very deliberately presumably to his brain. Give me a knowing look and then walk away at one point. We found ourselves facing each other at his desk. He asked me if I'd read the greatest book ever written about car sales. I don't think so. I told him what is it the Art of War he said by Sun Tzu. Zoo as you maybe know was a military General and strategist in ancient China The Art of War is his magnum opus where he lays out his tactics for How To Succeed In conflict and those sons who was writing about actual War.

1 (58m 36s):
The book has become well known in business and sales circles. It's kind of like the seven habits of highly effective people if that had been written in the 5th Century, BC an individual strips of bamboo. So I went to the bookstore and bought a copy and then headed back to town and country Manny. How are you sir?

2 (58m 53s):
Can I show you the homework I've been doing I handed in

1 (58m 56s):
my copy of The Art of War which had marked up with notes about its relevance to Car Sales. I could see why many felt that it spoke to his profession lines like draw them in with the prospect of gain take them by confusion seemed especially on

2 (59m 9s):
point how far you are I finished

1 (59m 12s):
it you finish it. Okay, I want to ask you question whether you learn whatever I learned. Well, I'm here to learn some more. And I was in for two days man. He took me under his wing with my recorder running and became my sales sense. A man is kind of an unusual car salesman because he has no affection for cars at all. If a customer asks him how much horsepower car has or how quickly it can go from 0 to 60. Usually he has to look up the answer Go Ask A co-worker. He has no interest in that stuff. So instead many developed a way to sell the customer using a different approach this ecology.

1 (59m 53s):
How you penetrate his brain

2 (59m 56s):
Sun Tzu says all Warfare is deception.

1 (1h 0m 1s):
Help me understand this how to penetrate the brain of one's opponent many showed me a couple of movies on YouTube one was a reenactment of the Second Punic War in the third Century BC Hannibal's campaign against the Romans man. You wanted me to pay attention to one battle in particular from that war the Battle of

2 (1h 0m 19s):
cannae one of the bloodiest ever. That can I Hannibal's

1 (1h 0m 24s):
troops were vastly outnumbered get about 40,000 men for this versus Rome's army, which had roughly 85

2 (1h 0m 30s):
thousand. The Romans will have the confidence that comes only with greater numbers will present them with the unexpected and watch them fall apart. That is a secret. The present that I unexpected forces will be arranged like this

1 (1h 0m 46s):
the details of Hannibal strategy are bit complicated to go into here many had to draw me a diagram to help me get it but Let's just say it involves an unusual

2 (1h 0m 53s):
troop formation that made the Romans think they were gaining ground. When really

1 (1h 0m 58s):
they were at Hannibal's

2 (1h 0m 59s):
win this point. The Romans will think they have one let them tends to Victor watching this remember on a laptop on the showroom floor customers are Milling about checking out the new cars as Hannibal's mercenaries and Cavalry and circle the Romans and trap them for good and now The Killing started so how does many use this to sell Dodge Chargers

1 (1h 1m 32s):
will just like Hannibal would he presents the customer with the unexpected what they expect is for the salesman to be pushy and try to coerce them into buying a car at a certain price. So Manny does the opposite he acts as if he doesn't even want to sell the car. He agrees with the customer uses a similar tone repeats words. The customer says if someone comes in and says he's just there to

2 (1h 1m 52s):
I was

1 (1h 1m 52s):
not to buy that's totally fine manual say and I'll back off the idea is to make them belief

2 (1h 1m 59s):
that he's doing everything from his point of view. So he think is his thing his game, but he's really not absolutely not. What game is he

1 (1h 2m 7s):
playing in reality my

2 (1h 2m 8s):
game? simple simple man, he gave me

1 (1h 2m 21s):
an example of this that he executed a few days earlier with a

2 (1h 2m 24s):
customer named Julio who was looking for a Jeep

1 (1h 2m 26s):
Grand Cherokee Julio runs warehouses for a living and negotiates for his company. So many knew he'd be a formidable opponent. Julio told me later that he'd already visited seven other Jeep dealerships by the time he got to Town and Country and

2 (1h 2m 38s):
was calling and texting with another three. When you sat down

1 (1h 2m 42s):
across from Manny Julio made the first offer $36,000. The jeep was listed at $45,000. So Julio's offer was absurdly low Julio new was unrealistic. He expected man. You say no way that he could never give it to him for that price. But then listen to what Manny did instead I say, alright if I can sell it to 36. Are you ready to go right now? Show me the money was a credit card. Where's the credit card many says. This was the key move the Expected move because I've ever thought I would say.

2 (1h 3m 13s):
Yes. Suddenly, they don't know what to do or what to say because

1 (1h 3m 19s):
confused he cannot back up because that's what he said to me.

2 (1h 3m 24s):
If you give me a 36 times I buy the car at this point the woman will think they have one let them taste victory. He pulled this credit card out a little bit. Okay, give it to me and I say, all right. Let me take the offer to my manager even though I

1 (1h 3m 41s):
knew that we cannot do

2 (1h 3m 43s):
it. After days of negotiation many ended up scoring this deal Julio paid $40,000 for the Jeep which was low the dealership lost money on the car. But after it was all over Julio told me that this move when Manny pretended to take his low offer. Seriously. He said without that he would have walked out of town and country immediately, which would have meant no sale. Nothing towards the monthly quota. By 4:00 p.m. The hustling in the showroom is paying off chips are going up on the board and

1 (1h 4m 19s):
Freddy's office. Even one of the guys in the back rooms and pitching in finance guy Terrance Kelly TK. He's reaching for the phone.

2 (1h 4m 27s):
So basically the numbers are down. They need all the deals made me call my niece in Las Vegas, believe it or not. She's been trying to buy a car anyway.

1 (1h 4m 42s):
Hello. Hi Katie. How are you? I have you on the speakerphone. Okay? You guys got 34 nieces and nephews Katie has his goddaughter though. So it keeps the special eye out for the time that this was recorded. The rest of the family didn't know that she was pregnant though. He did even though he did not know until he picked up the receiver and started filling out the forms for the car sale her fiance his last name. Okay

2 (1h 5m 7s):
Charles.

1 (1h 5m 11s):
Parker Getting married to somebody blessing of a Parker. Oh bark off the related to bother all what does he do by the way, I never asked you. Woo! Hhv AC company nice. I like that. He's happy in the right area for air conditioning. I guess the dealership is selling the card Katie below cost and $900 loss and TK is going to end up spending twelve hundred dollars of his own money to ship the car out to her in Las Vegas. And this this

2 (1h 5m 51s):
is the sale to put some over the

1 (1h 5m 52s):
top. This is the one that you're 29 sale of the month just a few minutes before five o'clock, right? If this happens, I stopped by Freddy the general managers office. Nobody is running into high five. There's not even Staff announcement on the PA saying they made it.

2 (1h 6m 6s):
Like I said, it's weirdly anticlimactic. There's no hurrah. There's no balloons falling from the ceiling.

1 (1h 6m 14s):
We've done our job. Everybody earns a paycheck. That's the bottom line and then the clock starts ticking like tomorrow morning. I'm next month. You're all a bunch of losers tomorrow morning. You start all over again. That's how it

2 (1h 6m 26s):
goes. The wife. Oh my God. Don't get married.

1 (1h 6m 36s):
We're fighting because I told she says to me. What time are you getting home until the time don't you forget how many to my whatever I get home? What do you want to talk? I'm caught one of my punching in

2 (1h 6m 44s):
I said when I get home I get home and I hung up on her. So now she's pissed and she's texting. Okay. So why do you have to bite my head

1 (1h 6m 50s):
off? Positional married a plumber 9 to 5. Okay weekends off. Okay. He takes it back. This paid actually continues to the next few hours every text message

2 (1h 7m 2s):
then at

1 (1h 7m 2s):
6:57 two hours before causing one of the managers Mike Perez and Jason stuff huddling the desk a little freaked out. Mike walks two Freddy's office to explain the problem to Freddie the counters wrong. They're not at 129 because there's an extra chip on the board.

2 (1h 7m 17s):
There was a typical supposed to be pulled off really weird am one. Yeah. It was up. There should have been off of there because the customer switched cars but so input the new chip up. We're going to take the old chip off some salt 128 but he does know that this moment there is another deal being

1 (1h 7m 33s):
negotiated that could possibly get them back up to 129 Peters the salesman for that one, but the deal is stuck over the price of the customers trade in what they should pay for it go make that deal right now, whatever it is just make the fucking deal, but that deal is not too easy to settle and while they're waiting more bad news. You remember that. Red Grand Cherokee that Scott and Mike Webster each. It's so different people and then my customers guy dropped out and Scott got the deal and it was the kiss now Scott's guy also drops out. He doesn't want to buy tonight because he wants his mom to see the car tomorrow Freddie over here Scott saying this to one of the managers what you have a problem. What's the matter with it? What's the matter with Scott?

2 (1h 8m 14s):
The guy wants to show his mom tomorrow the car originally. What do you mean? This isn't a deal. I thought it was but you fucking kidding me you have insurance on this point everything I don't even need an even send it into the bank because we don't have his prior employment what are we doing I thought these old one into the bank today I actually all the costs have insurance I wanted to the bank of got to be fucking kidding me it's got steel is dead there

1 (1h 8m 42s):
are 127 which is two hours left before closing

2 (1h 8m 47s):
I just saw Scott's I'm fucked so now they scrambled

1 (1h 8m 51s):
to figure out okay there was Mike Lester's customer for that red Grand Cherokee could they possibly give him better terms that would bring him back to the table Freddy orders one of the managers might Paris to make that happen just do it it's gonna be too late you're going to wait a

2 (1h 9m 5s):
half hour longer it's getting later and later I'd rather have a sure thing than not just fucking up.

1 (1h 9m 12s):
How much is that loose? Yeah, the only question is how much does the deal is not whether it was is so my prayers cause Richie and finance Richie does amazing lock. The guy actually called back saying that he would agree to the terms. But okay. Here's the catch. He just wants 24 hours to think about this. My parents asked okay, if we sweeten the terms can we get in to decide right now, which doesn't think so.

2 (1h 9m 34s):
It's not going to change anything tonight. I don't think for me to pull down my pants or you don't need to but Friday's telling me too. He's telling me to Saw I need to just throw whatever you need to do. But but I'm telling you if I told him it was free in the same. You can get the same answer. Anyway, 24 hours

1 (1h 9m 58s):
All Is Lost. And then it just six minutes. They turn it around which offers a better deal to that guy on the red Grand Cherokee after all and yes, he takes it and Peter's deal that was stuck over the price of the trade in gets unstuck when the managers suck it up and pay $1,500 more for the trade in then I think it's worth back to 129.

2 (1h 10m 23s):
Everybody seems a little stunned by which has happened when it's done pretty and Sal look out of the showroom from the desk.

1 (1h 10m 30s):
gold Sailors on the deck of the 19th century ship I just got thrashed around by a hurricane and also when murder is white

2 (1h 10m 36s):
whale Swedish itself I feel like I'm back in fucking Infinity oh my God this is ridiculous this month oh my God it's just the of the month wasn't bad enough we got to suffer a little more delay state of month fucking believable all right me ready sound of course doesn't stop with the text messages through all this

1 (1h 11m 4s):
the wife who else

2 (1h 11m 7s):
I don't know when she's even fighting for him they get their bonus from Chrysler

1 (1h 11m 16s):
$68,000 and because with the dealership ends up in the black not the red for the month Jason finishes the month of 29 cars almost twice anyone else as usual Manny has 10 mykel fifteens got 18 The Used Car Side Giamatti side did not meet its goal they were hoping for 70 they got 57 meaning Tremonti probably will not be getting his Your aunt bonus this year and Bob T the salesman at the bottom of the board with the lease sales this

2 (1h 11m 45s):
month. Well, the night isn't over for Bob to would you put the key but you put the car I got the key. Where's the car?

1 (1h 11m 54s):
Not long after they reach 129 a couple walks in wanting to buy a Dodge Dart for their 19 year old son. Bob T rushes them through the test drive as the husband sit at his computer and use his phone with we call the insurance company and then runs literally runs to get their new car prepped and inspected in the

2 (1h 12m 11s):
garage. So it's a bring it right over the service. Yeah, but is it going or is it a I don't know if it's going to go to take a call home at 10 o'clock at night.

1 (1h 12m 29s):
These guys can say what they want this Old Time. Nobody works as fast as me here. You noticed that huh? Yes or no

2 (1h 12m 39s):
and with that Bob T Landstown of countries last out of the month number 131

1 (1h 12m 45s):
car passed the goal of 129 or anyway, that's what they thought that night the next morning when everybody comes in and look at

2 (1h 12m 52s):
Chrysler's official count on the computer and according to Chrysler know

1 (1h 12m 57s):
their count was wrong.

2 (1h 12m 59s):
One of their sales should not have been

1 (1h 13m 0s):
counted in October which means that they did not

2 (1h 13m 3s):
have cars like they thought they had only 129 exactly 129 which means yes it was Bob Teague and his very last day of the month that took him

1 (1h 13m 14s):
across the finish line

2 (1h 13m 16s):
Bob T Save the Day special thanks to Mark Bradley even the entire staff at Town & Country Jeep Chrysler Dodge Ram and Levittown in the seven years since we first broadcast Today show lots of Staff of moved on Bob t worry and Freddie are still there most everybody else is gone Jason is a manager these days at one time two countries competitors Mark the owner told me that they shut down for a while for Coronavirus but reopened in the middle of may have to wear a mask practice safe social distance in the showroom of course when You already said business exploded.

2 (1h 14m 0s):
That was the word. He used exploded people are buying cars so many cars that his biggest problem is he does not have enough inventory because car plants were shut down in June. He sold 190 Vehicles the Mark told me during the pandemic Chrysler got rid of the quotas Today's Show is produced by Robin semi and myself with Alex blumberg Ben Calhoun Sarah Koenig Nikki meet Jonathan menjivar, Brian Rita was ship and Nancy Updike our senior producer for this episode was Julie Snyder mat. Kearney's are Technical director production help for this rerun from nor Gail and stone Nelson our website this American life.org. This American life is over the public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange for This American Life comes from Life way Foods makers of America's best-selling keeper known as the champagne of dairy keeper is a culture too tart and tangy drink filled with vitamin D protein and 12 live and active probiotic cultures because I play Foods loves your guides more at lifewave Foods.com.

1 (1h 14m 58s):
thanks as always to our problems co-founder mr. clean al-attiyah on a vacation this month in Rome he stood in line for three hours three

2 (1h 15m 5s):
hours at the Coliseum gave up went back to his hotel this point the Romans will think they have one let them taste victory don't worry he'll be back I'm Ira Glass we also will be back next week with more stories at This American Life

1 (1h 15m 40s):
next week on the podcast of This American Life China has passed its new National Security Law for Hong Kong which makes all kinds of protests into a crime the potential life sentence our program went to Hong Kong this past fall and this week we go back to one of the protesters we spend time with the doctor about what the new law means for her and how she sees her future is not good that's next week on the podcast on your local public radio station