0 (1s):
Hey there everybody. IRA glass here is our show is 25th anniversary and a to commemorate that we're putting eight favorite episodes into our podcast feed. And here's one of them. This is a, this is from the year 2000 is from the year. So long ago that the person at the center of the show, David Sedaris still smoked. David was on our show so often in the early years of the show, but he was always reading his stories. I think this is the only episode where it actually interview him and we chat on tape and you hear this other side of him where he's just talking though, I have to say is not very far from who he is in his books, but you see the same person in his new collection, the best of me or in the book, me talk pretty one day, which is the book where he writes the most about living in France, which is what this episode is about.

0 (47s):
Anyway, here's the shell. It's a gray rainy day in Paris, a soaking line of tourists. Weight's on the grounds of an old medieval palace. Now one of the most famous museums in the world, but David Sedaris and this nearby sit David's story. So explain where we are.

1 (1m 3s):
We're at the Lu and this is the closest I've ever come. I've never set foot and never set foot inside of the loop. So you've lived in Paris for hella two years and I still haven't visited. I didn't see the point, my come to Paris and go to the one place where you're not allowed to smoke. As a matter of fact, it's my goal to be the only person who's come to Paris and has never stepped foot in the live. You live. How far from here? I'll probably about a 12 minute walk, 15 minute walk from the loaf, but I'm close to Notredame too, but I've never gone in there either.

1 (1m 51s):
Then it just doesn't interest me. I mean, I think so many people come here and they feel like they have to do certain things because somebody told them to do what are the you're going to go home? And people would say, what do you mean? You didn't see the Pantheon? What do you mean? You didn't go into the loop? So I'm guessing that a good number of these people are just standing here because somebody told them that they should do it like that. And I don't think that there are all the museum goers at home. I don't know. Do people like to look back and remember the experience of standing in front of a painting and it might remember eating something or buying something or seeing something like an accident or somebody who is really twisted up in some way, but not looking at a painting, maybe I'm wrong.

1 (2m 36s):
I mean, maybe this disqualify this for them. It doesn't get any better than this, but I don't know. I just, from people that I know that have come here, they go to a loop because somebody told them that they have to today in our radio program where you might go in Paris instead of the move, I spent three days with David who writes a

0 (3m 0s):
Lot about what it's like to live in France. We never saw the Eiffel tower or the Rodin museum with the famous cemetery where Marcel Proust and Jim Morrison are buried, no historical sites, nothing having to do with the culture or language of the people of France. But if you want to know the best place to buy a model, if a rotten tooth or a collection of leeches or a size replica of a human head with the top cutoffs, you can see what's inside. David did show me that

1 (3m 25s):
This is a pretty good medical supply store. Like these body parts that they have here, they're handmade and hand painted, and they're not nearly as expensive as you would think that there would be like I got in my sister, Gretchen our stomach, our backbone, I got her a backbone made out of paper and the Shea for Christmas. And I think it probably costs about $60, which was the end is a great price for a back bumper

2 (3m 52s):
<inaudible>

0 (3m 57s):
Today on our program. Americans In Paris and how our Paris. Sometimes it has very little to do with the one familiar to the locals from WB easy Chicago it's This American Life am I a reclass? The French government says that three and a half million Americans visited Paris last year, the U S government says it was more like two and a half million, either way. It is a lot more than the actual population of Paris, which is 2.1 million Americans have dreamy and romantic ideas about Paris, more than other places. I think in 1944 at the liberation of Paris from the Nazis Eby white road, probably one of the dullest stretches of prose in any man's library is the article on Paris in the encyclopedia Britannica.

0 (4m 39s):
You know, when we heard the news of liberation being unable to think of anything else to do it, we sat down and read it straight through from beginning to end Paris we began Capitol of France under the department of Sam situated on the <inaudible> that you sent Hawaii and the yoga VA in the sand, as well as on both banks or the sound the way it seemed like the beginning have a great poem feeling of simple, all overtook us. As we slowly turn the page and settle down to a study of the city's weather graph and the view of the sand looking East from Notre Dom, the rainfall is rather evenly distributed, continue in the encyclopedic, evenly distributed. We thought to ourselves like the tears of those who have Paris, but what is it actually like in Paris?

0 (5m 23s):
Really? Without the Rose colored glasses, if you're an American, well, our This American Life team headed overseas to find out. And let's just pause for a minute. What exactly does that sound like? You wonder, well, here's the recording?

2 (5m 37s):
What would you like to take a guided tour? No, no, no, we're not tourists. We look like there's people who run around gaping all day, just the cat on a stand. I didn't want to come in to Paris to work. My suggestion is that we all go straight to our hotel and get some rest. I, for one I'm exhausted

0 (5m 54s):
One of our program today, him talk pretty three days. David Sedaris gives me and you a walking tour of his favorite places in the city that he calls home act to Savi American. In which we try to answer the question. What is it that some Americans In Paris anyway, what is the draw at three notes of a native daughter? Why it helps sometimes to pretend your French accent is worse than it really is and why it's harder to cut into a movie line in Paris than in New York and whether it is the same for African-Americans these days and Paris as it was in the heyday of James Baldwin in Sydney Bishay answers stay with us.

2 (6m 34s):
<inaudible> <inaudible>

0 (6m 48s):
Heck won him talk pretty three days, two years ago at the age of 41, barely speaking, French David Sedaris moved to Paris. He had no special feelings about France, no particular interest in the French. It'll be the same. If it's Korea. He said to me the sentence that I think if the French ever heard that he said it, they would deport him. He moved for two reasons. One, his boyfriend, Hugh had to run down house enormity and two Y not. And over the course of two years, he's written extensively about his experience and stories for the radio, for magazines and for his newest book in his stories, David portrays Life in Paris as a series of humiliations and near humiliations.

0 (7m 30s):
And if you hang out with him for a few days, you realize he is not exaggerating much.

1 (7m 37s):
This is my worst nightmare right here.

0 (7m 39s):
If you barely gone three blocks from his apartment on our walking tour in Paris, when he stopped on the sidewalk,

1 (7m 45s):
Okay. My lighter has run out of fluid fluid, which would mean that I would have to ask somebody if that for a match. And so what I would say is, hello, do you have some fire? But and I so hate saying that, that I usually carry like For lighters on me. So I'm always have a backup digging into a bag,

2 (8m 5s):
You know,

1 (8m 8s):
Extra cigarettes. I know I must have a lighter in here. I will not spend the afternoon asking people if they have fire.

2 (8m 14s):
<inaudible>

0 (8m 23s):
I was curious about David's thoughts about Paris precisely because he was never somebody who had any special feelings for the place. He didn't move here with his head full of Ernest Hemingway and Gertrude Stein and Sartre Proust. He was a blank slate and sat for several hours every day. It was in Paris. David would walk me to the places he finds most interesting. And the first thing I learned was This, it is so traumatic to learn a new language that a lot of David's experience of the city, a lot of his personal geography of Paris has to do simply with where people are cruel to him when he speaks

3 (8m 57s):
And where they aren't.

1 (8m 58s):
This is a hardware store where the owner and the people who work there are really, really nice to me. I buy things here all the time. I buy things that I don't even need, just because they're so kind. And they generally just start laughing, right? When I walk in the door and then the owner will call his assistants out of the back room and say, he's back, he's back. And I buy things like a, bought a heating element. For that's what I could make ti in my hotel room. Cause I had to go to Germany so I can go in and say, hello. I am looking for a stick that make the water hot hot today. So I say like really stupid things when I go in there.

1 (9m 38s):
But I, I only say it in French, but there are incredibly good sports. I bought an ironing board and I was able to say, hello. It is been three weeks. I bought an iron. Now today I look for a table. It might work with my iron, Oh, have you such a table? And he said, Oh, and ironing board and went and got went on to the back. But he's really, really nice. And it's a place I can always count on where somebody is going to be good to me.

4 (10m 6s):
Do you want me to walk in to the hardware store or do you need anything? Do they sell batteries? Could you get me some double a batteries for the, for the camera in it, for our pet,

3 (10m 17s):
It's a tiny store. Just enough room for a few customers to stand on a story that's taller than it is wide with shelves full of merchandise, running up to the ceiling. Plus brooms, feather, dusters baskets, simply hanging over our heads to be retrieved by a hook on the end of a stair

4 (10m 31s):
<inaudible> <inaudible>

1 (10m 38s):
Can you just use a layer as a designee? Jesse Manami in favor of document. Our me the Magee registrate too.

3 (10m 48s):
This is my boyfriend. David says, I'm trying to say, this is my friend. He has making a documentary of my life. He tapes everything.

1 (10m 57s):
<inaudible>

3 (11m 5s):
BPAY the small talk and we're back on the street, less than a minute and a half.

1 (11m 9s):
See that's what's so nice about that guy. All right. I went in and he said, I haven't seen you for a long time. Have you been on vacation? And that just the worst of the world to me, that is so incredibly nice for somebody to, to notice your absence.

3 (11m 23s):
Some shopkeepers don't notice him. He'd been buying his newspaper from the same woman in his neighborhood, seven days a week for over a year, every single day, she said to him out of the blue, are you a tourist here on vacation?

1 (11m 35s):
And I said, I have been coming here and buying my newspaper every day for the last 19 months. No, I'm not on vacation. I have an apartment around the corner, but it took a, took that long for her even to acknowledge that she had seen me before, but that's why I go there every day. I was waiting for that moment for her to recognize me,

3 (12m 11s):
We're going to a chocolate shop and a bookstore and a cafe and each place we'd go. If this is a little conversation, just a normal smalltalk. And it goes, okay, he's really delighted and can recite it all from me afterwards. Line by line. When you first moved here, when his French class wasn't going so well. And he was constantly being scolded by people, not understanding the simplest things, directions, prices, but the proper change. People here are crazy about exact change. He swears to me, he realized at some point that he could make it all feel better. If he transformed himself from the inept foreigner to the inept foreigner, with a charge card,

1 (12m 46s):
People will be really nice to you if you spend a lot of money. So then I just started going out and buying things. You have a bad day in school. I had to go out after school and by a desk or like pricey lamps because people were unfailingly nice. While I was writing out that check and I would say the most screwed up thing. And they would say, Oh, you speak so well. And it would compliment me and I would feel so good. And then I would leave. And I would think, wait a minute, it took a while to get that under control. So I feel like you, like, just like observing your day as an outsider.

1 (13m 29s):
I feel like you've put yourself into this position where the smallest human acts of kindness have turned out to mean so much to have, whereas before they were things that I didn't really think about, it doesn't take much to make me happy now, whereas before I feel like it took quite a bit. Is your experience here at more of a feeling of adventure or more of a feeling of humiliation? Its more a feeling of humiliation. It would be a feeling of an adventure if I were a different type of person, if I were a more adventurous person, but like for me to get on a train and go to Switzerland, I don't think, Oh good.

1 (14m 22s):
I get to have an adventure. I think, Oh great. I get to make an ass out of myself and to different languages. That's what I wind up doing in Germany. They always include breakfast with your hotel and I'm not a breakfast eater, but I want a cup of coffee or something. And we stayed at This. I stayed at the, at a hotel in Germany. I don't remember the town the last time I was there. And so I go downstairs to have my breakfast and there's six people seated at the table and usually they've got lots of tables, but here there's only one table and I'm thinking, well, I don't really want to sit with six people, but if I turn around and leave and they'll think that I'm being rude.

1 (15m 4s):
So I've gotten this far. So I have to sit down at the table with these six people. So I pull out a chair and the man says something to me in German. And I say, Oh no, just a coffee from me. I'm fine with that. And what he was trying to tell me was that I was in his kitchen. This was the kitchen of the owner. And this was the owner of the hotel in his and his family sitting down to breakfast. I just saw this door and I opened it and I was in their quarters and then he had to go and wake up his nine-year-old. And so it was nine year old come and explain to me in English that in fact the dining room is downstairs. So I don't see that. And so I didn't see it as an adventure. It just happened.

0 (15m 45s):
David moved here at a particular moment in his life. After years of making his living, cleaning apartments or carrying furniture, he finally had published books, made the best seller list. It was on the radio, went on tours and filled 2000 and 5,000 seat halls. The people who wanted to hear him read. And I think most people are built to take only so much of that to have people think that we're somebody, I think for most people, for people who are not hopeless egomaniacs, there is a normal balancing that has to happen. I believe in that there was somebody to believe in that they're a, nobody, there there's a ratio, a balance that has to happen in most people's heads. I've known David for 10 years.

0 (16m 26s):
And I think what happened to him is that the somebody side of that equation got crazily, inflated, fantastically inflated. And so the nobody side had to hyperinflate the catch-up had to balance out of a nation of books, buying adults who is going to tell him how great he was back home. He needed an entire second nation of adults reminding them that really how important was it?

1 (16m 48s):
And that's exactly the case. And when I do go back, it's not like going from, I don't know, having an audience to being anonymous. It's beneath, I mean, it's, it's beneath the planet of the apes. That's going from having an audience to being, to being a foreigner, which is the lowest Life one. It has to be a foreigner. When you were a kid, where are you feeling? Humiliated? A lot. Yeah. I mean, I always had it didn't want to open my mouth because I left and I sounded like a girl. So it's no, it's a feeling that I'm used to. The really the feeling that I get here is more comfortable to me.

5 (17m 35s):
<inaudible>

0 (17m 39s):
One day David takes me to a cafe that he goes to all the time, often alone. And I'm surprised when he tells me that he is somebody who until recently had trouble going to a restaurant, a cafe by himself

3 (17m 51s):
Just to get a cup of coffee

1 (17m 53s):
Because I'm always afraid that they're not going to see me there. And then they'll just be stuck there. And other people will say, look, they're in the know one's weighted on that guy. And he's been there for half an hour and he doesn't know what to do with himself. I get terribly self-conscious in those situations. I mean to you, I'm not sure

6 (18m 9s):
Gary is that if I'm sitting in a restaurant alone, that, that they want see me, like, I assume that they'll see me and that the wait on me,

1 (18m 18s):
You know what I mean? It's

6 (18m 18s):
A business and they need the money. And so they'll usually wait on you.

1 (18m 22s):
No, but I'm always convinced that they don't see me and that they're not going to wait on me. It just seems to happen to me so many times in my life that I would go into a place. And then you have to pretend like you're living of your own violation. Like you've been waiting for somebody. And then you look at your watch and like don't But I guess are not going to show him not going to sit around here and wait any longer. And you make this whole, this whole little play that you do it. It really, nobody is watching it, but it's a very elaborate. And then you can get out, get up and leave.

6 (18m 49s):
Do you think he was like, what you were describing? It's like your sitting there and you think that other people are watching and such a way that they will think, Oh, that guy hasn't gotten waited on

1 (18m 57s):
It is, that's what I do. I'm looking at people like that. And I notice when it happens to other people and it's because I look at things like that, that I imagined than everybody else is. Okay.

2 (19m 7s):
<inaudible>

3 (19m 14s):
It turns out to be quite a burden to carry into a foreign country. If somebody does something stupid in front of him, David says, he goes home, writes it down. It tells his friends. Sometimes it turns it into a story that he reads in front of thousands or tens of thousands of strangers. And so when he says something stupid in French, which he does daily, he believes that it is possible. The shopkeepers or waiters just shrug it off. Never think about it again, but it seems just as possible that they go tell their friends and laugh at him.

1 (19m 42s):
That's why I get so embarrassed of the way that I speak. It's because I go home and I write everything down. That's the way I am. I assume that everybody else is that way as well.

2 (19m 52s):
<inaudible>

3 (19m 56s):
A lot of the places that David likes best in Paris. And it's like hopping from one discreet Island that David had already explored and found to be safe for human habitation, to the next discreet Island. I think this is the way that anybody gets to know any new city, especially a city where you do not speak the language. You try one place and then you try a second place and you return to those places over and over slowly, expanding your territory to gradually include more, a little spots that you return to the place is David takes me to it. You usually have one of these characteristics. They weren't fantastically unusual and interesting things to buy. They were places of a type which simply do not exist in the United States. They were places with a French was usually very simple.

2 (20m 36s):
<inaudible> at the presence of children.

3 (20m 45s):
It looks in Burke gardens. There is an old puppet theater where we a treasure of the sultans it's like watching an art form is sturdy and indestructible. As the cockroach, the slapstick, the medicine characters sneaking up behind our heroes, backs, everybody yells in warning.

1 (20m 59s):
Do you always comes a point where he hits somebody over the head with a stent and the kids just eat it up. Like when he starts hitting people at the stake, they go bananas. I've seen like, probably this is a fourth time. I've seen the treasure of those albums. I just like coming because it makes, it makes me so happy to be around people who is so happy

2 (21m 22s):
<inaudible>

3 (21m 27s):
After the princess is safe from the pirates. And the friendly tiger is rescued from a Savage jungle to come and live in Paris. We had outside of the carousel where six year olds are strapped onto a wooden horses and handed little wooden sticks play a game that dates to 16th century Europe, or possibly earlier a Justin game where they tried to spear a dangling ring while speeding by on horseback. David also, it takes me to one of the tiny mom and pop theatres in his neighborhood. The whole culture of movies is different in Paris with hundreds of theaters showing all sorts of movies, new and old,

2 (22m 1s):
I used to go place. You have him lavish.

3 (22m 6s):
David sees a movie every day in Paris. He also, it takes me to the flea market. That's open every weekend on the outskirts of the city. It's a sprawling Warren of booths, selling old paintings watches, and what a Mount to five centuries of coffee table decorations. We find a device in one store from the early days of telephones. It was just a paper cone, really designed to be attached to a telephone inside a theater. So your family at home could supposedly listen in on the concert or play over the telephone in defiance. I made ad of all the principles of proper microphone placement, but that wasn't the highlight of our flea market trip.

1 (22m 44s):
Whereas most places here, you know, people have their booth. And like I was here that I have shopping day before Christmas. Oh my God. That's judged Jodi. That's judge Judy with that white park on it. I love judge Judy. And that was her right there. Should we say something? You know, if you watch a show, you've got the idea that, you know, saying something bothering somebody like that is so inappropriate. That's what she does for a living is tell people that they're acting inappropriately. I can't believe that we saw her. I love judge Judy so much. I wish that she would run for mayor of New York.

2 (23m 25s):
<inaudible>

1 (23m 33s):
Wow. Judge Judy,

3 (23m 36s):
That your biggest celebrity, a setting in a while in Paris,

1 (23m 38s):
I saw a Catherine's the nerve, but judge Judy is bigger than Catherine Deneuve. As far as I'm concerned, this square up here, this is the Pantheon. And again, I've never been inside of it, but I know that all kinds of famous French people are in tune with here. Like, I don't know. I think Balzac's here. People like that, like really super famous writers, but I've never set foot inside, but I like the frozen grocery store. That's across the street from it.

0 (24m 20s):
The story is part of a chain. That's all over France called the P-Card. Everything they sell is frozen

1 (24m 25s):
And they've got this method for freezing them. I don't think we have in the United States, like they could freeze lettuce and they've got everything in there from me to frozen supes and spices, but it's not like TV dinners. You can buy a little packet of ostrich shops or have a horse mate or duck legs stuffed with prunes and sausage. And there's hole is just in plastic bags. So it's not, they taken a stigma on a frozen food. And every French person I've talked to swears by the store is especially people who have kids cause a food is really, really good. And if you opened one of these in the United States, you would just be minting money. You wouldn't be able to count the money fast enough.

1 (25m 7s):
I guarantee you, it, it would be such a huge success

0 (25m 12s):
Inside. It is exactly what you want when you're traveling and a foreign country, every object is familiar, but packaged and presented in a way that is pleasingly new and exotic. So it's all comprehensible, but at the same time, palpably foreign and the food's walk that disturbing, but fascinating on the foreign foods can have between looking delicious and looking frightening, snails pact in green stuff, in their shelves of many different sizes, coolers full of massive frozen crayfish. The glory they're about to come back to Life pre-made shishkabobs as a bucco, you pick up a few things and then down the Hill, we start with a regular supermarket for a quick run to the dairy case.

1 (25m 49s):
You screamed at me last night and he was so ashamed of the butter that we served during dinner. And he, he held this brand of butter right up to my face and told me I'm never, ever, ever allowed to buy it again. So I'm here to replace that butter we have. What kind of butter did you buy? It? It was This, but it's a grand jury brand of butter of Brittany. And I'm not allowed to buy that anymore. Why 'cause you said he was really picky about things like that. And he, he said, I saw the IRA putting that butter on bread and he, he had like four pieces of grand and I'm so embarrassed, but it was awful.

1 (26m 30s):
And I said, well, I don't really think that I was gonna go home and write in his little notebook dinner right here. And David's butter was terrible. That's what you wrong. My friend

3 (26m 46s):
Note to listeners, if you eat at home and David's avoid the butter, Rude, the Bach, we came a wooden spiral staircase to a store that's been in operation since 1831. The role which David calls, the Noah's Ark of taxidermy.

7 (27m 11s):
It is a kangaroo there. A moose, there is two wild boars and about five different varieties of monkeys, a hyena Paris zebras, a polar bear, a and M beautiful Oak case containing different reptiles, snakes and lizards. And this is an ostrich Astro, which is white nine feet tall. It's really magnificent.

3 (27m 45s):
We room after room filled with pigs and Mayans cats and dogs. The dogs were a specially <inaudible>. Some of them, according to the woman who runs the place is stopped by their owners. They have never had the heart to pick them up the price to buy an ostrich or a lion or gorilla is nearly $10,000 to rent them for two days. It's 420 bucks in American. Most of the business is rental. David is a magpie, black and powerful and sleek-looking and we head down to the street and you have things like This when you were a kid.

1 (28m 15s):
And my mother had an, a, a great aunt who was the only person in our family who really had any money. And she was married to a man who was a big game Hunter. And I only, she would come to our house to visit when we were young, but I only went to her house once. And it was right before she died and she had a trophy room and there were all kinds of animals and their extinct animals. There were snow leopards in there. There were a white tigers in their, and you would walk into this perfect room and there were a thousands of eyes staring at you. And I just thought, this is what I want. And that's the thing that I loved. And that's the feeling you get when you go in to day role, all of these creatures that are there are stuffed and poised to pounce that they're all staring at you, the same feeling you get from being in front of an audience.

1 (29m 8s):
It's the same feeling you get in front of an audience. You know, that people are looking at it, you know, but the, these are creatures that are looking at you. You know, that, feeling, that, feeling that then somebody is watching you.

3 (29m 25s):
Thanks about that. Feeling a lot, especially here in France, we wonder is what Parisian thing is to watch him speaking. So a bad way. It's not entirely so high that daily stage fright worrying about how to say every little thing, anxious and straining, to understand all the words around them,

1 (29m 44s):
Exact thinking that it makes me feel alive. And it makes me notice everything around me. When I become complacent, like I was in the United States, you know, you just get used to things. So you don't think about them. You don't do you think I'll get a cab? I'll go to the airport, I'll have a potty mouth, and you don't think about it. Whereas now with me, the anxiety starts early on and I'm always afraid that someone's going to throw me a curve ball and ask me a question. Like what sign or you just ask me a question like that out of nowhere and I'll appear foolish. So it, it keeps me on edge, but really that, that edginess has always made me feel alive.

3 (30m 27s):
Someday. David says they'll be more comfortable. And French, his accent will improve. And the daily anxiety will be removed from his house.

1 (30m 34s):
And by the way, it is removed from me. Then I probably won't be interested in living here anymore. I'll probably leave because it would be just like living back home. Plus the more you learn, the more disappointed you wind up being, it's easy to like somebody's when you don't know what they're saying. That's interesting. I hadn't thought about that. That that not understanding somebody makes them seem more interesting than they really are. I just assumed that everyone talked about books and movies all the time. That's all they talked about as far as I was concerned. And then I learned a little bit more than I realized that there are no different than people, anywhere else. They talk about the same financial things that we all talk about everywhere.

3 (31m 23s):
And at one point at the cafe, David goes to all the time we sit and watch a wait, or the David likes to watch, though. He barely there is to say a word to him the way it is in his mid forties, with the kind baggy face picture, the actor played the scarecrow in the wizard of Oz, Ray Bolger. And this is where it was kind of a cut-up. He hangs out with the regulars, making them laugh at this and that. That's what makes it fun to watch.

2 (31m 44s):
So you wonder though, when

1 (31m 47s):
You, where that guy lives or how much money he makes

2 (31m 50s):
Or he's married,

1 (31m 54s):
You know, you don't wonder about everybody, but you know, I've always wondered about that guy.

2 (32m 1s):
You think he makes his bed

3 (32m 4s):
And now things are good for David and Paris, he still feels curious about everything and then figuring out what it all means. And it makes everything so interesting all the time. The mystery has not ever been from everyday life. Ray Bolger, it takes a sip of wine. It was like a deal. When people drink,

2 (32m 21s):
You don't have a job

1 (32m 25s):
Behind a bar. He's drinking wine. I smoke the cigarette and he's picking his nose.

2 (32m 32s):
Those are three

1 (32m 32s):
Good races to let the presidents. I think

2 (32m 38s):
<inaudible>

0 (32m 46s):
Is a book about Paris is called me talk pretty one day, <inaudible> coming up public radio host, who does not speak French mangoes, more foreign words in a minute, Chicago public radio. When our program continues, I'm in a glass, it's this American life, the radio program that there has to ask the question <inaudible> after you, Madame, if I can lay my cards on the table at this point in the program, I have never understood why anybody cares so much about France.

0 (33m 38s):
I mean, it's fine. It's lovely. But it was just this thing that some Americans have for Paris though, as they were the first to admit it can be kind of ridiculous.

8 (33m 48s):
Well, when people ask me where I live in, I sometimes say Paris and they say, well, I mean, you live in Paris. I mean, But, but that's my dream.

0 (33m 56s):
Kristen Hohnadell has lived in Paris for five years,

8 (33m 59s):
You know, what do you live in Paris? And I said, well, you know, I, I just sort of want it to all the reasons you give sound really embarrassing, cliche and ridiculous at this point, I mean, Paris is a stale dream and, and it's kind of like falling in love with the most obviously cute boy in the class, or, you know, like the star of this are like a movie star. It's like being a groupie. And, and then you try to convince the other sort of 25 women who he slept with the last week. Well, you know, I really love him. And I think he loves me too. You know,

0 (34m 33s):
<inaudible>

8 (34m 38s):
Some people who come here and they sort of get off on that feeling of being, I think there are unusual because they put themselves in this position and to me, that's, that's really kind of awful. And I'm there.

0 (34m 51s):
Do you think a really special, yeah,

8 (34m 53s):
They think it makes them special to live here as if it's a, as if it's original and be a part of the horrifying thing about moving here, you know, it's, it's, it's a, a sort of disappointing experience to realize that your, your dream is so banal. I mean, this is a dream I had my whole life and it seems ridiculous to me now that it meant so much to me, it was so important.

0 (35m 18s):
<inaudible> I think about living a city, Kristin says, is that a city doesn't really love you back. Whenever I asked Americans who love France, what it was about France, it just got to them so much. When did it begin for them? Their feeling about France, they all talked about scraps, a French culture that made it to them when they were very young, the Madeleine books, the red balloon, French films, Montessori French class in grade school. I think there is still a part of America where the idea of Paris, Paris not a space program, are the internet or moving to New York city. Paris represents reaching a world outside oneself, which is a crime first started coming here as a teenager from a small town in Pennsylvania.

0 (36m 3s):
And this is essentially, it constructed an entire life around the feeling that he got in Paris. He went on to become a scholar and director of the romance studies department, Cornell university are, there are several books, eat fat and cigarettes are sublime, which are deeply suffused with a sensibility that is partly just un-American or anyway, semi Parisian, a sensibility that is all about the small pleasures of everyday life.

7 (36m 27s):
And, you know, the, in the French have a much more M much more complicated and much less guilty, a relationship to their body. I'm in the beginning with a sort of eating, I mean, not only the way they can have pleasure that they take and eating. I mean, the American notion it food is medicine. For example, it's totally repulsive to tell the French. And yet I increasingly, I mean, in America, I mean, that's all you hear. I mean, people will eat only as a function and what they think is good for them. And I mean, nobody in France, what are you strictly as a function of what it is good for them? I'll tell you that. I think really the heart of it was from me when I came here for the first time, it was like, Oh, there was the central marketplace, right in the heart of Paris.

7 (37m 13s):
So not far from wherever you are. And I remember I used to go there and not every night, but frequently. And then around two o'clock in the morning, you would kind of go out in the streets and a lay out, which was the central marketplace, and then used to bring all the food every night, crux would bring the produce and the food from all over France to the center of Paris to the heart of Paris display it in the stalls, sort of all. And on the streets, butchers were there with their sort of bloods, flattered coats, and people made gorgeous piles of artichokes and carrots and cabbages.

7 (37m 53s):
And, you know, in the us, it was two o'clock in the morning. And it was like, Life was just beginning at that hour. And people were there sort of buying, selling it. And then right next to the layout was while you send a note to send the knee was the, the, the center of prostitution in the past. And in the, the, the people who worked there would, you know, work until four or five o'clock in the morning. And then they would visit the prostitutes who are sort of there all night But. But this world, you know, I don't know if this is an incredible sort of Life and food and sex, and But

0 (38m 36s):
In the middle of one of the most beautiful parts and oldest parts of the Paris, what I used to be in the 19th century. But the biggest cemetery was sort of right. The Paris. If you walk around Paris with Richard, he's constantly pointing out spots that had special meaning to Louis the 14th, or there's a restaurant that happened to be one of the first restaurants ever built in France just after they began the idea of restaurants or the shops with a notion of putting big, huge windows on the front of store is probably began. So people could window shop. There is a lot of what is so pleasing about being in Paris is simple. It's a really interesting pleasing place just to walk around in a Christian home, tried last year to give back in the States again, she found she miss living in Paris, she missed all of that.

0 (39m 21s):
It be kind of hard to get ordinary things done. France. You always kind of an outsider here, even if the year's in the country, but you just feels better here. You know, you walk down the street in Los Angeles or you feel a lot. And I mean, that's a terrible example because it's Los Angeles, but you feel kind of twerked. And, and here, I just think he has, this is exactly. And this is how life should be at the pace, the, the scale, but the way it looks <inaudible> act three notes of a native daughter. Janet McDonald had already learn the language should already learn.

0 (40m 3s):
The culture, had a French friends in a French apartment. What something happened that made her realize how much she hadn't figured out.

6 (40m 9s):
I was going to the movies with a friend of mine, from Yale who is a black also. And like, there's a guy, there was a long line. And we were like, let's jump the line, these white people there going to be scared of us. We'll just go in and jump the line. We can get to the front of the line. So of course, you know, walks up up to the front of the line, like, yeah, you want to try me? I'm black. That usually works in New York. These people were ready to rip our hair out and they were white. I couldn't believe in. They were like in France, what are you doing? The lion star is back there. You can't just walk to the front of the line. They were like, ready to kick our butts. I was shocked. I'm like, these are white people and they're not scared of us.

6 (40m 53s):
That's when I realized I wasn't in Kansas anymore. And I liked it. I mean, of course it was kind of a humiliating because you know, where's supposed to be the intimidating, scary ones. And then like all of these, like French bitches in high heels are like threatening us. And they were in our face and it made me realize that the whole like black, white game just doesn't work outside of the United States. You swipe people. Aren't afraid of you here. And at the same time, they don't you because that sort of goes together.

6 (41m 36s):
So I'll, I'll take it. I'll wait online. Now. I don't dare jump Life. So that opened my eyes,

0 (41m 52s):
Janet and I are sitting in the cafe floor, one of the most famous and corneas and most pretentious settings in which to meet because it, in the dome, I go cafe next door, we're home to Sartre and Camus and Simone de Beauvoir. And when he first arrived in Paris in 1946, Richard Wright, who was well-known by them is the author of black boy and native son.

6 (42m 11s):
And now it's sort of a gathering place for like tourists and wannabes and nostalgic, fake French people, such as myself.

0 (42m 22s):
It's a classic old cafe on a corner with aging fixtures and plate glass windows onto the streets. Lovely, but not our name by the time Richard Wright arrived here, Josephine Baker had come scene in Concord. Black GIS had come in. Concord, jazz had simply conquered, right? Writing a letter. There is such an absence of race hatred, but it seems a little unreal. I wanted to talk to Janet because I wanted to find out if it was still that way for blacks in Paris, it didn't seem possible. And a half century, since those days, there's been an influx of black Africans to France and they are not beloved national front party with the slogan. France is for the French wins, 15% of the vote in national elections. Could it be possible that African-Americans still get a warm reception here?

0 (43m 5s):
Janet said, yes.

6 (43m 6s):
I'm not sure what it is. All I know is that it feels very different to be around French white people than American white people. Doesn't have, I feel much more comfortable. I feel that I'm not a black object.

9 (43m 22s):
Richard Wright, after arriving here in the mid 1940s, said that he felt that all of his life he'd been carrying a corpse with him. And when it came to Paris, you felt it slip off is back. Did you have a, did you have that kind of feeling?

6 (43m 34s):
Yeah, I really have to say that I have felt that way ever since I got here and a lot of my friends say, you know, why are you living there? In fact, a friend of mine went to law school with, he said, what is it about speaking French that makes white people not racist. He was very skeptical, but it really, it goes beyond that. It's, it's not just that we feel free of the burden of race because we're still black. I still experienced myself as black. It's just, if that's not like the center of my identity, it's not the first thing people relate to. When I meet them here,

0 (44m 19s):
Jennifer's came to Paris in 1975 and moved here in 95. She's a lawyer in the French office of a big American company. She grew up in the public housing projects in Brooklyn, worked our way in to Vassar college and go to graduate school and law school. Like a lot of people who make the jump from very poor crime-ridden neighborhoods into the college educated upper middle class. She felt like she didn't really fit in anywhere that with family and friends in the projects were shooting heroin, barely surviving. Now with the black students, she met in college,

6 (44m 47s):
You thought they were bourgeois Southern bells. I didn't want to be anything like that. And they didn't want to be like me either. They thought I was trash. I was project trash. I thought they were like, they put the bee in bushy. And so I grappled a lot with that. The racial identity, like what will my posture be? I'm from the projects. But you know, people say, I talk like a white girl and you know, then the white girl's are like, Oh, you're so project. And then when I got here, none of it mattered because if I spoke three words of French, that made sense, people liked me and they celebrated me. So I didn't have to worry about talking to like a white girl or a project girl or anything

0 (45m 27s):
And incredible relief. The central conflict of her life suddenly vanished in Paris, all the distinctions about what kind of black person she should be. They were all moot. In fact, the most distinguishing fact about Janet was not that she was black. It was that she was an American, which surprised her,

6 (45m 43s):
Associated the word American with, you know, white guys with flags on their lawns, who didn't particularly like me and people would call me American. And I'd say, I'm not a Mac. And I'm black. And these were like black French people were like, you are so American. And they, I remember these French West Indian friends of mine. This one in particular from Martinique was saying, you even walk like an American. I'm like, what are you mean? What does an American walk like? And she said, they kick their legs. When they walk, they kick their legs.

2 (46m 16s):
<inaudible>

6 (46m 20s):
I don't know. I tell my friends, cause I was in Brooklyn just a few weeks ago. And this woman who'd never been to Europe was saying, so what's it like, and in France, are they like, what are the people like? Are they prejudice? I said, no, they like us. It's like incredible a country full of white people. And like, they like us, but it's still, it's a difficult thing because they like us, but they don't like other people who look like us. And that's sort of the French paradox

0 (46m 50s):
Paris of course has its own housing projects in the suburbs that surround the city. Now with generations of Africans who were born on French soil, who faced job discrimination, housing discrimination,

6 (46m 60s):
And they're not well received, they're not welcomed and they are French. And so in a way for African we're in a very bizarre position, it's almost like being an honorary white in apartheid, South Africa

2 (47m 16s):
<inaudible>.

6 (47m 22s):
And I noticed that, you know, as my French got better and better, that sometimes I wasn't as well received as I would be. If I played up my American accent, when French people, if I walk into a shop and people would think I was just, you know, basically what I say, just Another just like one of their own, like from Martinique or Guadeloupe, it wouldn't be the same reception. If I like came on with a very heavy American accent or even spoke English,

0 (47m 49s):
How would they treat you if they, if they thought you were an African black,

6 (47m 52s):
Well, a little bit of a chill and the air like, you know, yes. May I help you? Not so much. Oh, was that a melee? Kin? Oh, I love the New York. I loved to speak English. So it's, it's very bizarre. It's a hard thing to reconcile because I mean, a good feeling is a good feeling. And when someone receives you and makes you feel good, Ew, it's a positive experience.

0 (48m 17s):
<inaudible> when you're in a shop and you can feel that there's a chilling the area and they think of you as an African, will you actually play up your American accent?

6 (48m 32s):
Well, what happened was I started experiencing that. And so I actually adjusted my, my speech so that, you know, at least I would get the benefit of like the, I mean, I'm here in this country. I want to get the benefit of being an African American. So instead of like walking in a wee Madame <inaudible>, I'd say we a CBO play <inaudible> Mayday.

0 (49m 2s):
Maybe, maybe I shouldn't do that. But it works. Yeah. And it works. <inaudible> a friend of Janet's has suggested to her that maybe Parisians preferred black people from America, 'cause only a certain class of black Americans usually comes to France, educated, cultured, interested in France. When Janet has to write a Cornell West about this, I had a speech he gave this summer in Paris. It was his argument.

6 (49m 33s):
Basically you suggested was a class thing. And they said, well, you know, you look at you, you're a professional. You are articulate. Maybe if you brought 15 of your cousins, it, it would be a whole different thing. So basically he was saying, if I brought all my like home girls from the hood, like who didn't go to Vassar and who weren't lawyers and who didn't speak French, you know, the reception might be a little chillier, even though they also are black American. But I think if that's true, that is not about racism and that's about it.

0 (50m 4s):
It was before I met you on it. I read the book that you heard about what it was like for her growing up. It's called project girl. And what's remarkable about it is how Frank she is. But all of the compulsive things that she found herself doing during the years when she was regularly traveling between the projects in the world of the aspiring upper middle class, there is a struggle. And a first year at Vassar, for instance, she felt so out of place that you started taking the train down to New York city to score heroin things you never even done. Once you lived in the projects until she got kicked out of school. For that, it is as if the further that she traveled into the world of college, the more the project side of her personality was compelled to express itself.

0 (50m 47s):
Somehow you have to picture yourself as somebody who is depressed and embattled. And so the last four years in the most striking thing about meeting her, if you've read the book is how completely happy she seems today. She's the one of the happiest many people I've ever met, just relaxed and funny. And at ease and her feeling about France, the country, where this transformation took place, it can be sort of shocking to actual French people.

6 (51m 12s):
And then we just went like a Euro 2000. I was a hike. I came to work and I was telling the Moroccan secretary, we won news, Evelyn gun. Yay. And she like, you know, just glares at me because she was born here. And she says, I'm not French. I'm a rock. And its just like black Americans I'm not American. I'm black. And I was like, we won, we won. And she was like, what are you talking about? You're not even French. What do you mean? We won? And I'm like, I'm French in my heart. And this black friend of mine was saying, you know, you're the only person I know who could sing the mouse saying is that

4 (51m 45s):
It shows like how extreme,

6 (51m 47s):
Who you are. You know why it's because I say to them, I never had a country.

4 (51m 52s):
I never had a country. I have like a hood. I had Brooklyn

6 (51m 56s):
And I never felt like I had a country. So now I have a country. It's a little one. You know, we always come in third or fourth place in the Olympics, but it's like France.

2 (52m 8s):
<inaudible>,

0 (52m 15s):
Here's something else. There are certain things about French culture. Jen says that, just make life here. Very pleasant. One thing people don't ask you personal questions where you grew up, where you work, what your family life, what your story. You're not constantly explaining yourself. She says she has one friend who she knew for five years before she knew this woman had a grown son. Also there isn't the same striving. The same ambition to be. Number one is in the States, especially compared with a corporate law job. She used to have, everybody is expected to put in 60 and 70 and 80 hours a week here that would be seen as very strange work just is not that important to most people.

6 (52m 52s):
I got to get tears in my eyes. Just like sometimes I look around the subway and I look at all of these French people. I'm like, thanks.

4 (53m 0s):
Can you for letting me live here in your country?

0 (53m 7s):
We had outside.

4 (53m 10s):
But you feel like it's your country But but your identity here, isn't that of a French person. It's out of an outsider. I know. And I think that's what it is to be project girl. I was always an outsider and I feel most inside right now where I'm most outside. Go figure. That's what freedom is though. It's not about nothing left to lose. It's about nothing left to be. You don't have to be anything. I was, I was just thinking about it this morning. It's like, I'm an outsider.

4 (53m 50s):
I will always be a foreigner. No matter how good my French gets, I will never really be French. No matter how much of a wannabe I am. And yet I feel that I'm home. I'm just home

3 (54m 6s):
Around the corner from the cafe floor. That's where the author James Baldwin lived for awhile. Janet says she feels like she understands a little about how you must've felt coming from Harlem, from a family that was always struggling. And then arriving here. Everything is so pretty and so much easier than home.

4 (54m 20s):
Here we are. This is where James Baldwin lived with that painter 56 <inaudible> but see, he lived way up in the top. On the top floor, they chose say one, two, three, four, fifth floor, obviously a walk-up and the cheapest apartments are always on the top because you have to walk father. And that's where he was. Wow. He probably even mailed letters at that post office down there, emailed letters back to Harlem. Hey, and here we are.

3 (54m 57s):
And then of course decided to settle in France permanently. And when Janet first move to Paris, she thought it would just be for a few years. Now, every time she goes home, she sees too much about the United States that she just does not want to deal with anymore. And she's realizing she may never move back.

4 (55m 13s):
<inaudible>

3 (55m 26s):
Well, our program is produced today by Susan Burton and myself, a vet Julie Snyder, Bush 70 and Alex Bloomberg contributing editors for today's program. Paul tough Jack hit Mark you rock on Ollie, speak on Nancy update and constantly Gary serval, additional production help. When I rerun from the Viva, the cornfield Jessica Wesson, hopper, Catherine Raymondo, Stowe Nelson and Matt Tierney today's program was first broadcast in the year 2000. You can no longer smoke indoors all over Paris. And I hate the fact that if, to say this, Janet McDonald, the writer of project girl, who is so wonderful and the third act of the show and who I kept in touch with after the program, she died in 2007, the age of 53, her book is still available. Eric's a team. Music was played for us in the accordion by Dean ocher, Jed ABIM lab recorded them.

3 (56m 10s):
How their musical help today came from the amazing John Conners, Nikki Rinkus and cabby Bergquist special. Thanks to date is Stephen Barkley, author of the book, a place in the world called Paris and to James Campbell, whose book eggs out and Paris was a useful summary of all of the facts surrounding Richard and James Baldwin. Two years in Paris as a thanks to Sandrine Bustelo and Catherine and Johnstone on our website. This American life.org. This American life was a little bit of public radio stations by PRX. The public radio exchange next is always to a program's co-founder mr. <inaudible>. Who reminds you? Don't forget. Please learn from the experiences of others in it right here when David's butter was terrible. That's right. I'm on a glass back next week with more stories of this marriage

2 (56m 52s):
<inaudible>.