0 (1s):
It's American life. Last week, Russell Banks died. He was a novelist and a short story writer that we loved having on our show now and then over the years his stories document everyday life like documentaries do, but with the punch of fiction. And what we're gonna do today is we're gonna rerun one of the episodes he was in just to commemorate him and that this is an old show. It's kind of a special show. It's a live show that we did for our program's fifth anniversary over 20 years ago. Here it is when the big day finally arrives, the day you've been waiting for. It's like the invisible is made visible and sometimes you look at it and you think that's it.

0 (42s):
For weeks before his 11th birthday, Jason wanted to party at a roller rink with all his friends. He never had a birthday party. So he invites 11 friends, gets their RSVPs and comes the big day. The party room at the roller rink is

1 (54s):
His. And we waited around, we waited around and we're waiting there for around a half hour. And, and none of my friends had, none of the invited guests had had arrived. And so they put us in the room and my mom asked me, what, where, where is everybody? Where is everybody? And saying Why? I don't know where everybody is. Well, didn't they say they'd be here? They, they said they'd be here. All I have, I have this vivid, vivid image marked on my brain of, of a table and 10 chairs around the table and all of these Sundays, these white sundaes with hot fudge on on 'em, 10 empty chairs, 10 uneaten Sundays.

0 (1m 40s):
It's like the last supper, you know? But if none of the apostles made it

1 (1m 45s):
Exactly

0 (1m 50s):
To this day, Jason still cannot explain it. He had friends at school. He was always picked first for kickball. The next year. His cat, a cat that was the same age as he was died on his birthday another year, his aunts and uncles accidentally set fire to the back of his house. In preparing for today's program, I have heard lots of horrifying birthday stories. Matt was robbed on his birthday wind's home was destroyed by an earthquake. Sarah had a tree that was planted the day she was born and on her 17th birthday, lightening hit the tree. It burned to the ground. How do you not see that? It's symbolic of something. Years after Jason's party at the Revel rink, the one where nobody showed up, his girlfriend still asked him about it and she asked him about it a lot.

0 (2m 36s):
It must explain something about who he is today.

1 (2m 39s):
And I have to point out again that I, I, I don't think at least that I was a loser when I was growing up. But the thing is, as much as I say that, that it happened, I had this birthday party that only one person went to and that that's gonna hold stronger than anything that I could possibly say to convince her that I was not a loser.

0 (3m 2s):
Certain days have symbolic meaning whether we want them to or not. That's why it's important, I think, to overcompensate to go big. Throw a huge party, surround yourself with people, make a lot of noise. That is why my friends today on the fifth anniversary of our radio show, we have come out here to be with you in this huge theater from W B E Z Chicago and Public Radio International. It's this American Life. I'm Ira Glass.

0 (3m 43s):
Our program recorded today on a four city tour of New York, Boston, Chicago, and Los Angeles. A co-production with radio stations, W N Y C W B U R W B E Z and Casey are a w. Many, many thanks to them today on our program, birthdays, anniversaries, milestones of all sorts and what do they really mean anyway, act one, pilgrim's Progress. Sarah Val takes over the family Thanksgiving dinner by bringing everyone to New York City babies crying birds, a Diane People's Scion, Ellis Island Island. Back to Kodak Moments of the Dead.

0 (4m 24s):
The story of a young funeral director who is updating one of our most sacred and oldest rituals of commemoration doing something that even other funeral directors find. Very, very strange Act three birthday gift. Russell Banks has a story that unfolds so cleanly and pleasingly that really I have to say, the less said about it at this point, the better music throughout our hour from Chicago Pop Music sensation. Okay, go stay with us. Act one, Pilgrim's Progress.

0 (5m 5s):
We are a nation whose national holidays are usually more about getting together with family and friends than actually commemorating the past When Labor Day rolls around, I do not think that many of us review the history of Haymarket Square or the fight for the eight hour workday. Even in this crowd, I will confess that I was actually well into my twenties before I fully understood that Veterans Day and Memorial Day are actually two separate holidays with separate meanings and not just one holiday that comes around a lot. This does not mean that our big national holidays do not contain deep commemorative meaning to us. It's just that I think that the meaning is often personal.

0 (5m 46s):
Sarah Val is one of our contributing editors. She says this year her family broke with all its traditions on Thanksgiving and launched into an entirely new era as a family. Please welcome her.

4 (6m 7s):
When I invited my mom and dad to come to New York City to have Thanksgiving at my house, I never expected them to say yes. Not only had they never been to New York, they had never been east of the Mississippi, nor had they ever visited me. I've always had these fantasies about being in a normal family in which the parents come to town and their adult daughter spends their entire visit daydreaming of suicide. I'm here to tell you that dreams really do come true. I was terrified we wouldn't have enough to talk about. In the interest of harmony, there's a tacit agreement in my family.

4 (6m 50s):
The following subjects are best avoided in any conversation longer than a minute and a half. National politics, state and local politics, any music by any person who never headlined at the Grand Ole Opre. My personal life and there are so-called God five whole days when I visit them back home in Montana. Conversation isn't a problem because we go to the movies every afternoon. That way we can be together but without the burden of actually talking to each other.

4 (7m 32s):
Tommy Lee Jones does the talking for us. Bless his heart, that is a public service. But my sister, Amy, is bringing her, shall we say lively seven month old son Owen along. So the cinema is not an option, which means five days together, just us no movies. We are headed into uncharted and possibly hostile lands pioneers in a new world. It is Thanksgiving. The pilgrims had the Mayflower. I buy a gravy boat. It's lucky that Amy's coming with mom and dad. Amy still lives six blocks away from them in Bozeman. She would act as interpreter and go between among my parents and me.

4 (8m 16s):
Like Squanto, Amy's husband, Jay has decided to stay home in Montana to go deer hunting with his brother. Everyone else arrives at my apartment in Chelsea. Amy and Owen are bunking with me, so I walk my parents around the corner to check them into their hotel. On 23rd, here we are, says Mom, stopping under the awning of the Chelsea Hotel. There she stands, a woman whose favorite book is called Simply Matthew. Right on the spot where the cops hauled Sid Vicious out in handcuffs after his girlfriend was found, stabbed to death on their hotel room floor.

4 (9m 6s):
No mother, I say taking her arm and directing her down the block to the Chelsea Savoy. A hotel where they go to the trouble to clean the rooms each day It is around this time, oh, 20 minutes into their trip that my dad starts making wisecracks like, boy kid bet you can't wait till we're outta here. My father, a man who moved us 1600 miles away from our Oklahoma relatives so he wouldn't have to see them anymore, makes a joke on average every two hours he is here about how much I'm anticipating. The second they'll say goodbye. I find this charming, but so disturbingly true.

4 (9m 46s):
I don't know what to say. By halfway through the first day, I discover I didn't have worried about what we would talk about with the baby. Preventing us from seeing movies when you have a baby around the baby is the movie. We occupy an entire entertaining hour just on drl, non-narrative drl. Then there's the sight scene. First stop Ellis Island. The thing about going to Ellis Island is that it's a lot like going to Ellis Island perhaps to help you better understand the immigrant experience they make you stand in line for the crammed ferry for an hour and a half in the windy cold.

4 (10m 38s):
By the time we step onto the island, we are huddled masses yearning to be free. Our great grandmother, Ellen, passed through here on her way from Sweden. We watch a video on the health inspections given to immigrants, walk past oodles of photos of men in hats and women in shawls. Now no one says anything. I know my father and mother and sister are thinking what I'm thinking. They're thinking about when we moved away from Oklahoma to Montana, how unknown that was, how strange and lonesome. I read a letter in a display case that says, and I never saw my mother again and I think in my grandfather, how we just drove off leaving and behind, waving to us in the rear view mirror.

4 (11m 25s):
And here we are in New York because here I am in New York because ever since Ellen's father brought her here, every generation moves away from the one before. It is curious that we Americans have a holiday Thanksgiving that's all about people who left their homes for a life of their own, choosing a life that was different from their parents' lives. And how do we celebrate it? By hanging out with our parents. It's as if on the the 4th of July we honored our independence from the British by playing cricket and nibbling on crumpets.

4 (12m 6s):
Thanksgiving morning my parents take Owen to see the Macy's parade while Amy and I start making dinner. Let me repeat that. My mother leaves while I cook. Specifically cornbread, dressing a dish my mother has made every Thanksgiving since before I was born. To her credit, she has not inquired about my process since she phoned to ask me if she should bring corn meal in her suitcase. As an Okie, my mom only uses white corn meal processed by the Shawnee Company in Muskogee. She does not even consider my cornbread to be cornbread at all because I make it with yellow corn meal and heresy sugar.

4 (12m 49s):
You don't make cornbread. She told me in the same deflated voice she uses to describe my hair, you make Johnny cake. I'm standing at the cutting board chopping sage and it hits me what it means that she's letting me be in charge of the dressing. I am going to die. Being in charge of the dressing means you're a grownup for real. And being a grownup for real means you're getting old and getting old means you are definitely finally totally going to die.

4 (13m 33s):
My mother is a grandmother and my sister is a mother, and I have decided the dressing will be yellow this year. Therefore, we'll all be dead someday. Happy holidays. I have invited two of my New York friends to join us for dinner and I was a little nervous about how everyone would get along. To my delight, the meal is smooth and congenial. My friends and I talk about the West Nile virus killing birds on Long Island. My father counters with a lovely anecdote about an open copper pit in Butte that filled up with contaminated rainwater and killed 250 geese in one day.

4 (14m 17s):
There's nothing like eating one dead bird and talking about a bunch of other dead birds really bring people together. The next morning right about the time Owen starts to cry, while simultaneously my mother jams the bathroom door and my father's on his hands and knees prying it open with a pen knife, a cloud passes over me. Once or twice a day, I am enveloped inside what I like to call the impenetrable shield of melancholy. This shield, it is impenetrable, hence the name I cannot speak.

4 (14m 59s):
And while I can feel myself freeze up, I can't do anything about it. Everybody in the family goes through these little spells. I just happen to be the spooky one at this particular moment. When people ask me if I'm the black sheep of the family, I always say that no, we're all black sheep. Every few hours they're here. I look over at my dad nervously crunching his fingers together. If he were at home for Thanksgiving, he'd be ignoring us and spending all his time in his shop. The thing that unites us is that all four of us are homebody claustrophobic who prefer to be alone and are suspicious of other people.

4 (15m 39s):
So the trait that binds us together as a family preferring to keep to ourselves makes it difficult to be together as a family. Paradoxically, it's at these times that I feel closest to them, that I understand them best, that I love them most. It's just surprising we ever breed the next day. We do the most typical thing we could possibly do as a family. We split up. By the time we all reconvene on Saturday evening, my ragged mother becomes so ambitious with her sight seeing that I can tell she's decided that she's never coming back.

4 (16m 21s):
You guys wanna go to Rockefeller Center? I ask and she says, yeah, because who knows when I'll be back again. Ditto the Empire State Building because who knows when I'll be back again. If any of you are visiting the Empire State Building, may I offer some advice? If you are waiting in the very long line for the very last elevator and an attendant says that anyone who wants to walk up the last six flights may do so now right away and you are with your aging parents and a sister who is carrying a child the size of a fax machine, Stay in line for the elevator.

4 (17m 4s):
But if you must take the stairs, go first and do not look back. Otherwise, your parents will look like one of those renaissance frescoes of Adam and Eve being expelled from the Garden of Eden. All hunched over and afraid. So we make it to the observation deck, Brooklyn to the south of us, New Jersey to the west, places that people fled to from far away places that people now run away from to make another life. It's dark and cold and windy and we're sweaty from climbing the stairs.

4 (17m 46s):
It's really pretty though. And there we stand side by side sharing a thought like the family we are. My sister wishes she were home. My mom and dad wish they were home. I wish they were home too. Thank you.

6 (19m 12s):
It's just as if it was discontent.

6 (19m 57s):
I'd see I'll live with the and pull my hair cause lunacy is everything I need.

0 (20m 12s):
Okay, go. Act two Kodak moments of the dead. Not long ago one of our producers Starley kind went to the funeral of a relative of hers in Los Angeles. There were four eulogies ending with Star Lee's grandmother, Goldie, who did a grand stem wind Irv a speech inspiring and moving and heartfelt. So Goldie finishes and sits back down between her 88 year old sister Viv on one side and Starley on the other. And then on a big TV screen in front of the chapel, a video begins. The grandmother cannot believe it. She nudges her sister Viv stage whispering, have

5 (20m 54s):
You ever

0 (20m 58s):
On screen, are pictures of the deceased black and white? On the beach is a young man, a wedding shot with his wife, the obligatory goofy shot of him in a dress with his buddies. The photos were selected by the family and set to a musical soundtrack, which was also selected by the family. These being Jews, my people, as you might guess, there is only one real choice about the music. Really no choice at all.

5 (21m 30s):
Barbara can't dream

0 (21m 36s):
Anti Viv audibly exclaims oi grandma. Goldie responds, OOI Viv. But here's the thing, people are crying. They're crying more than they cried during the eulogies. Later after the burial back at the house, everybody watches the video over and over. They laugh, they cry, they rewind, they replay. Barbara hasn't had a hit like this since Y. So I went to visit the cemetery where all this happens with the cost of a grave or a crypt, includes a personalized video to be shown at your funeral, to be posted for eternity on the internet, to be viewed on video screens scattered semi tastily throughout the cemetery grounds.

0 (22m 28s):
This whole scheme is the brainchild of the impossibly young and impossibly handsome. Tyler Cassidy and his brother brand, they grew up in St. Louis. Their dad was also in the funeral business and they bought a rundown Hollywood cemetery three years ago when H was 27 and renamed it Hollywood Forever. Funerals mind you present the same questions that any anniversary or milestone presents. How do you mark the passing of time? How do you capture the span of a life so we can be commemorated and remembered at? Tyler says that the way that most American funerals address this question is with a ritual and technology that have not really changed very much since the Civil War. The big innovation during the Civil War was embalming, embalming and preserved a person's body for a week or so, but you ship them home from a battlefield.

0 (23m 15s):
But during this civil war, it became widespread and it popularized this kind of funeral, the kind that we know today where the body is dressed up, put on display during the service.

7 (23m 25s):
We want to pump fluid into that body so it seems kind of life-like pink fluid and you want to paint the face a, a mortician feels like he succeeded if the family says, look, he looks so alive. Whereas our enhancement to that is that you show video of the person media. Media that in some way has captured life and that media is a hundred times stronger than an altered body. Our, our colleagues rebelled at the idea of having any type of screen in a chapel or near a body, and yet they were holding tight to this tradition of embalming and face painting and extreme doctrine of the body to try and make it look alive.

7 (24m 21s):
The moment we put a screen in there, from that moment on, there was always a huge increase in the emotion of that service. That's when you started to have everyone crying. That's when you started to have laughter, tears, celebration that screen. Once you put that in there, the the whole thing changed.

8 (24m 41s):
Good morning, good afternoon, good evening. Whenever you listen to this, you will hear the voices of your ever-loving mother and your dear father, normally known as mom and dad.

0 (24m 53s):
This is a video made of a kindly and endearing couple named Dorothy and Wester Schaffer. They're sitting on lawn chairs in their backyard. It's not bad. They're affectionate. They go to each other on they are genuinely funny. We here, for example, the story of how the Shaffers met on a school trip to the zoo.

8 (25m 9s):
Really on the path between the bear pits and the monkey case

9 (25m 14s):
Between the bear pits and the monkey cas. Well we started dating then and every time we'd have a date,

8 (25m 21s):
It rained. It rained.

9 (25m 23s):
I used to call her raindrop. Gosh,

0 (25m 26s):
As it turns out, in deciding to make videos which somehow capture what somebody is all about to preserve for eternity, power and his brother have accidentally stumbled on a rather difficult artistic project. You get a sense of the schaffers on their video, but only because of their own force of personality. They're charming. Most of the videos made of the cemetery lack this kind of character. So much so that it reminds you just how hard it is to do to capture somebody on film. At times your heart goes out to the people in the videos, for instance, when they're asked by the filmmakers to leave a message to the future. You can almost see the flop sweat from the other side. What would you say on the spot? Really this next clip is from a video made by a footish man who's actually still alive named Steve Goldstein, who was asked to leave a few words of wisdom to the future.

10 (26m 20s):
I guess if I had to say something along those lines, it would be the most important thing in life is to learn to love each other. Learn to get along and respect each other, respect each other's differences. Appreciate your differences. Celebrate your failures as much as your success is cuz that's how you grow. Can't succeed without failing.

0 (26m 36s):
He continues with aphorisms like this for a while. Ending with

10 (26m 40s):
My life's been great. I I have no regrets. I honestly have no regrets except for some mistake I made on a game show once a long time ago. I could've won a lot of money aside from that, I have no regrets

11 (26m 54s):
Doing these and it's kinda like a robot. They come, they go, I do the next one. It's kinda like, kinda like I'm a machine, I just do it. So our emotions are kind of gone.

0 (27m 6s):
Norman Brown is one of three editors who assemble these videos at computer works stations in a big high ceilinged room on the cemetery grounds. The feeling part of the job is done by women. Four women who talk with the families gather photos and give shot by shot instructions to the editors as video production goes. This is factory work. 90% of the videos are cut and paste jobs, just a series of photos which appear on screen for 10 seconds each with a pop song on the soundtrack, throwing together in a few hours after somebody dies to play at the funeral service. Often a family member narrates explaining what the pictures are. Do people ever say, you know, well my dad was a drunk.

11 (27m 45s):
No. Alright, any, nothing like that. Nothing at all.

0 (27m 49s):
We had a hard time seeing eye to eye. We didn't always get along. I think they were disappointed in me sometimes.

11 (27m 56s):
No, none of that. We don't get any, oh he was a drug addict. He was, you know, a unfit father and

0 (28m 3s):
He wasn't always faithful to my mom.

11 (28m 6s):
No, we have no affairs. Yeah, none of that. If you don't say yeah, he was, you know, a horn dog or anything. Just, you know, everything is positive.

0 (28m 18s):
Which seems to have to say completely appropriate to the occasion and the task at hand at any milestone event and an anniversary, a birthday, a funeral, even a national holiday. I think we do not want the whole picture. I think we want a pretty picture.

11 (28m 33s):
This is, I don't think we're dealing with honesty in this right here. This is not the whole, I mean you gotta look at the purpose of what, what is the purpose of you know, you're going to this funeral

7 (28m 41s):
At that moment, at that funeral moment, at that moment of death. We do want as much good as we can. We do want as many good memories of as we can.

0 (28m 51s):
Tyler Cassidy says that it's hard enough to get through the death of someone we love. Of course this is what we want. Tyler and his brother have only been making funeral videos for a few years and they definitely see it as a work in progress. Something that they're still figuring out. But all this thinking about how you preserve memories has led Tyler to start collecting his own scrapbooks, documenting his own life. He keeps two of these photo albums in his office and when I ask him to flip through the pages, he comes to one photo which leads him to tell this story. It's a story which starts off at a family vacation and ends up at this cemetery, at his job, at this video project.

0 (29m 33s):
The photo is of a fishing boat called La Victoria. Taken on vacation when Tyler was just a teenager.

7 (29m 38s):
And that's my father that you can make out there and unknown to me. My, my mother had found a letter from a girl I know and she was writing this long plea to me to realize that I wasn't actually gay cuz I had told her that I was gay. So for the first three days of this trip, everyone in the family was treating me as though I had died or something. They would just kind of like not speak directly to me. They were having difficulty looking at me. And so my mother concocted this plan to get my father and I on this all day fishing trip in which he was supposed to to ask me at a certain point.

7 (30m 22s):
And so here we are being all macho on La Victoria and he's

0 (30m 27s):
Supposed to ask you,

7 (30m 28s):
Are you guy? Yes on this, on this fishing expedition. Which was funny in itself because it's like this Hemingway as test of manhood to be out here and I actually was the one to get the giant tuna. I was reeling in the tuna. It was exactly as, as you see in the movies, it was really hurting my hands and people are gathering around me wanting me to reel this in and egging me on. And then I finally get it up and it's this big beautiful, huge tuna actually the one in this shot that's almost human sized and it was gorgeous and it, it falls on the, the floor and everyone got his run and stabs it. I shrie don't kill it.

7 (31m 10s):
It seemed like this very telling moment. And I don't know if that answered my father's question.

0 (31m 27s):
Tyler had moved to New York for college and stayed hardly to plea the family funeral business.

7 (31m 33s):
Yeah, it was kind of ironic. I thought I was going to leave death finally, you know, and the father's business who was, it was all around caskets and death and I went much deeper into the heart of death when I got there. I was gay and I went there to come out and New York seemed like a good place. But I arrived in 1988, which was kind of the, the apex or the heart of the epidemic. So the aids epidemic, the aids epidemic, it was, it was everyone was in mourning. Everybody knew someone was who was dying. There was always the the thought that, always the thought that we could be dying because everyone was.

7 (32m 29s):
And so I think for, you know, a good six years, I was more obsessed about dying and death than I'd ever been. And yet at the same time, there's more people who Didn't follow any type of tradition I had seen. Maybe some people threw a nightclub party and that was in their will. You know, I want you all have fun. I want you all to dress and drag. Someone else had a down ceremony, a poetry reading. The form kind of seemed broken and I think that was the form of a funeral, of a funeral and, and being broken. It was much more powerful. It served a purpose again and I think I didn't ever think I was going to go home and returned to the business, but it, it affected completely how I looked at it.

0 (33m 22s):
I mean literally you came to to feel like the the traditional funeral wasn't powerful enough to contain people's feelings.

7 (33m 28s):
Yeah, definitely. The traditional funeral in terms of clergy men, one eulogy and some last rights of some sort

0 (33m 46s):
In Los Angeles, he couldn't have chosen a better spot for adding movies to funerals. The rundown cemetery he and his brother bought is were lots of luminaries. When the first generation of motion pictures are buried, people like Rudolph Valentino Peter go, Cecil b Bugsy Siegel on a huge piece of land just next door to the Paramount Studio's back lot. Just a short walk from where Norman and his colleagues edit these sort of fake sort of real videotapes for eternity are the sound stages where the pleasingly sort of fake sort of real worlds of Frazier and Moisha are filmed. As you walk through the cemetery, you see the intrusion of new technology here and there. Recent headstones made with photographs engraved right into the rock, made possible by a new kind of laser and computer technology.

0 (34m 31s):
So far it's mostly Russian and Armenian immigrants who go for this. A man named Simon King in a jacket, no tie, stares out from his own tombstone with this badass glare. Like even though he has passed over to the other side, if you mess with him, he can still take you down. Not far from. There is one of the video touchscreens in the shade by a wall. You can call up any video they've made and we choose a name. Turns out to be a young woman, maybe 30 as a song. Can you feel the love tonight plays from the Lion King photo slash by 10 seconds each. Here she is in the hospital. Here she is in shot after shot with a baby that must be hers.

0 (35m 13s):
Then more hospital photos holding her baby, trying, trying to smile. It is impossibly sad, sadder than I can even convey to you here. There we are in the bright Los Angeles Sun cars going by just yards away from us. A dead young mom on the tv and we're mourning somebody we've never met. I think Tyler's right, right about all this. I think if you were just walking by a stranger's tombstone and saw their name chiseled there on the rock, you'd never get this feeling

5 (35m 56s):
Coming

0 (35m 56s):
Up. It's my birthday and I'll lie if I want to. Or is it a lie in a minute From Public Radio International when our program continues. Hi everybody. Ira here. If you were just tuning in, what we're doing this week is we're rerunning an old episode because it has Russell Banks in it. He died this past week. His story comes up as the last one in the show. This American Life. Am I a glass? Each week in our program, of course we choose some theme, bring a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program to commemorate our fifth year in the air, birthdays, anniversaries, milestones of all sorts, how we mark them, what they mean, even when we want them to mean nothing.

0 (36m 41s):
A program today taped on our fifth anniversary tour of New York, Boston, Chicago, and Los Angeles. And I have to say we are honored at this point to have a special birthday greeting for the show recorded by one of my radio heroes, Terry Gross of Fresh Air, which incredibly is celebrating its 25th year on the air this year. It makes us just look like little kids up here. She recorded this special message for us from her studio at W H Y Y in Philadelphia.

13 (37m 19s):
Five years, huh? I suppose after five years I was still all bright-eyed and optimistic. You know, kid, after 25 years in this crazy public radio game, you see a few things and you see a side of people you sometimes wish you hadn't. Don't get me started. The booze, the drugs, the crazy parties. The fundraisers. Five years, huh? We've got a lot to learn still, I guess.

13 (37m 59s):
Yeah. Congratulations. Whatever. Hope you enjoy your cake.

0 (38m 11s):
Thank you Terry Gross for that kind message. At three birthday present, there's a hotel in Salt Lake City called the anniversary. Ann. Before this building became an institution devoted to commemorating years of marriage, the building was the Salt Lake City Jail. Insert your own cheap joke here. The idea of the hotel is on an anniversary or a birthday or other big day. What we want is fantasy. There's a room with a drawbridge and a knight in armor designed to look like sleeping Beauties castle. There's a halo room and a Swiss family, Robinson tree house and a Treasure Island suite.

0 (38m 52s):
That one has a ship's mask and a crow's nest and sail stretching across the room. You walk the gang plank to jump into a jacuzzi. I bring all this up because I think of the anniversary in as a testament to the difficulty of introspection. It's as if when a big commemorative day arrives, the notion of using that moment to look back, to take stock, to try to gain a perspective on who we've been and who we are. That notion is so inherently difficult and possibly painful that many of us we prefer to leave reality completely. Looking back though can be what we need more than anything. Russell Banks has this story. He is the author of numerous books. We are honored to have him. Please welcome him.

14 (39m 45s):
It's about 10:00 PM and I'm one of three face at middle-aged guys crossing South Main Street in light snow headed for a quick drink at the Greeks. We've just finished a 32nd degree induction ceremony at the Masonic Hall in the old Capitol theater building. Anita Blow. I'm the tall figure in the middle. Warren Lowe, and I guess it's my story I'm telling, although you could say it was Gail Fortunas story. Since meeting her that night after half a lifetime is what got me started. I'm wearing remnants of makeup from the ceremony in which I portrayed an Arab prince Red lips, streaks of black on my face here and there.

14 (40m 30s):
Not quite washed off because of no cold cream at the hall. It's an acting job, the 32nd degree and not many guys are good at it. We are friends and businessmen, colleagues. I sell plumbing and heating supplies. My friend Sammy Gibson is in real estate and the other Rick Buckingham is a Chevy dealer. We enter the Greeks, a small restaurant in Fern Bar, pass through the dining room into the bar and back like regulars because we are regulars greeting the Greek in his help. Small comforts. Sammy and Rick hit Uselessly in one of the waitresses, the pretty little blonde kid and Mick a cracker two about the new gay waiter who's in the far corner by the kitchen door and can't hear them wise guys, the Greek says to me, what's with the Grease Paint Theater Group?

14 (41m 22s):
I tell him he's not a mason. I think he's Orthodox Catholic or something, but he knows what we do as we pass one table. In particular, this elderly lady in the group looks me straight in the eyes, which gets my attention because otherwise she's just some old lady. Then for a split second, I think I know her, but decide not and keep going. She's a large, baggy, bright-eyed woman in her late seventies, possibly early eighties. Old Sammy, Rick and I belly up to the bar, order drinks the usuals, comment on the snow outside and feel safe and contented in each other's company.

14 (42m 4s):
We reflect on our wives and ex-wives and our grown kids all elsewhere. I peek around the divider at her thin, silver, blue hair do laps at her throat, liver spots on her long flat cheeks. What the hell? An old lady, she's with family, some kind of celebration. Two sons, they look like in their forties with their wives and aboard. Teenage girl, all five of them. Overweight, dull, dutiful. In contrast to the old woman who despite her age, looked smart, aware, all dressed up in a maroon knit wolf suit, clearly an attractive woman. Once I drift from Sammy and Rick, ask the Greek, who's the old lady?

14 (42m 49s):
What's the occasion? The old lady's 80th says the Greek, we should live so long, right? You know her? No, I guess not. The waitresses and the gay waiters sing happy birthday and making a scene, but the place is almost empty anyhow from the snow and everybody seems to like it and the old lady smiles. Serene Lee. I say to Sammy and Rick, I think I know the old gal from someplace but can't remember where customer says Sammy munching peanuts. Rick says the same customer and they go on as before, probably an old girlfriend, Sammy adds haha say back a Celtics Knicks game on TV has their attention double overtime.

14 (43m 33s):
Finally, the Knicks win and it's time to go home. Guys snow's piling up. We pull on our coats, pay the bartender, and as we leave, the old lady's party is also getting ready to go and when I pass their table, she catches my sleeve, says my name, says it with a question mark. Warren. Warren Lowe. I say, yeah, hi and smile, but still I don't remember her. Then she says, I'm Gail for Warren. I knew you years ago. She says, and she smiles fondly and then everything comes back or almost everything. Do you remember me?

14 (44m 13s):
She asks. Sure, sure I do. Of course I do. Gail, how have you been? Geez, it's been a while. She nods. Still smiling. What's that on your face? Makeup? Yeah. Been doing little theater. Didn't have any cold cream to get it all off. I say lame. She says, I'm glad you're still acting. And then she introduces me to her family like that. This is my family. Howdy. I say, and start to introduce my friends, Sammy and Rick, but they're already at the door. Sammy says, so long Warren, don't do anything I wouldn't do. And Rick gives a wave and they're out.

14 (44m 57s):
So it's your birthday, Gail, happy birthday. She says, why thank you. The others are all standing now pulling on their coats except for Gail, who still hasn't let go of my sleeve, which she tugs and then says to me, sit down a minute, Warren, I haven't seen you in what? 30 years Imagine ma. The sun says it's late, the snow. I draw up a chair next to Gail and letting go of the dumb pretenses. I suddenly find myself struggling to see in her eyes the woman I knew for a few months when I was a kid, barely 21, and she was almost 50 and married and these two fat guys were her skinny teenage sons, but I can't see through the old lady's face to the woman she was then if that woman is gone, then so is the boy.

14 (45m 51s):
This boy, she looks up at one of her sons and says, Dickie, you go without me. Warren will give me a ride, won't you? Warren? She says, turning to me. I'm staying at Dickie's house up on the heights. That's not out of your way, is it? Nope. I'm up on the heights too. Alton Woods just moved into a condo there. Dickie says fine, a little worried. He looks like he's used to losing arguments with his mother. The Greek and his crew start cleaning up while Gail and I talk a few minutes more, although her eyes are wet and red rimmed, she's not teary, she's smiling. It's as if there are translucent shells over her bright blue eyes.

14 (46m 35s):
Even so now when I look hard, I can glimpse her the way she was slipping around back there in the shadows. She had heavy, dark red hair, clear white skin, smooth as porcelain, broad shoulders, and she was tall for a woman, almost as tall as I was. I remember exactly from when she and her husband once took me along with them to a V F W party and she and I danced while he played cards. When we knew each other. Warren, I was the age you are now. Yeah, I guess that's so strange to think about, isn't it?

14 (47m 16s):
Are you divorced? You look like it. Yeah. Divorced couple of years now kids, three girls all grown up. I'm even a grandpa. It was not one of your happy marriages. Not by a long shot. I don't think I want to hear about all that. Okay, what do you want to hear about? Let's have one drink and one short talk for old time sake and then you may drive me to my son's home. I say fine and ask the Greek who's at the register, tapping out if it's too late for a nightcap. He shrugs. Why not? And Gail asks for a Sherry and I order to order the usual vodka and tonic the Greek scoots back to the bar, pours the drinks himself because the bartender is wiping down the cooler and returns and sets them down before us on the house, he says and goes back to counting the night's take.

14 (48m 9s):
It's odd, isn't it, that we never ran into each other before this. She says, all these years you came up here to Concord and I stayed there in Portsmouth even after the boys left. Frank's job was there. Yeah, well, I guess 50 miles is a long way sometimes. How is Frank? I ask realizing as soon as I say it that he was at least 10 years older than she and is probably dead by now. He died. Frank died in 1982. Oh geez. I'm sorry to hear that. I want to ask you something, Warren. I hope you won't mind if I speak personally with you.

14 (48m 50s):
No. Shoot. I take a belt from my drink. I never dared to ask you. Then it would've embarrassed you then I thought because you were so scared of what we were doing together. So unsure of yourself. Yeah, no kidding. I was what? 21 you were. Well, not scary, but let's say impressive. Married with kids, a sophisticated woman of the world. You seem to me, and I was this apprentice plumber working on my first job away from home. A kid. You were more than that Warren. That's why I took to you so easily. You were very sensitive.

14 (49m 30s):
I thought someday you'd become a famous actor. I wanted to encourage you. You did. I laugh nervously because I don't know where this conversation is going and take another pull from my drink and say, I've done lots of acting over the years, you know? Oh, local stuff. Some of it pretty serious. No big deal, but I kept it up. I don't do much nowadays, of course, but you did encourage me, Gail. You did, and I'm truly grateful for that. She sips her sh with pursed lips like a bird. Good. She says, Warren, were you a virgin then when you met me?

14 (50m 10s):
Oh geez. Well that's That's quite a question, isn't it? I laugh. Is that what you've been wondering all these years? Were you the first woman I ever made love with? Wow, that's, Hey, Gail, I don't think anybody's ever asked me that before, and here we are 30 years later, I'm smiling at her, but the air is rushing out of me. I just want to know, dear. You never said it one way or the other. We shared a big secret, but we never really talked about our own secrets. We talked about the theater and we had our little love affair and then you went on and I stayed with Frank and grew old, older.

14 (50m 54s):
You weren't old as old as you are now, Warren. Yeah, but I'm not old. Well, were you? What a virgin. You don't have to answer if it embarrasses you. I hold off a few seconds. The waitress and the new kid and the bartender have all left and only the Greek is here perched on a stool in the bar watching Nightline. I could tell her the truth or I could lie or I could beg off the question altogether. It's hard to know what's right. Finally I say, yes I was. I was a virgin when I met you. It was the first time for me.

14 (51m 35s):
I tell her and she sits back in her chair and looks me full in the face and smiles as if I've just given her the perfect birthday gift. The one no one else thought she wanted. The gift she never dared to ask for. It's a beautiful smile. I'm grateful and proud and seems to go all the way back to the day we first met. She reaches over and places her small crackled hand on mine. She says, I never knew for sure, but whenever I think back on those days and remember how we used to meet in your room, I always pretend that for you. It was the first time I even pretended it back then when it was happening.

14 (52m 18s):
It meant something to me. For a few moments, neither of us speaks. Then I break the spell. What do you say? We shove off. They need to close this place up and the snow's coming down hard. She agrees and I help her slide into her coat. My car is parked only halfway down the block, but it's a slow walk to it because the sidewalk is a little slippery and she's very careful. When we're in the car and moving north on Main Street, we remain silent for a while and finally I say to her, you know Gail, there's something I've wondered all these years myself. Is there? Yeah, but you don't have to tell me if it embarrasses you, Warren, dear.

14 (53m 2s):
You reach a certain age, nothing embarrasses you. Yeah, well, I guess that's true. What is it? Okay. I wondered if, except for me, you stayed faithful to Frank and before me. No hesitation. She says Yes. I was faithful to Frank before you and after, except for my husband. You were the only man I loved. I don't believe her, but I know why. She has lied to me this time. It's my turn to smile and reach over and place my hand on hers. The rest of the way we don't talk except for her giving me directions to her son's house, which is a plain brick ranch on a curving side street up by the old armory.

14 (53m 48s):
The porch light is on, but the rest of the house is dark. It's late. I say to her, so it is. I get out and come around and help her from the car and then walk her up the path to the door. She gets her key from her purse and unlocks the door and turns around and looks up at me. She's not as tall as she used to be. I'm very happy that we saw each other tonight. She says, we probably won't see each other again. Well, we can if you want to. You're still a very sweet man, Warren. I'm glad of that. I wasn't wrong about you. I don't know what to say.

14 (54m 29s):
I want to kiss her though, and I do. I lean down and put my arms around her and kiss her on the lips very gently, then a little more, and she kisses me back with just enough pressure against me to let me know that she is remembering everything too. We hold each other like that for a long time. Then I step away and she turns, opens the door and takes one last look back at me. She smiles. You still got makeup on? She says, what's the play? I forgot to ask. Oh, I say thinking fast because I'm remembering that she's Catholic and probably doesn't think much of the Masons, Othello.

14 (55m 11s):
I say, that's nice. And you are the mo. Yes, still smiling. She gives me a slow pushing wave with her hand as if dismissing me and goes inside driving home. It's all I can do to keep from crying. Times come times gone, time's never returning. I say to myself, what's here in front of me is all I've got. I decide. And as I drive my car through the blowing snow, it doesn't seem like much except for the kindness that I've just exchanged with an old lady, so I concentrate on that.

14 (55m 51s):
Thank you.

0 (55m 59s):
Russell Banks. This story, the More is published in his latest collection of short fiction, the Angel on the Roof. Well, our program is produced today by Julie Snyder and myself with Todd Bachman, Sterly Kind, Alex Bloomberg Busche, and Jonathan Goldstein, contributing editors, paw Tuff Jacket, Margie Rocklin, Elise Spiegel, Nancy Dyke, and Cons. C Elizabeth Meister runs our website production help from Aaron Yankee. Okay, go. Damien Kolache, the cynical one. Tim Norwin, the happy one. Dan Kanaka, the solid one. Andrew Duncan, the quiet, George Harrison. Type thanks to Joeshi and Bill o Brock, Rachel Day and j Woodruff, Amanda Gibson, Jennifer Farrow and Anani. Special thanks to W B U R W N Y C W B E Z and KCR R W and to the stage crews at all four of our shows, sound Engineering in various cities by Dan Kosky, Bob Carlson, Mary Gaffney, Dennis Foley, Larry Jacobson, and the radio foundation.

0 (56m 51s):
Stephan Jacobs and the Great Miles Smith, W B Z Management Oversight by Tori Maltia who says to us at the end of each and every show.

13 (56m 60s):
Yeah, congratulations, whatever.

0 (57m 4s):
We had additional help. Today's rerun from KIPP Mustafa Stone Nelson and Matt Tierney. This American Life is public radio stations by prx, the public radio exchange glass back next week with more stories. This American Live next week on the podcast of this American life, there's a special unit inside the Mexican police whose entire job is to catch Americans who are running from the law and end up in Mexico the called the gringo hunters.

0 (57m 46s):
Seriously, sometimes all they need is pretty picture on a Facebook account and long American looking to connect.

16 (57m 54s):
He wanted to smoke some weed and stay overnight at my place and have a crazy night and I said yes. So yeah, he brought his little suitcase with his clothes and he was thought he was gonna stay with me for a few days. All like washed up and cologne

0 (58m 12s):
Fugitive gringos. That's next week on the podcast. Our new local public radio station.