0 (5s):
All right guys, we're here, sir. Don't forget your stuff. Okay. And Dylan, grab your snow pants.

1 (12s):
Here's the ritual that happens in millions of American families every day. Parents dropping off kids at the babysitters.

0 (28s):
I haven't seen you guys in such a long time.

1 (31s):
Sarah age nine and Dylan who's six or being left at a friend's house where there were two other kids, Elliot and Emma, and the regular babysitter Christiana who meets him at the door, who hasn't seen them. Since before Christmas, these kids have known Christiana longer than they've known almost anyone for years. She's been their sitter and eternity. Christiana takes care of them. After school, every day Cristiana knows everything about them. And there's such old pros of being left with the sitter that they don't think twice about it. Mom leaves no tears, no scenes.

0 (1m 2s):
Bye. I love you. I love you. Be good.

1 (1m 9s):
Christiana sort cereal to the four kids. Emma gets the power puff girl ball. Sarah gets the Barbie bowl. Then Dylan and Sarah fill me in on the differences between Christiana and their other main babysitter. A college student named Natalia.

2 (1m 21s):
She's not as calm as Christiana and everything. Like if

1 (1m 25s):
You want to get away with something, who is it easier to get away with Christiana

2 (1m 28s):
And Italia Italia. She doesn't really know the rules of our house. So then we say, we can drink Coke. You say, you say you can wear your clothes to bed all the time mom goes to back. That was for like heavier that you would do that to babysitters. And

1 (1m 53s):
Why do you want to go to bed

2 (1m 54s):
In your clothes? Because then I don't have to change. He just basically, he doesn't like changing. He thinks you waste too much time.

1 (2m 5s):
It's different. She's like a second mom.

2 (2m 7s):
That's what she thinks.

0 (2m 8s):
I think of you guys as my kids, I know them. I've known them since they were also a little and I love them like that. Yeah. And these guys have just been seeing them growing up and growing bigger and learning things. And, and I'm just very, very attached to them.

1 (2m 30s):
When a mom shows up at the house a little later to drop off yet another child, she doesn't use the word mom to describe Christiana. Mom, that's her territory. The word she uses is aunt. How do you define this job? Watching children for money? Well today on our program babysitters and what exactly happens when mom and dad are out of sight. Our show today in three acts in the first an older brother babysits and the younger brothers cower act two is about a day in 1988. When huge companies accidentally found themselves taking on a massive babysitting job because of snow in act three, they brother and sister get a job babysitting for some children who do not exist.

1 (3m 17s):
Today's show by the way is a rerun. And before we say anything else about babysitters first, let's just have a little brief word. Just you and me about Mary Poppins, Mary Poppins. Let's just say right here she is the gold standard of all fictional babysitters, maybe of all real ones too. She is the one that all others are to be measured by. And the movie Mary Poppins, it contains what is probably the classic song about babysitting. You remember the kids in the film sing about what it is that they want in a babysitter

2 (3m 54s):
<em></em> <em></em> cheeks. No,

1 (4m 12s):
No, let me just stop this right here. This is not exactly the tone that we are going for it in today's radio program, let's cut through the treacle

3 (4m 22s):
Nanny for two adorable children.

3 (4m 25s):
<em></em> Jane and Michael Banks.

1 (5m 30s):
Music recorded for our program by the dishes engineering by Elliot Dix and Mike Siegel at engine music studios, which brings us to act one Equon, what big teeth you have. Lots of babysitting is done by family members in this first story. Parents believe their kids in the care of their teenage son, but instead of acting as a surrogate parent, standing above sibling squabbles and rivalries, acting as judge and mediator, the teenage babysitter stays squarely in the center of those rivalries, but as ruler and king now with no parental forces tempering his actions, Hillary Frank has this cautionary tale about what happened.

4 (6m 10s):
The periods grew up in rural Idaho. When their parents went out, the oldest son, Doug was left in charge of his four younger siblings. Doug was the kind of guy who ruled the last three rows of the school bus through a combination of force and psychological pressure. He told other kids that the bus driver signed an agreement, putting him in charge of the back of the bus. He wore a bomber jacket. He rode a motorcycle. Still his parents thought he seemed responsible enough when it came to his brothers and sister, there was a lot, they didn't know,

5 (6m 45s):
Had to be there attending these damn kids. I was going to make it fun for me too. You know,

4 (6m 56s):
Doug often subjected his three little brothers to what he calls bravery tests. He would do things like stuff them in a sleeping bag and tie them to a tree limb or snap, huge rubber bands that their skin until they stopped flinching.

5 (7m 10s):
I really hesitate to tell this one because it could have been, I mean, this was well anyway, we had this iguana, okay. This big lizard about it was about three feet long had died. Well, I was so attached to this thing that I, of course didn't want to take it out and bury it. So I put it in the freezer and kept it. Well, this is a fun thing for all of us boys to take out of the freezer and throw out and play with it, you know? And then we got tired of playing with it. And then we put it back in the freezer, you know, and we'd freeze it again. And after about a year and a half of this, we decided we needed a new bravery test. So we thought, what can we do? I think we should boil and eat, boil and eat Guana.

5 (7m 53s):
That would be the ultimate bravery test. Well, we put it in a pot, bought the biggest part my mom had and we stuffed it in there and boil it, you know? Oh, well, that's been boiling about five minutes, probably done by now. And we'd got the thing out of there. And honest to goodness, we, we ate some of that lizard. I even ate some and they taste like, you know, at that point it actually tasted kind of like Sandestin

4 (8m 33s):
Doug did all the bravery tests. He made his brothers do. He was right in there with them, but they were on their own when it came to one of Doug's long running babysitting pranks. I spoke with Doug and with his youngest brother, Mike, who is the easiest target. They're 10 years apart.

6 (8m 52s):
We were convinced that he, we were convinced for or four years of our lives. I think that he could actually turn into a werewolf. We would walk out of the house and then you'd hear this. And it would literally stop you in your tracks. And you just knew he was out there somewhere.

4 (9m 15s):
Again, here's Doug.

5 (9m 17s):
We had a passenger in the back and it was about maybe half an acre and they'd go out clear up to the back fence and that's where they like to sleep out. So this is the perfect place for me to stock them in the night, you know, and sneak up and, and be the werewolf. So I would kind of just crawl out into the shadows, you know, and I could hear them out there talking, and I'd be sneaking up to the bushes and I'd go, And they'd just, I'd hear dead silence. And then I'd hear one and go ducks.

4 (9m 57s):
Doug kept this up for years and the kids began to tread it whenever their parents went out, knowing something scary. What happened to them until finally it all came to a head one night, Mike was eight years old. The middle brothers were 11 and 13. Doug was 18. It began the way it usually did out in a pasture, surrounded by potato fields. Here's Doug.

5 (10m 22s):
We had a full moon, which was wonderful. And I kinda got to where the moon was, was silhouetting me. And they couldn't really see me. And I, I stuck a bunch of weed down in my glasses, so they were poking out all around, you know, and then I kind of rose up out of the, out of the weed patch, you know, and they could see the silhouette with all this look like hair poking out, you know, so that convinced him. I mean that totally, I was totally drawing hair. I was completely aware, well, so run for your life, you know,

6 (10m 50s):
And, and we all of course knew that the best thing to do was to get out of our sleeping bags and run as fast as we could to the house, because that was the, the sheer shelter.

4 (11m 3s):
What were you afraid that Doug was going to do to you?

6 (11m 5s):
Well, it's just the whole idea of being chased around in the dark and, and it's not like there was ever a lack of physical contact. I mean, he, he literally was, was a situation where you were scared for your life. And we knew that Doug was in between us and the house somewhere. And, and as we were running to the house, Doug was just sitting on the roof in sort of a gargoyle position just still as, as tonight and just staring at us, watching us. And so we just kind of slowly kind of just walked underneath him and ran into the house.

5 (11m 49s):
Well, now I'm peeking in the windows. I'm rattling the doors more. I'm trying to get in. And they're running from door to door, trying to lock all the doors up. And I was always right on their heels as they, as they, as they made it to the door. And I, I made sure that I just didn't quite catch them, you know? And they would run into slam the doors just to it's about the time they thought they were all safe. I have snuck over and took the breaker. I shut the breaker off to the house. And

6 (12m 17s):
Then all of a sudden, boom, the lights go out and it's pitch dark in the house.

5 (12m 26s):
It was like, this we're all gonna die. I mean, it was just, they had no safe place. They could think of it to go until one of them finally thought get to the car. You know, we got to get in the car and lock the doors.

6 (12m 38s):
And as we were all sitting in there looking around at each other, we realized that my brother, Steve didn't make it out of the

7 (12m 43s):
House. And then the next thing I know, I'm in the house alone.

4 (12m 46s):
Let's introduce another brother. This is Steve.

7 (12m 49s):
And the, of course, and then my, my fear went out, you know, through the roof, you know, it was like, and then I see him looking in the patio window at me.

5 (13m 4s):
Well, I was still around back. So I thought, well, Steve is still in there. I could see in the darkness, I could see him rocking in the chair. We'll all get Steve.

6 (13m 14s):
He snuck into the house and he saw my brother, Steve, just sitting on the couch. And Steve just said, I don't care. Kill me if you want.

7 (13m 26s):
And that was when I told him, you know, kill me or whatever, be done with this. However you want to end it. I mean, I'm done.

5 (13m 36s):
I don't think we ever played it again. After that point, you know,

4 (13m 45s):
These days, the brothers are all quick to say that Doug was playing werewolf, that it was just a game. None of them carry resentment towards him. The, when they were kids, clearly feelings were running a bit hotter around the same time that Doug had his little siblings convinced he wanted their blood. He got into a motorcycle accident that nearly killed him. He broke every bone in his face, one arm and one irreplaceable kneecap. The force of the crash made the helmet along with his scalp shoot off his head. It took around 350 stitches to sew him back up.

5 (14m 23s):
You know, when I came home from the hospital, I had my leg in a cast, my arm in a cast, I was in a wheelchair and my face was all banged up. And that my brothers say, mom, we'll take the down the road in his wheelchair for a walk. And so he can have some errands. So she goes, okay. And then you get in the wheelchair, they get me out on the highway and, and run as fast as they can. And then let go. And I'm like, you know, going down the road and the wheelchair heading for the, for the ditch. And just about the time I go in the ditch, they catch up to me and straighten me out and go again. You know? So this was kind of a good even get even me kind of a time.

5 (15m 3s):
And I, there was nothing I could do about it. And they just, they'd had a great fun with me that time. You know? So I guess that, you know, I was expecting a lot of sympathy and poor Doug, and no, it wasn't that at all. It was, let's get some revenge for all this time.

4 (15m 25s):
Revenge came in other forms as he got older, when Doug had kids of his own to his har, his oldest son, Corey turned out to be exactly the same kind of babysitter that Doug had been. Doug would come home from a night out and find himself, pulling Corey aside and saying things like next time, try and tie the rope a little looser around your brother's neck. Steve, the brother who told Doug just kill me is also a parent these days of four daughters. And like Doug he's had moments flashing back to the days when Doug babysat.

7 (15m 60s):
I remember this one time he came out with his box and he said, look, what I found out out in you open this box and he had his finger sticking up through the bottom of the box so that all you can see was this bloody finger in there. You know, I mean, I've peaked out over that for years. I still remember vividly of course, after we saw how freaked out we were by it, he showed us out work. You know, I did it to my own kids. If you can believe that, you know,

4 (16m 32s):
Why, why would you want to freak

7 (16m 34s):
That? I remembered it so vividly. And I, I thought, well, that was, you know, and I think back on it and, and I go, well, it was kind of cool actually how he did it. So here I go, and I'm going to try it with my own kids. Okay. And I, and I lift up the box and I, and my, my oldest daughter just broke into tears. And I I've been, I, I apologize all over myself for a week or two afterwards to her. I hope she's probably going to have is crap. Your memory of that as I did is when I seen it first time, you know?

4 (17m 12s):
Yeah. Did you feel sort of like you were in Doug's shoes, like you knew what it was.

7 (17m 18s):
And then I catch myself wanting to tease him too. Like he did sometimes, you know, in a fun sort of way, but my wife would go, you know, you're acting just like,

4 (17m 36s):
As an adult, Doug has gone to each of his younger brothers and apologize for how he treated them. But he also thinks if they'd been less aggressive with each other, as kids, they wouldn't be as close. Now

5 (17m 48s):
I know families that have grown up more mellow than us, and they say they get along fine. And they're very civil and there, and they're very happy to see each other, but they're almost like when they see each other, they shake hands and I'm like, give me a break. You haven't seen your brother for six months and you're shaking his hand. I mean, we're, we're grabbing each other and bear hugging and we're, we're jumping up and down and you know, it's a whole different relationship. As far as I see, like people who've been through traumatic experiences together, you know, that maybe that's why, you know, you feel like you've been through that and survived it all together. And so it creates a deep bond or something maybe. So I think we're closer because of it actually

4 (18m 29s):
Did part of you know, that when, when you were younger, that it might make you closer when you grew up.

5 (18m 37s):
Well, you know, I think maybe subconsciously you do because after every time you would feel somewhat closer, you know? So I don't think as a kid, you'd actually sit down and think if I do this, it's gonna make me closer to my brother. He'd just do it. If it feels that way, you know, you just tend to do the things that make you grow closer together. And those are the things that we did that the drill is together. So we continued doing those kinds of things.

4 (19m 8s):
When I asked the other brothers, if they do it all over again, they all say they would.

6 (19m 14s):
Yeah, absolutely. I loved my childhood.

4 (19m 19s):
Even with all the terror and danger that was there. You would, you would still do all of it over again.

6 (19m 26s):
Absolutely. I look back on those years with complete fondness.

1 (19m 39s):
Hey, Frank writes books makes podcasts most recently, a funny dark fictional show about middle school called here. Eyes. Me,

8 (19m 53s):
If you want this choice, position habit, rosy cheeks, no water, play games, all sorts. You must be. You must be ready. Very sweet unfairly. Take us on out and give us treats. Sing songs. Bring sweets, Never be crass. Cruel, never give us oil.

8 (20m 39s):
If you won't score Dom and Veda will never give you reason to hide your spectacles so you can see your bed, perhaps. Yo hurry, nanny man is sincerely Jane and bye bye

1 (21m 10s):
John Langford of the Waco brothers and the Micons with John Rice on mandolin and a song recruited for a show, whatever we are paying them, it is not enough. And this brings us to act two, act two. In the event of an emergency, put your sister in an upright position. On the day after Christmas, all across America, divorced kids shuttle from one parent to the other. If they fly their babysitters or the airlines themselves, this is babysitting and case incorporate procedure and corporate language kids find without adults are called unaccompanied minors, little winds get brightly. Colored tags, pinned to their coats are hung from their necks. When you see them, it's hard not to feel bad for them. And wonder what they're going to say about the experience someday when they grow up well, back in December of 1988, on December 26, divorced kids from all over the country got snowed in at O'Hare airport here in Chicago.

1 (21m 60s):
Susan Burton was one of those kids. Now old enough to tell the tale she and her sister Betsy were traveling from Colorado, where their mom lived to Michigan, where they'd grown up and where their dad lived. Here's Susan,

9 (22m 11s):
There were two types of unaccompanied minors on flights, out of Denver, divorced kids and skier kids. You could spot the skier kids because they always wear something to prove they'd been to Colorado. They had lift tickets, fanning out from the zippers of their jackets or baseball caps that said Vail. But since today was December 26th, we suspected that even the boy with the raccoon face tan, the kind you get from ski goggles was like us, a divorced kid too. As soon as our flight left Denver, my thoughts turned to our layover in Chicago, Betsy, and I love the O'Hare airport with a shiny food court and chain bookstores and big glass atrium ceiling. It seemed like a beautiful new mall.

9 (22m 54s):
When we landed in Chicago, it was snowing, snowing, hard enough to shut the airport down. It was only the middle of the afternoon. And travelers were already reserving sleeping spaces by throwing their park. As over blocks of chairs, even floor space was scarce and some people were stuck alongside the moving walkway. The mall had become a refugee camp. The departure board showed that our flight to grand rapids was canceled. So we went to a service desk where an agent took her tickets and type things into our terminal. Then she turned on her microphone and sent a cryptic message out over the PA. I have two ums at the service desk, two ums at the service desk. Okay. The woman told us someone's coming by for you.

9 (23m 36s):
A second woman appeared and we followed her to a gray unmarked door. She fumbled with her keys. I squeezed Betsy's hand the door, opened onto a room, packed with kids sitting on their winter jackets. There were dozens of kids, all kinds of kids, someones small groups, the young ones conversing with stuffed animals. Others looking uncomfortable in dresses or overheated in moon boots that have been too big to pack. Most of them were facing a podium at the front of the room as if they'd been dropped off at the public library and were waiting for reading by Shel Silverstein at the podium, a steward put our names on a list. The woman standing next to him was wearing the uniform of another airline.

9 (24m 17s):
It's strange to see people from different airlines mixing, almost like something that shouldn't be allowed. There were a handful of folding chairs in the room and we found a free one near the center. I took the seat and Betsy settled on the floor beside me. She got her baby blanket out of her bag and began to sniff it. It seemed, we'd never been around so many divorced kids at once back home. Most kids had both parents you'd forget you were different. And then you'd be at someone's house after school. And the dad would come home. And from the landing on the staircase, you'd see him sorting through the mail, talking to the mother in the kitchen. It was hard to explain why this was sad.

9 (24m 60s):
As a result. All that most of our friends knew about our divorce was that my favorite video to rent was Kramer vs. Kramer, and Betsy's was the parent trap. So now it was strange to hear kids talking about the things we kept to ourselves. A group nearby was engaged in a kind of divorced kid. One-upmanship a girl wearing a sweatshirt with a Christmas tree patch said she saw her father only a couple of times a year, a boy laying on his stomach claim that he saw his dad even less. They exchanged a series of anecdotes about stepmothers and took a poll of who'd been the object of a custody battle. It seemed improper to talk so freely about these things. I had no way of expressing this at the time, but it felt like we were part of something on a grand scale.

9 (25m 41s):
All these kids here in Chicago at the transfer point between mom and dad, Being babysat by the airlines was a lot like what you'd expect. Gate agents started in and out consulting papers and making shushing noises and yelling at names from the podium. They seem flustered annoyed. Normally their babysitting duties were small scale. They were good at shepherding kids along moving walkways and doling out little pins shaped like wings in the U M room. They reverted to the same crowd control techniques that they used in flight secure the doors, withhold information and discourage people from getting up to use the bathroom.

9 (26m 27s):
So we did what any group of fed up delayed passengers does. We started to generate our own information in the late evening, rumor filtered through the crowd that the reason some kids were being escorted away was that their parents were making a bigger fuss than the other parents. Where were those kids going? The question arose from those of us in the landlocked middle and traveled through the crowd. The answer was transmitted back to us by our intelligence forces stationed at the podium. Those kids got hotels. The rest of us would have to sleep here in the U M room.

9 (27m 9s):
The divorced kid reacts to his parents' separation. And one of two ways as the rumor about the sleeping arrangements spread, it became clear who was the divorced kid who avoided conflict and who was the divorced kid who acted out fart noises and creased crushed drink boxes began to litter the floor. I realized that when thrown with sufficient force, a Nerf ball could cause injury. Soon word came around that the system had changed that our babysitters were mad and they didn't care who your parents were or how many times they called. Now, there were taking the good kids. First, immediately, Betsy laid down on her blanket. I took out the book in my bag, catcher in the rye within an hour.

9 (27m 49s):
We were out of there. Bye. Now it was one in the morning. Betsy and I and a group of others followed a stewardess through the dim halls. The metal gates were down over the entrance to the food court and travelers was sleeping in chairs. We would share a room with two other people. The first was a girl close to my age who was wearing glasses with pink plastic frames. I convinced myself that she was the same girl. Who'd been in my lane at swim camp years earlier when my parents were still married, I didn't ask her because I didn't want to ruin it. If it wasn't true. The second person was a stewardess who looked about 30.

9 (28m 29s):
She wore a lot of makeup and she was big boned packed into a uniform. She wasn't mean to us, but she was pretty standoffish. We settled into our room. When the stewardess went into the bathroom, the swim camp girl pulled me over to the window. Curtains were closed, but red lights shown in from the parking lot where you sleep in the bed with me. So I won't have to sleep with the stewardess. She said, I looked over at Betsy. She was sitting on one of the two double beds in the room, sniffing her blanket. I told the girl, yes, it just came out.

9 (29m 10s):
Almost immediately. I felt awful. When we lay down, I answered as far to the edge as I could, that I feel near to my sister on the edge of the bed, across the aisle. The stewardess came out of the bathroom, wearing control, top stockings and a slip and got under the covers like that. I'd never seen a grown woman sleep in anything other than a flannel nightgown. I wondered if she always slept like that, or if it was just because she had to get up early, maybe this was what all stewardesses wore under their uniform, but maybe she just felt awkward. Or maybe there were rules about what you wore that you had to keep covered, or maybe she just didn't want her bare legs near Betsy.

9 (29m 53s):
I saw Betsy shift under the covers and curl into a ball. I now felt certain that this was the worst thing I'd ever done to my sister. I wanted the strangest removed in my family restored. I hated this one, camp girl sleeping next to me. She wasn't from Michigan. She didn't have anything to do with my life on these trips to visit our father more than any other time of at sea. And I had was each other. I thought of the kids in the U M room at the airport, the one St. Crass things about the saddest thing that had ever happened in life and how reassuring it had been. When I looked at Betsy sniffing her blanket, the way she always had the way I thought she would forever

1 (30m 38s):
Susan Burton in the years, since that story was first broadcast on our radio show a movie based on that story about kids of divorce trapped in an airport over Christmas was released. It was a kid's comedy directed by Paul Feig is called unaccompanied minors

2 (30m 53s):
Around suggestions for the new nanny. Would you like to hear them? You have my undivided attention. Most gel. If you please, you wish to be banned book my, my shorts cutting through the treacle. If Maddie's fasc, don't avoid her. Let me get away with <em></em>

1 (31m 38s):
Coming up. How hard could it be to babysit kids who do not even exist? That's in a minute from Chicago, Bubba radio. When our program continues,

10 (31m 48s):
My name's Alex Rainer, and I leave one of the product teams at the New York times. I'm here to tell you about something. I think you're going to like since you're listening to a podcast right now, it's called New York times audio. And it's an app designed to help you understand the most important and interesting stories of the day. All curated by our editors. It's not ready yet. So we're running an invite only beta. If you want to be one of the first to try New York times audio and help us make it great. Fill out a brief survey@nytimes.com slash audio that's N Y times.com/audio,

1 (32m 20s):
This American life, Myra glass, each week, of course, we choose a theme, bring you different kinds of stories on that theme today's program babysitting. And what happens that mom and dad do not find out about today's program was first broadcast back in 2001, we've arrived at act three of our program. Act three. Yes, there is a baby. This is a story that got her interest because of babysitting, but then it ended up being so many other things besides, I mean, a father named Myron Jones wrote us this letter. He said that when he was 16 years old, growing up without a dad in Buffalo, New York, he was allowed to stay out until midnight. He came and went as he pleased, spent a lot of time in bars. Actually, this is the 1940s, but his sister, Carol, she had different rules when she was let out of the house at all.

1 (32m 60s):
Even though she was older than Myron, this Dre gets to babysitting in a big, big way. And I called him to talk about,

11 (33m 6s):
She had to say exactly where she was going, who she was going with. She could go to church dances, but only some church debts. It all had to do with protecting her chastity reading.

1 (33m 25s):
If one were to ask your mother at the time, what would she have said?

11 (33m 29s):
She, she said, you gotta be more careful with a girls spelled P R E G N a N T. So my sister figured out a little scheme. She invented a family called the McCreary, said they needed her to babysit. And I w I remember when she first told me about it, he said, this is what I did. I made up.

11 (34m 10s):
I said, what do you mean I'm here with this family I babysit for they're called them a career.

1 (34m 25s):
It seemed clear. Once I got talking to Myron Jones, that his sister Carol might have a few thoughts about all this. And we gave her a call. She agreed to go into a studio and chat. She says, if anything, her brother was understating. Just how strict their mother was with her. She's

12 (34m 39s):
Follow me. She had a friend, we called them Sam spade in the fact man. And they would follow us. And then I go home and she'd come in and say, well, where have you been? I, it was, it was really, really hard. She didn't believe anything I ever said.

1 (35m 1s):
And were you a pretty good kid? Good, good student in school.

12 (35m 4s):
I was, I, I, you know, for a long time I thought that, oh, I was terrible. My mother started calling me a whore before I had any idea what the word was. I couldn't look it up because it did not was, was spelled. I couldn't find it. And so it occurred to me that if I had a family, a non-existent family, I could go, I could say I was going there.

11 (35m 33s):
Carol started working out the details because whenever she babysit, my mother had to have the phone number. She could check up on her. So the, the man and the family was an FBI agent. Rick had a top secret project. So he could not give his phone number to anyone at all. You also couldn't let anyone, but my sister, the babysitter, no, just where they lived, it would have been dangerous to do so.

1 (36m 16s):
So, so, so how, how far did this go? How complicated did the story of the McMurray's get,

11 (36m 24s):
It got very complicated. They had two kids. Michael was three, and Laura was too happy to be the age separation between my sister and myself, but it was reversed. Sometimes the, the, the little boy in particular would, would try to test this and I'd let him get away with it. But my sister wouldn't and they had all kinds of toys, but not too many toys. And they, they liked her parents very much loved their parents. They were easy. They weren't spoiled in any way. And

1 (37m 0s):
They sound like very special kids. Oh

11 (37m 2s):
Yeah. They were great. They were like, no kids ever met. Really. I think, I think in many ways they had the life. My sister wished that we'd

12 (37m 23s):
I had them rent a cottage at the lake for the summer.

1 (37m 27s):
So the mayor said the McMurray's had had a summer house. And did they require your services at the summer house?

12 (37m 33s):
And D they, they knew that the kids would enjoy it so much more if we were there. And it was, we, because both my brother and I always liked a little kids a lot, you know? So my mother would accept this quite readily. You know, that, that they wanted to the, both of us out at the lake. It was wonderful. We had such a good summer. I mean, it was, it was glorious. What would you do? Well, we just, we sometimes, if we knew someone out that sometimes kids we knew would have cottages, you know, kids used to get together and chip in, or their parents would have a coach. Sometimes we'd just sleep on the beach, which was great. I loved that. I loved sleeping on the beach.

1 (38m 15s):
I have to say, every time you talk about the freedom you got, your voice becomes completely different. It's like, you could still taste it.

12 (38m 24s):
I still remember what that was like. It offered freedom. That was just so wonderful to me.

11 (38m 42s):
We really got all of this from, from our mother, this notion of fantasy people, our mother had from the time we were young kids, younger than 10, I mother had three people that she went to see, none of them existed. And we always knew they didn't exist. Really?

1 (38m 60s):
Yeah.

11 (39m 2s):
One was a lawyer and she wouldn't say what she was doing there, but she dropped little hints. And what we were supposed to believe was that that was making arrangements to put us in the orphanage, the second person, she, so it was a psychiatrist. Was she pronounced psychologist? Interesting. And she went there because he would tell her that we were driving her crazy. And the third person was a doctor who told her she was going to die. And she, we have no idea where in fact she went, but she was never gone long enough to see anyone at all.

1 (39m 47s):
She would have good early. This wasn't just something she would say to you. Well, I've been to a psychiatrist and he's tells me that you're driving, that you guys are driving me crazy. She would actually leave the house and go to her appointment.

11 (39m 57s):
And she'd say, she'd go for the door. And when we're young and we say, where are you going now? Cause it was so unusual for her to go out except to work. And she'd say, wouldn't you like to know? Okay. Is it your doctor? As we got older? She'd say maybe. And so that was her. That was her game. I have no idea. I think she walked around the block a couple of times.

1 (40m 39s):
So, so at some point your mother must've wanted to meet them, right?

11 (40m 43s):
No, she was, she was shy. Isn't the word for, but she didn't like knowing people at all. She didn't know the people next door. She didn't want to know them. So she was really deliberately isolated, but the Macquaries were far and away. The favorite topic of conversation, I mother would ask questions about them. And then Carol would give her far more information than she asked for.

1 (41m 17s):
Say, say more, say more of what you remember of what you would tell them.

11 (41m 21s):
Well, she, when was Mrs. Mrs. McCreary was, was very intelligent and, and lovely and very kind. And, and she was my sister's satisfied of a mother. And she was my fantasy as an older woman who might fall in love with me and with any luck at all, seduce me.

1 (41m 45s):
So wait, so would you talk about it with your mom too? Yeah.

11 (41m 47s):
My, my sisters started that. I w I was a little uncomfortable about it. My sister said, I think he's got a crush on her and I, and I would almost blush uncomfortably because I did.

1 (42m 4s):
And then your mom would ask you questions, for example, well, what color hair does she have?

11 (42m 8s):
No, she didn't ask questions like that. She's never asked questions like that. She she'd say, well, I hope I hope you act right over there. What do they think of you? And then the question she to this day asks, oh, what do they think of your mother? And Cara would say gives the right answer, which was, they think you're wonderful. It was a, it was a way of having a conversation with her. That's right.

11 (42m 48s):
She liked to hear about a fancy people. She imagined somehow that maybe it would all rub off on Carol.

1 (43m 1s):
That they'd be a good influence. They'd be a

11 (43m 3s):
Good influence. And there might even be some money in it. But Carol also handled because she wasn't getting any money from babysitting. She said that Mr. McCurry was taking all the babysitting money and putting it into stocks and bonds.

1 (43m 17s):
Yeah.

11 (43m 18s):
Carol Carol knew she was going to ask that she anticipated, but Carol said before, it could even come up. Carol said, Mr. McCurry, isn't going to pay me. He's going to put all my babysitting money in his stocks and bonds. My mother didn't know anything about stocks and bonds, and neither did we, but my mother knew that that's what rich people did. And it was over on the other side of town of wherever you put it, the rich side of town, my mother didn't know anything about that neighborhood. She was the oldest of seven children grew up in a very, really poor family. My mother had one friend who, who was middle-class, who she'd met.

11 (44m 3s):
My father was still alive. And she, and she influenced my mother. And so did the people that my mother cleaned for. The end of the, it was the last weekend. And that was near the real change in the McCreary time.

1 (44m 31s):
Well, what happened at the end of the summer,

11 (44m 33s):
We really were exhausted from our, from our summer, from our real summer weekends,

1 (44m 40s):
The strenuous work of having fun with your friends

11 (44m 44s):
And those times when there's no cottage to go to and we'd sleep out on the beach. And, and we were going home and, and we headed up to Baxter. We always had to go in the back, we headed up the backstairs and we lived on the second floor and we could tell before we turned the corner, that our mother was outside the door waiting for us. And we turned and there she was, and she looked ready to kill. She looked absolutely furious. She said, well, are you too? And I thought, oh God, she thought at all, about the summer Cod and Carol, you know, we've been in the curries.

11 (45m 32s):
I might have said, oh yeah, well, yes, I, couple of damn liars. I just got off the phone with Mrs. McCreary. She hasn't seen you in a week.

12 (45m 46s):
My brother and I agree, we didn't breathe. We thought, oh my gosh, talk to that. And then as quickly you realize, of course you didn't talk to them.

11 (45m 59s):
True. Got over it immediate and said, sorry, man, nice try. 10 minutes ago, we went in the house. I didn't say anything. We didn't say anything there. The rest of the day after that, we really stopped talking about the material.

1 (46m 26s):
Did she often claim that she had run into the Macquarie?

12 (46m 29s):
She talked to her that she hadn't seen me. She did it so often she believed this. It was amazing that she never questioned these things.

1 (46m 41s):
Why do you think she didn't question it?

12 (46m 45s):
I think she wanted it to be true. Probably as much as I did.

1 (46m 50s):
It's interesting. W w when you invented, 'em when you invented them it's as if you invented them in terms that would reassure your mom.

12 (46m 60s):
Yeah. I'm I'm probably did. I, I don't think that, well, I didn't know. It did. I'm sure it did occur to me that I wanted a family that would please her.

1 (47m 9s):
Is that because is that because it would, it would make her more likely to let you out, or was there a part of it where you also were the kind of kid where you always needed to be reassuring her anyway?

12 (47m 24s):
Oh, I had to constantly reassure her. Always, you know? I mean, it isn't something I talk easily about, but she really never liked me. That was a problem.

1 (47m 46s):
Is your mom still alive? So, so how old is she now?

11 (47m 52s):
I'm going to be 70 in another 10 days. You do you want me to make my mother look like a liar?

1 (48m 9s):
Well, in a sense, you already have, it's just a question of whether she's going to know it.

11 (48m 13s):
All right. No, I never crossed my mind to do it.

1 (48m 19s):
Never crossed your mind

11 (48m 20s):
To tell her. No, never because

1 (48m 22s):
She wouldn't be able to laugh about it.

11 (48m 23s):
Not in any way. She might simply say that we were lying now, but there were McCreary. And we were just saying that for some reason,

1 (48m 36s):
Does it make you sad that you can't have the kind of relationship with your mom where now that everyone's an adult, you know, you can't, you can't come, come straight with all of it?

11 (48m 46s):
No, my sister and I, I think because of, because of going away to school, when I was so young, let me back up a little bit. When I was nine, I came home on a Saturday afternoon and my mother said, I'm sorry, you weren't here because father <em></em> priest was here visiting. And he found a very nice orphanage for you. And, and I said, but I'm not an orphan. She said, no, I know I told father secretary, but he said, you really, you are because I have to work all the time.

11 (49m 28s):
And there's no one to take care of you. And, and I said, well, we take care of ourselves. She said, I need to go father cigarette. But he said, not really. You go there to be a good place for you. You go there. I was close to, I was in my thirties before I understood why I, why I went away to school when I was 10. I didn't have to, I could've knocked. I could've screwed up the test. I could have gone and gotten kicked out right away. I knew that one of the things that our mother did with us from the time we were very young, I can't remember before.

11 (50m 13s):
I know before I went to school, my mother used to say to us, when your father died, everybody told me to put the two years in an orphanage. I didn't and was the biggest mistake of my life. So when, when the day came, I came home and she said, father Sigrid found an orphanage for you. What I really did was say, you've been threatening me with this all my life, and now damn it. I'm going to go. And at it felt safer.

11 (50m 55s):
I was scared as hell. I was, I was one of two kids in the sixth grade. The other kid never showed up. I went to all classes alone for six weeks. And, and, and after six weeks I went home and I was, it was, it was, it was late October, already, dark and Buffalo and around suppertime. And I was walking down the street. I loved my neighborhood. I knew everybody. I looked, the lights were on thinking it's warm. And there's people. That's Sonny Kaluchi his house.

11 (51m 36s):
They're in there. And I have a house too. I go to school now, but I have a house too. And I'm almost there. And I walked in the door and I started to hug my mother and my mother put out her hand to hold me back and said, oh, let me ask you a question. When you're up there at that fancy school, you really think about your mother lying here in bed, crying her eyes out every single night. You ever think about that. You never say goodbye to anybody but yourself. And I literally, from that moment on, has never asked my mother for anything, never looked to her for anything.

11 (52m 21s):
I was 10

12 (52m 32s):
Through the years have, have truly envied him that, that he has been able to do that. And that I have been unable to do that. Not, not believing that I'm going to get anything from her. I know I haven't, but I, I have never, I haven't been able to this moment to just take her out of my life. Complete me. How often do you see her now? Do I see her? Yeah, I am now seeing her twice a week. I mean, I'm, I call her every night, which is just all, it's all something to do with me because she doesn't know that I call her every night because she she's becoming senile.

12 (53m 16s):
Yes. Yes. But what do you think you've gotten by being the one caring for her? One time when I was 35, I lashed out at her in such a way and told her how I felt about her. And she sat in a chair in the kitchen and she was crying and I had never even seen her cry before. And when I finally stopped talking, she said, I did the very best I could. And I thought, oh my God, she did her best was so bad. Her best was so empty, but she couldn't do any better.

12 (53m 59s):
I, I decided, and it helps me a lot. I have a great aunt that I just adored and her mother, my mother's mother who was wonderful. And my great grandmother who, I didn't know, but who adored my mother, my mother slept in bed with her. I thought I'm going to do this for the people that loved her. Do you know all of the people that really loved this little girl, I'm going to do it for them. And it feels, it feels fine to me.

1 (54m 43s):
You know, what you're describing is is, is you and your sister going off and pretending to babysit for these imaginary kids. But in fact, you guys had a babysitting job and it was for your mom.

11 (54m 58s):
That's right. My sister was the chief babysitter. They're reading. It's true

1 (55m 5s):
At the time when you were kids, did you, when you were kids, did you ever see it that way? Oh, we're, we're taking care of mom. She thinks she's taking care of us, but we're taking care of her.

11 (55m 15s):
Oh yeah. There was a, there was a kind of humoring, her placating her. And, and when I was about 10, she gave me a first baseman's glove. Cause I was going to be a major league ball player when I grew up. And she said, you, you tell people who gave you the glove. So you know, you, you tell them how much it costs. I didn't. But I said, yeah, but you tell them how long I had to work to buy that. I said, yeah. She said, you did not.

1 (55m 57s):
Well, let's set the record straight. Here we go. You're on the radio. How long did your mother have to work to buy you? The baseball glove. She

11 (56m 3s):
Had to work a week.

1 (56m 6s):
That's a long time.

11 (56m 7s):
Absolutely representative. I've thought about it since then. Have I ever given my kids a present that I was worth a week's wages? No I haven't.

1 (56m 29s):
Mr. Jones, what would have happened if there hadn't been the McCreary?

11 (56m 36s):
I seem absolutely inevitable. I never thought about what would happen if they hadn't been there. Wow. They're there. They had to be there. I, I, I still think they would be in, let's see, three. They would be 56, 57 years old. I've wondered where they're living, how they're doing. I pictured them doing very well and, and, and kind of doll now. Yeah. I don't picture them as being terribly interesting.

11 (57m 16s):
They're more conservative than their parents, but nice pleasant, good people. I I'm afraid. I think they're looking, I may run into them in the store.

1 (57m 46s):
Myron and Carol both said there was no way their mother would ever hear this story on the radio. And the fact that she never did the story was first broadcast. In 2001, she died at the age of 95, in 2002, after she died, Carol told Myron the secret that she had promised her mother, she would never tell him. It turns out her mom didn't actually buy that baseball glove from Irun. Their uncle bought the glove. And when it arrived at the house wrapped as a gift, Myron's mom intercepted. It gave it to him and pretended it was from her all along Myron, who is a model of grace and good humor in that interview died in 2011 at the age of 80 lovely man, Carol died in 2018 at the age of 88.

8 (58m 38s):
<em></em> <em></em> no

1 (59m 5s):
Oh, today's program of our show was produced by Alex Bloomberg and myself with blue Shevani Jonathan Goldstein, Sterling kind, Julie Snyder and Aaron Yankee production. I put today's rerun from my <em></em> Katherine Raymondo Michelle Navarro, Stowe Nelson, and Matt Tierney, our website, this American life.org, where you can stream our archive of over 750 episodes for absolutely free. Also there's videos. There's lists of favorite shows. There's tons of other stuff there too. Again, this American life.org, this American life is delivered to public radio stations by PRX, the public radio exchange. Like there's always, you're a program's co-founder Mr. . You know, he still asked me after every single show,

11 (59m 42s):
You tell him how much it costs. You tell him how long I had to work to buy that.

1 (59m 49s):
I'm Eric Glass back next week with more stories of this American life. Next week on the podcast of this American life. When the pandemic hit school buildings, shutdown, and lots of students just vanished. Some never showed up again. Enrollment's down in lots of places. And somehow this idea that school is just a fact inevitable. If you're a kid, you go to school, no way out that got shattered to kids drifting away.

1 (1h 0m 33s):
So I'm coming back next week on the podcast or on your local public radio station.