3 (1s):
Support for This American Life comes from Dino the Capital One assistant that catches things that might look wrong with your credit card sends an alert to your phone and helps you fix them. Another way Capital One is watching out for your money when you're not what's in your wallet see capitalone.com for details. So here we are met prom season. It was schools closed almost everywhere around the country. Maybe it would be nice to take a minute and remember our pre covid lives but schools to be back someday with football games assemblies and report cards and cafeteria food and prom.

3 (40s):
Prom is a really funny thing to feel nostalgic about because it's so emotionally fraught know what I mean. I remember years ago. I followed this kid David to his Junior Prom. This is it Lincoln Park High School in Chicago and Midway through the night. David's date ditched him. He was miserable and he walked to get some cigarettes and along the way he explained to me that the prom was the culmination of this three-year campaign on his part to get in with the cool crowd. Crowd mostly white crowd the began all the way back when he arrived at high school.

2 (1m 14s):
See this is story between sounds a freshman. I when I first think about the total

3 (1m 20s):
nerd geek, oh, right. So, of course, I see how this glamorous beautiful girls. I'm like damn. I wish I could only dream of having them right or just even like taking them out on a date. I even do anything physical with him right third you first June primary Lincoln Park

2 (1m 35s):
most gorgeous girl in school. Ask her to prom she says, yes, so we'll goddamn. You know, I changed a lot since

3 (1m 41s):
sophomore year. I got into this crowd and stuff and they just changed and changed my speech my dress and all that stuff. I'm still the same person. I've changed. I'm just this is the

2 (1m 49s):
popular crowd. I'm just popular. Yeah, so this end up going right and I know she has a history of being like incredibly Moody. She's so gorgeous take her anything, you know, just because I mean if I go with

3 (2m 2s):
her this year and she's so gorgeous

2 (2m 3s):
than all the other girls and say damn I have to go to now if she if he's good enough for her. He's definitely

3 (2m 8s):
good enough for me my kind of It was my rep a little bit

2 (2m 12s):
and I'll tell you this. I want something physical. I want either this

3 (2m 14s):
fool around with her meaning kiss her kiss her feel her up or whatever even more, you know, go all the way or whatever but I wasn't counting on that was here to have fun and I'll be like a nice feature to it. That be a bonus. You know, I wasn't pushing anything sure enough her and her alleged best friend get into a

2 (2m 28s):
fight and here I am

3 (2m 29s):
alone with my rum and coke.

2 (2m 39s):
The prom we don't make it's going to the Army in this country, but I'll

3 (2m 43s):
make them go to college. We don't make them get married. So they still in school when they're 18. They collide with the impenetrable fact, that is the prom if they go to school with Junior Prom. They get it twice. And then that tickets and go not go as some kind of experience use it try to climb to a new group of friends used to try to get the girl. Just try to get through it. The stakes are weirdly high for a one-night thing. Good luck. As we get older, I think a lot of people tend to roll their eyes at the idea of prom because years later there's something about it that just feels embarrassing especially if you went close and the corsage corny music just the whole thing.

3 (3m 33s):
I'll speak for myself. It's embarrassing to think how thrilled I was to go out that night at the whole thing seemed so full of possibility. And so today as we head into a May without proms we can still experience it here. We bring you four stories of the prom. That one of our program today tornado prom what happens when a natural disaster strikes the same night as the unnatural disaster. That is the prom back to Save the Last Dance For Me Again Francine Pascal. Then I'm going to author of seven hundred books for teenagers including the Sweet Valley High books explains why teen stories always have to end at the prom that 3 and we do things are certain in life death and tuxes in this act.

3 (4m 19s):
You can experience over the radio. A complete typical prom and oh just look at the time that only gives you half an hour to find date back for only one thing missing is the epicenter of prom genius is the place with a prom future is being born the town of Racine Wisconsin. They have added one ingredient to the prom that takes it to a whole new level of intensity. One magic ingredient find out what it is. Stay with us for

2 (4m 44s):
WBEZ Chicago. It's This American Life, I'm Ira Glass. A

3 (4m 58s):
twin tornado prom. So in Hoisington Kansas years ago a tornado hit on Prom Night Hoisington small town. It was about 3,000 people at the time. Nobody in the town was hurt Liberty prom even knew what happened, but during prom over a third of the town was destroyed one older man was dead and the seniors were With what to think of the whole thing Susan Burton tells the story on Friday nights the teenagers and Hoisington drag Main Street, or they go to a party at someone's house and the boys shoot baskets in the driveway and the girls jump on the trampoline. Sometimes the parties are out in the country at Palms.

3 (5m 39s):
It soaks in the 6A. Tell me since its Kansas. There's weird weather high winds that makes up our flicker on and off they get a lot of tornado warning, but they never thought one would actually touch Down here boys. Anton just seemed too boring to be visited by a natural disaster. It's just like nothing happens in always insulin. Like everyone says I was like, oh, there ain't nothing doing his nothing happens here. So just like why would a tornado come here? Big problem actually feels Grand and Pleasanton the day of the dance the girls drive down to Great Bend and get their hair done at main attractions.

3 (6m 20s):
They all wear long gowns, they shop for them at a store in Wichita. That won't sell the dress you buy to anyone else in your town. The dresses are elaborate and like all prompt binary extremely difficult to explain. It's like black and it's fitted but when you look at it from other Actions, it's silver and royal blue purple. It was shiny. There's like two straps that go in the back and they cross is hard to explain like people would ask me what it looked like and it was so hard to explain to him because it's just so unique all very like long like ty

2 (7m 3s):
not really any of

3 (7m 4s):
them didn't have like a tight dress or like Long they were just like just one sheet. Like I

2 (7m 12s):
guess I really don't know about dresses, but there's just like one cloth. I think Franz more

3 (7m 23s):
of the female, you know, it's hard night, you know most ladies are like, you know what problem to be everything, you know, I think they wanted to come to be some night. They'll never forget.

2 (7m 39s):
Some of them got it.

3 (7m 41s):
I mean, I went through lots of prom magazines just looking at themes and stuff and we had all the holds. In class vote on which one they wanted and they came up to be lost in the moment. So it's kind of ironic. We really were

2 (7m 56s):
lost and what was happening. We didn't know what was going on. And so

3 (8m 0s):
I mean after it we're so it's

2 (8m 3s):
lost.

3 (8m 13s):
What happens when a prom meets a tornado when two events that often end in disaster Collide the day that both the prom on the tornado came to Hoisington. Everyone tells me with ominous foreshadowing started out sunny, but looked stormy by dinner.

2 (8m 29s):
It was sprinkling by the time everyone Park their trucks outside the Knights of Columbus Hall on Main Street, they ducked and ran inside to prom. It was crowded with people taking pictures. I mean like I was at a basketball game or something like cheese head of my eyes after a little bit. This is Sean. He's a

3 (8m 50s):
junior. He videotaped the prom partly so he could show his mom what she missed from here. He and his classmates tell the story

2 (8m 58s):
it took a minute before people, you know, finally started dancing stuff. We got there late so I can use it. We got like they're right at eight o'clock. So soon as we got the dance party started. So we just started dancing and we dance for like an hour or so, you know now about an hour and then the light started flicking off not like it went didn't like Flickr and like kind of went off and then it

3 (9m 28s):
come back on, you know, and people just some people like my friend Ty in is kind of scared of the dark, you know, so she's freaking out but some people just fun, you know, so Blackout thing, you know, there's just a lot of people screaming and yelling, you know, just yeah acting like fools and stuff. I was too and they got yelled at one time hand me that beer break out the keg and stuff like that and the white went back

2 (9m 59s):
on everybody. Just kind of looked around and went on your way, you know wasn't even anything big. The door kept open and we knew we could hear it was really we do always getting windy outside and someone had said that it started to rain and people would go out and look and it was like rain was just coming in horizontally. It was just blowing down the street and we didn't think anything of it was just oh, you know, we have to go out and this later didn't think it was as bad as It was there playing I'm a Survivor from Destiny's Child and that was like the next to last song before the lights blacked out who who would know, you know, I mean, he would have thought that song would be playing one of the last times that that a tornado right before it rips through our town.

2 (11m 11s):
Let's find out the second time

3 (11m 13s):
everybody just kind of stood around and everything waiting and gets you nowhere like hurry up. Turn the lights back on. Come on. This sucks for standing around at prom. You know,

2 (11m 24s):
DJ's came out and they had like a long stick and they're trying to get everyone to do like a limbo just to keep us entertained and why the lights were out because it could have any music or anything like that. So they had a line of limbo going through and that was when our principal told us that we needed to go down. There's shortly after the lights went out the door of the Knights of Columbus. Then was basically sucked open.

3 (11m 47s):
This is Mike Norton the principle of Hoisington high

2 (11m 49s):
school at that point. I walked over and you could feel the pain glass kind of vibrating a little bit and it subsided a little bit I stepped outside and as I stepped outside an ambulance was coming down the main street with the PA saying get in the basement. Listen, we can't get out to get more beer and drugs and the rain is coming down hard everybody.

2 (12m 34s):
I was just tape and she just came up and just started saying that stuff and but I talked to her afterwards and she didn't she had no idea, you know, there's for now she feels bad for even saying that stuff. So it was like, whoa, she was right on the money. Basement right here. Oh my God. I mean when I was looking in the camera was like pitch black with like two flashlights in the distance. She like barely say it was dark and we're having trouble seeing everybody.

2 (13m 18s):
Mr. Knowlton said that we weren't allowed to go. Our principal said we weren't allowed to go upstairs until the cops came and told us that everything was okay and I asked him I was like, well,

3 (13m 28s):
are we down here because of hailstorm thunderstorm tornado what's going on? He's like right now everything would be speculation.

2 (13m 53s):
We will keep you here until it's safe to Turn You Loose and then we will make a decision on whether to reschedule from I made the call that prom would be canceled two hours later. I look back on that statement. So and

3 (14m 12s):
thought well that was a silly statement that it should that didn't have to make that statement there wouldn't even be a kid there that wanted to stay at prom. It's just it just goes to show how little we knew and we were four blocks away from from the storm. And so that's when my people like would have cell phones. I started getting on those and a lot of rumors were flying through and people were saying I mean it was like, okay all of a sudden someone pops up and says Zack your house is gone or like Jacob your sister's house is gone and like and then it was like all of V streets gone. I was Ray's gone. I was just like don't jump to conclusions because you don't know. What's true. And what's a lie and what's a rumor.

3 (14m 53s):
These are rumors flying everywhere that Dairy Queen was gone and everybody that was in it was dead. And I mean that was where we're going to have breakfast at after after prom. There's people crying because no one can we can't leave we don't know where our families are at. We didn't know how to get ahold of anybody. It was I don't even know if I can explain the feeling. Feeling just like I was I was just it was just so scared. I was it was almost you couldn't really even

2 (15m 22s):
talk. All I could do was cry. I just I thought I could do.

3 (15m 43s):
All of a sudden everybody just started walking up stairs, you know, it was still dark, you know, and I was looking for my Coke as I'd taken it off and set it on the chair and me and this other guy Luke patent. We both had the same looking boutonniere. So we are looking at it and he was like that looks like Ryan and his girlfriend was like yeah, that sure is I can tell by that one. I was like Hey sure. He's like, I don't know how they can't you got in here, but you can have it. So I kept it and I was looking for it and I couldn't find I couldn't find it and then I heard somebody yell my name and I thought that's my brother know. What would he be doing up here, you know and then he's like will ya go talk to Mom.

3 (16m 26s):
So I figured oh, she's overreacting. She wants to talk to me. Make sure I'm okay and I could kind of see her, you know, there's a little bit of light coming from the Away where you can make out somebody's figure and I can kind of toes my mom. So I walked up to her. She started crying and my sister was sitting there crying. I just kind of was like, oh no the last time I heard her shown at worried and scared was when my dad died. That was the last I heard my mom sound that bad.

3 (17m 14s):
Tenants out there and I didn't believe it at first because I was like tornado. You know what tornado? There's no tornado. We didn't know about any tornado and it's like there was because I didn't see it. You know, I was right here. You know, how could there be a tornado without us knowing?

2 (17m 43s):
Will and his mom went outside everyone from prom was standing on the sidewalk Main Street looked fine. None of the building seemed to have been touched the air felt nice and cool. At first we thought the cars were

3 (17m 55s):
pockmarked like from Hale, but then he realized the storm had just covered them with little white

2 (18m 0s):
flowers. No unlike actually came up and said, oh it was a tornado. It was it was like there's someone saying like him come here you come here you come here. It was weird because you were like kind of listening for your name. If it's coming up. It was like don't just like that one row is straight like six and seven. I mean that's what like all the kids that were naming off that lived on that street.

3 (18m 24s):
As I lay in a minute, you know a little head up there.

2 (18m 43s):
There was like so many fire trucks with so many cops and ambulances. I mean they were just going to that nor just kept on going north didn't turn and nothing there just went North and I kind of like lit up the whole town when they went there and then you look on the other side accounts like totally dark.

3 (18m 60s):
As weird because it was like pitch black basically down there. It's kind of like if you drove North you're going to fall like until black hole or something.

2 (19m 18s):
We drove around for a while and I couldn't believe what I saw. like houses that I used to know, you know, like like the one house had like a big chunk ripped out of the top of it, you know, like a T-Rex walked

3 (19m 34s):
up and just took a bite out of the top of the roof and stuff it was

2 (19m 40s):
It's pretty amazing.

3 (19m 42s):
My cousin had a separate car from my aunt. So he took me as close as he could get me to my house. And then I just got out and I ran to my house. I was jumping over power lines and tree limbs and everything in my prom dress in flip-flops, but I got there. This is Elena. She lived on 6th Street right where the tornado hit. My mom said. She cooked that supper that night. She had the crystal pitcher like Ice-T Nason on our table. It was still fine after the tornado is still sitting like right there on the exact. For on the table and been touched on the roof was completely off of this kitchen you can stand in our kitchen and look up and you'll be looking up at the sky that night kids walked all over Hoisington with flashlights all the places.

3 (20m 22s):
They could think to go the Dairy Queen the bowling alley the grocery store the football field we're gone. It wasn't just that something had finally happened in Hoisington poison had become an entirely different town.

2 (20m 48s):
We're in right now is a ground zero. My house is in ground zero. I arrived in Hawaii isn't in about two weeks after the

3 (20m 54s):
tornado and Elena took me on a tour. Everything is normal on this side. There's you can't even tell anything ever happened whole sections of the town was still perfect. There were people on porches and shiny party balloons tied to mailboxes. Then we crossed over a lot of the West Side had already been bulldozed now. It was just dirt and basements and house Parts. Someone's front steps.

2 (21m 17s):
Kitchen cut away like a room in a

3 (21m 18s):
dollhouse. And of course, this is Kansas. The main street in town is a red brick road. Lots of people had spray painted their cars and houses and boarded up windows with references to The Wizard of Oz everybody like right stuff about Dorothy and Toto on their houses like our house. We had all the windows boarded shut and we had all kinds of things on there. We had like we're coming for you Toto and like dear Dorothy. I miss you. You if somebody finds me please pack me and send me to Oklahoma love Toto to the kids in Hoisington. It started to seem like the tornado made choices.

3 (21m 59s):
Why would it knock down a house? But not even break the glass on a framed photograph of Bridesmaids and purple dresses all kinds of weird stuff has happened. I am when they went in Adams room. The only thing that they found left in the room was the movie Twister. I don't know. I'm some people found a prom glass and they're covered and Is from 1963 and they didn't have any kids there an old couple and they didn't have any kids that graduated that year and they have no idea where it came from but they found in their covered some teenagers started to look for a logic and who was hit and who was spared. I'm told that the junior class got at the worst and then it's a known fact. They've been Jinx since the fourth grade Addy who lost her house and Brooke who didn't tell me that Addie is bad luck and Brooke is good luck.

3 (22m 47s):
That they joke about this all the time that even at the moment the tornado destroyed Hoisington work was winning a prize at prom will took the whole thing a lot harder. She's like, you know that we just can't get a break that we just can't get lucky Will's dad died several years ago had a heart attack on his birthday and unless fall the house will have lived in since he was little got too expensive for his mother and the family had to move out the house was on the east side and the tornado didn't touch it.

2 (23m 17s):
Even

3 (23m 17s):
still when I drive by there, I look at the house and wonder what it would have been like if the tornado hit we still lived at that house, you know, and I want you know, I wonder if you know if I still lived there with the tornado of come that way and hit us there, you know, because you know, maybe it was hit because it was somebody, you know that I was going after you know, and if I did live in that other house, you know that maybe I would have you know, the tornado probably would have came out over on the east side. You know that it probably still would have came. Through and some to the house is just the way I believe I think it was meant to teach me a lesson, you know in a couple ways like one way I always thought it would be cool.

3 (24m 2s):
If we had a tornado in this town, you know that have something exciting going on and then now it's like well here have a tornado and how do you feel about it? Elena felt like she calls the storm to Friday night before the tornado me and Daddy we're driving to Claflin to hang out with some friends and I was like, you know ideas like I've never seen a tornado. It's like I really want to see one. Sometimes she's like oh and you know, they're really scary stuff. Like I've seen a couple, you know, but I've never actually been in when I was like, I know I was like one of the be crazy

2 (24m 34s):
enough it really did happen then like

3 (24m 36s):
24 hours almost exactly later, you know, the next night a tornado comes and takes out our houses. It was pretty freaky. I just like oh my gosh, I remember after the tornado when I got home and I was crying I was taking my mom and I just like I swear I made this happen in my moms. Like no I need to make it happen. But I mean that's pretty scary saying I never see my really want to see him the night before it takes out my house. I asked Sean if he thinks the storm single people out. Oh, thanks. Oh really? Because if that was true and it came straight to my house and would have found me at prom but it Nana.

2 (25m 22s):
And I have like bad luck all the time. I mean like two sisters. The first one was a little too much said, oh, I've got a problem here and she dumps her sister asked me to prom then she's like well, I don't want to go with you only got someone else

3 (25m 38s):
so I was like, I got rejected by sisters. So I was like,

2 (25m 44s):
so it should have found me and like set me up. By myself just to be like hahaha, you know and then hit my car and then hit my room. So I just hit my whole house. Just my room and my car.

3 (25m 60s):
so I'd scratch that bad luck idea with some people

2 (26m 5s):
it was just a twist of fate that that happened that was definitely the prom of all prom I mean it was

3 (26m 21s):
a horrible horrible experience to go through but it was definitely a problem with all proms I mean it's like something that everybody's going to remember like some people they look on Prom look back on Prom and it's just a prom night you know everybody knows what prom happened you know they know what's going to happen to prom they know what promise you know but now we can say what happened on prom night and it's a really big event now you know I guess it's one that you'll never forget. Really. I mean figure prom night and I think tornado I mean everybody's gonna remember it for that. Usually the story of prom is one of disappointment. You're in the bathroom crying during the slow dance or you throw up at the hotel room party or you go home feeling silly for having been so excited about something so meaningless.

3 (27m 3s):
The teenagers in Hoisington got the kind of prom story. Everybody wants they got a legendary prom the night that actually did change their lives. I mean, it's like I went to prom my sophomore and Junior years and it was a dance. It was a problem. It was nice and it was fun to get all dressed up, but it was like a prom that taught a lesson, you know, it wasn't just became our cars and clothes and weren't so important and family and friends and It's hot. It's a big lesson about Humanity. I think to everybody there. Everybody had a new perspective of Life walking out of that prom I can wear the like a whole different world.

3 (27m 45s):
Just having fun when actually outside is like totally opposite

2 (27m 49s):
people are in their basements stuffs falling down houses are gone.

3 (27m 53s):
No people are actually losing stuff and wearing Palms fail

2 (27m 57s):
dancing when the tornado had snapped her hats were still just,

3 (28m 1s):
you know, just free of everything just like so Having a good time. It's like totally different when you walk outside like you step out of the safe Zone you go into another world or reality hits. From doesn't usually chaperone you into the world so quickly suddenly a lot of kids in Hoisington have to act like grown-ups Will's going to college in the fall, but he sometimes thinks it would be better to get a job on an oil rig give the paychecks to his mother. A senior named Zach actually pulled his parents out of the rubble of their own home on prom night, but everyone's looking forward to rebuilding and they're all getting used to the idea that Anything Can Happen even in Hoisington.

2 (29m 1s):
Susan Burton is one of the producers

3 (29m 3s):
of our show we first

2 (29m 4s):
broadcast this story back in 2001 and just a few months after prom and a few

3 (29m 8s):
weeks after our story ran will the teenager whose father died and his house was destroyed who talked about how his family couldn't get a break and how doomed he felt he died in a car accident. I know that's a grim ending to that story, but that's what happened.

2 (29m 34s):
Sometimes things go wrong, even at the senior prom one stormy night in this little town everything got turned

3 (29m 44s):
upside down letting me set the scene.

2 (29m 48s):
I was dancing with the Broncos. Just when Shoulda kissed her. She had carried out by a big old twist tornado on the Dance Floor donate. On the Dance Floor coming

3 (30m 4s):
up. They've been juniors in high school since the year 1982. So when they say and this is a direct quote we have been dreaming about prom night for years. They mean it that's in a minute from Chicago public radio when our program continues Support for This American Life comes from Squarespace create a website to Showcase your work publish new content or announce your upcoming events or performances and make it stand out with designer crafted templates that are e-commerce ready and all mobile-friendly right out of the box start your free trial and receive a special offer on your first purchase at squarespace.com / American and use promo code American a dream is just a great idea.

3 (30m 48s):
That doesn't have a website yet. Make it a reality with Squarespace. This American Life from Ira Glass each we're going to program, of course, we choose some theme bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme today's program for prom season and a country with schools been called off and proms been canceled. We have stories about the greatness and terribleness that is prom we've arrived at two of our program at to Save the Last Dance For Me Again. So Pretty in Pink and Carrie and Buffy and High School Musical 3 and the polian And to many other movies and TV shows to name, they all eventually end up at the prom.

3 (31m 30s):
But why why the prom why is it so omnipresent? Well for answers, we turn to Francine Pascal who's written or invented the plot lines for 700 books in The Sweet Valley High series, which of course is the adventures of Elizabeth and Jessica Wakefield Twins and seemingly permanent High School juniors. She spoke to us from her home in France.

1 (31m 51s):
Well, I have to tell you That the prom is probably the quintessential Glory of high school. It's the moment that comes closest to the Romantic vision of light. I think it's it. It's repeated again only one other time and that would be marriage. I mean, it's that important in the high school life in the teenager life in that pre life before

3 (32m 19s):
adult. That's interesting. So so as in the traditional drama You where you'd want the characters to end up in marriage if you're writing about teenagers. All you've got is the prom.

1 (32m 29s):
Yep. That's about it. That's right and out of the 700 book, so I probably prom is mentioned in at least 500 of them. But I would say there's probably a major goal in almost 30 35,

3 (32m 47s):
you mean 35 or so books actually take place at the prom There's an actual Prime in

1 (32m 53s):
them. Yeah, there is a problem as the plot goal or a very important part of the plot. I can give you just ideas of it. There's I think in the second book I did a plot about who is going to be the king and queen of the prom and there was you know, rigging the election and it sent I just to give you an idea plots on getting a date for the prom somebody who has no Date for the prom the wrong date for the prom the wrong date the turns out right to the prom and I know there was a plot about this poor girl her brother had to take her.

1 (33m 33s):
I mean that's permanent trauma and then there's the other thing with there's no money for the prom dress. Then there's the one about you think he's going to ask you but yes someone else and every I mean when you're when you're involved it is many plots as I am, you know, they begin To fall into some categories and there's things like the BET plot though. What pod the BET ways you're like a wager a bet plot or the pledge plot where just the boy asks a girl on a bet to go to the prom or the pledges. He has to ask the least popular girl in the in the class to go to the prom and then she finds out and then he really wants to go with her, but it's too late cause you Reason that takes a whole book to settle down.

3 (34m 27s):
It seems like one of the common prom plots is at the prom forces a choice between potential dates and often. It'll be the good-looking unattainable boy or girl is one possibility and the smart funny best friend is the other possibility

1 (34m 42s):
exactly exactly abuse that sort of thing. There's also a perfect because though these people are not going to be living for the rest of their lives are not legally married or anything. But they do have to make that first important choice of the person they are going to spend that momentous evening with c and it's almost a mini marriage kind of

3 (35m 7s):
choice. In book number 142 in the Sweet Valley series of straight called the big night. You have not one not two not three but four characters who end up switching their dates at the prom then one girl tries to kill her date.

1 (35m 24s):
Oh, that's that's a that must have been a

3 (35m 29s):
thriller Courtney tries to push Todd off of the off of a boat railing into the into the water and Elizabeth is in a speedboat.

1 (35m 39s):
Yeah, yes, right. Yes. Well, you know that's just a variation on a theme. That's all you have to do something slightly different with them out when you're on a hundred and forty

3 (35m 56s):
listening to you talk about this. It seems like what the prom does and what it gives you as a writer is it gives you a natural Arena where there can be a conflict over love and an outer arm? And without the prom you'd have to invent some situation which would feel like it has weighed. Where's the prom just has the

1 (36m 14s):
weighed exactly because the problem is is it natural? It comes filled with all kinds of emotion just the mention of the prom. You don't have to create something and build it up and give it terrible importance. You don't have to do any of those things.

3 (36m 36s):
Did you go to prom yourself? I

1 (36m 39s):
never went to my own prom. I was not interested strangely enough. I didn't like high school very much at all. It's funny that I ended up writing so much about it. And what did you think of prom? I really was not interested. I felt that I was too sophisticated and mature for that sort of stuff and I just didn't I never I never really participated Beyond writing speeches for the political candidates and being on the newspaper. That's what I liked. But beyond that I just didn't have an interest

3 (37m 19s):
in it. You never cared to go to the prom and so you've now somehow Fate has put you in a situation where you've had to revisit it over.

1 (37m 24s):
85 times. Yes. It's my punishment. But I it's it's different because I don't have to show up there

3 (37m 35s):
the Charming Francine Pascal creator of Sweet Valley

2 (37m 38s):
High. Factory death and taxes.

3 (38m 2s):
So let's go to the prom huh you and me back in 1994. When I was a reporter for NPR's All Things Considered actually covered the senior prom at Taft High School in Chicago, and we thought we would play the story now because in contrast to the problems in Francine Pascal's books this captures on tape, but the problem usually is Here is this very old recording all year long the teacher see students who slouch and gossip students who wear clothing that teachers don't understand students who need prodding and discipline and constant surveillance. And then on Prom Night the students

2 (38m 35s):
reappear transformed as in a dream and the teachers wander around remarking to each other. Can you believe how well behaved they are how grown-up they seem math teacher. Jerry pad is help plan the prompt for years. These are the seniors that have made it Daenerys date George borek. Hadn't bothered with the talks. He wore a black shirt skinny black tie black pants. No jacket. They're having fun except for One Small Hitch kids dance, maybe if they Some metal.

2 (39m 21s):
He said he could slam dance 95. This couple was having a different kind of prom. We're going to Niagara Falls tomorrow morning, but tonight we're just gonna party. My girlfriend isn't telling me yet what we're gonna go to the whole town special place and I got him a special hotel room somewhere and it's just surprised. What do your parents say about this? Well, my mom gave me that you know, mother-daughter sex talk but it's a little too late for that kind of in one ear out the other but she was so Very worried and she didn't want me to do this and thought it was wasting money. But you know your mother gave you a mother-daughter sex talk.

2 (40m 2s):
Yes. Yeah staying at something maybe he might cause I'm leaving for college. Okay, and since we've been together this long it's going to be very dramatic between us to delete each other. So she's like all he's going to bust some moves on he's going to try to do sex acts to try to keep you here, but it's too late for that on the Dance Floor. There was a certain amount of copy. It feels and kissing but the sexual tension at the prom hit a kind of surreal Zenith when

3 (40m 29s):
the DJ told the boys to bring chairs down to the dance floor girls were seated in the chairs and the Garter ceremony

2 (40m 35s):
began people killed over a hundred teenage girls presented bare legs with garters only have to put your hands behind your back meaning grab the Garter with your teeth. all right, you want to get back with you tt9 is the kind of activity that separates that just friends prom dates from the real dates and dozens of just friends stood around the edges of the hall in

3 (41m 5s):
various states of

2 (41m 6s):
discomfort 3C a hundred kneeling teenage boys, bring their faces up against the slightly sweaty thighs of their days grip multicolored garters with their And drag them off the leg. It's a shocking and amazing sight. But when I asked teachers about it later, they all say where have you been I've done this for years. I'm coming apparently things get even more explicit. Okay, let's go Duty as a little have a slow dance as evening wore on Georgian

3 (41m 45s):
Carla a couple of the didn't dance did go out for a couple of slow numbers.

2 (41m 52s):
Later, when it was time to leave they picked up their prom

3 (41m 55s):
favors and took some balloons from the

2 (41m 56s):
centerpieces and join another couple Mark and Charlotte and marks father's Ford Tempo. They search for a radio station DK2 heavy Rock buncha. Hippie Rock. I like it. Nice. All right. No, ma'am. I spilled it on hey and man everybody pitched in $2 for gas Carlo wave to people in other cars and inhaled the helium from her prom balloons bunny pudgy bunny.

2 (42m 39s):
They argued about directions discussed who Winona Ryder is going out

3 (42m 42s):
with these days and finally after nearly an hour. We ended up at a party a pretty Lively. Party, but mostly we stood around outside.

2 (42m 50s):
Where's my way? Lip Matt, where's my liquor Charlotte repeated this about oh 20 times. Nobody else interested in getting drunk, but

3 (43m 0s):
finally someone organized a liquor run.

2 (43m 3s):
Are they going to sell to you the cells me if they don't sell to me though. Someone else. What do you want? Kiwi lime and on baby Mad Dog what kind keeping him alive weight. He needs something. Give me a five pick. I'll give it a 10 one thing you forget when you're not a teenager is how much time teenagers spend

3 (43m 20s):
just standing around waiting. Waiting to get organized waiting for everyone to show

2 (43m 25s):
up waiting for the person buying liquor to return percentage wise. This was the largest part of the

3 (43m 30s):
evening invariably during this time. Someone starts to get on someone else's nerves for Charlotte and George. The feeling was Mutual

2 (43m 37s):
the TV show is Yes, man. She never shuts up. You know, she just keeps on talking and talking. It's like why don't you shut off and it's like the tone of voice shoes is to she like the whiny tone of voice, you know, so I can already hear it. I don't put up with her when she first started going to test man and I hated it then and I hate it now. It's like something that's bringing me down, you know.

3 (44m 5s):
Going

2 (44m 6s):
man good around 1:30 a decision was made to go to the beach or to Chicago's downtown Lake Michigan beaches and after much debate and four attempts to get a dozen people into

3 (44m 17s):
cars. We finally drove to Belmont Harbor and walked out to the big rocks on the water. Everyone stared at the lake the city lights made the clouds glow orange and the distance you could see some fog and the lights of the water pumping rigs

2 (44m 30s):
those pumping stations man. How do you like to work out there? You get the work out there for three days three days. - it's out there. It's bitumen and they feed you. You work and you get paid and you just hang around there? And it's like real cool seek. Yeah that you get paid through the ask for and he's so scary to get on board. I like you know, it's so dark. Well some really smash. I really feel uneasy around Open Water. Did you say you feel uneasy but what water Open Water Lake in space? It's free man said the best way it's the best you can go Martha and launches into a fairly dire speech.

2 (45m 15s):
Which coming from him is surprising. He's college-bound a good student on the football team you Easygoing and self-confident, there's me and there's no Credence God to place me. There's always some copper somebody asking what you're doing. There's there. There's always somebody who owns the place there was going to come to you and ask, you know, especially under age. Then the guy really get on your back giving you lectures bugs, which you're not supposed to do what you're supposed to wear in Charlotte go off of cigarettes. Karla takes his shoes off. We talked about this and that and then we look behind us and see the blue lights through the trees. Now evening like this could be complete without a run-in with the police there.

2 (45m 55s):
Perhaps a hundred yards away in the parking lot in their squad car or a bigot note already getting out the police hover there a few minutes put a ticket on one kids car and drive off. No big deal. Next up naturally is an all-night restaurant by the time we hold the big plastic Denny's menus

3 (46m 12s):
in our hands. It's 4:00 in the

2 (46m 14s):
morning. You ready to order? I want salad we can here for you, you know. Wait against land. They gossip. They flooded pleasantly from topic to topic fate had handed them a prom and they knew they were supposed to stay out all night and they kept wandering from place to place waiting for something to happen. Nothing much did but nothing bad did either it's starting to get light outside going soon. I was sleep all day all day back in the car.

3 (46m 43s):
George said that the best moment of the proms when he got to slow dance with Carla Mark said it was when you missed getting a ticket for Um, those cops Charlotte said it was when she looked around at all the people at the prom and realized that she no longer had to return to Taft High School.

2 (46m 59s):
You known

3 (46m 59s):
me.

2 (47m 5s):
I'll be your friend somebody

3 (47m 17s):
that for only one thing missing. So every year for nearly 70 years on the third weekend in May all the high schools in Racine Wisconsin hold the proms on that same night after all the problems that ended the get some all seven schools drive a parade. Out through town in convertibles and limos and antique cars ice cream trucks and semis to the post-prom party which in Racine is actually bigger than the actual prom itself caused by the local Rotary Club. It goes from 8:30 at night until three the next morning people set up a lawn chairs to watch this procession of cars this parade. It is a huge huge deal and then it got even bigger.

3 (47m 59s):
Wendy door tells what happened the good people of Racine loved their prom and they were always looking for ways to make it better. And so they added to it a force even more powerful than the problem itself. They added live television

2 (48m 16s):
coverage last year. 60,000 Eyes Were Watching a rite of passage seven schools one great location one night.

3 (48m 32s):
It's prom

2 (48m 34s):
prom live Saturday, May 19th, 9:30 p.m.

3 (48m 39s):
What will you be wearing? It's um, that's a really really incredible atmosphere in there with an $8,000 laser show five to ten thousand dollars worth of balloons and flowers. Craig Haskins has been running the rotary clubs post-prom for the past couple of years. He was voted into the job by his fellow Rotarians simply because he is 27 years old and by far the youngest rotarian and Racine and he looks young on prom night. He has to wear a special badge. So the high school kids know not to ask him to dance their screening people that red carpet television Crews to talented, you know, like the host and Hostess that interview you when you walk through the door and just like Joan Crawford.

3 (49m 25s):
That's her name, right? Joan Rivers to Joan Rivers just like Joan Rivers when you walk through. What are you

2 (49m 31s):
wearing? You know, that's a beautiful talks or that's a nice dress good evening everyone and welcome to Time Warner Cable's coverage of the 2001 rotary post-prom parade lies from Festival Hall on Racine's Lakefront. My name is Deb so versus when I was walking down the red carpet, I felt like I was you feel like a celebrity Zach fish pain was a senior at Horlick High this year and there's fans. Of all ages, you know, there's bleachers packed bleachers hundreds of people around the Rival area and people screaming your name taking pictures holding their hands out every feels like the paparazzi paparazzi is like following me around with television cameras in your face.

2 (50m 16s):
What did you do before you got here? The whole school didn't okay, so you all ate together and then came down here. There's people on the left of the carpet interviewing and watching all these limousines and friends coming in everyone feels like a celebrity and everyone sees everyone else has a celebrity. Everybody is everybody's best friend at post from You walk in and you see the strobe lights flashing and the celebrity feeling is even multiplied when you get there and that feeling doesn't go away

3 (51m 3s):
until why do I still have it three weeks later and I'm still feeling like a celebrity watching it all again on television. So the as long as you keep watching it and everyone knows how big of a deal it is. It really isn't downplayed. You know, once you kind of lose that feeling you think about problems they're talking about With again and people want to hear about it people who didn't go and have been watching and have so many questions for you. Did you do this? Did you see this person? What kind of music do they play?

2 (51m 30s):
You are the center of attention when prom is the topic, so you all what you maintain That Celebrity

3 (51m 38s):
feeling. Here's what it looks like to the home viewer because this is low budget local cable programming. It's mostly just one camera shot couples enter the Festival Hall passing Two by Two in front of the camera woo-hooing and hi Mommy straight into the camera one after the

2 (51m 56s):
next and this goes on for four hours

3 (52m 2s):
in Zach's house. This footage has become a kind of video wall paper while I was there interviewing him a copy of the cable. Has played the whole time in the living room. Sometimes a family member would drop out of the conversation to stare at it for a while now and then Zach's mom Susan would call our attention to the screen

2 (52m 21s):
here. He comes look how handsome

3 (52m 27s):
we have been so excited with that. We've watched it numerous. It's great. I mean it we, you know, play it back all the time. It's right and you know, we have two copies of edits and two TVs and And every time you watch it, you see somebody different and it's so much fun. When you run into the parents and the kids in the city, you know to say in your pink dress in your matching text was just great and it's great. If you ask the local Television Studios, what's the biggest again? Craig Haskins the Oscars Super Bowl or prom they would hands down.

3 (53m 9s):
Say prom because it's the highest rated anything in town. And that's a good way to judge people's interests to what they're watching on TV problems. Everywhere are all about hype. So it's no surprise that once you have a problem. That's a TV show that the ratings would be hyped to the cable companies commercial says that 60,000 Eyes Were Watching The Prom but by that they actually mean thirty thousand viewers to eyes per viewer. And really even that number is just a guess. For sure one person who is not watching the problem with Kirsten hips key. I spoke with her at her job at Desmond's formal wear a tuxedo rental store at the Regency Mall.

3 (53m 53s):
It is also safe to say that Kirsten was the only person in the mall that night who was reading Plato's phaedrus for fun. I'm rereading it as slicing you read in school,

2 (54m 2s):
and it was really wonderful and I wanted to keep reading

3 (54m 4s):
it and also I can practice my Greek.

2 (54m 9s):
You didn't go to prom?

3 (54m 11s):
No. No, I didn't problem is a beautiful illusion. people here indulge in the in the thought that maybe they're not in the place that they are receiving is not a glamorous place and I mean, I know I'm part of it. If you're someone who hates the prom there's no better way to refuel your hatred then by working at a tuckshop.

2 (54m 49s):
Kirsten says

3 (54m 50s):
everyone at the store despises the prom the worst part being when the kids bring their sweaty suits back. Sometimes they'll come up with like stuffed into a little like grocery bag tied really tight and you had to pretty much disinfect the whole thing and pick it up very slightly the place here gotten like fungus.

2 (55m 10s):
He's our fingernails on time doing this in stocks

3 (55m 13s):
to get Susan like grass stains. Oh, yeah. Rest Pew mud. For people that say that prom is there to for people to feel special for once in our lives. I don't know about that. I mean find me one high school senior who really needs an ego boost. Its that it's the time to be cocky and prideful and I think it's kind of indulgence of that and if they say that they feel like a celebrity it doesn't surprise me at all because they you know, they do get They do get treated like celebrities even though they know their personality might be less than beautiful.

3 (56m 1s):
And I'm certainly glad I didn't take part in it. To truly enjoy the racing prom and maybe to enjoy any prom you have to be the sort of person who enjoys the hype leading up to it Zack certainly did for basically his whole life. I've been watching prom on television every Every Spring every every May and it's only natural middle schoolers Elementary School grade school high school all ages are watching this. So every year we watch it. And as a kid, I thought I was going to come in a helicopter with a with a yellow tuxedo.

3 (56m 42s):
Actually this year there was a kid in the yellow tuxedo but no helicopters. Unfortunately watching it on TV. I just I never realized how glorious this festivity really was until I actually was a part of it. I mean, it seems great you look so forward to it and it was even better when I got there because it was the

2 (57m 12s):
real thing. I was experiencing it. I

3 (57m 14s):
was the realization in the fact that I was at. I

2 (57m 17s):
knew I was actually there and no longer looking forward to it made it that much

3 (57m 21s):
better prom after all is just a dance plus the whole lot of hype racing understands this so well, and it's possible they've created the greatest prom in the world. They've helped it to the point that when I asked a bunch of junior high school girls if they were looking forward to the prom all of them looked at me as if I just asked them if they were in fact of the human species because they explained by the time they reach senior year knows how big it could get. Wendy door is day. She's managed to get her to doing podcast of the New York Times says the story first aired in 2001 the prom has grown to include Nine area high schools because of covid-19.

3 (58m 8s):
The post-prom has been rescheduled for August 8th taking into account social distancing recommendations stretcher. Thanks to over Incorporated which is an Arts collective in New York. It's from them we heard about the prom and Racine they made a film about a called world's best prom. They were so helpful to us for information about them and their films visit their website world's best prom. Dot-com bubble gum is a was a rerun produced by sterli kind of myself with Alex blumberg Wendy door and Jonathan Goldstein senior figures for the show is Julie Snyder additional production on this rerun by nor Gil Stone Nelson, Matt. Tyranny special. Thanks today to Enid Edwards Mavis dudes Paul feig Mike Mattison, Susan and Richard Rosenberg Time Warner Racine when young Kevin Patty Jake Earnest boost Reagan National Public Radio musical help today from this John Connors, Greg Hill and Matt Shoop and Jason Bittner wrote and performed the song Tornado in the dance floor for her.

3 (58m 57s):
Program Nathaniel Raymond in the implications did a song for us as well our website This American Life dot-org we can listen to over 700 episodes of our program for absolutely free during your lockdown or on your commute to your essential job. This American Life is the covid public radio stations by PRX the public radio exchange sport for This American Life comes from Life way Foods makers of America's best-selling keeper known as the champagne of dairy keeper is a cultured tart and tangy drink filled with vitamin D protein and 12 live and active. Probiotic cultures because life way Pewds loves your guts more at Lifeway Foods.com. Thanks as always to our programs co-founder.

3 (59m 37s):
Mr. Tory Mallet Tia who describes his job this

2 (59m 40s):
way you work and you get paid and you just hang around there. And it's like real cool. See ya that you get paid through the ask for an hourglass back next week with more stories this American lives.

3 (1h 0m 24s):
Next week on the podcast of This American Life when I was a kid, her family is staying in a hotel kids all in one room parents in another she heard something in the middle of the night and there was this woman just standing at the foot of our bed. And the first thing she said was you're just children. I didn't expect you to be children moments when the normal rules do not apply next week on the podcast or in your local public radio station.